Deuxième séance plénière
17 octobre 1989, à 15 h 20  Président : PUTZEYS ALVAREZ (Guatemala)  puis : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Second plenary meeting
25    ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS: DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE (suite)/  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS: STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT (continued)/  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS  (continuation)/
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare the second plenary meeting open.
(1.2) 1 first wish to announce to you that Cape Verde and El Salvador have paid  their arrears of contributions and are consequently entitled to vote during the  twenty-fifth session.  ADOPTION DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA  APROBACION DEL ORDEN DEL DIA  YTBEPXHEHWE IlOBECTKki ,!JHII  JLYI J3+ ~k;l  imü(;iE
(2) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We now have to deal with item 1.4, which refers to the adoption of the  agenda. The relevant document, which you have before you, is 25 C/l Prov. Rev. 1 now  give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, who Will inform you of the  outcome of the Board's examination of the provisional agenda at the 131st and
132nd sessions.
3.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the  provisional agenda of the present session of the General Conference was prepared  by the Executive Board in accordance with the provisions of Article V.B,  paragraph 5(a), of the Constitution which states that the Executive Board shall  prepare the agenda of the General Conference. This was done at its 131st session  on the basis of the document submitted by the Director-General, to which it made  certain modifications and additions by 131 EX/Decision 6.1.
3.2 By the same decision, the Executive Board also decided that any other  items submitted by Member States or Associate Members or by the United Nations  not later than 100 days before the opening of the session (that is, by 7 July
1989), in accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, should be included  by the Director-General in the provisional agenda, which should then be  communicated to Member States not later than 90 days before the opening of the  session. Between the end of the 10lst session and 7 July 1989 no request was  received for the inclusion of an item in the provisional agenda.
3.3 At its 132nd session, after examining requests for the inclusion of two  supplementary items proposed by the Director-General and received six weeks  before the date fixed for the opening of the present session, that is by
4 September 1989, in accordance with Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure, the  Board decided to prepare a supplementary list for these two items and  communicate it 20 Member States by circular letter CL/3191 dated
3.4 The Board also decided, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 12  and 13 of the Rules of Procedure, to establish the revised provisional agenda  with the addition of the two items, which is reproduced in document 25 C/l Prov.  Rev. Thus, the provisional agenda that the General Conference is called upon to  aaopt is submitted to it in document 25 C/l Prov. Rev., as you have said,  Mr President. Thank you, Mr President.
(4.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(4.2) Since 1 see no objections, 1 consider that the agenda, reproduced in  document 25 C/l Prov. Rev., is adopted.  ELECTION DU PRESIDENT ET DES VICE-PRESIDENTS DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE/  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE/  ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE Y LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL/  BbI6OPbI HPEDCEHATEJIR M 3AMECTHTEJIEH HPEHCEHATEJIX TEHEPAJIbHOki KOHQEPEHHHR  L>4;Al yl-i;J f+Wl y$ll AJ yLüiI  s!sAsa3milBJ*R
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now go on to item 1.5, ‘Election of the President  and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference’. We shall begin with the election of  the President of the General Conference.
(5.2) 1 give the floor to Mr Musa Bin Jaâfar Bin Hassan, Chairman of the  Nominations Committee.  (Applaudissements)
(6) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Thank you Mr President. Mr President, the Nominations Committee held its  first meeting at noon today and did me the honour of electing me as its Chairman. 1  should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks and gratitude for  this honour. The Committee discussed the Executive Board’s proposals regarding  nominations for the posts of President and Vice-presidents of the General  Conference. On the proposa1 of the Executive Board, and at the suggestion of Mr Iba  Der Thiam, the Nominations Committee decided to recommend that the General  Conference elect H.E. Mr Anwar Ibrahim, Minister of Education of Malaysia and member  of the Executive Board, President of this twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference by acclamation. Thank you Mr President.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee very much. Distinguished  delegates, 1 take it that the applause with which you have just greeted the proposa1  of the Nominations Committee implies your acceptance of the recommendation made to t  us.
(7.2) 1 consequently declare Mr Anwar Ibrahim elected by acclamation to the post  of President of the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session.
(7.3) Mr Anwar Ibrahim, before handing over to you, allow me sincerely and  cordially to congratulate you on the confidence the participants in this General  Conference session have shown in you by electing you unanimously in the Nominations  Committee and by acclamation in the General Conference. Your capacity as a person  devoted to education and your persona1 qualities, of which the Executive Board has  already had evidence during your participation in its work, are such that we cari say  that the post is in excellent hands. Before 1 leave this rostrum, permit me to also  to wish you every success in directing this session, which Will be very important  for the future of the Organization. 1 give the floor to the Director-General.
8.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, 1 would like to associate myself with the congratulations  to Minister Anwar Ibrahim for his election by acclamation to this very important  task of guiding the work of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference  of Unesco and, on behalf of a11 my colleagues at a11 levels of the Secretariat,
1 congratulate him and 1 place a11 the Secretariat services at his disposal.
8.2 May 1 take advantage of this opportunity, Sir, to congratulate you,  Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, for the wonderful job that you have done for this  Organization. On behalf of Unesco, 1 am very glad to present you, Sir, with the  gold medal of Unesco in recognition of your wisdom that we a11 admire, in  recognition of a11 the services that you have rendered this Organization. Thank  you very much.  (Le Directeur général remet la médaille d'or de l'Organisation à  M. Putzeys Alvarez)
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for this magnificent medal, which  is a generous and much appreciated token of esteem that does me great honour. 1  shall always keep a very special place for it since it Will be bound up with  remembrance of the work we have a11 accomplished at the last session of the General  Conference and in the past two years. My thanks to a11 and my very best wishes for  the success of this session.  (M. Putzeys alvarez quitte la tribune pour occuper son siège  de chef de la délégation du Guatemala. M. Anwar Ibrahim, membre  de la délégation de Malaisie, prend le fauteuil présidentiel.)
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, Ministers, my colleague Mr Vargas, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General, Mr Putzeys Alvarez, ladies  and gentlemen, 1 ask for your indulgence to permit me to thank members of the  Executive Board for endorsing my candidature and my colleagues in the Asia and  the Pacifie Group for their support. Indeed, 1 am deeply grateful to a11 of you  for having given me and my country Malaysia this great honour, which 1, in a11  humility, accept, in full realization of the enormity of the responsibility that  you have entrusted to me. 1 am sure you a11 share my appreciation for the work  of Mr Putzeys Alvarez, who has steered Unesco superbly during the past two years  of his presidency.
10.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, when the Unesco Constitution was  adopted at the closing meeting of the 1945 General Conference in London, Ellen  Wilkinson, the then President of the Conference, read the famous opening  declaration of the Constitution (drafted by Archibald MacLeish): '... since wars  begin in the minas of men, it is in the minas of men that the defences of peace  must be constructed . ..'. This spirit lingers on as amplified in the Seville  Statement and in the recommendations made by the International Congress on Peace  in the Minas of Men recently held in Côte d'ivoire.
10.3 We may also find some salace in recent triumphs of peace leading to the  termination of hostilities, a definite reduction in regional conflicts and even  limited arms control. None the less, peace is but another manifestation of  freedom. In our search for peace, therefore, freedom must assume the role of a  universal form. The great French philosopher Rousseau once said that man is  born free, yet he is everywhere in chains. In the contemporary world these  chains are the shackles of illiteracy, social injustice, economic disparity and  political hegemony. Freedom from these bonds is the only road to peace!
10.4 This is a time of decision, because in several ways we must realize  that the vision of past generations, however wise and well intentioned, needs to  be further advanced. Our vision must be of a habitable and sustainable future  not just for our planet - the earth that we must nurture and protect, the earth  that we must cure of the ills we ourselves have inflicted upon it. This vision,  forged in cataclysm, tempered by self-revealing horror at the suffering Of  mankind, should not manifest itself just in the form of institutions, but should  present itself as a concrete agenda of work, of practical tasks underlying the  role, the direction and the achievements of institutions. We need to look  afresh at the Constitution, to analyse its terms in the full light of experience  and contemporary circumstances. With this insight we must refine and distil  what was best in that vision, to amend its idealism and to incorporate new  thoughts.
10.5 Let us begin afresh by acknowledging an important truth: not a11 growth  is good growth. The cancer ce11 grows and spreads the disease, causing  agonizing death. We cari grow learned beyond our ability to administer our  knowledge ethically, causing the end of wisdom. We cari grow SO rich in material  means that we distort our sense of what is valuable. We cari accumulate riches  and then fail to observe that nothing priceless, or inherently valuable, is left  to us either within or beyond our hoard of treasures. Let us recall the words of  T.S. Eliot: 'Where is the Life we have lost in living?' 'Where is the wisdom we  have lost in knowledge?' 'Where is the knowledge we have lest in information?'.  We live in a time when the world is awash with information that daily increases,  updates, indexes and downloads itself. We, as an organization chargea with  communication and mutual understanding, should above a11 set ourselves the task  of facilitating a reintegration of information with knowledge and knowledge with  wisdom if we are to avoid Eliot's prophecy that we bring ourselves 'farther from  God and nearer to the Dust'.
10.6 For the history of a11 humanity has been littered, even tormented, with  great ideals that failed in implementation. The rush to the right rhetorical  framework has cloudea the analysis of what is tolerable and what is intolerable  in effecting the transition. The time has corne when we must have the humility  to lay hold upon and make sense of our ignorance amidst the ever proliferating  wealth of our information and knowledge. If peace was the first watchword of  the Constitution of Unesco, then 1 am struck by the fact that ignorance was the  second. Our Constitution places emphasis on ignorance of each other's ways and  lives. We have not abolished that ignorance, nor have we created or constructed  a firm foundation for its antithesis, mutual respect for the plurality of  mankind in its many cultures, as systems of thought, as bodies of knowledge, and  as views of being within this One World - our world. HOW dia we construct a  science and technology that systematically degrades the environment? How did we  corne to a view of scientific and technological progress that offers us the  estimable potential of computerization, but also has the attendant capacity to
29    disemploy or underemploy the creative and intellectual capacity of the majority  of our people? We desperately need our ignorance to make sense of where  progress has brought us, to determine where we ought and how we wish to progress.
10.7 No organization, ladies and gentlemen, is better placed to effect this  change in human consciousness than this body - Unesco. Unesco presides over  those fields of human endeavour where we usually choose to bask in our glorious  claims to knowledge. Therefore it is we gathered here and committed to this  Organization, who must now have the humility and courage to highlight the true  dimensions and radical implications of human ignorance. 1 am indebted for this  insight to the philosopher of science J.R. Ravetz, who argues that grasping this  interconnection, this indissoluble mixture, is the only way we cari make sense  and progress within science itself.
10.8 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, no people, no system, no ideology,  no world view is without values, ethical precepts or, in old-fashioned  terminology, a moral code. We live in one world, a world of global  interconnectedness, but we do not live a11 in the same way nor with the same  quality and kind of connection to this one world. In making policy and  planning, in the making of decisions and their implementation, we often ignore  and are even ignorant of the very impact the diversity of mankind has on our  expectations. We seem obsessed with uniformity. The space we have made for  plurality appears as a window-dressing of cultural entertainment, as 'high art'  for museums and exhibitions. This has its place, but it is too narrow a view to  be of meaning in sustaining a peaceful, mutually interdependent future.
10.9 It is unnecessary, perhaps, to mention a11 this here at Unesco. Our  Organization has become embattled for seeking to alter this situation through  its own vision of a new world information order and now a Medium-Term Plan. The  time has corne not to abandon the objective, but to tackle the question of  whether the groundwork has been properly laid for mutual comprehension of the  objective that was set. It is time to contemplate the hardest question of all:  whether any vision of a new world order has been adequately equipped with the  proper perspective and appropriate rigour of analysis and dialogue on salient  principles. For without that rigour we cannot make the need for a new order  comprehensible, nor cari we make it relevant to the needs of a11 peoples. The  consequence is that we entangle the threads of seeming rejection, presumed  alienation, with those of deep-rooted vested interests and structures of power.  Undoubtedly, participatory intellectual growth implies the free flow of  information. It necessitates thought, choice and power. Unesco has the ethical  responsibility to ensure that the elements vital for the flowering of human  intellect are not dictated, but are disbursed across the global community.
10.10 It is time to explore a new way of attaining universal aspirations.  But this is no easy remedy. It means a departure from the current emphasis on  form to a concentration on achieving actual benefits, through such means and  forma1 organizations as are most suitable according to our own values, our own  circumstances. Quite simply, it has not been part of the march of modern  progress to contemplate, investigate or analyse such options.
10.11 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, history means that some peoples and  nations have enjoyed particular and special benefits. We must a11 beware of  failing to make the distinction between cultural pride and cultural chauvinism.  Equally, we must a11 be able to distinguish between the right to continue to be  ourselves, wherever we are and in whatever we do, and the ease with which this  becomes cultural imperialism that denies the same freedom to others.
10.12 Plurality means sharing responsibilities and obligations through shared  access to the exercise of power, and participation in choices and  decision-making over the use of real resources. It was not a comfortable choice;  it remains a contentious choice and one that is not without ongoing problems.  But it was an honourable and essential part of genuine universalism within a  plural world. There is no rhetoric of great visions that does not entai1 and  devolve into hard decisions, difficult choices. That is why the service of great  visions needs humility, the humility to make the unwelcome change. There is no  people and no nation that cari or Will be able to escape this truth, and it is  this universal realization which should unite us in the endeavour, and the  selection of appropriate means, to make a genuine, peaceful, equitable,  habitable, sustainable, plural future.
10.13 For the Organization, there must be, firstly, a concentration upon the  enduring crime against humanity of illiteracy. We cannot accept a world in which  information is proliferating exponentially when vast sectors of humanity are  denied access to the means to harness this information, and more importantly to  exercise choice, discrimination and control over the impact it has on their  lives. We must be an organization that not only campaigns tirelessly to draw
30    attention to this crime against humanity, but also an organization that  stimulates and facilitates whole new approaches to effective remedial action  that is appropriate to the needs and circumstances of those we seek to assist.
10.14 This task has a vital link with the second corner-stone of our action.  We cannot fit ourselves to serve this vision of a plural future unless we too go  out to encounter plurality and learn from each and every situation what it  specifically needs. We cannot exist as a bureaucracy that has wonderful ideas  and rhetoric, but is remote from the seat of the problems on which we ponder. We  have to be an organization that relishes the heat of the kitchen, enjoys getting  soi1 under its fingernails: we have to make our vision work appropriately by  translating it into the actual circumstances of different countries and their  diverse peoples. Bureaucraties, especially global bureaucraties, must learn the  lesson we have garnered from experience: any bureaucracy, consciously or  unconsciously, seeks to establish uniformity. It sets up its own dynamic and  always runs the risk of fostering the very ailment it was established to cure.
10.15 Those who work for us must articulate a truth which is increasingly  being recognized: that solutions to our own problems are out there, in the  world, as we each in our own way know it and experience it. Finding this  solution, however, requires marshalling, selecting and thinking through the  whole available legacy of human thought and ideas and tailoring them to be  appropriate to our own needs in ways that best serve to overcome our problems.  Only in this way cari we make it clear that a11 solutions to problems must corne  through learning from people how their priorities and questions challenge our  knowledge and highlight our ignorance in order to generate appropriate  attainable solutions that are relevant to the very people who experience the  problem.
10.16 Our task, ladies and gentlemen, is to promote awareness of the  distinction between information and knowledge, and to focus attention on the  distinction between the free and the balanced exchange of quality information,  that is, information that is relevant and that generates an evaluative, critical  capacity for mutual knowledge. Knowledge depends upon selecting, ordering,  refining and manipulating information SO that it cari be the key to wisdom.
10.17 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Unesco works for universality; it  is a symbol of human unity and brotherhood. Therefore, it has to maintain this  role-image and continue to promote greater visibility, with a view to  universality. It is imperative that we remind ourselves that we a11 belong to a  single community, the international community. Member States of Unesco are not  distinguished in terms of the 'cold war' dichotomy. We continue to remain  together in this Organization because we respect each other as equals; we have  developed a spirit of understanding and negotiation in a11 matters that concern  our common interests.
10.18 It is unfortunate that the universality of this Organization, its role  in member countries, its adherence to its charter, its concern for universal  developments are open to question. For some sceptics, its very survival is at  stake. We should realize that peace and freedom cannot remain hostage to the  whims of a political tribe. We must understand that disputes are resolved not by  ostracizing, but through involvement. We should recognize the indispensability  of international co-operation, multilateralism and the full appreciation of the  principle of universality.
10.19 There is yet another dimension of the universal character of Unesco.  While we uphold the principle of equality of status among Member States, we  should not ignore the fact that Unesco is equally responsible for ensuring that  it fully respects and values the role of its Member States. In other words, the  universality of Unesco calls for equality that is manifested as equal  representation of its Member States. However, given the incongruous state of the  world, 1 would be amiss to perceive equality de facto. Nevertheless, Member  States and their specific needs cari be accommodated within the broader concept  of equality.
10.20 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, a clear look at Unesco's  Constitution would indicate that it is essentially a community of nations  committed to the cause of intellectual enlightenment rather than to flexing  political muscles. At the risk of being repetitive, 1 do perceive the political  genesis of our intellectual milieu. It is intellectual growth rather than  political hegemony that must remain the hallmark of Unesco.
10.21 We are meeting at a critical juncture in the history of our  Organization and in meeting the challenge of charting its future course. It is  gratifying to note that many pertinent issues have been deliberated by the
31    Executive Board. They are to an extent contained in the Draft Medium-Term Plan
(1990-1995) that is now before you.
10.22 With your understanding we Will endeavour, with your co-operation we  Will strive, and with your wise counsel, ladies and gentlemen, together we shall  succeed! Thank you very much.
10.23 We continue with item 1.5 of the agenda and we shall now proceed to the  election of Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and of the Chairmen,  Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Commissions. 1 cal1 upon the Chairman of  the Nominations Committee to present the Committee's recommendations concerning  the election of the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and 1 now give the  floor to Mr Musa Bin Jaffar Bin Hassan.
(11.1) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President, permit me, before 1 make my statement, to congratulate you on  your election as President of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference and  to wish you success in directing its work and in your every effort to achieve the  objectives of this venerable Organization, from which we a11 expect much in the way  of service to humanity in the fields of education, science and culture.
(11.2) Mr President, the Chairman of the Executive Board informed the Nominations  Committee that the Board had proposed that the number of Vice-presidents of the  General Conference should be increased from 32 to 36 and that, pursuant to Rule 108  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the application of Rules 25.1  and 38.1, which prescribe the number of Vice-presidents for election, should be  suspended for the duration of the present session. After discussing the Executive  Board’s proposals regarding the number of Vice-Presidents to be elected, the  Committee decided to recommend that the General Conference should suspend the  application of the above-mentioned rules and increase the number of Vice-presidents  of the General Conference from 32 to 36 for its twenty-fifth session. Thank you.
12.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 submit now to the delegates for approval the Committee's proposa1 to  suspend, for the duration of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference,  the application of Rules 25.1 and 38.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference concerning the number of Vice-Presidents.
12.2 1 see no objections. 1 consider the proposa1 adonted.
12.3 1 give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(13) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  The Nominations Committee recommended that the following 36 States, drawn  from their respective Electoral Groups, should be elected Vice-Presidents of the  General Conference. Group 1: Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.  Group II: Czechoslovakia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia.  Group III: Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala and Mexico. Group IV: China,  Democratic Peoples' Republic of Korea, India, Japan, Pakistan and Republic of Korea.  Group V.A: Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Gabon, Madagascar, Mauritania,  Mozambique, Nigeria, Togo and Zambia. Group V.B: Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia and  Yemen. These then, Mr President, are the recommendations of the Nominations  Committee regarding the election of the 36 Vice-presidents of the General Conference  which 1 submit for its consideration. Thank you.
14. The PRESIDENT:
1 submit the Committee's proposals concerning the Vice-Presidents to  you for approval. 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
15. Mr VAN LOOSDRECHT (Netherlands):  Thank you, Mr Chairman. 1 did not hear very well the names of the  countries that have been proposed on behalf of Electoral Group 1 for the  Vice-Presidency of the General Conference, SO 1 would like to ask the Chairman  of the Nominations Committee to repeat the names of the countries that have been  proposed for that function. Thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:  The Chairman of the Nominations Committee Will do that with pleasure.
(17) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Thank you Mr President. 1 mentioned Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and  Switzerland from Group 1, and the Secretariat has reminded me that 1 must add the  Netherlands.
18. The PRESIDENT:  There being no objections, 1 hereby declare the heads of delegations of  the Member States just enumerated by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee  elected Vice-Presidents of the General Conference by acclamation.  CONSTITUTION DES COMITES ET COMMISSIONS/ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMITTEES AND  COMMISSIONS/CONSTITUCION DE LOS COMITES Y LAS COMISIONES/  C03aAHkIE KOMMTETOB M KOMMCCkifi  LIWI m  iW&~!fi8+U*~J@6i6
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now proceed to elect the Chairmen of the various Commissions.  There are five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission. Under  Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, each Commission  elects its Chairman. Accordingly, with your kind permission, 1 shall now suspend  the plenary meeting and cal1 in this room, one after the other, the first  meetings of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission.  There Will be only one item on the agenda of each of these meetings, namely, the  election of the Chairman. The plenary meeting is suspended.
19.2 1 hereby cal1 to order the first meeting of Commission 1 and invite the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee to present the Committee's recommendation  for the post of Chairman of Commission 1.
(20) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that  Mr Siegfried Kaempf of the German Democratic Republic should be elected Chairman of  Commission 1. Thank you.
21.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank you for submitting the name of Mr Siegfried Kaempf of the  German Democratic Republic as Chairman of Commission 1.
21.2 As there are no objections 1 declare Mr Siegfried Kaempf elected  Chairman of Commission 1. The first meeting of Commission 1 is adjourned.
21.3 I now cal1 to order the first meeting of Commission II. We are now in  Commission II and 1 hereby invite Mr Bin Hassan, Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, to submit the recommendation for the post of Chairman of  Commission II.
(2.2) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend  that MS Lourdes Quisumbing of the Philippines should be elected Chairwoman of  Commission II. Thank you.
23.1 The PRESIDENT:  The Committee has submitted for your approval a proposa1 to elect  MS Lourdes Quisumbing, Minister of Education of the Philippines, to the post of  Chairwoman of Commission II. May 1 consider this proposa1 adopted? 1 declare  MS Lourdes Quisumbing elected Chairwoman of Commission II. The first meeting of  Commission II is adjourned.
23.2 1 cal1 to order the first meeting of Commission III. 1 cal1 on the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee to present the Committee's recommendation  for the post of Chairman of Commission III.
(24) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend  that Mr Driss Bensari from Morocco should be elected Chairman of Commission III.  Thank you.
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The Nominations Committee has submitted for your approval  its proposa1 to elect Mr Driss Bensari from Morocco to the post of Chairman of  Commission III.
25.2 As there are no objections 1 now declare Mr Driss Bensari elected  Chairman of Commission III. The first meeting of Commission III is adjourned.
25.3 1 now have pleasure in calling to order the first meeting of  Commission IV. 1 cal1 upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee to present  the Committee's recommendation for the post of Chairman of Commission IV.
(26) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend  that Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna from Peru should be elected Chairman of  Commission IV. Thank you.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  The proposa1 is to elect Mr Alberto Wagner de  Commission V.
27.2 1 take it that the proposa1 is adopted and 1  de Reyna dected Chairman of Commission IV. The first  is adjourned.
2  Reyna of Peru Chairman of  declare Mr Alberto Wagner  meeting of Commission IV
27.3 1 now cal1 to order the first meeting of Commission V and 1 cal1 upon  the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(28) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Thank you Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to  recommend that Mr Bethwell Allan Ogot from Kenya should be elected Chairman of  Commission V. Thank you.
29.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 now submit for your kind approval the Committee's proposa1 to elect  Mr Bethwell Allan Ogot of Kenya Chairman of Commission V. Thank you.
29.2 1 declare Mr Bethwell Allan Ogot elected Chairman of Commission V. The  first meeting of Commission V is adjourned.
29.3 1 cal1 to order the first meeting of the Administrative Commission. The  Chairman of the Nominations Committee Will present the Committee's  recommendation for the post of Chairman of the Administrative Commission.
(30) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend  that Mr Georges-Henri Dumont from Belgium should be elected Chairman of the  Administrative Commission. Thank you Mr President.
31.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 submit for your approval the Committee's proposa1 to elect  Mr Georges-Henri Dumont of Belgium, Chairman of the Administrative Commission.
31.2 As there is no objection 1 consider this proposa1 adopted and declare  Georges-Henri Dumont elected Chairman of the Administrative Commission.
31.3 1 hereby declare the first meeting of the Administrative Commission  adjourned.
31.4 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, before we now move on to item 15.1
1 should like to thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his  excellent work. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now consider item 15.1 of the  agenda concerning the request for the admission of Palestine to Unesco.  DEMANDE D'ADMISSION DE LA PALESTINE A L'UNESCO/REQUEST FOR THE ADMISSION OF  PALESTINE TO UNESCO/SOLICITUD DE ADMISION DE PALESTINA EN LA UNESCO/  IlPOCbBAO~PWEMEIL4JlECTHHbIBIOHECKO  &++Jl q+&& Jl +lu.Lb +AI +  !ZW%+9El%Bbuh~#%%W
32. The PRESIDENT:
1 give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Vargas, who  Will present the Board's recommendation thereon. Mr Vargas, you have the floor.
33.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil), Chairman of the Executive Board:
131 EX/Decision 9.4 proposed calling on the Director-General to conduct  a study on the possibilities of increasing Unesco's activities and presence in  the occupied Arab territories. The study was motivated by the request presented  to Unesco by President Yasser Arafat seeking the admission of Palestine to  Unesco.
33.2 During the last Board session the Board adopted by consensus
132 EX/Decision 9.3 which proposed a number of measures to that effect and which
1 have the honour to submit for your consideration in document 25 C/106, and  especially paragraph 6, which contains the resolution which the Board requests  that the General Conference consider and adopt.
33.3 The consensus achieved in the Executive Board and the measures to be  taken in that region within the field of competence of Unesco constitute in my  view an initiative that Will facilitate a peaceful solution to the strife that  prevails in that region. Perhaps it is through education, science, culture and  communication that peace in the minds of the peoples living in those territories  Will ultimately be achieved.
33.4 1 hope that the General Conference Will also adopt by consensus the  resolution contained in document 25 C/l06 as recommended by the Executive  Board. Thank you very much, Mr President.
34.1 The PRESIDENT:  Mr Vargas, Chairman of the Executive Board, has made this very clear,  and 1 cal1 upon the General Conference to adopt the draft resolution contained  in document 25 C/106.
34.2 1 hereby declare the draft resolution adopted. Thank you very much.
34.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the delegate of Israel, Ambassador Yakov Aviad  has asked for the floor. Ambassador Yakov Aviad, please.
35.1 Mr AVIAD (Israel):  Mr President, Mr Chairman, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  delegates, following the opening of this General Conference and the election of  its officers 1 would like to take this opportunity to extend our warmest wishes  to the new President and to the new team which has been entrusted with the  running of our Organization.
35.2 Israel could not join the consensus which the Member States have chosen  to adopt concerning the resolution submitted under agenda item 15.1 of the  twenty-fifth session of the General Conference. But now that the resolution has  been adopted, we wish to disassociate ourselves from it in the most vigorous  terms. We are obliged to voice our protest that the resolution before us  carries the title: 'Request for the admission of Palestine to Unesco'. This  incorrect heading has been passed on to the twenty-sixth session of the General  Conference and, in fact, remains a permanent fixture of Unesco's agendas.
35.3 The choice of name for this resolution and some of its paragraphs are  the more unfortunate in that they bear no relevance to the contents of the  present resolution. It is, however, an evident reminder of what its sponsors  really have in mind now and where their future intentions are leading. Its very  title rebuts and contravenes the provisions of Unesco's Constitution and of  international law.
35.4 Israel has presented both orally and in writing its considered legal  opinion on the subject of the PLO's membership in Unesco. 1 shall, therefore,  not repeat myself on this subject, except to say that the very name of the  present resolution and similar ones in the future Will perpetuate the  politicization of Unesco, which, as you well know, has much pressing business.  Our Organization is constantly diverted from its real guidelines, but it is  within our power to put an end to it.
35.5 May 1 take this opportunity to point out that my government is almost  the sole State engaged directly and actively in the promotion of the well-being  of Palestinian Arabs. Many of those present here today know that marked  progress has been made in every field of the life of this community. Israel is  determined to continue to do her best, regardless of additional assistance to  these inhabitants from any other quarter. 1 would even go further and state  that my government welcomes any assistance that may be forthcoming from Unesco  for the Palestinian Arabs of the Territories for constructive purposes.
35.6 Israel Will also continue to co-operate fully with national and  international agencies that intend to pursue constructive and legitimate efforts  to help the Arab population under its administration. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
36. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. 1 now cal1 on the delegate of Palestine who has asked  for the floor.
(37.1) Mr YAHYA (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, it  gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by warmly congratulating the President  of this important session of the General Conference on his election. 1 am confident  that he Will guide its meetings with a wisdom and ski11 commensurate with his  outstanding qualifications and experience. 1 would also like to express my thanks  and appreciation to Mr Iba Der Thiam for his honourable, constructive and astute  stand.
(37.2) Mr President, our concern for Unesco’s welfare and future, our appreciation  of the present effort to restore universal membership and our commitment to Unesco’s  ideals and mission to humanity prompted the Provisional Government of Palestine to  defer until the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference the submission of the  State of Palestine’s application for membership of Unesco.
(37.3) This position is in line with our policy of strengthening international  co-operation through the Specialized Agencies. It also indicates that we do not wish  to limit our co-operation with Unesco solely to the defence of our own interests. As  you know, some parties sought to exploit the application of Palestine for political  purposes, seeking to obstruct and complicate the work of the General Conference and  to provoke artificial confrontations in an Organization that was established to  promote international co-operation. Accordingly, we saw it as our duty to spare the  Organization any confrontations and complications that went counter to its higher  interest. We took no heed in this matter of the fact that we had a majority on our  side.
(37.4) Mr President, Palestine, as a peace-loving State which believes in  constructive international co-operation, which affirmed its commitment to the United  Nations Charter and the principles of international law in its declaration of  independence and which represents a people with a long history, whose land is a  cross-roads of civilizations, Will not be satisfied with anything less than full  international acceptance of its membership in international organizations, in  recognition of the struggle of its people and of their culture and heritage, their  five thousand years of historical continuity and their desire for a life of human  dignity in the future.
(37.5) Mr President, we are gratified by the Executive Board’s response to our  initiative and by the unanimous decision it adopted recommending the association of  Palestine in Unesco’s activities. We value highly the positive and constructive  climate which permeated the meeting of the Executive Board when it discussed our  application. Thus the good sense of the Executive Board’s members prevailed over the  vain and irresponsible manoeuvres which were designed to serve as a screen for bad  intentions.
(37.6) Mr President, we support the resolution which this Conference has just  approved and we consider it to be a generous step in the right direction. Permit me  to thank you and, through you, a11 those who stood by us at this Conference. 1 also  wish to thank the Director-General for the constructive stands he has taken and his  friendly words towards the Palestinian people this morning.
(37.7) Mr President, despite two years of barbarie and ail-encompassing repression  and inhumane practices, which put to shame their perpetrators, abettors and  apologists alike, despite a11 the suffering and the daily killings they have  endured, the Palestinian people have not lost hope and Will never give in to  despair; in fact, we feel sure that we are fast approaching the end of the dark  tunnel. We sincerely hope that at its next session your Conference will celebrate  the raising of the flag of Palestine alongside the flags of the other Member States,  thereby drawing this venerable Organization one step closer to its goal of universal  membership. Thank you Mr President.
38. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Minister of Education of Palestine. 1 am sure the  acclamation expresses appreciation of your remarks and 1 would also like, on  behalf of a11 present, to express our appreciation of the kind contribution that  the Chairman of the Board, Mr Vargas, has made, together with the  Director-General. Thank you very much.  ADMISSION DES ILES COOK COMME MEMBRE DE L'UNESCO/ADMISSION OF THE COOK ISLANDS  AS A MEMBER OF UNESCO/ADMISION DE LAS ISLAS COOK EN CALIDAD DE MIEMBRO DE LA  UNESCO/  IIPkïEM OCTPOBOB KYKA B KA9ECTBE I-OCYAAPCTBA - WEHA IOHECKO  .+GtJIp~~J~~4J~J~  #&4~3ZZ#BX#%tXIRQfi
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now move to items 15.2 and 15.3 of the  agenda concerning the admission of the Cook Islands and the Republic of Kiribati  as members of Unesco. May 1 remind you that, in accordance with the provisions  of Article II.2 of the Constitution, 'States not Members of the United Nations  Organization, may be admitted to membership of the Organization, upon  recommendation of the Executive Board, by a two-thirds majority vote of the  General Conference'.
39.2 With regard to item 15.2 - admission of the Cook Islands -  Secretariat received an officia1 request for admission on the part of the  Islands invoking the provisions of the above-mentioned Article and of Rule  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. The application  admission is contained in document 25 C/lO9.
2  the  Cook
39.3 It should be added, ladies and gentlemen, that, should the General  Conference decide to admit the Cook Islands as a Member State, it Will then be  required to rule on another matter, namely participation by the Cook Islands in  the activities of the Asia and the Pacifie regional group, which is governed by  a different procedure. Commission 1 Will have the task of considering this  question under item 9.3 of the agenda (25 C/107). For the present, the General  Conference is called upon only to decide on the admission of the Cook Islands as  a Member State of the Organization. 1 ask the General Conference whether it  wishes to admit the Cook Islands as a Member State of Unesco.  (Applause)
39.4 Thank you. 1 declare Cook Islands admitted as a Member State of Unesco.
39.5 The Conference must be gratified to note that this is a unanimous  decision that Will enrich the Organization and enhance its universality. 1 have  pleasure in inviting the delegation of the Cook Islands to take its assigned  place, and 1 cal1 upon the head of the delegation, the Honourable Geoffrey  Henry, Prime Minister of Cook Islands, to corne to the rostrum to place his  country's flag and to address the Conference. The Honourable Geoffrey Henry,  please.
40.1 Mr HENRY (Cook Islands):  Mr President, may 1 take this opportunity to be the third from the  Conference floor to extend congratulations to you on being elected to the  presidency of this Conference. The Cook Islands certainly wishes you well as you  discharge the responsibilities of your high office.
40.2 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates and  observers, ladies and gentlemen, Kia orana.
40.3 In our language, 'kia orana' means 'may you live' and it is my sincere  hope and that of my delegation that each and every one of you enjoys the best of  fortune in the months and the years to corne.
40.4 Mr President, I appreciate your giving me this opportunity to say a few  words on what is, for us, the momentous occasion of the Cook Islands becoming  one of the newest members of this august Organization. May 1 begin by expressing  the appreciation of my government and the people of the Cook Islands to a11  Unesco Member States for their acceptance of the Cook Islands as a member. My  own special thanks go to the Director-General for extending an invitation to the  Cook Islands to become a member of the Organization, and to Mr Gough Whitlam, a  distinguished member of the Executive Board, for his advice and assistance with  respect to our application and various other matters relating to the work of  Unesco.
40.5 1 have been advised that there have been no new members admitted to  Unesco since 1983. That is most unfortunate. Unesco's mandate is such that,  perhaps more than any other organization in the United Nations family, not only  should membership be universal, but a11 members, big and small, cari make a  positive and significant contribution to the betterment of mankind. After all,  valuable ideas are not the prerogative solely of the great powers, and Unesco's  contribution to global development hinges largely on harnessing the power of  ideas in the several fundamental spheres of international activity in which it  is charged with playing a leading and catalytic role.
40.6 In its June recommendation relating to the Cook Islands application,  the Executive Board 'especially welcomed an application from a State from a  large region in which there are several States which have not yet become members  of the Organization'. Indeed, Mr President, there are some States in the South  Pacifie which have not yet made application for Unesco membership. However, the  fact that two of the new States to be admitted to membership today are from the  South Pacifie is a tangible sign of the growing recognition of the important  role that Unesco cari play in our region.
40.7 We in the Cook Islands have watched with keen interest recent  constructive developments within the Organization and we have studied the  various documents setting out the proposed work programme and Medium-Term Plan
39    for the period 1990-1995. While 1 would like to comment on the latter in more  detail at the appropriate time, my government is convinced that the future of  the Organization is bright. It was for that reason that we submitted our  application for membership and are here today. It is our sincere hope that the  next General Conference Will again see not only an increase in membership, but  also witness this Organization playing a greater role, not only in the Pacifie,  but also in the Middle East and southern Africa.
40.8 We look forward to contributing fully to Unesco activities in the  months and years ahead, and my government Will work closely with other members  to ensure the achievement of the goals of this Organization. Thank you,  Mr President.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. We feel honoured that you yourself, the Prime Minister  of Cook Islands, should share some of your thoughts with us and be present at  this session.  ADMISSION DE KIRIBATI COMME MEMBRE DE L'UNESCO/ADMISSION OF KIRIBATI AS A MEMBER  OF UNESCO/ADMISION DE KIRIBATI EN CALIDAD DE MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO/  FIPklEM KkïPkiBATki B KAYECTBE TOCYAAPCTBA WEHA IOHECKO  si-;.+ 2 + GA >L?& J4  #m!&!El%%%w*1RBi2
42.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to item 15.3 concerning the  admission of the Republic of Kiribati as a member of the Organization.
42.2 The Secretariat has received an officia1 request for admission from the  Republic of Kiribati invoking the provisions of Article II.2 of the Constitution  and of Rule 92.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. The  application for admission is contained in document 25 C/llO.
42.3 1 should like to add here again that, should the General Conference  decide to admit the Republic of Kiribati as a Member State, it would then be  required to rule on the matter of the participation by the Republic of Kiribati  in the activities of the Asia and Pacifie regional group, which is governed by a  different procedure. Commission 1 Will have to deal with this specific  question. At the present stage, the General Conference is called upon only to  decide on the admission of the Republic of Kiribati as a Member State of the  Organization.
42.4 1 now ask the General Conference whether it wishes to decide on the  admission of the Republic of Kiribati as a Member State of Unesco.  (Applause)
42.5 Thank you. 1 declare the Republic of Kiribati admitted as a Member  State of Unesco.
42.6 Before 1 invite the Minister of Education of Kiribati, Mr Ataraoti  Bwebwenibure, to corne to the rostrum, 1 would like to inform the Conference  that, in the case of the Republic of Kiribati and the Cook Islands, we have been  grateful - the Board, that is, in particular, has been extremely grateful - for  the persona1 efforts of Mr Gough Whitlam and the Australian authorities who have  done their level best to persuade and finally to bring Cook Islands and the  Republic of Kiribati to join the Organization.
42.7 1 now have pleasure in inviting Mr Ataraoti Bwebwenibure, Minister of  Education of Kiribati, to corne to the rostrum to place the flag of his country  and to address the Conference.
43. Mr ATARAOTI BWEBWENIBURE (Kiribati):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  on behalf of the government and people of Kiribati 1 would like to thank the  Unesco Member States for their unanimous approval of our application to join  Unesco and for the warm welcome which you have just given myself and Mr Iuta.  Our wish to join Unesco has been something that we have thought about for some  time. We are a very small country a great distance away from Paris. As a small  island nation we have some very special problems and very special needs. We  hope that through our membership of Unesco we would be able to solve those  problems and benefit from participation in regional and international activities
2  which cari help us in our development. We also look forward to the opportunity  to share our culture and our traditions with the other Member States. Thank  YOU, Mr President.
44. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Ataraoti Bwebwenibure and 1 wish you a11 the best.  ADMISSION D'OBSERVATEURS D'ORGANISATIONS INTERNATIONALES NON GOUVERNEMENTALES A  LA VINGT-CINQUIEME SESSION/ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL  NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS TO THE TWENTY-FIFTH SESSION/ADMISION DE  OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES NO GUBERNAMENTALES A LA 25a.  REUNION/
45. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we now move on to item 1.7 of the agenda  regarding the admission to the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of  observers from international non-governmental organizations other than those in  categories A and B. The document relating to this item is document 25 C/lO. In  accordance with Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, 1 cal1 upon the Chairman of  the Executive Board, Mr Vargas, to present the Board's recommendation on this  matter.
46.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure specifies that the General Conference,  on the recommendation of the Executive Board and by a two-thirds majority of  members present and voting, may admit as observers at specified sessions of the  Conference or of its commissions representatives of international  non-governmental and semi-governmental organizations. This Rule applies to  non-governmental organizations other than those in categories A and B which have  already been invited to send observers to the Conference by virtue of Rule 6.7  of the Rules of Procedure.
46.2 In this context, 1 wish to recall that the General Conference, in  welcoming a recommendation made by the Executive Board at its 88th session,  decided for the first time at its nineteenth session to admit as observers  representatives of international non-governmental organizations in category C.  At its 125th session, the Board approved a new procedure for dealing with  requests from international non-governmental and semi-governmental organizations  in category C as well as those not maintaining officia1 relations with Unesco  for which no procedure existed.
46.3 In accordance with this procedure a certain number of requests from  such organizations were examined by the Executive Board at its 132nd session.  The Board's recommendations thereon are contained in document 25 C/lO, as you  have mentioned, Mr President. The Board decided to recommend that the General  Conference admit as observers the representatives of the following international  non-governmental organizations other than those in categories A and B and that  it authorize their representatives to take part in the proceedings on the  occasion of the examination in the appropriate Commissions of those items on the  agenda which they have indicated. These organizations are: (a) two NGOs in  category C, namely, the World Press Freedom Committee, for items 2.1 and 4.5 of  the provisional agenda and Discussion Units 10 and 11; the Union of African  Water Suppliers, for items 2.1 and 4.5 of the provisional agenda and Discussion  Unit 5; (b) two NGOs not maintaining officia1 relations with Unesco, namely, the  Pan-African Union for Science and Technology, for items 2.1 and 4.5 of the  provisional agenda and Discussion Units 4, 5, and 6; the International Olympic  Committee (the Olympic Movement as it is called) for items 2.1, 4.1 and 4.5 of  the provisional agenda, the general policy debate and Discussion Unit 2. That is  the Board's recommendation, Mr President.
47.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board. 1 submit for your  approval the Board's recommendation contained in document 25 C/lO. Ladies and  gentlemen, if there are no objections, 1 propose that YOU adopt this  recommendation unanimously. Thank you very much.
47.2 The recommendation is adopted.
47.3 The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 16 h.55  The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m.  Se levanta la sesibn a las 16.55