Vingt-neuvième séance plénière
10 novembre 1989, à 10 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. VAN LOOSDRECHT (Pay-Bas)  Twenty-ninth plenary meeting
10 November 1989 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr VAN LOOSDRECHT (Netherlands)  Vigésima novena sesion plenaria
3aTeM: I--H BAH JIOOCJJPEXT (Hwepnawbr)
827    RECOMMANDATIONS DU BUREAU CONCERNANT L'ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX  RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE ORGANIZATION OF WORK  RECOMENDACIONES DE LA MESA ACERCA DE LA ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS  PEKOME~A~AR IIPE3MBMYMA OTHOCMTEJIbHO OPTAHI-i3A4kïU PA6OTbI CECCMM  JLY l +ü $L+ +Cl1 fi&.@  P%~!!aBRTI#~4Ff6Jm!
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare open the twenty-ninth  plenary meeting. The General Committee met this morning and agreed to submit to  the approval of the General Conference two recommendations: the first concerns  some adjustments to the calendar of the work of the final week of the session  and a11 the details concerning these adjustments Will be published in the  Journal of the General Conference next Monday. The Secretary of the General  Conference Will give you further information concerning these adjustments, which  are minor ones, at the end of the plenary this morning.
1.2 The second recommendation concerns the organization of  meeting of the General Conference which,  the closing  according to the adjusted calendar,  Will take place on Thursday, 16 November in the morning. It is suggested that  the closing meeting should proceed as follows:
1. Tribute to Professor Vargas, Chairman of the Executive Board;
2. Address by the Chairman of the Executive Board;
3. Address by the representative of the host country;
4. Address by the Director-General;
5. Address by the President of the General Conference;  Closure of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference.  I submit this recommendation to the approval of the General Conference. 1 see no  objections.
1.3 It is SO decided.  LIEU DE LA VINGT-SIXIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  PLACE OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  LUGAR DE LA 26a. REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  MECTO rIP0BE~EHW-I .QBmLJATb IUECTOfi CECCWi TEHEPAJIbHOa KOH@EPEHLJWi  +‘+&d &&IJ -LJL.d\ i~+,l Jul ;&  k4?%3i-x%a!~~&
2. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have first on our agenda this morning  item 41.1: Place of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference. The  Executive Board has deliberated on this, and 1 now give the floor to its  Chairman, Professor Vargas.
3.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Thank you, Mr President. During the first part of its present
132nd session, the Executive Board examined the question of the place of the  twenty-sixth session of General Conference. The Board was guided by the  provisions of Rules 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.  In view of the fact that, within the time-limit established by Rule 3, no Member  State had invited the General Conference to hold its twenty-sixth session on its  territory, the Executive Board, by 132 EX/Decision 6.3, took the following  decision: 'Recommends that the General Conference hold its twenty-sixth session  at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris'. That, Mr President, is the  recommendation of the Board concerning the place of the next session of the  Conference.
3.2 As to the date of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference,  the Board, in consultation with the Director-General, Will make a recommendation  concerning this. Thank you.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Vargas. The document corresponding to this item is
25 C/102, and the General Conference must now adopt  paragraph 6, which reads as follows:  a decision concerning
828    'The General Conference,
1. Havins resard to the provisions of Rules 2 and 3 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference,
2. Considerinq that on the date fixed by Rule 3, no Member State had  invited the General Conference to hold its twenty-sixth session on  its territory,
3. Decides to hold its twenty-sixth session at the Headquarters of the  Organization in Paris'.  Now 1 submit the draft resolution for the approval of the General Conference.
4.2 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  QOKJIM KOMMCCMII II: PE30JIIO4HM Fi PEKOMEQQA~HW  &&+JIJ ~l,l$JI:-~wl-~l~~  %IIf!i!‘wJ~%: &i!HlBü(
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  The next item on our agenda for this morning is the adoption of the  report of Commission II. We Will have to consider two documents: 25 C/l35 and
25 C/l35 Add. and Corr. 1 would suggest that we adopt the report in parts, as we  did yesterday, and not paragraph by paragraph, otherwise we shall be here till  midnight. With your kind permission, I shall submit to you for adoption a11 the  paragraphs first of the Draft Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) and then of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, followed where appropriate, by those  concerning particular items, as discussed by Commission II.
5.2 1 now have the pleasure to give the floor to Dr Victor OrdoÎiez,  Chairman of Commission II, who Will make a general introduction of his  Commission's report.
6.1 Mr ORDONEZ (Philippines), Chairman of Commission II:  Thank you Mr President. Honourable President of the General Conference,  Honourable Chairman of the Executive Board, Honourable Mr Director-General, Your  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to  present the report of Commission II, which is the result of extraordinary team  work among the delegates of the Member States, the members of the Secretariat,  the representative of the Director-General and officers of the Commission whom 1  acknowledge by name: my predecessor in the Chair, MS Lourdes Quisumbing  (Philippines); our Rapporteur, Dr Zougan Obiedat (Jordan); and our  Vice-Chairmen, Mr Jaroslav Kubrycht (Czechoslovakia), Mr Edgar Tripet  (Switzerland), Mr Agavia Wandira (Uganda) and - mOSt especially - MS Carmen  Jarvis (Guyana), who navigated Commission II through the difficult draft  resolutions pertaining to Unit 2.
6.2 Through you, Mr President, 1 would like to commend to the appreciation  of the plenary a11 those involved for their valuable contributions, their hard  work, and above all, for the friendly enthusiasm which permeated our meetings.  This created an excellent atmosphere of co-operation and professional  understanding, enabling us to finish our heavy work-load on schedule, with a  minimum number of extended meetings.
6.3 Mr President, as the delegates have the report concerning the decisions  taken before them and have had time to study it, it does not seem necessary for  me to make a detailed presentation. Rather, 1 would like to report on the  general debate.
6.4 Following from what 1 have just said about the friendly spirit of  co-operation, which 1 am sure Will have left a lasting impression on a11 who  participated, 1 would like to refer to the general consensus concerning the  appropriateness and quality of Major Programme Area 1: there was unanimous  support for the underlying themes of 'Towards basic education for all' and for  Mobilizing Project 1, 'Combating illiteracy', both as presented in the Draft  Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) as amended by the Executive Board and in the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. There were a few proposals for relatively  minor modifications in the activities.
6.5 Finally, as far as my general remarks are concerned, 1 would like to  say how encouraging it was that, despite the overall financial constraints which  are always with a11 of us, many Member States actually made offers to be of  assistance to each other and to co-operate with the Secretariat in the execution  of the programme.
6.6 Mr President, we are now prepared to present our report. The material  which Commission II brings to the plenary for its consideration consists  basically of three parts: Units 1, 2 and 3. Unit 1 essentially concerns the  struggle against illiteracy; Unit 2 deals with various aspects of education for  the twenty-first Century; and Unit 3 deals with policy and planning, and the  work of the three institutes, the International Bureau of Education, the  International Institute for Educational Planning and the Unesco Institute for  Education.
6.7 With your permission, Mr President, what we propose to do  correspondingly is present the oral report on the discussions in three parts,  followed by the discussion under your leadership of the draft report in the same  corresponding three parts of document 25 C/135. If this is acceptable to you,  Mr President, 1 Will therefore proceed with the report on Unit 1, which deals  with combating illiteracy.  Unit 1: Towards basic education for a11  Mobilizino Proiect 1: Combatins illiteracv
6.8 Distinguished delegates, the members of the Commission expressed strong  support for Programme 1.1, 'Towards basic education for all', as well as for  Mobilizing Project 1, 'Combating illiteracy'. There was unanimous agreement on  the high priority given by both the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft  Programme and Budget to the struggle against illiteracy. Various aspects of that  struggle were stressed during the debate, which was marked by a rich diversity  of perspectives from Member States with widely differing national conditions and  experiences. Unesco's unique role as a global clearing-house for literacy  activity was repeatedly emphasized throughout the debate, which included  references to Unesco's plan of action and the role of Unesco's regional  programmes and offices in stimulating literacy activity and the exchange of  information and experience.
6.5 Most speakers expressed alarm about the generally higher rates of  illiteracy amongst girls and women; and most speakers also drew attention to the  multidimensional nature of the problem of illiteracy, in particular the  economic, social and cultural obstacles to its eradication. Some speakers drew  attention to their countries' difficult situations in regard to the servicinq of  external debt, which diverted resources away from the social sectors including  education. Other speakers confessed that the quality of education in their  countries' schools was inadequate, with the result that the ranks of illiterates  were constantly being filled from below. Al1 speakers agreed on the necessity  for dramatic action. The celebration of International Literacy Year, it was  agreed, provided an opportunity for Member States both individually and  collectively to mobilize themselves for a concerted effort to seek a massive  reduction in the number of illiterates in the world. A number of speakers drew  attention to measures being taken in their countries to establish steering  committees for International Literacy Year. Strong support was expressed during  the debate for key events planned to take place during the coming year, notably  the World Conference on Education for Al1 in Thailand and the International  Conference on Education at which the main theme Will be 'Literacy'. It was hoped  that, quite apart from just a gradua1 effort against illiteracy, these two  events Will signal dramatic changes, not only worldwide but with specific Member  States, in terms of resources marshalled to combat illiteracy. The importance of  Unesco's assuming a leading role in these and other related events during the  year was stressed by members of the Commission.
6.10 Many speakers emphasized literacy as the starting-point or essential  foundation for a continuing process of lifelong education. In that connection,  they would have preferred a somewhat greater emphasis on adult education and  post-literacy in the Plan especially since, as some members of the Commission  pointed out, there was much room for discussion as to what really constituted  effective literacy in any given society. A few speakers, for example, considered  that computer literacy could not be excluded from a comprehensive definition of  literacy valid for the twenty-first Century. The essential point, it was  suggested, was that Young people and adults should be provided with an education  that would enable them to fulfil their full potential in society.
6.11 Most speakers endorsed the emphasis given in the Plan to improving the  quality of primary education with a view to cutting off illiteracy at its source  as one member of the Commission described it,  zv.  'nipping the problem in the  Several speakers drew attention to the need to reduce pupil wastage,  i.e. school drop-outs, particularly in rural areas. In that connection,  conditions in the schools, especially the absence or shortage of well-trained  and highly motivated teachers, appropriate textbooks and teaching materials and  a suitable physical environment Were mentioned as important contributory  factors. Some members of the Commission in fact drew attention ta the importance  of teacher education in general and thought that it should be given more  prominence in the Plan. Some speakers emphasized the effective role of Regional  Offices like the Regional Office for Education in the Arab States (UNEDBAS) and  others, and recommended that they be equipped to better serve the regions. A  specific plea was made by one member of the Commission for Unesco to consider  establishing a special prize, to be financed by voluntary contributions, for the  purpose of stimulating and recognizing meritorious activity by national and  international organizations and institutions working in the area of special  education for physically and mentally handicapped children.
6.12 The intersectoral and inter-agency co-operation project, 'The Young  Child and the family environment', received strong support from members of the  Commission. Speakers during the debate particularly welcomed the  interdisciplinary nature of the project, the involvement of other international  agencies and of non-governmental organizations, and the special attention that  Will be given to handicapped children. Some speakers, however, while conceding  that 'vulnerable children' should be the priority focus of the project, thought  that the conceptualization of the project should be somewhat broader SO as to  encompass ordinary families. During the debate a number of specific offers Of  collaboration with Unesco were made, including one of assistance from a  non-governmental organization in setting up a computerized data base on the  Young Child.
6.13 Mr President, this concludes the oral report on the discussions in  Commission II with regard to Unit 1.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Ordofiez. 1 think it is appropriate for me even now to  express thanks to you and the Rapporteur, Mr Zougan Obiedat of Jordan, who has  served as Rapporteur most efficiently, and also to the members of the  Secretariat who have assisted you.
7.2 We Will now proceed with the adoption of the section of the report  relating to Unit 1, paragraphs 1 to 19. We Will look at this section in two  parts, paragraphs 1 to 5 and paragraphs 6 to 19.
7.3 Paragraphs 2 to 5 pertain to the Draft Medium-Term Plan: they caver the  recommendations of the Commission on the relevant parts of the proposed  resolutions in document 25 C/4 (Annex 1), as amended by draft resolutions  submitted by Member States, and of the text of document 25 C/4.
7.4 1 now submit to you this part of the report. No objections. Thank you.
7.5 Paragraphs 6 to 19 pertain to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991. They concern the recommendations of the Commission on the relevant  parts of the resolutions proposed in document 25 C/5.
7.6 Paragraph 8 presents two resolutions proposed in documents 25 C/71 and
25 C/72 recommended for adoption. Paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12 present draft  resolutions recommended for adoption. May 1 remind you that the figures of the  proposed budget (para. 13) are subject to adjustments in the light of the  decisions that have to be taken by the joint meeting of the five Programme  Commissions and the Administrative Commission?
7.7 This part of the report is now submitted to you. 1 see no objections.
7.8 May 1 then consider that, as regards Unit 1, the General Conference  adopts the relevant parts of the resolutions proposed in the C/4 and C/5  documents as amended by the Commission; approves the text of the C/4, also as  amended by the Commission, as well as the budget proposed in the C/5 document;  takes note of the work plan in the C/5 document and adopts the resolutions in  paragraphs 8 to 12? Thank you.
7.9 It is SO decided.
7.10 Mr Ordofiez Will now present the part of the report of Commission II  dealing with Unit 2 and items 7.1, 7.3, 7.4, 7.7 and 6.10. You have the floor,  Mr Ordofiez.
831    Unit 2: Education for the twentv-first Century  Item 7.1 - Follow-UP to the first consultation of Member States on the  implementation of the revised Recommendation concerninu Technical  and Vocational Education: Report bv the Executive Board's Committee  on Conventions and Recommendations  Item 7.3 - First reports bv Member States on the implementation of the  Recommendation concerninq Education for International Understandins,  Co-operation and Peace and Education relatins to Human Riohts and  Fundamental Freedoms  Item 7.4 - Draft Convention on Technical and Vocational Education  Item 7.7 - Desirabilitv of adoptins an international convention on the  recosnition of studies, deqrees and dinlomas in hiqher education  Item 6.10 - Proposed amendment to the Statutes of the International Fund for the  Development of Phvsical Education and Sport
8.1 Mr ORDOfiEZ (Philippines), Chairman of Commission II:  This part of my report deals with Unit 2, which comprises  Programme 1.2: 'Education for the twenty-first Century', and the five items  that you have enumerated, as follows: item 7.1: Follow-up to the first  consultation of Member States on the implementation of the Revised  Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education: Report by the  Executive Board's Committee on Conventions and Recommendations; item 7.3: First  reports by Member States on the implementation of the Recommendation concerning  Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education  relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms; item 7.4: Draft Convention  on Technical and Vocational Education; item 7.7: Desirability of adopting an  international convention on the recognition of studies, degrees and diplomas in  higher education; and item 6.10: Proposed amendment to the Statutes of the  International Fund for the Development of Physical Education and Sport.
8.2 First then, my report on the discussion of Unit 2: 'Education for the  twenty-first Century'. Delegates from 58 Member States, observers from six  non-governmental organizations and from the International Olympic Committee  participated in the debate on Unit 2, and voiced general support for  Programme 1.2, which was considered to be both timely and relevant. Many  speakers appreciated the efforts and creativity of the Assistant  Director-General for Education in his interest in planning for the twenty-first  Century. One speaker, referring to the challenge facing education in the  twenty-first Century, hoped that Unesco would lead and direct education towards  a new educational philosophy for the coming Century. However, there were some  expressions of regret that the proposed activities did not fully resp,ond to the  ambitions of the title and that resource allocations, especially for  Subprogrammes 1.2.3, 'Education and the world of work', and 1.2.5, 'Higher  education and the changing needs of society', were too modest.
8.3 Many speakers felt that educational activities concerning international  and environmental education should be presented in Major Programme Area 1 and be  discussed with educational experts in Commission II. It was suggested that  ethical and moral values should find their place in a11 fields of education,  giving a strong positive orientation to activities aiming at improvement of the  quality of life. Several delegates recommended that the place and prestige of  physical and sports education should be enhanced in schools and society  generally, and that co-operation with voluntary sports movements engaged in the  struggle against doping and violence and the reduction of disparities in sport  should be reinforced. Many speakers, while highlighting the role of language  teaching in promoting the ideals of international understanding, also stressed  the importance of the mother tongue and national languages.
8.4 On vocational and technical education, a large majority of speakers  referred to the importance of technical and vocational education and underlined  the role of agricultural education for development. It was widely felt that the  proposed Draft Convention, which received general support, would contribute to  further development of technical and vocational education at the national level  and to increased co-operation in this area. While welcoming the strengthening  of science education as part of basic education, several speakers also stressed  its crucial role at the post-primary level in the perspective of preparing for  the twenty-first Century. It was noted by many speakers that science as well as  the technical and vocational education elements are costly, and hence that there  was particular value in reinforcing the exchange of information and of teaching
832    materials. The importance of training teachers in those areas was also noted.  Several speakers welcomed the special efforts proposed for girls and women,  including guidance services. Many speakers offered their countries'  collaboration in carrying out activities proposed in Subprogrammes 1.2.3 and
1.2.4 and one delegate suggested the launching of a special extra-budgetary fund  for technical and vocational education.  a.5 On higher education, nearly a11 the speakers who referred to higher  education and the changing needs of society expressed their appreciation for  this comprehensive subprogramme, its objectives and proposed activities. Many  delegates stressed the importance of developing close co-operation with  intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations as well as  with higher education institutions and the whole academic community. Several  speakers requested that an evaluation of the working conditions of the European  Centre for Higher Education be presented at the 1990 spring session of the  Executive Board. Other delegates stressed the need to reinforce activities and  resources of regional centres in the Latin America and Caribbean and the Asia  and Pacifie regions. Several looked forward to the feasibility study for the  University of the Peoples of Europe and underlined its importance for European  co-operation as recommended by MINEDEUROPE IV. Many speakers supported the  proposa1 to prepare an international convention on the recognition of diplomas,  while others felt that this was premature and suggested a fuller implementation  and an evaluation of the existing regional conventions.
8.6 Mr President, before 1 conclude my comments on this unit, 1 must draw  your attention to a clerical omission from 25 C/l35 Add. and Corr. The text is  present in the Spanish version, but was inadvertently left out of the other  language versions. The following should therefore be added at the end of  paragraph 43, which we discussed and recommended for approval at the last  meeting of Commission II:  ‘4. The Commission therefore suggested the following procedure: a  meeting of expert's would prepare a draft convention which should  be submitted to Member States for their observations 14 months  before the opening of the next session of the General Conference;  those observations would then be incorporated in the draft and a  final report would be sent to Member States with a final draft of  the convention seven months before the next session of the General  Conference'.  a.7 Mr President, with that inclusion I have corne to the end of my oral  report on the discussion of Unit 2. Thank you very much.  (Mr Van Loosdrecht, Netherlands, took the Chair)
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now have to adopt the section of the report relating to Discussion  Unit 2 and items 7.1, 7.3, 7.4, 7.7 and 6.10 (paras. 20 to 44, and the Addendum  and Corrigendum). 1 propose to divide this into three parts, paragraphs 20 to
22, paragraphs 23 to 39, and paragraphs 40 to 44.
9.2 Paragraphs 21 and 22 pertain to the third Medium-Term Plan;  paragraph 21 to the relevant parts of the resolution proposed for Major  Programme Area 1 (25 C/4, Annex 1), as amended in the Commission; and  paragraph 22 to the text of the Medium-Term Plan.
9.3 1 now submit to YOU this part of the report. Are there aw  objections? There seem to be no objections.
9.4 Paragraphs 23 to 39 pertain to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991 and are divided as follows: paragraph 23 concerns the relevant parts  of the resolution proposed in document 25 C/5; paragraph 24 refers to the  resolution proposed by the Executive Board in document 25 C/73 Add.;  paragraphs 25, 26, 30 and 31 refer to draft resolutions submitted by Member  States; and paragraphs 27 to 29 concern resolutions proposed in document 25 C/82.
9.5 1 must remind you that the figure of the proposed budget (para. 39) is  subject to adjustments in the light of the decisions that have to be taken by  the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative  Commission.
9.6 1 now submit to you this part of the report. Are there any objections?
1 give the floor to the delegate of the Ukrainian SSR.  a33
(10) M. TSVETKOV (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine)  (traduit du russe) :  Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la RSS d'Ukraine demande qu'on  appelle l'attention sur le paragraphe 33. Lors de l'examen du projet de rapport,  notre Commission a signalé l'imprécision de ce paragraphe quant à l'amendement  présenté par la RSS d'Ukraine (25 C/DR.lOL) au sujet du projet LINGUAPAX. Or, le  Directeur général et la Commission ont approuvé le document 25 C/DR.102. Lors de la  séance de clôture de la Commission II, le Représentant du Directeur général,  M. Power, a d'ailleurs donné les explications nécessaires et fourni les assurances  que l'amendement de la RSS d'Ukraine serait inclus dans le paragraphe 01204 du
25 C/5. Nous demandons au Secrétariat d'en tenir compte lors de l'établissement de  la version définitive du C/5. Je vous remercie.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, 1 am quite sure that the Secretariat Will take  your remarks into account. Will that satisfy you?
(12) M. TSVETKOV (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine)  (traduit du russe) :  Oui, je vous remercie.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  May 1 then consider that, as regards Unit 2, the General Conference  adopts the recommendations relating to resolutions submitted by Member States;  adopts the relevant parts of the resolutions proposed in the C/4 and C/5  documents, as amended by the Commission; approves the text of the C/4 document,  also as amended by the Commission, as well as the budget proposed in the C/5  document; and takes note of the work plan in the C/5 document.
13.2 It is SO decided.
13.3 Let us now turn to paragraphs 40 to 44 concerning items 7.1, 7.3, 7.4,
7.7 and 6.10. May 1 take it that the General Conference approves these five  paragraphs?
13.4 There seem to be no objections. It is SO decided.
13.5 1 shall now invite Mr Ordofiez to continue his presentation of the  Commission*s report.  Unit 3: Promotino and supportino educational develooment  Item 6.7 - Proposed amendments to the Statutes of the International Bureau of  Education  Item 7.2 - Fourth report bv the Joint ILO/Unesco Committee of Experts on the  Application of the Recommendation concernino the Status Of Teachers
14.1 Mr ORDONEZ (Philippines), Chairman of Commission II:  Thank you, Mr President. The third section of my report concerns  Unit 3, Programme 1.3, 'Promoting and supporting educational development'. It  also includes a report concerning discussions on the International Bureau of  Education, the International Institute for Educational Planning and the Unesco  Institute for Education in Hamburg. Finally it deals with two items - item 6.7:  Proposed amendments to the Statutes of the International Bureau of Education;  and item 7.2: Fourth report by the Joint ILO/Unesco Committee of Experts on the  Application of the Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers. Here,  Mr President, is my brief oral report on the discussions on Unit 3: Programme
1.3 and agenda items 6.7 and 7.2.  a34
14.2 In the debate on Programme 1.3, 56 speakers took the floor, including  delegates from 49 Member States and representatives of Palestine, two liberation  movements and four international non-governmental organizations. Their  interventions expressed unanimous support for this programme and for the role  played by the International Bureau of Education (IBE), the International  Institute of Educational Planning (IIEP) and the Unesco Institute for Education  in Hamburg (UIE).
14.3 With reference to Subprogramme 1.3.1, 'Educational policies and  strategies', many speakers expressed approval of the activities on policy  analysis. It was also argued that Unesco should encourage the development of  strategies for a range of population groups. In this connection, particular  stress was put on the needs and special circumstances of small States, both  individually and in their regional subgroupings. There was also strong support  for increased programme actions in favour of women and girls, educational  activities for the people of Palestine and special attention to least-developed  countries (LDCs), while it was deemed regrettable by' some delegates that a  programme of activities in favour of migrant workers and their families or  resettled and nomadic people could not be continued as in the past.
14.4 There was a mixed reaction during the debate on standard-setting  instruments. This ranged from unreserved full support through reserved  positions to objection. Further, whilst there was no adverse comment on the  Convention against Discrimination in Education, the discussions concerning a  possible convention with respect to the status of teachers and teachers in  higher education proved more controversial. However, a number of delegates  supported the joint ILO/Unesco actions, as well as the CEART Report, and some  welcomed the new working methods proposed by the Joint Committee of Experts on  the Application of the 1966 Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers.
14.5 Most speakers expressed support for Subprogramme 1.3.2, 'Management and  planning of educational development'. They stressed the need for innovative  approaches and techniques. They fully supported the priority to be given to the  development of national training capacities and to the training of trainers in  liaison with the Regional Offices and networks. Many speakers expressed their  hope that the forthcoming International Congress on 'Planning and Management of  Educational Development', scheduled to be held in Acapulco, 26-30 March 1990,  would strengthen the role of educational planning and management in the  follow-up of the World Conference on Education for Al1 in Thailand. Several  delegates expressed their support for activities related to the setting up of  pilot educational buildings resistant to natural disasters, as well as to the  design and construction of low-cost multifunctional educational buildings.
14.6 Many speakers gave full support to activities under Subprogramme 1.3.3,  'Innovation, technology and research'. The positive role of the regional  networks for educational innovation was underlined, especially for the  development of national capacities and for maintaining national cultural  identities. A number of speakers urged that increased support be given to these  networks. The important role Unesco cari play in assisting Member States in  educational applications of new information and communication technologies was  emphasized, particularly as a follow-up to the International Congress in  Education and Informatics, which was held here in Paris this year. The proposed  study of a worldwide satellite network for educational purposes was called  worthy of Unesco's effort and investment. However, some speakers advised a  cautious approach and urged that the needs of the poorer countries should not be  forgotten.
14.7 Subprogramme 1.3.4 was generally supported. 1ts three actions:  educational information and documentation services; the publication of  'Prospects'; and the preparation of the World Education Report were appreciated  by the representatives of Member States, who wished that appropriate resources  could ensure the effective execution of these actions, particularly the timely  edition and diffusion of 'Prospects', largely praised for its quality, variety,  objectivity and usefulness.
14.8 The necessity of ensuring optimal complementarity and integration of  documentation and information services provided at and away from Headquarters  was stressed by several members of the Commission. Many speakers welcomed the  proposed new World Education Report and stressed that it should be seen as  complementary to the International Yearbook of Education.
14.9 Many speakers expressed appreciation of the work of the International  Bureau of Education (IBE) and of the draft resolution and the work plan for
1990-1991 proposed by the Bureau's Council. The role of IBE and the forthcoming
42nd session of the International Conference on Education (ICE) in ensuring the  a35    follow-up of the World Conference on Education for Al1 was mentioned. The  proposed replacement at the 43rd session of ICE of the theme 'New educational  problems facing teachers' by the theme 'The contribution of education to  cultural development' was generally endorsed, though a few reservations were  expressed. When recalling the need for IBE to reinforce its role as centre of  exchange, synthesis and dissemination of information and experiences in the area  of education, some speakers suggested that the Bureau's facilities should be  used to a greater extent for training specialists in comparative education and  documentalists.
14.10 As reyards the International Institut-e for Educational Planning (IIEP),  the delegates who referred to its programme were unanimous in recognizing the  quality of the services in research and training delivered by this institute.  Many delegates asked IIEP to extend its training programme in the area of  administration and management of education and to contribute further to the  strengthening of national capacities for training and research. In this regard,  the training of trainers programmes, as well as the consultative services  provided by IIEP to establish and develop national training institutions, were  considered as adequate ways of addressing the needs of developing countries in  educational planning and administration. Many delegates also expressed their  wish to see IIEP play an important role in the follow-up of the World Conference  on Education for All.
14.11 A good number of delegates indicated their appreciation of the Unesco  Institute for Education (UIE)'s programmes and their support for its proposed  work plan. They mentioned especially the valuable work done by the Institute in  Hamburg in the area of post-literacy and continuing education in the framework  of lifelong learning for developing countries as well as of functional literacy  for industrialized countries.
14.12 That, Mr President, concludes my summary of the debate on Unit 3 and  items 6.7 and 7.2. Thank you.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. We now have to adopt the section of the report  and its Addendum and Corrigendum relating to Unit 3, Programme 1.3, and  items 6.7 and 7.2 (paras. 45 to 75). 1 propose to divide this into three parts,  paragraphs 45 to 47, paragraphs 48 to 66, and paragraphs 67 and 68.
15.2 Paragraphs 46 and 47 refer to the Draft Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995):  paragraph 46 to the relevant parts of the resolution proposed for Major  Programme Area 1 (25 C/4, Annex 1), as amended by the Commission; and  paragraph 47 to the text of the Plan.
15.3 I submit to you this part of the report. Are there any objections?  There seem to be no objections.
15.4 Paragraphs 48 to 69 concern the Draft Programme and Budget.  Paragraph 48 refers to the relevant parts of the resolution proposed in document
25 C/4 for Major Programme Area 1, as amended by the Commission. Paragraghs 49  to 51 refer to the resolutions proposed concerning the International Bureau of  Education (IBE), the International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) and  the Unesco Institute for Education (UIE).
15.5 Paragraphs 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57 refer to recommendations  concerning draft resolutions submitted by Member States.
15.6 1 must remind YOU again that the figure of the proposed budget  (para. 66) is subject to adjustments in the light of the decisions that have to  be taken by the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the  Administrative Commission.
15.7 1 submit to you this part of the report. Are there any objections?
15.8 The delegate of Israel has the floor.
16. Mr DANIEL1 (Israel):  Thank you, Mr President. My government reserves its position with  regard to subparagraph 48 (c)(ii), namely the last paragraph on page 38,  concerning the territories administrated by Israel, in accordance with its  position on this matter as expressed during this session of the Conference.  Thank you, Mr President.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Israel. His remarks Will, of  course, be duly taken note of.
17.2 May 1 then consider that, as regards Unit 3, the General Conference  adopts the Commission's recommendations relating to draft resolutions submitted  by Member States; adopts the relevant parts of the resolutions proposed in the  C/4 and C/5 documents, as amended by the Commission; approves the text of  document 25 C/4, also as amended by the Commission, as well as the budget  proposed in document 25 C/5 and takes note of the work plan in document 25 C/5?
17.3 It is SO decided.
17.4 We now corne to the part of the report relating to items 6.7 and 7.2  (paras. 67 and 68) and Commission II recommends that the General Conference  amend the Statutes of the International Bureau of Education and adopt the  resolution proposed by the Executive Board in document 25 C/29 Add.
17.5 1 submit to you this part of the report. Are there any objections?  There seem to be no objections.
17.6 1 then consider that the General Conference amends the Statutes of the  International Bureau of Education and adopts the resolution presented in  paragraph 68.
17.7 It is SO decided.
17.8 1 shall now invite Mr Ordofiez to continue his presentation of the  Commission's report. Mr Ordofiez, you have the floor.
18.1 Mr ORDOfiEZ (Philippines), Chairman of Commission II:  Thank you, Mr President. 1 have in fact completed my report on the  discussions on Units 1, 2 and 3. The final part of our report,  paragraphs 69-75, concerns Major Programme Area I as a whole and it merely  remains for this body to approve those final paragraphs.
18.2 Paragraphs 69 and 70 concern the Draft Medium-Term Plan. Paragraph 69  proposes the adoption of the whole of the proposed resolution concerning Major  Programme Area 1. We have already adopted the elements concerned with  Programme 1.1, Programme 1.2 and Programme 1.3 earlier this morning under  paragraphs 2, 21 and 45. It also concerns the proposed resolution concerning  mobilizing projects. Again, we have already adopted the resolution for  Mobilizing Project 1, 'Combating illiteracy', in paragraph 3 of the report.  Paragraph 70 concerns the text.
18.3 Paragraphs 71-74 concern the draft programme and budget for Major  Programme Area 1 as a whole, including Mobilizing Project 1. Paragraph 71  proposes the adoption of the whole of the proposed resolution concerning this  major programme area. Again, we have already adopted the elements concerned  with Programmes 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 in paragraphs 6, 23 and 48 of the report.
18.4 SO, Mr President, my final task is to seek the approval of the  honourable assembly concerning the overall presentation of Major Programme  Area 1.
18.5 Mr President, since this is probably the last time 1 Will take the  floor, may 1 be allowed a final persona1 note? The opportunity 1 have been  given to assume the chairmanship of Commission II has been a challenge and  responsibility, but 1 recognize that it is also a great honour, a once in a  lifetime chance and a truly enriching experience. If my chairmanship has in  fact contributed to the successful and orderly completion of the work of  Commission II, it is because of the officers and staff of our Commission to whom
1 have already paid tribute at the outset this morning; and it is because of the  persona1 kind words of encouragement and support from the President of the  General Conference, from you, Mr Director-General, and from SO many others.
18.6 A person's mind is like a fickle secretary: there is no telling which  thoughts, ideas and feelings it Will file away in its memory and which ones it  Will discard over time. My filing cabinet of memories of the twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference of Unesco is overflowing with interventions,  DRs, appeals, resolutions and valuable insights. Many of these Will fade and  dim over time, but there is one thing that 1 am sure Will continue to shine  brightly through the years: the genuine caring, the dedicated commitment of SO  many individuals 1 have seen and met from a11 over the globe who have shared  their knowledge, their wisdom, the nobility of the human spirit, embodying to  the rest of mankind the best that Unesco stands for. In the unknown land of  many tomorrows, 1 am sure of one thing in my case, and 1 hope in yours: what the  mind has long forgotten the heart Will always remember.
18.7 And SO to you, Mr President; to you, Mr Director-General; and to SO  many of you who have inspired and thus supported me, 1 truly thank you very much.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 think that as Chairman of Commission II, Mr Ordofiez, you have made a  great contribution to the work of this General Conference and 1 would also like  to compliment you on the clear  which has, of course,  way in which you have presented your report,  been a great help to a11 delegates.
19.2 1 propose that we look at this part of the report, paragraphs 69 to 75,  as a whole. 1 must remind you again that the figures of the proposed budget we  are to adopt (para. 74) are subject to adjustments in the light of the decisions  that have to be taken by the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and  the Administrative Commission - you know this formula by heart by now.
19.3 Are there any objections to the adoption of this part of the report?  There seem to be no objections. May 1 then consider that, as regards Major  Programme Area 1 and Mobilizing Project 1, the General Conference adopts the  complete resolution proposed in the C/4 and C/5 documents, as amended by the  Commission; approves the text of the C/4 document, also as amended by the  Commission; approves as well the budget proposed in the C/5 document; and takes  note of the work plan in the C/5 document?
19.4 It is SO decided.
19.5 Ladies and gentlemen,  report of Commission II.  we have therefore terminated the adoption of the  and thank once
1 should like to thank you a11 for your co-operation  again Mr Ordofiez,  comprehensive and clear presentation.  Chairman of Commission II, for his very
19.6 The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 11 h.05  The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 11.05
3X‘%tHHC 3aKpbIBXTCX B 11.05  Lt+a\\,.o~WI~-~I~,  *ütrlltio5+j~iff