Vingt-huitième séance plénière
9 novembre 1989, à 15 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
9 ~on6pnl989 r. a 15.10  npencena’renb: r-H AHBAP I46PATWM (Manaiism)
819    ELECTION DES MEMBRES DES COMITES DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE POUR LA VINGT-SIXIEME  SESSION ET ELECTION DE MEMBRES D'AUTRES ORGANES (points 13.2 à 13.14)/ELECTION  OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEES OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE FOR THE TWENTY-SIXTH  SESSION AND ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF OTHER BODIES (items 13.2 to 13.14)/ELECCION  DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LOS COMITES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL PARA LA 26a. REUNION Y  ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE OTROS ORGANOS (puntos 13.2 a 13.14)/  BbIBOPbI WEHOB KOMMTETOB rEHEPAJIbHOh KOHQEPEH~MM JJJISI DBmuATb IIIECTO$i CECCI,Uf, A  TAKXCE BbIFiOPbI WIEHOB ,QPYI-HX OPTAHOB (nYHKTb1 13.2-13.14 FIOBECTKM Am)  + J,eLLjI) c5+i ül+ p ,Lki ukii13 &+AI3 LJI-II s,+ll fWl +.J.ll ,y *lr;LCi +tiI
1.1 The PRES'CDENT:  Good af::.?rnoon, ladies and gentlemen. The twenty-eighth plenary meeting  of the General Conference of Unesco is called to order. Do we have a quorum? 1  do not think SO. 1 think 1 shall have to adjourn the meeting for a few minutes,  in accordance with Rule 69.3 of the Rules of Procedure. With your consent, we  shall subsequently proceed with the plenary meeting.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 We Will now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to consider the third report  of the Nominations Committee. The items before us are items 13.2 to 13.14 of  the agenda: Composition of committees, commissions and other bodies. w0ula YOU  please turn to document 25 C/l33 which contains the third report of the  Nominations Committee on these items? 1 now have pleasure in giving the floor  to Mr Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan, our able Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(2.1) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. The report of the Nominations Committee is  contained in document 25 C/133, which you now have before you for consideration. But  before turning to the matter in hand, 1 should like to express my gratitude on your  behalf to a11 the electoral groups and Member States for their co-operation, even  when certain awkward problems were encountered. 1 should also like to thank them for  the patience they showed during the counting of the votes. In many cases, the  results were a reflection of the effort invested and witnessed at every turn the  genuine resolve of the delegates to avoid holding a ballet wherever possible.
(2.2) 1 shall now move on to my report on the recommendations of the Nominations  Committee to this plenary meeting: items 13.2 to 13.14; Composition of committees,  commissions and other bodies. The Committee held its fourth, fifth, sixth and  seventh meetings on 31 October and 4, 6 and 8 November 1989 respectively, in order  to adopt its proposals for the composition of the committees, commissions and other  bodies in accordance with Rule 30, paragraphs 1 and 5, of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference.
(2.3) The Committee considered a11 the nominations submitted by Member States or  electoral gros , and had at its disposa1 in that connection documents
25 C/NOM/INF.Z and 25 C/NOM/INF.P Rev.1. The debate that took place and the various  statements made by candidate Member States or representatives of the groups showed  both the interest taken by Member States in the activities of the intergovernmental  councils and the growing difficulty within some groups in reaching agreement on  submitting a number of candidates equal to that of the seats to be filled.
(2.4) At the conclusion of its discussions, the Committee expressed the wish that  (a) the electoral groups, (b) the committees, commissions and subsidiary organs of  the General Conference on which not a11 Member States are represented, and (c) the  other bodies whose members are to be elected or otherwise designated by the General  Conference should be invited to give consideration at their meetings in 1990 and
1991 to the question of diversity of cultures and balanced geographical distribution  as this was a question to which the Nominations Committee would pay particular  attention when submitting to the General Conference at its twenty-sixth session its  recommendations concerning the composition of committees, commissions and other  bodies.
(2.5) The Nominations Committee also wishes to suggest that the grouw ,  commissions and other bodies should convey their views to the Secretariat before the
137th session of the Executive Board in order that the Board may prepare a report  regarding these matters for submission to the General Conference at its twenty-sixth  session.
(2.6) At its sixth and seventh meetings, the Committee voted by secret ballot for  eight bodies with a view to adopting its proposals concerning the lists of  nominations submitted by electoral groups III and IV. Al1 the other groups had  submitted a number of candidates equal to the number of seats to be filled in  respect of a11 committees, commissions and other bodies.
(2.7) Under item 13.2 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose  to the General Conference the following composition for the Legal Committee
(21 members): Algeria, Argentina, Bulgaria, Chad, Costa Rica, Egypt, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Ghana, Honduras, Jordan, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway ,  Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and Venezuela.
(2.8) Under item 13.3 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose  to the General Conference the following composition for the Headquarters Committee
(25 members): Costa Rica, Domocratic Kampuchea, Finland, France, Gabon, Ghana,  Guatemala, Israel, Jordan, Kenya, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland,  Republic of Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Uruguay and Yemen.
(2.9) Under item 13.4 of the agenda, the Committee took note of the withdrawal of  some nominations and after voting by secret ballot decided to propose that the  General Conference should elect the following three persons to the three seats to be  filled on the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for seeking the  settlement of any disputes that may arise between States Parties to the Convention  against Discrimination in Education: Mr Fawzi Abdel Zahir Khamis (Egypt), Mr Andreas  Mavrommatis (Cyprus), MS Laetitia Eulalia Mary Mukasa-Kikonyogo (Uganda).
(2.10) Under item 13.5 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the list submitted by electoral group IV for which a vote proved  necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member  States to the 18 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Council of the
823    International Programme for the Development of Communication: Bangladesh, Brazil,  Burkina Faso, Denmark, Guyana, Hungary , India, Jamaica, Japan, Mauritania,  Mozambique, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics and Venezuela.
(2.11) Under item 13.6 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the lists submitted by electoral groups III and IV for which a vote  proved necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following  Member States to the 14 seats to be filled on the Council of the International  Bureau of Education: Benin, Colombia, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, Federal Republic  of Germany, Malaysia, Malawi, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Spain, Tunisia and Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics.
(2.12) Under item 13.7 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose  to the General Conference the following composition for the Intergovernmental  Committee for Physical Education and Sport (16 members): Burundi, China, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, India, Japan, Jordan, Madagascar, Poland,  Sierra Leone, Tunisia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Uruguay.
(2.13) Under item 13.8 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the list submitted by electoral group III for which a vote proved  necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member  States to the 17 seats to be filled on the Committee responsible for co-ordinating  the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Democratic  People’s Republic of Korea, Equatorial Guinea, France, Islamic Republic of Iran,  Mexico, Morocco, Norway, Republic of Korea, Senegal, Spain, Togo, Uganda, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia.
(2.14) Under item 13.9 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the list submitted by electoral group III for which a vote proved  necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member  States to the 16 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Council of the General  Information Programme: Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Côte d’ivoire, Denmark, Democratic  People’s Republic of Korea, France, Greece, Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, Saudi  Arabia, Togo > Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and Venezuela.
(2.15) Under item 13.10 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the lists submitted by electoral groups III and IV for which a vote  proved necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following  Member States to the 14 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Council for the  International Hydrological Programme: Argentina, Bangladesh, China, Gabon, Greece,  Hungary, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Spain and  Turkey .
(2.16) Under item 13.11 of the agenda, the Committee docided unanimously, with the  exception of the lists submitted by electoral groups III and IV for which a vote  proved necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following  Member States to the 16 seats to be filled on the International Co-ordinating  Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphere: Brazil, China, Denmark,  Equatorial Guinea, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary,  Japan, Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malta, Oman, Portugal, Venezuela, Zaire and  Zimbabwe.
(2.17) Under item 13.12 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to  propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to the
15 seats to be filled on the Executive Committee of the International Campaign for  the Establishment of the Nubia Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian  Civilization in Cairo: Argentina, Belgium, Chad, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, El Salvador,  France, Greece, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Niger, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Sweden. It  should be noted that one seat was given up to electoral group IV by electoral  group 1.
(2.18) Under item 13.13 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to  propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to the
10 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of  Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit  Appropriation: Australia, Cuba, Guatemala, India, Iraq, Madagascar, Republic of  Korea, Sierra Leone, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Uruguay.
(2.19) Under item 13.14 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the  exception of the list submitted by electoral group IV for which a vote proved  necessary, to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member  States to the 18 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Committee of the World  Decade for Cultural Development: Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, German  Democratic Republic, Guinea, Indonesia, Italy, Lebanon, Netherlands, Niger, Peru,  Portugal, Senegal, Switzerland, Thailand and Zaire.
(2.20) Mr President, those were the reconunendations of the Nominations Committee  for a11 the committees, commissions and other bodies of the General Conference.  However, 1 should not like to finish without paying tribute to those who complied  with my request to serve as tellers, a strenuous task which entailed many hours of  work. They were from the delegations of Colombia, Luxembourg, Mongola and Zaire. 1  should also like to thank the Secretariat of the General Conference, particularly  the Secretary of the Committee, Mr Abdelaziz Abid, his colleague Mr Ernesto  Fernandez Montagne, MS Cazenave and Mr M. Paszkowski, the representative of the  Legal Adviser, for the hard work that they did at a11 our Committee’s meetings.  Without their assistance, we should have been unable to accomplish our task. 1 am  particularly grateful to them for their unremitting efforts to assist us in our  proceedings. 1 should also like to thank the team of interpreters and the conference  room staff, who went to great lengths to make the Committee's task as easy as  possible in spite of the technical difficulties that they had to contend with. Thank  you very much, Mr President.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mr Musa Bin Jaafar  Bin Hassan. May 1, on behalf of the General Conference, express my gratitude  and thanks to him. You have fulfilled your tasks extremely well, right from the  first meeting of the Nominations Committee, and 1 think it is only appropriate  that, on behalf of the General Conference as a whole, 1 should express our  appreciation and gratitude to you and also to the members of the Nominations  Committee. 1 also wish to thank the Secretariat members who assisted the  Committee for their excellent work. We have not encountered aw problem  throughout the course of the Committee's meetings and this is, of course, thanks  to you, the members of the Committee and also the members of the Secretariat.
3.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us document 25 C/l33 concerning  the composition of the different committees, commissions and other bodies as a  whole. Now , 1 am proposing to you that we deal with a11 these various bodies  together. The Chairman of the Nominations Committee has read out to you the  document which is in front of you. I Will give the floor to any delegates who  would like to express their views or objections before we adopt this as a  whole. If you have no objection, 1 shall follow this procedure.
3.3 The delegate of Sweden has the floor.
4. MS ULVHAMMAR (Sweden):  Mr President, would you please be SO good as to repeat the names of the  countries listed under item 13.7? Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, would the Chairman of the Committee please read out again the 1iSt  under item 13.7?
(6) Mr BIN HASSAN (Oman), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (Translation  from the Arabie):  Mr President, Here again is the list of members of the Intergovernmental  Committee for Physical Education and Sport. 1 shall read the names out slowly:  Burundi, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, India, Japan,  Jordan, Madagascar, Poland, Sierra Leone, Tunisia, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and Uruguay.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. There seems to be some confusion as to whether Poland  or the Netherlands is on the list: it should be Poland. 1s that clear now,  MS Ulvhammar?
8. MS ULVHAMMAR (Sweden):  Yes, Mr President. It should be Poland. Thank you.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Any other remarks, please? There are no more objections, questions Or  clarifications. 1 therefore propose that the General Conference, after
825    expressing our appreciation and thanks to the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, its membe rs and the Secretariat staff concerned, adopt now the  recommendations contained in document 25 C/l33 concerning the composition of the  different committees, commissions and other bodies.  It is SO decided.
9.3 Our next meeting Will be at 10 a.m. tomorrow. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 15 h.45  The meeting rose at 3.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 15.45