Neuvième séance plénière
21 octobre 1989, à 10 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. CHARFI (Tunisie)  Ninth plenary meeting
21 October 1989 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr CHARFI (Tunisia)  Novena sesion plenaria
325    DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OBCy>YqEHklEBOlIPOCOBOB~E~l-IOJlkITl4KM(l-lPO~OJlXEHME)  (&) LWI L&AI -Lslio  Pa%%s ( t!% )
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, gooa morning. Mw 1 cal1 the  meeting to oraer? Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no quorum 1 shall adjourn  the meeting for five minutes and we shall then proceed with our business, if  there are no objections.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 May 1 remind you that the President of the Portuguese Republic, His  Excellency Mr Mario Soares, Will pay an officia1 visit to the General Conference  on Monday, 23 October at 10.15 a.m. and that delegates are expected to be in  their places by 10.a.m.
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed with the general policy  debate and the first speaker this morning is Mr Juan Antonio Samaranch,  President of the International Olympic Committee. He has the floor.
2.1 M. SAMARANCH (Comité international olympique) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs les délégués, permettez-moi, au nom du Comité international olympique, de  saluer la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco et de profiter de l'occasion qui m'est  offerte pour vous faire part de quelques considérations sur le rôle que joue dans  la société moderne le sport pratiqué dans un esprit olympique et pour relever les  domaines d'intérêt commun entre votre Organisation et le Comité international  olympique.
2.2 Le Mouvement olympique, créé il y a environ un siècle ici à Paris a  connu, surtout pendant la dernière décennie, un développement remarquable, au  point de devenir l'un des phénomènes les plus importants de la société moderne.  Il rassemble, dans une parfaite unité de conception et d'action, le Comité inter-  national olympique, les fédérations sportives internationales, les 167 comités  nationaux olympiques ainsi que d'autres organisations et personnes qui respectent  et acceptent les prescriptions de la Charte olympique. A son plus haut niveau,  le Mouvement olympique s'exprime par les Jeux olympiques, qui représentent la  plus importante manifestation de solidarité internationale mise au service de la  bonne entente entre les peuples et aussi l'expression de la paix qui doit régner  dans le monde.
2.3 C'est dans la formation d'un être humain harmonieusement développé du  point de vue physique et spirituel que le sport olympique trouve sa raison d'être  et son rôle primordial dans le cadre de la société humaine. La pratique du sport  devient de plus en plus une composante irremplaçable de l'activité humaine, le  principal facteur qui maintient  psychique capable,  l'être humain dans un équilibre physique et  par son rôle formateur, de développer des traits de caractère  - correction, loyauté, discipline,  savoir-gagner,  respect pour les partenaires, esprit de corps,  savoir-perdre, volontariat au service de la cause commune - en  générant de nouvelles relations interpersonnelles qui renforcent la cohésion de  la société moderne.
2.4 L'importance du sport pratiqué conformément à l'idéal olympique a été  reconnue par les autorités publiques et a trouvé sa place pour la première fois  dans la Charte internationale de l'éducation physique et du sport, adoptée en
2.5 Le CIO se félicite du rapprochement intervenu depuis lors entre le CIO,  représentant du Mouvement olympique, et l'unesco, qui résulte de la prise de  conscience de la complémentarité objective de leurs buts et de leurs actions  visant à l'affirmation et à la diffusion des principes humanistes les plus géné-  reux. Un mémorandum de coopération et une déclaration commune ont été signés par  le Directeur général de 1'Unesco et le Président du CIO, complétés ultérieurement  par de nombreuses recommandations qui ont élargi l'aire de collaboration et  d'assistance réciproque, les derniers en date étant les textes adoptés à Moscou  l'année passée par la deuxième Conférence internationale des ministres et hauts  fonctionnaires responsables de l'éducation physique et du sport.
2.6 La présente session de la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco offre l'occa-  sion de faire de nouveaux pas dans la collaboration entre 1'Unesco et le CIO,  entre les autorités publiques et les organisations sportives volontaires natio-  nales. Le CIO invite ces organisations à coopérer plus étroitement avec les gou-  vernements tout en maintenant leur indépendance.
2.7 L'expérience des trois derniers Jeux olympiques a montré que, malgré  certaines tentatives de les subordonner à des intérêts politiques étroits, les  Jeux ont surmonté tout les obstacles et ont continué à progresser, atteignant le  sommet de l'universalité et de la fraternité olympique en 1988 lors des Jeux de  Séoul. Nous considérons donc que le moment est venu pour les Etats membres de
1'Unesco de s'engager, par un document officiel adopté par la Conférence géné-  rale, à mettre les Jeux olympiques à l'abri de toute ingérence politique et  autre, en favorisant ainsi le rassemblement des représentants de la jeunesse  sportive du monde pour célébrer le plus grand festival de l'amitié et de la paix.
2.8 Tout au cours de son existence, le CIO s'est efforcé de défendre le  Mouvement olympique contre tous les dangers qui le menaçaient à un moment ou à  un autre, réussissant chaque fois à surmonter les difficultés. Actuellement, nous  nous trouvons devant un grave danger : le dopage, qui menace le développement au  sport de haute compétition et jette une ombre sur les sportifs qui sont appelés  à servir d'exemples à des centaines de millions de jeunes qui pratiquent le  sport. Depuis plus de 20 ans, le dopage a été combattu sans relâche par le CIO  qui a pris la tête de la lutte contre ce fléau, suivi par les Fédérations spor-  tives internationales et les Comités olympiques nationaux, mettant en place des  structures, des méthodes et des principes d'action valables pour tous. Je puis  vous assurer que le Comité international olympique lutte activement contre le  dopage, avec des actes et pas seulement avec des paroles, comme en témoignent  les sanctions que nous avons prises à l'occasion des Jeux olympiques de Séoul.
2.9 La Charte internationale contre le dopage, adoptée en 1988 à Ottawa par  la Conférence mondiale contre le dopage dans le sport, à été suivie de la recom-  mandation de la deuxième Conférence internationale des ministres et hauts fonc-  tionnaires responsables de l'éducation physique et du sport, qui s'est tenue éga-  lement en 1988 à Moscou, et de l'adoption par les organisations sportives et gou-  vernementales! à l'initiative au CIO, de mesures en vue de poursuivre non seule-  ment les athletes fautifs mais aussi les personnes coupables dans leur entourage,  et également d'effectuer des tests de dépistage entre les compétitions.
2.10 Nous espérons que la Conférence générale de l'llnesco décidera de ren-  forcer les recommandations adressées aux Etats membres afin qu'ils prennent,  avec l'aide au CIO, des mesures appropriées pour juguler par tous les moyens ce  fléau qui nuit gravement à la santé des sportifs, fausse les résultats des  compétitions sportives et corrode la notion de fair-play qui est à la base de  toute pratique sportive.
2.11 Avant de conclure, je voudrais réaffirmer ici la volonté au CI0 et au  Mouvement olympique de renforcer la coopération avec 1'Unesco dans la poursuite  de nos buts communs dans le domaine du sport, au service des nobles idéaux de  l'humanité fondés sur la solidarité, l'amitié et la paix.
2.12 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, per-  mettez-moi de rappeler ici la réponse que j'ai coutume d'apporter à une question  qui m'est souvent posée : qu'est-ce que l'olympisme aujourd'hui ? .Je crois que  l'olympisme aujourd'hui, c'est le sport plus la culture. Aussi est-ce pour unir  encore davantage le sport et la culture que je forme le voeu que l'Unesc0 et le  CIO poursuivent et renforcent leur action commune. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the President of the International Olympic Committee. We  appreciate your kind gesture of support and wish you every success for the  forthcoming Games in Barcelona.
3.2 Before proceeding, 1 would like to remind you that we have ten other  speakers who Will address us this morning. I would again refer you to the  decision we have already adopted that speeches made in the general policy debate  be limited to 20 minutes and that any statement not exceeding 2,500 words may be  appended to the Verbatim records on request. 1 say this because we shall have to  complete our work this morning, there being no afternoon meeting. Thank you for  your kind consideration.
3.3 1 now cal1 upon the Honourable Fay Chung, Minister of Primary and  Secondary Education and head of the delegation of Zimbabwe.
4.1 MS CHUNG (Zimbabwe):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 wish to congratulate you, Mr Anwar  Ibrahim, on your election as President of the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference and assure you of the full support of the Zimbabwean  delegation.
4.2 Permit me also to extend congratulations to a11 who have worked  tirelessly to organize the session. 1 single out the Secretariat staff who  prepared comprehensive documents which we received in good time and Will  facilitate dialogue at the national level. We greatly appreciate a11 your  efforts.
4.3 Mr President, every session of the General Conference cornes as a fresh  opportunity for the Organization to revitalize itself. This session in  particular Will need to find its way to strengthen Member States in the  scientific, technological and cultural fields in the face of serious economic  and structural problems.
4.4 Our congratulations go to the Director-General and his team and  advisers for redefining and redrawing the Organization's activities with such  great imagination.
4.5 The major challenge of this session is to examine the soundness of the  Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and Budget, both of which bave  introduced features new to the General Conference.
4.6 The policy plan tabled is of particular importance because it Will  steer us towards the twenty-first Century. The theme, strategies and programmes  must necessarily not only tackle the serious problems we now face but also chart  out a new path for a better world, a more co-operative and interdependent worla,  a world where the inequalities that mark the relationship between industrialized  and pre-industrial or under-industrialized countries are removed. These  inequalities are based not only on economc inequality built on the foundation of  the unequal exchange of goods but, more importantly, on an unequal distribution  of scientific, technological and managerial skills. One characteristic of highly  developea and industrialized countries is a surfeit of middle and higher level  personnel such as technicians and graduates. Underdeveloped countries, on the  other hand, have limited educational systems which in many cases cannot even  provide universal primary education. Secondary education continues to be the  privilege of a few rather than the right of all, and tertiary education is often  a luxury. Unless a serious and concerted effort is made to equalize these  fundamental inequalities in the twenty-first Century, 1 believe that the  problems that the world faces toaay Will continue to dog us even in the future.
4.7 Unesco is in a unique position to assist Third World countries to  overcome these disparities in an imaginative, practical and concrete way. 1 am  happy to hear that the Director-General aims to focus attention particularly on  Africa in the next six years. This is an opportunity to overcome the problems  created by our colonial past.
4.8 In particular, T believe it essential that Unesco should implement a  clearly worked out strategy to promote and strengthen indigenous research and  training capacities in developing countries. Far too many development programmes  and projects have failed because they have very patronizingly been  conceptualized and imposed from outside rather than being rooted in the  priorities, objectives and cultures of the countries concerned. It is my  contention here that unless and until developing countries have experts and  consultants who are profoundly rooted in and committed to improving the Third  worla situation, we in the Third Worla Will continue to suffer the indignities  of underdevelopment that we suffer today.
4.9 1 am happy to note that the Draft Medium-Term Plan provides the  possibility of building up this indigenous body of research and expertise  through the various programme areas and would urge both Unesco and member  countries to focus on this primary task.
4.10 At this point, Mr President, 1 would like to state my country's support  for the seven major programme areas which adequately encompass the major  concerns of many countries in the immediate future. Moreover, the two transverse  themes of women and youth provide the opportunity to focus on the particular  problems and roles of women and youth in a11 fields of development. In what is  still a male dominated world, the rights and potential of women and youth have  not been fully understood or realized. We welcome this opportunity to enter into  a dialogue of development in these areas. However, 1 note that funding is
328    extremely modest and the focus of transverse themes is not clearly enunciated.  We therefore run the risk of our g00a intentions leading to little concrete  achievement.
4.11 Women cari play a critical role in both development and education, but  their participation in these fields has been seriously constrained by inherited  disabilities in terms of legal restrictions, the lack of educational and  professional opportunities for girls and women, their lack of economic power and  traditional prejudice. In order to move this mountain of disabilities, it is  necessary to focus attention on the position of women and girls and in  particular on the need to engage women fully in the processes of national and  international development. At this particular point in time, there is need for  research on women's issues SO that policies related to women's positions and  problems are based on knowledge rather than on prejudice and guesswork. 1 hope  and expect that the theme of women Will be translated into specific programmes  and projects in the near future.
4.12 Mr President, 1 am happy to announce my delegation's full support for  Major Programme Area 1, which places emphasis on the eradication of illiteracy,  formally and informally. The Director-General deserves commendation for paying  heed to the wish expressed by Member States at the twenty-fourth session of the  General Conference that a concerted effort should be made to mobilize  international activity directed at eradicating illiteracy. This proposa1 is a  breakthrough of great significance. Since its inception, Unesco has always  proclaimed education a right for every human being, but it is a great challenge  to corne up with steps that guarantee quality education to the whole of  humanity. The millions of illiterates the worla over constitute a vast  reservoir of under-utilized human potential for development.
4.13 The emphasis on quality primary education is a very welcome ancillary  to the eradication of illiteracy. Primary education is necessarily the  foundation for a11 further education as well as for development. TO neglect  primary education is self-defeating. Primary education cari and must be of the  highest quality possible in our circumstances, and we look forward to closer  co-operation with Unesco and with other Member States in achieving these noble  aims.
4.14 Zimbabwe fully endorses the need to explore with urgency the  possibility of locating additional funds that coula be allocated to reinforcing  priority activities as referred to in paragraph 132 of the Recommendations of  the Executive Board on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 (25 C/6),  namely: secondary, technical and vocational education programmes; the  development of science education at a11 levels with a bias towards developing  countries; support for the World Decade for Cultural Development activities; and  the CO-ordination of global research activities in the social and human sciences.
4.15 My delegation fully supports and endorses the text of paragraph 49 of  the Recommendations and Proposed Modifications Formulated by the Executive Board  concerning the Draft Medium-Term Plan and Administrative Plan for 1990-1995
(25 C/108). In this paragraph the Executive Board highlights the need for an  action plan aimed at strengthening and modernizing the communication  capabilities of developing countries through the development of infrastructures,  training of personnel and media-related education. This position is pragmatic  as well as responsible. Mr President, it is also imperative that the  Organization respond swiftly to demonstrate its genuineness in bringing about a  balance in regard to the flow of information. The Executive Board's proposa1 to  amena paragraphs 271-274 of document 25 C/4 should allay fears of critics  suspicious of Unesco's intentions in the field of information. The Secretariat  however, appears to be operating on the premiss that we are a11 at the same  level of development. We expect to see a special bias towards Third World  countries, whose programmes have a greater need of support.
4.16 Following my country's election to the Intergovernmental Council for  the General Information Programme (PGI) at the close of the twenty-fourth  session and its subsequent election to the chairmanship of the Council, we have  continued to work even more closely with the Programme in developing and  strengthening the national information infrastructure which aims at facilitating  the widest possible access to information for a11 our people, particularly rural  communities where literacy and development programmes are most urgent. We are  very conscious of the fact that national development cannot be effected without  an adequate information structure. It is therefore my hope that the new  transversal role of this Programme Will provide the essential support and  back-up service for the major programme areas and for the development of the  science and technology information services which are SO essential to research  and development.
4.17 Intergovernmental co-operation, though still of humble proportions, has  begun within the Non-Aligned Movement. The assistance given to Zimbabwe and  other Front Line-States by the Movement is aimed at developing mass media  capabilities which cari contain South Africa's deliberate propaganda. This  co-operation serves as testimony that the infrastructure is regarded as a  prerequisite for the establishment of aw effective information policy. 1  challenge Unesco to play a more eminent part in reinforcing these efforts.
4.18 Distinguished delegates, for the past two years Unesco has been  operating under a pledge to redirect and restructure the Organization into a  more task-orientated one. The Director-General accepted an undertaking to  introduce structural and administrative changes which would make Unesco more  operational and democratic. Decentralization of the Headquarters  decision-making hub was identified as an important reform measure with  practical results in the field. Mr President, 1 speak as a representative of a  group of countries that are custodians of the recently commissioned Unesco  Subregional Office in Harare. We welcome the policy statement made by Deputy  Director-General for Management, Mr Sharma, on 24 July 1989 in Harare on the  occasion of the inauguration of this office. Unesco assured us that it would be  elevated to a fully integrated office offering the Member States of southern  Africa access to the full range of Unesco's programmes. But in the Draft  Programme and Budget nothing has yet changea to reflect that decentralization of  established posts and of programme activities to the subregion.
4.19 Mr President, the whole of southern Africa is anxiously watching the  Director-General's moves to strengthen our field office so that Unesco's  approved programmes cari begin to be self-evident in that subregion. 1 reiterate,  Mr President, that it is the speedy implementation of intentions and promises  that is at stake in this issue. The subregion is eagerly waiting for action on  Unesco's part to make this multisectoral office a reality. The time to act is  now, otherwise the credibility of Unesco is at stake.
4.20 One other area of concern to Zimbabwe, and indeed to the rest of  Africa, is the appalling rate of Africa's advancement in the field of science  and technology for development, with a bias towards appropriate technology.  Again, souna plans and objectives have been outlined in Unesco documents and  forums but the rate of implementation of these intentions and plans does not  reflect the urgency and seriousness that these programmes deserve. 1 urge a11 my  colleagues from Africa to give more thought to the reasons why we are making  such insignificant progress in the area of scientific and technological  advancement despite our membership of Unesco. 1 urge Unesco to take definite  steps to remedy this situation. We need to assess our efforts to correct the  situation. We have a11 suffered as a result of the unsystematic importation of  technology and scientific models that may have little relevance to our  environments. Africa has adequate scientists to form a network and the nucleus  of a think-tank for solutions to Africa's problems, provided African governments  and Unesco give these intellectuals the full support and recognition they SO  much deserve. Political Will has been known to yield great results, SO African  governments are called upon to give priority to research and development in  science and technology and to provide adequate funding for these activities.  Unesco should also do more to assist African countries to develop their science  and technology. Far too little emphasis is placed on strengthening the research  bases needed for development, and yet research is an absolute prerequisite for  a11 fields of development.
4.21 Mr President, Zimbabwe also welcomes yet another of the Executive  Board's recommendations (document 25 c/6, paragraph 130(b)), proposing that the  Participation Programme be increased by $4.1 million to cater for exceptional  circumstances requiring Unesco funding in Member States. This Will serve as a  welcome reinforcement to a programme that has proved very popular with Member  States because of its ability to respond to unique needs.
4.22 Of particular concern to us is the still entrenched, inhuman and  degrading apartheid system in South Africa. It is pleasing to note that in the  proposed special project the Organization unflinchingly supports efforts to  eliminate apartheid. At the same time, there is need not only to counter this  Nazi philosophy of apartheid, but to give concrete forms of support, both  through Unesco and from Member States, to those South Africans waging a battle  to overcome the system of apartheid in education, science, technology,  information and culture. Educational deprivation is one of the most patent and  conspicuous forms of oppression, and it is incumbent upon Unesco and Member  States to provide South Africans who are battling against apartheid as much  support in these fields as possible.
4.23 The Front-Line States are constantly subjected to the destructive and  destablizing strategies of the apartheid regime. Many of our neighbours have had
330    their school sys tems almost completely destroyed by the attacks of South  African-backed forces, and this in a context where millions of people have been  forced to leave their homes, and hundreds of thousands have been killed. In  reminding the General Conference of these realities of our times and of our  subregion, 1 would like to appeal for your assistance to a11 those countries  most affected by apartheid, namely, South Africa itself, Namibia, Angola and  Mozambique.
4.24 In conclusion, 1 would like to register my optimism with regard to the  future of the Organization as the reform process is accelerated. The resilience  and imagination SO far displayed by the Director-General in restructuring the  programme under difficult conditions Will need to be intensified and extended to  the funding and management of resources to execute the programme. We confidently  expect that the Organization Will be firmly on the new road to recovery. Thank  you.
5. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Zimbabwe and invite  H.E. Mr Salifou Alidou, Minister of Middle and Higher Education, President of  the National Commission and head of the delegation of Benin to take the floor.
6.1 M. ALIDOU (Bénin) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d'abord vous féliciter de votre  brillante élection à la tête de cette assemblée. Je me joindrai aux orateurs qui  m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour exprimer ma conviction que sous votre direc-  tion, la présente session de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation abou-  tira à des conclusions à la hauteur des exigences nouvelles de notre monde en  perpétuelle mutation.
6.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  au Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  ministres et chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables  délégués, la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco nous  offre, une fois encore, l'occasion d'analyser ensemble les acquis enregistrés  par notre Organisation commune durant un exercice biennal et les stratégies à  mettre en oeuvre pour consolider les idéaux de progrès et de paix dans les  esprits de tous les hommes. Cependant, elle présente une originalité : elle va  permettre d'adopter le troisième Plan à moyen terme qui doit définir pour  l'horizon 1990-1995 les bases de référence de l'action de 1'Unesco. Il s'agit là  d'une tâche mobilisatrice par excellence, car la qualité au document final  conditionnera la crédibilité de notre Organisation sur la scène internationale  et sa capacité d'accomplir pleinement toute la mission que lui assigne son Acte  constitutif dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de  la communication entre les hommes.
6.3 Monsieur le Président, il est heureux que les solutions aux grands  conflits mondiaux se recherchent aujourd'hui, on le constate, par la voie de la  diplomatie et des négociations. Toutefois,  lieux d'affrontement militaires localisés,  on note encore un peu partout des  heureusement moins pour des idéaux  d'expansionnisme et de grandeur comme par le passé,  le droit élémentaire à l'existence,  et plutôt pour faire valoir  avec tous ses corollaires de besoins : besoin  de sécurité, et aussi besoin fondamental de s'alimenter,  vêtir,  de se soigner, de se  de se loger et de s'instruire. La satisfaction de ces besoins devient de  plus en plus difficile dans les limites de l'espace physique historiquement  attribué à chaque communauté organisée dont l'effectif croît plus vite que les  ressources disponibles. Aussi naît-il entre les groupes humains une compétition  naturelle pour l'espace et les ressources vitales,  les moins favorisées du monde. Dans cette épreuve,  notamment dans les régions  on comprend combien est grande  la tentation,  leur volonté  pour les nations convaincues de leur avantage militaire, d'imposer  à d'autres nations.
6.4 Devant ces menaces permanentes à la paix, la mission fondamentale de  l'Unesc0, d'élever les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes, est plus que  jamais d'actualité. A cet effet, il m’est agréable de vous féliciter, Monsieur  le Directeur général, pour l'initiative que vous avez prise d'organiser en juin
1989, le Congrès international sur la paix dans l'esprit des hommes, en liaison  avec la Fondation Houphouët-Boigny. Il me plaît également de remercier les auto-  rités de la République de Côte d'Ivoire pour leur contribution décisive à cette  entreprise dont tous les participants ont salué le succès éclatant.
6.5 La Conférence générale de notre Organisation se doit, au cours de sa  présente session, d'étudier et de définir les meilleurs moyens pour la mise en  oeuvre des recommandations contenues dans la Déclaration de Yamoussoukro. Mais  pour que la paix soit durable, il faut que les contraintes objectives et subjec-  tives qui sont à l'origine de sa remise en cause disparaissent à jamais. C’est
331    pourquoi ma délégation salue, une fois encore, le concept de développement  durable adopté par la Commission mondiale pour l'environnement et le développe-  ment, tel qu'il est repris par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies dans la  Résolution 42/187, ainsi que l'approche spécifique qu'a développée 1'Unesco à ce  propos, car, si la satisfaction de nos besoins matériels et moraux du présent  doit compromettre la capacité des générations montantes à répondre aux leurs, il  est clair que les menaces à la paix vont se multiplier dans le futur.
6.6 Notre Organisation a donc encore beaucoup à faire pour confirmer la  place qui lui revient dans la famille des Nations Unies, en matière de protection  de l'environnement et de ses ressources, en liaison avec l'Union internationale  pour la conservation de la nature et de ses ressources et le Fonds mondial pour  la nature. A cet égard, nous nous félicitons de la participation active de
1'Unesco aux manifestations qui ont marqué à Fontainebleau le quarantième anni-  versaire de l'Union, ainsi que de la visite de travail au Président au Fonds  mondial pour la nature au Siège de l'Organisation en 1988. La contribution  majeure de 1'Unesco à cette oeuvre salutaire sera de consolider les bases scien-  tifiques, éducationnelles et socioculturelles de la protection de l'environnement  et de ses ressources.
6.7 Pour réussir dans cette action, notre Organisation dispose de plus de
30 années d'expérience et de toutes les structures requises : il s'agit notamment  du Programme intergouvernemental sur l'homme et la biosphère, du Programme hydro-  logique international, au Programme international de corrélation géologique et  des programmes de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, avec les  comités nationaux de ces différents programmes installés dans la plupart des pays  membres. Si les aspects scientifiques et éducationnels de la protection au patri-  moine naturel mondial et de la gestion rationnelle des ressources sont bien maî-  trisés par l'Unesc0, en collaboration avec le Programme des Nations Unies pour  l'environnement et le Programme international d'éducation relative à l'environ-  nement, par contre la dimension socioculturelle de l'environnement ne me semble  pas suffisamment intégrée aux programmes scientifiques actuels. C'est ici le lieu  d'insister sur l'urgente nécessité d'associer aux programmes scientifiques inter-  nationaux de 1'Unesco les éléments socioculturels indispensables à l'appropria-  tion des résultats par les communautés nationales, seul moyen de pérenniser  l'action de notre Organisation en faveur au développement et de la paix.
6.8 C'est dire que la recherche de solutions durables aux problèmes du  développement socio-économique des nations pour la défense de la paix universelle  ne doit pas être le monopole des seuls personnels de la recherche. S'il est vrai  que les aspects fondamentaux des études et la coordination des activités doivent  revenir aux spécialistes, dans toutes les branches de connaissance, il est éga-  lement vrai que toutes les sensibilités nationales et internationales doivent  être mobilisées, en particulier les groupements confessionnels, les associations  de jeunes, de femmes et au troisième âge, les personnes handicapées et les  couches les plus défavorisées de la population. Car l'action pour le développe-  ment durable et la paix universelle ne doit pas occulter les problèmes urgents  dont la solution diligente conditionne le succès de l'action de 1'Unesco.
6.9 Telles sont les idées-forces qu'il m'est agréable de souligner pour  montrer que la dernière décennie qui sépare l'humanité du XXIe siècle doit être  mise à profit par la communauté internationale pour élaborer les armatures scien-  tifiques et techniques de la société de demain. Notre Organisation se doit  d'amener les peuples à affirmer les valeurs humaines qui leur sont propres et de  conduire les Nations à sceller la communion des cultures et y ancrer les fonde-  ments subjectifs et objectifs de la protection et de l'exploitation rationnelle  de l'environnement et de ses ressources, gage au développement socio-économique  équilibré des nations et de la construction des défenses d'une paix durable dans  l'esprit des hommes.
6.10 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délé-  gués, permettez-moi maintenant de présenter mes vives félicitations à tout le  personnel du Secrétariat pour les grands efforts déployés pour établir avec  concision et clarté les documents 25 C/4 et 25 C/5 contenant respectivement le  Projet de plan à moyen terme (1998-1995) et le Projet de programme et budget
(1990-1991). La délégation de la République populaire du Bénin apprécie particu-  lièrement la facilité et l'élégance avec lesquelles les préoccupations des  parties prenantes à 1'Unesco et les décisions de la Conférence générale et au  Conseil exécutif sont intégrées auxdits documents, tant au niveau de la politique  générale qu'à celui de la stratégie d'exécution au programme.
6.11 Je note avec satisfaction le renforcement des relations de 1'Unesco avec  les autres organisations du système des Nations Unies, particulièrement avec le  PNUD, la Banque mondiale, le FNUAP et l'Unicef. L'augmentation substantielle de
12 % des crédits extrabudgétaires accordés entre 1987 et 1988, notamment de la
9  part au PNUD et au FNUAP, est de bon augure pour l'avenir de l'action opération-  nelle de notre Organisation commune.
6.12 Sur le plan de la politique intérieure de l'Unesc0,  féliciter de constater que la stratégie de  nous pouvons nous  Conférence générale à  rigueur budgétaire décidée par la  sa vingt-quatrième session pour l'exercice 1987-1988 a  apporté les résultats escomptes. L'expérience peut et doit être poursuivie, mais,  pour éviter des effets indésirables sur l'efficacité du Secrétariat, il convient  de simplifier notablement les pratiques administratives pour permettre aux fonc-  tionnaires de se consacrer pleinement à la mise en oeuvre du programme. Quoi  qu'il en soit, le pourcentage de postes vacants ne saurait dépasser le taux de
5 % où il se situe actuellement sans compromettre le fonctionnement équilibré  des services.
6.13 La délégation de la République populaire du Bénin soutient dans leur  principe les mesures de réforme au sein du Secrétariat que le Directeur général  a engagées. Tout en étant fermes et assurées, ces mesures doivent cependant être  flexibles, en vue de respecter les spécificités fonctionnelles des structures de  l'Organisation. De même, la réforme du Secrétariat et la rigueur budgétaire ne  doivent pas sacrifier la politique de décentralisation développée par 1'Unesco  tout au long de son existence. Bien au contraire, c'est l'occasion de redynamiser  les unités décentralisées selon des modalités appropriées, et d'en faire des  structures solides à l'image au Siège.
6.14 Monsieur le Président, l'analyse des documents 25 C/4 et 25 C/5 montre  également qu'un effort louable a été fait par le Directeur général dans le sens  de la concentration du programme que les Etats membres souhaitent depuis plu-  sieurs années. La réduction très substantielle des volumes, la clarté, la logique  et le réalisme, sont quelques qualités que l'on peut associer spontanément à ces  documents et qui sont des atouts et le gage de l'accessibilité au grand public  des objectifs et de l'action de 1'Unesco.
6.15 Malgré l'ouverture des champs d'action sur des activités pour lesquelles  notre Organisation dispose d’un mandat international, dans des domaines tradi-  tionnellement couverts par d'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies,  le Projet de plan à moyen terme a su regrouper les activités en 25 programmes et  projets mobilisateurs, contre 55 programmes au titre au deuxième Plan à moyen  terme. Ce travail prodigieux de composition et de synthèse a le grand mérite de  di.stinguer pour chaque programme les objectifs spécifiques, les stratégies y  conduisant, la responsabilité des Etats membres et celle du Secrétariat.
6.16 Ma délégation est particulièrement satisfaite des propositions concer-  nant les domaines centraux de l'éducation, de la science et de la technologie,  de la culture, de la communication, des sciences sociales et humaines, des stra-  tégies de développement et de la paix. Nous souhaitons vivement que, au moment  de l'exécution au Plan, les programmes transversaux et les projets mobilisateurs  soient traités en étroite liaison avec les champs majeurs de programme. C'est  dire que le Directeur général devra veiller spécialement à la coordination des  activités intersectorielles pour l'exécution correcte au Plan et la réalisation  effective des attentes des Etats membres et de la communauté internationale.
6.17 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour le premier exercice biennal du  Plan est, à mon sens, remarquable par la juste priorité faite aux activités qui  conditionnent le succès au Plan à moyen terme et la capacité de notre Organisa-  tion de relever, dans ses domaines de compétence, les trois grands défis contem-  porains que sont la protection de l'environnement, le développement et la paix.  L'accent mis sur la formation des hommes traduit la ferme volonté de 1'Unesco de  résoudre le problème des ressources humaines sans lesquelles aucun progrès véri-  table ne peut être enregistré dans les Etats membres.
6.18 Certains programmes me paraissent particulièrement pertinents au regard  des préoccupations actuelles de la communauté internationale. On pourrait men-  tionner dans ce cadre les programmes suivants : le programme 1.2 et le pro-  gramme II.1 dédiés respectivement à l'éducation pour le XXIe siècle et la science  et la technologie au service du développement, notamment en ce qui concerne les  actions préventives contre le SIDA et l'abus des drogues . le champ majeur de  programme III et le projet mobilisateur 2 consacrés spécialement à la mise en  oeuvre du programme d'action de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel ;  le champ majeur de programme VI et le programme transversal sur les études pros-  pectives qui concrétisent l'apport de 1'Unesco aux stratégies de développement  durable des Nations Unies.
6.19 Dans le domaine des propositions budgétaires, ma délégation prend note  avec satisfaction du relèvement des crédits du Programme de participation et du  bon équilibre réalisé entre les crédits affectés aux fonctions principales de    programme, en rapport avec l'impact socioculturel desdites fonctions. Il convient  d'insister cependant sur le fait que cette base d'appréciation de l'importance  des programmes reste défavorable aux activités de recherche, d'innovation et de  création scientifiques sur lesquels 1'Unesco demeure la seule Organisation au  système des Nations Unies à avoir compétence. La ventilation des crédits au  niveau des actions de programme constitue, sans aucun doute, une innovation  heureuse autorisant une juste flexibilité dans l'exécution du programme au niveau  des paragraphes.
6.20 Au total, la délégation de la République populaire du Bénin apporte son  ferme soutien au Projet de plan à moyen terme pour la période de 1990-1995 et à  tous les programmes et projets proposés par le Secrétariat de notre Organisation  au titre de la première tranche biennale dudit Plan. A cet égard, il m'est  agréable de renouveler mes félicitations à toute l'équipe au Secrétariat pour  avoir su prendre en compte les opinions de toutes les parties prenantes à  l'Unesc0, exprimées à l'occasion de la nécessaire consultation des parties,  organisée en 1987, les orientations données par la Conférence générale à sa  vingt-quatrième session et les résolutions et recommandations pertinentes au  Conseil exécutif.
6.21 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, je ne saurais terminer mes  propos sans mentionner la responsabilité individuelle et collective des Etats  membres, des Membres associés, des organisations internationales gouvernementales  et non gouvernementales, et des amis de 1'Unesco dans le succès au troisième Plan  à moyen terme, et l'affirmation de la position et au rôle de notre Organisation  commune sur la scène internationale. L'enjeu est grand, et je reste convaincu  que le Directeur général saura, plus encore que par le passé, s'appuyer pour  mener l'action sur les commissions nationales, la Fédération mondiale des asso-  ciations, centres et Clubs Unesco, les unités décentralisées et toutes les  structures internes et externes prêtes à contribuer à l'oeuvre universelle de  compréhension des peuples, de développement des nations et de construction d'une  paix durable. Je vous remercie.
7. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Benin and now cal1 upon  H.E. Mr Syed Chulam Mustafa Shah, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Pakistan.
8.1 Mr SHAH (Pakistan):  Mr President, Director-General, members of the Executive Board, Your  Excellencies, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, prior to inflicting my  speech on you, which 1 propose doing very soon, it is my pleasant duty and  honour to congratulate our President on being elected to this office. 1 also  wish to greet the Director-General, whom 1 met in Geneva in December of last  year, when 1 developed a friendship with him. 1 am glaa to say that an eminent  predecessor of his, Dr Julian Huxley, was a dear friend of mine. You must  realize that 1 am an old man and have lost many of my friends. 1 well remember  that on the day when Mr Bhutto, our late Prime Minister, was executed, our  Secretary-General, a poet of considerable merit, wrote a few lines which he  recently sent to me and which 1 hope to publish in one of the famous  English-language journals of our country. 1 am grateful for this kind of  writing, but you must redlize that at that time we were a very dejected nation.  Now 1 think 1 haa better gallop through this speech which 1 have to make.
8.2 Mr President, 1 am grateful to you for this opportunity to address the  General Conference of Unesco. We are glaa to note that, in spite of its  difficulties and problems, Unesco has now achieved a place of honour and hope in  the educated and thinking circles of the world of scholars and the community of  nations. As a representative of Pakistan 1 bring you the greetings of our  illustrious Prime Minister and the kindly feelings of our peoples towards this  Organization. The Prime Minister of Pakistan today admirably represents the old  universal idea of Rousseau's general Will and Solon's example.
8.3 Pakistan is a phenomenal country. It has passed through many political  oscillations and disasters, and experiences both pleasant and unpleasant,  peradventure mostly unpleasant. During the last 11 years social confusion,  chaos and ad-hoc policies in national life had overtaken education too. During  a11 these years, education, with a11 the noise we heard, had been least attended  to, and with a11 the professions of ideology, the nation had lost its sense of  direction and stood divided and very nearly dismembered. Nothing had been done  to develop and strengthen the foundations of nationhood. Vague and vociferous  lectures and the political rigmarole of military regimes were impediments to our  becoming a nation. Talking and braggart generals are always dangerous. Bertrand  Russell said that generals had no sense of history. G.K. Chesterton once said:  '1 would hate to see a man in uniform make a speech - more SO if it is a g00a
9  speech'. This poor nation, which was on its way to unity and stability in the  early 1970s and was functioning under a unanimously agreed Constitution, was  suddenly exposed to the vagaries and caprice of bureaucratie administrators and  military rulers, in which politicians had no place, while those who stayed with  the military had a tarnished reputation as turncoats. The unrepresentative  character of institutions in the country became a curse. Education was the  biggest victim of autocratie headlessness: this was Pakistan's most destructive  decade in education, manners and reflection.
8.4 During the last decade or SO of military rule we witnessed the  burgeoning and strengthening of fissiparous tendencies in every part of Pakistan  society. Education, which should have made Pakistan society and country united  and respected, had been made a victim of evil forces, mad philosophies and  lunatic orders. The conception of classes, socio-economic élitism and false  distinctions haa been imprudently and impudently planted in a Muslim society and  the result was that in education too, as in our socio-economic life, the rich  were getting richer and the poor, poorer. In this proliferation of  pseudo-ideologies it was classroom instruction and the profession of teaching in  general which suffered the most. This is why 1 have entitled my speech: 'A  teacher at the crossroads of history'.
8.5 Institutions and universities were closea, examinations aelayed and  irregularities in education became rife. Bureaucratie administrators and  military men issued their foolish commands, encouraging nepotism and ethnism.  Education was handled with military impetuousity, roughness and nonchalance. The  military and the bureaucracy were dumb and blind to the history and the  realities of our Pakistan society, and the very foundations of Pakistan were  sapped by fibs which passed for philosophy and by pontifications and foolish  practices, policies, processes and decisions. Students were made to fight each  other and take one another's lives: this haa become a phenomenon a11 over the  country. The exhibition of lethal weapons became a feature of institutions of  higher education. Unions were banned or disbanded and a11 healthy educational  processes and activities were brought to a standstill, if not made impossible.  It was declared, to our national shame and disgrace, that Pakistan, in spite of  its talented men and women, outstanding in education, literature, thought the  arts and erudition - men and women of the finest material - had become a country  in which illiteracy was on the increase. Children after their primary education  were relapsing into illiteracy. Our standing as a nation of any standard,  consequence and character was defiled and our image was beginning to appear  sullied beyond repair and belief.
8.6 The Pakistan People's Party had struggled for a democratic order and  for a constitutional government throughout this decade of despotism. Our Party  is committed to a democratic, classless and egalitarian Muslim society. Opening  UP and clearing the way to advancement and the promotion of education and  knowledge, and providing opportunities and facilities by every available or  possible means for talents to grow and merit to be recognized in everyday life.  Thank God the leadership of the Party and the country is today in the hands of  one of the finest educated and best trained of leaders, who has a place in the  hearts of men and women. Her political struggle and persona1 sacrifices are an  indelible part of our history. Miraculously Pakistan is the first Muslim  country which has a woman as Prime Minister.
8.7 It is the nature and realities of our society which should have guided  us in our problems, policies and processes. Our children were exposed to  unhealthy, superficial and even injurious knowledge, information and distorted  historical facts. Small children were subjected to inaccurate, tendentious and  jaundiced learning and were given books of no relevance to them in their daily  lives. They grew up and developed as foreigners in their own land. Centralism  haa killed initiative and innovation. Teachers were left helpless and had no  place and no say in the affairs of education. An undereducated and arrogant  bureaucracy and the military were demolishing and destroying the very  foundations and values of Pakistan society. Pakistan was exposed to the dangers  and omens typical of the post-war years in Europe and the United States, best  represented in the last address of President Eisenhower on the  'military-industrial complex' and in the writings of Rose Macaulay and many  other post-war authors and thinkers who cautioned and warned against the  insidious and mortal social conditions endemic in global conflict and the  complexities arising out of military dominante in the framing of national  policies. The soldier and the civilian were like different classes of people,  pitted against each other. This was a phenomenon which 1 witnessed as a student  in England. Many people wrote about it and 1 think it was what happened'to us.
8.8 It is the teachers who should be intimately associated with educational  reconstruction and they should have found and been given a place of honour. No  values cari burgeon in a bureaucratie order and nothing solid cari be achieved
335    under military dragooning. Pakistan is a federation and every aspect of itS  life should have been federated and decentralized. Education became a victim of  foolish principles and processes and was caught up in the shackles of  bureaucracy. Our students had no opportunity to grow in their intimate and  immediate environment. They should have been taught in the context of their  direct experience and by the simplest aids, but they were not trained to develop  a sense of observation and an enquiring mind. Our present inheritance is nothing  but priestly exaggeration and the mutilation of history. Boys were given books,  the text of which was totally unrelated to the realities of their daily lives  and surroundings; they are being robbed of their intelligence, national  commitment and a purposeful education.
8.9 Pakistan is a Federal Republic and its education must be freed from  dictatorial practices and authoritarianism. In the new political atmosphere of  Pakistan, the Pakistan People's Party has its own commitments and Will make  education entirely the responsibility of the federated units, with the Federal  Government exercising only a co-ordinating and advisory capacity. Top-heavy  educational administration, remote control, lack of confidence in teachers, and  lack of a sense of proportion in the words and deeds of men in authority and in  the content of books and the framing of curricula had steadily destroyed  instruction and education, making us an aimless nation.
8.10 The content of primary education must emphasize the home, the local  environment, immediate geography and elementary history. It must include games  and sports to arouse the children's interest, to create an urge and taste for  education and to develop kinship, acquaintance and unity among them.
8.11 We think a11 secondary education must be aimed at technical instruction  and should provide assistance to meet the needs of life and earning a living.  Secondary education must be characterized by diversification of subjects and  disciplines and variety of topics, to suit both children and their parents.  Guidance and counselling must be an intrinsic part of education in its middle  stage. The use of indigenous materials and paraphernalia is our last hope in  classroom instruction, demonstration and experimentation.
8.12 Al1 education must be properly regulated and private effort permitted,  but under strict rules regarding the charging of fees, the employment of  teachers and the establishment of curricula. Technical and trade education must  be given high emphasis and there should be opportunities for children to  continue or change their course of studies at particular stages, depending upon  their capacities and inclinations. We have decided that a11 industrial  establishments and large-scale commercial and trade organizations must be made  to start educational facilities of their own. They should enjoy tax exemption on  such expenditure. These institutions must teach general subjects but place  greater emphasis on those fields of technology in which the industry is engaged.  Priority in admission to such institutions Will go to the children of the  workers of these establishments.
8.13 The present meaningless and obsolete distinctions among schools must be  done away with and ali secondary schools must aim at the employability of  students following this stage of education. Children should do things with their  hands and every student from class 8 to 10 should learn in the classroom or  outside it technical skills which could be useful to them at home. In the  present day age of mechanization such skills are a sine qua no-n of normal living.
8.14 Modern conditions, advancing mechanization and the spread of  technological facilities in rural areas necessitate a knowledge of eletricity,  motor mechanics, plumbing, carpentry, smithing and SO on. White collar job  preference and aims have to be looked into but manual work at the secondary  stage is our educational and sociological need. Before joining class 11 or  before going to college a11 boys must be made to do one year's national service  or work for one year in the fields or teaching in schools. Girls cari be trained  in home economics and cari go in for teaching or nursing.
8.15 The stage of university and college education in Pakistan today is not  only saddening and maddening but is aggravated by an unnecessary proliferation  of institutions and unhealthy institutional tendencies which have reduced the  standard of education and discipline among both teachers and the taught. The  restrictions under which students and teachers are working have only resulted in  greater sociological and educational chaos. We believe in maintaining the status  of teachers and in their participation in educational programmes and that they  should have certain freedom from unnecessary controls. They must be trusted and  the spirit of discipline and social responsibility consolidated. Police methods  in education Will not do, and Will not work. We have seen the consequences of  coercion and mishandling of universities and colleges.
8.10 We are trying to emphasize the status of teachers in our education  system and expecting serious professional commitment to youth and to reading  habits from them. By merely fiddling with their service life, by giving  accelerated promotions by advancing increments, titles and awards we are not  doing education any good. We should like to see teachers of scholarship and  academic renown play their rightful part in the whole gamut of administration  and government and in the political and diplomatie life of the nation. They  should be represented on a11 professional and technical advisory bodies and  commissions where their ideas and discussions Will give them wider scope in  their work and greater recognition. Even the planning needs should be met with  the assistance of teachers. Lt is only by doing SO that we cari givc value to the  teaching profession. Teachers serve to form an integral part of the  nation-building process and institutional thinking. The value of a teacher,  especially in the institutions of higher learning, must be determined by his  scholarship and his intellectual and literary production - they have to set an  example of what they teach and preach. I am reminded of the great words of my  friend Dr Malik, the first President of the United Nations General Assembly, who  said that unless a teacher enjoyed the authority and nobility of scholarship he  would neither be believed, nor respected, nor followed, nor obeyed. The  teacher-student relationship is a tender and sacred phenomenon which, except  perhaps for the parental relationship, no other cari excel.
8.17 We should like to stress the regular functioning of student unions  which are the main source, course and recourse of the country's future  leadership. By shackling and binding students in fetters, by coercing them or  censoring the process of thinking, we would be enslaving the nation and actually  encouraging reaction in thinking. If we enslave students we cannot expect brave  leadership or personality growth and development. The guidance and control of  unions should be the responsibility of individual institutions - the  universities and their faculties. Controlling students by force has only left us  with the horrible spectacle of bloodshed. Morality and scholarship are mainly  the students' own responsibility and that of their parents; and their commitment  to the community and the nation should be the only force governing relations  between the students and teachers and the government. Laying penalties on  parents for the delinquency of their children is being seriously debated in  Conservative England, and their appears to be legislation to this effect on the  anvil. The Government should have a moral and legal base to command respect. We  must respect students' unions as we respect tcachers' associations and  university autonomy. Al1 education should be a matter of welfare, good Will and  confidence, otherwise it Will not function. Sometimes 1 think our liberality in  educational principles and processes has gone too far and achievcd nothing.  Sometimes 1 am constrained to reflect on the need for the application of  old-fashioned theory and practice and a bit of sturdy discipline in our  institutions of education.
8.18 Pakistan is a multilingual country. The indigenous languages of a11 the  provinces are at various stages of development, but we cannot forget the  historical, international, technological and commercial utility of English. In  spite of a11 the local linguistic chauvinism which has recontly spread its  tentacles we cannot possibly la9 behind in technological and scientific  advancement and research without emphasis on English. The issue of language and  of the medium of instruction, we are now glad to say, is governed by the  principles of reality and by the processes of technoloqical changes and  advances. The issue of language and of the medium of instruction has its  ramifications in other fields but we hope that many years of disillusionment  have taught us that, by sticking to the impractical, we create not only  socio-political but also economic confusion and confusion in trade. The  processes of employment are closely inter-connected with the learning of trades  and modern electronic inventions. Our Party and Government are engaged in  reviewing and reassessing the whole situation in the context of the confusion  created by the military regime for 11 years and also by the aftereffects of  earlier martial laws. Educated unemployment is the gift they have lcft to us.  Education remains a basic issue to be tackled after our original constitution is  restored in its entirety and legal institutions begin to function with normalcy  and assurance. Till then in university education decisions are bound to give  sparks which Will engulf every aspect of national lifc as WC have seen to our  bitter experience of 1959, 1963 and 1980.
8.19 Lord Bryce said that the remedy for the ills of democracy is more  democracy, but 1 equally believe in the axiomatic corollary that the remedies of  deficiencies and drawbacks in education cari only be satisfactorily met by more  education. Nothing is more powerful and effective, a greater sociological  equalizer or a more hopeful process than education. A classless society must  guarantee classless education. We have a lot to learn from the expcrience of  England from 1945 to 1988. The egalitarian society that Rngland, through its
337    Education Act in 1945, tried to create by regulating the affairs of public  schools and student admissions in them should serve as a guidance for us.
8.20 Ladies and gentlemen, an alarming phenomenon, even a dilemma that we  have to contend with, is the abnormal and disturbing growth rate of our  population. We face paucity of funds and a surging population and, whatever  budgetary provisions are made, they are consumed by our population growth. In  matters of advancement in education, we are left high and dry like Alice in her  Wonderland - we run and run, but we still stay where we are.
8.21 The one factor which impedes our advance - and sometimes one has the  impression that it even militates against and nullifies educational effort and  growth - is the exorbitant and almost irrational and dismaying factor of the  increase in our defence expenditure. We are the victims of disastrous  geo-political conditions which you know SO well. We have lived under a risk of  frequent martial laws, and we are today clearing away the debris of a history of  military administration and government. Democratic and sociological priorities  and preferences we cari ignore only at our peril as a nation. We have paid  heavily before this for lopsided and obtuse thinking and painful conceptions of  history. During the last 40 years we have moved in terms of time four years  forward and 10 years backward. As a popular and representative government, we  have enormous problems.
8.22 We have dared to take and taken the first steps in spite of the  constraicts of our budgetary allocations for education. We have raised the  educational allocation from 2 per cent of our Gross National Product to nearly
4 per cent. It is the first clear financial commitment of this nature by any  Government of Pakistan since 1947. It is a great satisfaction in the context of  national phenomena and compulsions that we have taken the first bold steps and  risks. It is our aim to carry our educated classes in general and teachers in  particular with us in this common and imperative national programme and need.
8.23 Ladies and gentlemen, it is a disconcerting phenomenon that some of the  countries which have historically, morally and materially a commitment of work,  association and financial standing are sadly enough staying out of this great  Organization whose main purpose is to help advance human values and endeavours.  What a misfortune that the countries which claim to be the cradles of progress  and advancement, humanitarianism and peace, should be staying away from this  body. For them to stay out of Unesco for any reason, grievance or compulsion, Or  due to anger, is tragic. Unesco is an essential part of the United Nations and  its pride; why be dissociated from it? Unesco enjoys universal status and iS  concerned with education and the scientific and cultural advancement of the  world. It Will be a great thing if the nations which left it corne back to it.  Staying out of such a noble undertaking cannot be a commendable attitude.
8.24 Ladies and gentlemen, there is one aspect of Unesco's functioning that
1 should like not only to allude to but to emphasize in my address. Somehow it  appears that many member countries are rather dismayed at the present inadequacy  of the Unesco programmes in their countries. They lay such hopes and  expectations in this Organization. The developing or Third World countries are  already in the grip of huge economic difficulties and labouring under an  accumulation of debt and they deserve to be better programmed, guided and  funded. Life for SO many countries, to say the least, is not being aided and  improved by Unesco endeavours. 1 think 1 voice the views and feelings of a large  majority of members who deserve to be assisted not only in funding but in  prograImning. Here too enormous discrepencies appear glaringly. In matters in  which Unesco is concerned and associated, the programme implemented and the  efforts made should aim at the general good. Our new Director-General brings  with him experience, sensitivity and a knowledge of the deficiencies, demands  and needs of the Third World countries. We hope he Will recognize the needs of  member countries and that the Conference Will support his initiatives in this  regard. Pakistan, and some countries like it, do not want ambitious schemes but,  in the socio-economic, technological and intellectual conditions in which we  stand a little help Will certainly make us do our duty to our country. If  socio-economic, educational and cultural improvement is the abject of Unesco,  its existence and mission, we had better view and review needs and programmes in  this context. The general complaint of neglect made by the member countries iS  something which Unesco should avoid.
8.25 Ladies and gentlemen, in saying this 1 am not unmindful of or  ungrateful for the assistance Unesco has given us for the preservation of  Moenjodaro, or for the preparation of Volume I of Indo-Seals which has appeared  with Indo-Finnish collaboration. Dr Asko Parpola of the University of Finland  and 1 are currently working on the second volume of Indo-Seals with  Pakistan-Finnish co-operation and assistance from the University of Turku,
9  Finland. This work should be ready by next March and we wrote the introduction a  month ago. We are in fact preparing the third volume of Indo-Seals. No work of  such a nature has been produced before - a really marvellous instance of  Pakistan-Finnish co-operation in the field of archaeology and anthropology; but  here too we shall seek assistance from Unesco. Even the second volume is  beginning to give concern on account of the paucity of funds.
8.26 This, ladies and gentlemen, reminds me of certain decisions and  Programmes of the United Nations which declared a Year of Literature, a Decade  for Women, a Year of the Child and SO on. Why not let us declare two years from
1990-1992 as 'Years of the Teacher'? I am afraid in my view the teacher has been  neglected in spite of a11 talk of education, culture and literature. My  peregrinations of the last 20 years in both developed and developing countries  Of North America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East have left me saddened by  the role, status and plight of teachers in sociological and economic terms. The  teaching profession a11 over the world is in a serious crisis. There is a crisis  everywhere, even in Europe. 1 went to Canada last year: even they have a crisis.  The problem of teachers has been neglected by nations both rich and poor. Lack  of professional status and educational amenities and facilities are being  increasingly felt a11 over the world. Let us give hope, recognition and economic  status to teachers. This fiddling with the profession of teaching is wrong and  cannot be countenanced. Education does not mean buildings and extravaganza. It  is the teachers and the books which make education. Can we expect the United  Nations to emphasize, publicize, enunciate and proclaim this idea? TO my  thinking, in view of modern needs and tendencies, this is pivota1 for education  in the world. Let us give our teachers the place of honour which should be  theirs, we think, by history and nature, and guarantee them priority in our  programmes. In history there have been great souls and inspiring teachers in  every nation, and they have left a priceless legacy for a11 posterity. Their  great performance sometimes reminds me of Churchill's words: 'Never in the field  of human conflict was SO much owed by SO many to SO few'. There used to be  something noble and honourable about a teacher, but 1 think things have changed  a bit today. In the present day world, do we not sometimes think and feel that  in teaching we miss something or that we have lost something, and that what we  have lost is our inspiration, our pride in the worth of a teacher. 1 have been a  teacher for nearly 30 years of my life.
8.27 Ladies and gentlemen, we in Pakistan have gone through a terrible time  of asphyxiation and gloom. Our society stood on the brink of disintegration.  Hopelessness had reached the limit of endurance. Our children were not OnlY  taught bad history but none of the history of Pakistan. The historical  conceptions and ideals and processes of our political existence aid not find  their place during the 10 years of martial law. We forgot our past; it was as if  this country had no history. We began to feel not only apprehensive but t;e  grown despondent about ever being rid of autocracy. Pakistan endured  troubles and horrors of martial law resulting in our unethical and illicit  issues of living - a real decade of horrors gave us the gift of 'khakistocracy'.
8.28 A miracle happened on 17 August 1988. 1 am reminded of the line of  Tennyson: 'There is a divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them how we  Will'. From a state of total hopelessness and helplessness, we now have the  vigour and expectations of democracy. The remnants of martial laws have left  some live embers of hope. We are contending against many evils, but we shall not  let these embers of our survival die - we shall fan them into flame and use them  for our political, ethical and educational resurrection.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of delegation of Pakistan and 1 now invite  H.E. Mr Patu Afaese, Minister of Education, Youth, Sports and Cultural Affairs  and head of the delegation of Western Samoa, to take the floor.
10.1 Mr AFAESE (Western Samoa):  Honourable President of the twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference, honourable Chairman of the Executive Board, honourable  Director-General, distinguished heads of delegations, representatives of  international and regional organizations, representatives of non-governmental  organizations, officia1 observers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, before 1  launch into the text of my intervention, allow me to convey to you the Samoan  delegation's congratulations and appreciation upon your unanimous election. YOU  have corne to the Chair with impeccable credentials and we share the confidence  that you Will guide this session to a successful conclusion. Our very best  hopes and wishes for the next two years of your presidency.
10.2 Mr President, my country is a small Pacifie State of only 160,000  People, tiny by global relativity but quite large by Pacifie standards. Our
339    culture spans some 3,000 years, yet as we head into the last decade of the  twentieth Century, we become very conscious of, and have corne to recognize, a  world that is different from that of our parents. Al1 too painfully apparent is  the global obsession with the narrow monetarist concept, relegating humanistic  concerns to the miscellaneous. It is through this realization that we have had  to focus our attention inwards to our development experience and ponder future  prospects in order to forge our way into the twenty-first Century with any  confidence.
10.3 Mr President, the Pacifie is a unique group of nations, linked by the  largest world ocean. Most of our customs are very similar. We speak the same  language, 'the Pacifie way', and we are known for our positive outlook on life.  However, despite our affirmative view and optimistic character, we cannot with  any great competence combat material resource incapability, isolation, il1  health, inferior educational resources, economic dependence, and many other  ills. Being SO afflicted, each Member State in the Pacifie subregion encounters  great difficulty in going it alone in its development efforts, both economically  and in human terms.
10.4 1 am pleased, however, to say that in the humanistic/social sector, the  work of Unesco is very conspicuous for its symbiotic partnership with Member  States. The Director-General's visit to the Pacifie has greatly elevated  Unesco's visibility in the Pacifie subregion. This is affirmed by the support  for the Organization, very much witnessed by the increase in Pacifie membership  at this twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, with our brothers and  sisters from the Cook Islands and the Republic of Kiribati joining the Unesco  family. This increased interest is also symbolized by the candidacy of Papua  New Guinea to represent the Pacifie States on the Executive Board, which we hope  Will be fully supported by a11 Member States of this Organization.
10.5 Mr President, the Pacifie States applaud the major programme areas as  drafted in the Third Medium-Term Plan. In this respect we greatly appreciate  the Director-General's intention, as communicated to us, to reinforce Unesco's  action in the Pacifie by strengthening the Unesco Office in Apia through further  decentralization of the Organization's activities to the Office. In line with  this promise we would welcome any policy proposa1 for the Pacifie by the  Director-General in the areas of culture, science and technology and  communication, in terms of personnel and equipment. Further, we acknowledge the  Director-General's announcement of funds earmarked for the Pacifie States to be  administered by the Apia Office, and the funds to be provided under the Draft  Programme and Budget for the two 'mobilizing projects' and to be utilized for  both project identification/preparation and other programme activities designed  to create an information base and national expertise for the subregion.
10.6 Allow me now, Sir, to reflect on priority areas of challenges which are  important to my country and are no doubt highlights in other Member States of  the subregion.
10.7 The first area is that of planning and management/administration. The  Pacifie generally has problems in this area not only in education but with  central administration. Our poor information base and frequent change-over of  staff make the acquisition of the education management information system  important for the small Pacifie States. Assistance in the provision of  hardware, software development and training is therefore sought. The  middle-level administrative training of supervisors, head teachers and  multi-class teachers is a difficult and important area which is not dealt with  by multilateral programmes. The gathering, storage and retrieval of educational  statistics are very weak. A Unesco input in this activity Will be most  welcome. The Pacifie is struggling in the area of educational research and  institutional capacity building. Other problems are the development of  appraisal manuals for multi-class teaching, evaluation and head teachers, and  educational assessment, including examiners' training, diagnostic testing,  standardized achievement tests, summative evaluation and an item bank.
10.8 The second priority area is that of technical and vocational education,  in which assistance is required for secondary curriculum development in  industrial studies, commerce studies and home economics, for instructors'  training, particularly in agricultural science education and computer science,  and for the introduction of new subject areas, particularly agricultural  education and computer science.
10.9 The third area is science education. This is a very important area for  Samoa. Help is needed specifically for the introduction of an approach that is  community-based and student-centred, and an emphasis on process as distinct from  maintainable context, for curriculum review in relation to examinations and  examiners' training, and for teacher upgrading and development.
10.10 The fourth area is education for all, including literacy, primary and  continuing education. Despite our much vaunted high school enrolment rates,  examples of the inability to read and the adverse consequences of that  shortcoming are coming to light everywhere. The very foundation of our  education system, primary education, is not as solid as was first assumed.  However, hard data on precisely where to concentrate attack is not at hand to  ensure that we are talking about the same phenomenon. We therefore need data  bases to assess the quantitative and qualitative dimensions of illiteracy and  substandard reading; publishing with an emphasis on the vernacular and on  private support for cost recuperation; materials development, especially for the  primary level; and emphasis on reinforcing reading. Teachers must be trained in  how to teach reading, and in new diagnostic and assessment methods.  Requirements also include making use of in-place networks to promote reading and  literacy, such as the inspectorate, rural youth club networks and volunteers;  training of teachers to target and assess reading levels; developing content and  methods for pre-service teacher-training colleges; training of a tore of reading  specialists to advise on the foregoing and monitor progress; and distance  education. There is also a  impact of  need for strategies for increasing access to and  multi-shift schools, composite and multigrade schools, and for  pre-school education.
10.11 A fifth priority area is the environment and human welfare.  Environmental education and the place and responsibility of the individual in  the environment and concern for the future must be reinforced in people's  minds. Samoa is a keen supporter of the population education programme. In  health and nutrition education, there is a need for a curriculum separate from  the already over-burdened science curriculum. Another important area is  education for the handicapped. Finally, in AIDS education, packages have now  been completed. The Pacifie under the auspices of Unesco and who, has an  approved project and is now piloting both methods for the teaching and content  of AIDS education.
10.12 Networking is the sixth priority area. APEID and APPEAL are two  networks that are working very well in the Asia and Pacifie region generally.  We would welcome more activities from these two networks in the Pacifie.  Importance is also attached to subject-area networks, namely UPEGA and  vocational education. UPEGA is the science network the Pacifie is using to push  science for ail.
10.13 The seventh priority area is that of morals and values education.  Values of tolerance and respect for human rights, and peace, must be reinforced  in people.
10.14 Finally, before closing, Mr President, 1 would like to mention in  passing two additional issues which are of concern to the small States of the  Pacifie. 1 refer to the scale of assessments of micro-Member States'  contributions to the Unesco budget. The micro-States' far higher per capita  contributions are not equitably calculated when measured against large countries  assessed at the same minimum rate. Perhaps some counteraction methods could be  put into operation in favour of micro-States. For example, increasing the level  of the Participation Programme, to name one.
10.15 Secondly, 1 refer to the possibility of Pacifie islanders  recruited and appointed to the local Office.  being  A trend in this direction Will be  most welcome.
10.16 In closing, Mr President,  Apia Office Will
1 would like to emphasize that a stronger  reinforce Unesco presence in the Pacifie. The Pacifie sees  Unesco as a Specialized Agency that Will grow in authority if its Member States  have a consensus to champion humanitarian values and the full development of the  human being. Further, the Pacifie views Unesco membership as worthwhile and  capable of further evolution. With those words, Mr President, 1 conclude  Samoa’s statement and 1 wish you well in carrying out your responsibilities for  the rest of the General Conference. Soifua.
11. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Western Samoa, and 1 cal1  on H.E. Mr Mohamed Salem Ould Addoud, Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance  and head of the delegation of Mauritania.
(12.1) M. OULD ADDOUD (Mauritanie) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux, le Clément qui a enseigné le  Coran, qui a créé l’homme et l’a doué de raison, que la grâce de Dieu soit sur  Muhammad, qui a apporté le savoir aux ignorants, guide de l’humanité qu’il a  préservée de l’erreur, et sur ses proches et ses compagnons qui ont montré la voie  de la civilisation et la paix. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale,  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames  et Messieurs les chefs et les membres des délégations, la République islamique de  Mauritanie, pays du savoir et de la connaissance, de l’amitié et de la tolérance,  pays de la cité historique de Chinguetti, vous adresse le salut immortel de  l’Islam : Que la paix soit sur vous, car l’Islam est la religion de la paix, son
9  message est de paix. Puisse Dieu faire que notre Conférence laisse sa marque dans  l’histoire de l’humanité comme un pas important sur la voie du bien, de l’amitié et  du progrès. Permettez-moi, pour commencer, de présenter mes plus chaleureuses  félicitations à M. Anwar Ibrahim pour son élection méritée à la présidence de la  vingt-cinquième session. Fort de sa sagesse et de son expérience, il saura sans nul  doute nous conduire à bon port. Je voudrais rendre hommage à son prédécesseur,  M. Putzeys Alvarez, pour la sagesse et la compétence avec lesquelles il a dirigé les  travaux de la vingt-quatrième session. J’exprime également notre estime aux membres  du Conseil exécutif, et en premier lieu à M. Vargas, pour tout ce qu’ils ont fait  afin de bien préparer la présente session. Enfin, je tiens à remercier M. Federico  Mayor, directeur général de l’organisation, des efforts visibles qu’il a déployés  pour redresser cette organisation internationale et de la mettre sur la bonne voie.
(12.2) Monsieur le Président, notre Conférence se tient à un moment où surviennent  dans le monde des événements d’une importance exceptionnelle, un moment placé sous  le signe de la détente et qui annonce l’édification d’un monde régi par la raison,  et non plus par la loi du plus fort et la violence. Cela laisse entrevoir la possi-  bilité de remédier à la situation anormale - caractérisée par l’injustice, l’oppres-  sion, la famine et l’analphabétisme - que connaît le Sud, autrement dit le “tiers  monde”, par comparaison à la prospérité et au bien-être que connaît le reste - bien  petit - de la planète.
(12.3) Monsieur le Président, lutter contre cette répartition inique entre une  minorité opulente et une majorité plongée dans la misère et l’ignorance est une des  principales responsabilités de notre Organisation et relève de sa mission morale et  humanitaire. Pour cela, il faut continuer à oeuvrer en faveur de l’instauration d’un  ordre mondial économique, culturel et de l’information plus juste et plus équitable.  Un tel ordre ne pourra voir le jour que dans le respect des droits de l’humanité,  c’est-à-dire par la libération des capacités humaines et l’élimination de toutes les  tutelles et contraintes qui pèsent sur l’être humain.
(12.4) Monsieur le Président, cette détente que connaît le monde aujourd’hui,  malgré ses promesses et l’espoir légitime de lendemains meilleurs qu’elle éveille en  nous, restera pour nous autres une simple espérance tant qu’elle n’aura pas produit  de changements fondamentaux. En effet, la réalité que nous vivons dans notre monde  arabe, dans notre continent africain et ailleurs est fort affligeante. Ainsi, en  Afrique du Sud, le régime d’apartheid continue à pratiquer les formes les plus  odieuses d’injustice et d’oppression contre la majorité africaine, faisant fi de la  réprobation du monde entier. En Palestine, le peuple arabe demeure privé de ses  droits les plus élémentaires, puisque la majorité de ce peuple a pris la voie de  l’exil tandis que le reste s’accroche désespérément à sa terre, est en butte à une  iniquité et à une oppression inégalées dans l’histoire.  à l’admission de la Palestine à cette session,  Nous doutons qu’en renonçant  nous puissions obtenir la moindre  contrepartie.
(12.5) Monsieur le Président, ce qui se passe en Palestine depuis plus de 40 ans  est une offense à la civilisation, à l’histoire, aux traditions et à la culture du  peuple palestinien mais aussi de toute la nation arabe en particulier. C’est  pourquoi notre Organisation se doit de s’élever contre cette situation et d’aider le  droit, la justice et la dignité humaine à triompher. Elle se doit de redoubler  d’efforts, de soutenir avec plus de rigueur et de détermination l’éducation et la  culture dans les territoires occupés, sachant que nous lui sommes déjà reconnais-  sants de tout ce qu’elle a fait pour protéger les droits du peuple palestinien,  permettre aux habitants de la Palestine d’exercer leur droit au savoir et à la  culture et préserver la personnalité nationale, dans son identité et son histoire.
(12.6) Monsieur le Président, nous nous réjouisssons, en République islamique de  Mauritanie, de l’arrêt des hostilités entre la République d’Irak et la République  islamique d’Iran, et nous invitons les deux parties à reprendre des pourparlers  directs de paix afin que la sécurité et la paix s’établissent dans cette région  importante et que ces deux voisins puissent se consacrer dans une atmosphère sereine  à l’édification des bases du progrès et de la prospérité pour les deux pays.
(12.7) Monsieur le Président , permettez-moi maintenant de donner un bref aperçu de  l’éducation et de la culture dans notre pays, la République islamique de Mauritanie,  qui est fier d’être un pont entre le nord et le sud de l’Afrique, un trait d’union  qui, avec l’aide de Dieu, continuera d’exister entre le monde arabe et le reste du  continent, un pays qui a été et demeure un foyer de science et de civilisation dans  sa région. Cette terre fut en effet le berceau de l’empire du Ghana ; elle a vu  s’élever les forteresses des Almoravides et fleurir les cités historiques de  Chinguetti, Wadan, Tichit et Walata. C’est aussi le pays des universités itinérantes  qui se déplaçaient à dos de chameau, emportant livres, ardoises, encriers et crayons  afin que ses enfants accèdent au savoir et soient vêtus et nourris, à une époque où,  ailleurs, le savoir était le monopole des grandes villes et l’ignorance, le lot des  campagnes reculées et des bédouins.
(12.8) Aujourd’hui, la République islamique de Mauritanie, sous la direction du  colonel Maaouya Ould Sid Abmed Taya, président du Comité militaire de salut national  et chef de l’Etat, fidèle à son glorieux passé et soucieuse de construire un avenir  radieux et digne de son héritage, livre la plus grande des batailles contre l’igno-  rance et l’analphabétisme. Nous sommes en effet convaincus qu’il n’est pas de déve-  loppement économique sans développement culturel et que le bon citoyen, armé du  savoir, est l’instrument du développement économique et sa finalité. Nous avons  élaboré une stratégie intégrée visant à généraliser l’enseignement et à le rendre  obligatoire. Le tiers du budget de 1’Etat a été consacré à l’enseignement. Il a été  créé auprès du ministre de la culture et de l’orientation islamique un secrétaire  d’Etat chargé de l’alphabétisation et de l’enseignement de base, auquel a été  assigné pour objectif d’éliminer l’analphabétisme d’ici à la fin de la décennie qui  va commencer. Ce ministère a d’ailleurs obtenu le Prix Irak d’alphabétisation  décerné par 1’Unesco cette année, et je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour exprimer  à l’Organisation toute notre reconnaissance pour sa grande contribution aux cam-  pagnes d’alphabétisation successives organisées par le secrétariat d’Etat. Notre  gratitude va également au programme du Golfe arabe pour les organisations de déve-  loppement des Nations Unies (AGFUND) pour son généreux concours financier. Nous  invitons l’une et l’autre a accroître l’assistance qu’ils nous apportent.
(12.9) Monsieur le Président, notre commission nationale a accueilli à Nouakchott  en juin dernier la quinzième session de la Conférence régionale des commissions  nationales arabes pour l’éducation, la science et la culture. Les travaux de  celle-ci ont été incontestablement fructueux ; ils ont abouti à d’importantes réso-  lutions et recommandations, touchant tous les domaines d’action de l’unesco, dont  vous avez certainement pris connaissance. En tant que pays hôte de cette réunion,  nous voudrions insister sur la nécessité d’étudier ces résolutions et recommanda-  tions et d’en tenir compte dans les résolutions que notre assemblée pourra être  amenée à adopter.
(12.10) En outre, je suis heureux de vous informer que cette commission a été réor-  ganisée en vertu d’un décret qui lui confère de plus larges attributions et une plus  grande autonomie. Nous espérons avoir ainsi considérablement favorisé la coordina-  tion et la coopération entre notre pays et 1’Unesco dans les domaines de compétence  de cette Organisation et répondu à l’esprit de la Charte des commissions nationales.
(12.11) Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions remercier M. Federico Mayor, direc-  teur général de l’Organisation, de l’aide qu’il a fournie à notre pays dans le  domaine de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation, ainsi que pour la préservation et la  protection de nos cités historiques - et je voudrais mentionner à ce sujet l’exposi-  tion sur l’architecture de la région de 1’Adrar que l’on peut voir dans le hall  d’entrée de cette salle. Nous sommes persuadés que le Directeur général qui a honoré  notre pays d’une visite dès son entrée en fonctions, et a pu ainsi faire connaissance  de près avec ces villes et se rendre compte des dangers qui les menacent, ne ména-  gera pas ses efforts pour prendre les mesures qu’impose le triste état de dégrada-  tion dans lequel elles se trouvent.
(12.12) Monsieur le Président, j’en viens maintenant à l’objet même de la Confé-  rence, à savoir le troisième Plan à moyen terme. Je ferai trois remarques : premiè-  r ement , la langue du Saint Coran que récitent quotidiennement plus d’un milliard  d’êtres humains aux langues et aux nationalités différentes, est la langue  d’illustres représentants de la culture humaine, la langue d’al-Birûnî, d’Avicenne,  d’Averroès, de Maïmonide, d’al-Fârâbî, d’al-Idrîsî et d’autres sommités de la méde-  cine, de la philosophie, de la géométrie et de l’algèbre. C’est la langue maternelle  de plus de 250 millions d’êtres humains ; elle a été la première au monde à véhi-  culer la science et la foi, et continue à le faire. Aussi mérite-t-elle une plus  grande attention et une place plus importante à 1’Unesco dans les divers domaines,  une place au moins comparable à celle des langues plus largement utilisées comme  l’anglais et le français. Nous regrettons que la langue arabe n’ait pas bénéficié de  l’attention qu’elle mérite dans le Projet de programme et de budget ; c’est pourquoi  nous insistons sur la nécessité de revoir ce projet afin de donner à cette grande  langue la place qui lui revient, par une approche intégrée qui lui rende justice  ainsi qu’à sa dimension humaine, scientifique et culturelle incontestable.
(12.13) En second lieu, je voudrais rendre hommage au programme d’action “Priorité  Afrique” proposé par le Directeur général, qui constitue une excellente initiative  en vue de contribuer à l’essor de l’éducation et de la science sur notre continent.  Pour nous, Africains, ce programme d’action est de bon augure et nous souhaitons  qu’il se traduise par des mesures concrètes, en étroite coopération avec les Etats  concernés.
(12.14) Quant aux propositions relatives à l’alphabétisation elles sont dignes  d’éloges, de même que celles concernant les jeunes et les femmes. Nous voudrions  cependant ajouter que les mesures proposées devraient profiter en priorité aux  peuples et pays qui en ont le plus besoin. Pour être plus précis, il faudrait faire  un effort plus grand en faveur des pays qui subissent le joug de l’occupation, tels
9  que la Palestine, l’Afrique du Sud et la Namibie ; il faudrait aussi aider davantage  le Liban dans ces divers domaines, dans le cadre de sa reconstruction.
(12.15) Monsieur le Président, notre pays attache la plus haute importance à  l’alphabétisation et à l’enseignement - et pas seulement à l’enseignement de la  langue arabe et des langues internationales, puisque de grands efforts sont faits en  faveur de l’enseignement des langues vernaculaires. D’ailleurs, un institut national  pour l’enseignement et la promotion de ces langues a été créé.
(12.16) Monsieur le Président, je tiens à évoquer ici l’intérêt que porte mon pays  aux problèmes d’environnement. En effet, la Mauritanie est confrontée à la déserti-  fication et à la disparition de la couverture végétale sous les sables qui avancent.  C’est la raison pour laquelle notre gouvernement a mis au point un programme ambi-  tieux dans ce domaine avec l’aide de certains organismes internationaux. Notre  souhait est que 1’Unesco s’engage elle aussi dans cette importante bataille de  l’environnement qui concerne non seulement la Mauritanie, mais aussi toute la région  arabe et l’Afrique de l’Ouest (les pays du Sahel).
(12.17) Monsieur le Président, notre pays qui a pris des mesures énergiques contre  la pollution et l’enfouissement des déchets toxiques, se préoccupe aussi de la pro-  tection des ressources marines. En effet, nos eaux côtières comptent parmi les plus  poissonneuses du monde, avec une grande diversité d’espèces. Nous avons fait des  efforts considérables pour protéger les espèces marines menacées et des lois très  importantes ont été promulguées à cet effet. Nous serons heureux de coopérer au  programme de l’Organisation pour l’environnement au service de tous, et nous exhor-  tons 1’Unesco à développer ses activités dans ce domaine, dans l’intérêt de l’huma-  nité et de son milieu.
(12.18) Monsieur le Président, nous ne nous étendrons pas sur le sujet que j’aborde  maintenant, car notre pays, comme vous le savez, est représenté au sein du Conseil  exécutif qui, après avoir débattu de la question depuis plus d’un an, a fini par  adopter le texte contenu dans le document 25 C/l08 ; nous ne jugeons donc pas néces-  saire de revenir sur les idées exposées dans ce texte. Nous nous bornerons à souli-  gner que toute atteinte au principe de la liberté de l’information, à la liberté de  pensée et à la libre circulation des idées est une atteinte à la liberté tout court.  En matière d’information, la notion d’équilibre ne saurait se substituer à celle de  liberté ; ce sont là deux notions complémentaires. Par équilibre, nous entendons la  correction du déséquilibre résultant du déluge d’informations provenant du Nord qui  envahit le Sud. Certes, nous savons que cet état de choses s’explique par de mul-  tiples causes, mais la plus importante est que le Sud ne dispose pas des moyens  matériels et humains nécessaires pour développer son information. C’est pourquoi  nous attendons beaucoup du Programme international pour le développement de la com-  munication (PIDC), bien que les moyens de ce programme soient toujours, malheureuse-  ment, limités et risquent de le rester aussi longtemps que les pays riches ne se  seront pas persuadés que le développement de la communication est un instrument  essentiel du développement économique, et que soutenir le PIDC, c’est soutenir le  développement économique des pays du Sud.
(12.19) Monsieur le Président, je voudrais à cet égard remercier le PIDC des aides  qu’il a apportées, par l’intermédiaire de l’Unesco, à l’Agence de presse maurita-  nienne et au Centre de formation radiophonique relevant de la Radiotélévision  mauritanienne.
(12.20) En ce qui concerne le budget figurant dans le document 25 C/5, document  dont je tiens à signaler la clarté, la précision et l’équilibre, j’ai le plaisir de  vous informer que nous approuvons la croissance de 2,5 % proposée, en dépit de notre  situation particulière, qui ne nous a pas empêchés et ne nous empêchera pas, avec  l’aide de Dieu, d’honorer nos engagements financiers vis-à-vis de ce foyer culturel  de l’humanité. Nous invitons tous les autres membres à adopter la même position,  étant entendu que cette croissance sera exclusivement consacrée aux programmes.
(12.21) Monsieur le Président, dans notre pays qui est à la fois arabe, islamique  et africain, nous croyons fermement que le dialogue des civilisations est une condi-  tion fondamentale de la création d’une civilisation universelle au moyen d’un plura-  lisme qui apporte la complémentarité. Aussi, appuyons-nous toutes les initiatives  qui vont dans ce sens, comme la Déclaration de Yamoussoukro, et renouvelons-nous  notre confiance et notre attachement à la maison de la civilisation commune de  l’humanité, qui étend sur nous son ombre protectrice et dont les murs nous renvoient  la musique de langues diverses et pourtant unies dans la poursuite des nobles objec-  tifs à la réalisation desquels nous oeuvrons de concert - la justice et la paix.  Permettez-moi enfin, Monsieur le Président, de vous remettre l’anneau des clés de  Chinguetti. Merci.
(13) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Mauritanie. Je donne maintenant  la parole à S. Ext. M. Mohamed Brahimi El-Mili, ministre de l'éducation et chef de  la délégation de l'Algérie.
(14.1) M. BRAHIMI EL-MIL1 (Algérie) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs  les chefs et les membres des délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout  d’abord, à l’instar de ceux qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune, vous présenter,  Monsieur le Président, mes plus chaleureuses félicitations pour votre élection à la  présidence de notre Conference. Vos qualités d’homme de science, la réputation dont  vous jouissez dans le domaine de la culture et votre ouverture d’esprit nous garan-  tissent que les travaux de notre Conférence se dérouleront dans les meilleures  conditions. Vous poursuivrez ainsi, avec le même sérieux et la même compétence,  l’action menée par votre prédécesseur, M. Putzeys Alvarez, qui a, durant ces deux  années, préféré le dialogue à la confrontation, le débat constructif et la persua-  sion aux discours enflammés et à la démagogie. Je voudrais également saisir cette  occasion pour rendre hommage aux efforts que n’a cessé de déployer M. Vargas à la  présidence du Conseil exécutif, témoignant ainsi du rôle considérable que joue  l’Amérique latine aux côtés du groupe africain et arabe et du groupe asiatique au  sein du Groupe des 77, pour ce qui est de sensibiliser le monde aux dangers inhé-  rents au maintien de l’injustice qui continue de caractériser les relations  internationales.
(14.2) Je voudrais à ce propos rappeler les conditions dans lesquelles a été élu  l’actuel Directeur général, qui était le candidat du consensus, et qui depuis deux  ans s’emploie à préserver un difficile équilibre tout en s’efforçant de faire en  sorte que 1’Unesco s’acquitte des grandes tâches liées à sa mission fondamentale  - servir la paix, diffuser la science et la culture dans le respect des identités  nationales et promouvoir constamment les valeurs de liberté, de civilisation et  d’égalité entre les hommes. Je voudrais enfin souhaiter la bienvenue aux Etats  membres qui viennent d’être admis à notre Organisation, confirmant ainsi la vocation  humaine et universelle de 1’Unesco.
(14.3) Monsieur le Président, avant de passer au point suivant, je voudrais dire,  au nom de la délégation que je dirige, la vive émotion que nous ressentons à la  suite de la catastrophe qui a frappé la ville de San Francisco.
(14.4) Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames  et Messieurs, notre Conférence se tient dans des circonstances remarquables, à un  moment où le monde connaît des changements rendus possibles par une détente inter-  nationale qui annonce peut-être une évolution positive vers l’instauration de l’éga-  lité entre les peuples conformément aux principes fondamentaux de 1’Unesco. Mais le  chemin à parcourir est encore long avant que ces principes ne deviennent réalité,  car des foyers de tensions subsistent ; de plus, la décennie qui s’achève a vu se  détériorer sans cesse la situation des pays en développement et se creuser le fossé  entre pays riches et pays pauvres, tandis que continuaient les politiques d’occupa-  tion, d’apartheid et de violation des droits de l’homme.
(14.5) L’aggravation du fardeau de la dette et la persistance des politiques pro-  tectionnistes visant à préserver les intérêts égoïstes des pays les plus riches,  avec tout ce que cela implique de chaos monétaire et de dégradation des termes de  l’échange au détriment des pays pauvres, tout cela fait peser une grave menace sur  la stabilité politique et la cohésion sociale de tous les pays du tiers monde. A  l’évidence, un tel état de choses ne peut qu’entraver les efforts que les pays en  développement fournissent pour se développer et rattraper leur retard, pour préser-  ver leur identité et pour réaliser l’équilibre requis entre la promotion des  cultures nationales et la capacité de maîtriser la technologie. Monsieur le Prési-  dent, cette façon d’envisager la situation internationale n’est pas une approche  partiale du problème comme certains peuvent le penser : c’est une approche objective  qui doit être soutenue par tous, riches comme pauvres. En effet, il est indispen-  sable que l’humanité tout entière prenne conscience de cette réalité pour que la  paix et la sécurité règnent dans le monde. A l’inverse, l’ignorer serait ouvrir la  porte toute grande à des troubles dont nul ne sortira indemne, quelle que soit sa  puissance ou l’immensité de ses richesses. Aussi, tout en nous félicitant de l’évo-  lution des relations entre l’Est et l’Ouest, voudrions-nous attirer l’attention sur  le danger qu’il y aurait pour les pays du Nord à ignorer ceux du Sud. Si la situa-  tion actuelle devait se poursuivre, ses conséquences néfastes seraient ressenties  non seulement par les pays pauvres mais aussi par les pays riches.
(14.6) Monsieur le Président, le monde s’est réjoui, voilà plus d’un an, de  l’arrêt des hostilités dans le Golfe. Bien que des problèmes restent à régler pour  que soient définitivement éliminés les facteurs de tension dans cette région, nous  ne pouvons que nous féliciter de l’évolution positive enregistrée depuis la vingt-  quatrième session de la Conférence générale. Mais le peuple palestinien continue à  subir le joug de l’occupation et Israël s’obstine à lui dénier son droit inaliénable  d’établir un Etat indépendant sur sa terre, la terre de la Palestine. En dépit de  l’ère nouvelle ouverte en Palestine par l’Intifada, ce mouvement béni qui, dans le  fond, est un mouvement d’autodéfense, de défense de la culture d’un peuple et de son  droit à l’existence, l’entité sioniste poursuit ses atteintes à l’identité cultu-  relle et à la spécificité des Palestiniens. Elle cherche, par une effroyable répres-  sion, a annihiler l’entité palestinienne et à porter atteinte au caractère culturel  et spirituel de Jérusalem. Sur cette base, ma délégation tient à encourager l’action  digne d’éloges menée par 1’Unesco au sujet de cette question, car il est du devoir  de cette Organisation de contribuer à mettre fin à l’injustice historique commise  contre le peuple palestinien.
(14.7) Dans le même ordre d’idées, nous nous devons de condamner l’attitude du  régime de Pretoria qui, continuant à défier l’ensemble de la communauté internatio-  nale, poursuit sa politique d’apartheid. Cette politique déshonore non seulement qui  la pratique, mais aussi ceux qui la tolèrent ou font semblant d’ignorer son  existence.
(14.8) Monsieur le Président, la condamnation de ces pratiques procède non seule-  ment de considérations politiques, mais aussi - et surtout - de considérations  morales car il s’agit de la dignité humaine et de la défense des droits de l’homme  - droit à l’existence et droit d’exprimer ses opinions et ses croyances en toute  liberté. A ce sujet, je me dois d’évoquer le bond qualitatif accompli par l’Algérie  en adoptant la voie démocratique et le pluralisme. Cette évolution ouvre des  domaines culturels prometteurs, en mettant fin aux idéologies figées et en recon-  naissant le droit à la différence. Il faut dire cependant que ce processus démocra-  tique que nous vivons aujourd’hui en Algérie n’aurait pas été possible sans les  efforts gigantesques que notre pays a fournis durant 27 ans dans les domaines de  l’éducation, de la culture, de l’information et de l’industrialisation, à travers  une approche globale du développement. Nous espérons fermement qu’en dépit de toutes  les difficultés, ce processus démocratique renforcera l’orientation amorcée par le  Maghreb lors de la rencontre de Zéralda, en Algérie, orientation confirmée par la  proclamation au Maroc de la naissance de l’Union du Maghreb arabe dont nous souhai-  tons qu’elle accomplisse un pas en avant sur le plan qualitatif lors de la prochaine  rencontre de Tunis.
(14.9) Si j’évoque le processus démocratique en Algérie et l’Union du Maghreb  arabe, c’est qu’il s’agit de réalisations positives sur la voie de la coopération  non seulement entre les pays riverains de la Méditerranée, mais aussi entre  l’Afrique et l’Europe. Pareille coopération est sans nul doute de nature à servir la  stabilité et la paix et aussi à promouvoir l’instauration d’une authentique coopéra-  tion entre le Nord et le Sud.
(14.10) Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dans ce contexte évoquer les efforts  considérables déployés par l’Algérie pour la démocratiser et généraliser l’enseigne-  ment et les difficultés et problèmes que cela soulève - difficultés et problèmes que  connaissent, à des degrés divers, presque tous les pays du monde. Le grand nombre  d’abandons scolaires et l’absence d’articulation, dans le système éducatif, entre la  formation et le monde du travail sont des déficiences qu’il faut éliminer par une  profonde réforme portant à la fois sur le contenu pédagogique, sur les programmes et  sur les différents moyens susceptibles de contribuer à créer un milieu scolaire et  universitaire qui soutienne la formation de l’élève et de l’étudiant et le prépare à  autre chose qu’au chômage et à la perte de son équilibre psychologique. Cela exige,  entre autres, que l’on veille à inclure dans tous les programmes des principes  fondamentaux de la personnalité et de l’authenticité nationales, ainsi qu’à donner à  l’étudiant le bagage technologique lui permettant de relever les défis de demain.
(14.11) Ce genre d’entreprise implique un certain nombre de choix fondamentaux : il  faut d’abord éliminer l’analphabétisme, car l’existence d’un milliard d’analphabètes  dans le monde est une honte pour tous comme l’a si bien dit le Directeur général. En  second lieu, il faut adopter une méthode efficace garantissant aux pays en dévelop-  pement l’accès à la science et à la technologie. Il faut enfin préserver les iden-  tités culturelles, facteur essentiel d’équilibre de la personnalité de l’individu  comme des peuples.
(14.12) Dans le cadre de ces orientations, 1’Unesco est en mesure d’apporter au  monde une contribution majeure en empêchant que ne se creuse le fossé entre le Nord  et le Sud par suite d’une spécialisation artificielle faisant de l’enseignement  scientifique et technologique l’apanage des seuls pays développés sur le plan indus-  triel. En effet, la paix mondiale dépend de l’instauration d’un réel équilibre entre  les parties du monde : c’est précisément pour cela que 1’Unesco se doit d’accorder  une attention particulière à la correction des injustes disparités dont souffrent  les structures de la communication et les moyens d’information, en s’efforçant de  contrecarrer l’invasion culturelle qui menace certains pays développés et l’ensemble  des pays en développement. L’Unesco est mieux placée que quiconque pour introduire  dans ce domaine un changement qualitatif conduisant à un équilibre véritable entre  les diverses régions du monde, sur la base du consensus réalisé en la matière.
(14.13) Monsieur le Président, un certain nombre d’orateurs qui m’ont précédé ont  passé en revue le Projet de plan à moyen terme (1990-1995) et le Projet de programme  et de budget pour 1990-1991, ce qui m’épargne de suivre leur exemple, de crainte de  répéter ce qu’ils ont déjà dit. Je me bornerai à une brève remarque pour souligner  la nécessité d’utiliser rationnellement les crédits non employés, ce qui suppose que  l’on évite de les utiliser pour des opérations d’urgence ou à court terme.
(14.14) Quant à la proposition du Directeur général concernant la croissance du  budget, elle est justifiée, étant entendu que les pays qui disposent de moyens  financiers suffisants et qui ont bénéficié des fluctuations monétaires devraient  consentir un effort plus important que les autres pays en vue de combler le déficit  et financer la croissance necessaire.
(14.15) Pour terminer, je crois, Monsieur le Président, que nous devrions tous nous  affranchir des modes de pensée stéréotypés qui inhibent la créativité et du forma-  lisme stérile qui tue la coopération. Pour notre part, en Algérie, nous exhortons à  la préservation des identités culturelles et au respect de leurs spécificités car  l’expérience a montré que les étouffer et les ignorer, c’est aggraver la crise de la  destinée humaine et la dislocation du soi, auparavant équilibré, et provoquer  l’éclatement de groupes naguère cohérents, ce qui ouvre la voie à toutes sortes  d’aventures destructrices.
(14.16) La préservation des identités nationales n’est nullement incompatible,  Monsieur le Président, avec l’effort nécessaire de démocratisation, avec l’acquisi-  tion de la technologie et avec la préparation à donner aux enfants des pays en déve-  loppement pour qu’ils relèvent les défis de demain. En ces temps de mutations  majeures dans le monde entier, chaque pays a le devoir de contribuer à soutenir les  changements en cours et à les infléchir de façon non seulement à mettre un terme aux  conflits entre l’Est et l’Ouest ou entre le Nord et le Sud, mais aussi à accélérer  le cours de l’histoire humaine pour obtenir des réalisations dont tous les pays  seront fiers, des réalisations qui seront le patrimoine commun de l’humanité tout  entière. Merci.
(15) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l’Algérie. Je donne maintenant la  parole à M. Abdelhadi Boutaleb, directeur général de l’Organisation islamique pour  l’éducation, les sciences et la culture (ISESCO).
(16.1) M. BOUTALEB (Organisation islamique pour l’éducation, les sciences  et la culture, ISESCO) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et les chefs  de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Prési-  dent, de vous présenter, tant en mon nom personnel qu’au nom de l’Organisation isla-  mique pour l’éducation, les sciences et la culture (ISESCO), mes plus chaleureuses  félicitations pour votre élection à la présidence de la vingt-cinquième session de  la Conférence générale de 1’Unesco. La confiance dont vos pairs vous ont investi  témoigne clairement de l’estime dont vous jouissez pour vos qualités de scientifique  éminent, vos compétences et votre dévouement à l’une des causes les plus nobles de  notre époque : la diffusion de la connaissance et la généralisation du savoir.
(16.2) Monsieur le Président, il est de coutume, depuis la création de 1’ISESCO en
1982, que le Directeur général de cette organisation prenne la parole devant votre  assemblée, et c’est pour moi, à chaque session, une joie et un honneur de me confor-  mer à cette louable tradition. L’occasion m’est ainsi donnée de me joindre à cet  aréopage d’hommes de culture et de penseurs, venus de tous les horizons débattre des  questions vitales inscrites à votre ordre du jour, dans le but de satisfaire les  aspirations de l’humanité à la paix, à la concorde et à la coopération dans le monde.
(16.3) Le débat constructif qui, durant tout un mois, va se dérouler ici sera  ouvert aux divers courants de pensée et de culture et favorisera ainsi des échanges  constructifs, car la création d’une civilisation équilibrée pour l’avenir dépend de  l’existence d’une telle relation entre les différents courants. Ce n’est qu’à cette  condition que pourra s’amorcer un processus fécond intégrant l’ensemble des valeurs  humaines, sans discrimination ni volonté d’hégémonie et de monopole. Le phénomène  que l’on appelle aujourd’hui “occidentalisation mondiale” a d’ores et déjà échoué en  tant que projet “civilisant” car il ne représente qu’un modèle de conceptualisation  parmi d’autres, une forme de pensée matérialiste parmi d’autres, qui a pu s’établir  et s’étendre grâce à la normalisation des techniques de communication et d’échange.  Ce phénomène paraît peut-être inéluctable, mais il comporte des dangers tels que le  maldéveloppement, la diminution de la couche d’ozone, l’augmentation de la tempéra-  ture terrestre et l’élévation du niveau des mers, outre la prolifération des armes  nucléaires d’annihilation... Cela a suffi à inciter un certain nombre de person-  nalités responsables, dans le monde entier, à condamner les effets néfastes de ce  phénomène, ainsi qu’à sensibiliser l’opinion internationale à ses dangers, en vue de  juguler le mal pendant qu’il est encore temps. Le Projet de programme et de budget  qui vous a été soumis par mon éminent collègue M. Federico Mayor reflète clairement  cette préoccupation, de même d’ailleurs que la reflètent les divers amendements pro-  posés > en particulier ceux relatifs aux champs majeurs de programme 1, II, III et V,  amendements dont une vingtaine émanent de pays islamiques, où à l’élaboration des-  quels ces derniers ont participé.
(16.4) L’intérêt manifesté par les pays islamiques à travers ces amendements tra-  duit l’importance qu’ils attachent au développement équilibré et intégré de l’indi-  vidu, un développement fondé sur les principes et les préceptes sacrés de l’Islam et  embrassant toutes les aspirations humaines, qu’elles soient matérielles ou spiri-  tuelles. Ce sont du reste ces préoccupations qui ont amené les pays islamiques à  créer l’ISESC0, pour rester fidèles à leur identité et à leur héritage, tout en se
355    préparant, sur le plan éducatif, scientifique, culturel et technologique, à l’entrée  dans le XXIe siècle. En d’autres termes, il s’agit pour nous de permettre à l’indi-  vidu de s’épanouir en tant qu’être conscient, sachant concilier le “comment faire”  et le “comment être”.
(16.5) La tâche est immense, mais exaltante. L’ISESCO s’y emploie sans relâche,  stimulée et encouragée tant par l’accueil réservé à ses programmes par tous ses  Etats membres que par la contribution de ceux-ci à la conception et à la planifica-  tion de ses activités. Cette étroite coopération entre 1’ISESCO et ses Etats membres  a porté ses fruits, puisque notre Organisation a pu élargir le champ de ses acti-  vités et accroître le nombre de ses programmes - de 21 dans son premier Plan (1983-
1985), à 51 pour le Plan 1985-1988, tandis que son Plan actuel (1988-1991) n’en  compte pas moins de 86, répartis entre ses trois secteurs d’activité - l’éducation,  les sciences et la culture - et s’articulant autour de deux axes : la préservation  de l’authenticité et l’implantation de la modernité.
(16.6) Non seulement 1’ISESCO a étendu son champ d’action, mais elle s’est aussi  employée à diversifier ses relations extérieures en établissant des liens de coopé-  ration avec un certain nombre d’institutions régionales, suprarégionales et inter-  nationales. Je voudrais ici me féliciter des relations d’étroite coopération qui se  sont nouées entre 1’ISESCO et un certain nombre d’organisations du système des  Nations Unies, notamment l’Unesc0, 1’OMS et 1’OMPI. Je voudrais signaler en outre  que nous avons l’intention de conclure d’autres accords avec la FAO et le Haut  Commissariat des Nations Unies pour les réfugiés et que nous procédons à des consul-  tations exploratoires avec le BIT et le PNUD pour examiner la possibilité d’une  coopération mutuellement avantageuse. Si nous avons fait ce choix, Monsieur le Pré-  sident, c’est parce que nous sommes persuadés que les problèmes de développement  sont si complexes et si interdépendants que s’y attaquer individuellement et unila-  téralement équivaut à gaspiller les énergies et les efforts alors même qu’il est  possible de les unir pour un meilleur résultat.
(16.7) A ce propos, je voudrais me féliciter des résultats auxquels a abouti  l’expérience que nous avons lancée avec 1’Unesco. Nous avons pu, à l’issue des  premières consultations entre les deux organisations, en mai 1988, arrêter un  programme de deux ans portant sur plus de 30 activités et financé conjointement.  Depuis, les deux parties ont présenté des propositions concernant plus de 15 acti-  vités et opérations supplémentaires que les deux organisations exécutent en commun.  Le succès de ces actions conjointes amène les deux organisations à se concerter afin  d’intensifier leurs efforts pour affronter des problèmes tels que le développement  de l’analphabétisme ou pour s’occuper de questions particulières comme la réinser-  tion socioculturelle des enfants d’émigrés.
(16.8) J’ai même pu constater avec une grande satisfaction que les initiatives que  nous avions décidé de prendre sans que les deux organisations se soient consultées  au préalable visaient finalement les mêmes objectifs, ce qui prouve - s’il en était  besoin - que nos préoccupations sont identiques. Ainsi en est-il, par exemple, de  l’intérêt que nous portons à la réhabilitation des infrastructures parascolaires en  vue de les mettre au service de la généralisation de l’enseignement primaire et de  l’éducation des adultes. La même remarque vaut pour le projet ambitieux qui consiste  à revoir le problème de l’éducation sous le triple aspect des moyens, des besoins et  du contenu.
(16.9) A cet égard, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de faire deux remarques  susceptibles d’intéresser votre assemblée. La première est que 1’ISESCO fait une  distinction très nette entre les concepts d’éducation et d’enseignement, le premier  désignant le “comment faire”, et le second le “comment être”. C’est à la synthèse de  ces deux concepts que le monde islamique cherche à parvenir. L’ISESCO s’emploiera à  convaincre les organisateurs de la Conférence mondiale qui doit se tenir à Bangkok  l’année prochaine de tenir compte de cette distinction lorsque seront posés les  principes fondamentaux de la Charte mondiale de l’éducation qui sera proposée pour  adoption lors de cette Conférence.
(16.10) Ma deuxième remarque est que nous soutenons sans réSerVe l'initiative prise  par la Banque mondiale, l’Unicef, 1’Unesco et le PNUD de réunir une Conférence mon-  diale sur l’éducation pour tous et je voudrais, à ce propos, confirmer que 1’ISESCO  y participera activement. Je me propose en effet de soumettre un projet islamique au  Conseil exécutif de 1’ISESCO dont la dixième session se tiendra à Rabat en  novembre ; j’ai tout lieu de croire que ce projet emportera l’adhésion du Conseil  exécutif. Puisant sa raison d’être et sa légitimité dans les préceptes de l’Islam,  il permettra de mobiliser des ressources considérables dans le monde islamique et  d’alléger le fardeau que représentent, pour les Etats islamiques, les dépenses  consacrées à la lutte contre l’analphabétisme et à l’éducation de base.
(16.11) J’ai tenu à faire ces deux remarques parce que 1’ISESCO et ses Etats  membres espèrent que la Conférence mondiale aboutira à une réévaluation du concept  d’éducation et ouvrira ainsi la voie à un nouveau projet de développement visant à  atteindre des objectifs non seulement quantitatifs, mais aussi qualitatifs.
(16.12) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et  style de dire qu’à l’horizon de l’an 2000,  Messieurs, ce n’est pas une clause de  l’humanité se trouvera à la croisée des  chemins. Nous assistons à l’émergence de nouvelles forces qui cherchent à dominer  les sociétés et à noyauter les institutions. Quel que soit le nom qu’on leur donne,  elles sont toutes de nature oligopolistique et contrôlent déjà l'essentiel de la  production, des transactions financières et de la technologie. Engendrées par le  modèle de production capitaliste, elles n’hésiteront pas à détourner les résultats  du progrès scientifique et technologique à des fins d’accumulation, quitte à  conduire le monde à sa perte.
(16.13) C’est cette sombre perspective - que chacun de nous a commencé à entrevoir  et à redouter - qui a provoqué la prise de conscience que nous constatons aujour-  d'hui. Une prise de conscience salutaire que nous devons encourager par une action  vigoureuse et appropriée, surtout auprès de ceux qui sont les plus réceptifs,  c’est-à-dire les enfants d’âge scolaire. Je vous remercie.
(17.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie M. Abdelhadi Boutaleb, directeur général de 1'ISESCO.
17.2 1 have pleasure in inviting H.E. Professor Dr Aniceto Dos Muchangos,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Mozambique, to take the  floor.
18.1 Mr DOS MUCHANGOS (Mozambique) (Statement delivered in Portuguese;  English translation provided by the delegation):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of Unesco,  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board of Unesco, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Republic of Mozambique, 1 have the  honour and the privilege of extending my warmest greetings and congratulations  to you on being elected to lead the proceedings of the twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference. your election bears witness to your experience and  wisdom which, 1 am sure, Will contribute to the success of this twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference.
18.2 We also convey our warmest greetings to the members of the Secretariat,  and in particular to the Director-General who since 1987 has wisely conducted  the destiny of this important Organization which, for us, is the cultural and  scientific legacy of humanity.
18.3 1 also greet the Chairman of the Executive Board, who with dedication  and perseverance led the Board's last four sessions, and welcome the role he  played in the elaboration of decisions and recommendations related to the main  documents before the Conference.
18.4 As head of my delegation, 1 would also like to express my greetings to  the distinguished delegates whose presence and participation in this session  reveal, as in our delegation, continuity in confidence and hope in the fruitful  results of our international co-operation, in the areas of education, science,  culture and communication.
18.5 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we have  constantly participated in international discussions, convinced that the  problems of education, science and culture have assumed a global dimension and  that their solution cari be found through international solidarity. This is why  we associate ourselves with the majority of countries which state that they are  in favour of the universality of Unesco and that this is an important condition  for success in the implementation of programmes approved by this forum.
18.6 We had an opportunity of reiterating this point of view to the  Director-General when he visited the People's Republic of Mozambique in March
1988. On the occasion we also demonstrated and expressed our approval of the  activities which contribute towards the strengthening and efficiency of our  Organization. The visit which the Director-General paid to our country  constituted an important stimulus for our work and also for the southern African  subregion.
18.7 This session is taking place at a time when international understanding  and peace are gaining impetus in the community of nations. We consider that  this consensus is an important condition for the attainment of Unesco's ideals.
357    We fully appreciate that this position is clearly formulated and sustained in  the Introduction to the Draft Medium-Term Plan. In this document, as in other  texts of distinguished personalities of the international community, we assert  once again the interdependence between the problems which humanity is facing and  their global character. It is also within this context that we understand  present concerns and their connection with problems related to peace and the  survival of the human species.
18.8 Despite this confirmation and growing awareness about these relations,  unfortunately, we have to admit that situations which limit or block  co-operation and the development of Unesco's programmes still exist in many  parts of the globe.
18.9 We also agree that external indebtedness is one of the main obstacles  to improvement in areas of Unesco's competence. The negative influence of  external debt, also stressed at the last summit conference of the Organization  of African Unity, constituted the starting point of our interpretation of the  document 'Priority: Africa'. Because of this 1 would like to express my  gratitude for the initiative of the Director-General in the preparation of this  document which corresponds to the provisions of the Lagos Plan of Action for the  Implementation of the Monrovia Strategy for the Economie Development of Africa  and the United Nations Programme of Action for African Economie Recovery and  Development. We were left in no doubt at a11 that the document relates the  tragic effects of external indebtedness to education, science and culture. The  subsequent publication of this programme in Portuguese leads us to express our  congratulations on the enormous impact the document Will have among leading  cadres in my country and among the public in general in enhancing the general  understanding of Unesco's activities.
18.10 Mr President, southern Africa continues to be an area where the  situation remains difficult. We are convinced that apartheid, which is strongly  condemned, is the main cause of conflict in our area. As has been widely  publicized throughout the international community, the racist South African  regime, apart from oppressing its own people, recruits, trains, arms and directs  bandits which destabilize countries of this region. Despite efforts made by  countries of the region, peace is still an aspiration for millions of human  beings who fight daily for their survival and that of future generations.
18.11 The present international situation, characterized by efforts to  overcome ideological and other types of conflicts, when considering how to solve  fundamental global problems of humanity, favours the cause of peace and  coexistence in southern Africa.
18.12 We hope that the latest event, the Namibia Accord, declarations from  the new leaders of the South African regime, international and regional  understandings which are emerging, may lead to a climate of peace and  coexistence in the region.
18.13 My government, under the direction of His Excellency President Joaquim  Chissano, has done a11 it could in making positive studies of favourable  tendencies towards a new climate in the area. When the Director-General visited  our country, he saw some of the atrocities that are committed daily and the  extension of destruction caused by these bandits. It is easy to see why we are  engaged in the cause of re-establishing peace in our country and in the region.  The main targets of vandalism apart from the defenceless mass, are economic and  social infrastructures, particularly educational installations.
18.14 This cruel reality has been witnessed by staff members of the  Secretariat of Unesco and numerous consultants working for international  organizations and non-governmental organizations.
18.15 We greatly appreciate the way in which Unesco has assumed the ethical  role in promoting the ideal of peace in the minds of men which is enshrined in  its Constitution together with programmes directed at reducing suffering.
18.16 On behalf of the Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique, 1  would like to thank the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the  Director-General of Unesco for their joint initiative which resulted in the  launching of the Emergency Programme, despite the financial limitations under  which the United Nations and Unesco are labouring.
18.17 Mr President, co-operation between Mozambique and Unesco is considered  to be very positive by my government. This positive evaluation should be viewed  in connection with the expansion of programmes which caver practically a11  sectors of Unesco's competence.
18.18 Allow me, Mr President, to make a brief observation on the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 and the joint projects between Mozambique and  Unesco. In our co-operation, the education sector continues to play a dominant  part. The predominance of projects in this sector is justified as it covers a  large area of different educational levels and age groups. Mozambique continues  to give priority to the following objectives: compulsory schooling, the  training of personnel needed for economic, scientific and technological  development. The predominance of these objectives was reaffirmed by the Frelimo  Party at its Fifth Congress last July.
18.19 This is why we are very sensitive to programmes and actions related to  the eradication of illiteracy and to education for all. In this area, 1 have  the honour to inform distinguished delegates of our total readiness to support  these programmes.
18.20 Last September we concluded preparation of our Plan for Educational  Development until the year 2000. This Plan, which has been submitted for  government approval, contains the strategy and the major general guidelines for  the development of this sector during the next decade. It was elaborated taking  into account present facts and development trends in the country. One aspect of  the Plan which it is perhaps important to highlight is the recognition of the  significance of participation by local and international communities. A similar  effort Will be made at the national level concerning local social institutions.  It Will be necessary to guarantee international help, and help from Unesco in  particular.
18.21 Last September we also analysed and scrutinized the introduction of the  system of education. We noted with great anxiety not only that there was no  growth but that there was a decrease in enrolments during the 1980s. This  dramatic situation caused essentially by the war, natural calamities and a  combination of unfavourable international economic conditions, produced the  following results: first, the total number of children in primary education  (from grade 1 to grade 5) decreased from 1981 to 1988 from about 1,377,OOO to  about 1,200,000, making a net enrolment percentage drop during this period from
95 per cent to 59 per cent; second, the total number of children enrolled  annually in lower primary education also decreased from nearly 400,000 children  in 1981 to less than 270,000 in 1988, reducing the net admission percentage from  about 111 per cent in 1981 to little less than 60 per cent in 1988.
18.22 The number of schools also decreased dramatically and today represent  not more than 60 per cent of the schools which existed in 1981. TO aggravate  this situation, we continue to suffer from a lack of human resources, materials  and finance. Let me remind you, distinguished delegates, that Mozambique was  recently included in the group of the less developed countries according to the  United Nations classification. It is in these dramatic circumstances that we  present to this Conference the Plan which Unesco experts, under project  M02/86/025, helped to formulate.
18.23 Proposals for projects which Will be discussed with the divisions  concerned were selected as an integrated contribution by Unesco to the reality  we wish to change with urgent, energetic and daring measures. We are obviously  talking about a great challenge in which we invite Unesco to participate. The  Participation Programme, the regular programme, United Nations-funded projects  and also financing from the World Bank, non-governmental organizations and  funds-in-trust projects Will a11 constitute a contribution to that challenge.
18.24 Allow me also to cal1 your attention to the necessity for training  technical cadres for better management in education as well as for further  training in the planning system, collecting and analysing related education  information.
18.25 With regard to the programme 'Education and the future', we already  presented our urgent needs to the Regional Office for Education in Africa  (BREDA) during the seminar it financed. The above topics were then discussed in  full. At this seminar we also analysed the situation of illiteracy in  Mozambique, and drew up directives for procedures for this work. Among the  various resolutions, we decided to introduce pilot projects of functional  literacy programmes in mother tongues and integrated into socio-economic units.  Other activities are related to those Unesco intends to undertake under  paragraphs 01111 and 01118 (Programme actions 2 and 3) of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1990-1991.
18.26 Still concerning basic universal education, we noted that any success  towards the advancement of this project depends on the training of teacher  trainers, on filling the teacher-training centres suitably and on readjusting  plans and study programmes.
18.27 For a11 these actions my government believes it fundamental to involve  the whole community. That is to say, in concrete terms, that a11 sections Of  society must participate in them and indeed they have already participated in  actions to combat illiteracy. It is within this context and atmosphere that we  are preparing for International Literacy Year in 1990. These and other points  also appeared in the national document which we Will present to the  international conference and to other international meetings organized by Unesco.
18.28 Mr President, concerning the special project on the Young Child and the  family, our attention is still concentrated on the project which started in 1988  related to the education of displaced populations. The continuation of this  pilot project is vital, in view of the state of armed conflict which renders  about 5 million Mozambicans permanently nomadic, one million of them being  refugees in neighbouring countries. In fact, we consider this project as  included in our strategy of expansion and rehabilitation of the school network.  However, Mr President, it is not only physical negative effects that are brought  about by the armed conflict in the country. Hundreds and thousands of children  of school-going age, victims of barbarie actions, suffer from extremely complex  problems related to family break-up, mental disturbances, derangement and  psychological problems which affect their learning capacity and their harmonious  development. It is under these conditions that, for the development of  education, my government considers as a matter of priority the re-establishment  and rehabilitation of the school network which was destroyed and the programme  of specialized teaching for children needing special tare.
18.29 Concerning the programme on education and the world of work, we focus  particular attention on the project related to improving the curricula of  professional and vocational education. In the difficult socio-economic  conditions in which we live, education for employment constitutes a social  concern of wide dimensions. The dramatic character of this question is made  clear when one considers that about 70 per cent of the children who complete  their basic education every year during the next decade could continue with  their normal training programmes. As it is, a large number of them Will swell  the number of illiterates or see their education prematurely tut short.
18.30 If this contingent of Young people has no opportunity of employment,  even with training, and if they have nothing to do, without forma1 education,  apart from creating flagrant social injustice, this situation Will constitute a  waste or a loss of the human potential needed for socio-economic development,  and could create a hotbed of delinquency and social destabilization.
18.31 In the area concerning basic science and technology education, we still  consider relevant the projects mentioned in the memorandum between Unesco and  Mozambique signed in March 1988. Apart from these activities and taking into  account the necessities of our programme 'Education 2000', we insist on  invigoration of the co-operation directed towards upgrading the quality training  of teachers and increasing the capacity to produce textbooks in the Portuguese  language.
18.32 This also covers the actions referred to in Programme 1.2.5 related to  higher education and the changing needs of society, for which we consider ideal  financial support for the development of the projects already elaborated by  Unesco consultants during the iast biennium. It Will be particularly important  to make available study scholarships for postgraduate courses.
18.33 Mr President, in relation to action in favour of progress in education,  we appreciate and acknowledge the contribution made by Unesco, particularly in  actions for the training of technicians in directorates, administrations and  planning offices. Some actions of this nature had been carried out between  African Portuguese-speaking countries. In the area of curriculum development, we  consider it of the utmost importance to stimulate the actions of the present  project through the production of means for the training of trainers, teachers  and pupils. We would like to refer here to the problem of school books, which  has been the main preoccupation of our government. In this connection, 1 am  pleased to inform you that Unesco Will be invited to participate in the seminar  of donor countries with which we are associated. This seminar Will take place in  February 1990. It Will include the Programme on the Development of Education  until the year 2000, and the government Will present its strategy to achieve  fundamental objectives in the field of education within the next decade.
18.34 Still on the subject of education, which we consider of great  importance, we have reacted by increasing our capacity in pedagogical research  related to concrete themes within our educational framework and conditions.  Simultaneously, we intend to create a bulletin to publish the results obtained  in this research. For this purpose, we have prepared a request which Will be  submitted during this General Conference session.
18.35 Mr President, we are aware that science and technology cari play an  important and crucial role in the process of development. It is our belief that  taking concrete action Will enhance the use of science and technology for  development and cari greatly contribute to reducing the gap between developed and  developing countries. Mozambique has been involved in international discussions  with countries of the region, discussions sponsored by Unesco, on scientific  policy and technology.  in the activities  We consider of significant importance our participation  of CASTAFRICA II and in the First Congress of African  Scientists. At the national level, significant steps have been taken to promote  science and technology for development; an increasing number of technological  and scientific programmes have been launched in areas directly linked with our  specific realities, such as new and renewable sources of energy. We recently  held a national seminar on scientific and technological materials from which  some general guidelines and orientations were derived.
18.36 Our delegation considers that the global proposa1 concerning science  and technology as set out in Major Programme Area II, as well as the amendments  which appear in document 25 C/6, clearly reflect our main needs. We consider it  relevant that science and technology should contribute to development and that  higher education should be adapted to local necessities and priorities. The  understanding of the simultaneous development of basic sciences and technologies  is also important, given their interdependence. We Will submit concrete requests  as a follow-up of the activities undertaken by highly qualified consultants in  the fields of physics, mathematics and chemical engineering. Al1 these  activities Will need to be followed up by the dissemination of their results.  The inclusion of this point in the overall programme proposa1 has our support.
18.37 We wish to be involved in the programme activity that started in 1988.  Indeed we received two consultants during the 1988-1989 biennium, one in the  field of science and the other in the field of informatics. We are confident  that Unesco Will mobilize extra-budgetary funds for the execution of the two  projects that emerge from the consultant missions. We noted with satisfaction  that Unesco had included our training project in marine biology among those  appearing in the task force list.
18.38 Mr President, we agree with the pressing importance of reconciling  development programmes with the preservation of the environment. Steps are being  taken for the creation of a national committee for the international Man and the  Biosphere (MAB) programme which Will co-ordinate its activities with the  National Commission for the Environment. This Will demand an effort of  co-operation with Unesco in the field of the MAB programme. Our delegation  generally supports the guidelines of the major programme area concerning  culture, and we welcome the programme objectives and the World Decade for  Cultural Development. In this connection, 1 would like to take the opportunity  to announce to you that we have prepared various projects in my country, some of  which are being implemented and the majority of which are sponsored by Unesco.  We shall inform you in detail of how these projects are proceeding. We would  like to point out with regard to the World Decade for Cultural Development that  we have launched co-ordinated actions with other Portuguese-speaking African  countries and the countries of the Southern African Development CO-ordination  Committee (SADCC). Such CO-ordination has been carried on at important meetings  on culture, such as the first Conference of Ministers of Culture, held in Lusaka  in June 1986 and the first Meeting of Ministers of Culture of the five  Portuguese-speaking African countries. This meeting was held in Luanda in  October 1988, while the first meeting of the SADCC countries was held in  Gabarone in November 1988.
18.39 In accordance with what we have already said,  the objectives and actions appearing  our delegation supports  in the major programme area on culture.  With reference to Subprogramme 111.1.1, we are grateful for the activities to  promote the participation of women and youth in cultural life and to distribute  information on the mechanisms and methods of financing cultural action. Finally,  with regard to the programme on books,  is to develop projects  we fully support actions whose objective  among countries with cultural and  linguistic links.  geographical,  We are hoping to launch a new strategy for the African Book.  Still on this subject, 1 would like to thank the Director-General for sponsoring  our project on a Portuguese Language Bibliography Fund, which Will soon benefit  other countries whose officia1 language is Portuguese.  initiatives for the preservation and protection of  We also support Unesco's  the cultural  Mozambique would  heritage.  like to receive help from Unesco for the creation of film  archives. TO this end,  studies.  Unesco could send a consultant to undertake preliminary
18.40 Mr President,  communication  the activities planned under the major programme area on  are extremely The  media play a preponderant  important for our co-operation with Unesco.  role in the process of socio-economic development.
361    Today in Mozambique the government gives a special place to the mass media as  one of the ways of promoting and publicizing the economic rehabilitation  programme of ouf country and on account of the part the media play in  disseminating culture. TO an ever increasing extent the mass media in our  country are used to disseminate important programmes dealing with education and  health.
18.41 1 should like to take this opportunity of conveying our gratitude to  the Secretariat for the attention it has given to assistance and follow-up  measures in connection with the memorandum signed in 1988. In fact, project  MO21891003 executed by Unesco facilitated the work of the consultants who drew  up the 'Master Plan' for the integration of the media and for developing the  National School of Journalism. The 'Master Plan' was our guideline for  co-operation. On the basis of this 'Co-operation for Development' plan, Unesco  Will be able to undertake the project outlined in paragraph 04305 of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 concerning the rehabilitation of Mozambican  mass media institutions, financed by UNDP.
18.42 Under the subprogramme on strengthening communication infrastructures  for development, Unesco cari assist in the organization of a donors' conference,  to be held in the first half of 1990.
18.43 With regard to the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC), which appears under subprogramme IV.2.1, we endorse the  report by the Intergovernmental Council. We would also like to present our  candidature as a member of that Council in view of the extreme importance we  attach to our 'Master Plan', in particular for the development of our National  School of Journalism.
18.44 Concerning the Participation Programme, we Will renew our request for  fellowships - which were, unfortunately, not contemplated during the last  biennium - as well as for the holding of a national seminar on Unesco's  contribution to the development of communication. We congratulate Unesco on its  efforts which enabled news agencies in southern Africa to be developed through  the SEANAD project.
18.45 Mr President, in general terms, our delegation agrees with and supports  the global programme contained in the major programme area devoted to the social  sciences. Our particular attention goes to population education, women and the  development of social science institutes. We reiterate our wish to see project  MOZ/86/P02 continued and improved. We would like to applaud the Secretariat for  the zeal and interest with which it followed the project's execution, and to  request that it should be included in the C/5 document. We should also like a  reply concerning the development of this project, which we support, SO that we  may prepare our participation in the congress mentioned in paragraph 05223.
18.46 The Director-General's report on activities relating to the improvement  of the status of women was carefully studied by our delegation, and we shall  have the opportunity to expound our views in the relevant commission. The  situation of women, following the United Nations Decade for Women, has not  greatly improved. In many instances we have observed a backward movement.  Because of this, my country prepared action programmes which were aimed  fundamentally at improving living conditions SO as to make them conducive to  equality of opportunities in education and employment for men and women. Because  of this preoccupation, we regret that the Unesco-UNICEF-UNFPA  project has been interrupted.  interagency  We would like to see Unesco participate in  covering this project, within the framework of the actions contained in the  Draft Medium-Term Plan and of successive biennial programmes. Our particular  attention is directed to women in rural areas. In many cases they are forced  into the role of breadwinner through male emigration, widowhood or war. In the  context of the above-mentioned project MOZ/86/PO2, and taking into consideration  the action which was started in 1988, we shall contact the Secretariat with a  view to its implementing the process of creating an institute for social  sciences.  la.47 Mr President, in relation with Major Programme Area VI, we Will request  the holding of an intersectoral consultation to elaborate a comprehensive  'Country profile' study which Will take into consideration various studies  undertaken in the area by Unesco, in particular the survey carried out in the  context of the World Bank education project.
18.48 As far as Major Programme Area VII is concerned, we are interested in  contributing to the activities relating to apartheid.  work in collaboration with the division concerned.  We have experts who cari
18.49 Turning to the mobilizing project on illiteracy, our attention is  concentrated essentially on the production of teaching materials, in accordance  with the recommendations that emerged from the seminar held in Arusha in June
1989. They deal with the regional project for the production of teaching  materials. This project Will give us the opportunity to resume the activities  undertaken at the National Institute of Educational Development-INDE.
18.50 TO conclude our analysis of the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, we would like to reiterate the importance of  the programme concerning youth. Our delegation Will discuss with the Secretariat  a more viable way of re-establishing the co-operation of our youth through the  participation of non-governmental organizations. We would equally like to cal1  the attention of the Secretariat to our wish to see the fulfilment of the plan  to send a consultancy mission to prepare a course programme on documentation.  This course is an integrated part of the education system and it Will cater for  middle-level cadres from a11 sectors of the government and from public and  private institutions.  la.51 Mr President, my delegation expresses once again its support for  present measures for restructuring the Secretariat and considers it urgent for  it to be adjusted in accordance with its programmes during the present biennium  and the next. In the context of decentralization, it is our wish to see the  Unesco Office in Harare staffed and provided with a programme that would enable  it to contribute to activities undertaken by the Organization in southern Africa.  la.52 Lastly, Mr President, Mozambique favours reinforcement of the National  Commissions Sector, thus elevating it to the status of a Division. Our position  on this matter was expressed at recent sessions of the Executive Board.
18.53 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, thank you  for your attention.
(19) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Mozambique. Je donne maintenant la  parole à S. Ext. M. Lameck Goma, ministre de l'enseignement supérieur, des sciences  et de la technologie et chef de la délégation de la Zambie.
20.1 Mr GOMA (Zambia):  Mr President, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Zambia, 1  should first of a11 like to join earlier speakers in congratulating Mr Anwar  Ibrahim on his election as President of this Conference. May his leadership  ensure that the proceedings of ths Conference run smoothly and are fruitful for  the benefit of mankind. In the same vein, 1 wish to pay tribute to the President  of the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference for the excellent and  wise guidance he provided at what was, for obvious reasons, a particularly  difficult session.
20.2 Mr President, 1 also wish to congratulate the new Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, for the tremendous zeal and dedication with which he has  taken up his complex and daunting responsibilities. He and his staff have  produced some very challenging documents for this Conference, which cal1 upon us  to provide guidance as to the way forward, in the face of the persistent and  extremely serious resource constraints besetting the Organization. My delegation  also wishes to pay tribute to the Executive Board for the thorough and competent  manner in which it has undertaken its work and for the important recommendations  it has made for our consideration at this Conference.
20.3 On behalf of my delegation, I also wish to join earlier speakers in  welcoming to our Organization three new members: Djibouti, Cook Islands and  Kiribati. Mr President, the general strategy of 'doing less in order to do  better', as enunciated in document 24 C/4, is most attractive. However, the  challenge and the opportunity lie in actually determining what to do and where,  and then deciding on which of the Organization's current activities should be  dropped. Nevertheless, the Zambian delegation welcomes three important new  aspects in the Draft Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995): namely, the accent placed on  scientific activities; tighter links between Unesco and other United Nations  agencies; and greater integration of the various world communities with Unesco.  My delegation has no difficulties in supporting the recommendations and proposed  modifications formulated by the Executive Board, as contained in document
25 C/108, concerning the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 presented by the  Direct-or-General in document 25 C/4. We fully endorse the reaffirmation that  Unesco should do a11 it cari to help in the enormous task of meeting the three  major challenges of our time: namely, peace, development and protection of the  environment, in particular by narrowing the gw that exists between the  industrialized and the developing countries.
20.4 As we approach the twenty-first Century, we are witnessing a historic  moment, a moment pregnant with the hope arising from recent historic changes in  the international situation, consequent upon the improved state of East-West  relations. It is understandable that, as we make progress towards eliminating  the threat of nuclear holocaust and, it is hoped, towards general and complete  disarmament, attention should increasingly turn to new concerns and supposedly  common problems such as environmental issues. However, the quest for a peaceful  and harmonious world demands of us that the resources and opportunities which  may now become available should not be deployed to further the interests of the  powerful nations at the expense of those of the rest of humanity; and that we  should put an end to the marginalization and superficial treatment of Third  World problems. Unesco should strive to play a creditable role in influencing  the ordering of priorities in such a way as to permit actions that address the  real demands of peace and global security, of which development issues are an  integral part. In this connection, Unesco should not abandon its efforts to  exert, through enlightenment, maximum pressure for the establishment of a new  international economic order which is being demanded by the South and frustrated  by the North.
20.5 Mr President, that the scourge of illiteracy is blocking out learning  and paralysing opportunity is not a matter for debate. The challenging task for  our various nations, especially in the developing world, is both to halt the  quantitative increase of illiteracy and to reduce it significantly, with the  ultimate goal of eradicating it altogether. The attainment of 'basic education  for ail' Will indeed work against the illiteracy syndrome. However, saddled with  harsh economic realities, as many of our countries are, this is no easy matter.  We are encouraged, however, by the prominence accorded to this whole problem  area in the Draft Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) and the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1990-1991 and in the important World Conference on Education for Al1  to be held in Thailand next year, and International Literacy Year.
20.6 The question of 'Education for the twenty-first Century' is a complex  one, Mr President, and raises many difficult issues. It is a fact that in many  countries the education currently on offer does not adequately prepare the young  for the realities of the present and the remaining years of the twentieth  Century. Many questions arise: should the education to be offered ignore the  present and concentrate on the future ? Or should it try to tope with both? What  of the education of the adult? Should it be isolated? And cari countries handle  the demands of the present and of the future concurrently? The need for  continuity and innovation is appreciated; but it presents a predicament for  countries where, at any one time, the problems of educational resources are  overwhelming. If curricula are continually changed or revised this may undermine  the confidence of parents and of the people generally in the education provided.  It is difficult enough or near impossible to tope with the present; but to add  new and shifting demands, such as may be generated by the need to change or  revise curricula, could well place an impossible burden on some countries. What,  then, cari and needs to be done in these circumstances? Nevertheless,  Mr President, even with these odds, my delegation strongly supports the thesis  formulated in the Draft Medium-Term Plan that, and 1 quote 'it is in the area of  science and technlology and in higher education that education must be firmly  turned to face the future'.
20.7 The singular emphasis on science and technology is appropriate. No one  disputes the crucial role that science and technology play in the development  and progress of nations. The problem has been, and continues to be, that science  and technology have reached very advanced states in some countries, while  others, particularly developing countries, have been, and still are, relegated  to the role of mere recipients of or spectators to such developments. We of the  Third World, therefore, have to grapple with the great power and speed of  technological change, especially that originating from the new and emerging  sciences and technologies. Those in the North who have the scientific and  technological know-how Will not give it to us voluntarily. They are willing to  supply the products of technology at a fee, but retain control over their  development and production. My country Will, therefore, fully support those  actions of Unesco that could enable developing countries to fight and overcome  the prevailing scientific and technologial dependence syndrome, by promoting the  building up of indigenous capabilities and capacities in these fields on a  self-reliant basis.
20.8 Mr President, in conclusion, 1 wish to reiterate my delegations's  general support for the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget for the next biennium, as modified by the Executive Board in documents
25 C/l08 and 25 C/6 respectively. One cannot over-emphasize the importance of a  clear plan of action to support decisions taken in order to bridge the  'implementation gap' that has become SO common between resolutions passed at  international conferences and their translation into practical programmes. 1  thank you, Mr President.
(21) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Zambie. Je donne maintenant la  parole à S. Ext. M. EvZen Vacek, vice-ministre des affaires étrangères et chef de la  délégation de la Tchécoslovaquie.
22.1 Mr VACEK (Czechoslovakia):  Mr President, distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and  gentlemen, permit me to extend to the President my cordial congratulations on  his election to the responsible post of head of the twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference and to wish him every success in that demanding task.
22.2 1 further wish to avail myself of this opportunity to express, on  behalf of the Czechoslovak delegation, ouf appreciation for the numerous  positive changes that have been introduced under the leadership of the  Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor. We firmly believe that the twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference Will be an important milestone in the history  of our Organization and Will significantly contribute to strengthening Unesco's  role as an important universal centre of all-round intellectual inspiration and  co-operation. 1 want to assure you, Mr President, that the Czechoslovak  delegation Will contribute constructively and with initiative to the success of  our deliberations.
22.3 We are meeting at a time when a distinct tendency is beginning to  assert itself in the complex and contradictory course of world developments  towards positive change, towards restoring the international situation to  health. It is the result of increased confidence and improved relations among  a11 States, regardless of their social systems. A growing role is also being  played here by the activities of medium-sized and small countries, among which  Czechoslovakia includes itself.
22.4 On the threshold of the third millennium, the global nature of the  political, military, economic, technological as well as ecological problems of  mankind positively demands a joint approach to their solution. The importance  of international organizations, above a11 of the entire United Nations system,  is thus objectively growing. As the Czechoslovak Minister of Foreign Affairs,  Jaromir Johanes, stressed in his statement in the general debate at the  forty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations  plays an irreplaceable part in stimulating and co-ordinating efforts aimed at  securing not only the survival, but also the prosperity of mankind. His words  fully apply to Unesco's activities too.
22.5 Joint efforts by the international community to eliminate the  imbalances between industrialized and developing countries are becoming more and  more imperative at the present time. Unesco's potential, too, should be used to  assist the developing countries in overcoming and solving their social and  economic problems. 1 would like to emphasize in this connection that  understanding, assistance and co-operation are one of the basic principles of  Czechoslovakia's foreign policy with regard to the developing countries. We  therefore welcome and support a11 programmes focused on the achievement of these  goals.
22.6 Mr President, may 1, in this universal forum, dwell for a moment on  Europe, which has contributed SO significantly to world civilization, but from  whose territory sprang the conflagration of two worldwide conflicts.  Czechoslovakia was one of the first countries to fa11 victim to the expansionism  of German fascism which, fifty years ago, unleashed the Second World War. So we  have particular reason to be interested in the implementation of the idea of a  common European house. Our concrete contribution to its construction and to the
365    strengthening of peace and security is the proposa1 for the creation of a zone  of confidence, co-operation and good-neighbourly relations along the line of  contact between the States of the Warsaw Treaty and NATO, put forward by the  Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of  Czechoslovakia, Milos Jakes. At the same time, we reject a11 actions which open  the way to attempts to challenge territorial and political realities with a view  to changing the post-war settlement in the European continent.
22.7 Mr President, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization has been among those which took an active part in bringing about  positive changes in the international situation. Unesco has contributed to the  growth of intellectual and cultural exchanges; it has accomplished useful work  for the education of people in a spirit of peace and mutual respect; and it has  helped to settle a number of global problems of the times. But the new  international situation is objectively creating much more favourable conditions  for Unesco's activities. World public opinion today rightly expects a  qualitatively higher involvement of our Organization in the solution of pressing  world problems within the framework of Unesco's broad mandate. The Organization  must truly become the brains trust of our planet. It must absorb the latest  advances in science and culture and assist in asserting new creative approaches  to the solution of the urgent questions of the present-day world.
22.8 It cannot fulfil this role, however, without the full support of a11  the countries of the world, without the involvement of prominent personalities  of science and culture from a11 geographical regions. In this connection we  support the efforts to restore the Organization's complete universality.  However, we cannot consent to this objective being achieved through unilateral  concessions and measures aimed against the legitimate interests of any group of  States. Universality achieved at such a cost would leave a negative mark on  Unesco's work and would detract from its prestige.
22.9 No less important is the effective functioning of Unesco's Secretariat,  which must be equal to the new, more ambitious tasks facing the Organization.  It is necessary to create a11 the conditions required for responsible work by  the Secretariat. Great attention must be paid to replenishing this body with  new, highly qualified specialists. In that process, however, the principle of  equitable geographical representation must be consistently upheld. Certain  shortcomings persist in this area and they were already discussed during the  preceding General Conference. This applies in full measure also to the  inadequate representation of Czechoslovak specialists in the Organization's  Secretariat.
22.10 The importance of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference  stems from the fact that it has to consider and approve the Third Medium-Term  Plan (1990-1995) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. In the  course of the preparation of these documents, Member States called for  concentration of activities and a more interdisciplinary approach. In the view  of the Czechoslovak delegation this requirement has been successfully met. The  Plan correctly directs Unesco towards the solution of the three basic challenges  of our time: peace, development and the environment.
22.11 The current number of illiterates in the world and the socio-economic  implications of this phenomenon unequivocally confirm the correctness of the  decision of Unesco's Executive Board to give absolute priority to the struggle  against illiteracy. Great opportunities are offered by the projects to be  organized within the framework of International Literacy Year. We are aware at  the same time that the term 'illiteracy' has to be understood more broadly as  including so-called functional and computer illiteracy.
22.12 Unesco must also devote itself more intensively to the problems of  adult education in the process of life-long learning. Unesco's programme in the  field of education rightly pays attention to the problem area of education for  the twenty-first Century. At the current stage of development there are already  clear indications of the need to overcome a philosophy of training for life  which limits education to functions of mere adaptation. We therefore consider  it very needful to include in Programme 1.2 the project on a philosophy of  education for the twenty-first Century worked out by the European Centre for  Leisure and Education in Prague. This project emphasizing the spiritual and  moral aspects of education could turn out to be a unifying element for the  entire programme.
22.13 The Draft Medium-Term Plan is well drawn up in the area of the natural  sciences, where activities are based on major intergovernmental programmes. We  welcome the emphasis placed by Unesco on environmental problems.  Czechoslovakia, which is suffering from the negative impact of advanced  industrialization, is actively proposing ecological initiatives at both global
9  and subregional levels. The first concrete results have been brought about by  an initiative of the Czechoslovak Prime Minister, Mr Ladislav Adamec, adressed  to six neighbouring countries for the joint solution of serious ecological  problems.
22.14 Mr President, the co-operation of our experts with Unesco in the area  Of environmental protection is a tradition of long standing. May 1 recall in  this context the activities of the regional Unesco laboratory of environmental  electrochemistry located in Prague as well as our active participation in the  intergovernmental programme 'Man and the Biosphere'.
22.15 We would welcome a more integrated approach in Unesco's activities in  the social sciences and we therefore support the convening of a European  conference to deal with this problem area. We are convinced that the results of  such a meeting would make a positive contribution to the formulation of Unesco's  future programme in SO important a field.
22.16 Unesco has significantly contributed to the comprehension of culture as  the property of a11 peoples. In this connection we recommend that a11 the  results of the World Conference on Cultural Policies, held in Mexico City,  should be made use of. The programme in the field of culture should, in our  view, set forth in more specific terms the tasks deriving from Unesco's  co-ordinating role in the implementation of the World Decade for Cultural  Development.
22.17 Since its foundation, Unesco has been devoting attention to questions  of communication. Its mission as the sole body of the United Nations system  concerned with these questions means that it must not content itself with the  role of a Specialized Agency providing purely technical assistance, but should  also study general information and communication issues, as approved by  consensus at the 131st session of the Unesco Executive Board.
22.18 In our opinion, the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1990-1991 could psy more attention to regional co-operation,  especially in Europe. 1 am sure that there is no need to explain the importance  of European co-operation within the framework of Unesco's activities, its  influence on raising the Organization's prestige in international relations and  the contribution made by the development of this co-operation to other regions  of the world. Concrete initiatives along those lines should be drawn up in  connection with the Programme and Budget for 1990-1991.
22.19 Mr President, despite the above comments, we consider the Draft  Medium-Term Plan, as well as the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, to  constitute a solid basis for the future activities of our Organization and a  suitable point of departure for further deliberations. In the course of the  ongoing discussion in the organs of the General Conference, my delegation Will  play an active part in further improving them SO as to ensure effective  involvement on the part of Unesco in solving the crucial problems of our times  in the areas that fa11 within its competence.
22.20 Mr President, at an international conference to be held in Prague in
1992 on the theme: 'The John Amos Comenius Legacy and Man's Education for the  Twenty-First Century', we shall commemorate the four-hundredth anniversary of  the birth of that great Czech humanist and educator. In his work Via Lucis,  Comenius called for the creation of an institution that would be responsible for  ensuring that 'a11 light that originates anywhere in the world from a discovery,  from a work of art, from a new skill, should become the property of all,  regardless of race, sex or religious conviction'. Mr President, on the eve of  the third millennium we already have such an Organization. Let us do our utmost  SO that Unesco may honourably fulfil the expectations that the international  community has for it and, in particular, to contribute to the implementation of  one of the lofty ideals of our Organization: that 'peace must be founded on the  intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind'. Thank you, Mr President.
(23) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Tchécoslovaquie. La séance est  levée ; les travaux reprendront lundi matin. Merci à tous.  La séance est levée à 14 h.05 hXJ@HW 3aKpbIBaeTC5l B 14.05  The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m. .&lAdT > .o eu’ vjl -LJ+ ü.AJ  Se levanta la sesi8n a las 14.05 Qti?=l~tiDs»%~