Quatrième séance plénière
18 octobre 1989, à 15 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Fourth plenary meeting
18 October 1989 at 3.10p.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  Cuarta sesion plenaria
85    ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS (suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth plenary meeting is called to order.  First of all, 1 would like to inform you that Niger has just completed payment  of its contribution to the Organization for 1986-1987. Secondly, Antigua and  Barbuda has sent a letter invoking the provisions of Article IV.C,  paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution and informing the Organization that it is  making efforts to pay its arrears in contributions amounting to $52,705. 1  therefore seek your agreement on whether Antigua and Barbuda cari be permitted to  vote, in accordance with paragraph 8(c) of Article 1V.C of the Constitution.
1.2 As there are no objections, it is SO decided. Thank you.  PREMIER RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES  POWOIRS/FIRST SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE/PRIMER INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTA DEL COMITE DE  VERIFICACION DE PODERES/  nEPBbIfi AOnOJIHkiTEJIbHbIfi AOKJIAjl lTPEACEflATEJI5l KOMHTETA n0 nPOBEPKE ~OJIHOMOWi8  JLe;c’rti se, pd -w ‘+A J3Yl &As>1 ~p;rI .
4?$iHBAQf~%--8~~%~6
2. The PRESIDENT:
1 shall now cal1 on MS Lerner de Almea, Chairwoman of the Credentials  Committee, to submit her first supplementary report.
(3.1) MS LERNER de ALMEA (Venezuela), Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee  (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, 1 have the honour to submit the first supplementary report of  the Credentials Committee. Sfnc.e my read.ing of the former report this morning,  credentials in due form have been received from the following countries:  Afghanistan, Bolivia, Botswana, Colombia, Côte d'ivoire, Dominica, Finland, Gambia,  Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Jamaica, Lesotho, Lebanon, New Zealand, Peru,  Republic of Korea, Saint Christopher and Nevis, Sweden, Uganda and Uruguay. In  accordance with the authorization granted me by the Credentials Committee, 1 propose  that the General Conference accept a11 these credentials.
(3.2) The Central African Republic, Democratic Yemen, Saint Lucia, Somalia and  Sri Lanka have also submitted provisional credentials. 1 propose that these  provisional credentials be accepted subject to their subsequent submission in due  form, and that meanwhile the delegations of these countries be allowed to take part  in the work of the present session of the General Conference.
(3.3) That concludes my report. Thank you, Mr President.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Madam Chairwoman.
4.2 1 give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan.
5. Mr AMIN (Pakistan):  Thank you Mr President. With regard to the supplementary report in  respect of Afghanistan, with your permission, Mr President, 1 should like to  enter a reservation of my government which, as it is well known, does not  recognize the regime in Kabul, and 1 should accordingly like to enter our  reservation in respect of Afghanistan. Thank you, Mr President.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Pakistan. Are there other comments? If there  are none, 1 take it that we have agreed with the first supplementary report by  the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee, together with the reservations  expressed.
6.2 1 see that the delegate of Viet Nam has asked for the floor. He has the  floor.
7. M. CU HUY CAN (Viet Nam) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement dire que le gouver-  nement de la République d'Afghanistan est  afghan.  le représentant légal du peuple  Il n'y a aucune raison pour refuser les pouvoirs de l'Afghanistan. Merci.
8. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your reservation has been noted.  delegate of Afghanistan.
1 give the floor to the
9.1 Mr YAQUBI (Afghanistan):  It is a matter of great surprise to my delegation, Mr President, that  the distinguished delegate of Pakistan,  again  by recording his reservation, has once  revealed the continuation of the intervention and interferences of his  government against a sovereign, non-aligned and full member of the United  Nations system. It is a mat-ter of great surprise that Pakistan, which is itself  flouting the international norms and regulations it undertook to uphold in the  framework of the Geneva Agreements which that government signed in Geneva, now  states that it does not  diplomatie relations with it.  recognize our government although we still have  It is a matter of great surprise that it questions  the credentials of a country which is an active member of the non-aligned  movement and the United Nations,  than 120 countries of the world,  and which enjoys diplomatie relations with more  including Pakistan itself.
9.2 Therefore, while we do not know whether the credentials of thc  delegation of Pakistan have been signed by the government of Prime Minister  Bhutto or the generals there, we strongly reserve our right to record our  reservation against the participation of representatives of the Pakistani  Government at the present Conference. Nor do we know how they give themselves  the right not to recognize us when they have full diplomatie relations with us  and they have signed the Geneva Agreements with the Government of the Democratic  Republic of Afghanistan. Therefore, we also give ourselves the right to record  our reservation against the participation of the Pakistani delegation at this  Conference, and once again we would like to emphasize the fact that  international tribunes and gatherings should not be misused in a way that is  contrary to accepted norms, rules and regulations for interventionist purposes,  as has been done today by the distinguished delegation of Pakistan. Thank you,  Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:
1 give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan.
11. Mr AMIN (Pakistan):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 do not wish to take up the time of this  Conference by entering into a lengthy discussion of this particular question. As  you Will recall, 1 confined myself merely to saying that, in keeping with the  well-known policy of the Government of Pakistan regarding its non-recognition of  the regime in Kabul, we enter our reservation on this question. 1 do not think  it is worthwhile to go into the substance of some of the comments made just now  regarding Pakistan's observance or non-observance of various international  norms. It is sufficient for me to say that the Government of Pakistan honours  a11 its obligations and that it would reject any allegations to the contrary. Of  course, it is also incorrect to say that Pakistan maintains diplomatie relations  with Afghanistan. Pakistan does not recognize the regime in Kabul, but it has a  certain representation in Kabul and has representation in Islamabad without in
87    a*y way implying its recognition of that regime. SO with those words now,  MK President, 1 would like to terminate this discussion by reiterating  Pakistan's reservation about the credentials of Afghanistan.
12.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your point is taken. Now, does the plenary wish to take note of the  first supplementary report by the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee with  the reservations expressed. 1 see no objections.
12.2 It is SO decided.  COMMUNICATION DU PRESIDENT CONCERNANT LE TRAITEMENT DES PROJETS DE RESOLUTION  RELATIFS AU DOCUMENT 25 C/S/STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT CONCERNING THE TREATMENT  OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO DOCUMENT 25 C/5/COMUNICACION DEL PRESIDENTE  ACERCA DEL TRATAMIENTO DE LOS PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION RELATIVOS AL DOCUMENT0
13.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 Will now proceed to inform you about one point that was discussed by  the General Committee this morning concerning the organization of the work of  the General Conference, the question of the treatment of draft resolutions  submitted by Member States and Associate Members concerning the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1990-1991 (25 (75).
13.2 The proposa1 of the General Committee is the following: proposals  received from Member States involving substantial budgetary increases ($10,000  or more) and received by the officia1 deadline of 31 July 1989 and proposals  received thereafter involving budgetary expenditures of less than $10,000  should, as far as possible, be absorbed within the budget level by the deletion,  reduction or substitution of activities proposed in document 25 C/5.
13.3 In the likely event that Commissions Will not be able to agree on  deletions, reductions or substitutions of activities proposed in document 25 C/5  in order to finance draft resolutions, or on the financing of draft resolutions  from the Participation Programme, extra-budgetary funds, budgetary reinforcement  or any other additional resources, the General Committee recommends that the  following proviso should be used by Commissions when adopting draft resolutions  with budgetary implications:  'The Commission recommends approval of DR..., implying budgetary  expenditure of $..... over the budget in 25 C/5 (i.e. the budget  without reinforcement), provided that this amount cari be financed  through the use of the amount agreed upon for budgetary reinforcement  or a*y other additional resources which the General Conference mw  decide upon, in accordance with the recommendations of the Executive  Board on the budget ceiling (25 C/6 Addendum, Part A)'.
13.4 If the Conference agrees with this proposed text, it Will be reproduced  in, extenso tomorrow in the Journal of the General Conference.
13.5 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.  REMERCIEMENTS DE L'OBSERVATEUR DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE/EXPRESSION OF THANKS BY  THE OBSERVER FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA/EXPRESION DE AGRADECIMIENTO DEL  OBSERVADOR DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA/  BbIPA>KEHHE rIPM3HATEJIbHOCTti CO CTOPOHbI HAEJIlO)JATEJlll OT COEHUHEtiHbIX IIITATOB AMEPklKkl  -LLJaYI bdl a&J3JI &c +Jr &a $2 “L.lx - -  ZW!LGm3R%BB&~fl
14. The PRESIDENT:  Before 1 give the floor to the first speaker for the afternoon meeting,  you Will recall that we unanimously decided this morning that, on behalf of the  General Conference, 1 should send a telegram to President Bush of the United  States of America. Since then the observer for the United States of America has  asked for the floor on this point. 1 now cal1 on the observer for the United  States of America, Mr Richard T. Miller.
15. Mr MILLER (United States of America):  Mr President, on behalf of my government  United States,  and of the people of the
1 wish to express my sincere thanks for the kind words of  condolence which you have offered on behalf of the General Conference to the  families of victims of the earthquake which has struck in California. 1 also  wish to thank the Director-General, Mr Mayor,  behalf of Unesco,  who has sent a persona1 message on  and those many delegates who have privately expressed their  sympathy and concern. These gestures of kindness and friendship are genuinely  appreciated. Thank you, Mr President.
16. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the observer for the United States of America.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OBCYXJJEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBWEI? IIOJWiTHKLI (IIPOJJOJIXEHHE)  (&) -LoLklI -L-J1 -L.slia  ia%wiw? ( $2 )
17. The PRESIDENT:
1 shall now cal1 on the first speaker in the general policy debate,  H.E. Mr Jubril Aminu, Federal Minister of Education and head of the delegation  of Nigeria.
18.1 Mr AMINU (Nigeria):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Your Excellencies,  distinguished ladies and gentlemen, a11 thanks be to Almighty Allah, the  Beneficent, the Merciful, for once more gathering us together at another General  Conference of our much loved Unesco.
18.2 Mr President, allow me to join my distinguished colleagues here present  in offering you personally, and on behalf of the delegation of the Federal  Republic of Nigeria, heartiest felicitations on your most richly deserved  election to preside over this twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of  Unesco. May 1 add that you are looking very well. 1 wish to assure you,  Mr President, and, through you, a11 the distinguished delegations present here,  of the co-operation of the Nigerian delegation throughout the Conference. We  also wish to welcome most warmly Djibouti, the Cook Islands and Kiribati as new  members of Unesco.
18.3 Mr President, 1 bring you a message of love and congratulation from the  President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Commander-in-Chief of the Nigeria*  Armed Forces, General Ibrahim Babangida, from the Government and a11 the people  of Nigeria on this momentous and happy occasion. May 1 also extend our best  wishes to the last President of the General Conference, Mr Guillermo Putzeys  Alvarez, and to the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr José Vargas.
18.4 1 salute a11 51 members of the Executive Board for their performance  and for their vigilance on behalf of the General Conference. Their excellent  service is well exemplified by the records of their deliberations leading to the  formulation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan. We would like to thank them very much  indeed for upholding the ideals of Unesco.
18.5 Mr President, 1 bring Nigeria's salutations to the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor. Two years ago, Mr Mayor became Director-General at a very  uncertain period of Unesco's history. His deliberate offensive for  reconciliation and his excellent leadership and style of governance should  gradually succeed in building up the much needed reassurance of a11 concerned.  We are confident that the Director-General, with the support and co-operation of  all, Will strive hard to ensure that Unesco enjoys another period of calm, peace  and progress. We admire the Director-General's clear vision of his mission as he  sees it, a vision he articulates realistically and yet with much intellectual  vibrancy. We in Africa appreciate Mr Mayor's recent familiarization tours of the  continent during which he met many African leaders, including the President of  Nigeria. He enjoyed the respect and admiration of ail. In his treatise entitled  'Priority: Africa', which we fully support, Mr Mayor appears to demonstrate not  only a deep concern for the challenges we face, but also an understanding of the  socio-economic forces that are shaping the destiny of Africa. Following his  successful visits, and given the historical examples in a number of African
89    countries, we believe that the Director-General must have corne to the conclusion  that if Africans must judge anyone on the basis of his complexion, they shall do  SO not on the basis of how white he is but of how fair he is.
18.6 We wish Mr Mayor continued success and we, for our part, shall strive  to continue to be a serious member of the international community by creating at  home, and advocating abroad, a world society that truly upholds Unesco's noble  ideals of universal respect for justice and for human rights.
18.7 This is an appropriate moment, Mr President, for me to convey my  country's message of highest regard to His Excellency, the President of the  French Republic, Mr François Mitterrand, and to a11 the people of France, our  host country. It is indeed a most auspicious and happy coincidence that this  General Conference which, more than any other, seeks to reassert 'the ethical  mission' of Unesco, should be held here this year, the bicentenary of the French  Revolution.
18.8 Mr President, judging by the terrible atrocities - caused by man's  inhumanity to man - which are taking place a11 over the world, and especially in  the chronically afflicted areas of Africa, Asia and Latin America, there is a  crying need to remind ourselves constantly of the articles of faith embodied in  the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and its sequel, the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Indeed, we go further and request  assurances that these doctrines are reflected in a11 the resolutions and  documents of Unesco.
18.9 It is true, Mr President, that there are some significant signs of hope  on the horizon. Important initiatives for peace are being taken in many  trouble-spots, including our own region of Africa. Severe ideological strictures  are giving way to the powerful jet-stream of freedom. This ever increasing  understanding and reconciliation among leaders and peoples, as well as the  relaxation of tension a11 over the world, Will provide a fitting environment for  the attainment of Unesco's ideals. For a11 these things, a11 thanks be to the  Almighty. But man still needs to do more and to do it urgently. Al1 is not yet  right with the world. This is SO, Mr President, because by far the greater part  of the world is still reeling under the yoke of hegemony, injustice,  deliberately structured and callously sustained inequalities, conflict, war and  a11 the deprivation and poverty that go with these evils. And nowhere are these  evils more acutely felt than in Africa, where the human condition deteriorates  day by day. In our view, a11 this misery arises from the indelible stars left by  colonialism, the most tragic manifestations of which are racism, conflict, the  debt burden and educational backwardness when compared to the developed nations.
18.10 Mr President, not only is racism, in the form of apartheid in South  Africa, an evil in itself; it is exacerbated by the relentless aggression  against the neighbouring States and their destabilization by the illegal regime  in that racist enclave. We agree with the Right Reverend Trevor Huddleston when  he said, during his recent visit to Nigeria, that, being evil, apartheid cannot  be reformed but must be eliminated altogether, and we hold that this positive  stand must be unequivocally reflected in a11 Unesco resolutions and documents.  The stars inflicted by colonialism are also manifest in internecine conflicts.  These cause human tragedy in a variety of ways, not least through the outright  loss of human and animal life and property, the disruption of production and  other economic activities and through what, Mr President, is not usually  appreciated, namely, the total disruption of the education system. Peace and the  resolution of conflict must therefore be of paramount interest to Unesco because  of the adverse effects of conflict on a11 the Organization's ideals and terms of  reference.
18.11 Education in Africa is in a state of crisis, mainly as a result of the  increasing disparity between demand for and availability of resources and the  a11 too often unfavourable environment for the pursuit of any form of education.  The World Bank Study on Education in Sub-Saharan Africa is quite revealing and  disconcerting. As a result of that work and follow-up discussions, a meeting of  African Education Ministers was held in Abuja, Nigeria, in early July. The  ministers resolved, among other things, to recommend to the summit meeting of  the Organization of African Unity that they (the ministers) meet every two  years, under the aegis of OAU, to review the situation and compare notes on the  quest for solutions. A Nigerian resolution to this effect was adopted at the  last OAU meeting of Heads of government, held in Addis Ababa in July shortly  after the Abuja meeting. Everything must be done to increase the capacity of  Africa to educate its children at home in Africa. Not only is this overall  capacity now low; it appears to be falling at a11 levels of education, in a11  disciplines of education - especially in science and technology - and in a11  regions of Africa.
18.12 Poverty and ignorance are compounded by natural disasters such as  droughts, pestilence and floods, a11 of which lead to accelerated environmental  degradation. We welcome the new global concern about the environment. We do not  know if those with privileged information have told us a11 that they know and  about a11 that they have seen which has stimulated SO much altruism a11 round.  Whatever it is, and going back for the last time to the coloration theme, we  find it refreshing that people are now not being judged by how black or how  white or how blue-blooded they are, but also by how green they are. The visible  anxiety over the environment, the general atmosphere of helplessness and the  preference for leaving others to take the much needed, but politically bitter,  measures, reminds us a11 of the Scriptures which state: 'Verily, man is created  weak', and 'Verily, man was born with a restless disposition. [As a rulel  whenever misfortune touches him, he is filled with self-pity...[andl whenever  good fortune cornes to him, he selfishly withholds it [from othersl' (The Holy  Qur'an).
18.13 We in Nigeria would support a11 fair attempts to protect the  environment. But we do believe that measures to combat environmental degradation  in the Third World must include provisions for education and scientific and  technological adaptation, as well as for economic growth and development. Here  the policy of debt conversion could be creatively applied to useful ends; not by  using it to mop up our already meagre assets, but to promote education and  ecological preservation through 'debtor education' and 'debt for environment'  conversion programmes. Furthermore, on this matter of the environment, there  must be a really determined effort towards control of heavy and indiscriminate  industrialization and towards more reasonable disposa1 of industrial waste.  While many Third World nations are unavoidably labouring under the yoke of toxic  fiscal policies and toxic loans, they do not need to have the addition of the  ultimate burden of toxic food and toxic waste.
18.14 Mr President, one cari think of no better way of describing the debt  burden borne by many Third World countries than to view it as a new form of  slavery, an environment-friendly form of slavery, since the workers - and a11  the problems associated with their proximity - are kept far away at home working  to send across their earnings in the form of ever-mounting interest repayments.  Debt is one of the most serious ills of the world we live in and a great danger  to peace and to relations between peoples. We must appeal to a11 to acknowledge  the glaring injustice of the present arrangement whereby poor peasants in the  Third World are required continuously to transfer a huge percentage of their  meagre earnings to richer and more developed nations in the name of debt  servicinq. We congratulate those great nations that are opting out of the  morally reprehensible debt party. We also laud the present initiatives being  made here and there. Problems of domestic politics do exist, but statesmen and  stateswomen are not born to enjoy the holiday seasons of history. These urgent  and fundamental issues facing the human race need to be boldly addressed.  Raising them here is simply a cry for justice, a cal1 for awareness of the  responsibility incumbent upon us a11 to build a better world for posterity. It  is not an attempt to stimulate guilt through the infusion of a generous dose of  a familiar tirade.
18.15 Mr President, with your kind indulgence, 1 would now like to refer to  the Draft Medium-Term Plan, document 25 C/4. In SO doing, 1 would like to  request you, Sir, to please bear in mind that for the past two years Nigeria has  headed the group of civil servants as well as the Africa Group. The Draft  Medium-Term Plan is a precise, simple and refreshingly readable document which  has been considered by the Executive Board and to which the Board has proposed  important amendments with which we tend to agree. By the time this Conference  rises, we should have approved a Medium-Term Plan as well as a Programme and  Budget for the next biennium. The Draft Medium-Term Plan, as proposed by the  Director-General, has its strengths and attractions. In particular, we applaud  the basic plans of action underlying the overall orientation of the programme,  including the emphasis on effective implemention, the notion of sustainability,  the monitoring and evaluating role of Unesco, intersectoral and inter-agency  co-operation and the encouragement of multilateralism. We also compliment the  Director-General on the consultations which he duly held with the Executive  Board. Whatever reservations we might express here do not detract from our  admiration of these attributes of the Draft Plan.
18.16 The poor quality of life in most Third World nations, already referred  to, threatens the very survival of the people. The question is thus not only  economic; it is ethical. The constituent opinion is that Unesco, in its  Medium-Term Plan, should clearly articulate the issues at stake. One would thus  have liked to see in document 25 C/4 some degree of the theoretical analysis of  the major challenges of our time. For example, the document should have asserted  more forcefully than it did, on the one hand, the contradictions between the
91    destructive path of war, deprivation, poverty and underdevelopment and, on the  other, the realization of the ideals of social justice, human rights, solidarity  and peace. Moreover, the Secretariat of the Organization should have analysed  how the global issues of the crushing debt burden, conflicts and vast military  spending - this last resulting in huge budget deficits - affect Third World  opportunities for development. We miss the programme on prospective studies  which offered us the means to explore new non-materialistic concepts of  development, to study the trend of world situations and to anticipate the  problems.
18.17 Mr President, let me reiterate here that, since the last session of the  General Conference, developing societies have continued to suffer from the  effect of those forces that sturdily inhibit their progress. Reasons for this  tragic state of affairs are legion and some have already been mentioned. One  finds it hard, however, to accept some of the reasons advanced in the Draft  Medium-Term Plan, It is not enough to advocate that we should educate or improve  ourselves. We would, of course, love to do that, since we believe in the  doctrine of self-reliance and share the same ideals of dignity and self-respect.  But the Third World is labouring under the burden of these external debts,  restrictive and unfavourable trade practices and the mounting net capital  outflow from the developing to the developed nations. Large proportions of our  Young men and Young women spend their prime years fighting full time in the wars  of liberation or in internecine wars. Add to that external aggression, severe  natural disasters and an increasingly fragile environment, and you have,  Mr President, a picture of the compelling circumstances that vitiate a11 our  efforts to restructure and revitalize our economies, to improve the quality of  life of our peoples and to release their creative abilities. The Third World's  leadership is thus pushed against the wall, faced as it is with the ineluctable  choice of making expedient economic and political decisions which take  precedence over the eminently preferable lofty long-term plans. In order to  enable the Third World nations to participate more fully in its global ethical  mission! Unesco, as a world body, needs to be seen to be fully and forcefully  supporting those nations' aspirations for a better life for their peoples.
18.18 Without prejudice to the discussions that Will be held in the  commissions and committees, and subject to my foregoing remarks on the current  state of education, particularly in Africa, we endorse Major Programmes 1 and II  and the programme combating illiteracy. At the same time, we support the  amendments proposed by the Executive Board. We are pleased to note the  preparations for the World Conference on Education for Al1 scheduled to be held  in Thailand next year. We express our appreciation to Unesco, UNICEF, UNDP and  the World Bank and a11 others concerned for taking the initiative on education  for all. We trust that these august sponsors Will work for the success of the  Conference and that initiative. The latter should be seen as an additional  effort, and not one that Will stifle the commitments and initiatives already  undertaken only for the new movement to be superseded by another even before it  bears fruit. We also welcome the International Conference on Education which  Will address the same theme: 'education for ail'.
18.19 The eradication of illiteracy is a vital social goal. We do not  believe, however, that it should be pursued at the expense of adequate resource  allocation to other levels of education and research. Eradication of illiteracy  must go hand in hand with plans to achieve advancement in science and  technology. In this connection, we have closely followed the implementation of  the science programme during this biennium, in particular the provision that  CASTAFRICA III Will be held during the period 1993-1995 in order to afford us  and Unesco the opportunity to review the progress of our plans. We also request  that the meeting of Directors of National Science and Technology Policy-Making  Bodies in Africa, held last July, be institutionalized as a regular Unesco  activity. Let me also urge once again for support from a11 Member States and  Unesco, support for the Third World Academy of Sciences and the Network of  Scientific Organizations of the Third World.
18.20 Mr President, 1 have already signified our support for the current  concern over the environment. Al1 the same, we find the excessive concentration  of financial allocations in the Draft Programme and Budget, document 25 C/5, on  ecological preservation under Major Programme Area II, and the weaving of this  theme into several other major programme areas, totally inconsistent with the  more urgent survival needs of our peoples. We are not de-emphasizing the  environment, but wish to shed greater light on the causal link between  underdevelopment and environmental deterioration. More resources should be  devoted to the programmes that directly combat underdevelopment. SO long as the  basic issues of sheer survival and development are the major concern of the poor  nations of the earth, 'the rational use and management of resources' as  advocated Will remain a somewhat nebulous idea to those peoples.
18.21 Mr President, on Major Programmes III and IV which deal with Culture  and communication, we hold that the most appropriate option is to broaden the  outlook of the proposals and the Draft Plan made in these two areas and realign  the programme activities in order to take on board the cherished Values and  expressed views of many of the Member States. The Executive Board's  recommendations are a step in the right direction and should be seriously looked  at. The Draft Plan as it is contains programmes which are of an anthropological  or peripheral nature. The programme is too heavily weighted in favour of data  collection, analysis and dissemination, with only slight reference to the  importance of the sustained development of national and regional capabilites. We  would also like to request that collaborative research, and North-South and  South-South linkages, be increased in the interest of closing the technological  gap. Mr President, 1 shall be finishing soon. We look forward to the debate in  the commissions on the major programme areas that deal with communication and  culture.
8.22 We are aware of the opposition of some Member States to the ongoing  programmes of some other Member States, but our stand has always been very  clear. Our views on the New World Information and Communication Order are well  known: we want to inform and be informed accurately, objectively and freely. We  would like those who have any objections to use the time-honoured methods of  resolving doubts and disagreements in Unesco and elsewhere, rather than threats.
18.23 Mr President, we are il1 at ease with the noticeable ideological shift  in Major Programme Areas V and VII. On the issue of peace and human rights and  on the compelling need to eliminate a11 forms of discrimination, Nigeria's  position as well as her commitments and actions are well known. That is why we  are very much concerned that the Draft Plan is somewhat muted on this issue. We  would like to request that apartheid be restored to its ignoble position of high  visibility in the title of Major Programme Area VII. Nigeria and a11 her friends  in Africa Will not agree with aw situation where there is any kind of  discrimination anywhere in the world. We therefore support the stand of the  Executive Board that a special project should be devoted to apartheid.
18.24 Mr President, Unesco must also articulate the rights of peoples. There  is no other body that is better placed than Unesco to articulate the rights of  people who have been dislodged, such as the Palestinians and others. If we do  not do it, who Will? These are dreadful human scourges that frustrate and make a  travesty of Unesco's objectives by preventing the notion of peace and the  kinship of people from taking root in the hearts of men. Mr President, let us  look ahead beyond the Medium-Term Plan and programme implementation. Let us move  from brave words to good deeds. We know that every nation accepts its  responsibility as a nation, but we also realize that the resolutions and  documents approved here represent the views of the international body, known as  Unesco, which is loved and respected the world over and we would like to feel  that the implementation goes on. As a policy response, we would like to request  this Organization to take full account of the proposal, at regional and  intergovernmental levels, and to encourage and enhance regional and subregional  programmes.
18.25 We cal1 for further decentralization of Headquarters activities SO that  the implementation becomes responsive to local needs, thereby enhancing  co-operation between the regions and improving the opportunities for  development. TO reduce dependence and increase cost-effectiveness, equity and  relevance, Nigeria would like to see consultants from the Third World play a  greater part in Unesco activities and we would also like to see a fairer  distribution of Unesco contracts.
18.26 With regards to the preparations for programme implementation, we note  and welcome the setting up of the Hammarskjold Commission. We trust that the  Director-General Will effect whatever changes he makes in consultation with the  Executive Board, with fair-mindedness for the staff and with justice for a11  regions.
18.27 In summing up, Mr President, most distinguished ladies and gentlemen, 1  see this Conference as marking a renewal of our collective Will to strengthen  our Organization and to propel it towards greater service of humanity. In  particular, it should finally lay to rest the ghost of the crisis we witnessed  in the recent past. We do have a new leadership and before the Conference rises  we shall have the policies and methods that Will inform the programming  activities of the Organization for the next six years. The pronouncement cari  only be made by a majority of this world body.
18.28 Mr President, let me end with an appeal. Let conflict give way to  co-operation and harmony. 1 sincerely hope that a11 the recent healing of both  the avoidable and the unavoidable wounds Will convince the three nations that
93    suspended their membership of Unesco to accept the wishes of the majority and  rejoin us for the fuller universality of the Organization and to be ready to  negotiate their needs and demands from within, as full members.
18.29 Mr President, Unesco must rank as one of the most intellectual world  bodies. Not only does it bring together political and bureaucratie leaders; it  also attracts, both to the General Conference and to various bodies of the  Organization, the most eminent educationists, scientists, social scientists, men  and women of letters, philosophers and jurists. There is no way, Mr President,  by which Unesco cari become just another programme organization with no debate,  no dialectics, no programme of activity on fundamental issues affecting  humanity, such as peace, justice, equity, freedom and fundamental human rights.  The nature of the composition of this Organization prescribes tolerance to very  divergent views towards the common goals of solving the problems of life on  earth. It also prescribes investment in intangibles, in the pursuit of the lofty  set of values that make for a peaceful, and a humane world. Unesco is not, and  cannot just be, another bottom-line or an inventory-oriented organization.
18.30 Finally, Mr President, 1 must express my gratitude to Unesco and to the  International Jury for the Unesco International Prize for awarding the 1989  International Reading Association Literacy Award to the Adult Education  Department of the University of Ibadan, Nigeria. 1 seize the opportunity to  extend our felicitations to Jamaica for receiving the Nadezhda K. Krupskaya  Prize; to Indonesia for the Noma Prize and to Mauritania for the Iraq Literacy  Prize. 1 thank you, once more, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity to  address this august assembly. 1 also thank the distinguished heads and members  of a11 delegations, of a11 nations, and a11 officiais of Unesco and our  interpreters for hearing me through. May God bless us all.
19. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Nigeria and 1 now give the floor  to H.E. Mr Bengt Goransson, Minister of Education and Cultural Affairs and head  of the delegation of Sweden.
20.1 Mr GORANSSON (Sweden):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to start by saying a few words  of congratulation and thanks. Congratulations to you, Mr President, upon your  election, and 1 would like to express our support to you in carrying out your  responsibilities. 1 would also like to say a few words of congratulation and  thanks to you, Mr Director-General, and your staff for the preparations that  have been made and the good work that you and your staff have done in order to  make this Conference possible. We have proper documents, we have proposals for  few and concrete programme priorities and we especially appreciate your meeting  the views and criticisms that were voiced during the preparatory work with an  open mind. The Swedish Government and the bodies concerned with Unesco in my  country wish to express their admiration for the Director-General's imaginative  approach towards reforming and vitalizing Unesco.
20.2 Mr President, earlier this year the members of the Palme Commission on  Disarmament and Security held their final meeting in Stockholm. They issued a  concluding statement on the theme 'a world at peace'. Prominent in their  conclusions was the conviction that a secure and peaceful world cannot be  achieved through the traditional concepts of security alone. Common security  has to be achieved, as well, through economic development, through social  justice and through the protection of the planet.
20.3 The 1980s began with the deepest world recession since the 1930s. The
1980s also began in an atmosphere of international tension. Little progress was  made in the North-South dialogue. The 1980s became the 'adjustment decade', but  as it wore on and international society began to take stock of its effects, the  negative consequences became increasingly clear. The price of these adjustments  was often too high in the form of unacceptable social costs.
20.4 Now that the 1980s are drawing to a close, 1 think that there is cause  for some optimism. We are moving towards a more socially equitable vision of  growth and development. There is less political tension. Human and material  resources cari be reallocated from the industries of destruction to development.  There is more interest in, and a better opportunity for, North-South  solidarity. As a result of this growing emphasis on human resources, on  knowledge and science, on culture and the protection of the environment, the  work of Unesco is becoming increasingly important.
20.5 The success of Unesco's work depends, however, on the participation and  commitment of its Member States, which presupposes a commitment to Unesco by
4  their citizens and not by governments alone. In these efforts we have to ensure  that women become fully involved in the process. 1 am sometimes confronted with  the argument that the issue of equality between women and men is a problem of  the industrialized world and of little relevance to the majority of the world  population; that raising the issue of equality is just another attempt to divert  attention from the unjust distribution of wealth or from other forms of  injustice. 1 do not agree. Equality between men and women is fundamental for  development and justice everywhere in the world. Therefore the five Nordic  countries Will introduce a draft resolution concerning the status of women at  this session of the General Conference in order to further reinforce Unesco's  activities in this fundamental area.
20.6 Mr President, for many years Unesco has played a central role as an  intellectual institution co-ordinating activities relating to science, culture  and education at the international level. There are those who consider that the  main task of the Organization is to establish co-operation between  industrialized and developing countries in order to transfer experience and  financial resources. 1 wish to emphasize that, to the Swedish Government,  Unesco's responsibilities surpass in important respects those of an aid  organization and that Unesco is an institution of great value also to developed  countries. Unesco, as 1 see it, is not only an organization for the protection  of cultures, but an organization enabling cultures to meet. Its work is  international in the best sense of the Word: co-operation between equal nations.
20.7 The Swedish Government is therefore basically in favour of the general  priorities for Unesco's future programme as proposed by the Director-General in  document 25 C/4 and endorsed by the Executive Board. The fundamental priority  of Unesco must be to fight illiteracy and to transfer knowledge within a11 its  fields of competence. Consequently we strongly support the initiatives of the  Director-General in this area.
20.8 1 also wish to emphasize the importance my country attaches to close  CO-ordination and co-operation among the members of the United Nations system.  This applies not least to the protection of our common natural and cultural  heritage. Unesco's environmental programme is therefore of major concern to  us. Unesco's contributions to the follow-up to the Brundtland Report and to the  preparation of the United Nations World Conference on the Environment in 1992  are important. Likewise we appreciate the co-ordinated approach to Unesco's  cultural activities and the World Decade for Cultural Development, proclaimed by  the United Nations.
20.9 With regard to the decision-making process, 1 wish to recall that,  since the twenty-third session of the General Conference in 1985, the Nordic  countries have proposed that the Medium-Term Plan be given a clearly defined  forma1 status in the Organization's structure as its major policy directive and  one of the main instruments for the work of the General Conference. This would  allow the Conference to devote more of its time to discussing the orientation  and goals of future biennial programmes and budgets without entering into too  much detail. 1 have noted with satisfaction that by indicating the various  phases of the Plan the Director-General gives Member States, National  Commissions and other interested parties good opportunities to engage in such an  exercise.
20.10 Mr President, allow me to comment on some major programme areas which  we want to emphasize. As 1 mentioned earlier, the fundamental priority of  Unesco must be to promote literacy and the mutual transfer of knowledge.  Consequently we support strongly International Literacy Year, originally  proposed by Unesco and proclaimed by the United Nations. One important  manifestation of this International Year Will take place in Thailand early in
1990 with the World Conference on Education for Al1 jointly organized by Unesco,  UNICEF, UNDP and the World Bank. Our expectations for a purposeful organization  and a useful outcome of the conference are high. The Swedish Government is in  favour of future collaboration in promoting primary education and eradicating  illiteracy.
20.11 Teaching people to read and Write is of fundamental importance for the  creation of a better worla, where free citizens cari defend their rights and  interests and take part in the public debate. TO fight illiteracy is a  large-scale challenge, but it is a problem which we basically know how to deal  with. The character of the problem is not intellectual, but practical and  political. We know how to teach a person to read and Write. He who cannot read  cari be taught to read. We also know that it is important to provide  opportunities and incentives to use this knowledge, once acquired. There must  be texts to read and there must be a reason to read them.
20.12 In countries like Sweden there is now a growing concern with what is  sometimes called 'aliteracy' - the fact that those who cari read and Write and  have easy access to written material of a11 kinds still do not read. If we cari  get a11 the stories, news and entertainment we want from electronic media, there  does not seem to be much point in struggling with the written Word. Today this  may be defined as primarily a problem of affluence, but as international media  companies look for new markets, it may develop into a global problem sooner than  we imagine. The problem, of course, is that entertainment may become more  important than knowledge, and even if we a11 need entertainment sometimes -  every now and then - we cari never develop the Word, we cari never improve  conditions for our children by entertainment only. We need knowledge. That is  why the process of teaching people to read and Write is such an important  challenge.
20.13 This observation brings me to the area of communication and  information, which is a rapidly changing field and one which attracts much  attention. These matters concern the fundamental rights of freedom of  expression and information and it is important that they are discussed. 1 must,  however, confess that the debate sometimes makes me both puzzled and worried.  Freedom of expression is sometimes presented as a simple matter of deregulation  and of the freedom for media companies to exploit markets rather than the  freedom of citizens. Attempts to promote diversity, quality and national  culture are sometimes described as a threat to the free Word. Now , if 1 look at  this from the Swedish point of view - and 1 apologize for doing SO, but that is  the point of view 1 know - this manner of presenting the problem gives me reason  to worry. We subsidize the press in Sweden in order to promote plurality. We  subsidize the publication of books, in order to promote Swedish literature.  Without our film funds, very few Swedish films would be seen on the screen.
20.14 The increasingly international or multinationalized media structure -  especially the transfrontier transmission of television - gives us new  opportunities to receive programmes from other countries. We welcome these, but  we also want to develop our national media structure. Without domestic news  programme debates on typically Swedish matters, national culture and  entertainment, freedom of expression would only be an empty phrase for the  swedes. Therefore, in our view, the development of the new media calls for  co-operation and international agreements - not as a form of protectionism, and  even less as one of censorship or State control, but as a safeguard for  pluralism. Just as openness and international interaction are valuable, the  right of every country to develop independence and pluralism in its own mass  media is indisputable. In a mass media situation characterized by strong and  growing competition between powerful international media companies, small  countries are vulnerable targets. Common initiatives cari be of great importance  and are indeed possible, as we have seen in the recent negotiations within the  Council of Europe on the Convention on Transfrontier Television.
20.15 In the view of the Swedish Government, Unesco consequently has a  central role to play in this field and in supporting the development of mass  media and communication in the Third worla, for instance, through the  International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). Our  contributions to this Programme show the importance we attach to it. Sweden is  prepared to support IPDC also in the future.
20.16 Finally, Mr President, 1 wish to submit some comments on the issue of  the universality of Unesco, which is the current code-word for the fact that  some previous Unesco members do not at present participate as full members in  our work. My country remains a firm supporter of the United Nations. We  recognize that our membership in Unesco is valuable for our country and our  people. We also consider our membership both as an act of solidarity and as an  international duty. Moreover, we have always supported the principle of the  universality of the United Nations system. The most straightforward comment on  the present situation is that we miss those countries which are not members. We  do not always agree with their views, which is in fact one important reason why  we w0uia welcome them back as members. We hope that the changes in the  political climate, the new spirit of the 199Os, Will bring about changes in this  respect as well.
20.17 Such a development, Mr President, would also increase our chances of  living up to the conclusions of the Palme Commission. 1 would like to end my  intervention by quoting one such conclusion: 'In our opinion, humanity has a  historic opportunity in the final decade of the twentieth Century to create a  radically more peaceful and more human world. This opportunity must not be  missed; it may not reappear'. Thank you, Mr President.
(22.1) Mr AL-NOURI (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, 1 corne  before you from the State of Kuwait, bearing greetings in the name of peace and of  Islam and praying that, with God's help, our work Will be guided by mutual
99    understanding, that fraternity and tolerance Will spread between us and that,  through a spirit of solidarity and love, our efforts Will bear fruit. It gives me  pleasure, first of all, Mr President, to congratulate you warmly on your election as  President of this’ twenty-fifth session. We are sure that your long experience and  many qualities Will ensure the success of the Conference. 1 should also like to  congratulate Mr Putzeys Alvarez, the President of the twenty-fourth Conference, who  guided our previous session with such wisdom and efficacity. 1 should further like  to express appreciation to a11 the members of the Executive Board and to its  Chairman, Mr Vargas, and to congratulate them a11 on their deliberations and  recommendations regarding the draft third Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme  and Budget. Finally, 1 should like to thank the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor,  for his constant efforts to guide the work of Unesco and to prepare the many  important documents laid before us.
(22.2) It is evident that the preparation of the draft third Medium-Term Plan and  the Draft Programme and Budget has been the fruit of close co-operation and  constructive dialogue between the Director-General and the Executive Board.  Accordingly, the closest attention must be paid to the recommendations of the Board  set out in document 25 C/l08 and document 25 C/6. The proposals and amendments which  they contain merit our support.
(22.3) Mr President, though we cari observe many signs of détente in recalcitrant  international problems, the world, as it enters the last decade of the twentieth  Century, is still faced with complex crises which constitute a threat to peace and  which put heavy pressure on the development programmes, particularly on those of  Third World countries. Everyone is aware that development efforts in various  fields - including education, culture and science - are pressing up against what His  Highness the Emir of Kuwait has called the ‘Bastille wall’ of debt. In the present  age, this is the greatest symbol of injustice to countries whose resources were  exhausted under long years of colonial rule and which are now caged in by debts  which block the way to development and progress. At the 43rd session of the General  Assembly of the United Nations, the Emir of Kuwait, moved by the injustice of this  situation, appealed to the international community to provide a humane solution to  the economic problem and alleviate the suffering of the indebted countries by  cancelling debt interest and part of the principal for the poorest countries and  reviewing the harsh conditions imposed by the International Monetary Fund on  developing countries. At the Conference of Non-Aligned Countries, moreover, Kuwait  called for practical measures to study ways and means of achieving this end.
(22.4) Among the problems which continue to threaten the peace of the world at the  end of the twentieth Century is the injustice suffered by the Palestinian people in  the occupied Arab territories. The occupation authorities subject them to total  neglect and deny them the most basic human rights, ignoring, as may be seen from the  documents submitted to the Conference, the resolutions of the United Nations on  Jerusalem and Unesco’s recommendations on educational and cultural establishments in  the occupied territories and on the preservation of the cultural heritage in  Jerusalem. This is a matter which demands that the family of nations should face up  to its responsibilities with regard to actions by the occupation authorities, which  are contrary to a11 the humanitarian principles of the United Nations and its  Specialized Agencies. Kuwait congratulates Unesco on its efforts to protect the  rights of the Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories and on its cal1  for the people to be given their right to an education which preserves their  national character and historical identity. We cail on Unesco to give added support  and co-operation to the population of the occupied territories in these respects. We  believe that Unesco’s Constitution and the resolutions of the General Conference  permit the provision of this support through the programme of activities proposed in  document 25 C/5.
(22.5) The plight of Lebanon, meanwhile, is forever on the conscience of the  international community. We appeal for intensive efforts to preserve the security,  unity and independence of the country and to encourage rapprochement between the  various communities. Kuwait also reaffirms its condemnation of a11 forms of racial  discrimination and, in particular, the system practised by the authorities against  the people of South Africa. It is to be hoped that we shall a11 soon celebrate the  independence of the people of Namibia and their liberation from the unjust yoke of  colonial occupation.
(22.6) In the current climate of international détente, hopes are growing that we  Will see a new age in which the voice of reason Will prevail over any calls to  violence and war, an age in which peace Will triumph over the delusions of  superiority and conquest by force, an age in which resources Will be turned to  construction instead of destruction. Al1 hearts have been filled with joy that the  desire for peace in our region has been victorious and we sincerely pray to God that  a permanent peace between the neighbouring States of Iraq and Iran Will be  consolidated, with rapid steps preparing the way for reconstruction and future  prosperity.
(22.7) Mr President, by virtue of Unesco’s mission and goals, the Organization has  a positive part to play in defusing the crises facing the world. We believe that  international co-operation, based on the principles of the United Nations system, is  the one remaining hope of saving the world from the dangers which beset it. Failure  to find rapid and effective solutions to major problems, particularly those facing  the developing countries, vil1 harm the international community as a whole, the rich  together with the poor, the strong as well as the weak. The United Nations system  must be a forum where cultures of every kind cari corne together in dialogue, in a  spirit of co-operation and with feelings of mutual understanding and respect.
(22.8) Mr President, permit me to review briefly the trends and objectives of  education in the State of Kuwait. What we are attempting to achieve is balance and  integration between the needs of the individual and those of social development. On  the one hand, the individual must be able to realize his own potential and talents  while deepening his awareness of the fact that he belongs to an Arab, Islamic  nation. On the other, social development requires the provision of specialities that  are lacking , the imposition of priorities, the monitoring of technological progress  and the absorption of technical skills, a11 of which demands that a more scientific  and applied character be given to the curriculum and teaching methods. Thus, we have  adopted a scheme to improve the school administration system within a framework of  comprehensive educational development which Will be more effective in providing the  requirements needed for success in the development of the educational process.  Studies are also being carried out on the best ways of diversifying secondary  education in order to adapt to the various types of preparation needed, to the  inclinations of students and to the need for education to harmonize with development  trends.
(22.9) We are seeking, furthermore, to promote technological education in the  curricula while at the same time co-ordinating our programmes with those of the  other Arab Gulf States. An attempt is also being made to standardize curricula in  certain fields such as science, mathematics and English language. Trends in  educational development are requiring us to support systems and establishments to  train and retrain teachers, to develop educational research institutions and to  raise awareness everywhere in the public and private sectors of the fact that  education is a ‘joint responsibility’ involving both school and society. In speaking  of our aspirations for a better future in education, 1 should like to note, with  praise and appreciation, the efforts of the Educational Innovation Programme for  Development in the Arab States and of the Regional Office for Education in the Arab  States in Amman. These two bodies are exerting great efforts to provide advice,  training programmes, workshops, seminars and visiting experts to support and enhance  our efforts in implementing the plans that 1 have referred to.
(22.10) Mr President, 1 should now like to turn to the crucial question facing us  and 1 should like to begin by commenting briefly on the draft third Medium-Term  Plan. Document 25 C/4 focuses on the major programme areas and on a number of  proposed programmes as well as on innovations in content and method of presentation.
1 should like to thank the Director-General for the preparation of this document  which attaches such importance to the social sciences and to development in a11 its  aspects. 1 welcome particularly the attention to activities concerning Young people,  the improvement of the position of women and of the least advantaged sectors of the  population, peace, human rights, environmental problems and information systems. 1  am pleased to give special praise to the programme for the eradication of illiteracy  with its twin strategy of combating adult illiteracy within a framework of lifelong  education and of providing a renewed primary education system which is universal and  democratic. Taking an overall view of document 25 C/4, 1 should like to make these  basic remarks. Firstly, Unesco must respond to three challenges facing the modern  world, namely peace, development and the protection of the environment. What is  needed here is action to narrow the gap between the industrialized and the  developing countries. Secondly, tare must be taken to ensure that a balance is  maintained between proposed innovations and continuity with the previous Plan. This  balance should apply also between study and action, between content and the means of  implementation. Finally, in the application of plans, the selection of programmes  and activities and the allocation of priorities, account must always be taken of the  deteriorating situation in many developing countries.
(22.11) 1 shall now pass on to the Draft Programme and Budget. Document 25 C/5 is  clear, well-focused and easy to follow, particularly in its exposition of the plan  of action, with the administrative and financial details being left to a separate  document. The objectives of a11 the subprogrammes are well drafted and this greatly  facilitates the task of evaluation. With regard to the Draft Programme and Budget, 1  have a number of comments to make.
(22.12) Efforts must be further pursued to strengthen the presence of Unesco at the  regional level and to promote links with National Commissions. We urgently recommend  a comprehensive assessment of Regional Offices, giving them a new impetus through  provision of the human and material resources needed to permit them to play a
101    positive and effective role in the service of the Member States. The principle  needed here is centralized planning and decentralized implementation, with priority  being given to projects and activities of a regional nature. In this respect, we  should like to see Unesco give priority in filling vacant posts to countries not  previously represented, provided that the candidates fulfil the required conditions.  This would help to bring greater interaction and continuity between the Organization  and the largest possible number of Member States.
(22.13) We would wish to express our regret that Unesco, in the Draft Programme and  Budget, does not give Arab culture the attention which it deserves in the light of  its intellectual stature and treasures. It is to be hoped that the World Decade for  Cultural Development will serve to strengthen the links between the Arab States and  Unesco and that dialogue and new plans and conceptions will see Arab culture given  its due.
(22.14) Kuwait greatly welcomes the proposed activities for the eradication of  illiteracy and affirms the necessity of eliminating adult illiteracy within a  framework of continuing education. Similarly, it welcomes moves for a new system of  primary education which is universal and democratic. At the same time, new financial  resources - both public and private - must be obtained to support these programmes.  Illiteracy is a shameful blot on a Century which has achieved outstanding scientific  and technological progress but which has, thus far, failed to give everyone the  natural and fundamental right to be able to read and Write.
(22.15) We support the activities directed towards Young people and to the  improvement of the status of women. Young people are the society of tomorrow while  woman is the mistress of the home and the protector of the family. The time has corne  for women to take their rightful place and to play an effective role in society.  This is the teaching of Islam.
(22.16) It is a cause for pleasure that the Draft Programme and Budget place a high  priority on the preservation of the cultural heritage. Heading the list in this  field is the need to preserve the unique, historic character of Jerusalem, which is  threatened with obliteration. With the utmost decisiveness, we reaffirm the need for  Unesco to continue - in accordance with its Constitution and every other  convention - to take a11 necessary steps to save occupied Jerusalem, to preserve its  historic character and to maintain the Arab and Islamic sites threatened by  destruction.
(22.17) We applaud Unesco’s efforts in the Draft Programme and Budget for their  defence of human rights in the occupied Arab territories of Palestine and in South  Africa and Namibia as well as for the support given to maintaining the national and  cultural unity of Lebanon.
(22.18) Mr President, only through constructive dialogue, fraternity between  peoples, mutual respect and a genuinely desired international intellectual  co-operation, cari we hope to attain peace and avert war. Only thus cari we preserve  man’s life and dignity in a world where love is victorious over hate, wisdom over  the onslaught of unreason.
23. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Kuwait and 1 now cal1 on  H.E. Mr Svavar Gestsson, Minister of Culture and Education and head of the  delegation of Iceland.
24.1 Mr GESTSSON (Iceland):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, first, 1 wish to  congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to the high office of President  of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of Unesco.
24.2 Mr President, when the founders of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization wrote and adopted the Constitution some
44 years ago, 'believing in full and equal opportunities for education for all,  in the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth, and in the free exchange of  ideas and knowledge', they were inspired by the ideal of peace, which they  wanted to pursue by ensuring 'mutual understanding' among the nations of the  world and 'a truer and more Perfect knowledge of each other's lives'. They  defined the purpose of Unesco as being 'to contribute to peace and security by  promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and  culture'. And the international organization created by these men and women of  great insight and foresight has been doing this for some 43 years.
24.3 Iceland became a Member State of Unesco 25 years ago, in 1964. We have  received and appreciated the Organization's assistance for several of our  projects, notably in the field of culture. We have also on some occasions been    able to provide expertise for Unesco's programmes, especially in the field of  volcanology and geothermal energy. Co-operation between Iceland and Unesco has  always been good and we, together with the other Nordic countries, resolutely  supported the Organization during its crisis period a few years ago when three  Member States withdrew from it. We agree that it is crucial for Unesco to  re-establish the universality of its membership, and have supported the  conciliation-seeking efforts made towards that end.
24.4 Mr President, I shall now refer to some important points in the Draft  Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991  which are before this session of the General Conference for examination and  decision.
24.5 First of all, in the field of education, my government welcomes the  increased prominence given to literacy and education for all. Helping to reduce  and eventually, as we hope, to eradicate completely the world problem of  illiteracy is both a basic challenge and a raison d'être for Unesco. It is true  that literacy work and the struggle against illiteracy generally speaking has  always been and Will remain a mainly national and also very much a local task.  But experience has shown that international organizations like Unesco and  international non-governmental organizations cari also help, and that such  assistance cari sometimes be absolutely central and crucial to the success of a  literacy project.
24.6 Domains in which Unesco's help has often been of importance include  assisting governments in establishing national education plans, providing  training, especially for the trainers of teachers and other literacy workers,  providing infrastructures, equipment and learning materials, conducting  international studies and compiling and publishing world educational statistics,  and even, lastly, the publication of literacy success stories. Such endeavours  should be enhanced and increased during International Literacy Year in 1990, and  it should be ensured that a major part of the budget allocated to activities to  combat illiteracy is geared towards women and girls.
24.7 Secondly, Mr President, 1 would like to mention the field of  educational management and planning, in which we have noted and appreciated the  valuable work done by Unesco's International Institute for Educational Planning  in Paris. Iceland is aware of the importance of and regular increase in the  voluntary financial contributions made by the other four Nordic countries to the  Institute. My ministry wishes to develop its co-operation with IIEP and has  decided, in an action which is also one of Nordic solidarity, to make a modest  annual contribution to it.
24.8 Thirdly, 1 wish to mention the field of sciences. In this connection,  Iceland attaches the greatest importance to the programmes and activities aimed  at better protecting the environment, and my government welcomes the increased  prominence given to this in the Draft Medium-Term Plan. We Icelanders are, as a  nation of fishermen, very much concerned about the state of the sea. As my  colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Iceland said just two weeks ago at  the United Nations General Assembly: 'The living resources of the sea cari be  considered as the world's reserves. The increasing pollution of the seas, not  least caused by radiation and by the habit of using the open seas as a dumping  ground, is therefore a major cause for alarm, not only for coastal States, but  for the world community as a whole'. We trust that these concerns Will be duly,  constantly and reliably taken into account in Unesco's programmes, especially  the programmes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission.
24.9 Fourthly, Mr President, 1 would like to mention the field of culture.  Culture is the field in which Iceland's co-operation with Unesco has been the  closest in the past. We Icelanders tend to see Unesco very much as a cultural  organization and are therefore specially attached to the 'C' in its title. Our  culture, our history and our language are what made us a nation - a proud, small  nation. Unesco has often helped us with some of our projects in the field of  culture, especially in internationalizing some of our works of literature, and  we highly appreciate this and are grateful to Unesco for it. By way of example,
1 cari mention that Unesco has agreed in principle, and is now considering the  details of the matter, to support with us the publication in French of an  'Anthologie de la poésie islandaise contemporaine'. We hope this book cari be  published early next year.
24.10 Finally, 1 wish to inform the General Conference that my government is  seriously considering acceding to Unesco's World Heritage Convention, and 1 hope  to see this happen some time next year. There cari be no doubt that, as other  countries, we cari greatly benefit from full participation in the Convention in  view of the fact that Iceland has some absolutely unique historical and,
103    especially, natural sites which we cari propose for consideration by the World  Heritage Committee after we have signed the Convention. Let me conclude this  point by adding how delighted and grateful we were when we discovered that one  of the first sites to be included in Unesco's World Heritage List was the  L'Ance-aux-Meadows Historic Park in Newfoundland, Canada. We Icelanders also  feel concerned with this, with our Canadian friends, since the people who built  and inhabited the farmhouses in question in the late Middle Ages had the same  origins as ours.
24.11 Mr President, having been a journalist and a political figure a11 my  adult life, it goes without saying that 1 am interested in Unesco's  communication programme, 'Communication in the service of humanity'. And 1 am  also aware of the fact that this is the programme area which has been the most  controversial in Unesco during the last 15 years.
24.12 Unesco has an important role to play in promoting the free flow of  knowledge and ideas, by word or image, using appropriate means of mass  communication, a duty defined for the Organization in its very Constitution. Its  other basic function in this field, communication for development - as embodied,  in particular, in the International Programme for the Development of  Communication which assists developing countries in building information  infrastructures - is also crucial and should be strengthened.
24.13 Much cari be said about the reasons why communication became such a  controversial issue in Unesco. I believe it is not at a11 unfair to say that  Unesco was in a way over-ambitious in this regard at one point, and 1 am  thinking here of the mid- and late 1970s. Unesco was somewhat slow in a way in  realizing how deep was the concern of a large part of the major press organs and  the profession, especially in the western industrialized countries, that Unesco  might eventually adopt something which could - even if that had not been the  intention - lead to some limits on the freedom of the press. Conversely, it is,
1 believe, entirely in order to criticize some of the major organs of the  printed press, particularly in the two western countries which left Unesco in  the mid-1980s, for the way in which they repeatedly wrote about developments in  Unesco; some say they were even distorting facts and blowing other aspects out  of any reasonable proportion. It is even maintained that the position of some  press organs might be properly qualified as a systematic disinformation campaign  against Unesco.
24.14 This being said, however, our eyes should be set on the present and  especially the future in this respect, and not on the past. Re-establishing  universality is vital for this Organization. And 1 gather that for this purpose  what happens to Unesco's communication plan and programme at this General  Conference session is crucial.
24.15 1 presume that nothing could be more frustrating for those who are  irrevocably against Unesco in the countries that withdrew from our midst, for  those who are constantly and actively lobbying against their countries' return,  than a general consensus, also shared by these countries' observer missions, on  Unesco's communication plan and programme at this session of the General  Conference. SO, Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let us a11  join hands and leave no stone unturned to achieve the purpose of universality.  Al1 of us together, we cari do this.
24.16 In this respect, 1 very much welcome the tireless work of the  Director-General to gain wide support for the communication policy. 1 think that  the proposals of the Director-General to be discussed here are indeed a very  important step in the right direction towards our common goal of strengthening  this Organization and towards its universality. Mr President, we need  universality in Unesco. And 1 think that Mr Kalevi Sorsa, Speaker of the Finnish  Parliament, was right when he pointed out, addressing the Organization's  Executive Board as a distinguished guest on 6 October last, that careful  consideration should be given to the word 'balance' in this context. As he said,  and 1 quote, 'there are real fears behind attitudes' that are concerned about  aw 'limitations of freedom'. Mr Sorsa suggested that a combination of high  'professional skills of journalists' and 'free competition between various forms  of communication' was a viable formula. 1 wish to endorse these perspicacious  ideas.
24.17 Mr President, 1 am about to conclude. Mr Director-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, 1 wish to say the following to you: 'May you have success in your  tireless efforts to reform and strengthen Unesco'. Thank you, Mr President.
25. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Iceland, and 1 now have pleasure  in inviting H.E. Mr Ghassan Al-Halabi, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic, to take the floor.
(26.1) Mr AL-HALABI (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me the greatest pleasure,  Mr President, to congratulate you on the occasion of your election to the presidency  of this Conference. That you have been elected to this office under present world  circumstances is, we are sure, a mark of esteem for qualities which will enable you  to conduct the business of the Conference successfully and thus to fulfil the high  hopes which our peoples place in Unesco. 1 should also like to congratulate your  predecessor, Mr Putzeys Alvarez, for his safe handling of our vesse1 during his term  at the helm.
(26.2) Mr President, we have been summoned hither from a11 parts of the globe to  build the future, the world of today and tomorrow. Looking at the present state of  this world and at the ways in which it might develop, there are conflicting  prospects. In some ways, peoples today are closer together than they have ever been  and the means exist to bring a better life for everyone. At the same time, however,  the world is beset by confusion and danger and the very survival of mankind is  threatened by the arms race and the stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction. If  such weapons were used, no winners would emerge from the holocaust. Meanwhile,  famine is an ever-present threat which claims millions of victims every year. The  natural environment is polluted by man’s activities. Finally, flying in the face of  the most elementary values, there is the persistent violation of human rights and  the freedom of peoples together with crying injustice in certain aspects of  international relations.
(26.3) Nevertheless, with détente, we are beginning to see a glimmer of hope. The  peaceful settlement of a number of armed conflicts and a sudden halt to the arms  race have revived hopes that the world Will now allocate new resources to the one  problem which is the true responsibility of every nation, i.e. the closing of the  inexcusable gap which divides the world into a very small number of rich countries  and a large number of poor ones.
(26.4) Mr President, the growing interdependence which has characterized the  development of the world in the second half of the twentieth Century has been  paralleled by deepening contradictions. During the decades which followed the Second  World War, there was rapid economic growth, probably without precedent in history.  However, despite this growth, there was little redistribution of industrial capacity  and the share of the industrialized countries grew disproportionately compared with  that of the Third World. Regrettably, though the Third World has achieved political  independence, the least-developed countries are struggling under such a massive  burden of debt to a small number of developed countries that many are unable to meet  onerous interest payments and development prospects have shrunk, or in some cases  have completely disappeared. The state of misery and bondage, concentrated largely  in the Third World, is well known. Today’s economists have had to bring the word  ‘poverty’ back from the past to describe this situation of poor food, housing,  health and education and desperately low income. For a11 its constraints and special  circumstances, the Third World succeeded in laying the theoretical foundations for  development but, in the majority of cases, implementation has led to a return to the  unjust economic system imposed from without.
(26.5) TO break free of these economic chains - even partially - a new economic  order is essential. In 1974, the United Nations General Assembly approved a  declaration and programme of action for the establishment of a new economic order  intended to enable the developing countries to exploit their natural resources on  better terms. With the passage of time, however, and despite the many and varied  negotiations under the so-called North-South dialogue, it would not appear that  there has been any progress towards achievement of these aims. Whether the reason  for this derives from conflict of interests or differences as to the nature of the  world economic order, one thing remains plain to everyone: a minority continues to  live in comfort or even opulence while whole peoples remain below the poverty line  and every year hundreds of thousands die of starvation. This is a problem to which  Unesco must address itself if the moral role of the Organization is to be asserted.  The multilateral co-operation developed in recent years by the United Nations will  be indispensable if the options available to us during the last decade of this  Century are to work in our collective favour, yielding a just peace among nations, a  division of the fruits of development between the rich countries and those less well  endowed, a closing of the gap between them and the attainment of human rights and  basic freedoms.
(26.6) Mr President, the establisbment of peace is necessarily linked with respect  for the fundamental rights of all. However, the peace which we a11 desire remains  under threat SO long as there are conflicts and sources of tension, declared or  undeclared, SO long as the strong continue to prey on the weak. A shift in attitudes  has begun which promises to pave the way to a new order in international relations,  putting an end to war and showing peace to be constructive and creative. However, if  peace is to flourish, there must be respect for the fundamental rights of men and
4  women , guarantees of the right to self-determination, proper living standards for  individuals and integrated development for societies.
(26.7) Mr President, though we aspire to achieve peace, it is sad to see that, in  fact, certain entities and regimes continue to subjugate others with the crudest  colonial methods. Aggression continues against the Arab world with the Zionist  occupation of lands in Palestine, the West Bank and Ghaza, in Syria’s Golan Heights  and in South Lebanon. This occupation is an ordeal like no other suffered by peoples  whose lands have been taken by military force. Modern history had no parallel for  the crimes committed by Zionism in occupied Palestine. A whole people has been  driven out to live in tents for more than a generation while its lands are  expropriated, its possessions stolen. The people who remained on the land have been  the victims of other crimes - Arab villages destroyed, houses demolished and people  tortured, in many cases to the point of death. What more proof is needed of these  violations of the Fourth Geneva Convention, The Hague Convention and the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights?! Through radio, television and the press, the  international media have revealed the barbarie methods used by Zionism in its  assault on the fundamental freedoms of the Palestinians and the population of  occupied Golan in order to put down the Intifada and prevent the heroic Arab people  of the territories from exercising their natural right to self-determination on  their own national soil. Without exception, this savagery has caused outrage among  a11 peace-loving peoples who have voiced their condemnation. For more than two  years, the schools, universities and other educational establishments have been  closed. Houses have been demolished and freedom fighters expelled from their homes  in Palestine. Arab land has been seized to build settlements for an invasion of  Zionist immigrants while Arab water has been stolen and diverted to supply the  settlers. With complete disregard for human rights, children, women and old men have  been slain. TO a11 the cries of anger and denunciation coming from around the world,  Zionism has turned a deaf ear. Yet, history shows us that triumph cornes in the end  for people struggling to obtain their liberty; the dark night of oppression Will  finally be over and the day of freedom Will dawn in victory. We are confident that  the flame of freedom will pass on to other peoples fighting for their freedom. After  a bitter struggle, heavy sacrifices and much suffering, the people of Namibia stand  on the threshold of independence, despite a11 the obstacles placed in their way by  the racist government of South Africa. The day will also corne when the people of  South Africa will triumph over the racist minority that rules their country and they  will then exercise their right to self-determination on their own soil. Like Fascism  and Nazism, a11 racist systems will be consigned to history, never to return.
(26.8) Mr President, while the arms race and the stockpiling of nuclear and  chemical weapons continue to pose a threat to the future of mankind, no less a  danger lies in the destruction of the environment and the loss of natural resources.  The importance of the environment to man came to be realized when the damage was  already serious enough to menace human survival, with crises and catastrophes acting  as harbingers of the disturbance to the natural balance between flora, fauna and  atmosphere. The signs of disequilibrium are many and various and the evidence mounts  daily in direct proportion to ill-managed industrial growth. Thus, for example, we  see the exhaustion or depletion of non-renewable resources which are essential to  human activity. We, for our part, believe that Unesco cari play a role in this  domain. We also believe that there is a place in the curriculum for environmental  education and that a concern for the environment cari be instilled through the  school. As a result, we have introduced this subject into the school programme in  order to emphasize the connection between the occupation chosen by the student and  the needs, characteristics and resources of the environment in which he lives. The  government, moreover, is considering the establishment of a national commission for  environmental affairs, to be chaired by a minister of State. The commission would be  responsible for overall planning to protect the various environmental systems  existing in Syria.
(26.9) Mr President, we very much appreciate the efforts exerted by Unesco to  prepare document 25 C/5. The document is well thought out and covers the  educational, cultural and scientific aspects which preoccupy Member States aspiring  to develop their educational systems in the service of social and economic progress.  We in Syria studied with great tare the Draft Programme and Budget and forwarded our  comments to Unesco. Our delegation will participate in the discussion in the various  specialized committees and Will state our views. At this point, we would also like  to say that we support the recommendations made by the Executive Board at its
131st session with regard to the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget. Let us also point out that we consider it essential for Arab culture to  occupy its proper place and for its activities to be duly financed in Unesco’s  programmes and the third Medium-Term Plan, in recognition of the fundamental and  constructive role which it has played in world culture. Since, as everyone knows,  the Arab world is overflowing with archaeological and scientific treasures, the  history of the region has corne in for re-examination. Moreover, the Arabie language  and the cultural, scientific and spiritual heritage are shared by many peoples  particularly in the Islatnic world. Though this culture may be neglected in some
109    quarters, it is high time that Unesco should treat it justly. Indeed, the  Organization must eschew a narrow country-based attitude in dealing with the  subject. Anyone looking at a list of Arab masterpieces in the Unesco record might  conclude that the Organization did not consider Arab culture, thought and literature  to be a11 of a piece. We, for our part, would like to see a comprehensive outlook in  which the rich diversity of Arab culture is brought within a single panorama  relating it to a single nation.
(26.10) Mr President, we in Syria are making great efforts in the field of  education and higher education. What we are doing grows from authentic Arab roots  but is, at the same time, open to give and take with the educational experience of  the rest of the world. In steering towards its goals, our system combines continuity  with innovation. We stay abreast of modern developments, responding to them and  taking what is good. We look to the horizons of the future and are constantly  evolving in order to respond with a positive contribution to the needs of overall  development while, at the same time, meeting the challenges of our age, absorbing  what is new and reacting to it with success. Education in oui country has been at  centre stage ever since the revolution of 13 March 1963. The principle of democracy  in education and equal opportunities for a11 has been applied on the widest scale.  The doors of the school have been opened to people who never dreamed that they would  one day enter them. The importance of education was further reinforced by the  campaign of reform carried through by President Hafiz Al-Assad in 1970. By 1989, the  number of pupils of both sexes in pre-university education had reached 3,337,773, a  figure equal to approximately 31 per cent of the total population. Moreover, there  has been a considerable shift towards technical, vocational and craft education. In  fact, the current plan for this domain, which has been in effect since 1988, project  figures of 70 per cent in vocational education by 1995, compared with 30 per cent in  general education, studying academic and technical subjects.
(26.11) In the field of higher education, the State has broadened the possibilities  of entry in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities for all. Thus,  working class students are able to enter university at negligible cost and their  expenses are met by the State.
(26.12) Mr President, despite the emergence of many difficulties, it is clear that  multilateral co-operation is indispensable. In a world where change leaves its mark  on every aspect of the life of individuals and societies, the responsibility borne  by Unesco and the need of others for the Organization are now greater than ever.  This is a11 the more true since Unesco’s Constitution charges it to contribute to  action for the maintenance of peace and security. Now, more than ever, there is a  realization of the close links between peace, development, the environment and  respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. This testifies to the fact that  there has been a revival of the spirit which animated those who laid down the  Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of Unesco. Allow me,  Mr President, to reaffirm our belief in Unesco and our constant support for its high  ideals. TO turn away from them would be to deny the very basis of the Organization’s  existence. Allow me, in this context, to recall those words of wisdom: ’ many  voices, one world’ . Finally, may 1 conclude by thanking you for your attention and  by thanking the host State for providing Unesco with the facilities needed for its  work.
27. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic and 1  now invite H.E. Mr Thomas Trikoukis, General Secretary of the Ministry of  Culture and head of the delegation of Greece, to take the floor.
28.1 Mr TRIKOUKIS (Greece):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 should like first of a11 to express to you, Mr President, my  sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election to this post, as well as  my best wishes for the successful conduct and fruitful outcome of the present  General Conference session for the benefit of Unesco and of a11 its Member  States.
28.2 Let me also address my warm thanks to the Director-General of Unesco,  Mr Federico Mayor, for the excellent preparation of this session. May 1 pay a  tribute especially to his total devotion to the objectives of the Organization  and to his ceaseless efforts towards their accomplishment.
28.3 Mr President, Greece firmly believes that the co-operation taking place  within Unesco - an crganization dealing, in an intersectoral and  pluridisciplinary manner, with most important fields for the progress and
4  welfare of humanity - is in the interests of every country, and primarily of the  less privileged ones. Unesco's duty is significant in assisting developing  countries in establishing an educational, scientific and cultural infrastructure  indispensable for their global development. The industrialized countries  themselves may benefit from their co-operation with the developing ones, since  exchanges within Uneso's system have a reciprocal effect, enriching a11 parties  involved.
28.4 It is precisely for this reason that Greece is convinced that it is our  obligation to restore and safeguard the principle of universality inherent in  the very nature of this Organization; we must work thoroughly and carefully and  prepare the way to regain the universal character necessary for the unhindered  functioning of an international organization such as Unesco.
28.5 Mr President, 1 consider it appropriate first of a11 to make some  aeneral remarks on the Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 (25 C/4) and the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 (25 C/5), as they have ‘been pfoposed by  the Director-General and modified through consensus by the Executive Board, in a  spirit of close co-operation and constructive dialogue.
28.6 Mr President, we are in agreement with the conception of the  Organization's overall action under the Draft Medium-Term Plan. The balance  between continuity and innovation reached in the Draft Plan does help face new  needs and foreseeable trends through a brief evaluation of the achievements  marked in the implementation of the second Medium-Term Plan.
28.7 At the same time, we consider the choice of priorities in Unesco's  spheres of action in the next six years as reasonable. The two essential  criteria adopted apparently contributed to this choice, that is the right  balance between action and reflection and between continuing some of the  activities and updating others, and the effectiveness of implementation.
28.8 In this respect, the concentration of programmes and activities in the  areas regarded as deserving priority should be praised as a realistic attitude  towards the implementation of the Plan. The same goes for the aim ‘to do less in  order to do better', smartly introduced by the Director-General, which mw  guarantee a real and visible impact on the activities proposed in the Plan.
28.9 Al1 in all, we deem the treatment of the various programmes included in  the Draft Plan balanced, competent and pragmatic. We hope that the Draft Plan  Will prove a valuable policy instrument that Will enable Unesco to proceed with  the reforms needed and fulfil its high task and duty in the coming six years.
28.10 Mr President, 1 now corne to some major comments on the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1990-1991. Prepared in line with the Draft Medium-Term Plan  concerning programmes, subprogrammes, and programme actions, it makes an equally  worthy document which covers, in an innovative way as to conception and  presentation, the first two-year implementation period of the Plan to be carried  out with a view to effectiveness, concentration and simplification of the  programme.
28.11 As far as the Participation Programme is concerned, we agree to its  increase proposed in the Draft through interna1 budgetary adjustments. In fact,  this Programme has proved to be of considerable interest to Member States, which  may obtain Unesco's co-operation for activities to be carried out at their own  request.
28.12 Concerning the question of budgetary growth, we would be inclined to  favour a flexible application of the zero-growth principle, to enable the  Director-General to fulfil the Organization's programme. A certain budgetary  increase could be warranted, for example, through a reduction in the length of  the Executive Board sessions.
28.13 Lastly, with special reference to Major Programme Area III (Culture:  past, present and future) of the Draft Programme and Budget, 1 should stress the  keen interest of my country in maintaining the financing of the activities of  AIESEE and CIBAL on the studies of South-East EuroDean cultures under the .  subprogramme on cultural identities and intercultural relations. It should be  noted that the activities of these two scientific institutions are of great  significance for the countries of the Balkan and Mediterranean regions. For this  reason, we believe that the aforementioned studies must be retained in  document 25 C/5 and that AIESEE and CIBAL must go on enjoying Unesco's moral and  financial support SO as to be able to complete their ongoing projects.
28.14 Mr President, 1 turn now to questions pertaining to this general policy  debate. TO start with, 1 have to underline that Greece follows with great  concern the question of Jerusalem and of the implementation of the relevant  resolution of the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference. This  question, which is related to the preservation of the cultural heritage of the  occupied Holy City, does not lack seemingly political implications.
28.15 We appreciate the Director-General's measures and efforts, especially  the decision to send a fact-finding mission of his persona1 representatives to  Jerusalem. We also appreciate the successive decisions adopted through consensus  by the Executive Board. We are sure that they both Will keep alive Unesco's  interest in the question in the future, as long as the occupation of Jerusalem  continues.
28.16 Another question bearing similar political ramifications is the one  concerning the implementation of the resolution of the twenty-fourth session of  the General Conference concerning educational and cultural institutions in the  occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. This  resolution aims mainly at the restoration and exercise of academic freedoms in  those institutions.
28.17 My country is sensitive to this question too, the more SO since it has  to do with human beings, especially Young people and students. We therefore  express our satisfaction at the Director-General's initiatives, notably with a  view to accomplishing the mission of his persona1 representative to the occupied  Arab territories. Our satisfaction also refers to the direction taken by the  Executive Board in the series of decisions which it has adopted on the issue by  consensus. Let them both go on with their action to improve the situation in  those institutions.
28.18 At this point, we would like to mention that Greece's sensitivity about  this question was expressed in substance one year ago when my country was among  the first to respond to the appeal made by the Director-General in April 1988,  as requested by the Conference at its previous session, and offered a voluntary  contribution to the Unesco Fellowship Fund for the higher education of students  in the occupied Arab territories.
28.19 We greet with great satisfaction the action taken by the  Director-General in application of the resolutions of the twenty-second,  twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions of the General Conference related to  Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the promotion of  human rights and the elimination of colonialism and racism. This action was of a  diversified character covering the fields of education, natural sciences, social  and human sciences, culture, communication and public information, and extended  to co-operation with the United Nations system and international governmental  and non-governmental organizations. It was also properly associated with the  world celebrations of the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights (1948) and of the bicentenary of the Declaration of the Rights of  Man and of the Citizen.
28.20 We believe that the Organization's activities in this respect Will be  better focused and more visible in the third Medium-Term Plan, where they are  rightly regrouped under a separate major programme area. Greece Will give full  support to it because she is deeply concerned with the effective protection of  the whole range of human rights, be they educational, cultural, scientific,  civil and political, social or economic. My country has been firmly opposed to  the violation of human rights in different countries, and has repeatedly  condemned the inhuman system of apartheid applied notably by South Africa  against her black majority.
28.21 Following and in conjunction with the previous ideas, we address our  congratulations to the Direct-or-General on having convened the Yamoussoukro  Congress last summer in Côte d'ivoire, in pursuance of the resolution of the  twenty-fourth session of the General Conference on the promotion of contacts and  co-operation among specialists in education, science and culture in order to  contribute to the attainment of Unesco's objectives. Departing from the main  themes of peace among men and of peace in the context of the relations between  humankind and a quality environment, the Congress unanimously adopted the  Yamoussoukro Declaration reflecting the preceding discussions on subthemes such  as the Seville Statement on Violence, the preparation of societies to live in  peace, development for a11 in the service of peace, man's evolutionary  responsibility and the preservation of genetic diversity. We expect a positive  follow-up of the work carried out by the Yamoussoukro Congress along the lines  of the Programme and Budget.
28.22 A praiseworthy mention has to be made of the Seville Statement on  Violence adopted in May 1986 following a meeting convened on the initiative of  the Spanish National Commission for Unesco. This meeting was attended by  specialists of various disciplines, including Mr Federico Mayor, then Professor  of Biochemistry at the Universidad Autonoma of Madrid, and challenged on purely  scientific grounds the viewpoints used to justify war and violence, the two  eternal threats to peace and security.
28.23 In this context, we ought to recall that Greece has taken different  initiatives, not only on the bilateral, but also on the regional and  international levels, for the establishment of peace through the reduction of  tensions and the creation of a climate of confidence and stability in the world.  Relating to Unesco in particular, we underline the holding of the first Peace  Olympiad, which took place in Athens last March under the persona1 patronage and  in the presence of the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor. This meeting  assembled a great number of representatives from 70 countries, and was focused  on ways of ensuring peace through co-operation and development.
28.24 Mr President, in the final part of my intervention 1 wish to make a  specific reference to culture. Greece attaches primary importance to the  promotion of cultural values in their totality and therefore strongly supports  every relevant activity of Unesco and its competent agencies.
28.25 We would like to point out our acute concern about the protection of  the world cultural and natural heritage under the Convention of 1972. My country  is actually a member of the corresponding Intergovernmental Committee, and has  been playing an active role in its work.
28.26 Greece is equally interested in the World Decade for Cultural  Development, and follows the action of its Intergovernmental Committee closely.  This action has to take into consideration the various aspects of culture, such  as the preservation of the cultural heritage as an inseparable part of the  history of mankind, cultural identity as a foundation of development in the  political, social and economic spheres, intercultural relations as a source of  mutual enrichment and world solidarity, and cultural creation as a superior  expression of freedom.
28.27 Greece's interest in the promotion of the World Decade was expressed by  the early establishment of a National Committee; it has also been essentially  manifested through the first Meeting of the National Committees for the Decade  and the National Commissions for Unesco of the Europe Region organized in Athens  last January. This meeting gathered together representatives from 22 European  countries; apart from setting a precedent, it laid the basis for further impetus  being given to European co-operation in implementing the programme of the Decade.
28.28 Finally, Mr President, we wish, coming back to the cultural dimension  of Unesco, to stress the whole-hearted support of Greece for the restitution of  cultural property to the countries of origin. In this domain, the  Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its  Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation has a  vital role to play. Our great interest in its task is underlined by the fact  that my country, at present a member of the Committee, has invited it to hold  its seventh session in Athens in the spring of 1991.
28.29 In this regard, we should like to recall the various démarches made by  Greece to recover the friezes of Parthenon, a symbol not only of European  civilization, but also of this Organization itself. Precisely to stress the  unique value of the Acropolis, it was the Director-General in person who  uncovered last March the plaque to commemorate the inscription of this historic  site on the World Heritage List in December 1987. We are happy to announce that  the Ministry of Culture has already launched an international architectural  competition for the design of the New Acropolis Museum destined eventually to  house the Parthenon marbles.
28.30 Mr President, in concluding my statement, 1 wish to reaffirm my  country's resolute confidence in and commitment to Unesco's objectives, as well  as to reiterate our strong faith in the usefulness of co-operation within the  framework of the international organizations of which Unesco constitutes an  integral and important part. Thank you, Mr President.
29. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Greece and 1 now invite  H.E. Mr Christoffer Taxell, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of  Finland, to take the floor.
30.1 Mr TAXELL (Finland):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, this General Conference is meeting at a crucial stage in  the life of Unesco. We are assembled here to decide on the objectives of the  Organization for the 1990s. Will the objectives that we Will set for education,  science and culture provide an appropriate response to the challenges of the  last decade of this Century? 1s the Organization doing its utmost to respond to  these demanding challenges? Are the Member States - my own country included -  doing everything possible to assist the Organization in this task? In deciding  how to answer these questions, we shall wield decisive influence on the  development and status of the Organization on the threshold of the twenty-first  Century.
30.2 1 am convinced that under your guidance, Mr President, our  deliberations Will be brought to a constructive and positive conclusion. 1  congratulate you on your election to preside over the General Conference. Let me  also congratulate the Director-General on the excellent preparations for the  General Conference. They bear witness to your devotion to Unesco.
30.3 In the intention of saving the time of the Conference, 1 shall read out  parts of my statement, but submit the full text for inclusion in the rec0rds.l
30.4 In my address at the previous session of the General Conference, 1  expressed my faith in the 'powers of renewal' inherent in multilateral  co-operation and the re-emerging strength of the United Nations system, despite  a11 the difficulties it was experiencing at that time. Since then we have seen  further positive developments in international co-operation and the growing  importance of the United Nations family of organizations. Finland, together with  the other Nordic States, has always supported the United Nations system.  Unrelenting and constant support for Unesco is a corner-stone in our  international cultural co-operation.
30.5 Support for the United Nations system should not, however, be expressed  only in words, but should also be translated into action, This applies also t0  our attitude to the financial difficulties which Unesco is experiencing, for  which concrete remedies should be sought. It is therefore on the basis of an  evaluation of the programme proposed for the next biennium that my government is  prepared to accept the budgetary reinforcement of 2.5 per cent proposed by the  Director-General. We also feel confident that the funds in question Will be used  purely for programme activities as the Director-General has assured us.
30.6 The difficulties we have experienced over these past few years have  made it necessary for Unesco to re-examine its working methods. The reform  process launched four years ago has already produced some significant results.  But it must continue; a great deal still remains to be done. We must now  translate the objectives defined by the Constitution, as well as other agreed  priorities, into a programme which meets the requirements and challenges of the  future.
30.7 The Director-General deserves our full support in this process, in  which he himself plays a key role. The primary goal should be to strengthen  Unesco, to instil new confidence in the Organization, and through this, to  restore the universality of the Organization.
30.8 Our principal tool for achieving renewal in Unesco is the Medium-Term  Plan. We have before us the Draft Plan drawn up by the Director-General and the  recommendations made by the Executive Board. It is now essential for the General  Conference to discuss the Plan in a constructive spirit of good Will and mutual  confidence.
30.9 In our joint reply to the questionnaire concerning the preparation of  the third Medium-Term Plan, the five Nordic governments stated that the Plan  offers opportunities for renewal by creating long-term objectives, setting clear  programme priorities, developing working methods and streamlining the structure  and activities of the Secretariat. I welcome the fact that many of the ideas put  forward by the Nordic countries are included in the Draft Plan. My government is  satisfied, on the whole, with the Draft.
1. The speaker provided the Secretariat with the full text of his  statement which, with the authorization of the President, is reproduced  in full in the annex to this Verbatim record.
30.10 Development is one - perhaps the major - challenge facing humanity as  we move into the twenty-first Century. We must find a way to respond to this  global challenge. It requires imaginative approaches and solutions. In view of  scarce resources, it is essential to intensify international co-operation and  ensure better CO-ordination of our efforts within the entire United Nations  system. The United Nations General Assembly Will soon meet in a special session  to discuss the international economic situation and the new International  Development Strategy for the 1990s. In this process Finland has emphasized the  necessity to develop and invest in human resources in a11 their forms.
30.11 What does development of human resources mean? First and foremost, it  means education for all. My government welcomes the initiative taken by Unesco  to convene a World Conference on Education for All. The fact that this  conference is jointly organized and sponsored by four agencies belonging to the  United Nations family - Unesco itself, UNDP, UNICEF and the World Bank - is  something very positive. It is a recognition of the need to increase  co-operation and CO-ordination within the system on an issue which is of global  importance and needs urgent attention. Since Unesco is the only organization  specialized in education, it has a particular responsibility and a leading role  in the preparation of the conference. Naturally Unesco Will also have a central  role in the follow-up and implementation of the results of the conference in  Thailand.
30.12 Because of the very considerable importance which Finland attaches to  promoting literacy and education, we have decided to support the COnferenCe  financially. In addition to $25(\,000, which is the co-sponsorship fee, my  government has allocated an additional contribution of approximately $70,000 for  the conference. This contribution is intended to finance the preparation of the  round table on building capacity to design and produce instructional material  and to support the participation of the representatives of developing countries  in the conference.
30.13 As concerns education in general, 1 stress the primary importance of  literacy. 1 am therefore delighted to note that the Draft Medium-Term Plan  places an appropriate focus on literacy. International Literacy Year in 1990  Will provide an excellent opportunity for us to show international solidarity.  Without a dramatic improvement in literacy on a global scale our efforts to  promote sustainable development and structural reform run the risk of becoming  futile. 1 wish to underline that illiteracy is not a problem confined to the  developing countries. It is a problem which concerns rich as well as poor  countries.
30.14 In the view of the Nordic countries, literacy comprises not only basic  education of adequate duration and high quality for children, but also adult  education. Priority must be given to women and girls, particularly in rural  areas. Literacy work should stress a literate and literacy-sustaining  environment at a11 stages. The Nordic countries also wish to underline that  minimum skills in reading, writing and arithmetic have little relevance if they  are not linked to a larger learning situation. 1 stress the importance of  functional literacy, that is of literacy in its widest sense Unesco must devote  attention also to this aspect of literacy.
30.15 Mr President, the environment is another enormous challenge facing  humanity today. There is an important link between environment and development.
1t Will require substantially greater resources, increasing international  co-operation and CO-ordination and a mobilization of a11 available scientific  expertise. And it Will require a11 this very quickly - now! Having implemented  major scientific programmes for decades, Unesco has long traditions in  environmental questions. The Organization must now strengthen its work in its  field of competence and co-operate fully with other organizations engaged in  promoting a better environment on a global scale. In this respect, the United  Nations Conference on Development and the Environment to be held in 1992 Will be  the most important joint effort before the turn of the Century. 1 am convinced  that Unesco has a significant role to play in bringing the educational and  scientific aspects, as well as the social and human dimensions, into the search  for solutions to the environmental issues. This should and must be Unesco's  contribution.
30.16 Mr President, the concepts of culture and cultural policy elaborated by  Unesco since the early 1970s culminated in the declaration of the World Decade  for Cultural Development. This Decade is one of the priorities of Unesco. It  should be efficiently implemented. Finland would like to see the cultural  dimension of development included in the cultural programme and a more  pronounced role given to cultural policy and participation in culture in the  next programme and budget. The cultural dimension is a contribution which only
115    Unesco cari make to the development strategies devised and implemented by the  international community.
30.17 Mr President, Finland has continuously emphasized the importance of  freedom of expression and the free flow of information. Al1 the Nordic countries  are open and democratic societies with a long tradition of free and independent  journalism. A well-functioning communication system is vital for a democratic  society, in terms both of society itself and of its people. At the same time, a  free flow of information plays a decisive role in promoting understanding  between peoples and different cultures. Finland has stressed the need for  practical measures for developing communication infrastructures and resources in  developing countries. Finland has supported the establishment and activities of  the International Programme for the Development of Communication from the very  beginning. 1 wish to underline that developing countries must be assisted in  building well-functioning communication systems. We therefore endorse this new  approach and new strategy. It is my sincere hope that the communication issue  Will not cause a divisive and inflamed discussion during this General Conference  session. The issue is important, but it must be seen in its right perspective  and proportion by all. Far more difficult and far more complicated problems have  been and Will be solved through negotiations between men of firm purpose and  good Will.
30.18 Mr President, Finland has submitted together with Cameroon, a draft  resolution concerning the development of social sciences in Unesco. The proposa1  is based on an in-depth study made by the Executive Board. It underlines the  role of Unesco in the international development of the social and human sciences  as scientific disciplines and we emphasize the contribution which the social  sciences cari make to a11 aspects of Unesco's programme. 1 hope that this  initiative Will meet with the approval of the Conference.
30.19 Unesco cari make a contribution to human rights and peace. We have  stressed that in this field Unesco should have a professional impact and  concentrate on projects which are feasible and as free from political  controversies as possible. We give priority to education, information and  documentation in this field. It is now time to put into effect the integrated  plan for education for international understanding, the various projects for  human rights teaching and the information and documentation services which  Unesco cari render. The term 'clearing house' is a fitting description of  Unesco's fundamental function in this area. It should not be understood as a  mere centre or data bank situated in Paris, but as a dynamic global forum  actively co-operating with a11 the parties concerned, including non-governmental  organizations.
30.20 Mr President, 1 have outlined the priority areas which my government  considers to be fundamental within Unesco and which constitute Unesco's tasks in  international co-operation. Over the past years Unesco has shown its potential  for reassuming its status as a universal forum for co-operation in education,  science, culture and communication. This General Conference Will determine  Unesco's future. Let us join forces in a constructive and open dialogue to build  a stronger Unesco. Thank you, Mr President.
31. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Finland and 1 give the floor to  H.E. Mrs Fatma Muktar, Secretary-General of the People's Committee for Education  and head of the delegation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
(32.1) MS MUKHTAR (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabie):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, heads  and members of delegations, it gives me much pleasure, in the name of the Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya to greet you warmly on the occasion of the twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference of Unesco. 1 should also like to congratulate you,  Mr President, as well as the Vice-Presidents and 1 wish success to everyone.
(32.2) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, since the revolution in the  land of the Jamahiriya, people have never been held in higher respect. Such a result  should be no surprise, for the aim of the people’s revolution is freedom and a final  end to a11 forms of oppression, tyranny and exploitation. This is clearly stated in  the ‘Green Book of Human Rights in the Age of the Masses’, section 15 of which  stipulates that education and knowledge are a natural right and that everyone is  entitled to choose the education best suited to his needs and the knowledge that he  desires, without direction or compulsion. In oui country, educational policies and
118    the curricula extend beyond the school to reach every man and woman. Modern means  and resources are deployed to give everyone the opportunity of education at a11  levels and in a11 forms.
(32.3) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, the educational system in  the Jamahiriya is based qualitatively and quantitatively on the needs and  circumstances of the age, thus ensuring that there is no division between education  and life. The system which has been created is known as the ‘new educational  structure’, the philosophy of which is to establish specialized institutes in a11  fields of science and technology SO as to keep up with the changes engendered by the  scientific and technological revolution. The aim is to provide the means of  technical education and to permit the acquisition of the necessary knowledge in the  field of early specialization. Thus, the student has the opportunity to practise a  useful profession while, at the same time, gaining basic general skills and  knowledge. This type of education covers most scientific fields, especially in the  fundamental sciences, engineering, medicine, agriculture, the social sciences and  the arts. Graduates of the institutes may continue their university career or may  enter the labour market in their field of technical specialization. Hence, the  traditional concept of general education is tending to disappear. Account has also  been taken of the fact that technical and vocational education is a major component  in the scale of general education at various levels. As a result, the new education  system is able to perform the required function and to achieve, in some measure, the  desired balance, eliminating the gap which might otherwise arise between people  educated in different ways. Moreover, the close link between basic and university  education means that the student is easily able to transfer from one to the other.  Three years ago, the Jamahiriya established the General Popular Committee (Ministry)  for Professional Formation and Training which has been assigned the task of  preparing and forming professional and technical personnel and supervising the  specialized institutes together with the professional training centres for various  fields. The abject is to ensure the supply of personnel for ambitious development  plans and to boost the socio-economic and cultural progress of society.
(32.4) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, Unesco’s twenty-fifth  session is being held at an important time, with the Organization about to embark on  a six-year medium-term plan which Will take it up to the threshold of the  twenty-first Century. Faced with the vast changes and difficulties apparent in every  field of education, science and culture, Unesco must advance steadily and surely in  the accomplishment of its noble mission, dealing with such issues as the persistent  violation of basic human rights, racial discrimination, drug trafficking, pollution  and other social and moral problems of the modern world.
(32.5) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, the Draft Programme and  Budget and the draft third Medium-Term Plan are among the most important documents  of the present session since they comprise integrated plans of action, programmes  and activities whi ch faithfully reflect the direction and strategy of our  Organization. Al1 of the documents concerned went through different stages of  modification, development and CO-ordination until the final version satisfied a11  Unesco’s requirements. 1 have to tel1 you that 1 am filled with optimism when 1 read  these documents and see how true and Perfect is their orientation, how enlightened  the thought , how germane the opinions, particularly with regard to the development  of human resources, the defence of human rights, the protection of the environment  and the assertion of cultural identity.
(32.6) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, 1 would not seek to pass  judgement on either of these documents or to make any appraisal but what 1 would  like to do is to comment, for example, on the programme area ‘Culture: past ,  present and future’. It seems to me that, within the framework of Programme 111.1,  activities relating to creation, creativity and participation in cultural life are  confined to certain regions - apparently to the exclusion of others - and this could  be in conflict with the aims of the third Medium-Term Plan. 1 would suggest,  therefore, that this item be reviewed to ensure that equal opportunities are given  to all.
(32.7) With regard to Programme III.2 - ‘Preservation and revival of the cultural  heritage’ - one highly significant point has been omitted and this is the question  of the social and environmental factors which act to the detriment of the cultural  heritage. A case in point is the Palestinian cultural heritage which the Zionist  authorities are seeking to distort and obliterate. Despite numerous resolutions by  Unesco as the body with overall responsibility in matters of education and culture,  blatant attempts are being made to Judaize Palestinian students through educational  philosophy, the curricula and every other means of weakening their links with Arab  and Islamic history and culture. 1 would propose, therefore, that this programme  should refer expressly to what is happening in Palestine since such racial  persecution inevitably distorts and eventually destroys the spirit and the physical  manifestations of the cultural heritage. In this context, 1 should like to pay  tribute to Unesco for its intention to continue protecting the old city of  Jerusalem, as stated in paragraph 3215 of the Draft Programme and Budget.
(32.8) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, education in every society  seeks to preserve an existing culture and identity, to maintain them in the present  and to prepare the way for the future. There is no doubt that, among the countries  of the world, the Arab States are distinguished by their unity of language, culture  and history. Tightly linked by their common history and culture, they constitute a  single nation. Despite this fact, it would seem that the Arab world is the only  region to receive no significant mention in any activity, whether in the draft  cultural programmes or in the subprogramme ‘Books and the production of cultural  goods ’ .
(32.9) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, the Jamahiriya expresses  its full support for Unesco in its profound understanding and awareness of the  crises faced by humanity and in its efforts to tackle these problems effectively  through conferences on education, culture, science, communications, information and  the like. Unesco cari always be relied on to act as a ‘House of Wisdom’ for the  world, a place where things are seen as they really are, remote from narrow regional  influences and vested interests and from the deliberate distortion of ideas and  spiritual values by those who have exploited freedom of speech to disseminate lies  and misconceptions. The delegation of the Jamahiriya requests, therefore, a review  of Programme III.3 - ‘Cultural exchanges and enrichment of cultural identity’ - and,  in particular, paragraph 258 of the draft third Medium-Term Plan in order to  maintain and respect cultural identity and to condemn any attempts to insult  fundamental beliefs and sacred values and symbols.
(32.10) Mr President, heads and members of delegations, the great revolution of  Al-Fateh believes in the principle that the peoples of the world should co-operate  in the fields of science and education. Hence, the delegation of the Jamahiriya  constantly stresses the importance of co-operation between Member States in order to  support and assist Unesco. For the same reason, my country has always co-operated  and Will continue to co-operate with Unesco in carrying out various projects for  science, culture and education. In expressing our support for the Draft Programme  and Budget and for the Medium-Term Plan, we would, at the same time, like to express  our hope that the high expectations of a11 the countries attending the Conference  Will be fulfilled and that Unesco, using a11 its knowledge and experience, Will be  able to contribute to the achievement of a future of peace and security, freedom and  justice. The delegation of the Jamahiriya wishes the Conference every success,  sincerely hoping that it Will be able to deal with a11 the problems under discussion  and that it Will adopt appropriate resolutions based on justice and equality.
(32.11) 1 should like to conclude by expressing my thanks and appreciation to the  Director-General, to his esteemed collaborators and to everyone in the Secretariat  for their efforts which serve to lead Unesco towards a brighter future for mankind.  Onwards! The revolutionary struggle continues! God be with you.
33. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Socialist People's Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya. 1 would like to point out that she is the first laay to  contribute to the general debate. 1 congratulate her. 1 now give the floor to  H.E. Mr Keetla Masogo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, and head of  the delegation of Botswana.
34.1 Mr MASOGO (Botswana):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may 1 first express to you, Mr President, on  behalf of the Botswana Government and my delegation and on my own behalf, our  warmest congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference. May 1 also express to the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, our good wishes for his term of office. Botswana sees the  'new openings' you have created in Unesco and Will not be left behind in  entering through them. Botswana appreciates the determination of the  Director-General and the entire Secretariat to raise the standard of efficiency,  discipline and integrity within Unesco. We have no doubt that this approach to  the management of the affairs of the Organization Will assist it in continuing  with the diversification of its programmes to achieve its mission to contribute  to the development of humanity and to promote worla peace.
34.2 The task before us during this session is to consider and adopt the  third Medium-Term Plan, which Will be a policy guideline for the next six  years. My delegation feels that the third Medium-Term Plan should not only  provide us with motivation for realizing Unesco's objectives, but should also be  usea to constitute a meaningful opportunity to harmonize global requirements  with regional and national needs. This Plan should help to revolutionize and  bring new energy to techniques of meaningful management of programmes. May we  cal1 upon Unesco to elicit co-operation and collaboration in pursuit of a common
120    purpose through diversified and multilateral solutions to our common problems.  We believe that when it does SO, during the Plan period, its efforts Will be  crowned with success in a domain where substance is more meaningful than intent.
34.3 Mr President, 1 wish to make a few comments on some aspects of the  Medium-Term Plan, whose main features or tasks we have identified as being  'basic education for ail' and the 'World Decade for Cultural Development'. We  note that education for a11 has been conceived within four basic StrategieS,  namely: the mobilization of national resources in favour of literacy and  universal primary education, action to combat illiteracy, elimination Of a11  factors that may promote illiteracy and increased access to education for ail.  These tenets closely correspond to the Government of Botswana'.5 policy On  education.
34.4 As regards the World Decade for Cultural Development, Botswana wishes  it to be known that she is totally party to the DeCade. We have fully  comprehended the objectives of the Plan of Action for the Decade. It is our  firm belief that Unesco has played its catalytic role in generating the momentum  for cultural preservation, and that progress along the guidelines set out Will  depend, to a large extent, on its Member States' willingness and readineSS t0  share and exchange their expertise. Furthermore, Unesco's concern for the  preservation of the cultural heritage of a11 peoples is well-meaning and we  regard this concern as pivota1 to cultural continuity for the benefit of future  generations. It is true that culture cannot be successfully divorced from  education, communication, science and technology, and therefore that  technological progress and processes should be used in the coming decade to  serve as a stimulus to the development of culture and cultural identities. The  Decade should be usea to forge national cultural policies which Will enhance  national identities and pride. Mr President, the Botswana delegation wishes to  endorse Unesco's intention, through the Decade, to support and co-ordinate  methods of inventorying, collecting and preserving different forms of the  non-physical heritage, including oral traditions.
34.5 This barely touches on the question of the development and preservation  of national languages. For a long time attention has been paid more to the  physical heritage, and less to oral traditions and folklore, particularly in  Africa, and yet, for a much longer period, the transmission of culture was by  word of mouth. It is our hope that this imbalance Will be corrected, because  language is part of the non-physical heritage. Expert knowledge and  understanding of a national language coula be achieved through research and  adequate learning. We may discover through research how folklore and oral  traditions have influenced languages.
34.6 It would be to this end that the National Setswana Language Council and  the National Cultural Council of Botswana, both formed a few years ago, would  continue to work hard for the proper development of the national language and  culture and to continue to seek ways of improving and developing written and  spoken Setswana. Setswana is used as medium of instruction during the first  four years of primary education in Botswana. Thus we regard research and the  training of teachers and curriculum developers in the national languages as of  great importance.
34.7 Greater emphasis should be placed on support for national library  services, archives, museums and cultural centres in the transmission and  preservation of the cultural heritage. These institutions coula be instrumental  in the analysis of the available cultural materials which have been largely  gathered through archaeological and ethnological research. Through the National  Commissions, Unesco should mount programmes for training personnel in curatorial  work, cataloguing, the bridging of gaps in research and the collection of  cultural material. Information science coula be of great assistance if applied  to this endeavour.
34.8 One issue we would like to touch on whilst on the subject of culture is  the return of cultural material to the countries of origin. Over the years  Unesco has committed itself to supporting this effort. However, J doubt if this  has achieved any significant results. The legal and transfer costs of this  exercise are prohibitive, particularly for the developing countries. Perhaps  open-mindedness on the part of the worla community in mutual assistance for the  transfer or loan of cultural material to the countries of origin coula minimize  the costs.
34.9 Mr President, my delegation applauds the fact that the Direct-or-General  has listed in the third Medium-Term Plan the elimination of a11 forms of  discrimination and the building of an apartheid-free world. This urges me to go  a little further with regard to the situation in our part of the world. The
121    Pretoria regime continues to deny the majority of the South African population  the 'right of being' and above a11 most of the basic human rights, including  education, other than that for its labour market. The southern African  population observes with hope and anticipation the developments relating to the  independence of Namibia. The imminent independence of Namibia has a special  meaning for the people of Botswana, and Will no doubt corne as a fresh breeze to  our region, which is being suffocated by the fumes of racism, apartheid, the  violation of human rights and the continued ideology and process of  destabilization.
34.10 With regard to the biennial programme outlined in document 25 (75,  Mr President, my delegation is gratified to note that emphasis is laid on  reflection and operational action for an improvement in the intersectoral and  interdisciplinary co-ordination of the Organization's activities, and above a11  on the need for substantial changes in the nature and scope of methods for their  implementation. There is no doubt that this strategy Will possess greater  autonomy, efficiency and flexibility in the overall management of programmes,  which are essential for the optimum realization of Unesco's goals.
34.11 Since our delegation Will be drawing attention to specific aspects of  the document in the various Commissions, 1 shall refrain from discussing in  detail each major programme. I do, however, wish to make a few remarks on other  areas of Unesco's competence, namely, education, science and communication,  having covered culture earlier on.
34.12 Botswana attaches great importance to achieving universal primary  education. So far, at least 85 per cent of school-going children are enrolled  in primary schools. Even though the percentage of children not enrolled is  comparatively low, we are not content to leave the matter there. The Botswana  Government recently commissioned research on the characteristics of 'the missing
15 per cent' - 'who they are, where they are, and why they are there and not in  school'. Research has SO far revealed problems which make it difficult for us  to reach these missing children and give them the education that is their  right. We Will be happy to share our experience in this area with other Member  States, perhaps at the Worla Conference on Education for Al1 and also, we hope,  through the film we have made on this subject.
34.13 We look forward to both the World Conference and International Literacy  Year. We see the Conference as a commendable inter-agency effort to focus  specific attention on the system and meaning of education. We hope that the  findings of the Conference Will open up options that cari be explored for the  improvement of the quality of education, and that Will enable education to meet  its objectives and purpose as part of the basis for economic and social  development. We see International Literacy Year as an opportunity for Botswana,  where illiteracy affects more than 40 per cent of the population, to revitalize  national commitment to the eradication of illiteracy and to seek ways for  further complementarity between non-forma1 and forma1 education.
34.14 As regards education and the world of work, we see the relationship  between education, employment and work as very important. However, different  factors continue to act together to create steadily growing unemployment among  youth. The employment market cannot accommodate Young people, as the employers  regard them as immature and too Young to be productive. It is saddening to  acknowledge the fact that these Young people think of themselves as 'educated'  and are thus very reluctant to consider working on the land in their traditional  rural setting. In effect, they seem to prefer to remain unemployed rather than  return to farming. Though there is an abundance of unemployed youth, we have  side by side with it a great shortage of skilled labour. There is an urgent  need to rethink our policies and to develop innovative programmes by mobilizing  the creative potential of our Young people. Mr President, my delegation feels  there is an urgent need for action to help solve the problems resulting from  increasing unemployment among educated youth. We hope, in particular, that  Unesco Will work closely with Member States to develop the appropriate policies  and practices needed in this area. Equally important in this regard would be  Unesco assistance to Member States to extend the concept of the democratization  of education to encompass the training of youth in practical marketable skills,  which would possibly enable them to take up opportunities in the forma1 and  informa1 employment sectors.
34.15 Given the developmental needs of every country, higher education  remains a desirable tool of national development in the training of high-level  manpower. Higher education should attempt to provide a moral and ethical  framework for a11 human endeavour. As such, its universal mission should be to  strive to strike a judicious balance between intellectual and cultural aspects.  We note with pleasure that higher education in the African context has been  given priority in the Director-General's framework for action entitled
122    'Priority: Africa', whose objective is to offer Unesco's suppcrt in focusing  Africa's brain power on the solution of African problems. Investment such as  this in human resources Will result in the production of skilled manpower, which  should in turn result in job creation, self-employment and proper management of  the economy.
34.16 An essential approach for higher education would be to identify and  implement explicit measures to ensure that the constituent parts of higher  education constantly complement each other, avoiding duplication of effort,  especially in Africa, where the cost of higher education is enormous. student  mobility between countries should be an alternative, and we have no doubt that  the development of regional centres of excellence for specific higher eduCatiOn  programmes coula be cost-effective.
34.17 Unesco continues to identify itself with the development of  communication capabilities in the developing countries. The southern and eastern  African countries have benefited a great deal from Unesco's commitment to the  fostering of information pluralism through a special programme, the South and  East Africa News Agencies Development, which we in Botswana have benefited from  since 1982. Through the programme we have received financial contributions,  equipment and training for reporters, non-professional staff, media librarians  and editors, as well as many other services, such as attachments to experienced  news agencies. Apart from hard training, Unesco has been identifying itself  with efforts to make news agencies function more effectively. Our press agency  now has the capacity to collect, process, edit and transmit accurate news and  information within the country and to other parts of the world with minimum  delay and commendable efficiency, thanks to Unesco's support. We have no doubt  that Unesco's support and efforts to strengthen the communication order Will  grow from strength to strength over the years, as it has obvious practical  advantages. Allow me, Mr President, at this point to draw the Organization's  attention to the Eact that women are still in the minority in the communication  profession, especially in Africa. We request Unesco to give much increased  priority to organizing training activities and ensuring access in specialized  areas for women.
34.18 With regard to science, my delegation reaffirms its support for  Unesco's programmes in the natural and applied sciences under Major Programme  Area 1, Subprogramme 2.4, and Major Programme Area II. We also support measures  proposed under both CASTAFRICA 1 and II concerning a special programme of  assistance in the field of scientific and technological research in Africa. It  is our hope that the measures proposed to implement the CASTAFRICA programme  Will remove constraints that continue to work against the promotion of basic  scientific research and the dissemination of scientific and technological  knowledge and information in Africa.
34.19 Finally, Mr President, my delegation wishes to express its appreciation  of the fact that the Director-General has now translated into practical action  the ideals of decentralization, especially in relation to our subregion. We  note with gratitude the increasing emphasis on subregional activities and  co-operation. In this connection we have been encouragea by the strengthening  of the Unesco Harare Office, which we were recently assured of by the Deputy  Director-General for Management at the officia1 opening of this Office in July  this year. Without seeming to be demanding too much, we in the subregion would  appreciate an increase in the budget for the Office in order to enable it to  address itself to the diverse problems that are characteristic of the subregion.
34.20 Mr President, the Botswana delegation places its faith and hopes in  Unesco and its fundamental and underlying principles of international  co-operation as a means for promoting understanding and fellowship among  nations. Thank you, Sir.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Botswana.
35.2 1 would like to cal1 for the understanding and support of the General  Conference in allowing me to continue this general policy debate. We still have  a list of speakers who Will have to deliver their statements this evening or at  the latest tomorrow morning. Some of them have indicated that they have to  leave, SO 1 hope that you Will bear with me and allow me to continue the  meeting. Thank you very much.
35.3 1 now invite Mr Kazimierz Zygulski, Chairman of the National Commission  for Unesco and head of the delegation of Poland, to take the floor.
36.1 Mr ZYGULSKI (Poland):  Mr President, may 1, on behalf of the delegation of Poland, address to  you our sincere congratulations on your election to this high office. We trust  that under your guidance our debates Will be fruitful. While wishing you  success in the discharge of this honourable duty, may 1 also assure you of the  co-operation and support of our delegation.
36.2 This conference coincides with the 50th anniversary of the outbreak of  the Second World War. Reflecting on this anniversary makes us a11 aware of the  urgency of implementing the ever topical principles and objectives contained in  the Constitution expressing the aspiration to maintain and strengthen peace  through the development of international co-operation in the fields of  education, science and culture. We are meeting at a time when confrontation is  clearly abating and when favourable tendencies in international situations are  becoming stronger. My country is most vitally interested in making these  tendencies permanent.
36.3 The ongoing change also relates to cultural life, science, education  and the mass media, that is to say to spheres in which Poland co-operates with  Unesco. Full freedom of communication among peoples and of contacts of Polish  citizens with foreign countries, unimpeded cultural creativity, democratization  of education in schools - a11 these are factors favouring the expansion of  Poland's co-operation with Unesco and adding a new content to it. This involves  respect for the individual, his/her right to development and participation in  political, social, cultural and economic life as well as respect for human  rights. The decisions of the Polish Government on Poland's accession to the  Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  and to the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees are  oriented in this direction: the possibility of Poland's accession to the  European Convention on Human Rights is also under consideration.
36.4 Poland's appreciation of the importance of international law in the  regulation of relations between States and, notably, the importance of  multilateral agreements, cari be seen from the emphasis given to it by Professor  Skubiszewski, Minister of Foreign Affairs, when he addressed the United Nations  General Assembly and the Polish intention to accede to the European Cultural  Convention and to the European Convention on Transboundary Television. Poland  is of the opinion that the free flow of information and communication between  States and their citizens serves to remove tensions worldwide, to respect  different opinions and political as well as social orientations, to expand  tolerance and understanding - SO much needed today in international relations.
36.5 My delegation came to Paris motivated by a sincere desire to make our  Conference strengthen the role of our Organization in the modern world even more.
36.6 We have frequently emphasized our belief in Unesco's role in helping to  solve the world's most pressing problems.
36.7 With its positive record, Unesco has built up great prestige in the  international sphere which should not only be preserved but spread even wider.  The effectiveness of our Organization is linked to its continually expanding  public and its meeting the expectations of a11 vocational sectors involved in  the Unesco sphere, including, inter alia, teachers, educators, scholars,  cultural workers, journalists and SO on. The truly unique part played by Unesco  as a forum for world intellectual co-operation designates it in a particular  manner for active participation in the process of new thinking in the  international arena which should lead to the smoother settlement of  international human problems and mobilize the efforts of the international  community for the maintenance and development of our civilization.
36.8 At the same time, we are aware that the efficiency of Unesco's work is  also connected with the implementation of the principle of universaljty of the  Organization which has always been supported by Poland.
36.9 For 43 years now we have been supporting Unesco's activity and,  notwithstanding our dedication to the Organization, we cannot but perceive  continued shortcomings in its functioning even though we have to admit that the  process of improving its effectiveness under the new Director-General has  already produced results. In our opinion, the functioning of Unesco needs to be  further improved. We consider that improvements should be made, inter alia, in  administrative and financial activities, in economies in expenditures, in more  equitable personnel policies taking into account the interests of a11 groups of  States.
36.10 Mr President, the Draft Medium-Term Plan now before us reflects the  ideas and proposals of Member States and the intellectual international
124    community as well as of the Secretariat and contains basic guidelines for  Unesco's activities during the next six years. May 1 express my delegation's  support for the Organization's strategy as proposed in this Plan.
36.11 Regarding education, we feel that the eradication of illiteracy, the  democratization of education, adult education and educational activity for the  benefit of national liberation movements, constitute important lines of action.  The programme of action for the eradication of illiteracy worldwide and for  concentrating on the work connected with International Literacy Year in 1990  deserves particular support. We are glad to note that emphasis was placed on  the role played by the family in the process of children's education and  development.
36.12 The special project related to the Child and the family bears out the  topicality and accuracy of two of Poland's initiatives related to the need for  the elaboration and adoption of the International Convention on the Rights of  the Child and the proclamation of the International Year of the Family. 1 hope  that the Convention Will be adopted at the current session of the United Nations  General Assembly which Will coincide with the 30th anniversary of the adoption  of the Declaration of the Rights of the Child. We are glad to note in the Draft  Medium-Term Plan that Unesco contemplates taking action to promote ratification  of that Convention.
36.13 With regard to science, may 1 emphasize that Unesco is the only  organization in the United Nations system charged with the constitutional duty  of taking a comprehensive approach to the development of science. Scholars are  confronted increasingly with comprehensive co-responsibility for the world's  destiny in such spheres as environmental protection, the preservation of  cultural and scientific national identity and the positive, or negative,  consequences of the progress of technology. These issues should find their  reflection in activities under Major Programme Area II linked with Programme  VII.l.l. We set great store by the Unesco programmes in the areas of  informatics, biotechnology and energy, and my delegation feels that the number  of such programmes should be increased in the future. We are aware that changes  in ecology and the climate, and the husbanding of the natural resources of our  planet, should be treated on a more global scale. My delegation therefore  supports the entire set of programmes concerned with geological correlation,  oceanography and hydrology. But we lay the main stress on the problems of  environmental protection, including the 'Man and the Biosphere' programme. We  hope that Unesco Will do much more in this respect, if only by facilitating the  transfer of new technologies efficient in environmental protection.
36.14 Statesmen talk about the construction of a 'common house' that the  Europe of the future is to be. That has its consequences in the field of  science, and it is appropriate that Unesco is now paying more attention to  matters of European science. We welcome the establishment of the Regional  Office for Science and Technology in Europe. It would be desirable for the  Office to present a general concept of European co-operation in science linked  with activities in the science sector which would require appropriate  reinforcement of the Office. My delegation supports the 'Yearbook of Science'  publication and the publishing of the 'New Trends in Scientific Research'  series. Science problems should probably be more strongly reflected in the  forecasting work undertaken by Unesco.
36.15 Poland views positively the traditional co-operation between Unesco and  the World Intellectual Property Organization which, as much as Unesco, makes an  important contribution to the development of contacts between States in the  field of what may be called 'international intellectual co-operation'. The  World Intellectual Property Organization plays an invariably important role in  the development and protection of the work of the human mind in the fields of  culture, science, invention, technology - that is to say of values which form  the basis of Unesco's activity. Only recently, Poland confirmed her respect for  such values by deciding to ratify the Berne Convention on the Protection of  Literary and Artistic Work and by acceding to the Treaty on the Establishment of  an International Register of Audio-Visual Work elaborated in 1989 under the  auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organization.
36.16 Social sciences play a special role in Unesco activities, and my  delegation favours strengthening their position in the plans for activities for  the coming years. 'Man and society in a changing world', under Major Programme  Area V, pointing to the role of the social sciences in creating culture and  their usefulness in the process of the social and economic development of  humankind, deserves support. My delegation approves paragraph 05117 regarding  co-operation with the Vienna Centre for Social Studies on the conduct of  regional comparative research. Poland attaches great importance to problems
125    shared by the social and natural sciences, as was brought out by the  organization by the Polish Academy of Sciences - in conjunction with Unesco - of  the 'Man-Society-Global Change' international symposium at Mragowo in May 1989.  My delegation notes with satisfaction the modern and comprehensive approach  taken to problems of development that transcends the traditionally applied  statistical and economic indicators under the programme entitled 'The human  dimension of development'.
36.17 Culture, as an area coming under Unesco's competence, is, on the one  hand an area covering various manifestations of human activity and, on the  other, a complex of problems set apart in biennial and medium-term Unesco  programmes and having a definite dimension.
36.18 The need to understand concrete activities in the field of culture on a  scale even wider than in the past is best brought out by the declaration of the  World Decade for Cultural Development under United Nations and Unesco  sponsorship. In Poland, in connection with the socio-political change and  profound economic crisis, a national discussion is taking place on ways and  means of safeguarding its rightful place for culture. Our people realize the  importance of such problems as the safeguarding of the national heritage,  education in the spirit of respect for other cultures and an even fuller  comprehension of other cultures, support for the development of creativity  expressing a variety of artistic approaches, helping Young artists to develop  their talents, creating conditions favouring the development of cultural  activities in local communities and facilitating universal access to cultural  values and the achievements of modern science. Realizing that these problems  are of key importance, my country is confronted with the extremely arduous task  of drawing up solutions which Will take economic difficulties into consideration  on the one hand, while fully tapping the latent creativity in human resources on  the other. These tasks conform to those set by the Decade following, as they  do, from the requirements of modern development.
36.19 For historical reasons, Poland attaches special importance to the  protection of its cultural heritage and to international co-operation for the  preservation and protection of cultural property. The CSCE Symposium on the  common European heritage to be held in Cracow in 1991 Will serve to deepen  mutual understanding of the cultures of the region - cultures sharing many  common features. We welcome the announcement that Unesco Will participate in  this event (paragraph 03211). One of the objectives of the symposium Will be to  explore the possibilities for making concerted efforts to protect and preserve  the European heritage. The event Will coincide with the inauguration in Cracow  of the work of the international centre for reserach and training of  conservationists for Eastern and Central Europe and other interested countries.  The establishment of the centre Will constitute Poland's contribution to the  programme of the World Decade for Cultural Development.
36.20 Taking the Decade as the starting-point for certain long-term projects,  Poland has suggested that, in addition to the Cracow Centre, an international  centre for the training of film-makers should be set up in Lodz, and an  international Esperanto centre in Bialystok. In connection with Major Programme  Area IV, 'Communication in the service of humanity', my delegation welcomes the  evident desire to strengthen Unesco's intellectual mission in this sphere by  developing analytical, research and information activities.
36.21 My delegation welcomes the proposals for research work in such fields  as communications development planning, the international circulation of  television programmes, the world flow of information, and the social effects of  the introduction of new technologies, which were prompted by an awareness of the  need to make a comprehensive and integrated approach to social issues and global  problems and to place issues of social communication and international  communication in a wide socio-political context.
36.22 On the subject of transverse programmes, may 1 deal briefly with the  General Information Programme, one of the most long-standing of Unesco's  intergovernmental programmes, universally recognized as useful and efficient.  From the Programme'5 inception, Poland has taken an active part in its  development and attaches great importance to its activities, notably in  perfecting and facilitating the flow of scientific and technical information and  in forming international and regional networks and information systems. My  delegation therefore welcomes and notes with satisfaction Unesco's intention to  strengthen regional co-operation and set up regional scientific information  networks, such as the International Chemical Information Network, or the  Scientific and Technical Information Network, or to sponsor the first European  Conference on Library Automation and Networking.
36.23 Mr President, during the two years that have elapsed since the last  session of the General Conference, Poland has been taking an active part in  Unesco's work and contributing to the implementation of its programmes. With a  view to realizing Unesco's objectives, the Polish Unesco Committee conducts or  co-ordinates various activities every year, such as, for example, the granting  of 15 Poland/Unesco fellowships in Polish universities for students from  developing countries and the organization of 13 summer language schools for  students from Polish secondary schools associated with Unesco, with the  participation of teachers and Young people from France, the Soviet Union,  Switzerland, the German Democratic Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany,  the United States, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Norway. In addition, Polish  culture courses are organized annually in English, French and German at the  Universities of Cracow and Wroclaw for schoolteachers from Unesco associated  schools and Young research workers from various countries.
36.24 Note should also be taken of the concerted research in which Poland has  been engaged for many years with a number of European countries to examine the  contents of history and geography textbooks with a view to eliminating from them  a11 that is not in keeping with historical truth or which runs counter to the  spirit of mutual respect and understanding.
36.25 In concluding, may 1 assure you, Mr President, that my country Will  spare no effort to participate actively in the implementation of the programmes  to be adopted by the General Conference and thereby to strengthen the role of  Unesco in promoting the ideals of worldwide intellectual and cultural  CO-operation.
37. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Poland, and 1 give the floor to  H.E. Mr Chung Won-Shik, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the  Republic of Korea.
38.1 Mr CHUNG WON-SHIK (Republic of Korea):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, 1 would like to  congratulate you, Mr Anwar Ibrahim, on your unanimous election to the presidency  of the General Conference. 1 am confident that,  guidance,  under your leadership and  this session Will be one of the most successful. 1 should also like to  pay special tribute to the Director-General and his staff members for their  well-prepared presentation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan and of the Draft  Programme and Budget for the next two years.
38.2 1 should like to take this opportunity to welcome three new members:  the Republic of Djibouti,  Will  the Cook Islands and the Republic of Kiribati. They  no doubt contribute to enriching the culture of our globe and to  translating Unesco's ideals into reality.
38.3 Mr President, today we are confronted with a massive change that is  sweeping over the entire world. The Cold War system which has dominated the  international scene for the past 40 years is now giving way to a new order based  on peace and co-operation. The new world order entrusts the United Nations  system with a mandate to play a more significant role than ever before. We look  to Unesco, as the think-tank of the United Nations family, to provide a new  paradigm that is abreast of the changing world. In this regard, 1 note with  satisfaction Unesco's perceptive approach to world problems, which is embodied  in its Draft Medium-Term Plan. This Plan, which  activities in the 199Os,  Will guide the programme  rightly points to three major challenges to the world  namely: peace, development and the protection of the environment. We reaffirm  the importance of grappling with these issues and would like to propose that  Unesco concentrate on the following courses of action.
38.4 Firstly, although the trend of new détente is evident,  confrontation  military  and conflicts still -persist across the world. Unesco, for its  part, should endeavour to further develop and implement peace-oriented  programmes with a view to contributing to the attainment of peace and the  avoidance of potential violent conflicts.
38.5 Secondly, with the gloomy prospect of a wider gap between the developed  and developing countries in the twenty-first Century, Unesco should focus on  high-quality human resource development and development strategies. We note with  satisfaction the Director-General's commitment to this cause, especially for the  least-developed countries in Africa. In this regard, may 1 add that some of the  least-developed countries in Asia and the Pacifie should be given as much  attention as those in other regions.
38.6 Thirdly, it is to be noted that mother nature is seriously  deteriorating. Air and water pollution. nuclear and toxic waste, deforestation  and the green-house effect are now jeopardizing human existence on this planet.  TO prevent our planet from drifting into disastrous consequences, Unesco should  give higher priority to environmental issues and reinforce its programmes for  the protection of the environment. TO this end, the Republic of Korea Will  continue to work closely with Unesco and develop co-operative programmes with  our old friends both within and outside the region, while cultivating new  friendships with Member States of different ideologies. In particular, we are  willing to share our unique experiences and development know-how with Third  World Member States.
38.7 Mr President, allow me to turn to the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991 and, very briefly, address our priority concerns as regards the major  programme areas. Regarding 'Education and the future', we a11 agree that  education must be one of Unesco's essential tasks for the attainment of its  fundmental goal of ensuring world peace and the welfare of mankind. We fully  support the initiative of Unesco to banish illiteracy completely from the globe,  and its activities relating to International Literacy Year. 1 would also like to  emphasize that Unesco should wy special attention to the elimination of  functional illiteracy, which has emerged as a serious problem to be tackled in  our modern technology-oriented society. We welcome the convening of the World  Conference on Education for Al1 to be held in Thailand next year. This Will  augment the impact of the literacy campaigns and Will become a co-operative  mode1 of the joint efforts of four United Nations agencies: UNICEF, UNDP, the  World Bank and Unesco.
38.8 May 1 draw your attention to the fact that the Republic of Korea's  modest offer to establish the King Sejong Literacy Prize, with an annual  contribution of US $30,000, was accepted by the Executive Board at its 131st  session. This Prize is to be awarded for meritorious work in the area of  literacy campaigns. It is our earnest hope that a11 Member States, especially  the developing countries, Will be encouraged by this Prize to step up their  literacy efforts. The Korean Government has also decided to contribute 100,000  ILY pins to Unesco for the celebration of International Literacy Year.
38.9 Mr President, natural resources and the environment are the common  heritage of mankind and their rational management and protection ensure the very  survival of future generations. In this respect, we need to strengthen  environmental education, particularly in developing countries where public  awareness of environmental problems is lacking. In welcoming the planned United  Nations conference on environment and development in 1992, 20 years after the  Stockholm Conference, 1 suggest that this conference may consider the need for  an international year of the environment in the near future.
38.10 Another priority area we note is the popularization of science and the  promotion of scientific cultures. Last July, we organized a very successful  Regional Workshop on Public Awareness of Science and Technology in collaboration  with Unesco and the Regional Office for Science and Technology for South-East  Asia. Heartened by its results, we intend to hold another workshop of this kind.
38.11 With regard to cultural programmes, we would like to reaffirm our full  support for the action programmes designed to achieve the four main objectives  of the World Decade for Cultural Development. We attach great importance to  cultural co-operation and exchanges. Cultural co-operation is instrumental in  combating ignorance, intolerance and prejudice, which are the main seeds of  mistrust and hatred. Cultural co-operation and exchanges should be promoted in a  way that ensures mutual respect for the cultural identity of others. 1 am also  pleased to announce that our government is now formulating an ambitious ten-year  Cultural Development Programme under the aegis of the Ministry of Culture, which  is to be reorganized and strengthened as from next year. Under this .programme,  we expect to increase our participation in cultural activities both at home and  abroad. Accordingly, we Will continue to give full support to the Silk Roads  Project and Will participate in it with enthusiasm. As to the international  campaign for the cultural heritage, 1 would like to suggest that Unesco's  strategy should concentrate on ongoing projects rather than on launching new  projects.
38.12 Mr President, we affirm the vital importance of promoting communication  technology in the developing countries. In this connection, 1 am very pleased to  announce that the Republic of Korea Will continue to support the activites of  the International Programme for the Development of Communication by awarding  fellowships to a number of selected trainees from developing countries in the  field of radio and television broadcasting.
38.13 Lastly, 1 would like to stress the importance of South-South  co-operation and, in the same context, the programme for Technical Co-operation  among Developing Countries. In this connection, 1 am happy to announce that the  Government of the Republic of Korea Will contribute US $200,000 to Unesco  through funds-in-trust for the development of informatics in the developing  countries. And, may 1 add it is organizing another concrete and practical action  for TCDC, a new project called 'Korea Youth Volunteers', which is now in its  final stage of preparation. Young Koreans, after appropriate training, Will be  sent to developing countries to engage in voluntary services and development  projects in various fields, such as agriculture, medical tare, sports and  engineering. The Korean National Commission for Unesco Will administer the  programme and solicit the advice and collaboration of Member States and of  Unesco.
38.14 In conclusion, the delegation of the Republic of Korea would like to  place emphasis on the universality of Unesco. As 1 started my address by  welcoming our three new Member States, 1 conclude it by appealing for the early  return of former Member States to this Organization. Our strength lies in our  united efforts in pursuit of the same goal. Thank you.
39. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea. 1 now have  pleasure in giving the floor to H.E. Mr Ahmed Fathi Sorour, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Egypt.
(40.1) Mr SOROUR (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabie):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President,  Mr Director-General, heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, it  gives me great pleasure to begin my address by congratulating our President,  Mr Anwar Ibrahim, on his election by delegation members and 1 am sure that, under  his wise direction, the Conference Will be a success. 1 should also like to thank  the Chairman and members of the Executive Board for their laudable efforts during  the past two years. 1 should further like to express my gratitude to the  Director-General and to the staff of the Secretariat for their work in preparing the  draft third Medium-Term Plan and the work of the Conference. 1 wish them every  success.
(40.2) Ladies and gentlemen, though this Conference is being held at a time of  international rapprochement, particularly between the superpowers, many problems  remain which greatly concern the countries of the world: oppression, racial  discrimination, foreign occupation and the resulting uprisings to eradicate these  evils and achieve liberation, self-determination and a11 other human rights. World  and regional peace is also affected by conditions where there is neither peace nor  war . In this respect, the Iraq-Iran war cannot be ignored, and let it be said that  we have every hope that wisdom Will prevail and that United Nations resolutions for  a peaceful solution will be implemented without delay.
(40.3) Other problems also have to be faced: the growing burden of debt and its  effect on development; the prevailing recession in the world economy; the halt to  the progress which many developing countries had been achieving in education, health  and other services. In this situation, the world must act in concert to establish a  new economic order capable of dealing with the debt crisis and with the chronic  inflation in the economy of the industrialized countries, which is being exported to  the developing countries. Such a result could only corne about through the creation  of favourable opportunities for serious dialogue between the North and the South.
(40.4) Then there is the question of the environment, which must be protected from  pollution, particularly with respect to the disposa1 of toxic and hazardous wastes  dumped by the industrialized world on the territories of developing countries to  which they bear an international responsibility. The industries of the  industrialized countries benefit from raw materials imported from the Third World
131    but, in return, they send back toxic wastes which bring sickness and death. Other  major disasters affecting the world have included the explosion of a nuclear reactor  and a destructive earthquake. Advanced research is needed to confine such damage and  limit the dangers. In this context, 1 must express my concern at the earthquake  which took place last night in San Francisco and say that our hearts and sympathies  are with the people of America as they face this catastrophe.
(40.5) Ladies and gentlemen, speaking as we are from the rostrum of Unesco, it is  essential that we stress the role of the Organization as a forum for considered  thought in the momentous events now occurring in the world. Now indeed is an  appropriate time to say so, as we are about to approve the third Medium-Term Plan  and the associated Programme and Budget for the first phase of the Plan.
(40.6) 1 should now like to review a number of important issues, beginning with  education. Our country has adopted a policy of universal primary education as a  basic means of tackling illiteracy at source. As part of the celebrations to mark  International Literacy Year, the President of the Arab Republic of Egypt declared in
1989 that the 1990s would be the Decade of Literacy and Adult Education. A  comprehensive national campaign is under way to eradicate illiteracy in the country.  It is our hope that Unesco Will lead the same campaign on the world level and ensure  the provision of universal education within the framework of an integrated plan to  be implemented over the next ten years. Egypt has also been concerned with Child  tare and the pre-school phase. In this context, the President of the Republic has  issued a further decree, declaring that the next ten years Will be the Decade of the  Egyptian Child. We, therefore, warmly welcome the programme on ‘The Young Child and  the family’. Moreover, our country has begun to study ways of raising the future  quality of education in the light of economic, scientific and demographic variables.  We believe that the reform of education is an integral part of our social and  economic planning and that it is one of the keys to development.
(40.7) Concentration on secondary and technical education, linked together in  productive work, is a sound basis for solving the unemployment problem which affects  many Member States. The same principle applies in turn to university and higher  education, especially in the applied fields which meet the real needs of society. In  this regard, during the discussion of the second Medium-Term Plan, my country  supported the cal1 for the conclusion of regional agreements for the recognition of  higher educat ion certificates in order to prepare the ww for an eventual  international agreement. We remain convinced that this was right and continue our  efforts to facilitate the exchange of experience at this important level of  education and to give scholars the opportunity to benefit from the experience of  advanced schools of science throughout the world. Associated with this idea is the  proposa1 to bring the benefits of the activities of regional higher education  centres to the international level. Action would be taken to convert their  programmes into world programmes with the support of national centres, such as the  Cairo Centre for Studies and Research in Higher Education, which could carry out  regional activities. 1 should like to add at this point that the regional education  programmes being carried out by Unesco with the assistance of Member States should  be associated with the centres established by Unesco during the 1950s. They were  later converted into national centres with regional activities, such as the Sirs  Al-Layyan Functional Literacy Centre (ASFEC) which requires support in the form of  experts, programmes and materials. 1 should also like to point out the importance of  concentrating on continuing education to meet the needs of a changing world. Given  the spread of drug abuse and the emergence of diseases which resist a11 treatment,  concentration is also needed on preventive health education. It goes without saying  that concentration is further needed to guarantee national education rights in the  occupied Arab territories and to preserve the cultural identity of the Palestinian  people. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate the courageous Palestinian  people on the Intifada to obtain the return of their lands.
(40.8) My second point concerns culture. The Declaration of the World Decade for  Cultural Development has marked a turning point in the way that culture is perceived  in the world, underlining the role of culture in development and kindling interest  in strengthening and enriching cultural identities and in promoting international  co-operation to bring civilizations together. In consequence, there is an  opportunity for international attention to be given to some major cultural projects,  one of which is for the revival of the ancient Library of Alexandria. With  assistance from the international community and under the guidance of Unesco, Egypt  has made progress in implementing the project. Following studies and seminars  organized by Unesco, the foundation stone was laid in 1988 at a ceremony attended by  the President of the Republic, the Director-General of Unesco and a host of people  concerned with culture and intellectual matters from a11 around the world. An  international competition was organized, involving 1,700 architects from
70 countries and the award finally went to an international design office. The  necessary steps are now being taken to carry out the project in accordance with the  plan laid down by the feasibility studies. The Government and people of Egypt are  sparing no effort - moral or material - to ensure the success of the project.
(40.9) We welcome Unesco’s efforts to preserve the cultural heritage of Jerusalem.  We also exhort the Director-General to take steps to safeguard the holy places and  especially the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
(40.10) My third point concerns science and technology, an important domain of  Unesco’s work which is stressed in the Draft Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget. Though great scientific progress has been achieved in the world, it has been  dominated by the advanced countries. Unesco must seek to reduce the gap that exists  in this field between the industrialized and the developing countries. Scientific  and technological progress in the developing countries provides solutions for their  problems while preserving their cultural identity. We would like to praise Unesco’s  achievements in the Man and the Biosphere programme, the Geological Correlation  Programme and the Marine Science Programme.
(40.11) My fourth point relates to communications, a field in which Unesco’s  efforts are appreciated by my country. The Organization has sought to obtain a  meeting of minds and cultures and to promote a free exchange of ideas, information  and knowledge which is at once balanced and which does no harm to the cultural  identity of countries. At the same time, Member States must develop their potential  in the field of communications. Efforts in this area lend support to the main aim  for which Unesco itself was founded - to spread peace, international understanding  and respect for human rights. These objectives cari only be attained by peoples  becoming acquainted with each other and by the interaction of cultures.  Communication is needed to breathe life into cultures and prevent them from  petrifying.
(40.12) 1 should like to add that we are paying the closest attention to the  Director-General’s directions with regard to the project for Arab culture and we  hope that it Will be implemented as soon as possible. We are also concerned with  Unesco’s projects to preserve the cultural heritage in every aspect as the property  of a11 mankind and the embodiment of ethical, aesthetic and humanitarian values. We  congratulate the Director-General on his programmes for the ‘Priority: Africa’  project. We cal1 on him to draw up a plan for execution of these programmes and to  provide extra-budgetary resources to ensure effective implementation.
(40.13) In concluding my address, 1 should like to recall the continuing demand for  decentralization of the management of Unesco’s programmes in the interests of Member  States and in order to devolve the role of Unesco to the people of the world in  their own countries. In this context, we wish to express our gratitude to the  Director-General, in particular, for his decision to return the staff of the  Regional Office for Science and Technology for the Arab States (ROSTAS) to the  headquarters in Cairo. We should also like to express our appreciation for the role  played by the Regional Office for Education in the Arab States (UNEDBAS). Let me  finally thank you a11 for your kind attention.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank Dr Abmad Fathi Sorour, the Minister of Education of the Arab  Republic of Egypt.
41.2 1 now cal1 on H.E. MS Eleonore Bjartveit, Minister for Cuit and  Culture, and head of the delegation of Norway.
42.1 MS BJARTVEIT (Norway):  Mr President, like the previous speaker 1 take pleasure in offering you  my congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session of  Unesco's General Conference.
42.2 1 should like to underline the importance my country attaches to Unesco  as an instrument of bringing about more equitable access to educational and  cultural experiences, better protection of our cultural heritage and improved  management of the world's resources. In this connection, 1 would like to thank  the Director-General for the preparations he has made for this General  Conference session. 1 am particularly pleased with the positive changes made in  the presentation of the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the Draft Programme and  Budget.
42.3 Mr President, the concentration of Unesco's programme into seven major  programme areas seems on the whole to represent a propitious reform. 1 should  also like to express my appreciation to the Director-General for the energy he
133    had displayed in attacking the problems of Unesco and for the ambitious goals he  has set for the Organization during the first biennium of his tenure. 1 am glad  to note the initiative taken to strengthen contacts with the National  Commissions and to draw upon the knowledge and insight represented by this  international network of experts. We hope to see the universality of the  Organization restored and support a11 efforts to assert its rightful place  within the United Nations system. The best way to achieve this Will be to  demonstrate the necessity for and the vitality of our Organization.
42.4 The session before us is an important one. We Will face a number of  challenges and we a11 have a responsibility to show restraint, willingness to  co-operate and readiness to seek solutions acceptable to all. This is not to say  that we should refrain from speaking frankly or try to gloss over real  differences of opinion.
42.5 Mr President, whereas the tasks before Unesco are of no less magnitude  or complexity than before, the general political environment in which the  activities of the Organization unfold has undergone significant and positive  changes. It is our conviction that the improved international climate should  favourably enhance and facilitate Unesco's work. The confrontation and rivalry  between East and West of earlier periods are rapidly being replaced by more  co-operative structures and dialogue. It is for us to capitalize on these  positive tendencies in the framework of Unesco as well.
42.6 One important example is the environment and the management of natural  resources. We appreciate that Unesco has been assigned a major role to play in  the implementaiton of the recommendations of the World Commission on Environment  and Development in the report 'Our Common Future'. Pollution knows no boundaries  and many of the environmental problems we face today cari be solved only through  multilateral co-operation. I am pleased to note that this is reflected in our  programme and budget, thus stressing the importance of both research and  information for problems related to the environment and the management of  natural resources.
42.7 In May this year Norway hosted a European seminar on environmental  education within the framework of the Associated Schools. We consider it. to be  of the utmost importance that Unesco should continue its efforts to arouse  awareness and understanding of the importance of environmental problems among  Young people.
42.8 1 am pleased to announce that in May 1990 Norway Will organize a  conference on the follow-up of the recommendations of the World Commission on  Environment and Development for the European and North American region. The  conference Will discuss central themes like the economy/ecology dimension,  enerw, industrial development and public participation. It is our hope and  belief that this meeting may prove to be a valuable step towards more  sustainable development.
42.9 Mr President, basic education is a precondition for progress in a11  fields of Unesco's work. Norway celebrates the 250th anniversary of the  introduction of compulsory schooling this year. Our history testifies to the  impact this has had over the years in a country with a small and scattered  population and few natural resources.
42.10 Fighting illiteracy is a major task for any organization devoted to the  promotion of culture. 1 am pleased to note that Unesco has made an effort to  take up this challenge in its programme for the next biennium. Norway, together  with the other Nordic countries, has presented a draft resolution to the General  Conference calling for more resources to be allocated to the Organization's  literacy work. I feel it is particularly important that efforts should be  focused on girls and women, not only because nearly 65 per cent of the world's  illiterates are women, but also because of the multiplier effect their education  Will have, especially on children.
42.11 International Literacy Year in 1990 should serve as an opportunity for  mobilizing public opinion and launching a global campaign to bring about a  substantial reduction in the number of illiterates by the year 2000. We  appreciate the initiative taken by Unesco, in co-operation with other United  Nations and private organizations, to organize the conference 'Education for  All' in Thailand next March. It is our hope that the conference Will not only  identify existing difficulties in literacy work and obstacles at the  psychological, sociological, economic and political levels, but also exchange  knowledge and pool information on sucessful projects in this field. The  clearing-house function on successful ideas and projects may serve as a source  of inspiration to countries as well as organizations and individuals facing the  complexities of this problem area in their search for practical solutions.
42.12 Mr President, statistics are essential in order to give a true picture  of women's role and participation in society - or lack of it. In addition to  purely statistical data, we also need research that provides a more profound,  empirically based, analysis of gender - and generational - relations. Unesco is  in a unique position to promote, disseminate and apply a better understanding of  these basic issues. There is always a danger, when disadvantages are focused,  that a picture is drawn of women solely as clients and beneficiaries, rather  than seeing women as agents and contributors, both traditionally and in times of  change.
42.13 Women's activities are closely related to Unesco's concerns: women are  particularly active in educating the Young, in cultural production and  transmission, in sharing and preserving information about the environment and  the human condition. Unesco, consequently, is particularly relevant to women,  and the multiplier effect of involving women is obvious.
42.14 Unesco's dual strategy to advance the status of women must be  maintained, both integrating the female dimension throughout the range of its  activites and launching specific activities under the various programmes in  response to women's needs and interests. The transverse theme 'Women' is  extremely important and the Organization cannot afford to fail in its  implementation. It is in this spirit, Mr President, that we have proposed some  amendments to the text proposed by the Director-General in document 25 C/4.
42.15 Mr President, a central task for Unesco and the international community  at large at this period in time is to work for freedom of expression and the  free flow of information. We attach the utmost importance to these matters for  our part and hope that the General Conference Will address these issues in  detail with the greatest attention. We would like to see this Organization  embrace principles and standards in this respect which respond to both present  and future needs in these vital fields of human communication and interaction.
42.16 The new electronic communication technology has become a dominant  factor in cultural development in our present-day society. It has opened up new  possibilities for distributing information, knowledge and cultural impulses in  general to ever wider audiences. It is important that a11 countries should be  able to take an active part in this development, and not only as passive  recipients. In this respect, the IPDC plays a very important role by giving  support, for instance, for necessary infrastructures or the training of  technicians in developing countries. Norway has contributed to the IPDC from its  beginning, but the programme cari oniy be improved and extended if it is actively  supported by a larger number of countries.
42.17 While on the subject of information, let me congratulate the  Director-General and the Egyptian Government on the decision to re-establish the  Library of Alexandria. This initiative Will have great impact not only on the  countries around the Mediterranean but on a11 of us. 1 am particularly proud and  happy that Young Norwegian architects won the contest for the new library  structure.
42.18 New information technology as we see it today tends to represent a  single life-style and a certain set of values. This may constitute a threat to  diversified cultural activities. One of the aims of the actions undertaken in  connection with the World Decade for Cultural Development should be to  counterbalance this trend, stressing cultural identities and cultural pluralism.  The Norwegian National Committee for the World Decade for Cultural Development  is active and has already arranged a well-publicized seminar on Nordic cultural  identity in relation, inter alia, to cultural minority groups. Other initiatives  are under way, and the Committee hopes to receive information and guidance from  the Secretariat as a stimulant in its work. Norway has proposed to host a joint  European meeting of National Committees for the World Decade for Cultural  Development in 1990.
42.19 Mr President, once again 1 would like to underline the great interest  we take in the work of Unesco and the importance we attach to the future of the  Organization. That is why we have decided to put forward a well-qualified and  fully committed candidate for the Executive Board. Thank you, Mr President.
43. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Norway. 1 now cal1 on the last  speaker for this evening, H.E. Mr Rodolphe Adada, Minister of Secondary and  Higher Education and Scientific Research and head of the delegation of Congo.
44.1 M. ADADA (Congo) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mon-  sieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au nom du gouver-
135    nement de la République populaire du Congo que j'ai l'honneur de représenter ici  à la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, au nom de la délégation  congolaise et en mon nom personnel, j'ai l'agréable devoir d'adresser mes chaleu-  reuses félicitations à Monsieur le Président de la vingt-cinquième session de la  Conférence générale de notre Organisation pour sa brillante élection. Monsieur  le Président, je voudrais surtout vous assurer du soutien de notre délégation  tout au long des travaux de cette session, qui auront besoin pour leur succès de  toute l'expérience et de toute la compétence qui vous sont reconnues par l'en-  semble des délégations. Je voudrais également profiter de cette occasion pour  adresser mes salutations aux éminentes personnalités et aux honorables délégués  à cette grande rencontre qui est, par excellence, un haut moment de réflexion  collective de la communauté internationale sur les problèmes relevant du domaine  de compétence de notre Organisation. Aussi, permettez-moi de vous exprimer les  sentiments sincères d'amitié et de solidarité du peuple congolais tout entier,  tout en vous assurant que notre présence ici est la manifestation de la ferme  volonté de notre pays et du président Denis Sassou Nguesso, de contribuer à tra-  vers l'activité de 1'Unesco à la construction d'un monde de paix et de progrès.  Je suis d'avance persuadé que la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence géné-  rale fera bon usage de toutes les ressources disponibles pour susciter la  réflexion, la concertation, l'échange d'opinions, la discussion et la compréhen-  sion des problèmes mondiaux afin de renforcer l'idéal et l'action de 1'Unesco.
44.2 Monsieur le Président, à la veille de l'entrée de l'humanité dans le  troisième millénaire, nous devons nous préoccuper de l'état du monde que nous  transmettrons aux générations futures. Il nous faut alors reconnaître, et nous  en féliciter, que des efforts réels ont été accompis ces dernières années en  faveur de la paix et du désarmement. Nous devons espérer que cette dynamique pour  la paix qui caractérise cette fin de siècle aidera l'humanité à réduire les  foyers de tension et les conflits régionaux qui subsistent à travers le monde et  nous interpellent si douloureusement au Moyen-Orient, au Sahara occidental, en  Asie du Sud-Est ainsi qu'en Afrique australe. Nous devons espérer certes, mais  nous devons surtout agir pour renforcer ce mouvement et faciliter l'émergence,  avant la fin du siècle, d'un monde de paix et de compréhension mutuelle, où  l'homme pourra se consacrer entièrement aux vrais défis de sa condition. Le gou-  vernement de la République populaire du Congo entend prendre sa part dans cette  tâche.
44.3 La paix est une conquête permanente. La République populaire du Congo  partage l'avis exprimé dans le troisième Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995 selon  lequel le développement est une condition nécessaire à l'instauration de la paix,  car la pauvreté est incompatible avec une paix durable. Mais la paix n'est pas  seulement le silence des armes ; en effet, on ne saurait parler de paix ni de  droits fondamentaux de l'homme tant que l'intolérance, l'apartheid, le racisme  et toute forme de discrimination sévissent dans le monde.
44.4 Nous estimons, avec le président Denis Sassou Nguesso, que "la paix  c'est l'instauration d'une ère nouvelle dans les rapports internationaux au plan  politique, économique, culturel et social ; la paix c'est le développement de la  coopération et de la solidarité entre les nations. C'est la suppression du colo-  nialisme, du néocolonialisme, du racisme, de l'apartheid, du terrorisme, des  foyers de tension dans le monde. C'est le respect absolu des droits de l'homme  et de la vie sociale". Aujourd'hui, toutes les analyses s'accordent à souligner  l'interdépendance de la paix, du désarmement et du développement, et le tiers  monde apparaît aujourd'hui, en raison de contraintes autant historiques qu'écono-  miques, comme le terrain de prédilection de la violence, frein puissant à un  développement réel et durable.
44.5 Sur le plan économique, la République populaire du Congo regarde avec  inquiétude la situation internationale profondément marquée par les conséquences  néfastes de la crise qui persiste, ample et profonde, et se caractérise par une  accentuation des déséquilibres et des inégalités structurels qui résultent de la  persistance d'un système économique international injuste et inéquitable.
44.6 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de plan à moyen terme et le plan admi-  nistratif pour 1990-1995, et le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1990-1991,  une fois adoptés, de même que les différents points inscrits à l'ordre du jour  de cette vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale constitueront les  outils de base de l'action quotidienne de 1'Unesco au cours du prochain exercice  biennal.
44.7 Le Congo souhaite qu'au titre de ce Plan a moyen terme pour 1990-1995,  une place importante soit réservée à l'action de sensibilisation de l'opinion  internationale sur les dangers du développement trop inégal des nations. Comment  en effet parvenir à la concrétisation des idéaux poursuivis, sans cette justice ?
44.8 Les injustices qui régissent actuellement les relations économiques  internationales, caractérisées d'un côté par la dépréciation continue des cours  des matières premières, le tarissement des recettes d'exportation, la diminution  drastique des capacités internes d'investissement, le surendettement, et de  l'autre côté, par la maîtrise totale et unilatérale par les pays développés des  circuits monétaires et financiers, la hausse continue des recettes d'exportation  des produits manufacturés, le surenrichissement et le gaspillage, rendent hypo-  thétique la réalisation de l'idéal d'une éducation universelle dans les pays en  développement.
44.9 Depuis quelques années, nombre de pays africains sont soumis, par le  biais des politiques d'ajustement structure1 imposées de l'extérieur, à une vaste  chirurgie qui touche tous les organes de la société. Dans ce cadre, il se trouve  que le secteur de l'éducation n'est pas épargné.
44.10 Prenant en compte cette donnée nouvelle de la crise et ses conséquences  sur le secteur de l'éducation, la République populaire du Congo a organisé  l'année dernière un "colloque-bilan" sur l'enseignement. Ce colloque-bilan a été  le grand rassemblement de toutes les compétences nationales en matière d'éduca-  tion pour arrêter les grands axes de la politique de notre pays dans ce domaine  pour les années à venir. Cette rencontre nous a donné une fois de plus l'occasion  de mesurer la profondeur des problèmes posés par la démocratisation mal maîtrisée  de l'enseignement, le poids des rebuts du système scolaire, la pléthore des  effectifs corrélée à la diminution du nombre des maîtres et à l‘insuffisance des  salles de classe, le dysfonctionnement au plan de la gestion du système dans un  contexte d'amenuisement des ressources financières.
44.11 Ainsi, il est à noter que, dans le cas de l'Afrique, les dépenses par  élève dans l'enseignement primaire sont les plus faibles en termes absolus et en  termes relatifs par rapport aux autres parties du globe.
44.12 Une action en vue d'atteindre une éducation de base de qualité devra  faire appel nécessairement à la mobilisation de ressources supplémentaires qu'on  ne peut espérer trouver dans les revenus internes, qui ont subi une contraction  extrême du fait de la dégradation de la situation économique et se trouvent par  ailleurs mobilisés en grande partie pour financer le service de la dette. Seuls  la solidarité internationale et le redressement des économies durement frappées  par la crise pourraient, dans ces conditions, permettre une mobilisation des  ressources en faveur de l'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement primaire.
44.13 Monsieur le Président, dans quelques mois le monde entier va célébrer  l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation. L'Unesco devra saisir cette occasion  pour sensibiliser les gouvernements des Etats membres sur les dangers du dévelop-  pement de l'analphabétisme et de l'illettrisme par suite du renforcement de la  crise économique internationale. Il sera également question d'inviter l'opinion  publique mondiale à une plus grande compréhension des différents aspects du pro-  blème de l'alphabétisation et à une intensification des actions d'alphabétisation  et de l'éducation populaire. Le Congo, comme vous le savez, a déjà fourni des  efforts appréciables dans ce domaine, comme en témoignent les nombreux prix qui  lui ont été décernés à titre d'encouragement par des institutions internatio-  nales. Pour préparer la célébration de l'Année internationale, la République  populaire du Congo a mis en place un comité national. Nous comptons sur la  coopération et la solidarité internationale pour gagner cette dure bataille que  nous menons depuis plusieurs années.
44.14 La République populaire du Congo apprécie très positivement la nouvelle  stratégie consistant à réunir dans un projet mobilisateur la qualité de l'ensei-  gnement de base et l'éradication de l'analphabétisme, tout en souhaitant que  cette stratégie intègre aussi un travail de réflexion et d'analyse susceptible  de donner un contenu universel au concept d'enseignement de base.
44.15 Quant au champ majeur de programme II (La science pour le progrès et  l'environnement), nous soutenons l'objectif énoncé dans le Projet de plan à moyen  terme, à savoir contribuer à combler le fossé qui sépare pays industrialisés et  pays en développement. En plus des actions prévues dans ce cadre, le Congo mani-  feste un intérêt tout particulier pour la formation en vue de l'intégration de  la science et de la technologie dans le processus de développement. Cette forma-  tion devrait mettre en avant le développement des capacités scientifiques natio-  nales, en vue de faciliter l'élaboration des politiques scientifiques et tech-  niques et leur mise en oeuvre, notamment en valorisant l'expertise universitaire  et en abaissant les barrières théoriques existant entre l'université, les indus-  tries et les institutions de financement.
44.16 Nous aimerions également marquer notre appréciation positive à l'égard  du programme concernant l'environnement et l'aménagement des ressources  naturelles.
44.17 Le Congo porte un intérêt particulier au champ majeur de programme III  (La culture : passé, présent et avenir) et soutient l'approche adoptée dans le  Projet de programme et de budget pour 1990-1991 qui prévoit la concentration des  programmes sur les trois grands domaines : éducation, science et culture. Nous  sommes heureux de constater que l'essentiel des préoccupations de notre pays en  matière culturelle sont prises en compte dans ce champ majeur III, qui s'articule  sur les quatre objectifs de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel, à  savoir la culture et le développement, le patrimoine, l'enrichissement des iden-  tités, la coopération. L'Unesco fait bien de souligner que la transformation  culturelle en cours peut contribuer à élargir le fossé entre pays riches et pays  pauvres. Le Directeur général l'a reconnu, en déclarant si justement, dans  l'allocution qu'il a prononcée à l'occasion de la collation du grade de docteur  honoris causa de l'Université autonome de Barcelone : "La révolution des techno-  logies, en introduisant la science dans la culture, y fait entrer du même coup,  comme par effraction, la vitesse. Le monde n'est-il pas en train de se briser en  deux hémisphères, en deux cultures - celle qui commande l'accès à la technique,  au savoir, au développement et celle des exclus, des laissés-pour-compte du  progrès ?,,. Craignons de répondre : "hélas oui !".
44.18 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme IV (La communication au  service de l'humanité), il faut s'interroger sur les incidences de l'introduction  des nouvelles technologies sur la formulation des politiques et des plans de  développement dans les pays en développement, notamment en Afrique. En effet,  les nouvelles technologies de la communication viennent bouleverser les habitudes  au moment où la révolution de la presse, de la radio, du cinéma, de la télévision  et du téléphone n'a pas encore atteint la majorité des pays africains.
44.19 L'inégalité des ressources en matière de communication dans le monde,  les problèmes posés par l'évolution très rapide et la sophistication de la tech-  nologie, ainsi que par les divergences de stratégie, rendent la situation préoc-  cupante dans la mesure où les éventuelles conséquences de l'introduction des  nouvelles technologies sont pour l'Afrique imprévisibles dans l'état actuel de  ses capacités en matière de recherche.
44.20 Le Congo estime que le changement de stratégie préconisé par le Conseil  exécutif à ses 129e et 131e sessions devrait permettre de dépasser les débats  qui ont conduit à des malentendus regrettables et dommageables à l'image de  notre Organisation. Les principes contenus dans l'Acte constitutif de 1'UneSCO  nous imposent d'affirmer celui de la libre circulation du mot et de l'image. En  ce sens, nous pensons que les propositions du Directeur général contenues dans
1'Annexe II au document 25 C/4 sont de nature à assainir le climat au sein de  notre Organisation et à nous permettre d'affronter les défis réels qui se  présentent aux pays en voie de développement.
44.21 Mais il convient aussi que la solidarité internationale s'exprime  concrètement. Les pays industrialisés peuvent faire un pas significatif dans ce  sens en apportant un appui plus effectif au Programme international pour le  développement de la communication, en contribuant notamment de manière plus  substantielle à son Compte spécial.
44.22 Au sujet du champ majeur de programme V "L'homme et la société dans un  monde en mutation", le Congo approuve les grandes orientations de 1'Unesco rela-  tives au développement international des sciences sociales et humaines ainsi  qu'à la contribution de la philosophie et des sciences sociales et humaines à  l'analyse des changements dans le monde contemporain. En effet, les sociétés  contemporaines connaissent des mutations rapides qui engendrent des problèmes  d'adaptation de l'homme à son environnement immédiat. La maîtrise de ces proces-  sus de changement implique une meilleure connaissance de l'homme et de ses rap-  ports avec l'environnement. Or, la contribution de la philosophie et des autres  sciences sociales et humaines dans les pays en développement est indispensable à  l'analyse interdisciplinaire des processus de changement social, dans lesquels  l'homme constitue le moteur du développement et c'est la raison pour laquelle le  Congo souhaite qu'une grande attention soit accordée à l'exécution- des diffé-  rentes activités constituant ce champ majeur de programme.
44.23 Pour ce qui est du champ majeur de programme VI "Contribution de
1'Unesco aux études prospectives et aux stratégies relatives au développement",  le Congo apprécie favorablement l'ensemble des problèmes théoriques évoqués et  marque globalement son adhésion aux cinq objectifs définis dans ce programme.
44.24 Quant au champ majeur de programme VII "Contribution de 1'UneSCO a la  paix, aux droits de l'homme et à l'élimination de toutes les formes de discrimi-  nation", le Congo appuie la réaffirmation de l'engagement de l'unesco en faveur  des valeurs liées à la paix, la solidarité internationale, la tolérance, ainsi  que la justesse de la réflexion et des actions envisagées qui visent à associer  plus étroitement la paix et le développement.
44.25 Monsieur le Président, les périodes comme celle que nous vivons aujour-  d'hui sont rares dans l'histoire. L'approche d'un millénaire a presque toujours  été l'occasion de paniques et de prédictions funestes. Aujourd'hui, l'espoir est  grand de voir, à échéance humaine,  blèmes du monde. Hélas, pas tous !  la solution de quelques-uns des grands pro-  Nos efforts restent encore vains contre cette  terrible calamité qu'est le SIDA. Devant l'absence de moyens thérapeutiques, il  n'y a que la prévention comme arme. L'Afrique se trouve malheureusement être,  encore une fois, le continent le plus durement touché. Notre Organisation,  l'Unesc0, qui a joué pendant ces quatre dernières décennies un rôle central dans  la recherche de la paix et de la compréhension entre les hommes, par la promotion  de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, a accumulé une expérience ines-  timable dans le domaine de l'information. Elle peut, face à ce défi, en mobili-  sant cette expérience, contribuer à la victoire. Aujourd'hui donc, bien que sub-  sistent de graves difficultés, le sentiment d'espoir domine. Un espoir raisonné,  car nous possédons, avec l'Unesc0, l'une des armes les plus efficaces dont  l'homme s'est doté, contre sa propre folie. Préservons-la ! Consolidons-la !  Développons-la ! Puissent les travaux de cette vingt-cinquième session de la  Conférence générale contribuer au renforcement de la solidarité internationale  face aux dangers qui menacent l'humanité. Plein succès à la vingt-cinquième ses-  sion de la Conférence générale de 1'Unesco ! Vive la coopération internationale !  Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie.
45. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Congo. We shall now adjourn the  meeting and meet here again tomorrow at 10 a.m.  La séance est levée à 19 h.50  The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 19.50  %Cf2JElHLiC 3aKpbIBXTCX B 19.50  FL v,o. LUI L;p Ll+l CLsdJ  MxTI~n$5IJ)%3tc: ”