Quatorzième séance plénière
25 octobre 1989, à 10 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M.RIESLE CONTRERAS (Chili)  Fourteenth plenary meeting
25 October 1989 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr RIESLE CONTRERAS (Chili)  Decimocuarta sesion plenaria
485    DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  O6CYX~EHMEBO~POCOBO6~E~~OJIMTMKM(IIPO~OJIXEHME)  (@) LWI -L&JI "LSL  .sGimR% (18)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. 1 declare the meeting open. As  there is no quorum at the moment, 1 propose to adjourn the meeting for five  minutes and we shall then proceed with our business if that meets with the  approval of the General Conference.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed with the general policy  debate and the first speaker is H.E. Dr Yayehyirad Kitaw, Minister of Education  and head of the delegation of Ethiopia. Excellency, you have the floor.
2.1 Mr KITAW (Ethiopia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, at the outset may 1 congratulate you, Mr President, on your unanimous  election. 1 have no doubt that under your competent leadership, the objectives  of the Conference Will be successfully accomplished. 1 would like to assure you  that my delegation Will contribute actively to your efforts to bring this  session to a successful conclusion.
2.2 It is with great pleasure that 1 welcome our neighbour - our sister  country - the Republic of Djibouti among us. My felicitations are also extended  to the Pacifie States of Cook Islands and Kiribati as full members of our  Organization.
2.3 The twenty-fifth session of the General Conference is convened at a  point in time when Unesco's pioneering and visionary perception of global peace  and security is becoming a reality as agreements on massive reductions in  inter-continental and medium-range strategic weapons by the two superpowers  continue to enhance the prospect of global peace. Conflictual situations in the  world are receding as the confrontational policies of the past decades continue  to subside and give way to a series of negotiations on a variety of world issues  that directly or indirectly affect the state of global peace.
2.4 Without a larger element of peace and security, Mr President, it is  obvious that our development efforts Will continue to be inhibited. That is why  our government has been consistently committed, and at this very moment is  giving priority, to the vigorous pursuit of peaceful solutions for long-standing  conflicts in our area. In the absence of a more rational approach to and a more  global concern for overall world development, the likelihood is that an  increasing proportion of mankind Will face greater difficulties in its struggle  for an acceptable standard of life. Without joint and effective action to  preserve and maintain the very environment on which humanity depends, a11 is  lost. We recognize, Mr President, that an effective approach to solutions for  the basic problems facing humankind cari be inhibited by the attitudes and the  interests of individuals and groups within the deeply differentiated societies  which make up our world.
2.5 In our General Conference we must provide this worldwide Organization  with a leadership profile and with a broad mandate for action. However, it is  also beholden on Member States to underpin the programme. This makes it our  responsibility, as the officia1 representatives of Member States, to articulate  and communicate the message that there is a national responsibility to create  and support the conditions which make full implementation of our jointly agreed  programme of action possible. Without a growing and a practical expression of  this partnership, our efforts Will be frustrated.
2.6 Although there is a wealth of important business for the General  Conference to transact, our central purpose is to give final form to the two  basic operational documents of Unesco: the Medium-Term Plan and the Programme  and Budget for the first biennium within the Plan. In both cases very clear  proposals have been presented to us.
2.7 In the plenary meetings, Mr President, we must resist the temptation to  discuss details and technical questions. These are for the commissions. Here we  are concerned with the documents as a whole, and with the degree to which they  express the broad purposes of our Organization. We are concerned with the way in
14  which these broad purposes have been related to the genuine needs of the world  community. Our final objective is a careful assessment of what we might be able  to achieve over the six-year period of the Plan and its initial two-year  programme of activities.
2.8 It is not appropriate here to review a11 aspects of document 25 C/4,  the initial programme set out in document 25 C/5, and the recommendations of the  Executive Board thereon. Allow me, therefore, to begin with principles and  priorities and focus on the central theme that the activities carried out by  Unesco as an organization (and by its Member States) must, during the period  covered by the third Medium-Term Plan, address themselves to the fundamental  questions of peace, development and the protection of the environment which  supports humankind. We cannot see any possible disagreement with these basic  positions, although we recognize that there Will certainly be debate (which we  hope Will be constructive and amicable), on the strategies to be followed to  ensure survival.
2.9 In the preparation of proposals for future action, we notice that there  has been a very high level of co-operation between the Director-General and the  Executive Board and its various working groups. We see the new presentation of  documents 25 C/l08 and 25 C/6 as symbolic of these joint efforts. A preliminary  study of these documents reveals a very clear presentation of the issues which  the General Conference must face and a very clear idea of the background  discussions which have led to the various proposals.
2.10 We would like to express our appreciation to the Director-General, the  Executive Board and the Secretariat for the time and labour which they have  devoted to the preparation of this session. In particular, we thank them for the  way in which they have greatly facilitated the participation of Member States  with limited resources.
2.11 Before concluding my comments on the generalities of documents 25 Cl4  and 25 C/!?i, may 1 turn for a moment to the Executive Board's proposed  amendments. Our delegation, Mr President, is pleased to see, and gives its full  support to the recommendation in paragraph 18 of document 25 C/108, and to the  views expressed in paragraph 8 of document 25 C/6. The first gives a very  necessary and correct elaboration of the real environment which limits the  activities of developing countries. The second could be instrumental in  providing a conceptual reorientation for future action.
2.12 We would now like to consider briefly some of the new general positions  for ways and means of implementing an agreed programme. First: the means. There  has been a very welcome movement towards a concentration, consolidation and  integration of programmes with pilot strategies within special projects,  mobilizing projects and transverse programmes. The latter are designed to make  the best use of resources, to promote interdisciplinarity and to achieve an  earlier and more obvious impact. Al1 in ail, the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the  proposals for its first biennium represent a streamlining for action and a  closer focusing on priorities. This should not be interpreted as a curtailment  of total action.
2.13 In these circumstances, to base urgent development proposals on the  concept of a zero-growth budget is not realistic. Our delegation gives its full  support, therefore, to the Director-General's request for budgetary  reinforcement. We must have an assurance. Mr President, that actions once  initiated Will be completed, and not subsequently wither away from lack of funds.
2.14 This position is taken in the light of the Director-General's very  strenuous and successful efforts to raise the level of external support for  Unesco's programmes and to redesign the mechanisms by which this support Will be  made available by other international organizations. Our delegation sees this as  one of the most significant of the Director-General's early achievements. It  must be matched, however, by parallel intensification of efforts within Unesco,  and this must be made possible through budgetary reinforcement for key actions.
2.15 Moreover, our delegation welcomes the significant increase, which  Mr Mayor proposes and the Executive Board supports, for the Participation  Programme. Al1 Unesco actions have yet to be fully evaluated, but there is no  doubt in our minds that the Participation Programme has great potential and has  demonstrated this in practice. Whether it takes the form of 'seed money' or  technical back-up, whether it provides training or advice, there has been a high  degree of impact. The Programme is a direct response to immediate needs defined  by Member States themselves, and generally leads to the initiation of longer  range action. The Participation Programme often facilitates demonstration  activity at national level which subsequently leads to the allocation of  resources for follow-up action. In many cases, it has a multiplier effect,  particularly through training, which facilitates further growth and development.
2.16 Let us turn, Mr President, to modalities for action. We feel that this  perhaps is the largest area requiring careful consideration. In simple terms:  how are we going to carry out the tasks which we define? Who is going to be  responsible and for what?
2.17 We must have a reasonable assurance that agreement on the allocation of  resources to priority programmes is going to result in effective action with the  best possible outcome.
2.18 The Director-General has initiated new approaches to the structure and  management of Unesco. The general trend of these new approaches is very  acceptable. A new organizational chart is presented in document 25 C/5 in which  some old offices have disappeared, some new offices have been created, and in  which there has been a regrouping of hierarchical structures. An attempt has  been made to provide for interdisciplinary and intersectoral co-operation.
2.19 The spirit of change is there, and the detailed implications Will, no  doubt, be reviewed by the various commissions.
2.20 However, Mr President, our delegation feels that, SO far, one essential  element is missing, and perhaps the General Conference would like to provide  time for its consideration.
2.21 As we know from general management practice, the way in which actions  are implemented is just as important as the identification of actions and the  allocation of responsibilities. It is most important that we should clothe our  structures with a systems approach to operational modes extending into  relationships and sequences for action. It is equally important that these  operational norms should be understood from the centre to the periphery.
2.22 We would like to know how the adjusted machinery is intended to  function in practice, and how this is intended to be an improvement over the  past. Indications are to be found in various documents, but 1 am sure that the  Director-General would be happy to draw them together for us.
2.23 Allow us to illustrate the need by reference to a specific example. We  refer to the special publication entitled 'Priority: Africa', which is a review  of proposed regional action in the context of the third Medium-Term Plan. It is  a recognition of the ver-y different level of development on this continent and  of the specific challenges to be faced there. We find little to disagree with in  this presentation, and we welcome the purpose of the publication in bringing  about a wider understanding of the actions required. There is no doubt in our  minds that Africa requires particular, if not special, consideration, and we  thank the Director-General for his recognition of these needs.
2.24 However, the following related questions are bound to be asked. How is  this programme going to be implemented? How is Unesco going to make available  the support which it says is available ? How are Member States expected to throw  their support behind Unesco programmes, and with whom do they deal for this  purpose?
2.25 Many of the answers to these questions Will emerge from practice and  with goodwill, but a basic operational and systematic concept is required SO  that practice is positive and goodwill may be fostered.
2.26 Questions of this kind Will arise in the programme areas of the various  commissions. However, in the interest of intersectoral action, they should not  be solved unilaterally. The answers should be integrated into an overall systems  approach to action.
2.27 Mr President, may we now turn to some specific programme issues which  we feel merit the attention of the plenary meeting.
2.28 Two events in the field of education, International Literacy Year and  the World Conference of Education for Al1 to be held in Thailand in March 1990,  have great significance for us. With regard to the first, we are very happy to  participate because 1990 cornes after ten years of concerted efforts in Ethiopia.  During this time we have succeeded in reducing illiteracy to less than 25 per  cent of the population - a victory of no mean cultural importance. The rate of  progress towards universal literacy has been such that it has overtaken the rate  of population growth, and the absolute number of illiterates in Ethiopia has  diminished significantly.
2.29 However, we prefer to see this fact as one stage in a long continuum  which leads from illiteracy and isolation to modern knowledge and skills,  through the acquisition of new and basic skills towards a reading society and  then a learning society.
2.30 This is a long and hard road, and each stage brings new problems and  challenges. We have involved around 25 million people in literacy classes and  over 20 million of these have gained their literacy certificates. The post-  literacy challenge is, therefore, immense. In one way or another, WC must cater  for the needs and the aspirations of a group in society which is fivc times  larger than a11 those currently engaged in forma1 education. In parallel actions  we must develop more effective ways of bringing these ncw skills to bcar on the  processes of general development.
2.31 In carryinq this OUL, Lhcre dre many practic-,1J pr-oblr~rus t 0 hi, f ,1cod.  Allow me to discuss one. Thc skills of reddinq <J nd writinq <l 10 <It)sollIt.c~ly  dependent on the availability ot paper which is :J rare cormiiodity in our country.  Paper is not the problem of Ethiopia alonc. It is a world problem which should  bc raised in Thailand next March whcn wt? are discussing 'educdtion for ail'. The  developing countries of Asia and Africa, which together have 68 per cent of 1. Il c:  world's population and the bulk of the world's illit~eratc pctople, are faced with  an acute shortage of this commodity.
2.32 Nevcrtheless, Mr President, we must pursue the goals of Lhe 1990 World  Conference, hoping that the action plan envisaqed to LE adopted by the  Conference Will be supported hy badly needed tinancial resources to enable the  developing countries to implcmcnt it. My governmcnt has completcd the national  preparations required to enablc it to participatc: in Lhc torthcominy reqional  conference on education for all. It also recognizes Lhis very cle,Jr evidcnce of  the efforts made by our Director-General to forqe new workinq links with other  organizations in the world system, in this case UNDP, UNICl:F and 1 BRL) . 'l'hc  adoption of common and mutually agreed objectives lor action c-d n only bc of  benefit to the world community.
2.33 Turning now to Major Programme Area II, we find that grcat efforts havc  been made to develop infrastructures, to train personnel and to stimulate and  support research in the dcvelopinq countries. In Ethiopia, w<? bave reccived  Unesco assistance in a11 these areas to help raise cdpa(-ities. The hard f act,  however, Mr President, is that the knowledge gap bctwt:en thc: industria 1 and tho  developing worlds in the fields of science and technology is wideninq at an  accelerating pace. This is a significant contrihutory factor to what t. Il<?  Executive Board has rightly called 'the detcriorating situation in Lhc  developing countries'. Knowledqe cari easily become monopoly powcr. Each quantum  increase in knowledge at the lcading edge of research raises new and formidable  problems for us as we strive to reach a competitive position in the use of  resources.
2.34 Referring to Major Programme Area III, WC? regard the possihility that  culture may be placed in a more central position in mobilizing J whole range of  capacities for development as a most cxcitinq prospcct. Our own experience has  shown very clearly that this is necessary. We welcome, ther-efore, the conceptual  framework, prepared for the World Dccade for Cultural Developmont dnd wc havc  taken steps to secure maximum returns from this interdisciplinary operation.
2.35 We reqard the carnp,iign lnunch(:d t 0 r t.hc prcservation 0 1 Iii :;t.or ic-,i 1  monuments in Ethiopia as an integral part ot thc role Lo bft pl,~yoci by ~:111t:ii10 in  development. Every society must grow in a holistic way, and knowlc:dqc: anti  appreciation of the achievemcnts of the past is part of that qrowth. WC very  much appreciate the way in which Unesco has participated in these efforts.
2.36 On a more persona1 level, may wc say that we are very happy to corne to  this General Conference session equipped with a first-hand assessmerit of thc  qualities and aspirations of Mr Mayor through his very early visit to Africa arid  our contacts with him in Addis Ababa. The purpose of this visit, followinq a  resolution of the General Conferencc, was to l?JunCh the Ethiopian Campaiqn for  the Preservation of Monuments of Historical Interest. We are most qrateful to  a11 concerned, and particularly to Mr Mayor, for providinq this cnmpaiqn with  such an auspicious beginning.
2.37 May we turn now, Mr President, to the previously contcntious area of  communication. Our comment is brief. We congratulate the Director-General on  presenting a formulation which is both clear and positive. WC refer Lo the  resolution proposed in document 25 C/4, Annex 1, pages 17-20, which, in OU 1  view, provides a very useful overview of tt1e consensus ot opinion on this  subject, incorporating as it does the views of the Executive Board at its 131st  session. We Will only add that, in the developing countries, and certainly in  Ethiopia, we continue to regard a rapid move towards parity in access to and use  of communication systems to be a matter of high priority.
2.38 Specifically, we regard the role played by IPDC in correctinq the  inequalities and imbalances in the infrastructure and flow of information as  highly commendable.
2.39 With the help of IPDC, Ethiopia is laying the groundwork for the  planned development of the infrastructure of and facilities for the  communication media. The establishment of the Mass Media Training Centre is one  of the priorities of the Government of Ethiopia. In this connection, it is the  desire of our country to continue to participate in the International Programme  for the Development of Communication in its effort to expand and develop  training facilities for media personnel and to develop national communication  infrastructures.
2.40 Much could be said about Major Programme Area VII. 1 Will confine my  remarks to the African context. Here, issues with which Unesco has long been  associated have now attracted deeper concern in the world community as a whole  and events are fast maturing. It is very much to be hoped that we cari agree to  include in our programme for the next two years and beyond it the kind of new  support which an independent Namibia Will require in the delicate first decades  of independence. May we, Mr President, anticipate the pleasure which we Will  doubtless be experiencing in welcoming this new independent State to our  Organization at the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference?
2.41 Next door to Namibia, in South Africa, there is what cari be described  as an acceleration of events in the inexorable trend towards the final  eradication of the evil system of apartheid from our continent.
2.42 We note that Unesco action ion this area Will be implemented within the  framework of a special project. The proposed wording of its title - 'The  establishment in South Africa of an egalitarian, non-racial society, free from  apartheid and reconciled with itself' - describes the tasks which must receive  our full and active support very clearly. My delegation considers that the  definition of actions to be taken by Unesco contained in the proposed  resolutions presented by the Director-General in document 25 C/4 Annex 1  deserves unanimous approval by the General Conference. My delegation also gives  its support to the recommendation of the Executive Board, on page 34 of document
25 C/108, to amplify the presentations in the Medium-Term Plan.
2.43 At this crucial point in the history of the South African people, it is  a matter of high responsibility for this General Conference to put together  these various proposals in a way which Will give support and encouragement to  those members of a11 the communities in South Africa who would prefer to live in  a society free from apartheid.
2.44 In conclusion, we would make a plea to the Conference for some thought  about much longer range issues. We have in mind, Mr President, that we are  living in a rapidly changing world, that by the end of the Century we Will have  had the most useful experience of 18 years' co-ordinated development planning  and implementation and that we Will also be able to assess the impact of changes  now being made in Unesco's structure and its capacity for appropriate action.
2.45 In the circumstances, we are in a very good position to reflect on the  needs of the twenty-first Century, in the first decade of which Unesco Will  attain its nature age of 60.
2.46 It seems to our delegation, Mr President, that it would be appropriatc  to include in the third Medium-Term Plan a mechanism aimed at ensuring that we  reach the threshold of the twenty-first Century in the best possible condition  for the next stage in long-range planning and implementation. If we cari cal1 our  present efforts Medium-Term Plan (Series One), we should now begin thinking  about the main characteristics of the future Medium-Term Plans (Series Two).
2.47 This is not the time for a major exercise of this kind. We cari,,  however, ask the Director-General to present some ideas about long-range plans  to the Conference at the twenty-sixth session. These should be founded on an  integrated approach to needs, priorities and implementation structures and  strategies. The first moves in this direction could be embodied in the proposais  for the second biennium of the third Medium-Term Plan.
2.48 It is almost certain that we Will not be involved in the implementation  of 'Medium-Term Plans (Series Two)', but there Will be adverse comments from our  successors if we neglect these long-term horizons. We must also bear in mind  that the enthusiasm with which we clothe our current efforts derives in part  from the sense of belonging to a continuum and, in part, from our responsibility  to maintain for humanity a horizon of hope. These are the central purposes of  Unesco. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Ethiopia, and 1 give the floor to  H.E. Mr Amrani 'Mayagila, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of  the United Republic of Tanzania.
4.1 Mr 'MAYAGILA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, Your  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania and on my own behalf, 1 wish to  join the other delegations in congratulating YOU, Mr President, on your  election. Through your leadership, 1 believe that the General Conference Will  deliberate carefully on a11 the items on its agenda and corne up with well  focused implementation strategies for the programmes proposed by the  Director-General for the future of humankind.
4.2 In the same vein, 1 wish to thank the Government of France for the warm  hospitality accorded to my delegation from the very beqinning of the Conference,  and to wish her people prosperity. The warmth of the French people surrounding  us bears witness to the French Government's continued support for and commitment  to the ideals oE the Organization. 1 would also like to join you in  congratulating Djibouti, Cook Islands and Kiribati, which as new Member States,  have joined the Unesco family of nations.
4.3 Mr President, we are a11 aware of the fact that the problems facing the  world today are multiple and intertwined. Poverty and hunger, ignorance and  disease, environmental pollution and illiteracy are just a few of the main  concerns of humanity worldwide. No one country cari fight against them  single-handedly: but a11 together we cari do it. It is for this reason that we,  from different backgrounds in the world today, still look up to this unity of  nations under the umbrella of Unesco as one of the best ways through which we  cari find logic and meaning in life.
4.4 The task of the Organization is therefore a noble one which must be  respected in order to bring people to acceptable levels of development. This  task has to be undertaken at a period when the world is confronted with a number  of critical and complex issues. There is the widening development gap between  the developed and the less-developed countries. There is the resultant poverty  that is strangling Third World countries. There is the possibility of  precipitating a Fourth World. There is the problem of environmental degradation  caused by mismanagement of natural resources. Al1 these are highly topical  issues which demand a lot of resources for tackling them. Unesco is faced with  a11 these demands at a time when Member States, especially in the Third World,  are experiencing economic hardships which affect the regular flow of their  revenues, and at a time when the United States of America and the United Kingdom  have withdrawn from the Organization.
4.5 Mr President, my government has been very much encouraged by the  Direcor-General's efforts to ensure that Unesco is progressing well even under  these difficult conditions, and forcefully moving to achieve its mandated  objectives. My delegation has been further heartened to hear the complimentary  remarks by the Chairman of the Executive Board concerning the Director-General's  receptivity and willingness to listen to and co-operate with the Member States  through the Executive Board. In this connection my delegation commends the  Director-General as an excellent international civil servant.
4.6 At the same time, Mr President, my delegation wishes to commend the  Executive Board on having thoroughly scrutinized the Draft Medium-Term Plan and  Administrative Plan, and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. We  understand that the Board and the Director-General have had to tackle very many  controversial issues in connection with the Medium-Term Plan. Yet, thanks to the  wisdom of the Board, we note in the recommendations and proposed modifications  that these issues have been adequately and satisfactorily handled. 1 shall corne  back to them later but first let me comment on the programmes.
4.7 First, concerning the environment, my government supports the efforts  undertaken by Unesco through the Man and the Biosphere programme (MAB) and urges  the Organization to take a leading role in programmes that Will redress the  disastrous situation that is threateninq human existence. Mr President, there is  an urgent need to co-ordinate scientific research and technological development  SO as to guarantee the safe use of scientific inventions and innovations. This  is an area where Unesco could co-operate with other United Nations organs and  non-governmental organizations to ensure better living conditions for humankind  and better management of world resources.
4.8 Similarly, in the first two major programme areas - Education and the  future; and Science for progress and the environment - we would like to express  our CU11 support for the activities planned and urge that they be well  implemented. However, we would like to stress the dire need for the development  of national capacities in the production of educational materials and the  strengthening of institutional and individual capacities in research.
4.9 1 would like to say something about the major programme areas on  culture and communication. Tanzania would like to register her appreciation of  Unesco's efforts to develop Kiswahili as an international language. After the  'General History of Africa', a Unesco-sponsored project, the Organization has  assisted the University of Dar es Salaam in translating a11 the volumes of this  work into Kiswahili. We also appreciate the significant support given by Unesco  to the Eastern African Centre for Research on Traditional African National  Languages in Zanzibar. None the less, we would point out that Africa is still  lagging behind in many other areas. It has been forced to utilize films and  videos from the developed world to the detriment of African cultural  manifestations. Given the role of the mass media as a mobilizing force in a11  forms of development, Unesco must address the question of training and  supporting artists in order to strengthen efforts towards the preservation and  development of art and culture in the region. We are hopeful that during the  next biennium the Organization Will take serious steps to facilitate further  development in these fields, including further development of Kiswahili to bring  it up to the level of being accepted in international forums.
4.10 Mr President, the concern about the plight of special groups in  different Member States expressed through Unesco's programmes is justified and  deserves our full support. Women, youth and the disabled in developing countries  continue to be marginalized in planning processes and are consequently left out  of training programmes for development. Therefore, Mr President, the  Organization's effort to help women, youth and the disabled to develop their  abilities for effective participation in national development is of vital  importance. Specific and concrete programmes must be worked out in order to  rectify this anomaly in the world community.
4.11 We would also like to suggest that though there are common problems  affecting a11 women, there are specific problems which are peculiar to the women  of Africa. We therefore cal1 upon the Director-General to try to take those  peculiarities into account when implementing the proposed special assistance to  Africa.
4.12 Permit me, Mr President, to comment very briefly on some particularly  pertinent issues for my delegation. 1 would like first to address myself to the  question of universality. The word 'universality' means of, or typical of the  whole of humankind and of nature; or existing or prevailing everywhere.  Universality of Unesco therefore presupposes its openness to States which adhere  to its principles and objectives. This basic philosophy of the Organization is  even more important now that the world is increasingly faced with borderless  problems whose solutions require the goodwill and participation of ail.  Universality of Unesco must therefore also mean not only its presence in a11  Member States but also that it must remove or work towards removing a11 barriers  which restrain the disadvantaged from benefiting from its programmes.
4.13 Associated with the question of universality is the contentious issue  of Communication. My delegation is satisfied with the cal1 for balanced  dissemination of information as opposed to the present unbalanced information  and communication system. The two concepts, free flow of information, and  balanced development of communication and information, and are not only mutually  exclusive. However, 1 believe free flow assumes the existence of a certain  amount of equality in the possession of capacities, resources and facilities by  the communicating parties to produce the required information for the intended  free flow between them. 1 believe that Unesco and, therefore, its Member States,  are not opposed to freedom of the press. Member States are opposed to the  distortion of news by those who monopolize the press, a situation which results  from the unbalanced system.
4.14 Mr President, allow me to tel1 the General Conference a story. In a  certain chiefdom the Chief one day was attentively watching a parade of youths  who were marching past the pavilion. The Chief's son was in the group.  Immediately after the last youth the Chief commented 'How is it that everybcdy  is out of step except my son?' Mr President, it is not those of us who are still  in Unesco - we who want balanced communication and information in order to  attain true free flow of information - who are out of step. It is the Chief's  son who is out of step.
4.15 Mr President, education, science and culture are things of common good  which are denied some peoples of this world. 1 have in mind the peoples of  Namibia, Angola and South Africa. My delegation would like to express ouï  special appreciation of Unesco's efforts to universalize its physical presence  in the various Regional Offices away from Headquarters. We would, however, wish  to draw special attention to the southern African region which is witnessing  more need for servicinq her displaced and returning citizens from apartheid  South Africa. Their plight has always been unprecedented and the region Will
14  therefore continue to make demands of Unesco in the preparations for their  participation in the management or the rehabilitation of their economies.
4.16 In similar vein, Mr President, 1 am inclined to comment on the  Director-General's appreciable efforts in identifying the priorities of Africa  in the document that has been circulated entitled 'Priority: Africa'. My  government whole-heartedly commends the Director-General on having initiated the  idea and would like to see the programme financed and implemented. We believe it  would benefit very much from the expertise available both at Headquarters and in  the Regional Offices.
4.17 Before 1 end my intervention, Mr President, it would be remiss of me  not to say something about the challenge sparked off by the Unesco-sponsored  second Conference of Ministers Responsible for the Application of Science and  Technology to Development in Africa (CASTAFRICA II) held in Arusha, in 1987. A  number of recommendations were made which require implementation by Member  States. We in the United Republic of Tanzania have established a national  committee with the task of implementing these noble recommendations. 1 would  therefore urge Unesco to work very closely with Member States and provide the  necessary and required support to help us a11 meet our targets.
4.18 Mr President, with these remarks, 1 wish the Conference the most  fruitful deliberations. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania,  and 1 cal1 on H.E. Mr Hector Riesle Contreras, Ambassador and head of the  delegation of Chile.
(6.1) Mr RIESLE CONTRERAS (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, distinguished ministers, your excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you most sincerely on your  election as President of this General Conference, which gives us particular  satisfaction not only because of your outstanding persona1 qualities but because of  the bonds of friendship that unite our countries. We should also like to pay a  special tribute to the President of the twenty-fourth session of the General  Conference, the Ambassador of our sister country, Guatemala, Mr Guillermo Putzeys  Alvarez, for the efficiency and ski11 with which he conducted the Conference and for  his generous commitment to Unesco’s authentic ideals. We wish to congratulate the  Director-General on the resolve and dedication he has brought to the much-needed  task of overhauling the Organization. Although significant progress has been made in  this respect, there is still room for more; we urge him once again to continue his  work to ensure that Unesco genuinely attains the objectives laid down in its  Constitution and SO responds to the major demands imposed by the current world  situation.
(6.2) We welcome the Cook Islands and the Republics of Djibouti and Kiribati as  Member States of our Organization. We are sure that their membership is a great  asset for Unesco and Will facilitate our task of attaining the common good in the  spheres of education, science and culture.
(6.3) Mr President, on the subject of culture, the need to concern ourselves with  the protection of cultural identities is becoming increasingly apparent; this  implies profound respect and regard for tradition which, as its very name suggests,  is the handing down of an estate - enriched, improved and renewed - from generation  to generation. In other words, it is not something fossilized, but dynamic and  alive. In this vital process, cultural traditions corne up against the criteria of  morality and effectiveness. In a little while we shall deal with a few ethical  aspects. But right now we wish to caution against the danger of the introduction -  in the name of social rationality - of an uncompromising rationalism, which often,  inadvertently or surreptitiously, conceals specific ideological or political choices  and tends to treat individuals, peoples and cultures as interchangeable units that  cari be manipulated at Will. In other words, to allow the cultural river of tradition  to dry up is to run the risk of exhausting the very source of a people’s identity,  vitality and creativity and seriously to jeopardize its integrated development and  indeed its very existence. Careful consideration of the links between culture and  development is therefore imperative.
(6.4) Mr President, the importance of cultural components in the development  process is self-evident. But we should like to make it quite clear that, however  important development may be for us all, it cannot be considered - in either  theoretical or practical terms - as something to which culture must simply be  adjusted or subordinated; and the spiritual values that give rise to it, shape it  and distinguish it cari certainly not be isolated. TO speak of culture, Mr President,  is also, etymologically, to speak of ‘cultivation’. The different cultures are SO  many ways of cultivating a single field that is humanity itself. It is in our common  human nature that human rights and the principles of universality and solidarity, SO  dear to our Organization, take root, and it is that nature that provides us with the  vital common ground where divergent cultures cari meet and make comparisons, to their  mutual benefit and enrichment.
(6.5) Mr President, if we are to overcome our Organization’s problems, which are  quite likely problems of direction rather than of execution, we are inevitably faced  with the problem of truth. Only the humble, disinterested and respectful search for
14  truth cari place us once more on the right path in our labours. Nothing seems to be  more necessary to the world today, Mr President, than an ethic that is objectively  rooted in humankind and in life. It is the only thing we a11 share; it is the only  thing that could constitute an objective basis for human rights, and it is the only  fixed criterion in the constant process of adaptation and development of cultures.  TO provide an objective basis for an ethic implies anthropology, and this in turn  implies a theory of knowledge and rational study of the intrinsic and extrinsic  causes of being. We believe that our Organization would make a significant  contribution to this undertaking if it were to exercise its role as a catalyst and  stimulus , providing inputs and guidance along these lines.
(6.6) We should also mention, particularly at this time when a charter on the  rights of the Child is being prepared, the vital importance that we attribute to the  recognition of children’s fundamental rights from the very moment of conception  onwards, and to the need for research on these delicate matters to pay the respect  due to what are, in effect, the very wellsprings of hwnan life.
(6.7) Mr President, the erosion of spiritual awareness and the stifling of  humankind’s concern with transcendence, the loss of value systems and a sense of the  fullness of life, as well as the uprooting and disintegration of cultural and family  identities, are a11 causes of the terrible bane of drug addiction. It is for  educational syllabuses and curricula and the media to counter this situation of  anomy, in which life is increasingly reduced to its physical and material aspects at  the expense of spirit, truth and love. We are well aware that this is not the  shortest route, Mr President, but in our view it is the only one that attacks the  root causes of the problem.
(6.8) Mr President, inseparable from the ethical and moral aspect is the theme of  human rights, SO distorted and mishandled in virtually a11 international  organizations, despite the fact that their remit is to treat it with the serious  conunitment and efficiency it deserves. In this connection, we must a11 recognize  that our Organization has, in recent years, made serious efforts to view the issue  of human rights in its true light as a genuinely humanitarian issue, and endeavoured  to assist those in need through dialogue and co-operation with Member States,  without seeking political confrontation or the arrogation of powers of jurisdiction  to itself. Consequently, Chile has given its unconditional support to the  proceedings of the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations. Of course, a great  deal still remains to be done; in this regard, much Will always have to be done by  a11 States and international organizations, but we believe that here in Unesco we  are on the right road.
(6.9) TO turn now to communication, we are aware of the decisive importance of  this sensitive topic, especially in the light of the tremendous impact of the  audio-visual media, which often poses a real threat to cultural identities. Chile  has constantly defended freedom of expression and we shall continue to do SO. One  possible solution - at least a partial solution - to some of the problems posed in  this connection is the conclusion of bilateral or regional agreements in areas that  share certain cultural characteristics, which would enable us to pool our resources  and our markets. We are not overlooking the difficulties arising from possible  ideological or political differences among countries in a single area; but we think  that in any case such an approach could lead to effective collaboration which would  improve the situation and help free this subject of the controversy that has  surrounded it until now.
(6.10) Mr President, this Conference is combining, for the first time, the  analysis and approval of the third Medium-Term Plan and the consideration and  approval of the Programme and Budget for 1990-1991. The Member States have now opted  for a more economical and apparently more suitable formula than that followed during  consideration of the second Medium-Term Plan. The new system has taken the form of a  t imely intensification of the preparatory work done by Member States, National  Commissions, non-governmental organizations and the Executive Board. It by no means  entails a reduction or setting aside of the power of States to express themselves  freely during this General Conference. We agree with the Director-General that  peace, development and environmental protection are today’s major challenges for  humankind. We firmly believe in an appropriate ethical approach to these themes,  without which our action would be pointless and, in the long run, of no avail. The  way the programme areas have been structured seems appropriate and indicates a  genuine effort to adapt them to needs. The reduction from 14 to seven major  programme areas is promising. We feel that the task that the Director-General has  set himself of ‘doing less in order to do better’ is one in which we should share.  One relevant criticism recently levelled at the Organization concerns the excessive  dispersa1 of activities, whether intellectual or operational. We believe that many  activities to which insufficient funds have been allocated for the 1990-1991  biennium are still unduly dispersed and lack impact. We urge that activities  continue to be evaluated, mainly by outside consultants but with inputs from the  Secretariat and the National Commissions. This is particularly desirable with regard  to the World Decade for Cultural Development.
(6.11) Mr President, the Chilean Government’s educational action is founded on the  political Constitution of 1980, which specifies that ‘the purpose of education is  full development at every stage in life’ and that ‘the family is the fundamental  nucleus of society’ , with the right and the obligation to educate its children. It  further states that ‘basic education is compulsory and the State must finance a free  system for that purpose’. In accordance with these criteria, the State has, in the  last ten years, earmarked for education one of the highest percentages of the  national budget in its history. The Chi.lean Government agrees with Unesco that  literacy work and basic education for a11 are fundamental responsibilities for each  Member State, and suits its actions to its words. Thus, basic education accounts for
49.44 per cent of the educational budget; secondary education for 19.75 per cent;  and early childhood education for 7.57 per cent. Over 3 million students are  enrolled in schools, a very satisfactory figure for a country of a little over
12 million inhabitants, which demonstrates the significant progress made in recent  years. The average period of schooling has increased to more than 8 years. Enrolment  in secondary education has virtually doubled in the last 15 years. The illiteracy  rate stands at 5.75 per cent, and is merely residual.
(6.12) The Chilean Government actively supports and participates in the Major  Project in the Field of Education in Latin America and the Caribbean and provides  a11 the facilities to ensure the proper functioning of the Regional Office for  Education.
(6.13) Mr President, in addition to the objectives of expanding education, to  which we have already referred, we attach special importance to its quality. We have  accordingly made vigorous efforts to reduce repetition, increase and improve  promotion rates and reduce drop-out. TO this end, we are working with more flexible  and active methods and with innovative approaches to curricula. We are, for example,  promoting the introduction of curricula that are appropriate to those areas of the  country inhabited by ethnie minorities, besides allocating additional subventions  for pupils in rural schools. The quality of education is being evaluated through a  programme known as the ‘Sistema de Medicion de Calidad de la Education’ (System for  Educational Quality Control) (SIMCE), and 250,000 pupils were recently tested for  that purpose. We are particularly interested in initiatives such as International  Literacy Year. The National Committee has decided that its most important activities  Will be as follows: support for measures taken to extend the coverage of basic  education; to avoid drop-out using innovative projects; and to evaluate national  literacy efforts over the last ten years. It is the Chilean Government’s firm belief  that a modern, functional and efficient education system cari be achieved only  through the application of an academic career system. The only way of improving the  status of teachers is to establish a structure that objectively represents a genuine  academic career ladder. An academic career must be functional and compatible with  the regionalization and decentralization of the education system, and also with the  current state of educational, economic and administrative development.
(6.14) The decisive importance for nations of the use and dissemination of  technology is no secret to anyone. Rather than the possession or lack of natural  resources, what really makes a difference between countries is the added value  inherent in those resources. Without a substantial scientific capacity and  infastructure it is impossible to have appropriate and adequate technologies. The  scientific community as well as the productive sector and the institutions that  generate technology must be aware of the need to estabiish the necessary correlation  between science and technology. In order to attain this objective, attempts are  being made to strengthen the capacity of human resources in order to carry out  research projects, acknowledge the importance of the human factor by offering  incentives, improve the structure and allocate State resources to the most promising  projects selected by competitions. These postulates are a11 contained in the Draft  Programme and Budget, and we concur with the Director-General’s view that Unesco’s  action should focus on the regional and interregional, mainly through scientific  co-operation networks like that of the biological sciences.
(6.15) Mr President, a brief word to request our Organization and its members to  wy special attention to the disturbing situation in Lebanon. We should do  everything in our power to ensure that peace returns to that country, togethtr with  the harmonious coexistence of its various population groups and the fuller enjoyment  of its sovereignty, free of foreign intervention throughout its territory. 1 believe  that few things could be more stimulating for us in Unesco than to see cultural  events such as the music festivals set in the splendour of the Baalbek Temple taking  place once more in that beautiful sister country,
(6.16) In conclusion, Mr President, 1 venture to say that the root of the problems  we have had to face in the Organization lies in the fact that we have often used it  as a platform for ideological, regional or commercial confrontation, forgetting that  its founders intended it to be a centre of thought, truth-seeking, generosity and  co-operation. We believe that the way ahead lies through overcoming this negative  attitude. We shall then be able to offer the world the assistance and collaboration  it SO sorely needs. May God help us to succeed for the good of humankind.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank H.E. Mr Hector Riesle, Ambassador of Chile.
7.2 1 now cal1 on H.E. Mr Cù Huy Cân, Minister and head of the delegation  of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
8.1 M. CU HUY CAN (Viet Nam) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames, Messieurs les chefs  de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, chers collègues, permettez-moi d'abord  d'adresser au Président de la Conférence générale, élu par acclamation -- c'est-à-  dire avec la confiance unanime de tous les Etats membres -  félicitations.  mes plus chaleureuses
8.2 Nous saluons fraternellement les nouveaux Etats membres : Djibouti, la  République de Kiribati, les îles Cook, qui viennent confirmer, s'il en est  bescin, le caractère universel de l'llnesco.
8.3 Nous nous réjouissons à la perspective de voir la Palestine nous  rejoindre dans deux ans comme Etat membre, la Palestine dont le Viet Nam a  toujours soutenu la lutte juste et héroïque.
8.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, cette session de la Conférence générale est d'une  importance particulière ; c'est une session charnière, car nous avons à examiner  le Projet de troisième plan à moyen terme et à restructurer dans une certaine  mesure le Secrétariat de 1'Unesco. Peut-être un tour d'horizon est-il nécessaire  avant de nous atteler aux actions concrètes.
8.5 Mesdames, Messieurs, à la veille du troisième millénaire, l'humanité  est prête, semble--t-il, à faire un bilan, le bilan de notre époque. Dans le  domaine de la connaissance, connaissance du monde et connaissance de l'homme,  jamais la science n'a fait de progrès aussi vertigineux, aussi fulgurants. Dans  l'infiniment grand, l'homme a commencé à explorer l'univers, et dans l'infiniment  petit, l'homme a percé les secrets de l'atome et de la cellule. Et l'on parle  déjà de la mainmise prochaine des savants sur  nité.  le patrimoine génétique de l'huma-  Cette explosion sans précédent des connaissances scientifiques et tech--  niques provoquera à courte ou longue échéance un renouvellement de notre compré-  hension du monde et de nous-mêmes.
8.6 Ce grand bond de la science a augmenté considérablement la productivité  du travail humain dans les pays hautement industrialisés lesquels, grâce à cela,  ont accumulé des richesses énormes  sciences et techniques  alors que les pays encore démunis des  dans la misère.  modernes contfnuent de vivre dans la pauvreté, parfois  Ce fossé qui se creuse entre pays riches et pays pauvres, dont  nous faisons tous état ici,  échanges  comment le combler sinon par une rectification des  encore inégaux et inéquitables dans bien des cas. L'instauration d'un  nouvel ordre économique mondial, tant de fois évoqué,  d'actualité brûlante.  reste toujours un problème  cette fin de siècle,  Le développement est sans nul doute le problème majeur de  avec la défense de la paix pour la survie de l'humanité.  Mais comment activer le développement de nos nations  équilibré ? Le problème si  sans un ordre économique  tiers monde ne recevra sa  aigu de la dette extérieure qui pèse sur les pays du  solution que dans la perspective d'un nouvel ordre  économique basé sur l'égalité dans les échanges,  la coopération,  sur les avantages mutuels dans  sur la solidarité dans le transfert des connaissances scienti-  fiques et techniques.
8.7 Aujourd'hui, nous savons tous que l'avenir proche et lointain des pays  hautement industrialisés est intimement lié à une coopération réfléchie, établie  sur un pied d'égalité avec  développement.  les pays du tiers monde, c'est-à-dire les pays en  Le Sud se développera grâce à la coopération efficace du Nord,  mais en contrepartie, le Nord gardera sa prospérité grâce aux échanges accrus  avec le Sud, grâce au développement du Sud lui-même,  des immenses potentialités économiques du Sud.  grâce à la mise en valeur  C'est là la vision juste d'un  monde solidaire - vision conçue non pas en terme d'idéalisme, mais en termes  réalistes d'interdépendance économique et de coopération économique rentable  pour tous les partenaires.
8.8 Un autre chapitre du bilan est le changement intervenu dans les rapports  entre les peuples, rapports politiques en premier lieu et rapports socio-écono-  miques qui se traduisent aussi en rapports culturels. Si le XIXe siècle a été le  siècle de l'apogée du colonialisme, le siècle de la perte de l'indépendance pour  de nombreux pays - dont ma patrie,  tout en sa deuxième moitié,  le Viet Nam - le XXe siècle par contre, sur-  est le siècle de l'émancipaton des peuples. N'est-ce    pas là un phénomène majeur à mettre à l'actif du bilan ? Voyez-vous, la grande  majorité des pays membres de 1'ONU comme de 1'Unesco sont des pays nouvellement  indépendants. Le monde, tel que nous le voyons aujourd'hui, a émergé du grand  mouvement d'émancipation des peuples de notre siècle.
8.9 Un autre acquis de notre temps c'est l'effort général des peuples pour  le progrès social, pour plus de justice et d'égalité dans le monde, comme au sein  de chaque nation. Mais le progrès social ne se réalise qu'avec la participation  de tous, dans la dignité et avec la haute conscience de chacun. Le progrès social  doit aller de pair avec la démocratie, laquelle n'est pas seulement une exigence  politique - ou même éthique - mais qui est aussi une base solide du développement  matériel des pays grands ou petits. La démocratie est la garantie des droits de  l'homme. Et les droits de l'homme se réalisent en liaison avec le droit des  peuples. Voilà encore un acquis positif de notre époque. Développement et progrès  social ne peuvent se réaliser que dans la paix et dans l'indépendance des  peuples. Construisons donc la paix, consolidons la paix par une coopération plus  active, plus fructueuse, avec plus de justice et d'égalité. Rendons hommage,  Mesdames et Messieurs, aux grandes puissances détentatrices d'énormes forces  nucléaires d'avoir su se contenir pour ouvrir toute grande la perspective d'une  paix définitive pour l'humanité. Nous n'aurons plus ainsi le cauchemar de la  destruction atomique de notre terre, qui doit rester la "terre des hommes" comme  l'a si bien nommée Saint-Exupéry, le grand écrivain français qui symbolise  l'honneur et le courage de notre époque. C'est non seulement la terre, mais aussi  l'univers - que nous commençons à explorer - qui doit rester l'univers des  hommes, et non pas l'univers des poussières radioactives.
8.10 Mais, voyez-vous, il nous faut déjà protéger les ressources de notre  avenir sur la terre elle-même. Le problème de l'environnement se pose avec acuité  depuis des décennies. Conjugons donc nos efforts au sein de 1'Unesco dans ce  combat planétaire pour protéger et assainir notre environnement.
8.11 Il est une autre ressource, d'importance vitale pour nous, que nous  devons défendre et enrichir en même temps, je veux parler de nos identites  culturelles respectives. L'accession de nos pays à l'indépendance a permis la  floraison de nos identités culturelles dans un concert universel telle une fête  de la création et de la créativité de l'esprit et de la sensibilité humaine.  Mais nous devons faire attention au danger d'uniformisation que présente l'impor-  tation inconsidérée de certains programmes culturels.
8.12 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, pour ce qui est du troisième  Plan à moyen terme, nous remercions vivement le Directeur général, M. Federico  Mayor, d'avoir patiemment oeuvré pour la concentration des programmes tout en  gardant l'essentiel des grandes orientations arrêtées par l'Organisation. Ce  faisant, nous rendons également hommage au Conseil exécutif et à son Président,  M. Vargas, pour avoir collaboré étroitement avec le Directeur général et lui  avoir apporté un soutien très nécessaire pour mener à bien ce travail à la fois  ardu, difficile et délicat. Le président de la Conférence générale, M. Putzeys  Alvarez, a également prêté son concours efficace à cette tâche.
8.13 Ce troisième Plan à moyen terme est en quelque sorte un pont jeté sur  le début du XXIe siècle . il s'efforce de rassembler les forces de l'unesco,  d'avoir une vision juste 'de l'avenir qui nous attend avec ses grands défis, mais  aussi avec la perspective d'un développement plus dynamique encore de la science  - sciences sociales et sciences exactes à la fois. Ainsi, comme nous le disions,  par ce troisième Plan, 1'Unesco rassemble ses forces avant de s'engager sur la  grande trajectoire du développement de l'humanité, avant le grand départ pour le  troisième millénaire.
8.14 Je voudrais maintenant examiner ici certains de nos objectifs. Dans le  champ majeur de programme I (L'éducation et l'avenir), nous reprenons l'objectif  de l'élimination de l'analphabétisme d'ici à l'an 2000. Evidemment, il faudra  faire tous les efforts possibles pour atteindre ce but, mais nous pensons que ce  sera très difficile, compte tenu de tous les obstacles que nous connaissons ; et  puis il y a les personnes qui retombent dans l'analphabétisme après avoir été  alphabétisées, parce que la postalphabétisation si nécessaire n'est pas encore  bien organisée partout. Pour que l'action en faveur de l'alphabétisation soit  plus efficace, il faudra sans doute une mobilisation socio-politique des masses  pour cet objectif majeur. Une fois que les masses sont conscientes de la néces-  sité de s'alphabétiser, elles s'alphabétiseront elles-mêmes, avec l'aide de
1'Etat bien entendu. C'est là du moins l'expérience de certains de nos pays dans  ce champ d'action.
8.15 Un autre point sur lequel nous voudrions insister, c'est que, outre la  diffusion des connaissances scientifiques si nécessaires à notre époque, l'éduca-  tion doit inculquer à la jeunesse de chaque pays son identité culturelle comme
14  noyau de créativité, comme dynamisme intérieur pour la formation de l'homme.  C'est cela aussi qui garantira un juste développement endogène de nos pays.
8.16 Pour une bonne éducation de la jeunesse, la collaboration de la famille,  de l'école et du milieu social (village, hameau, rue, etc.) est de première  importance : la famille doit être la première école pour l'enfant et l'école la  première société où l'enfant fera l'apprentissage de la vie sociale. Sans liaison  étroite entre l'école et la famille, la qualité de l'éducation s'en ressentira.
8.17 A l'orée du XXIe siècle, nos pays, surtout les pays en développement,  sont en train de restructurer l'enseignement supérieur et l'enseignement tech-  nique pour répondre adéquatement aux besoins changeants de la société. Notons  que l'enseignement des sciences sociales doit être renforcé lui aussi et mieux  adapté à la société nouvelle. L'utilisation des moyens audiovisuels dans l'édu-  cation a permis de réaliser des progrès appréciables dans certains pays avancés.  C'est là aussi un outil supplémentaire pour renforcer l'éducation dans nos pays  en développement.
8.18 Notre délégation apporte son plein soutien aux trois programmes du champ  majeur II (La science pour le progrès et l'environnement). Nous voudrions insis-  ter à cet égard sur quelques objectifs concrets. Les pays en développement  manquent encore des structures nécessaires pour une meilleure recherche scienti-  fique, et manquent surtout d'équipement. Nous comptons sur la coopération avec  les pays du Nord comme avec les pays du Sud pour compléter nos équipements et  renforcer nos structures.
8.19 Nous, Vietnamiens,  gies,  commençons à nous approprier certaines biotechnolo-  domaine dans lequel nous sommes en retard. Nous avons une mer tropicale  riche en réserves biologiques et même en réserves génétiques. La nature tropi-  cale, d'une façon générale, est encore peu explorée, peu étudiée, et pourtant  c'est là que se trouvent les grandes réserves de ressources, les grandes réserves  de vie. Les recherches sur la faune et la flore tropicales - en milieu terrestre  comme en milieu marin - nécessiteront la coopération des instituts de recherche  des pays du Sud et du Nord. C'est là un champ de coopération régionale, sous-  régionale et internationale fructueux pour tous.
8.20 En ce qui concerne les sources d'énergie nouvelles et renouvelables,  notre pays est riche en soleil, en marées fortes, en tempêtes et en typhons  aussi. Nous demandons à 1'Unesco de nous aider à mettre en place des équipements  pour convertir ces forces naturelles souvent dévastatrices en énergie utile. Des  recherches préliminaires doivent être entreprises au niveau régional, grâce à  une coopération régionale, bien entendu avec l'aide technique et financière du  centre (c'est-à-dire du Siège à Paris). Le problème de l'environnement est pour  notre pays un signal d'alarme parce que la déforestation - pour des raisons  diverses - continue à menacer la régularité du régime hydrologique de nos fleuves  et, de ce fait, la productivité de nos rizières. L'Unesco nous a aidé récemment  à organiser des réunions pour sensibiliser l'opinion publique au problème de la  conservation de l'environnement, d'importance vitale pour notre peuple. Evidem-  ment, notre gouvernement a déjà pris les mesures nécessaires, à court et à long  terme, pour protéger la nature dans notre pays, laquelle doit continuer à nourrir  et à protéger l'homme. A propos de ce champ majeur de programme II, il me reste  à souligner l'importance de l'information scientifique. S'il y a déséquilibre  dans le domaine de l'information en général, ce déséquilibre est encore plus  accusé et plus préjudiciable en ce qui concerne l'information scientifique. Là,  le déséquilibre est en sens inverse, c'est-à-dire que les pays en développement  reçoivent trop peu d'informations scientifiques pour des raisons que nous  connaissons ou que nous ne connaissons pas encore. Nous pensons que le PI1 et le  PIDC permettront de remédier à cet état de choses.
8.21 L'impact du développement des sciences et des technologies sur la vie  de nos peuples sera neutralisé par le respect de nos identités culturelles, qui  d'ailleurs doivent intégrer les nouveaux acquis de la civilisation humaine.
8.22 La culture a toujours été pour nous une prise de conscience individuelle  ou nationale. C'est pourquoi notre gouvernement comme notre peuple ont de tout  temps attaché la plus grande importance à la préservation et à la conservation  du patrimoine culturel national (patrimoine oral, patrimoine écrit, ou patrimoine  physique tel que monuments, oeuvres d'architecture, etc.). Rappelons que les  monuments de la ville de Hué, ancienne ville impériale du Viet Nam, ont fait  l'objet d'une campagne internationale de restauration. L'aide internationale,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sera très précisuse. Nous avons créé des musées non  seulement dans notre capitale, Hanoï, mais aussi dans nos provinces. Nous com-  mençons même à créer un musée d'art international à Hanoï avec des copies, des  reproductions d'oeuvres célèbres que nous ont déjà envoyées ou nous enverront  les musées de nombreux pays, pour permettre à notre peuple d'accéder aux beautés  qu'ont créées les autres peuples.
8.23 Mais chez nous l'art, s'appuyant sur le patrimoine, ne se tourne pas  pour autant vers le passé. Nos écrivains et artistes vivent en liaison étroite  avec le peuple, et leurs messages sont leurs voix personnelles, mais tout aussi  bien la voix de la cité. Cet art engagé ne perd rien de son profond humanisme  qui est une vocation séculaire de notre culture nationale. Nous devons aussi  créer des conditions favorables pour la participation des masses à la création  artistique et intellectuelle.
8.24 Les échanges culturels contribuent à renforcer la compréhension entre  nos peuples. A ce titre, les chefs-d'oeuvre littéraires traduits et publiés dans  la Collection Unesco d'oeuvres représentatives doivent compter un plus grand  nombre d'oeuvres des pays nouvellement indépendants, pour la simple raison que  leurs cultures n'étaient pas connues auparavant du grand public international.  Que de richesses l'on a découvert depuis, qui s'incorporent au patrimoine cultu-  rel commun de l'humanité ! Monsieur le Directeur général, le budget imparti à  cette activité ne doit pas être réduit.
8.25 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme IV (La communication au  service de l'humanité), nous pensons que la revendication d'un nouvel ordre  mondial de l'information est toujours légitime. La décision adoptée par le  Conseil exécutif à sa 129e session, en voulant éviter les controverses, n'a pas  résolu le problème dans sa totalité. Il est entendu cependant que le programme  prévu pour renforcer les capacités de communication dans les pays en développe-  ment, pour leur permettre de participer plus pleinement au processus de communi-  cation, reste très valable et nous devons le doter d'un budget suffisant.
8.26 Mesdames, Messieurs, chers collègues, 1'Unesco a fait ses preuves. Comme  forum de coopération intellectuelle internationale, elle est sans précédent dans  l'histoire. Sur le plan opérationnel, elle a mené, en collaboration avec les  Etats membres, des actions efficaces, tant dans le domaine de la préservation du  patrimoine culturel de l'humanité que par l'aide technique nécessaire apportée à  de nombreux pays, surtout les pays en développement. La sauvegarde des monuments  de Nubie est une très belle page de l'histoire du monde, et la lutte contre la  désertification en Afrique et en Asie est un exemple de ce que peuvent faire les  hommes pour les hommes quand ils sont animés par l'esprit de solidarité et de  fraternité. Et ce qui est plus précieux encore dans l'action de l'Unesco, c'est  la promotion des mouvements d'idées d'une haute valeur éthique, telle sa Décla-  ration sur les races et les préjugés raciaux adoptée en 1978.
8.27 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons surmonté ensemble bien des diffi-  cultés. Beaucoup de nouvelles difficultés nous attendent encore. Unis, soli-  daires, nous allons de l'avant. Rappelons-nous les grandes conclusions que nous  avons tirées : l'humanité est une, la paix est une, et le développement du monde  dans son ensemble doit être aussi un mouvement indivisible. Forts de notre bonne  volonté commune, engageons-nous pour l'avenir et pour une meilleure humanité.  Merci de votre attention.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet  Nam.  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIOYS (suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Before we continue the general policy debate 1 would like to inform the  General Conference that the Director-General has received a letter from the  Dominican Republic invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8 (c), of  the Constitution. This means that subject to the approval of the General  Conference the Dominican Republic Will be permitted to vote in accordance with  those provisions. Do you agree?
10.2 I see no objection. It is SO decided.
14  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OSCY>KAEHMEBO~POCOB06~E~~O~MTMKM(~~PO~O~>KEHME)  (& -L¶w1 -L&Jt -uLA  PB%pifS ( il% 1
11. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now continue the general policy debate, and 1 give the floor  to H.E. Mr V. Feaux, Minister and head of the delegation of Belgium.
12.1 M. FEAUX (Belgique) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d'abord vous féliciter à l'oc-  casion de votre désignation à cette haute fonction et je forme le voeu que sous  votre présidence, cette vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale de
1'Unesco connaisse le succès espéré de tous.
12.2 Monsieur le Directeur général, je tiens également à vous remercier, vous  et les membres de votre Secrétariat, pour les efforts constants que vous faites  en vue d'améliorer le fonctionnement et le rayonnement de 1'Unesco. La Belgique  apprécie ce que vous faites en la matière et je dois vous dire que votre récente  visite en Belgique à laissé un excellent souvenir chez tous ceux, et ils sont  nombreux, qui s'intéressent à votre action et à l'action de 1'Unesco.
12.3 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, en cette fin du XXe siècle  on voit se profiler à  désarmement progressif,  l'échelle du monde certains signes encourageants. Le  simultané et contrôlé des grandes puissances substitue  une dynamique nouvelle et pacifiste à la folle et ruineuse course aux armements.  Un climat de détente s'installe et s'étend. Aurions-nous imaginé, voici une  décennie,  péenne" ?  entendre le Président de l'URSS évoquer la "Maison commune euro-  N'assistons-nous  et meurtiers ? Hier,  pas à l'extinction de certains conflits dramatiques  c'était la fin de la guerre Iran-Irak, aujourd'hui l'apai-  sement a gagné le Tchad, l'Angola, l'espoir renaît au Nicaragua  voire au Liban ; et même l'Afrique du Sud commence à bouger et a  au Cambodge,  évoluer dans  une direction opposée à l'apartheid.
12.4 En cette année du bicentenaire de la Déclaration des droits de l'homme  et du citoyen, un vent de liberté souffle sur le monde . me permettez-vous de  souhaiter qu'un vent d'égalité se lève pour réduire les injustices ? L'Europe de  l'Ouest peut et doit se rapprocher de l'Europe de l'Est . . . mais sans se détour-  ner pour autant des peuples du Sud. Le problème de la dette des pays en dévelop-  pement a - enfin ! - été posé. Des gestes, des actes significatifs ont été  accomplis par certains pays et  sais,  la Belgique s'honore de compter parmi eux. Je  comme vous, tout le passif que l'on peut mettre dans l'autre plateau de la  balance. Il demeure que ces frémissements peuvent nourrir nos espoirs...
12.5 Mais ce monde, il est vrai,  misère,  reste fracturé par la frontière de la  une frontière qui passe entre  industrialisés certes,  les pays en développement et les pays  mais aussi à l'intérieur même de ces derniers où se crée  une société duale. Dans ces pays désormais où la majorité de la population a un  niveau de vie satisfaisant,  à25%-  une part de cette population - qui peut atteindre 20  vit en état de précarité, voire de pauvreté. On l'évalue à 44 millions  de personnes dans la Communauté économique européenne.
12.6 L'Unesco a un rôle majeur à jouer dans  humain,  le combat pour un monde plus  c'est-à-dire plus juste et plus fraternel qui ne s'établira que par une  meilleure répartition des richesses et des pouvoirs. On a dit que le savoir,  c'est le pouvoir, n'est-ce pas plus vrai que jamais dans un monde où les savoirs  permettent de maîtriser les nouvelles technologies, d'inonder le monde de mes-  sages audiovisuels,  tion in vitro  de découvrir l'espace et de réaliser la vie par la féconda-  ? Autant de chances qui sont aussi des risques mais qui assurent  la domination de ceux qui en possèdent les clés.  savoirs.  Aussi faut-il partager les
12.7 La Décennie mondiale du développement culturel met légitimement l'accent  sur la dimension culturelle du développement. La Belgique apporte sa contribu-  tion à cette décennie dans les domaines de l'art, de l'histoire, de la solida-  rité. A côté de l'exposition Americana pour les 500 ans de la découverte du Nou-  veau monde, elle organise une exposition itinérante d'art graphique tactile des-  tinée aux aveugles. Logique avec ses souhaits elle propose une étude de faisabi-  lité d'une chaîne de télévision transfrontières de 1'Unesco. Enfin, elle dépose  un projet de recherche sur la solidarité dans les sociétés multiculturelles,  projet auquel elle attache le plus grand prix.
12.8 De même qu'il ne peut y avoir de développement économique sans prise en  compte de ses retombées écologiques, le développement social ne peut se concevoir  sans la sauvegarde et la promotion des valeurs culturelles qui donnent au groupe  son identité sociétale : ici, comme partout, le facteur humain est prépondérant.
12.9 1990, année de l'alphabétisation marque bien nos priorités. Sans doute  la lutte contre l'analphabétisme concerne-t-elle au premier chef les peuples du  tiers monde ; mais dans les pays industrialisés subsistent - dans le quart monde  comme dans les populations immigrées - des poches d'analphabétisme à côté d'un  processus insidieux de désalphabétisation. Des dizaines de milliers de gens se  nourrissent des modes de communication audiovisuels et désapprennent à lire et à  écrire. On évalue à 500 000 en communauté française de Belgique (plus de 10 % de  notre population) le nombre de ceux qui éprouvent de graves difficultés à lire  et à écrire.
12.10 La culture se transmet par la famille et par l'école. Il faut tendre  dès que c'est possible, "sans précipitation hâtive mais sans atermoiements  funestes", à ce que dans le monde entier les enseignants soient des autochtones.  Ils seront des vecteurs culturels privilégiés. Encore leur faudra-t-il éviter le  piège d'une école reproductrice d'inégalités. Chez nous comme ailleurs, l'école  tend à être le reflet de la culture dominante alors qu'il lui faudrait, au  contraire, compenser les inégalités socioculturelles en favorisant les défavo-  risés. Comme le disait une Fédération d'associations de parents "Rien n'est plus  inégal qu'une école égale pour des enfants inégaux".
12.11 L'on redécouvre aujourd'hui la richesse des cultures minoritaires, du  patrimoine dialectal, de la mémoire collective des peuples et des groupes  sociaux, des multiples formes d'expression des cultures populaires : chant,  danses, fanfares, théâtre amateur, fêtes et sports.
12.12 Si nos cultures plongent leurs racines dans le passé de nos peuples,  elles s'enrichissent aussi de valeurs actuelles * l'éducation à la paix et au  développement, la solidarité transfrontières, la' rencontre interculturelle, la  défense de l'environnement...
12.13 Le développement culturel est l'affaire des peuples. Si ses canaux sont  la famille et l'école, il faut aussi me semble-t-il y ajouter le monde associatif  qui, par ses regroupements volontaires et multiformes de citoyens, alimente la  vie culturelle, cultive la convivialité, crée un climat propice à la création.
12.14 On assiste aujourd'hui à un double mouvement des peuples du monde :  d'une part, ils se regroupent dans des communautés régionales à l'échelle de  continents, de parties de continents ou de groupes intercontinentaux - de l'OUA,  à la CEE en passant par le monde islamique - et, de l'autre, il y a résurgence  des peuples qui ne se reconnaissent pas toujours dans les Etats auxquels ils  appartiennent. Ces mouvements ne sont contradictoires qu'en apparence ; en réa-  lité, on se regroupe mais en affirmant son identité. Il faut, me semble-t-il,  permettre et encourager ces deux démarches : opprimer un peuple, étouffer une  culture, c'est finalement appauvrir l'humanité... Il faut permettre l'émergence  de toutes les cultures et appeler finalement tous les citoyens à y participer.
12.15 La participation de tous à la culture doit s'entendre non seulement  comme la possibilité pour tous d'accéder à la culture classique - c'est ce qu'on  appelle la démocratisation de la culture - mais bien davantage comme la promotion  d'une authentique démocratie culturelle qui prend en compte les valeurs, les  styles et modes de vie, les coutumes, les créations et les expressions des dif-  férents groupes de la population. "La culture, disait Marcel Hicter, qui fut un  grand humaniste et le Directeur général de la culture chez nous, c'est la prise  de conscience des hommes dans la cité" et il disait aussi, avec une conscience  aiguë des aspirations des peuples opprimés "la culture, c'est le contraire de  l'humiliation".
12.16 Existe-t-il des peuples sans culture ? N'est-ce pas une culture commune  qui permet aux uns et aux autres de s'identifier, de se reconnaître comme appar-  tenant à une même communauté, nourrie des mêmes rêves et regardant les mêmes  cieux ?
12.17 Il est essentiel de préserver l'identité culturelle des peuples et des  groupes sociaux car la richesse naît de nos différences. La mondialisation doit  nous permettre de nous rencontrer, pas nous dissoudre ; nous sommes, les uns et  les autres "des gens qui sont nés quelque part", un quelque part qu'il ne faut  ni oublier, ni renier... Nous allons au monde par nos voyages, nos congrès, nos  rencontres, nos vacances et le monde pénètre chez nous par "l'étrange lucarne"  comme par la radio, les vidéos, les livres, les journaux. Si elle est ce qu'on  appelle un média froid, il n'en demeure pas moins que la télévision est, à  l'échelle du monde, le plus fascinant des modes de communication de masse. Elle
14  peut être un moderne assommoir ou une véritable université du soir à domicile,  selon ce qu'on choisit mais aussi selon ce qu'on nous donne à choisir.
12.18 Je veux dire ici que la polémique qui s'est développée au sein de la  CEE au sujet de la télévision sans frontières est un débat de société aux enjeux  considérables, voire vitaux. L'exigence de quotas européens ne relève pas d'un  quelconque protectionnisme abusif mais est la garantie de survie des cultures  minoritaires. N'est-ce pas un réflexe particulièrement sain pour un corps social  que de vouloir exprimer son identité par ses artistes, ses écrivains, ses  cinéastes et par les mille formes de sa culture populaire ? Il nous plaît que  notre paysage audiovisuel ait la couleur de nos villages, que nous y trouvions  nos repères, nos mots, nos modes, nos chansons... Et les émissions non confor-  mistes dérangeantes, subversives sont une part précieuse du patrimoine de notre  démocratie culturelle. Ce combat que nous menons est aussi celui des peuples en  développement aux valeurs culturelles trop souvent méconnues et qui ont à nous  apprendre et à nous raconter leur histoire, leur vécu quotidien, leurs espoirs  et leurs rêves.
12.19 La CEE n'a pas à ce jour entendu cet appel mais rien n'est perdu, rien  n'est joué et la prise de conscience des enjeux gagne de jour en jour. Déjà les  présidents Jacques Delors et François Mitterrand ont dit leur volonté d'émergence  d'une Europe des cultures qui ne soit vassalisée par quiconque. De surcroît, la  menace des quotas européens amène certains géants américains de l'audiovisuel à  revoir leurs prétentions à la baisse et à s'engager dans des projets communs (ce  qu'ils appellent des "joint ventures") où non seulement le capital mais aussi la  conception culturelle et la réalisation artistique sont partagés à égalité avec  les Européens. Le Monde radiotélévision des 22 et 23 octobre cite l'exemple  d'une série télévisée de six heures, "Descartes, le scandaleux" qui, devant  "déboucher sur un network américain, respectera en tous points l'identité  européenne".
12.20 Ce que nous voulons donc, c'est une interculturalité authentique, riche  de nos différences et non une sous-culture aliénante et stéréotypée qui serait à  la culture ce que la musique militaire est à la musique.
12.21 Et l'on peut rêver - la communauté française de Belgique le fait dans  un projet dont je vous ai parlé - d'une télévision sans frontières de 1'Unesco  qui elle, tout au contraire, favoriserait nos échanges, nous apprendrait à mieux  nous connaître les uns les autres, doterait 1'Unesco d'un moyen de communication  moderne à la mesure de son message et représenterait un "plus" culturel à  l'échelle de l'humanité.
12.22 Si le développement culturel concerne l'ensemble de la population, il  interpelle singulièrement la jeunesse, la génération montante qui fait ses choix  et prépare demain. Il n'y a pas de jeunesse homogène ; même là où on la fait  marcher au pas, on s'avise qu'il n'est pas possible de la faire penser au pas.  Dans le monde industrialisé, il ne faut pas nous le dissimuler, nombre de jeunes  ont intégré l'idéologie de la performance, de la réussite individuelle, de la  lutte des places. Ils n'ont d'autre idéal que de réussir au sens le plus matériel  du terme, d'être des gagnants sans souci des perdants, sans projet de société et  sans être le moins du monde culpabilisés de contribuer à bâtir, au niveau des  peuples et des personnes, un monde inégalitaire où le luxe des uns passe avant  le nécessaire des autres.
12.23 C'est une autre jeunesse qui porte nos espoirs. Celle qui est aux avant-  postes de tous les combats : pour la paix et le développement, contre le racisme  et la xénophobie, pour la sauvegarde de l'environnement, pour une société sans  exclus et laissés-pour-compte. Ces jeunes sont véritablement alternatifs : ils  veulent réussir leur vie plutôt que réussir dans la vie, ils pensent solidarité,  pluralisme, interculturalité. Dans la famille nouvelle, ils sont les nouveaux  pères qui rejettent les vieux stéréotypes, jouent avec leurs enfants, expriment  leur sensibilité, vivent une relation de partage des tâches et des responsabi-  lités avec des femmes présentes dans le monde et plus seulement dans leurs  foyers. Minoritaires ? Peut-être. Mais les révolutions ne sont-elles pas faites  par des minorités ? La révolution qu'ils préparent, c'est celle de la qualité de  la vie, de la primauté de l'être sur l'avoir, de la convivialité sans frontières.  Ils tendent, selon la belle expression du sociologue québécois Maurice Champagne-  Gilbert, à substituer à une culture guerrière une culture de tendresse, à jeter  des ponts plutôt qu'à dresser des murs. Le développement culturel trouvera en  eux des alliés naturels * c'est dire qu'il faut les associer à notre action.  Peut-être nous aideront-i;s à reconquérir ceux qui sont en voie de robotisation ?
12.24 L'humanité progresse avec des heurts, des hésitations et des reculs. Il  nous reste bien des défis à relever, bien des maux à extirper de notre terre des  hommes : la malnutrition, les maladies qui tuent ou qui mutilent, les bidonvilles  et les habitants des trottoirs des mégapoles déshumanisées, les enfants battus
505    et la prostitution des jeunes aux yeux ternis, la dépendance des drogues et de  l'alcool, tous les racismes et toutes les intolérances, les hommes et les femmes  qui, aux quatre coins du monde, sont toujours asservis, exploités, humiliés . . .  et aussi les massacres de notre environnement.
12.25 Ce n'est jamais fini, jamais gagné, mais il nous faut garder l'espoir,  avoir l'optimisme de la volonté, vouloir longtemps et ne pas changer de direc-  tion. En sachant que 1'Unesco rassemble les peuples du monde pour donner à tous,  hommes, femmes et enfants, le premier des droits, celui de vivre debout dans la  dignité et dans la liberté. Et le premier des espoirs, celui de vivre heureux  dans un monde pacifique et fraternel. Je vous remercie.  (M. Riesle Contreras, Chili, prend la présidence)
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank H.E. Mr V. Feaux, and now invite H.E. Dr Salem Baselm, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Democratic Yemen, to take the floor.
(14.1) Mr BASELM (Democratic Yemen) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of Unesco,  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished heads and members of delegations,  ladies and gentlemen, good morning. 1 wish to offer to Mr Anwar Ibrahim the warm  congratulations of my country, Democratic Yemen, on his election as President of the  twenty-fifth session of our General Conference, which is being held in this historic  and venerable city of Paris, a city of beauty, light and culture. 1 should also like  to greet, through you, his distinguished deputies and those elected to chair the  Conference’s commissions and committees and to pay tribute to his predecessor,  Mr Putzeys Alvarez, President of the previous session of the General Conference. 1  also wish to thank the Director-General of the Organization, the Chairman and  members of the Executive Board and the entire Secretariat for their sterling work in  preparing the Conference documents, particularly the third Medium-Term Plan and the  Programme and Budget, and for organizing the General Conference SO efficiently. 1  firmly trust and hope that our Conference Will be a success.
(14.2) Mr President, 1 am delighted to be addressing you and my fellow delegates  in this international forum in my own Arabie language, which 1 should like to see  used more widely, dlongside the other languages, in a11 the Organization’s  activities.
(14.3) It is my country’s earnest desire, as a participant in this great  Conference, that the twenty-fifth session should generate greater confidence and  mutual understanding between peoples, thus faithfully complying with the  Organization’s aims and principles as stated in the preamble to its Constitution:  ‘Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences  of peace must be constructed’.
(14.4) Mr President, it is fortunate that this Conference is taking place in an  atmosphere of optimism and trust and in an international climate in which  understanding, détente and rapprochement prevail between the nations of the world. 1  refer in particular to the positive turn of events that has taken us further along  the road towards peace and has helped to avert the danger of war. However, there are  still a number of trouble spots in the Middle East, southern Africa, Latin America  and Asia, and there is an ever-widening gap between the rich countries and the  developing nations, between the so-called North and South.
(14.5) Mr President, the debt burden of the developing countries is increasing day  by day at an alarming pace, with severely destabilizing consequences. Their balance  of payments is in constant and increasing deficit and the problem is compounded by  inadequate use of modern technology and up-to-date techniques. As a developing  nation ourselves, we have the right to make a general appeal for greater
14  co-operation and friendlier relations in order to narrow this gap by creating the  conditions for peace, equality and justice. 1 cari only reiterate what the  Director-General said in his opening address: In order to consolidate peace, we must  believe in equality.
(14.6) Mr President, the eyes of the world are on Unesco today, on this great  gathering of scholars, intellectuals, politicians and diplomats engaged in the task  of forging a better world, the radiant world of the future for which every one of us  is yearning . As Unesco continues to put in place the building blocks of peace and  friendship, it is simply fulfilling its humanitarian duty and putting into practice  the aims and ideals to which it has aspired since its foundation in 1945.
(14.7) Mr President, in a few days time the world Will celebrate the fortieth  anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at a time when such rights  continue to be violated by many States. 1 refer in particular to the oppressive and  tyrannical acts perpetrated by Israel in the occupied Arab territories in Palestine.
(14.8) Mr President, we affirm from this international forum our solidarity with  the Palestinian people in their legitimate uprising on behalf of their legal rights  and the establishment of an independent State on their national soil. 1 should like  to commend the positive attitude of the Executive Board, the General Conference and  the Director-General to the question of whether the application of the State of  Palestine should be considered at the next session. We hope that the State of  Palestine Will acquire full membership in the very near future. We also appreciate  Unesco’s continuing role in protecting and preserving the holy places, particularly  Jerusalem, and in ensur ing the survival of Palestinian cultural identity and  continuity of education in the occupied territories.
(14.9) Mr President, my country condemns the racist and inhumane policies being  pursued in South Africa. We also greatly appreciate the role that Unesco has played  over the years in safeguarding human rights through its faithful and tireless action  to alleviate sufferings of this kind.
(14.10) Mr President, with regard to the third Medium-Term Plan and the Draft  Programme and Budget, the concentration and rationalization of expenditure and the  careful preparation that went into the two documents are clearly discernible. Allow  me to pay tribute to a11 those who contributed to their clear an3 concise drafting  and publication, and in particular to the Director-General for his persona1  supervision of the process. The Organization’s current approach represents a  response to repeated requests by Member States for a reduction in the volume of  non-essential documents and for an end to verbosity and repetition.
(14.11) The bilateral co-operation relationship between our country and Unesco  covers many areas, foremost among them being ‘Education and the Future’ and the  mobilizing project. As you know, my country, despite its scarce resources, provides  free public education to a11 sectors of society. A large number of schools have been  opened in both urban and rural areas and the number of students enrolled in public  education in the academic year 1988/1989 was 367,000, compared with only 65,000 on  the eve of independence in 1967. My country is currently engaged in a major overhaul  and all-round modernization of education and training, focusing on the following  activities: firstly, the development of teachers’ skills through in-service training  programmes and action to achieve a degree of self-sufficiency in teaching personnel  at the basic and secondary levels of public education in order to accomplish the  fundamental and overriding task of ensuring the all-round development of our  country. Our second priority is the preparation of an integrated literacy and adult  education programme, with provision for post-literacy activities as the basis for  continuous education. We thus hope to check illiteracy at its source and to prevent  relapse into illiteracy, bearing in mind the United Nations General Assembly’s  proclamation of 1990 as International Literacy Year. Unesco has been assigned a  leading role by the General Assembly in helping to achieve the highminded objectives  set for the Year, which Will perhaps coincide with Unesco’s regional activities  through the ARABYUBIL programme currently being implemented in the Arab region. My  country i.ntends to play an active and effective role in this field alongside its  fellow Arab countries. A third priority is the introduction of a comprehensive  system of training in educational administration, providing administrative personnel  with modern skills and modernizing and updat ing the curricula used in  teacher-training colleges. We are also setting up and developing a new examination  system and are endeavouring to make use of modern technology in public education in  order to ensure that the education system serves the needs of scientific and  technological progress.
(14.12) Still on the subject of training, the twentieth anniversary of my country’s  co-operation with Unesco and the United Nations Development Programme coincides with  the establishment of a higher teacher-training college, which Will be the  corner-stone of higher education. But in spite of a11 these achievements, we are  still facing difficulties in a number of areas owing to a shortage of resources and  this has an adverse impact on our plans for a comprehensive review of curricula and
509    for the rewriting of school-books to bring them into line with the demands of  progress and modernization. We are also finding it difficult to run post-literacy  programmes and activities, which require more substantial funding.
(14.13) In the natural sciences, we commend the vital role that Unesco is playing  in the field of marine science and water resources by helping to train professionals  through the setting up of a marine science centre. With regard to the environment  and pollution control, my country's very active Council is making its own modest  contribution and has taken many practical and legal measures to safeguard the  environment. It also participated actively in Arab Environment Day on 16 October
(14.14) My country, Mr President, is currently concerning itself with the matter of  historical manuscripts and literary works. It has recently embarked on a joint  project with our kinsfolk in the northern part of Yemen to organize an intensive  manuscript collection campaign. We hope that Unesco Will offer us its invaluable  support in this area.
(14.15) Unesco’s international campaign for the safeguarding of the city of Shibam  and the valley of Wadi Hadramaut is a basic priority in our continuous endeavour to  preserve our ancient monuments and cultural heritage, which form part of the shared  civilization of humankind. In spite of its limited resources, the government is  sparing no effort in this area, which is still, however, heavily dependent on  Unesco's attention and support. With regard to the preservation of cultural  identity, we are preparing to play our part in the activities scheduled for the  World Decade for Cultural Development and the ARABYUBIL programme. We reiterate our  standing request to Unesco to take the lead in ensuring the survival of that part of  the heritage that is in danger of destruction in Jerusalem and elsewhere.
(14.16) Mr President, 1 should not like to conclude without commending the support  and assistance provided by Unesco and its Regional Offices. 1 also wish to pay  tribute to a11 the Arab and international organizations that have contributed to our  country’s integrated development in the fields of education, culture and science.  Lastly, 1 wish to express my gratitude to Unesco and the other regional and  international organizations that came to my country’s assistance in order to repair  the damage caused by rains and flooding at the beginning of the year. Thank you.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank H.E. Dr Salem Baselm. 1 now invite H.E. MS Fausta Morganti,  delegate for education and culture and head of the delegation of the Republic of San  Marino, to take the floor.
16.1 Mme MORGANTI (Saint-Marin) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mon-  sieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, l'appel du Direc-  teur général, à l'occasion de l'ouverture de cette vingt-cinquième session de la  Conférence générale, à bâtir une ère de paix en oeuvrant pour l'élimination des  inégalités dans l'accès à la connaissance, donne un sens très précis à notre  débat auquel la délégation de Saint-Marin veut tenter d'apporter sa contribution.
16.2 Nous sommes convaincus qu'aujourd'hui, il est plus que jamais fonda-  mental d'unir nos efforts pour agir concrètement en faveur de la réalisation de  cet objectif. Nous voyons de nos jours s'intensifier la crise des ordres écono-  miques et politiques qui ont régné jusqu'alors. Nous voyons se développer les  systèmes qui ont amené un tiers de l'humanité à des niveaux de bien-être suffi-  sant, mais ont laissé les deux autres tiers souffrir encore de l'analphabétisme  et de la faim.
16.3 L'appel qui nous a été lancé et qui souligne que la paix aujourd'hui  n'est plus seulement une question de cessation des conflits entre les nations,  mais un impératif si l'on veut combler le fossé entre la prospérité d'une mino-  rité de l'humanité et la pauvreté du plus grand nombre, doit trouver dans cette  assemblée un réel écho. Il s'agit d'une paix que 1'Unesco peut contribuer à bâtir  - c'est là le thème de notre conférence -  lités entre les êtres humains quant  en éliminant les écarts et les inéga-  à leurs possibilités d'expression, leur  dignité et leur possibilité de participer aux choix qui intéressent toute la  planète, dès lors que l'on a pris conscience que les ressources de la planète ne  sont pas infinies et que notre confiance dans le progrès de la science doit être  tempérée par une réflexion approfondie sur la capacité de l'homme à continuer à  les exploiter aveuglément.
16.4 On s'est bercé jusqu'à nos jours de l'idée que la sauvegarde de l'iden-  tité culturelle des pays les plus défavorisés était un problème qui les concer-  nait seuls, et qu'en la matière, la responsabilité des pays industrialisés, qui  possèdent des ressources économiques et des richesses infiniment supérieures,  était d'ordre uniquement moral. Or il s'agit, à notre avis, d'un impératif de  justice humaine qui doit se baser aujourd'hui sur la conscience que les tradi-  tions et les cultures des pays africains et asiatiques constituent avec la  culture et la tradition des pays industrialisés un patrimoine commun, dont tous  les éléments doivent être également sauvegardés et pouvoir s'exprimer.
16.5 Le développement économique de l'Occident est la conséquence d'un choix  particulier de pensée, qui depuis la révolution industrielle n'a cessé de rétré-  cir sa portée pour se concentrer autour de la science et de la technique, un  choix qui a donné, et donne encore, des résultats positifs. Mais il s'agit d'un  choix partiel, qui a fait perdre le bénéfice de potentialités humaines restées  inexploitées ; un choix qui fait entrevoir aussi, pour l'avenir, de très graves  dangers pour la survie de l'humanité. Plus que jamais, aujourd'hui la mémoire  historique et métahistorique de toutes les populations doit donner un sens spé-  cifique à la recherche et à la science. La connaissance, la dialectique entre  les différentes cultures peuvent engendrer un développement des valeurs univer-  sellement reconnues et la création des richesses dont nous avons tous besoin.
16.6 Dans ce contexte, nous ne pouvons ignorer ce qui se passe dans le monde  au niveau des Etats, surtout, aujourd'hui, parmi ceux qui sont proches de nos  frontières et dont la volonté de liberté constitue un nouvel espoir. Le change-  ment qui est en train de se produire dans certains pays, ne peut pas nous laisser  indifférents. La volonté de ces peuples de se sentir eux aussi partie du proces-  sus d'intégration européenne est pour tous les Européens une garantie que l'idée  d'Europe peut devenir une certitude - une Europe qui sache instaurer un véritable  dialogue avec les pays du Sud en oeuvrant pour une coopération efficace et  capable de faire progresser le développement de façon équilibrée.
16.7 L'éducation, la science, la culture peuvent en la matière constituer un  domaine de recherche tout à fait approprié. Il suffit de considérer que leur  développement doit servir au progrès commun. L'éducation, puisqu'on a enfin  démontré que c'est un domaine d'analyse, pose la question fondamentale de l‘égale  dignité de tous les hommes, qui débouche sur le droit à la connaissance et le  droit de chacun à participer à travers sa propre individualité aux choix communs.  La science pose de manière de plus en plus pressante le problème complexe de ses  orientations, de son utilisation et de l'exploitation de ses potentialités et de  ses ressources et demande aujourd'hui une profonde réflexion sur le chemin par-  couru et à atteindre. A ce propos, je dois dire que pour nous, par exemple, la  biologie qui fait l'objet d'une attention spéciale dans le cadre du Plan à moyen  terme est véritablement une science d'avenir. Quant à la culture, son poids dans  nos sytèmes industrialisés, croît au même rythme que les modèles de développement  et les changements nécessaires pour les produire.
16.8 Il s'agit donc de mettre en oeuvre les forces vives de l'éducation, de  la science et de la culture, non pas pour produire des écarts, ou pour continuer  à dilapider les ressources communes, mais pour créer de nouvelles conditions de  vie.
16.9 La base de nos efforts se trouve ici. Ce que nous sommes en train de  créer dans nos pays respectifs ne peut pas être déterminé par des choix effectués  dans l'étroite vision de nos propres frontières d'Etats et de continents. Le sens  que nous devons donner à la coopération internationale est qu'il faut prendre  des risques et nos responsabilités pour que s'instaure un développement harmo-  nieux de l'humanité tout entière.
16.10 Dans notre monde développé, cette vision pose directement le problème  de la technique. Celle-ci a un pouvoir qu'elle tire du choix qu'elle fait des  découvertes scientifiques qui l'intéressent afin de les mettre en oeuvre et d'en  tirer profit. En général, dans le monde développé, la technique choisit les  découvertes scientifiques de nature à créer développement et profit, un profit  qui est, à son tour, étudié et rationalisé, dans tous ses aspects, par la science  économique.
16.11 Toutes les sciences, pas seulement la science économique, ont la pré-  tention de fournir une vision du monde, une vision qui selon elles et parce  qu'elle est scientifique serait la vision la plus complète et la plus profonde  du réel. Or, après des siècles d'un savoir où primait la vision scientifique, il  demeure beaucoup de mondes séparés, entre lesquels il n'existe pas de communica-  tion de qualité acceptable. Les facettes de la science seraient complètement  séparées si l'homme n'avait pas une tendance naturelle à les regrouper. Cela  dit, même si une vision d'ensemble était possible, grâce à la coordination de  toutes les sciences, celle-ci ne serait pas exhaustive, ne serait-ce qu'à cause
511    des structures de l'institution scientifique moderne. Je ne dis pas cela pour  diminuer l'importance et le prestige de la science moderne, mais parce que  l'attitude d'approbation passive des hommes et des institutions vis-à-vis de la  science empêche d'en voir les limites. La science, de son côté, dans les formu-  lations rigides de chacune de ses disciplines séparés, ne veut pas mettre en  doute son hégémonie et veut continuer à donner l'illusion qu'un jour, elle pour-  rait offrir une vision unitaire et exhaustive du monde.
16.12 Ainsi, beaucoup de questions surgissent : comment peut-on transformer  la méfiance mutuelle en coopération positive ? Comment faire face à la masse  grandissante d'informations qui étouffent de plus en plus la possibilité de  penser d'un individu normal ? Ou mieux encore, comment commencer à prendre  conscience, officiellement et sans infériorité, du caractère limité de la  science ? Il faudrait inclure dans nos orientations extrêmement générales, sans  prétendre les organiser immédiatement en programmes, mais les ayant toujours à  l'esprit, un espace offrant aux futurs citoyens une éducation de la pensée, de  la réflexion générale, de la disponibilité.
16.13 Dans cette perspective, il faudrait faire revivre une autre attitude de  l'esprit humain : l'attitude éthique. La construction de sociétés nationales et  internationales qui garantissent la liberté de la personne humaine et la possi-  bilité d'utiliser les biens matériels et spirituels existants, n'est pas une  tâche que nous pouvons laisser à la science * c'est au contraire une tâche qui  implique pour son accomplissement l'affirmation de valeurs humaines prioritaires,  de valeurs de base. Un impact, donc, tout à fait culturel et de réflexion cultu-  relle, qui doit guider nos pas.
16.14 Cette base théorique que nous pourrions donner à nos réalisations nous  amène à évoquer encore une fois la nécessité du respect absolu de nos identités  culturelles. Ce n'est plus l'affirmation d'un droit indiscutable, mais la néces-  sité que le renforcement des différentes cultures, leur libre expression soient  la base sur laquelle faire reposer nos actions. Le problème, dans nos sociétés  avancées est de faire de la culture un projet politique. C'est pour ces raisons  qu'il nous paraît essentiel d'affecter les ressources voulues aux activités  concernant ces questions dans le Plan à moyen terme de 1'Unesco. Cet instrument  permet de mettre en évidence les aspects qui demandent des efforts et des enga-  gements pour la défense de ce patrimoine commun que sont les patrimoines cultu-  rels et linguistiques et l'environnement des différents Etats. Un tel Projet  identifiant les objectifs à atteindre et les ressources à affecter à ces tâches  peut faire naître de nouvelles sensibilités et aider à amener à un tournant le  dialogue de paix entre les Etats. A notre avis, c'est à partir de là qu'a débuté  la sensibilisation à une nouvelle solidarité entre les peuples, pour éliminer  les barrières et les conflits, entamer le dialogue et se mettre à l'écoute des  autres.
16.15 Je crois que nous tous, nos Etats, nos gouvernements, devons être  reconnaissants à cet égard à 1'Unesco pour le travail accompli. C'est grâce à la  médiation de 1'Unesco que de petits et de grands Etats à la recherche de leur  identité et de leur dignité ont été écoutés. L'autodétermination des peuples et  le droit à une patrie, conceptions que 1'Unesco a contribué à répandre et à  défendre en sensibilisant à cet égard Etats, gouvernements et organismes inter-  nationaux, sont désormais devenus au niveau mondial, des principes inaliénables.  La lutte de tout peuple pour la recherche d'une identité et d'une patrie nous a  toujours trouvé disponibles et prêts ; nous ne saurions aujourd'hui renoncer à  en partager les aspirations les plus profondes, mais ce qu'il faut maintenant,  c'est passer de l'affirmation des principes à des projets concrets, base de nos  actions futures pour une nouvelle solidarité.
16.16 Un très grand nombre de petits Etats viennent se joindre à notre assem-  blée. Pour ces Etats, comme pour notre petite République, il n'y a pas de moyen  plus efficace de participer aux grandes transformations de notre époque contem-  poraine que de se joindre à la réflexion sur les interrogations de notre his-  toire. Dans un monde où les médias et le développement de la technique conduisent  toujours plus à l'homogénéisation du savoir, la défense de nos autonomies spéci-  fiques coïncide plus que jamais avec une prise de conscience de notre identité  culturelle. Cela nous donne aussi à réfléchir sur la mise en oeuvre d'une coopé-  ration spécifique à cet égard.
16.17 Pour que les structures institutionnelles, économiques, sociales de nos  Etats puissent dialoguer entre elles et celles-ci dialoguer avec des entités plus  vastes, il faudrait surtout, à notre avis, que puisse s'instaurer une compéhen-  sion au plus haut niveau. Nous devons donc maintenir tous nos engagements sur le  plan de la culture, en insistant dans ce domaine et dans celui de l'éducation  Sur tout ce qui est nécessaire à l'élévation de la dignité de nos citoyens. C'est  pourquoi nous avons voulu créer à Saint-Marin, une université. Vu nos limites  territoriales et notre population, on pouvait croire que c'était là un projet
14  qui nous dépassait. Mais nous avons fait ce choix parce que nous avions la  conviction que dans l'Europe unie, nous devions privilégier un projet de défense  culturelle plutôt que des projets économiquement plus intéressants.
16.18 L'autonomie, l'autodétermination des grands et des petits Etats est, à  l'époque actuelle, et sera encore plus dans le futur, une question de capacité  de la pensée humaine à dépasser les frontières. Nous sommes convaincus que le  destin commun ne permettra plus la construction de barrières et de murs. Dans  cette optique, l'effort de chaque Etat et de chaque peuple est nécessaire pour  que s'engage un processus de développement plus complet qui laisse place a un  besoin nouveau de solidarité, sans pour autant négliger l'homme.
16.19 Le défi, donc, qui nous a été lancé à l'ouverture de cette conférence  n'est plus l'utopie qui pouvait, ailleurs, agiter des fantômes insaisissables.  C'est, de l'avis de notre délégation, la possibilité concrète de pouvoir conti-  nuer à espérer. Voilà pourquoi nous joignons notre voix à celle du Directeur  général, qui a exprimé à travers l'excellent travail accompli avec le secrétariat  non seulement un espoir mais l'émergence d'une éthique internationale. Nous joi-  gnons aussi notre voix à celle des Etats membres qui ont exprimé dans cette  assemblée la volonté de travailler ensemble a la réalisation des objectifs visés.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank H.E. MS Fausta Morganti. 1 now invite H.E. Dr Balla Keita, Minister  of Education and head of the delegation of the Republic of Côte d'ivoire, to take  the floor.
18.1 M. KEITA (Côte d'ivoire) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  ministres, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est un grand honneur  pour moi, en même temps qu'un plaisir, de conduire la délégation ivoirienne a la  vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture.
18.2 La République de Côte d'ivoire, par ma voix, se joint aux autres délé-  gations pour féliciter M. Anwar Ibrahim pour sa prometteuse élection à la prési-  dence de la Conférence générale. Elle y voit le gage certain du succès de nos  travaux tant ses éminentes qualités, son sens de la mesure et de la rigueur sont  connus et hautement appréciés. A travers sa personne, la communauté internatio-  nale rend hommage à son pays, la Malaisie, avec lequel la Côte d'ivoire s'honore  de partager l'idéal commun de justice, de solidarité, de tolérance, de compré-  hension mutuelle et de paix qu'incarne 1'Unesco.
18.3 Puisse notre session rester éclairée par les fortes lueurs d'espoir et  conduire à un apaisement total des conflits. Il est en effet réconfortant que le  dialogue et la tolérance prennent progressivement le pas sur l'incompréhension,  la haine et la violence. Cette tribune me donne l'occasion de rappeler encore un  fois ce que le Président Félix Houphouët-Boigny proclame depuis des lustres. VOUS  me permettrez de citer ce digne fils d'Afrique : "La paix s'instaure et se  maintient par le dialogue. De nos jours la guerre ne règle rien... Le dialogue  est l'arme des forts et non des faibles, l'arme de ceux qui font passer les pro-  blèmes généraux avant les problèmes particuliers".
18.4 L'Unesco, qui regroupe les nations éprises de dialogue et de paix, ne  peut que triompher. Pour ce qui nous concerne, la Côte d'ivoire demeure "l'amie  de toutes les nations et l'ennemie d'aucune". Elle honnit la haine et honore  l'amour, tout comme le veut 1'Unesco. Par le passé, dans cette même enceinte, la  délégation ivoirienne a dénoncé les quatre sentiments vils et pernicieux qui  perturbent les relations internationales : la peur, l'hypocrisie, la jalousie et  l'égoïsme. Avons-nous tous fait suffisamment d'efforts pour les combattre ?
18.5 Monsieur le Directeur général de l'unesco, je voudrais vous féliciter  pour le rôle discret mais combien efficace que joue l'Organisation dans l'ins-  tauration d'un tel climat de détente et vous transmettre les encouragements de  la Côte d'ivoire et de son guide vénéré que nombre de pays réunis dans cette  enceinte nous font l'amitié d'appeler "le Sage de l'Afrique". Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, vous ne céderez ni à la lassitude ou au découragement, ni aux cri-  tiques ou incompréhensions que pourraient susciter certaines de nos initiatives.  L'appui et les conseils avisés des Etats membres vous permettront d'affronter  les difficultés inhérentes à la noblesse de la cause dont vous êtes le défenseur
513    désigné. Soyez assuré de la disponibilité du peuple ivoirien qui n'a jamais  failli à son engagement de servir la paix et la compréhension mutuelle, ainsi  que vous-même avez pu le constater pour nous avoir, par deux fois, fait l'amitié  de nous rendre visite. Monsieur le Directeur général, nous éprouvons de l'estime  pour votre personne et apprécions votre action.
18.6 Convaincus que l'homme reste à la fois l'acteur et la finalité de tout  développement équilibré, nous conservons foi dans les valeurs humanistes basées  sur la concorde et le consensus. Voilà pourquoi l'houphouétisme est le credo de  notre développement. Peut-on parler de paix véritable si, pour les uns, le pro-  duit de leur travail est soumis aux dures lois de la demande, alors que pour les  autres, l'offre bénéficie d'aménagements mutiples ? Est-ce un hasard si, 100 ans  après la Conférence de Berlin, le produit des ressources du tiers monde continue  à être géré par les pays du monàe industrialisé ? Qui est à même de parler  d'égalité entre le cheval et son cavalier ? Ils ne se séparent jamais, mais l'un  est toujours sur le dos de l'autre.
18.7 De même, peut-on parler de paix véritable quand subsistent et perdurent  pour une frange importante d'hommes, de femmes et d'enfants non seulement l'igno-  rance, l'analphabétisme, la pauvreté, la famine, la maladie, mais aussi les pré-  jugés, l'intolérance, le racisme et l'apartheid, autant de défis à la conscience  de l'humanité ? Ce n'est que dans l'union de tous les peuples épris de justice et  de liberté, conscients des enjeux de la civilisation planétaire du XXIe siècle,  que s'accompliront nos grands idéaux. Puissent toutes les nations participer à  leur réalisation ! Alors seulement nous parviendrons à l'universalité.
18.8 Dans cette perspective, mon pays a accueilli, à la Fondation internatio-  nale Houphouët-Boigny pour la recherche de la paix à Yamoussoukro, l'un des  grands congrès de 1'Unesco. Ce modeste village situé au coeur de l'Afrique est  ainsi associé à jamais à l'action de l'unesco en faveur de la paix dans le monde.  Mon pays lui en est très reconnaissant. La Côte d'ivoire ne ménagera aucun effort  pour apporter, afin d'assurer le suivi de cette importante rencontre, le concours  de toute sa population et en particulier des intellectuels chargés en premier  lieu de servir la culture et le savoir grâce auxquels l'humanité prépare un ave-  nir plus radieux. Ne revient-il pas au continent africain, berceau de l'humanité  et terroir de sagesse consensuelle, de jouer un rôle phare dans cette recherche  de la paix dont, paradoxalement, il continue d'être privé du fait des violences  et des injustices ?
18.9 Ne nous y trompons pas, si aucun remède n'est trouvé, l'aube du troi-  sième millénaire retentira du fracas des batailles auxquelles auront mené les  frustrations légitimes, l'ignorance et la négation des aspirations les plus pro-  fondes. Il faut éviter à tout prix pour les générations montantes, d'un côté,  l'accumulation de frustrations incompréhensibles et insupportables et, de  l'autre, l'accentuation de l'opulence, le fossé grandissant entre les pauvres et  les nantis.
18.10 Il est heureux et réconfortant de constater que notre commune Organisa-  tion entreprend dès maintenant de relever tous ces défis. C'est pourquoi ma délé-  gation voudrait réaffirmer son soutien total et entier à 1'Unesco et à l'ensemble  des programmes qui nous sont soumis, et qui visent en définitive, non seulement  à "élever les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes", mais aussi et sur-  tout à faire en sorte que cette paix soit "établie" sur le fondement de la soli-  darité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité".
18.11 Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez écouté nos chefs d'Etat, nous  vous en remercions.
18.12 Monsieur le Président, pour en venir aux champs majeurs de programme sur  lesquels notre Assemblée est appelée à se prononcer, la Côte d'ivoire demeure  bien consciente des difficultés qu'il y a à élaborer une stratégie globale dont  les éléments constitutifs complémentaires doivent aboutir à la synergie des  efforts, tout en éliminant les redondances et les lourdeurs préjudiciables à  l'efficience des actions. Pour cette raison, ma délégation apprécie que l'on ait  amélioré la lisibilité du Projet de plan à moyen terme et du Projet de programme  et de budget pour 1990-1991 dont elle accepte les contenus pertinents, qui  tiennent compte à la fois de la diversité des problèmes et de l'interdépendance  des solutions à leur apporter.
18.13 Dans cette perspective, la Côte d'ivoire rappelle que, depuis l'indépen-  dance, le Président Félix Houphouët-Boigny a fait de l'éducation la priorité des  priorités, l'option première du développement de la nation ivoirienne. Il est  heureux que 30 ans après, ce choix soit devenu une nécessité aux yeux de la  communauté francophone et internationale.
18.14 Passé de 8 % en 1960 à 70 % en 1989, le taux de scolarisation indique  clairement le bond qualitatif et quantitatif qu'a connu le système éducation/  formation ivoirien depuis que les pionniers de notre parti d'avant-garde, le  PDCI-RDA, ont reconquis notre liberté confisquée et retrouvé notre dignité autre-  fois bafouée. Cet élan prodigieux et qénéreux, dans un secteur qui absorbe 43 %  du budget de fonctionnement de la nation se trouve aujourd'hui bloqué par une  crise implacable, indépendante de notre volonté.
18.15 De par son histoire, mon pays a hérité d'un systi:rrw bducntif linbairc:  auquel des aménagements successifs essaient de rcmkdicr. Toutefois, il n'en sub-  siste pas moins des goulets d'étranglement et des déperditions, qu'avec la corn-  préhension de la communauté internationale nous aimerions voir disparaître pour  parvenir à une meilleure justice sociale, et protéger notre capital le plus pré-  cieux : la jeunesse ivoirienne, objet de toutes les sollicitudes de notre parti  et de notre gouvernement. Face aux demandes croissantes de la société, que la  généralisation de l'enseignement de base rend plus pressante, la Côte d'ivoire  se trouve privée des ressources financières indispensables à l'élargissement, à  la diversification et à la multiplication de ses structures cducatives, au niveau  du primaire, du secondaire, du supérieur, de la recherche scienCifique comme tic:  l'erlseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle ainsi qu'elle l'avait  prévu et planifié. Tout ce qui se fait dans ce secteur est fait pour l'ensemble  du continent. Notre université compte actuellement plus de 70 nationalités, car  notre guide vénérk Félix Houphouët-Boigny ne veut pas que la Côte d'ivoire soit  une oasis de bonheur dans un désert de misère. La solidarité fraternelle demeure  le ciment de la politique du Président du RDA.
18.16 La chute brutale, d'un montant annuel de 600 milliards de francs CFA,  des recettes d'exportation de nos matières premières - café et cacao, deux  piliers de notre agriculture - explique la situation actuelle qui nous est impo-  sée de l'extérieur par les spéculateurs. Même si nous partageons ce sort avec  bien d'autres pays victimes de la spoliation, de la non-rétribution de leurs  produits et de la détérioration des termes de l'échange, les larmes n'en sont  pas moins amères.
18.17 Afin de remédier au plus vite à une aussi désastreuse situation, les  enseignants doivent devenir de véritables éducateurs et former des cadres compé-  tents! capables de transformer sur place et de mettre en valeur nos matières  premieres d'origine minière ou agricole. Par ce biais, il ne s'agit pas seulement  de parvenir à diminuer la dette extérieure, mais il s'agit surtout d'éviter un  nouvel asservissement dû aux écarts technologiques. Au total, il convient de  remplacer la confrontation actuelle par la coopération en matière de formation,  afin de transformer les structures mentales. Aussi, nous paraît-il judicieux de  placer le progrès sous le signe d'une capacité scientifique et technologique  accrue, dans le plus grand respect de l'environnement et de l'amitié entre les  peuples.
18.18 Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables délkgués, n'est-ce pas le lieu de VOUS  rappeler, ainsi qu'à tous les observateurs ici présents, que la premii:re condi-  tion du développement de l'éducation et de la valorisation des ressources  humaines, consiste à mes yeux, en une redynamisation des investissements dans ce  secteur ? La solidarité internationale doit y concourir dans le respect mutuel  des intérêts en présence. C'est à ce prix que nous parviendrons à la mise en  oeuvre de nouvelles filières de formation pour une promotion des ressources  humaines. Encore faut-il réussir à contourner un protectionnisme larvé en matière  de formation et de stages qui semble se faire jour dans les pays nantis. Par  ailleurs, les idées reçues sur la nature et la quantité des besoins en formation  des pays en développement continuent à entraver les efforts réels de solidarité  en provenance des pays développés.
18.19 Mesdames et Messieurs, comment la Côte d'ivoire pourrait-elle ne Pas  souscrire au programme concernant la culture, alors que nous sommes en pleine  Décennie mondiale du développement culturel et que se tient, non loin d'ici, au  Grand Palais, une exposition sur l'art ivoirien que je voudrais vous inviter 2  visiter. Elle nous permet de mieux connaître le passé, afin de mieux comprendre  le présent et de mieux cerner l'avenir.
18.20 Ainsi, la prise en compte de la dimension culturelle dans le processus  de développement en permet une meilleure approche. Avoir les pieds dans la tra-  dition et la tête dans la modernité et l'ouverture est pour nous le gage d'un  équilibre harmonieux, en même temps que l'occasion d'un enrichissement qui  reconnaît les différences et, partant, valorise l'homme.
18.21 L'exécution correcte des programmes qui nous sont proposés et auxquels  nous souscrivons, requiert des moyens conséquents. La Côte d'lvoire souhaite que
1'Unesco parvienne à mobiliser les ressources nécessaires à la réalisation de  cet ambitieux projet. La lutte pour le développement est un combat global qui
515  _____ . .--- -- -.    nécessite une présence constante et persévérante sur tous les fronts. L'Unesco  doit prendre sa part, toute sa part, dans ses domaines de compétence. Il y va de  la dignité de toutes ces femmes, de tous ces hommes et de tous ces enfants qui  croient en notre Organisation et lui font confiance. Nous n'avons pas le droit  de rendre vaines leurs espérances.
18.22 Honorables délégués, en ce qui concerne les programmes de 1'Unesco sou-  mis à notre appréciation, permettez-moi de vous livr-er quelques réflexions en  attendant l'analyse plus détaillée qu'en fera ma délégation dans les commissions  appropriées.
18.23 Premièrement, nous apprécions au plus haut point l'hommage rendu par  les différentes délégations et 1'Unesco au Sage de l'Afrique, notre Président  vénéré Félix Houphouët-Boigny, par la création d'un prix Félix Houphouët-Boigny  de la recherche sur la paix. Nous remercions ici le Directeur général, Federico  Mayor, le Conseil exécutif et toutes les délégations pour leur délicate atten-  tion à l'endroit d'un grand visionnaire, M. Félix Houphouët-Boigny, qui a consa-  cré sa vie à la paix, à la concorde, au dialogue et à la solidarité des peuples  sur cette petite planète appelée "terre des hommes".
18.24 Deuxièmement, nous approuvons le plan "Priorité Afrique" du Directeur  général et souhaitons que lui soient accordés tous les moyens - politiques,  psychologiques, moraux, matériels et financiers - pour la mise en application  immédiate de ce plan, qui donne à l'Afrique une chance indéniable d'épanouisse-  ment dans le concert des nations et des peuples, en cette fin de XXe siècle où  l'égoïsme tend à étouffer la justice sociale dans les échanges internationaux au  détriment de l'Afrique. Il s'agit maintenant de faire moins mais mieux, pour  paraphraser Federico Mayor l'Africain, notre Directeur général, dont l'humanisme  n'est plus à démontrer et auquel nous devons faire confiance pour étudier et  mettre en application nos priorités, en tenant compte de nos spécificités de  pays en émergence, et ce dans tous les secteurs, en particulier celui de la com-  munication, de l'informatique, de la science et de la technologie maîtrisées par  l'homme et au service de l'homme, sans distinction de race, de culture et de  religion.
18.25 Troisièmement, dans le domaine de la communication, il faut éviter tout  malentendu et les choses doivent être très claires pour les uns et les autres.
11 s'agit d'assurer la libre circulation de l'information dans tous les domaines  et d'accentuer la réduction des disparités tant au niveau des individus qu'entre  les nations animées de bonne volonté, ainsi qu'il est indiqué dans l'Acte cons-  titutif de notre Organisation.
18.26 Quatrièmement, dans leur ensemble, nos pays reconnaissent aujourd'hui  la priorité à accorder à l'éducation et à la formation de tous les citoyens de  nos Etats respectifs. Mais si nous voulons avoir un développement harmonieux de  nos nations, il nous apparaît souhaitable que soit prise plus explicitement en  compte l'éducation des handicapés, des non-voyants et de tous ceux que la nature  n'a pas favorisés dans nos différentes sociétés. C'est le rôle moral et intel-  lectuel de 1'Unesco dans l'accomplissement total de sa tâche qui doit être mis  en exergue dans le sens de la justice sociale à l'intérieur de nos Etats comme  entre nos Etats.
18.27 Cinquièmement, l'Unesc0, réalisant la paix à l'intérieur de ses struc-  tures, entre ses structures et le reste des institutions spécialisées du système  des Nations Unies tout comme dans ses rapports avec tous les Etats dans sa quête  de l'universalité, devrait pouvoir bénéficier, de la part de chacun individuel-  lement et de tous, collectivement, de tous les moyens nécessaires à la concréti-  sation de ses nobles ambitions.
18.28 Vive 1'Unesco ! Vive la coopération internationale ! Vive le dialogue,  la solidarité agissante et la fraternité vraie qui conduisent à la paix véri--  table ! Au nom du Président Houphouët-Boigny, de notre parti, de notre gouver-  nement et de notre peuple, je vous remercie de votre compréhension.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank H.E. Dr Balla Keita. 1 now give the floor to H.E. Dr Carlos Pérez  del Castillo, Ambassador and Permanent Secretary of the Latin American Economie  System (SELA).
(20.1) Mr PERE2 DEL CASTILLO (Latin American Economie System - SELA) (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General of Unesco, distinguished ministers and  representatives of Member States, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of a11 to  express my pleasure in making my first visit to this House, as Permanent Secretary  of SELA, and also to express my gratitude to the Director-General of Unesco, my good  friend Federico Mayor, for his gracious invitation to me to address this Conference.
(20.2) As a backdrop to my presence here, 1 should like to recall that in July
1988 we were gratified to receive a visit from the Director-General at SELA  Headquarters in Caracas. On that occasion we jointly signed a co-operation agreement  between Unesco and SELA, which serves as a framework for the activities our two  Organizations have been implementing in our shared fields of competence, in  accordance with our respective mandates and work programmes. 1 think 1 may say that,  since the signing of this agreement, it has already yielded encouraging results  which have been reinforced in the course of this year by decisions adopted both by  the United Nations General Assembly and by the Latin American Council regarding the  need for even stronger co-operation between SELA and the United Nations and its  Specialized Agencies, including Unesco.
(20.3) Mr President, 1 am sure that the distinguished ministers who have spoken  before me during this past week and a half have described with great accuracy and  depth of understanding the extremely serious situation afflicting our region for the  eighth consecutive year, SO that 1 need not go too deeply into this matter. 1 Will  say only that the already dire moments through which we lived in 1988 have been  compounded in these first ten months of 1989 by a series of factors which further  exacerbate the situation, namely, one of persistent recession and a downturn in our  region’s economic acivity. Now, in 1989, we shall have virtually zero growth and,  for the second consecutive year, we shall see our per capita product reduced to 1978  levels, fully justifying the claim made in our analyses that the 1980s is a lost  decade for Latin America and the Caribbean. We have also witnessed in 1989 the  universal spread and acceleration of the inflationary process. Some countries in our  region are currently on the verge of hyper-inflation. We have witnessed the  sharpening of macro-economic imbalances. Investment rates are at the lowest ever for  the decade, signing away not only the present but also the future of our peoples.  And, Mr President, even more serious is the fact that the transfer of resources from  Latin America to the industrialized countries is continuing. In the last eight years  we have transferred nearly $200 million to service our debt which, during that same  period, far from declining, increased by almost $100,000. Indeed, 1 believe that the  international community has begun to realize that the debt is unpayable as things  are now, and measures other than those we have hitherto adopted to find a solution  to these problems are starting to be entertained.
(20.4) Lastly, we still have recessive adjustments that not only affect our  countries’ room for manoeuvre, but seriously aggravate the extraordinary  deterioration in our populations’ living standards as manifest in increased poverty,  increased unemployment and a drop in real wages. Al1 this implies social costs which  have already reached the threshold of tolerance for many countries and have led  others to widespread outbursts of violence of which you are a11 only too aware.
(20.5) 1 therefore think that if there is one thing to be said about this entire  scenario, it is that the advances linked to the strengthening of world peace and  constructive dialogue between the great powers at the political level that we have  witnessed in recent years have certainly not been matched by a concerted effort to  build a more just and equitable world economic system in which disputes between  countries may be minimized. Quite the contrary: the existing gap between the  industrialized and Third World countries has been widening, fed as it is by the very  dynamics of the inequi ty that governs international economic relations and  exacerbated at the same time by the profound changes wrought in such relations by  the vast transformations taking place in science and technology. Hence, the question  of Latin America’s participation in the international division of labour and  knowledge is coming strongly to the fore once again. And in this last decade, Latin  America and the Caribbean have not ceased to acquire weight and influence in  international economic affairs.
(20.6) Our region’s share in the world economy is smaller than it should be, given  the quantity and quality of its human and natural resources; Latin America and the  Caribbean accounts for only 7 per cent of the gross world product and 6 per cent of  the world’s industrial output. Our participation in world trade fell from 6 per cent  at the beginning of the decade to a mere 3.6 per cent in 1989; a situation that  looks even worse if we consider the strategic areas of contemporary development  featuring the production of capital goods, in which the region’s participation  accounts for only 3 per cent. And looks worse than ever, Mr President, if we view it  in relation to research and development, which Will doubtless be the key to entry  into the twenty-first Century. Here we note with concern that the region of Latin  America and the Caribbean contributes only 1.8 per cent of the world total and  devotes only 7.5 per cent of its product to technological research in science and  technology.
(20.7) Faced with this prospect, we see that the dominant characteristic in  international economic relations is a widespread tendency towards bilateralism and  regionalism. The concepts of multilateralism, co-operation and international  solidarity - the corner-stones of our conception of development - have, without  doubt, suffered a serious setback, not to say an enormous reversal, in recent years.  It is only too plain that the industrialized countries, countries with much more  solid economic structures than our own, feel obliged, given the sharpening of the  international competition spurred on by technological change, to Put their  individual actions in second place, to join forces and consolidate unified economic  blocs, and to establish far-reaching preferential agreements that Will enable them  to broaden their horizons and their spheres of activity SO that they may enhance  their standing, competitiveness and participation in a rapidly changing world  economy .
(20.8) The consolidation of the integration of the European Economie Community in
1992, the agreements between the United States and Canada, Japan’s role in  South-East Asia and even the structural changes occurring in the socialist  countries - 1 see a11 these as very eloquent examples of this trend. 1 think,  Mr President , that the developed countries are sending us, the developing countries,  a very important message. It is certainly SO for Latin America where, despite the  concerted action of the industrialized countries, we are sometimes still hesitant  about what we should do. In my view, this CO-ordination among the industrialized  countries constitutes a strong cal1 for concerted action and reflection on the part  of our countries; for either we join forces and become integrated or else we run the  risk of disappearing as a politically viable project. Add to this the fundamental  obstacle to sustained development in our region: our huge foreign debt burden, which  has great1.y increased our dependence and vulnerability. The persistence of  protectionist policies, coupled with the Sharp reduction in capital flows towards  the region, has turned us into net exporters of capital to the tune of  US $13,000 million per year; and a11 this in a context of uncertainty and  instability in world economic affairs.
(20.9) Faced with this gloomy general outlook, the Permanent Secretariat of SELA  has directed its efforts towards suggesting very precise and concrete initiatives t0  our Member States, with a view to discovering approaches to the orchestration of an  economic and social development strategy that is geared to our own realities and  takes account of the following: our capacities for research, production and trade;  the need to restructure and modernize our production systems in order to keep up  with technological requirements and changes; the need to put our house in order and  to reduce our budget deficits; and, last but by no means least, the need to do  something about the serious social backwardness that has been this decade’s legacy  to us - for if nothing is done on this score it Will be difficult to consolidate  political and economic stability: indeed, this factor is crucial to the  consolidation of our democratic processes in the region. We are aware, Mr President,  that solutions are not going to corne from outside. We are also aware that there are  no magie formulae to reverse the crisis that our region is passing through. We  reognize at the same time that at least part of the solution lies in the efforts of  our own countries, and 1 think that, in this connection, recognition of the need to  act together deserves extremely high priority.
(20.10) The fundamental obstacle to the resumption of this development process is  the absence of funding in the region; this is partly due to the large-scale transfer  of resources for its debt-servicing, and it is therefore one of SELA’s priority  tasks at the moment to work at helping governments SO that we may arrive at a  lasting solution to this problem through a significant reduction in transfers of  resources away from the region. A solution to the debt problem is certainly not a  remedy for our development, but it is a vital step towards the attainment of our  other development objectives. At SELA we have prepared, for the first time in Latin  America and the Caribbean, a draft proposa1 that seeks precisely this, namely, a  solution prepared and negotiated with the creditor countries and with the  multilateral funding agencies to the problem of debt. Secondly, it is SELA’s  fundamental mission to assist governments in matters of trade. We have embarked on  the final phase of negotiations with GATT, the only body where the problems of  outlets for our products are being discussed at the multilateral level and from  which a new commercial system Will probably emerge that Will govern the flow of  trade in the future.
(20.11) As 1 said earlier, we are working on the subject of integration,  encouraging Latin American integration as a political blueprint, that is to say,  through the identification of very concrete projects and programmes among countries  of the region that are forging genuine and permanent relations of interdependence.  TO the multilateral dialogue we have established with the industrialized countries  we have added bilateral dialogues between the region and various other protagonists,  based on specific agendas reflecting the characteristics and specificities of our  relationship with those countries. Furthermore, if we wish to take our place in the  complex twenty-first Century, we have before us the task of modernizing and  redefining our industrial policies; in the long run, this must be achieved by way of
521    commitments binding on the various social agents which Will establish proper living  and working conditions for the Latin American and Caribbean peoples hardest hit by  the crisis. In this context, Mr President, the joint work of SELA and Unesco takes  on great importance. In conclusion, allow me to say a few words about these  initiatives.
(20.12) 1 think that there are at least six areas in which we cari continue working  together. We have carefully studied the Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 which IJnesco  has submitted to this Conference for examination and we find in it large areas of  shared concern which make us optimistic for the development of our common task. The  first field is that of scientific and technological development. In my view, through  the orchestration of specific projects we cari help governments to draw up policies  and guidelines in this area. The second field concerns the social aspects of  development. Here we have already started to identify alternative social policies to  the programmes of adjustment and stabilization that we have been implementing in the  region, and 1 feel that we should also work out together a series of social  indicators that Will give a homogeneous view of what has been happening in the  region in this respect. The third firld is that of intellectual property. SELA is  the forum in which Latin Americans and Caribbeans co-ordinate their positions on  this question, and 1 think that here Unesco has a substantial contribution to makr.  The fourth area concerns economic and social prospects. Here, too, we could, through  joint action, supply the various governments with foreseeable scenarios aimed at  facilitating analysis and policy-making. The fifth field is the promotion of  cultural industries that may not only be developed and propagated in Latin America  and the Caribbean, but also increase the region’s participation in the sale and  production of these goods. Last week we held a joint meeting with JJnesco at which we  identified a few formulae whereby t11e cultural dimension could be better  incorporated into our countries’ development planning. And finally, in sixth place,
1 think that technical co-operation among developing countries is an area that  readily lends itself to joint action by us. The Latin American Council has already  identified technical education as one of the branches to which we should accord a  very high priority.
(20.13) Distinguished ministers, in conclusion 1 should like to say that we cannot  close our eyes to one fact: not only governments but also the Secretariats of  international and regional organizations have an enormous challenge before them. The  crisis of the 1980s is far from over and, in many instances, is worsening. It is our  conviction that only through our own efforts, through the Co+ordination of joint  activities, through solidarity and international co-operation Will we be able to  keep afloat and achieve growth, equilibrium, stability and greater equity for the  afflicred populations of Latin America and the Caribbean. 1 think, however, that the  picture has not been wholly negative during this decade. There are very clear signs  in the region that consciences are awakening, that determination is hardening and  that new prospects for regional CO-ordination and consultation are emerging. And  this wili doubtless also have a favourabLe impact at the international level, in the  North-South dialogue and in a11 forums, including the “et-y i.mportant General  Conference of Unesco which 1 bave had great pleasure in addressing today.
(20.14) Distinguished ministers and representatives, 1 wish you every success in  your deliberations; 1 am sure that they Will represent a further step towards  clarifying the situation, pinpointing the difficulties, seeking areas of common  interest and SO helping to salve the problems facing our countries.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank Dr Carlos Pérez del Castillo. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 13 h.15  The meeting rose at 1.15 p-m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.15  %CenZtHMe XtKpbtBZteTC~ B 13.15  &JI~\,\~-Lul~-LJ+l4,  B!%!X=Fl3ti4i5~k~% -