Seizième séance plénière
26 octobre 1989, à 10 h 10  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  puis : M. BADRAN (Jordanie)  Sixteenth plenary meeting
26 October 1989 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaysia)  later: Mr BADRAN (Jordan)  Decimosexta sesion plenaria
557  . .._ ~,. ~.- . . . ..__-_-. --    DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite).  /GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued).  /DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OEXYX~EHMEBOIIPOCOBOB~EMHOJIMTHKH(HPO~O~>KEHME)  (& bWI -L+AI 'LSL
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The sixteenth plenary  meeting is called to order. 1 am sure you enjoyed the opera-ballet last night.  As we do not yet have a quorum I Will adjourn the meeting for five minutes and  we shall then proceed with our business, if there are no objections.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we have nine speakers for this  morning, and 1 first give the floor to H.E. Lit. Manuel Bartlett Diaz, Secretary  of Education and head of the delegation of Mexico.
(2.1) Mr BARTLETT DIAZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Your Excellency Mr Anwar Ibrahim, President of the twenty-fifth session of  the General Conference; Your Excellency Dr José Israel Vargas, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Your Excellency Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of Unesco,  distinguished ministers and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like to convey  to you a11 the greetings and the best wishes for the success of this twenty-fifth  General Conference of the Constitutional President of Mexico, Carlos Salinas de  Gortari, who has done me the honour of asking me to lead the delegation of my  country . On behalf of my government and on my own behalf, Mr President, 1 should  like to congratulate you on your election to chair our deliberations. Your noted  good judgement Will be a decisive factor in enabling us to achieve results which  Will, without doubt, be of fundamental importance in the history of the  Organization. Mexico congratulates the people and Governments of the Cook Islands,  Djibouti and the Republic of Kiribati on their admission to Unesco. Their  involvement in the life and work of the Organization Will enhance its already  substantial cultural resources and confirm its universality. Welcome.
(2.2) The Draft Medium-Term Plan for 1990-1995 is being submitted in very  auspicious circumstances. The last few years have witnessed the progress worldwide  of the forces fighting for peace, disarmament, human rights and the elimination of  a11 forms of discrimination. This new reality is clearly reflected in the documents  submitted for our consideration, every area, theme and programme of which has been  inspired by considerations of peace, equality between nations and the development of  our peoples. Allow me, Mr Director-General to congratulate you, your staff and the  members of the Executive Board for having, as usual, given of your best.
(2.3) On the road to development a11 countries are facing increasingly serious  social and economic challenges. Success in confronting them Will depend, to a large  extent, on education and culture, and on the assertion of a social consciousness  which is willing to participate, is well informed, and, draws its inspiration from  its own values and universal culture, from humanism, science and technology, and  strives to develop the abilities and potential of its people. In this Cultural  Decade let us repeat that education, science, technology and communication form an  integral part, with culture, of a unified and consistent development policy.
(2.4) Urban development, the growth of indus t ry and services, population  movements, the diversification of work experience, the means of social  communication, pluralism and participation are features of contemporary social life  that assign new tasks to education. The times require an educational system which  cari integrate and combine individual and universal cultural attitudes, training for  efficient, high quality work, scientific and technological advances, and a basic  human training which makes for freedom and harmony and enables people to keep pace  with rapid change in their lives. Today’s world is making us rethink the role of  education. It must enable coming generations to ensure the quality of their future  and confirm its role as a vehicle of culture which is creative and innovatory. Al1  countries have had to place on their national agenda the need for everyone to be  offered a choice of education courses, for basic education which meets the needs of  a11 citizens, for interesting and relevant subject-matter to enhance curricula, for  improvement of the academic qualifications and living conditions of teaching staff,  for the highest standards in research and training in higher education, for  continuing education to satisfy social and individual requirements, and the  participation of a11 in more intensive and better-directed educational activity. The  international community should intensify its efforts and establish new forms of  solidarity and co-operation in this area. Mexico is and has been closely associated  with Unesco’s work since its creation, even at difficult times.
(2.5) In the last ten years the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean,  inspired by the theme of ‘education for ail’, produced their educational diagnosis  and a vigorous cal1 for action in the ‘Mexico City Declaration’ of December 1979,  which was followed up at the twenty-first session of the General Conference of  Unesco in Belgrade, and at the Intergovernmental Regional Meeting on the Objectives,  Strategies and Methods of Action, convened to establish a Major Project in the Field  of Education, which met in Quito in 1981, and in Saint Lucia in 1982. The Major  Project has set for the year 2000 the objective of eradicating illiteracy, ensuring  that a11 children receive schooling with a minimum of eight to ten years’ general  education, and improving the quality of educational services. Considering that  education is a key factor in any transformation of society, that significant social  change has always brought progress in education and that any improvement in the  quality of education has opened up a new stretch on the long road to development, on
9 October the President of Mexico proposed to the nation the Programme for the  Modernization of Education. This Programme brings together the aspirations and  requirements identified by Mexicans in a wide-ranging consultation in which they  declared themselves in favour of: strengthening a national education system intended  for the people that would be imaginative, efficient and of high quality and  organized within the framework of constitutional norms; offering every Mexican,  without exception, a full course of elementary education of good quality which Will  provide a good basic training, giving special consideration to the most  underprivileged groups, where there is most wastage; containing and remedying  educational retardation, giving assistance to the most vulnerable sectors and  providing them with alternatives that will enable them to fulfil their educational  aspirations and improve their productive capacity; introducing new courses and  levels of education which are designed to meet specific needs; providing technical  and university education which is flexible, innovative and dynamic and which  responds to the requirements of national modernization; defining useful and relevant  subject-matter and efficient teaching methods adapted to learners’ needs ; closely
1 inking education to the needs of society and to the effort to solve national  problems; improving the quality of teaching, speeding up administrative procedures  and making rational use of resources in order to have an efficient, diversified  system which benefits pupils and at the same time serves the cause of democracy,  justice and development, and enjoys the widest possible support of the community. In  short, Mexican society has opted for serious, lasting and effective educational  modernization.
(2.6) President Salinas de Gortari introduced the programme designed to meet  these social requirements as follows: ‘The new educational model, the hope of the  nation, Will aim to provide everyone with primary education which is more solid and  useful ; secondary and post-secondary education which is more clearly defined and  more flexible in the options that it offers; top quality, innovatory higher  education in which a higher level of financing Will make for better organization,  and an open system of education will restore and open up new opportunities for the  most deprived among us’.
(2.7) Unesco has made its contribution to this process of modernization by  sponsoring studies and research, practical work and experiments, seminars and  conferences which have enabled Mexican educators to keep abreast of new thinking and  to learn from the experience and achievements of other peoples. We learnt most from  programmes with ambitious objectives which they achieved, which followed set working  strategies and provided for follow-up and evaluation mechanisms. They helped us to  draw up a modernization programme whose application required broad consultations,  the definition of a set of strategies and continuous evaluation. No country today is  unaffected by the expansion of education: all, rich or poor, well or poorly
561    equipped, are striving to eliminate inequalities in order to corne closer to  achieving the democratic ideal set by Unesco: education for all. In Mexico efforts  to eradicate inequality are based on solidarity: solidarity among social groups and  among individuals. TO speak of solidarity is to speak of a living commitment at the  persona1 level and of social participation at the community level, improving and  enhancing the practice of social participation, encouraging it and applying it in  school, the work-place and the community; it means increasing and extending the  awareness and practice of solidarity. Unesco’s work, to which a11 countries have  contributed and which testifies to their solidarity, has been a source of new ideas  for Mexicans. As other countries have done in the past, we today put Mexico’s  Programme for the Modernization of Education at the disposa1 of Unesco and its  members, in the hope that our experience Will increase knowledge of the different  ways in which social justice and the benefits of development cari be extended to all.
(2.8) Ladies and gentlemen, in this forum in which almost a11 the countries of  the earth are represented, we should like once again to express oui recognition of  Unesco’s work. Our Organization, which Will soon have been in existence for 50  years, is now, as it did in 1945, leading the way along new and effective roads in  education, the scientific and humanistic disciplines and culture, and its chances  for success depend on the efforts made in this direction by the Member States and  the support that we give to this task.
(2.9) The Government of Mexico wishes to contribute to the dialogue between the  cultures and civilizations in the contemporary world which Will mark the  commemoration, in 1992, of the Five-Hundredth Anniversary of the Encounter between  Two Worlds. We are interested in the analysis of the influence that this decisive  event had on the history of the whole world. We note with satisfaction that Unesco,  accepting the proposa1 of Mexico which is co-sponsored by many other countries, has  included this commemoration in its Programme and Budget for the next biennium. In  this House, which belongs to a11 the peoples of the earth, the commemoration Will  also be seen in a global context.
(2.10) Mr Director-General, for almost two weeks we have analysed the drafts of  the third Medium-Term Plan and the Programme and Budget. Subject to the individual  observations that the Mexican delegation may make in the different commissions, we  felt these documents reflected the Will of the Member States to discover ways of  ensuring that Unesco’s action reach those for whom it is intended: a11 the peoples  of earth. As in the past, my country was present on this historic occasion. When, in  this same room, at your investiture as Director-General of Unesco, referring in the  first paragraph of your speech to the commitment which you assumed with the  directorship, you quoted some words spoken by Jaime Torres Bodet. 1, for my part,  should like to end my speech with some words spoken by my illustrious compatriot on
2 November 1945 at the Preparatory Conference of Unesco: ‘A certain exclusive mode  of defining nationalism and patriotism, sovereignty and independence, history and  geography, duty and freedom, has prevented man from acting as an individual with a  fervour equal to that which he habitually shows as a member of the society to which  he belongs. Hence the urgency of assigning a common denominator to his development.  And that common denominator cari be supplied only by the moral solidarity of  humankind acting through knowledge and on the basis of education’. Thank you very  much.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Mexico.
3.2 Our second speaker is H.E. Mr Mouhoussine Nacre, Minister of Secondary  and Higher Education and Scientific Research and head of the delegation of  Burkina Faso. He has the floor.
4.1 M. NACRO (Burkina Faso) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mon-  sieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, honorables délé-  gués, au nom de ma délégation, je voudrais tout d'abord m'associer aux orateurs  qui m'ont précédé pour vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre élection  à la présidence de cette vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale de
1'Unesco. Monsieur le Président, je puis vous assurer du soutien de ma délégation  pendant cette session et tout au long de votre mandat pour faire progresser les  idéaux de paix, de justice et de compréhension mutuelle.
4.2 Monsieur le Directeur général, je voudrais, au nom du capitaine Blaise  Compaoré, président du Front populaire, chef de l'Etat, chef du gouvernement et
16  en mon nom propre, vous féliciter pour les succes que vous avez enregistres  depuis votre nomination il y a deux ans à la tête de notre Organisation. Nous  savons que la tâche n'est pas aisée dans le contexte mondial de crise généra-  lisée. Cependant, vos grandes qualités d'homme de science et d'humaniste per-  mettent d'augurer un avenir radieux pour notre Organisation. Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, vous pouvez être assuré du franc soutien de mon pays pour toutes  les initiatives que vous serez amené à prendre pour permettre à 1'Unesco de par-  ticiper pleinement à la défense des valeurs humaines fondamentales telles que la  paix, la tolérance, le droit à la différence - c'est-à-dire au respect de la  dignité humaine.
4.3 Mon pays, à ce sujet, constate avec satisfaction une amélioration sen-  sible de la situation des relations internationales. Je voudrais ici rendre un  hommage appuyé à tous les artisans de cette détente, qui ne peut que favoriser  la réalisation des objectifs de 1'Unesco.
4.4 En cette année du bicentenaire de la Révolution française, il me plaît  aussi de transmettre l'hommage militant du peuple burkinabé au peuple français  qui a, pour l'humanité tout entière et pour l'éternité, tracé la voie de la  liberté, de l'égalité et de la fraternité : trois idéaux si chers à l'ensemble  des communautés réunies dans le cadre de 1'Unesco. Je vous demande, Monsieur le  ministre, chef de la délégation de la République française, d'être l'interprète  de ma délégation pour exprimer au peuple français et aux autorités françaises,  toute notre gratitude pour la chaleureuse hospitalité accordée à notre délégation  ainsi qu'à tous les participants et pour le soutien constant que le pays hôte  n'a cessé d'accorder à notre Organisation pour faciliter son épanouissement.
4.5 Honorables délégués, la crise que traverse aujourd'hui le monde se  caractérise essentiellement par une aggravation des inégalités entre les pays  riches et les pays pauvres. Cette crise qui perdure ne devrait pas être un fac-  teur de découragement mais l'occasion d'une prise de conscience pour un change-  ment de notre vision des choses pour l'avenir. Notre Organisation doit développer  de plus en plus les initiatives tendant à réduire les inégalités de tous ordres  qui caractérisent les relations internationales en cette veille du XXIe siècle.  Ainsi et plus que jamais, notre action devra se développer pour promouvoir la  lutte contre le racisme et l'apartheid, contre l'intolérance et toutes les formes  de discrimination ainsi que contre l'analphabétisme et l'ignorance. L'Unesco peut  et doit apporter une contribution déterminante à l'élimination de toutes ces  monstruosités sociales et pour l'avènement d'un monde où il fera bon vivre pour  tous : blancs et noirs, riches et pauvres, hommes et femmes, grands et petits,  croyants et non-croyants. Dans cette lutte, 1'Unesco a déjà inscrit de grandes  victoires à son actif. Mais la route est encore longue et le combat encore plus  implacable et plus harassant.
4.6 Tout cela ne peut être réalisé que dans un climat de paix. Tous nos  efforts doivent donc tendre vers sa consolidation. Et comme l'a dit avec sagesse  le président Houphouët-Boigny de la Côte d'ivoire, "la paix ce n'est pas un mot,  c’est un comportement". Effectivement, la paix est un comportement dicté par un  certain nombre de facteurs dont les principaux sont, me semble-t-il, le respect  de soi-même et d'autrui ainsi que l'acceptation du droit à la différence comme  source de complémentarité, d'appréciation mutuelle et d'enrichissement réci-  proque. L'Unesco à travers ses plans et ses programmes doit contribuer à l'avè-  nement d'un monde de paix sans lequel aucun développement réel ne peut être  envisagé.
4.7 Ainsi le Projet de plan à moyen terme soumis à notre examen traduit bien  nos préoccupations. En effet, les trois thèmes - paix, développement et protec-  tion de l'environnement - retenus pour soutenir de façon permanente l'action de  notre Organisation sont tous aussi pertinents que d'actualité. Ils correspondent  bien aux grands défis auxquels l'humanité tout entière doit aujourd'hui doit  faire face. Nous constatons que ce projet de plan présente des innovations notam-  ment dans la concentration des programmes en sept champs majeurs, en thèmes et  programmes transversaux ainsi que dans le recentrage des priorités. Nous souhai-  tons que ces innovations contribuent à rendre l'action de 1'Unesco encore plus  tangible et encore plus significative.
4.8 Le plan administratif qui accompagne le Plan à moyen terme reflète, à  notre sens, le souci du Directeur général de mettre en oeuvre de la façon la plus  efficace possible les politiques retenues pour les six années à venir et je vou-  drais lui exprimer ma satisfaction pour ces mesures qui honorent son sens de la  rigueur et son esprit de suite.
4.9 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1990-
1991 traduit naturellement les orientations principales du plan. Mon pays a par-  ticulièrement apprécié les renforcements budgétaires qui ont été rendus possibles
563    à la faveur de la politique de restructuration et de concentration. Mon pays, le  Burkina Faso, et pratiquement tous les pays de la région Afrique sont aujour-  d'hui, plus que par le passé, confrontés à d'énormes contraintes économiques et  financières, qui ont des conséquences négatives sur les secteurs de l'éducation,  de la science, de la culture et de la communication - c'est-à-dire tous les  domaines relevant de la compétence de 1'Unesco.  à ces secteurs sont partout en stagnation,  Les budgets alloués par nos pays  voire en régression * en outre, le  lourd service de la dette et le programme d'ajustement struciurel que nous  appliquons ne sont pas de nature à faciliter les choses.
4.10 Ainsi, s'agissant de l'éducation, on peut dire que les conséquences de  cette situation sont fort préoccupantes. Mon pays connaît un taux de scolarisa-  tion parmi les plus bas du monde, associé à une dégradation continue de la qua-  lité de l'enseignement. Nos efforts pour favoriser une expansion accélérée des  services d'éducation semblent vains. Quand on sait que le développement d'un pays  suppose le développement des ressources humaines, on ne peut que souscrire aux  programmes proposés dans le 25 C/5 sous le thème "Vers une éducation de base pour  tous" et au titre du projet mobilisateur 1 (Lutte contre l'analphabétisme grâce  à un enseignement primaire de qualité). Les aspects du programme touchant aux  domaines de l'enseignement de base et de l'alphabétisation retiennent particu-  lièrement l'attention de mon pays, qui déploie des efforts à la limite de ses  moyens et de son génie pour combattre l'ignorance dont souffre encore, hélas,  plus de 90 % de sa population. Mon pays se félicite de la tenue prochaine de la  Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous, organisée en Thaïlande à l'ini-  tiative de l'unesco, de l'Unicef, du PNUD et de la Banque mondiale. Nous formu-  lons le voeu que les résultats de cette Conférence nous permettent de trouver  des solutions aux problèmes de l'éducation dans nos pays.
4.11 Sur le plan culturel, le Burkina se veut un foyer et un carrefour cultu-  rels. C'est pourquoi des initiatives ont été prises pour favoriser la promotion  et le rayonnement de la culture africaine : la création et la tenue régulière du  Festival panafricain du cinéma de Ouagadougou, l'organisation du Symposium inter-  national de l'artisanat de Ouagadougou, l'organisation d'un Symposium internatio-  nal de la sculpture sur granite, le fait d'abriter le siège de la Fédération  panafricaine des cinéastes et la création de l'Institut des peuples noirs  l'attestent largement. Toutes ces initiatives témoignent de notre foi en l'avenir  du dialogue des cultures, qui est nécessaire à la défense et à la promotion de  la dignité humaine. Assurant la présidence de la deuxième Conférence des  ministres africains de la culture, mon pays constate avec satisfaction que la  Décennie mondiale du développement culturel est prise en compte dans le champ  majeur de programme III (La culture : passé, présent et avenir).
4.12 Dans le domaine de l'information, le Burkina Faso se réjouit de ce que  l'unesco ait clairement perçu que le défi majeur demeure le bouleversement des  méthodes traditionnelles de gestion, avec le développement accéléré des technolo-  gies de l'information. Les solutions préconisées dans le Projet de programme pour  relever ce défi nous paraissent appropriées, notamment celles relatives au Pro-  gramme général d'information, inspirées en grande partie par le Conseil inter-  gouvernemental du PG1 auquel mon pays participe. Nous espérons que la mise en  oeuvre des programmes se fera, comme par le passé, avec diligence et compétence.  C'est ici le lieu pour nous de féliciter le Secrétariat de 1'Unesco pour la part  importante qu'il prend dans l'exécution d'un projet d'assistance du PNUD en  faveur des Archives nationales du Burkina. Dans le même ordre d'idées, qu'il me  soit permis de renouveler nos remerciements à la Division du Programme général  d'information (PGI) pour la qualité de sa contribution à l'exécution du projet.
4.13 Plus généralement, mon pays approuve les autres aspects du programme,  et plus particulièrement ceux qui touchent aux questions de la protection et de  la préservation et, pourquoi pas, de la restauration de l'environnement. Il ne  pouvait en être autrement pour un pays sahélien comme le mien.
4.14 Mon pays soutient également les programmes relatifs à la science et à  la technologie. Dans ce domaine, je me réjouis de ce que CASTAFRICA III se réu-  nira d'ici à 1995. Il serait également bon que 1'Unesco institutionnalise la  réunion des responsables des politiques scientifiques nationales.
4.15 Concernant le programme de l'information et de la communication, mon  pays soutient le consensus dégagé au sein du Conseil exécutif et consigné dans  le document 25 (7108.
4.16 Le champ majeur de programme VII, dans lequel sont proposées des formes  de lutte contre la discrimination et notamment l'apartheid, retient aussi toute  notre attention ; c'est pourquoi nous estimons qu'un budget plus substantiel  devrait lui être affecté pour permettre à l'Organisation de mener des actions à  la hauteur de ses objectifs. A cet égard, nous demandons à la Conférence générale
16  de prendre en compte la proposition du Conseil exécutif tendant à créer un prix  Nelson Mandela.
4.17 Monsieur le Président, les programmes soumis à l'appréciation de la  Conférence me paraissent cohérents et de nature à contribuer à la réalisation  des objectifs de notre Organisation. Mais, comme nous le savons tous, notre  Organisation n'a pas toujours les moyens de ses ambitions. Il est donc important  et impératif que le Directeur général entreprenne les actions nécessaires pour  mobiliser des ressources supplémentaires, notamment en renforçant ses relations  avec les autres institutions des Nations Unies.
4.18 D'autres mesures, Monsieur le Directeur général, doivent être étudiées  pour rendre 1'Unesco encore plus efficace. Les mesures de décentralisation et de  restructuration entreprises doivent être accélérées. Mais cela suppose que ces  nouvelles structures soient pourvues des moyens nécessaires à leur bon fonction-  nement. La situation de la représentation de 1'Unesco pour les affaires sahé-  liennes, dont le siège est à Ouagadougou, est très éloquente à cet égard. Ce  Bureau, qui doit couvrir trois pays, ne dispose que d'un seul fonctionnaire, le  chef de mission.
4.19 Monsieur le Directeur général, dès votre entrée en fonctions en 1987  vous avez annoncé votre ferme volonté d'accorder une attention particulière a  l'Afrique. Le programme d'action "Priorité Afrique" vient matérialiser cette  volonté. Il constitue un programme cohérent et pertinent de nature à permettre à  l'Afrique de se préparer à entrer dans le XXIe siècle en même temps que le reste  de l'humanité. Mon pays, le Burkina Faso, vous soutient fermement et espère que  des moyens seront mis à votre disposition pour sa réalisation.
4.20 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, je ne voudrais pas terminer  sans adresser mes souhaits de bienvenue au sein de notre Organisation aux trois  nouveaux Etats membres : Djibouti, Kiribati et les îles Cook. En même temps que  je m'acquitte de cet agréable devoir, je lance un appel aux trois Etats qui nous  ont quittés, battant ainsi en brèche le principe de l'universalité de 1'Unesco.  Je formule le voeu que, dans un avenir proche, ils sauront quitter leur observa-  toire pour nous faire bénéficier, comme par le passé, de leur riche expérience  pour la promotion d'un monde de progrès, de démocratie et de liberté. Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
5. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Burkina Faso.  this morning is H.E. Mr Ok Sakun,  Our third speaker  Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary  and head of the delegation of Democratic Kampuchea. He has the floor.
6.1 M. SAKUN (Kampuchéa démocratique) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres,  Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous  adresser mes plus chaleureuses félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la  présidence de la Conférence générale. Nous saluons en vous l'éminent représentant  d'un pays ami, la Malaisie, auquel mon pays est uni par des liens multiples et  envers lequel il nourrit des sentiments de gratitude pour le rôle éminent qu'il  joue, avec ses autres partenaires de l'ASEAN, dans la défense de la liberté, la  paix et la sécurité dans notre région, en particulier dans la recherche d'une  solution politique globale, juste et durable, au problème dit du Kampuchéa.
6.2 Ma délégation vous assure, Monsieur le Président, de sa pleine et  entière coopération. Elle est convaincue que vos éminentes qualités et votre  longue expérience contribueront grandement au succès de cette session de la  Conférence générale qui sera, nous en sommes convaincus, un jalon important dans  l'histoire de notre Organisation.
6.3 Ma délégation souhaite également remercier et féliciter vivement notre  Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, et par son intermédiaire le Secrétariat,  pour l'immense travail accompli pour la préparation de cette importante session  et pour la grande qualité des documents mis à notre disposition. Nous voudrions  en particulier remercier notre Directeur général pour son excellent rapport  introductif qui constitue pour nous à la fois un outil de travail précieux et  une source de réflexion extrêmement riche.
6.4 Ma délégation félicite chaleureusement la République de Djibouti, les  îles Cook et la République de Kiribati et est heureuse de les accueillir au sein  de la grande famille de 1'Unesco. Nous sommes persuadés que leur présence et leur  contribution dans tous les domaines enrichiront notre Organisation dans son  aspiration à l'universalité.
6.5 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation tient à réaffirmer que mon pays, à  l'instar d'autres petits pays, fonde ses espoirs dans le système des Nations  Unies au sein duquel 1'Unesco occupe une place privilégiée. En effet, l'oeuvre  entreprise par 1'Unesco est unique et fait honneur à l'humanité. Nous pensons  ici aux travaux que l'Organisation a réalisés et est en train de poursuivre,  notamment dans le domaine de l'éducation, dans celui de la préservation des  cultures considérées comme patrimoine commun de l'humanité, ainsi que dans celui  de la diffusion des connaissances scientifiques qui se développent à un rythme  sans précédent et cela, sans parler d'autres grands défis que 1'Unesco se doit  également de relever à l'aube de ce XXIe siècle.
6.6 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation apprécie hautement que, dans la  préparation du Projet de plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995 et dans celle du  Projet de programme et de budget pour 1990-1991 qui en constitue la première  tranche d'application, un souci de dialogue et de concertation constant a guidé  le Directeur général, et nous saisissons cette occasion pour féliciter le Conseil  exécutif et son président, M. José Israel Vargas, pour leurs multiples et pré-  cieuses contributions. Ces Projets de plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995 et de  programme et de budget pour 1990-1991 recueillent dans leur ensemble notre agré-  ment et notre appui.
6.7 Concernant les priorités, nous souscrivons entièrement à celles qui  mettent l'accent sur une "éducation de base pour tous" et ma délégation se féli-  cite de la tenue prochaine, du 5 au 9 mars 1990, en Thaïlande, de la Conférence  mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous. A cet égard, nous souhaitons vivement que  l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation, le Plan d'action pour éliminer  l'analphabétisme d'ici à l'an 2000 et cette Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation  pour tous puissent bénéficier du plein soutien de l'Organisation et des Etats  membres, car ils sont un puissant encouragement aux efforts déployés de par le  monde pour vaincre l'ignorance et l'analphabétisme qui demeurent, hélas, des  maux encore courants dans de nombreux pays en voie de développement dont le  mien, en particulier dans les régions rurales où vit la majeure partie de la  population.
6.8 Monsieur le Président, dans son introduction au débat de politique géné-  rale, le Directeur général a mentionné à juste titre que l'avenir de l'espèce  humaine dépend de la façon dont seront surmontés trois grands défis globaux : le  développement, la protection de l'environnement et la paix. Et d'ajouter qu'aucun  de ces défis ne peut être abordé séparément. Il a en outre souligné, dans son  discours d'ouverture, que construire la paix, la liberté et la justice à travers  le monde est une immense tâche qui requiert des efforts communs. Personne ne peut  l'entreprendre seul. C'est seulement ensemble que nous pourrons réussir.
6.9 Nous souscrivons entièrement à l'idée que, sans paix, il ne peut y avoir  de progrès et de développement. La paix est un préalable et en luttant depuis  une décennie pour sa survie et pour préserver son identité nationale contre les  tentatives d'absorption par un envahisseur plus puissant et dont le pays est  presque dix fois plus peuplé, notre peuple apporte sa modeste contribution à la  défense des idéaux de paix, de progrès et de liberté de l'unesco, une paix dans  l'honneur, l'indépendance et le respect de son identité nationale.
6.10 C'est comme toujours guidé par de nobles idéaux de paix et de progrès  que S.A.R. le prince Norodom Sihanouk, chef de la résistance nationale  cambodgienne et président du Kampuchéa démocratique, a proposé un plan de paix  en cinq points. La magnanimité de ses propositions est sans égale dans l'his-  toire. Ce plan de paix des plus généreux a reçu le soutien de l'ensemble de la  communauté internationale, mais a été rejeté avec arrogance par les occupants de  notre pays. Nous ne leur demandons rien qui leur appartienne. Nous leur demandons  seulement de rendre ce qui appartient au Cambodge et au peuple cambodgien, à  savoir notre indépendance et notre intégrité territoriale.
6.11 Cependant, pour répondre aux pressions chaque année plus fermes et plus  résolues de l'ensemble de la communauté internationale, les occupants sont  réduits au subterfuge d'un prétendu retrait unilatéral de certaines troupes en  uniforme, alors que des dizaines de milliers d'autres troupes déguisées conti-  nuent d'occuper une partie du Cambodge et que se poursuit l'envoi de nouveaux  contingents, à l'insu de tous, dans le but évident d'essayer de faire passer leur  guerre d'agression et d'occupation pour une prétendue "guerre civile". Dans ce  but, ils ont mis sur pied une importante cinquième colonne dissimulée dans  l'armée fantoche et au sein de leurs colons dont le nombre dépasse un million.
6.12 Il est évident que, sans un mécanisme international de contrôle et de  supervision de l'ONU, le prétendu "retrait total" des troupes d'occupation du  Cambodge n'est qu'une tromperie.
6.13 Le seul objectif de la résistance nationale cambodgienne et du gouver-  nement de coalition du Kampuchéa démocratique est la réalisation de la profonde  et légitime aspiration de tout le peuple cambodgien, à savoir le rétablissement  de la paix au Cambodge, dans l'indépendance et la liberté. Face à l'obstination  de l'occupant à poursuivre à tout prix son occupation colonialiste au Cambodge,  la résistance nationale cambodgienne et le gouvernement de coalition du Kampuchéa  démocratique n'ont d'autre voie que de poursuivre leur combat pour la réalisation  de cette aspiration aussi longtemps que l'occupant n'acceptera pas de retirer  réellement, sous le contrôle d'un mécanisme de 1'ONU assisté d'une force  onusienne de maintien de la paix, toutes ses forces du Cambodge, aussi longtemps  qu'il refusera de rendre son indépendance pleine et entière ainsi que son inté-  grité territoriale au Cambodge, et le droit sacré et inaliénable à l'autodéter-  mination au peuple cambodgien.
6.14 Monsieur le Président, en lançant la Décennie mondiale du développement  culturel, 1'Unesco a donné une dimension nouvelle au développement, à l'épanouis-  sement des identités culturelles, à la coopération et à la solidarité culturelles  internationales. Mon gouvernement approuve les actions proposées dans le rapport  introductif du Directeur général au titre des priorités du Plan à moyen terme  pour 1990-1995.
6.15 Parmi ces priorités, il en est une haute, attachée aux actions d'urgence  à mener pour assurer la préservation, contre les dégradations et la spoliation,  des objets de valeur historique inestimable et des monuments qui font partie du  patrimoine culturel de l'humanité tout entière. Angkor se trouve être l'un de ces  vestiges prestigieux, témoignage du passé glorieux d'un peuple. Les monuments  d'Angkor sont actuellement menacés non seulement par les atteintes de la nature,  mais également par celles de l'homme, par celles des occupants étrangers qui s'y  livrent à un pillage systématique ou, faute de pouvoir le faire, s'acharnent à  les dégrader irrémédiablement. Les monuments d'Angkor constituent pour notre  peuple un héritage culturel inestimable et nous sommes particulièrement sensibles  à l'attention que le Directeur général a bien voulu leur réserver. Nous tenons a  lui renouveler ici, au nom de S.A.R. le prince Norodom Sihanouk, chef de la  résistance nationale cambodgienne et président du Kampuchéa démocratique, notre  profonde gratitude pour les efforts soutenus qu'il a déployés afin que les tra-  vaux puissent être entrepris dès que la situation le permettra. Nous sommes  convaincus que 1'Unesco continuera d'oeuvrer pour la sauvegarde de ces monuments  qui revêtent une importance primordiale pour notre nation, tout en tenant compte  de la situation complexe et en pleine évolution sur le terrain, ainsi que des  résolutions et des décisions pertinentes de l'Assemblée générale de 1'ONU sur  notre pays.
6.16 Ma délégation saisit cette occasion pour adresser ses plus profonds  remerciements à tous les pays qui continuent à oeuvrer pour le retour rapide de  la paix dans mon pays, par un règlement politique global, juste et durable du  problème dit du Kampuchéa. Le Cambodge une fois rétabli dans son indépendance,  sa souveraineté nationale et sa dignité, démuni et dévasté par une longue guerre  d'occupation, aura alors plus que jamais besoin de l'aide et de la solidarité  internationales pour sa reconstruction, et sera reconnaissant pour toute aide et  assistance de tous les pays du monde. Dans cette perspective, le système des  Nations Unies aura certainement un rôle très important à jouer et l'unesco, comme  nous l'avons à maintes reprises déclaré, aura une place privilégiée. En effet,  alphabétiser, éduquer sont autant de tâches ardues et de longue haleine et
1'Unesco pourra faire bénéficier notre pays de sa précieuse et vaste expérience.  La terre d'Angkor, au passé bimillénaire, avec l'aide de toute la communauté  internationale, pourra alors véritablement revivre dans tout son honneur retrouvé  et contribuer à l'avènement d'un monde toujours plus solidaire. Merci, Monsieur  le Président.
7. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Democratic Kampuchea, and 1 cal1  on H.E. Mr Ataraoti Bwebwenibure, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Kiribati.
8.1 Mr BWENBWENIBURE (Kiribati):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  it is indeed a great honour and privilege to be here and say a few words on  behalf of the Kiribati Government. Since Kiribati is new to Unesco, it is also  new to many Member States of this Organization, and some of you would wonder  what the country, its people, its resources, and SO on look like. It may be  pertinent therefore, for me to give a brief description of Kiribati to the  Conference.
8.2 Kiribati is made up of 33 islands, subdivided into three groups: the  Gilbert group, a chain of 17 islands; the Phoenix group, a group of eight
567    islands; and the Line group, alS0 comprising eight islands. These islands are  situated in the Central Pacifie round about the point where the International  Date Line intersects the equator. They rarely rise more than 5 metres above sea  level and are composed of coral skeletons. In shape, these islands are usually  narrow, broken strips of land partly surrounding a lagoon. The total land area  of a11 these islands is only 746 square kilometres, and widely dispersed over
3 million square kilometres of ocean.
8.3 Kiribati experiences an equatorial climate, and because of poor soi1  conditions, which are mostly sandy, a high level of salinity, Salt sprays and a  lack of surface water due to insufficient rainfall. The principal food crops,  'babai' (swamp taro), pandanus and breadfruit, are cultivated largely for  subsistence, while coconut palms are grown for both subsistence and trade. Fish  and other marine resources are deemed to be in large numbers and at present  represent the greatest single potential for sustainable development. For  economic development, effort is being made to identify and bring into play a  diversified basis. Future development Will to a large extent depend on the  exploitation of marine resources, the development of recreational tourism, the  establishment of a tax haven, if possible, and the encouragement of cottage  industries. Our isolated, Small and widely dispersed island economies and the  harsh ecological environment impose considerable constraints. Nevertheless we  Will try to find ways to overcome them.
8.4 The people of Kiribati are called I-Kiribati and are of Micronesian  stock. Our population numbers about 65,000 (1988 figures), of which 40 per cent  are under the age of 15 and nearly 90 per cent under 50 years of age - the  officia1 retirement age. This implies strong future population growth if family  planning is not improved quickly.
8.5 The islands became independent from the United Kingdom in 1979 and form  what is now the Republic of Kiribati. The Head of our Government is the  Beretitenti meaning 'President'. He is Chief Executive and Head of State as  well. Although it maintains no diplomatie missions abroad, Kiribati has cordial  relationships with other countries, international organizations and entities.  Kiribati holds membership status in the Commonwealth of Nations, the South  Pacifie forum, the Economie and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacifie, the  World Health Organization (WHO) and the EEC-related African, Caribbean and  Pacifie States and others. Although not a member of the United Nations, we  accept the Charter and adhere to its principles.
8.6 In Kiribati there are various dialects, traditional authorities and  customs. We strongly identify with the home islands whence our ancestors came.  Despite these differences, a11 islands speak the same language and have many  similarities.
8.7 The extended family, which plays a significant role in the life of an  I-Kiribati, is the most important unit within the community. The communities are  small and closely knit organizations in which an individual's roles, obligations  and rights are clearly identified. Land is highly valued both as a means of  producing our livelihood and for social functions. In earlier times many  territorial battles were fought; and the ownership and transfer of land in the  form of gifts are still crucial today.
8.8 Many changes have been experienced over the past 150 years since the  Europeans first came to our shores. One change, namely the adoption of  Christianity, has now become an integral part of our life. But despite these  changes the uniqueness of our culture has generally been preserved, particularly  on the outer islands.
8.9 Educétion in Kiribati, both st primary and secondary level, was  originally established by the churches - the Catholic Church and the Kiribati  Protestant Church, formerly the London Missionary Society. Now government has  taken over the running of a11 primary schools, which are free and compulsory for  classes 1 to 9 or ages 6 to 14. Secondary schooling, on the other hand, is still  carried out by both churches and government. Tertiary education is provided by  the Teachers Training College, Technical Institute and Marine Training School,  which are a11 government-run. Some tertiary education is also provided outside  the country.
8.10 The overall objectives of our education system are to increase numeracy  and literacy in the English and I-Kiribati languages and provide the people with  the knowledge and skills relevant to life in Kiribati. The latest survey carried  out showed that 90 per cent of a11 able-bodied I-Kiribati (age 15-55) could read  in their mother tongue and also do simple arithmetic. About 30 per cent were  proficient in reading and writing English and carrying out more complex  arithmetic operations.
8.11 A total of 106 primary schools have been established, providing a place  for every Child of primary-school age in Kiribati. At class 7, a11 secondary  entrante is effected via the common entrante examination. There are only seven  secondary schools in the whole country, and while government is trying to meet  parents' calls for more academic secondary places to be made available, the  number of educated Young people seeking forma1 employment is also increasing  from year to year.
8.12 The Teachers Training College is responsible for a11 basic primary  teacher training and offers a three-year programme. It also conducts refresher  courses for serving teachers. Our Technical Institute runs a wide variety of  courses in such subjects as engineering, typing , accounting, management,  secretarial skills, clerical skills, English, rural training and such others as  may be required from time to time by the government or private sector. The Rural  Training Centre has been developing various appropriate technologies in - for  example - building and water tank construction for use on other islands. The  centre has also begun a programme of establishing subsidiary institutions on  outer islands.
8.13 The school broadcasting unit also deserves mention here in that it  offers valuable material which the primary teacher may use both directly and  indirectly in helping to develop critical appreciation in their pupils. It is  through practice that pupils learn to listen and through talking with their  teachers and among themselves that thay learn to appraise what they hear.
8.14 More advanced scholarship, strictly defined as the assistance provided  for higher education or university education attended by pre-service students  after completion of a seventh-form education, is heavily dependent on external  aid. The government contribution to higher education in the forum of subsidies  or grants to the University of the South Pacifie, where most Kiribati students  study, amounts to to about one third of the overall programme.
8.15 Mr President, Mr Director-General, a11 1 have said sounds very simple  and easy. Believe me, it is not; there are a lot of complications and to mention  just a few they include: the problem of balancing the needs of the bulk of the  students who Will spend their lives working mostly in the traditional  subsistence informa1 sector with the needs of those who Will work in the modern  sector; the problem of classroom maintenance, which is very expensive in the  long run since most premises are built in local materials; the fact that many  schools are not properly furnished, lacking desks, chairs, and SO on; the lack  of sufficient materials and equipment, for example, textbooks, printing  machines, and SO on; inadequate storage space for equipment; the problem of  continually changing educational ideologies, teaching and learning experiences  and curricula while the retraining of teachers is slow, and SO forth. The main  cause of a11 these problems is the shortage of funds, and our local budget alone  cannot meet the costs. We would welcome any assistance that could be offered now  or in the future.
8.16 Mr President, life in Kiribati may be hard and demanding, but our  people have adapted to it. There was, and still is, enough time after our work  to produce a rich cultural heritage of songs, dance and story-telling. These  forms of entertainment are still widely practised by I-Kiribati today.
8.17 Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  that is Kiribati in a nutshell. Before 1 conclude 1 would like to thank this  Organization for a11 the assistance that has been given to Kiribati in the past  and that we hope for in the days to corne. Let me also take this opportunity and  on behalf of the Kiribati Government and its people to thank again the Executive  Board and this General Conference for the recommendation and unanimous decision  to admit Kiribati as a Member State of Unesco. It is indeed a great honour for  Kiribati to become part of this distinguished Organization, and already we are  proud of it.
8.18 Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  please be assured that we in Kiribati hold Unesco in high esteem. Therefore, by  virtue of its admission, Kiribati hereby accepts Unesco's Constitution and is  ready to fulfil her obligations and contribute towards the expenses of the  Organization. May 1 share with you, at this twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference, a motto of my countrymen: Te mauri, te raoi ao te tabomoa. It means  'health, peace and prosperity'. Thank you.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Kiribati. 1 now have pleasure in  inviting H.E. Mr D. Isidoro-Eyi Mansuy Andeme, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister  of Education, Youth and Sports and head of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea,  to take the floor.
(10.1) Mr MANSUY ANDEME (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, ministers, honourable heads of delegation, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 should like to begin by extending to you, Mr President of the General  Conference, on behalf of His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the  Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and of my delegation, and on my own behalf, our  sincere congratulations on your distinguished election to chair this twenty-fifth  session of the General Conference. The nine days that we have spent working together  in this conference room with Your Excellency, added to your persona1 record of  service in the Executive Board, have fully justified the vote of the delegation of  the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and we are convinced that, with the help of  Almighty God and of each and every one of us, Unesco Will be increasingly successful  in fulfilling and promoting the ideals of its founders. We also extend our  congratulations to the Chairman of the Executive Board and, through him, to each and  every one of the members of its different commissions, for the recommendations made  in documents 25 C/4 and 25 C/5 which we believe will facilitate the work of this  General Conference. The delegation of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea also  congratulates His Excellency Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of Unesco, on his  spirit of dialogue and openness during the two years that he has headed Unesco, and  for having made a point of preparing a special programme for Africa. Mr  Director-General, we should like to take this opportunity to convey fraternal  greetings and good wishes for yourself and your distinguished family, and wishes for  ever greater success in your arduous task, from the President of the Republic of  Equatorial Guinea, His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.
(10.2) Mr President, the delegation of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea wishes to  be economic in its use of the minutes that you allow each speaker. Our dslegation  supports the programmes submitted by the Director-General and we, like the speakers  who preceded us, welcome the main spheres of activity identified by the  Director-General in the documents that we are analysing at this Conference:  documents 25 C/4 and 25 C/5, congratulating him on their high quality, their wide  coverage and their clarity, which leaves one in no doubt as to how they should be  interpreted.
(10.3) Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, on the morning of
3 August 1979, the present government of our country, headed by His Excellency  Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, assumed  responsibility for the historic destiny of the people of Equatorial Guinea, and  since that date we have made a particular effort to join international, regional and  subregional bodies. Ten years after that date, our participation in these bodies is
16  clear. Regional location and ethnie, linguistic and geographic affinities are giving  added strength to our presence and membership in the Economie Community of Central  African States. Our relations within the great family of the Afro-Latin American  States are also strengthened by our shared historical and cultural relationships,  with Equatorial Guinea forming the African apex of that community of peoples.
(10.4) Equatorial Guinea, which is taking part in this twenty-fifth session of the  General Conference of Unesco as a full-fledged Member State, sees Unesco as a  bulwark and pillar of civilization, and as one of the instruments that reflect the  desire among peoples for international co-operation. Hence, the Government of the  Republic of Equatorial Guinea supports and attaches great importance to the  management of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  for Unesco’s co-operation activities are directed basically at the developing  countries, appropriate solutions being provided in its fields of competence. This is  why we are gathered here today, in recognition of the reality of an organization  whose contribution to the educational development of Equatorial Guinea and of the  world at large is of considerable significance. This General Conference is proof  that Unesco continues to be an organ of reflection on the world’s problems; this, in  our opinion, is not only indispensable, but is also consonant with the original  intentions of the Organization’s founders.
(10.5) Having regard to the considerable number of themes which are being dealt  with at this twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, the Republic of  Equatorial Guinea appreciates the fact,that Unesco has always assigned priority to  those concerning the preservation of the cultural heritage of peoples, the promotion  of international co-operation, the promotion of human rights, the elimination of  colonialism and neo-colonialism, the protection of the environment, the fight  against illiteracy and the other issues which are now of universal concern.  Endorsing the principle of respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, the  Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea has launched and is developing a  long-term process of democratization which is based on the creation of  organizational structures and forms of democratic participation. This process is now  achieving its most noteworthy results, for the people of Equatorial Guinea have once  again had the opportunity of exercising one of the most important political rights  existing in free and sovereign States, with the approval of the text of the  fundamental law by means of a nationwide referendum held in 1982. The areas to which  the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea has assigned development  priority in this process of democratization include the educational, scientific,  cultural and communication sectors and scientific and technological research. The  Republic of Equatorial Guinea endorses the Mexico City Declaration in the sense that  ‘no country cari extend its development beyond the stage reached by its education’.  Education in the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, fostered and developed within a  democratic context, seeks basically to become education which will ensure progress  in building a democracy continually striving for perfection, cultivating ideas and  practices among children and Young people, and maintaining this process on a  lifelong basis through continuing training.
(10.6) Accordingly, the General Decree-Law of Education has been promulgated,  filling the vacuum which had existed since the country’s accession to independence  on 12 October 1968. In order to cater satisfactorily for educational needs,  Equatorial Guinea must have a system of education geared to its actual circumstances  and specific features, a system that will improve the poor qualitative and  quantitative efficiency of education and give the maximum boost to the capacity of  the Equatorial Guinean people by providing them with ail-round training and ensuring  their economic, social and cultural well-being. In pursuing this policy, we have  relied on the participation and assistance of Unesco in the planning, design,  testing and application of a primary-level curriculum, and in the preparation of  national personnel to train primary and middle-level teachers. We shall continue to  entrust Unesco with the management of this project and the provision of assistance  for it, without prejudice to the fact that experts of any nationality may take part  in it provided that Unesco involves the Republic of Equatorial Guinea in prior  selection procedures. We take the opportunity of expressing our gratitude to Unesco,  the World Bank, UNDP, ILO, WHO, UNICEF and ADB for the assistance they have been  providing to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea in its nation-building programme, and  ask them to continue to give us their support. Unesco also co-operated with  Equatorial Guinea in drawing up a critical analysis of the educational system which  has helped to widen and enhance knowledge of the actual educational situation. The  data collected Will be suitably interpreted SO as to define the different aspects of  the problems posed and, in this way, provide alternative solutions compatible with  the policy underlying national development.
(10.7) It is on this basis that we have embarked on the work of defining education  strategies for the 1990-1995 five-year period SO as to find fitting solutions for  the problems that prevent the educational system of the Republic of Equatorial  Guinea from tackling in an efficient and energetic manner this daunting task of  providing education of higher quality and wider coverage. We are endeavouring to
573    bring the majority of the school-age population within the educational system,  priority being assigned to the primary level; links are being established between  the educational system and the country’s development needs, emphasis being laid on  the preparation of human resources for occupational categories and production  sectors, by means of vocational technical training. We also wish to promote the  preservation of cultural values, the reassertion of our cultural identity and mutual  knowledge among the cultural groups of the country. We recognize that this calls for  the incorporation of indigenous culture which reflects aspects of our national  identity. The delegation of my country welcomes the proposa1 of the delegation of  Finland that a conference on the restitution of cultural heritages be held in Athens.
(10.8) Mr President, we are convinced that the establishment of efficient  co-operation by a11 governments in the field of education Will without any doubt  ensure the success of universal literacy training with a view to the total  eradication of illiteracy. We accordingly advocate the pooling of technical  experience and information among our States, SO that the Conference of Bangkok on  Education for Al1 by the Year 2000 may achieve its objective of eradicating  illiteracy.
(10.9) Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, my country’s government has just set up the Scientific and Technological  Research Council which is to promote science and technology as the basis of a11  development. We also hope that we cari Count on Unesco’s assistance in the execution  of its programmes. The Government of Equatorial Guinea, a country which is  underdeveloped and historically influenced by different cultures, is peace-loving,  and peace is the legitimate aspiration of a11 peoples everywhere. In this context,  the implementation of programmes which seek to improve education, eliminate  illiteracy and develop science and communication studies would provide the best  foundation for helping to achieve peace and stability throughout the world. The  Republic of Equatorial Guinea indeed sees Unesco as a pioneer and leader in the  fulfilment of these aspirations and the achievement of this fraternal type of  international coexistence. People with different characteristics and persuasions  have expressed, and continue to express their view at Unesco where the merits of the  least known cultures are recognized and receive the understanding they deserve, for  Unesco constitutes here a part of the heritage of humankind.
(10.10) My delegation welcomes the admission to the Organization of the Cook  Islands, Djibouti and the Republic of Kiribati. 1 also eamestly hope that those  countries which, for one reason or another, have left the Organization, Will return  to it. 1 am referring here to the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore.
(10.11) We are in favour of the recommendations made by the Executive Board in  regard to the documents which are under discussion in this Conference and warmly  applaud the efforts that have been made and those that are continuing to be made by  the Director-General to achieve peace, for there cannot be a just and equitable  world for a11 while areas of tension continue to exist on earth.
(10.12) Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion may  we say that we note with satisfaction the way in which efforts to enhance culture  and education in the countries of the Third World are being made on the basis of  respect for their traditions, taking into account the dignity of each of them. The  enormous task of improving education and giving it the right philosophical basis for  the twenty-first Century has an irreplaceable protagonist in history, and this  protagonist is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  Thank you very much.
11. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea, and I now cal1  on H.E. Mr René Steichen, Delegate Minister of Cultural Affairs and head of the  delegation of Luxembourg.
12.1 M. STEICHEN (Luxembourg) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs, je voudrais joindre ma voix à ceux qui m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour  féliciter M. Anwar Ibrahim de sa brillante élection à la tête de la présente ses-  sion de la Conférence générale et pour lui souhaiter beaucoup de courage et plein  succès dans cette fonction délicate. Il me tient à coeur également de remercier  le Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, ainsi que tous ses collaborateurs, pour  la qualité des documents qui nous sont soumis pour discussion et décision et de  les assurer du soutien de mon gouvernement dans la réalisation des objectifs et  programmes que nous allons adopter lors de cette session de la Conférence  générale.
12.2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Mes-  sieurs, 1'Unesco se trouve à un tournant important de son histoire. La période
16  d'exécution du deuxième Plan à moyen terme a été marquée par le départ de trois  Etats membres, par une remise en cause radicale de certains programmes et  méthodes de travail de l'Organisation et par une relance des activités dans des  conditions difficiles quant au financement et au personnel. Aujourd'hui, les  conditions sont réunies pour prendre un nouveau  Plan à moyen terme qui,  départ : nous disposons d'un  sans être aussi prospectif et ambitieux que le précédent,  est concentré sur sept champs majeurs de programme découlant directement des  objectifs fondamentaux de 1'Unesco ; nous avons par ailleurs un Projet de pro-  gramme et de budget pour 1990-1991 qui traduit ce Plan à moyen terme en actions  de programme concrètes et, je l'espère du moins, efficaces * nous disposons,  enfin, d'un Directeur général qui a su relancer la machine d; Secrétariat, en  lui redonnant du souffle, de l'ambition et de l'espoir.
12.3 M. Mayor n'est plus un inconnu dans notre pays, car il a fait bénéficier  de son prestige et de son savoir d'homme de science des colloques internationaux  qui se sont tenus à Luxembourg. A cette occasion,  charme, son intelligence et sa  nous avons pu apprécier son  remarquable ouverture d'esprit. Je voudrais lui  renouveler, au nom du gouvernement luxembourgeois, toute notre confiance dans sa  capacité et sa volonté d'affronter les problèmes  apporter une réponse adéquate.  auxquels seule 1'Unesco peut
12.4 Nous espérons également que, sous l'égide de M. Mayor, 1'Unesco va enfin  retrouver cette universalité qui constitue a la fois son essence et sa raison  d'être. Au moment où l'on constate un irréversible effritement des murailles  idéologiques, il devrait être possible de renouer le dialogue interrompu avec  des Etats qui ont été si étroitement liés à la genèse de l'Organisation et qui  lui ont apporté tant de contributions importantes.
12.5  mère,  Mais pour que la vocation universelle de 1'Unesco ne reste pas une chi-  il faudra aussi que l'Organisation soit solidement ancrée dans  éducatif,  l'espace  scientifique et culturel des différents Etats membres. Dans cette  optique, j'estime qu'il faudrait tout mettre en oeuvre pour renforcer l'impact  des comissions nationales, sans  racines  lesquelles 1'Unesco serait un arbre sans  : menacée dans son principe vital et condamnée à dépérir. L'importance  d'une commission nationale ne peut d'ailleurs se mesurer en termes quantitatifs.  Même les petites commissions ont leur raison d'être ; en effet, elles travaillent  souvent dans des conditions difficiles avec des collaborateurs plus ou moins  bénévoles.
12.6 Aussi m'en voudrais-je de ne pas relever l'exemple de notre Commission  luxembourgeoise qui réussit, avec des moyens forcément très limités, à réaliser  des projets utiles et originaux, souvent en relation avec la situation linguis-  tique et socioculturelle de notre pays.  naires,  Elle organise des expositions, des sémi-  des colloques scientifiques et de nombreuses conférences. Dans le cadre  de l'Année internationale de la paix, elle a élaboré une "Anthologie de la paix"  regroupant des textes politiques, littéraires, philosophiques ou journalistiques  d'auteurs luxembourgeois qui se sont exprimés sur le thème de la paix.  conférence donnée par un expert de 1'Unesco sur "L'homme et la nature",  Après la  elle a  institué sous son autorité un comité MAB,  ambitieux.  qui a déjà conçu un plan d'action très  D'autre part, profitant d'une offre de subvention de l'unesco, la  Commission nationale, en collaboration avec le Centre de documentation et d'ani-  mation interculturelles, le Centre de psychologie et d'orientation scolaires et  le Service de l'enseignement primaire du Ministère de l'éducation nationale a  patronné un projet d'information scolaire destiné aux enfants immigrés et à leurs  parents. Un autre projet, bénéficiant d'une subvention de l'unesco, Porte sur  l'insertion socioculturelle des enfants de migrants au Luxembourg et vise à amé-  liorer les conditions dans lesquelles ils sont scolarisés. La Commission natio-  nale s'est en outre associée au Centre Alexander Wiltheim pour l'organisation du  colloque "Eliade/Dumézil" sur l'histoire des religions. Enfin, fidèle a sa fonc-  tion de relais entre le Siège et les Etats membres, la Commission veille a la  transmission des documents de l'llnesco aux principaux intéressés dans notre pays.  Dans cette optique il faut signaler que la Bibliothèque nationale a accepté de  s'occuper du stockage et de la gestion des ouvrages de référence de 1'Unesco  parus sous forme de microfiches.
12.7 Parmi les projets en voie de réalisation, il convient surtout de rele-  ver : un stage de formation de ressortissants africains à RTL, dans le cadre du  programme CERISE qui porte sur la fabrication d'images de synthèse . une action  dans le cadre de l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation en 199; : un groupe  de travail ad hoc a envisagé plusieurs projets concomitants (une exposition de  livres d'enfants, une émission à la radio, une table ronde avec les organisations  de parents d'élèves sur l'intérêt de la lecture,  de l'unesco,  une conférence d'un spécialiste  et un travail de recherche sur l'analphabétisme fonctionnel par un  responsable de l'Institut supérieur d'études et de recherche pédagogiques) * et  finalement, un plan d'action s'inscrivant dans le cadre de la Décennie mondiale  du développement culturel.
12.8 Certes, les actions d'un petit pays comme le nôtre ne pèsent pas bien  lourd dans la balance des réalisations de 1'Unesco. Mais nous sommes prêts a  collaborer avec les autres Etats membres pour faire retrouver à l'unesco tout Son  rayonnement intellectuel et culturel. Il nous semble que la dernière décennie de  ce millénaire - confrontée à tant de problèmes, mais riche aussi en promesses et  en virtualités - offre à 1'Unesco de nombreuses occasions d'affirmer son rôle  d'irremplaçable instance éducative, scientifique, culturelle et - pourquoi ne pas  le dire ? - éthique. Car, en définitive, toutes les compétences du monde ne mène-  ront pas très loin si elles ne sont pas inspirées et soutenues par le sens de la  justice, de la solidarité et de la générosité.
12.9 Supprimer le fléau de l'analphabétisme et réaliser l'éducation pour  tous, sauver le patrimoine culturel et naturel de l'humanité, lutter contre  toutes les formes de discrimination et d'intolérance, privilégier la dimension  culturelle et qualitative du développement sur la simple croissance économique,  garantir enfin la paix par la compréhension et le respect des libertés fondamen-  tales, voilà un idéal, voilà un programme d'avenir auquel nous adhérons pleine-  ment. Comme l'a si bien remarqué M. Federico Mayor dans l'introduction au troi-  sième Plan à moyen terme, tous ces objectifs sont d'ailleurs étroitement liés.  Et nous ne pouvons que nous rallier à son exigence d'une éthique globale, qui  seule peut relever les défis du monde qui est le nôtre et assurer les conditions  de survie de l'humanité. Notre monde a besoin d'une "conscience universelle" et,  par là même, de 1'Unesco. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
13. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Luxembourg, and 1 now cal1 on  H.E. MS Chantal Villeda De Montlovier, Ambassador and head of the delegation of  Honduras.
(14.1) MS VILLEDA DE MONTLOVIER (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of Honduras wishes to thank Unesco  for this opportunity to meet in this international forum to analyse, discuss and put  forward solutions to the problems that face humankind, and for the Organization’s  readiness, in conjunction with the Member States, both industrialized and  developing, to promote practical action designed to deal with the most urgent issues  affecting the peoples of the world, especially the most underprivileged. We should  like to congratulate Mr Anwar Ibrahim on his unanimous election as President of this  twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, safe in the knowledge that under his  skilful direction the success of the work which today brings us together in the  Headquarters of this most important world body is assured. These congratulations are  likewise extended to the other members of the General Committee. We also convey our  most cordial welcome to the Cook Islands, Djibouti and the Republic of Kiribati as  new members of Unesco. On behalf of the Government of Honduras, we also wish to  express our appreciation to the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, for the quality  of the draft third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995), which has been prepared in  accordance with the directives of the Member States, in keeping with the changing  times in which we live, and in the light of the resources available and the urgent  needs of humanity. This Will ensure the effectiveness of action in the development  of high-level human resources, the defence of human rights, the protection of the  environment on a scientific basis, the firm defence of cultural identities and the  unhampered dissemination of a11 information available.
(14.2) Examination and study of the Plan show us Unesco’s resolute intention to  make renewed efforts in conjunction with the Member States and the international  intellectual and scientific community in the search for equitable and judicious  solutions to the urgent problems facing humanity, which are detrimental to human  dignity and lead to conflicts adversely affecting peace and the development of  peoples. It is very encouraging to see, a decade before the year 2000, that Unesco  has carried out an exhaustive examination of the work done and the methods used, as  well as of the amount of resources available, in order to establish a Plan such as  Will guarantee the effectiveness of its action during the next six years by  concentrating the activities to which the Member States attach priority in seven  major areas, among which education occupies a prominent place. The serious,  dedicated and consistent effort which is reflected in the projections of the  Medium-Term Plan provides an incentive for Honduras, a country which shares Unesco’s  commendable aspiration to eliminate, or at least narrow the enormous gap which  exists between the industrialized and the developing countries. We therefore endorse  and unreservedly support the activities set out in the Plan with a view to achieving  lasting peace; the economic and social development of the Central American area; the  eradication of illiteracy, an acute problem which affects the most underprivileged  sections of the population, especially the rural and marginalized sectors; and the  promotion of education for all, based on the priority needs of the target population  and designed to ensure its active participation in development processes and to  foster creative abilities and favourable attitudes towards the protection and  enhancement of the environment based on scientific considerations and sustainable  development.
(14.3) It is important to point out that the educational policy of our government  is inspired by and rooted in the Constitution of the Republic and in the analysis  and knowledge of the Honduran situation, especially in regard to economic, social  and cultural aspects. We are aware of the fact that we cannot aspire to real  democracy while there are still illiterates in Honduras, and we are accordingly  making systematic efforts to provide adult education through an accelerated primary  education course lasting four years - a functional type of education designed  basically for the marginalized urban and rural population - and through the  community cultural centres whose programmes, in addition to providing literacy  teaching, train the population groups in question for occupations and SO improve  their living conditions.
(14.4) It should be pointed out that the educational policies of Honduras are in  keeping with the basic objectives of the Major Project in the Field of Education,  for they seek to increase school enrolment and retention rates, improve the quality  of education and reduce the level of illiteracy, accompanying this by complementary  post-literacy work, and ensur ing the availability of reading texts whose  subject-matter Will interest new literates and be suited to their ability.
(14.5) Mr President, although Honduras is not directly involved in the armed  conflict affecting some of the countries in the Central American area, it cannot,  because of its geographic proximity, stand aside from this type of situation which  generates tension and crisis. At the same time, everyone is aware of the efforts  being made by the Central American Presidents to establish a stable and durable  peace such as Will guarantee a process of uninterrupted development in the economic,  social and cultural spheres, and lead to the achievement of better living  conditions, the enjoyment of democracy and social justice, and the exercise of human  rights. In this effort, as in SO many others, our country has received the resolute  support of Unesco and looks forward, with great interest, to the implementation of  other activities such as the protection and restoration of cultural heritage and the  integration of women in the development process in the context of a balanced  conception of the true merits of women and their role in society, and to the  adoption of measures and policies aimed at improving the circumstances of Young  people in society; furthering their participation in national development processes,  in the prevention of disease and of the use of drugs, in the promotion of physical  education and sport and knowledge of scientific and technological advances; and ,  lastly, ensuring that they play a direct part in the preparation of a better future  for the generations of the year 2000.
(14.6) In conclusion, 1 should like to express the gratitude of the people and  Government of Honduras to Unesco for the efforts that the Organization is making to  promote peace, international co-operation and respect for human rights and, on their  behalf, voice the hope that the results of this General Conference will be reflected  in benefits for the world community at large. Thank you very much.
15. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Honduras. May 1 cal1 now on  H.E. Dr Moses B. Dumbaya, Minister of Education, Cultural Affairs and Sports and  head of the delegation of Sierra Leone.
16.i Mr DUMBAYA (Sierra Leone):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates and observers, on behalf of my  government and my delegation, I should like to extend to the President our  hearty congratulations on his election. I believe that under his guidance and  democratic presidency we Will reach a successful and constructive conclusion. I  also wish to pay a tribute to his predecessor who presided with keen interest  and diligence over the work of the twenty-fourth session of the General  Conference. 1 wish to congratulate the other members of the General Committee  who Will undoubtedly provide the necessary support for the smooth running of  this session.
16.2 Let me also express our highest esteem for and confidence in our  distinguished Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor. His wisdom, experience and  determination are great assets for our Organization in finding solutions to the  multiple problems confronting Unesco. Under his sagacious leadership, Unesco has  achieved new dimensions and dynamism, expanded its horizons and enlarged its  fields of competence. Worthy of special mention, Mr President, is the  Director-General's recent publication entitled 'Priority: Africa' in which he  sets out some general considerations in proposing a programme of action for  Africa with the aim of reinforcing co-operation between Unesco and African  countries within the framework of the United Nations Programme of Action for  African Economie Recovery and Development. This document is thought-provoking  and it should stimulate productive dialogue among our respective technocrats.
16.3 Mr President, please convey my delegation's sincere appreciation and  thanks to a11 the members and staff of the Executive Board and the Secretariat  who have worked so hard in the last two years to produce the documents before  us. We note the concentration of programmes and the determination of salient  priorities in the Draft Programme and Budget which the Board has submitted t0  this session. The Sierra Leone delegation would like to register its  appreciation of the improved presentation of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991 (25 C/5) and the Draft Medium-Term Plan and Administrative Plan for
1990-1995, and of the recommendations and proposed modifications formulated by  the Executive Board concerning these documents. We believe that the coming  biennium has special importance, since it ushers in a new Medium-Term Plan and  Administrative Plan. We see these documents as having a unique function of  stock-taking and consolidating many of the programmes. In our view, the Board  should be authorized and encouraged to continue the work of change and  rejuvenation in our Organization.  i6.4 Mr President, this session of the General Conference is taking place at  a time when the socio-economic gap between the haves and have-nots is increasing  by leaps and bounds. The rich are becoming richer and the poor becoming much  poorer. And it is very heartening to note the determination of the  Director-General as expressed in the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the priority  programme for Africa. 1 want to express the warmest congratulations of His  Excellency President Major-General Dr J.S. Momoh, and of the Government and  people of the Republic of Sierra Leone to the Director-General of Unesco,  Mr Federico Mayor, for his persona1 efforts in promoting the welfare of a11  mankind.
16.5 1 also wish to congratulate the three new members of Unesco - the Cook  Islands, Djibouti and the Republic of Kiribati. Their entry into the  international community is a significant reminder that we must a11 join efforts  to improve the welfare of Homo sapiens in the world.
16.6 Mr President, 1 also wish to commend and salute the Government of  France under the sagacious leadership of President Mitterrand for his humane  gesture in relieving the former French colonies of their debt burdens. My  government highly appreciates this move.
16.7 The major programmes dealing with education fully satisfy my government  and we whole-heartedly support the organization of the World Conference on  Education for Al1 in March 1990 in Thailand. We note our Director-General's  concern about recent developments in basic education, especially in the  developing countries, which are characterized by steady stagnation and decline  and which have prompted this bold step to rally the support and interest of  other United Nations agencies, such as UNDP, UNICEF and the World Bank, a major  world conference that would foster a global commitment and mobilize  international and national resources to achieve basic education for all.
16.8 Mr President, the Ministry of Education, Cultural Affairs and Sports,  in collaboration with UNICEF, UNDP, the World Bank and Unesco, recently  organized a national workshop on basic education in Sierra Leone, as part of the  preparatory activities for this World Conference. The results of the workshop
579    and of the national task force should provide useful guidelines for the Bangkok  Conference.
16.9 Mr President, basic education is a major area of concern in our present  effort to restructure our education system in order to provide an education that  will promote a better quality of life for everyone. Here, we lay emphasis on the  UNDP/Unesco-funded project entitled 'The Bunumbu Experience' which seeks to  render primary education in Sierra Leone more attuned to the country's  socio-economic needs in order to make it contribute more effectively to national  development.
16.10 Ii gives me great pleasure to report that the Unesco/UNDP Bunumbu  project, which is mainly concerned with the provision of functional basic  education in the country, is gaining momentum. The support of Unesco in  establishing community education centres in BO, Bombali, Kenema and Port Loko  Districts Will be useful in working towards the eradication of illiteracy which  is estimated at 85 per cent in my country.
16.11 This high incidence of illiteracy is a major limitation on  industrialization and socio-economic development, and we appreciate greatly  Unesco's assistance and support Major Programme Area II. We are especially  gratified with the special emphasis of this programme on ensuring that available  resources Will be allotted to the training of literacy and primary education  personnel.
16.12 We also salute Unesco's efforts in financing, through funds-in-trust,  the project in Sierra Leone for the promotion of literacy and civic education  for women, and we extend our thanks to the Federal Republic of Germany for  providing the funds for this project. We also wish to mention our fervent  support for the regional programme for the eradication of illiteracy in Africa  and the programmes outlined for International Literacy Year in 1990.
16.13 Sierra Leone continues to participate in the Network of Educational  Innovation for Development in Africa (NEIDA) and the Regional Programme for  Training and Research in Educational Planning and Administration (CORFPA/  CORTOM). These programmes aim at strengthening national capacities for planning  and administering education, and at promoting inter-African co-operation in the  development of education in the spirit of technical co-operation among  developing countries. In a11 these programmes, we believe that Unesco's role is  mainly a catalytic one: to encourage and inspire, to provide information and  training and to mobilize a broad movement in a11 parts of the world. Finally,  it remains a major basic responsibility of the Member States concerned to muster  the national political Will, commitment and self-reliance that Will ensure that  every man and woman, every boy and girl in their respective countries, receives  the proper kind of education which Will allow him or her to live a healthy,  useful and dignified life in society.
16.14 Mr President, my delegation welcomes the intensification of the  Organization's activities in the sciences and culture. Development centred on  man for his own self-fulfilment cannot ignore science and culture. Scientific  and technological co-operation are essential and effective ways of serving the  causes of development and peace in the world. We therefore cal1 on Unesco to  take increasing account of the needs of the developing countries in the fields  of science and culture and to halt the massive brain drain from the  underdeveloped to the developed countries in order to generate much needed  employment in the developing countries. We also believe that sustainable  development in the future must include the ability to conserve and manage our  natural resources. Therefore, we support the entire environmental science  programmes as they relate to the welfare of man.
16.15 With regard to Major Programme Area III, the Sierra Leone delegation  would like to express once again its support for the World Decade for Cultural  Development. We are ready to co-operate with Unesco and other Member States in  the promotion and implementation of the Decade. We hold the strong view that  cultural development is an important component of the overall human resources  development scheme, which includes educational, moral, ethical, and cultural  development. We appreciate the fact that the Draft Programme and Budget for
1990-1991, the Draft Medium-Term Plan and Administrative Plan for 1990-1995 cal1  upon Unesco to promote a knowledge of culture and to encourage greater the  awareness and expression of cultural identity.
16.16 Mr President, the task of reporting to the world the true state of  affairs in Sierra Leone, in order to counter some of the malicious, sometimes  hostile news items published by some more established news agencies, is  definitely not an easy one for the struggling Sierra Leone News Agency (SLNA).
16  Under Major Programme Area IV, we therefore welcome the renewed emphasis laid on  the practical development of communication. We acknowledge that the activities  which would be of immediate help to us in the developing countries are the  training of personnel and strengthening of infrastructures as basic steps  towards the realization of a free and more balanced flow of information in the  world. We are impressed by the significant role and progress that the  Intergovernmental Council of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC) has achieved towards this objective, and the efforts of the  Pan African News Agency and WANAD in the region.
16.17 We in Sierra Leone, Mr President, acknowledge the fact that well over
80 per cent of our population lives in the rural areas where the agricultural  belt lies. As the government's priority for the development of its agro-based  economy is laid on the intensification of agricultural productivity, much  emphasis is now placed on agricultural extension services geared towards helping  farmers to adopt modern methods of cultivation to obtain increased yields. In  this connection, the various forms of the media have an essential role to play  in helping communication at a11 levels in rural development projects in mass  mobilization in the spread of ideas. My government has made substantial  investments in the development of its media services in order to develop the  media for communication and development in the rural environment.
16.18 Mr President, please permit me to reaffirm Sierra Leone's determination  to promote and improve the status of women and youth. We believe that women and  youth constitute an integral and progressive part of the population and we  cannot move without them.
16.19 Allow me, Mr President, by way of conclusion to stress that no fields  of activity offer more scope for fruitful co-operation among governments,  institutions and people than those of our Organization. Education, science,  culture and communication are Unesco's security and a future hope essential for  promoting international understanding.
16.20 Finally, let me reiterate my delegation's support for the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, the Draft Medium-Term Plan and the  Administrative Plan for 1990-1995. Mr President, may we a11 achieve consensus  in cultural diversity. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Sierra Leone, and 1 now cal1 on  H.E. Mr Gianni De Michelis, Minister for Foreign Affairs and head of the  delegation of Italy.
18.1 Mr DE MICHELIS (Italy):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, first of  a11 let me express my congratulations to the President on his election. 1 am  convinced that his contribution Will be most significant and valuable, as was  that of the outgoing President. 1 would also like to convey my best wishes to  the three new members of Unesco: Djibouti, Cook Islands and Kiribati.
18.2 1 think we cannot fully define the role of Unesco or its best way of  operating if we do not concentrate on the present characteristics of the  international community. We must meditate on something which appears to me, but  not only to me, as its main feature: the globality of political, social,  economic and cultural phenomena. This very fact, this globality, renders  inadequate the traditional categories of First, Second and Third Worlds. Today,  the world is really one, and only one, within the mutual interaction and  contemporariness of phenomena. It is characterized by what Paul  described as  Valéry  'instant solidarity between regions and events' The factors that  could influence what might occur have been multiplied in every field., Al1 these  phenomena, ranging from debt to environment, beyond aw criterion of  homogeneity, reverberate with one another in a chain of actions and reactions  which seems to extend endlessly.
18.3 Within this framework, old certitudes, old criteria of interpretation,  are no longer valid. On the contrary, 1 am convinced that the future of the  world Will be determined by the predominance of one of two opposing logics. In  order to simplify, let me define these two logics as integration and  disintegration.
18.4 BY integration, 1 mean an ever-increasing 'concertedness' and  collaboration among those subjected to international politics - and 1 refer not  only to States. The foundations for integration must be based on a flexible and  tolerant strategy with special emphasis on multinational institutions.  Integration must find its inspiration in moderation and gradua1 application,
581    otherwise it would become totalitarian and erratic; this is more evident in the  field of culture than anywhere else.
18.5 This new vision of the world is today present both in East-West and in  North-South relations. Let us recall the address of President Gorbachev at the  United Nations in December last year when he renounced the USSR's 'diversity'.  That diversity which had been SO proudly praised during the seven decades  following the October Revolution - and which he replaced by 'the common fate of  mankind', by interdependency across boundary lines, especially ideological  boundaries, among the different regions of the world.
18.6 The fundamental psychological characteristic of the end of this  Century, bringing together East-West and - we hope - North-South, tomorrow more  than ever, is therefore the rejection and the overcoming of totalitarian  ideologies and the renouncement of Utopias which announce the advent of the  sunlit city of tomorrow. We are freeing ourselves from abstract passions, from  political and religious intolerance - a chosen field for useless crusades - in  favour of a world based on the understanding of each other's reasons.
18.7 Hence Unesco, whose duty is to promote collaboration in the sectors of  education, science, culture and communication, must become a principal tool for  integration, within the framework of a strategy for development, the lines of  which are going to be defined in the course of some important meetings of the  United Nations just this year and the next.
18.8 In fact, today, integration also means, above all, co-operation in the  field of science and information. The main difference between natural resources  and those which are a product of technology lies in the fact that the first  ones, unlike the second, are strictly limited.
18.9 Distributing scarce natural resources among individuals and nations is  like a zero sum game, where one wins what others lose. On the other hand, the  production of wealth, through science and technology, is a game in which a11 may  win simultaneously. This is why we must replace rivalry for natural resources by  co-operation in order to produce a new wealth.
18.10 Here lies the paradox of science. While on the one hand, it makes wars  dreadfully destructive, on the other hand it makes obsolete one of the main  reasons for war. My country has always advocated the widest possible access to  the fruits of science and technology, especially for developing countries, SO as  to enable them to participate fully in the most dynamic aspects of the world  economy.
18.11 The process of growth and civil salvation of two thirds of the world  demands the creation - with the contribution of the wealthiest countries - of  conditions necessary to support an autonomous process of development,  increasingly based on cultural values. The essential element of this  development is the concept of integration through science and information.  Therefore, the tools and procedures of Unesco must be updated, taking into  account this perspective of an international society in rapid transformation, in  order to enable it, according to the original mandate of the Organization, to  foster 'peace based on the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind'.
18.12 We believe Unesco is right to identify specifically few but essential  priorities, thus avoiding duplicating the work of other United Nations agencies  and institutions. Instead, it should promote a wider CO-ordination of the  activities of the latter, and with regional organizations not belonging to the  United Nations system, seeking also to mobilize non-governmental organizations.
18.13 if this is done, it Will be easier to avoid the still existing risk of  bureaucratization and at the same time to encourage a more efficient  methodology, and a rationalization and renewal of tools and objectives.
18.14 1 am convinced that the strength of international organizations flows  from the phenomena 1 mentioned at the beginning, such as the globality and  interdependency of human relations. Thus, their universality is also a  requirement for their efficiency; and Italy has always worked for this  condition. Therefore, once more 1 would like to launch an appeal to the United  States, the United Kingdom and Singapore to return to the Organization and to  contribute to its renewal, making the best of the possibilities of the new  international 'climate'.
18.15 1 believe that the report by the Director-General, Federico Mayor,  points in this direction and we agree with it, within the spirit of what 1 have  just said. Furthermore, we hope that the Medium-Term Plan Will be implemented  in a most flexible way - with regular reports concerning its progress.
18.16 Among the various fields of activities in the Medium-Term Plan, 1 would  like to refer to education, scientific co-operation, information and culture.
18.17 We cari only share the idea of considering as an essential part of  development the promotion of human capital, along the lines which have been the  bases for Italy's co-operation for development.
18.18 Within this spirit, the first step should be the reduction of  illiteracy - since to speak of eradication of illiteracy would only be misguided  triumphalism.
18.19 It is equally important for this social promotion to entai1 not only  permanent education for a11 ages, but also professional training, SO as to link  the world of school and the world of labour; as well as the social integration  made necessary by the growing flow of immigrants currently present in Europe,  and alS0 in other parts of the world, at disquieting levels.
18.20 As 1 have pointed out, scientific co-operation is the nucleus of global  integration. The results of research undertaken by a nation or by a region of  the world today constitute significant capital for the transformation of our  societies. Let us think of the place of science-based industry, which has  increased over the years; today the process is accelerating as the time between  scientific research and its implementation in production shortens. This is why  integration is the winning tard, both because it is the only way to concentrate  adequate resources and because it is the best instrument to check the quality of  the results.
18.21 As far as communication and information are concerned, 1 think these  could not find a better place within Unesco's programme. In relation to  development, information Will be the main raw material of progress, as was the  case with oil for industrial civilization. 1 therefore deem it even more  important to update the concept of a new international communication and  information order, overcoming the past definition. 1 am convinced that it Will  be possible, and even in the interest of all, to discover solutions which both  protect the fundamental principle of the freedom of information flow, and  provide assistance to countries possessing fewer technical and financial  resources. The aim would be to have their voices better heard in the  international arena and to increase information pluralism, SO that communication  may enhance a11 possibilities of dialogue and integration.
18.22 the  CommunicatYon d$~C> is  International Programme for the Development of  going in that direction. Within the free f.low of  information, press freedom, especially in the era of electronic communications,  still stands as an indispensable instrument for progress and civic coexistence.
1 consequently think that Unesco is the right place to recall its value.
18.23 Finally, as the representative of a country where some of the most  significant elements of the cultural heritage of humanity are concentrated, 1  cannot avoid mentioning the cultural function - and not only the cultural but  also the economic function - of the material fruits of human creativity  generation after generation. For cultural goods there are problems of  classification, preservation and access. On this matter, 1 would like to say a  few words about the most recent Italian experiences regarding a programme for  the exploitation of 'cultural layers'. This initiative concerns the  classification of cultural goods and the training of the personnel needed for  their management. For the moment, these projects are limited in number, but  rove in a11 fields of our cultural heritage. These initiatives Will enable us  to make a full inventory of our cultural goods and create a data bank, thus  allowing us to control - especially in view of the creation of the single  European Market after 1992 - the movements of our cultural goods and to prevent  the risk of dispersion. 1 believe that this ongoing experience may produce  indications useful also for other countries.
18.24 The conservation of cultural heritage has also other aspects - further  token of today's world interdependencies - starting from the environment. The  risks of deterioration of atmosphere, water and soi1 and its consequences have  contributed to increased awareness in many countries concerning their ecological  balance.
18.25 In conclusion, we must note once more that the objectives of Unesco are  consistent with widespread aspirations to development to welfare, to pluralism,  to peaceful and fruitful coexistence of different cultural orientations. This is  one more reason for us to follow closely its activities, which we would like to  be always up to the importance of these objectives. Mr President,
583    Mr Director-General, 1 cari assure you that my country, Italy, Will work in that  direction. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Italy. Now we shall adjourn for  lunch, and meet again at 3 p.m. Thank you.  La séance est levée à 12 h.30  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesidn a las 12.30