Vingt-quatrième séance plénière
2 novembre 1989, a 15 h 10  Prksident : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  Twenty-fourth plenary meeting
2 won6pn 1989 r. a 15.10  Ilpencenaïens: r-H AHBAP EIBPAlXM (Manafwa)
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, the twenty-fourth plenary meeting  is called to order. This afternoon we shall deal with agenda item 4.3 - Adoption  of the provisional budget ceiling for 1990-1991. The documents are as follows:
25 C/5 and Rev.1 and Rev.2, 25 C/6 and Add. and Add. & Corr., 25 C/ADM/DR.a  Rev., and 25 C/131. 1 shall first give the floor to the Chairman of the  Executive Board, Mr Vargas; next to the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, Mr Dumont; and then the Director-General, before 1 open the debate.
1 now cal1 on the Chairman of the Executive Board.
2.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, please  allow me to introduce in a few words the recommendations of the Executive Board  on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 contained in document 25 C/6. As  is customary, Mr President, the Executive Board formulated its recommendations  in two distinct stages. Firstly, at its 131st session, it examined in detail the  proposals made by the Director-General in document 25 C/5 from a programme point  of view and their budgetary implications. At the close of this very intensive  review, the Executive Board decided - and 1 quote from 131 EX/Decision 4.2 - to  submit the Draft Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 for examination by the  General Conference, with its favourable recommendation, subject to the final  recommendations to be made at its 132nd session. Secondly, at its 132nd session,  having examined the revised figures proposed by the Director-General in 25 C/5  Rev.1, the Executive Board adopted 132 EX/Decision 4.1, which is quoted b  extenso in document 25 C/6 Add. b Corr. before you and which is self-explanatory.
2.2 1 should finally stress, Mr President, that those recommendations of  the Board are based on a thorough examination by its Finance and Administrative  Commission, under the able chairmanship of Mr Thiam, of the Director-General's  proposals in document 25 C/5. And now, of course, you are going to deal with the  recommendations of the Administrative Commission of the General Conference  itself. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Vargas, 1 now give the floor to Mr Dumont, Chairman of  the Administrative Commission.
4.1 M. DUMONT (Belgique), Président de la Commission administrative :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, au  moment où la Conférence générale aborde la discussion et l'adoption du plafond  budgétaire provisoire pour 1990-1991, j'ai le plaisir de vous présenter les  recommandations pertinentes de la Commission administrative qui sont reproduites  dans le document 25 C/l31 que chacun a entre les mains.
4.2 Je voudrais indiquer tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, qu'il n'ap-  partenait pas à la Commission administrative de fixer le niveau du plafond bud-  gétaire en tant que tel. Toutefois, il incombait à la Commission d'examiner les  techniques budgétaires utilisées par le Directeur général dans la préparation du  budget et leur conformité aux normes préconisées par le Conseil exécutif. Cet  examen a révélé que les techniques effectivement mises en oeuvre, notamment en  ce qui concerne la réévaluation de la base budgétaire et le traitement des aug-  mentations prévisibles des coûts du budget et des ajustements monétaires (res-  pectivement au titre VII et au titre VIII), ont été strictement conformes à  celles qui avaient été approuvées à plusieurs reprises par le Conseil exécutif.
4.3 Monsieur le Président, les débats de la Commission administrative se  sont concentrés sur certains aspects du budget relevant de ses propres domaines  de compétence. C'est ainsi que la Commission a pris la décision, en rappelant  les économies obligatoires de 7,5 millions de dollars devant être faites à l'in-  térieur du budget pour rembourser le Fonds de roulement et les "recettes  diverses" comme décidé précédemment, de recommander à la Conférence générale,  d'ajouter au plafond budgétaire provisoire de 370.670.000 dollars tel qu'il res-  sort du document 25 C/5 Rev.2, un montant supplémentaire de 10.278.000 dollars  dont 10.200.000 dollars au titre VII et 78.000 dollars au titre VIII du budget,  ceci afin de pouvoir financer des augmentations éventuelles de coûts découlant
758    d'une possible augmentation des traitements du personnel du cadre organique et  de rang supérieur. Cet ajout au budget sera fait à titre provisoire en attendant  la décision de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies sur ce sujet. Il reste  évidemment entendu que les contributions des Etats membres ne seront définitive-  ment fixées qu'une fois la décision de cette Assemblée prise et en fonction de  la décision elle-même.
4.4 Par ailleurs, la Commission a décidé de recommander que le montant sup-  plémentaire de 1.600.000 dollars requis pour la Caisse d'assurance-maladie soit  absorbé à l'intérieur du budget, ce qui porterait en fait le montant des écono-  mies obligatoires à 9,l millions de dollars.
4.5 En outre, la Commission a décidé de recommander la suspension de la  Réserve pour projets de résolution.
4.6 Je voudrais conclure, Monsieur le Président, en signalant que la Com-  mission n'était pas mandatée pour examiner le renforcement budgétaire et le  financement des projets de résolution. Une décision sur ces deux sujets sera  prise lors de la fixation du plafond budgétaire définitif au cours de la réunion  conjointe de la Commission administrative et des Commissions de programme. En  conséquence, le projet de résolution proposé dans le document 25 C/l31 nous  paraît tout à fait conforme aux résultats des décisions de la Commission. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Dumont. 1 now give the floor to the Director-General.
6.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, the decision the General Conference Will take in a few  moments on the provisional budget ceiling is of particular importance. It  represents in fact the first step towards the vote on the final budget ceiling  for 1990-1991.
6.2 The vote on the provisional budget ceiling is based on four major  elements: the views and observations concerning document 25 C/5 expressed by  Member States during the general policy debate which has just ended; the  recommendations of the Administrative Commission of the General Conference which  have just been submitted to YOU through its Chairman, Mr Dumont; the  recommendations of the Executive Board which were introduced by Mr Vargas a  moment ago; and finally the proposals of the Director-General.
6.3 Let me underline at the outset that I am very pleased with the  generally positive views voiced by the governing organs of Unesco with respect  to my budget proposals. Taken by themselves, statements made during the general  policy debate on the question of budgetary reinforcement show that eight Member  States came out clearly in favour of such reinforcement while seven spoke  against it. The issue is open, and 1 hope that we may be witnessing a trend  which Will at least lead us away from the fictitious 'zero growth' which has  dominated the Organization for far too long, being as it was - in real terms -  negative growth.
6.4 The General Conference itself Will finally have to take a decision on  this crucial matter at the close of its twenty-fifth session on the basis of the  recommendation of the Joint Meeting of the Programme Commissions and the  Administrative Commission. It is also up to that meeting to make a  reconunendation on the financing of any draft resolutions submitted by Member  States that may be recommended by the commissions for adoption, and on budgetary  reinforcement. The Executive Board and the Administrative Commission are of the  same opinion and have recommended that this decision be taken by plenary at the  close of the Conference.
6.5 The Administrative Commission has made two particularly important  recommendations: firstly, that the salary increases should be provided for in  Part VII of the budget, which is in fact the budget provision for this type of  anticipated cost increases; and secondly, as Mr Dumont said a moment ago, that  the necessary increase in the Medical Benefits Fund should be absorbed through  savings. Mr President, as 1 have already emphasized this morning, if endorsed by  plenary this latter recommendation Will result in an increase of the debts of  the past to almost $10 million. In other words, no programme voted by the  General Conference cari be fully implemented as each of them Will have to be  reduced by its share of the debt. It Will be unrealistic to believe that an  amount of almost $10 million cari be saved without affecting programme substance.
1 for my part hope that the Conference Will finally vote a realistic budget  which is commensurate with the ambitious programmes submitted in document 25 (75.
6.6 Be that as it may, with the exception of the question of the financing  'of the increase in the contribution to the Medical Benefits Fund, on which 1  have reservations, the proposed decision in the document before you reflects the  agreement of a11 concerned.
6.7 It is with these remarks that 1 submit the decision on the provisional  budget ceiling contained in paragraph 5 of document 25 C/l31 for the approval of  the General Conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. As you have heard from the Chairman of  -the Executive Board, the Chairman of the Administrative Commission and the  Director-General, there have been very long deliberations on the subject.  Apparently a compromise has been reached which takes into account the  recommendations of the Executive Board and the views expressed in the  Administrative Commission. There is now a proposa1 before you, a culmination of  a11 the points that have been presented, in paragraph 5 of document 25 C/131. 1  Will read out to you the draft resolution that was considered this morning by  the General Committee, which recommended that it be presented to the General  .Conference at its plenary meeting this afternoon. Now this draft resolution is  based on the Director-General's proposa1 in document 25 C/5 Rev.2, which takes  into account - 1 repeat - the recommendations of the Executive Board and the  Administrative Commission. It reads as follows:  'The General Conference,
1. Decides that the provisional budqet ceilinq for 1990-1991 shall be  $380,948,000, including on a provisional basis an amount of  $10,200,000 under Part VII and of $78,000 under Part VIII,  respectively;
2. Recommends that, when the final budoet ceilinq is being fixed by  the Joint Meeting of the Programme Commissions and the  Administrative Commission, decisions be taken on the following:
7.2  (i) the budgetary reinforcement foreseen in document 25 C/~I;  (ii) the draft resolutions submitted by Member States.'
(8.1) Mr ORTIZ CHALBAUD (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to the draft resolution  submitted to us on page 4 of document 25 C/131, Venezuela could not agree to the  provisional budget ceiling for 1990-1991. Our Minister of Education has already  indicated that, on account of economic difficulties, we view the prospect of an  increased financial commitment to Unesco with great concsrn. We think that Member  States which are in a position of greater solvency cari also assume greater relative  responsibility for financing the activities that concern a11 of us in the  Organization.
(8.2) Mr President, the $380 million figure submitted to us includes $10,278,000  to caver anticipated increases in salaries and allowances for staff in the  Professional category and above. For that reason, Mr President, given the situation  in our country, Venezuela could not support this proposal.
(8.3) In any case, Mr President, we wish to ses that amount absorbed in the  budget base. The $370 million figure suggested by the Executive Board already  involved a substantial increase.
(8.4) We are agreed that zero growth should include an increase, but such an  increase cannot be flexible to the extent that the figures keep rising by the month.  We think, Mr President, that the Organization should improve staff management and  identify interna1 duplication and unnecessary administrative procedures within the  Organization. The 58.5 per cent figure for anticipated staff costs given in  paragraph 30 of the Introduction to document 25 C/5 leads us to believe that such a  reduction is possible and that economies should be made in the share of staff costs.
(8.5) In regard to the $1,600,000 figure, Mr President, we are also in favour of  absorption. Mr President, with regard to budgetary reinforcement, we and many other  States from our Latin American region made an appeal for States in a position to do  SO to make additional voluntary contributions.
(8.6) On the subject of the draft resolutions submitted by Member States to this  General Conference, we proposed alternatives to caver increases through the  Participation Programme or extra-budgetary resources. Consequently, Mr President, if  the $380 million budget ceiling is approved, we must request that our reservation in  regard to the approval of that amount appear in the records of the General  Conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Venezuela. 1 understand that he is certainly  not suggesting that a vote be taken, because not only has what is before us been  recommended by the Executive Board; the Administrative Commission has also dealt  with the question and the General Committee has produced a compromise formula.  You are of course at liberty to express your views, but 1 need to be told  whether or not you are making reservations for the record or alternatively what  you are recommending. But anyway 1 now give the floor to Mr Rao of India.
10.1 Mr RAO (India) :  Thank you, Mr President. Before the distinguished delegate of Venezuela  asked for the floor, 1 was going to say that there seems to be a meeting of  minds between a11 the organs of the General Conference. The recommendation of  the Bureau of the General Conference this morning, the statement of the  distinguished Chairman of the Administrative Commission, the statement of the  distinguished Chairman of the Executive Board and the policy statement of the  Director-General this morning have a11 helped matters and 1 was hoping that we  could adopt the draft resolution, which has two paragraphs, by near unanimity.  And 1 must say that 1 understood the statement of the distinguished delegate of  Venezuela as a statement to be put in the records of this meeting and that he  was not really asking for a separate vote. Perhaps it may help if we recall that  there is a paragraph 6 in paragraph 3 of document 25 C/l31 which says 'Invites  Member States to make voluntary contributions complementary to priority  activities under the regular programme'. Now this was a compromise formula which
761    we introduced when the Executive Board was reaching consensus. It could easily  be picked up and used as a new paragraph 3 either now or on 14 November when the  final budget vote is taken.
10.2 Mr President, 1 was particularly glad to hear the Director-General  stress this morning one point, namely that if, at the end of the Programme  Commissions' discussions which are now proceeding - of which two have almost  completed their work and three are still deliberating - any amount is to be  reinforced in order to avoid negative growth, it Will be primarily for priority  programme activities. 1 think this is a very positive statement and in the  light of that statement, Mr President, 1 hope the Conference Will be in a  position to adopt the resolution today almost unanimously.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Rao, for alerting us to the point that this is a  provisional budget ceiling which needs to be confirmed again, if possible by  consensus or by unanimous vote. Of course, Member States cari express their  reservations for us to take note of, as was the case of Venezuela. The delegate  of Yugoslavia has the floor.
12. M. PAVLOVIC (Yougoslavie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président, de me donner la parole. Lors de la der-  nière session de la Conférence générale, nous nous sommes prononcés contre  l'augmentation du budget de l'Organisation et nous avons expliqué les raisons de  notre position. Cette position de la délégation yougoslave n'est pas en contra-  diction avec son attachement notoire à l'unesco, à ses idéaux et à ses objec-  tifs ; elle se base sur le fait que les contributions au budget de l'Organisation  doivent être considérées également dans le contexte de la solvabilité des Etats  membres, notamment de ceux qui figurent sur la liste des pays surendettés. Notre  délégué à la Commission administrative a fait un exposé plus détaillé des motifs  de notre position et je ne vais pas répéter ce qui est déjà connu. Je pense que  les explications qui ont été fournies par le délégué du Venezuela pourraient,  dans une très large mesure, s'appliquer à la situation de mon pays ; naturelle-  ment, je suis d'accord avec ses observations. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le  Président.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Yugoslavia. 1 believe that as Venezuela has  voiced concerns that are shared by other Member States, 1 should remind you that  the draft resolution before us indicates not only that the final budget ceiling  Will be fixed by the Joint Meeting of the Programme Commissions and the  Administrative Commission but that decisions Will  resolutions submitted by Member States. Now are there  subject?
13.2 1 see no objections. The draft resolution is  you.
13.3 The Director-General has asked for the floor.
(14.1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, just a few words concerning the statement by the  distinguished delegate of Venezuela, endorsed by the distinguished representative of  Yugoslavia. With a11 due respect for the arguments they put forward, on which the  Director-General naturally has no comment to make, 1 should like them to be SO kind  as to reconsider their position regarding the budget for staff costs. Ever since 1  first took office, 1 have made a point of giving you a11 available data on the  subject as part of the information provided at each Executive Board session. In  doing SO, 1 have stated exactly what proportion of the budget goes on the staff,  while making a careful distinction, as 1 pointed out this morning, between the  percentages corresponding to administration and direction and those set aside for  programme activities. It was for that reason that in the Introduction to document
25 C/5 1 also indicated - 1 believe very clearly, since 1 gave a11 the necessary  figures - what the relative percentages are at present and how they are expected to  evolve.
(14.2) Mr President, 1 am the first to acknowledge that there is considerable room  for improvement in the part concerning administrative costs, but 1 appeal - with the  insistence warranted by the need to keep up this Organization’s work and in a11  fairness to the members of its staff, who carry out their tasks in examplary  fashion, both at Headquarters and in the field offices and units - to a11  representatives of Member States that, when they corne to speak about staff costs,  they kindly separate administrative costs from programme costs. 1 must remind you  that most of the requests you make of me, that is to say 72 per cent, are requests  involving action by staff members, specialists, fact-finding missions, etc. 1 would  consequently ask that, for the sake of our Organization’s dignity, its image as a  great bureaucratie machine may gradually corne to be seen in the proper perspective.
1 do emphasize that there are many improvements we cari make, but let it not be said  that we are currently spending on staff amounts of money that bear no relation  whatsoever to reality, since, as you know, only 17.8 per cent of the figure  mentioned by the distinguished representative of Venezuela correspond in fact to  administrative costs; the remainder pertains to programme costs, as 1 tried to  explain to you this morning in my statement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
15. The PRESIDENT:  The debate on the subject is now closed, the resolution having been  adopted. The next plenary meeting Will take place on 8 November at 3 p.m. The  meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 15 h.45  The meeting rose at 3.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 15.45  %lCCnaHEïC 3aKpbIBaCTCX B 15.45  &LJl * Y,to LWI p LLII c”J