Septième séance plénière
18 octobre 1991, à 10 h.40  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  puis : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. HERRERA (Costa Rica)  Seventh plenary meeting
3aTeM: r-H OroT (Kerms)
1991 ZF10B ISH 108$ 4047  FRE: RME AA (BIT)  MiG: BREE (FRE)  Mia: RENE CERERM)
217   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXIIEHHE BOITPOCOB OBILEH MOJNHTHKH (npoxonxenne)  (gs 15) Talal! Alu dl LIL  Fuad yl  Gdyue (iSl y A AUS ih ia Lanïos plail p05ll cu3Sa Jl3o ¥ pSabue AI and coldly las!  in I Bl gasp aby punts Blinn ob Las UF 5455 pad ge dad] seal Laloall Loddadl aia Joue Tas  gd 5 LAS SGI dud]
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Even though the General Committee of the General Conference is  still sitting, we shall start the business of this moming's meeting. I now invite H.E. Mr Molomo, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Botswana at this session, to take the floor on behalf of Botswana.
2.1 Mr MOLOMO (Botswana):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me, Mr President, to offer sincere congratulations, on behalf of the  Botswana delegation and on my own behalf, to Mr Ogot on his election to the presidency of the twenty-sixth  session of the UNESCO General Conference. He has demonstrated over the last three days a wealth of patience  and wisdom in the conduct of the business of this august assembly.
2.2 Permit me to take this opportunity to convey to the Director-General special greetings from my  government; and to the General Conference the warmest greetings of the Government and people of Botswana.  It is now over ten years since Botswana became a Member State. 1990 was a landmark in the intensification of  our valued association with the Organization and it is my ardent hope that our relationship with UNESCO  and - through it - with other Member States will grow from strength to strength.
2.3 Mr President, UNESCO has much to its credit, and the Government of the Republic of Botswana  wishes to reaffirm its commitment to its ideals and goals, The Organization must be commended for its  continued role in nurturing international dialogue between peoples in the areas of education, culture,  communication, and the natural and human sciences.
24 I wish now Sir, to address myself to the basic purpose of the session, the examination and approval of  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993. Document 26 C/5 which we have before us bears testimony to  lard work and thought. It is also a product of frank consultation and constructive dialogue between the  Director-General, the Executive Board and Member States. It no doubt reflects the consensus of the  international community. My government has studied the draft programme and budget with the diligence it  deserves, being the second phase of the implementation of the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995). Its thrust  towards clarity in identifying priorities within each major programme area demonstrates the Organization's  continued attempt to respond to concerns which Member States consider most relevant. The third Medium-  Term Plan was embarked upon with restricted financial and manpower ceilings and this is as well noticeable in  document 26 C/5, a clear indication that the constraints of limited resources which faced the Organization at  tbe adoption of the Medium-Term Plan have not been climinated.
2.5 Mr President, the Government of the Republic of Botswana is pleased to associate itself with the good  intentions and goals of document 26 C/5. For us the document entails food for thought as it coincides with  Botswana's adoption of the National Development Plan 7 (NDP 7) which the Botswana Parliament adopted  cxactly two-and-a-half months ago. Likewise our plan is characterized by a choice of strict and stringent  priorities dictated to us by the less favourable economic performance which is likely to stay with us for the  better part of the 1990s. Our economy is estimated to grow by only 6 per cent between now and 1997. This is a  matter of particular concern because we indeed need to consolidate further our programmes in education,  culture, the sciences and human resources development which we initiated with great vigour during our sixth  National Development Plan.
2.6 It is unfortunate that while our expectations of what the Organization can do to complement our global  efforts to meet some of the greatest challenges in improving the welfare of humanity are increasing, its
218   financial capabilities are diminishing further. The greatest challenges facing humanity are the advancement of  technological and scientific progress, the provision of universal and quality education to our people, and the  provision of national capabilities to cope with ever-increasing socio-economic demands for a better and  guaranteed future for the child, the youth and the adult.
2.7 Allow me now, Mr President, to address myself to specific programmes of the Organization, as laid  down in document 26 C/5, with particular emphasis on education. Education remains the major element of  UNESCO's raison d'être; and as far as education is concerned, my delegation notes with keen interest the  thrusts of Major Programme Area I (Education and the future). It is through this programme that human  resources development will forge ahead and facilitate other development. This is desirable because a human  being is both the object and subject of development of whatever description.
2.8 It is noted with approval that priority is being given to the promotion of literacy for youth and adults  through the Mobilizing Project - Combating illiteracy. My country hopes to continue to benefit from all  programmes geared towards the eradication of illiteracy, as it is faced with an illiteracy rate of 26.3 per cent  and is working at achieving universal literacy or at least reaching a world literacy rate target of 23.6 per cent.  My country is also committed to achieving universal access to primary education, our access to primary  education currently stands at 90 per cent.
2.9 In that vein, we therefore endorse the spirit and initiatives of the two major events in 1990, the  International Literacy Year and the World Conference on Education for All, at which the world community  adopted the World Declaration on Education for All.
2.10 Mr President, my delegation is greatly encouraged by the fact that our priorities in education as laid  down in the "Education and manpower’ chapter of our National Development Plan 7 are in concurrence with the  priorities of UNESCO as laid down in Major Programme Area I. Our priorities in education are: pursuit of the  goal of universal access to 9-year basic education; improvement of the quality of education generally; increased  access to vocational education; expansion of higher education; and expansion of non-formal and distance  cducation.
2.11 My delegation wishes to call particular attention to Subprogramme L.2.1 (Renewal of educational  content and methods), which is of special interest to Botswana. This programme which aims at improving  technical and vocational education and at encouraging an increased interaction between education and the  world of work requires serious and immediate mobilization; more especially when considering the fact that  many developing countries are in dire need of skilled manpower. For example, in Botswana the projections  indicate that our economy will require at least 27,600 skilled personnel, from artisans to degree holders and  specialists, over the next 6 years,
2.12 It is important that we, as an Organization, work harder at developing equal status between academic  and vocational education and encouraging young people to look at the alternatives to higher education with  cqual enthusiasm. This may be achieved by introducing qualification which would give real and substantive  incentives to students to undertake vocational education and training to the maximum of their ability. It is with  this in mind that Botswana wishes to be among the beneficiaries of the projects to be funded from extra-  budgetary resources foreseen under paragraphs 01211 and 01213. One of the major activities we foresee is the  re-examination and review of the national education structure in order to give increased priority to vocational  education and training.
2.13 I would also like to make a comment on higher education. My delegation fully supports the objectives  of higher education under Subprogramme 1.2.2. The achievement of the relevance and efficiency of higher  education institutions lies with the universities’ ability to live up to our expectations as places of innovation and  excellence necessary for the development of leadership and productivity qualities.
2.14 The complex problems that continue to impede our collective endeavour to achieve regional  development and lack of progression in some strategic sectors in Africa may be attributed to the region's  limitation of its ability to develop its human resources, sometimes its inability to utilize them maximally.
2.15 Mr President, under Major Programme Area II (Science for progress and the environment), my  delegation welcomes the emphasis laid on developing awareness of global environmental issues and the  relationship between environment and development. The current scientific findings about the thinning of the
219   ozone layer and the continuing degradation and destruction of flora and fauna, especially in sub-Saharan  Africa, are causes for concern. We would like to urge UNESCO and the United Nations Environment  Programme (UNEP) to intensify their efforts in fostering concerted action for global conservation, and  developing regional capabilities for rational natural resources management.
2.16 Education is one such means through which we can mitigate the effects of environmental problems,  and in Botswana efforts are being made to develop positive attitudes towards environmental management and  conservation. Examples of these are the commissioning in 1990 of the National Conservation Strategy by  H.E. the President of the Republic of Botswana, H.E. Dr Quett Masire, and education about the importance of  environmental conservation through seminars such as the National Environmental Education Conference held  a week ago in Gaborone. The Conference was attended also by leading conservationist groups like the Kalahari  Conservation Society and Greenpeace International. This Conference came up with interesting and rational  proposals on the development of a comprehensive environmental education curriculum,
2.17 We welcome the objectives of Subprogramme 11.1.1, which aims to develop national and regional  capabilities in the teaching of science and technology. There is need, however, to pay particular attention to  ensuring that access to and continuity with the sciences for female students and scientists is achieved.
2.18 Mr President, on culture, my delegation believes it is important to give priority to encouraging the  acknowledgement that culture has greater influence on national development. We in Botswana have  demonstrated this in our National Development Plan 7. We therefore wholly support the continuing global  efforts to this end through the World Decade for Cultural Development.
2.19 We in Africa are appreciative of the fact that the "Iron Road' in Africa has been taken up as one of  UNESCO's programme actions. The discovery of iron in Africa had a great deal of influence on the cultural,  social, economic and political situation and was catalytic also in a series of encounters between different  cultures in sub-Saharan Africa and other worlds. Allow me to pay special tribute to Mozambique for providing  optimum leadership in the development of a comprehensive and concrete project proposal for which we hope to  obtain adequate resources both within and outside UNESCO.
2.20 Mr President, it is my pleasure today to place on record our sincere thanks for the continued support  offered to Botswana under Major Programme Area IV (Communication in the service of humanity). My  government appreciates the efforts made by UNESCO through the South East News Agency Development  project (SEANAD) to support journalism training in Botswana. By improving the standard of journalism,  UNESCO is supporting the public right to know. We are therefore optimistic that when the decision is made  after your review and appraisal, there will be continued support for journalism training which my country  greatly values since training is a continuous process. The Botswana Press Agency (BOPA) was affiliated to the  SEANAD programme some nine years ago. During that period, the relationship has been mutually rewarding;  and indeed there has been a remarkable improvement in the performance of our reporters since they were  exposed to the rigorous training programmes sponsored and run by UNESCO.
2.21 — At its annual meeting in Paris this year under the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC), UNESCO approved a project proposal from Botswana to fund the computerization of  the News and Current Affairs section of the Department of Information and Broadcasting. This project totalling  US $90,000 has been successfully completed and as a result our capacity to participate in the international  communication process has been greatly enhanced.
2.22 Mr President, Botswana has studied the Executive Board document on decentralization with keen  interest. In dealing with this subject, we have first of all to determine the situation within which the policies  and strategies are likely to be operative. For instance, we should understand whether decentralization of  UNESCO would mean improving on the performance of the existing resources and units or establishing further  units away from Headquarters. Mr President, in the interest of flexibility, cost-effectiveness and efficient  productivity we should opt for the former. Already UNESCO has numerous bases and units in all the five  regions. What is necessary, therefore, is to improve their functions and efficiency. One strategy would be to  give them adequate authority to match the high-powered representation which they are already enjoying. They  nced the authority to make decisions determined by the needs and situations of the regions within which they  operate. This would ensure that regional bases are responsive and relevant to the Member States’ needs. There  is need also to model our decentralization along the lines of UNDP and UNICEF. I am led to believe these  organizations' operations and functional structures are worth consideration.
2.23  Lastly, Mr President, coming to international matters, my delegation is greatly encouraged by the  changes in the political climate in southern Africa since the last General Conference. The independence of  Namibia, the move towards peace in Angola and Mozambique, the unbanning of the African National Congress  (ANC), and other liberation movements and political parties, the return of South African exiles and the  commitment by both the ANC and the South African regime to a negotiated settlement which would hopefully  lead to a democratic South Africa, are some of the commendable political achievements in southern Africa. We  would however like to urge the international community to maintain its pressure on South Africa until majority  rule is achieved in that country.
2.24 Finally, Botswana wishes to encourage those currently engaged in concrete moves towards democracy,  and we hope that they will achieve their goals with minimum threat to international peace, and peace within  their individual sovereign States. Thank you.  Found y  AIT Rogue y Lui si A GAIN 3 pin JL Saud sel Vy Ullal ss diy gui 0 dja 15  LAS YA I aig Gund; TAL gS pad (gud Laud)
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of Botswana and now invite H.E. Ms Manalo, Ambassadress of the  Philippines to France, permanent delegate of the Philippines to UNESCO and deputy head of the delegation of  the Philippines, to take the floor.
4.1 Ms MANALO (Philippines):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Exceilencies, members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, the Philippine delegation shares the sentiments of other delegations in  offering to Mr Ogot congratulations for the honour and faith accorded him to preside over the deliberations of  the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We express confidence that, with all your  distinguished credentials, you will steer this Conference towards achieving its goals and objectives. I wish to  take this opportunity to convey to all delegations and to all officials of this Conference, the greetings of  H.E. President Corazon C. Aquino and of the people of the Republic of the Philippines.
4.2 Mr President, Sir, the twenty-sixth UNESCO General Conference meets today against a background of  major historical changes. We have entered the post-Cold War era where confrontation between ideological  blocs is replaced by co-operation. A new world order is indeed shaping up, based on a better respect for  international law. But while peace dividends are coming about, new concerns of different dimensions are taking  centre stage. Among these are problems caused by ethnic strife, the considerable indifference to social  aspirations by people, religious intransigence and intolerance to different values and beliefs. All these new  dangers need to be seriously observed and studied lest they develop into conflicts in some or all societies.  UNESCO's competences do have a very significant role to play in restraining or containing these new risks,  particularly through the assertion by this noble Organization of its ethics and morals on these concerns.
4.3 Mr President, although there are now new prospects for peace and development, the world continues to  be confronted by the problem of illiteracy and ignorance. Education must play a key role in development. We  need not overemphasize further that a well-educated and an appropriately trained population are the strongest  backbone of an economically prosperous society.
4.4 The Philippines has a blueprint for national survival, containing the most urgent of priorities for  ensuring the full and uninterrupted development of our country's most important resource - its people. This,  Mr President, is the Philippine Plan of Action for Education for All (EFA) which has been proclaimed by no  less than H.E. President Corazon C. Aquino on 16 October 1989. After the formulation of the EFA framework,  which served as the basis for the development of the programmes and projects, a national plan of action has  now been put together in response to the call for total war on poverty and the quest for peace and sustainable  development. It is a commitment that basic educational needs will be met by focusing on four major  development areas: first, the institutionalization of early childhood care and development; second, the  universalization of quality basic education; third, the eradication of illiteracy; and fourth, continuing education  for adults and out-of-school youth.
4.5 In the Philippines, as in similar debt-ridden Third World countries, the past decades have witnessed  great difficulties in making education relevant to the call for the alleviation of poverty and authentic
221   development. Education is a strong force for narrowing the gap between a society's rich and poor peoples. The  education of a nation is the vehicle that brings forth ample opportunities for advancement by endowing its  people not only with knowledge and skills but also with proper attitudes and values, thus facilitating upward  social mobility. An enlightened citizenry as fully acquainted as possible with the entire range of the social,  natural and behavioural sciences and the humanities creates a society of civilized human beings.
4.6 Today one of the primary concerns of the Philippine Department of Education, Culture and Sports is  the development of skills to prepare men and women for a decent life but just as important is the development  and revival of old values, traditions and customs as practised by past generations. We emphasize discipline,  industry, punctuality, courtesy and respect for elders, modesty among women, humility in our men. We want a  return to the revered and timeless basics and to practices that will constitute a stable anchor for developing a  strong moral fibre to combat prohibited drugs, immorality and violence in many societies. We want to inculcate  among our young people appreciation of our heritage and pride in our national identity and we remind our  students that there is no reason in this world {or Filipinos to be otherwise.
4.7 Science and technology is a priority agenda in the Philippine Medium-Term Development Plan. It is a  major concern in a Third World country like the Philippines to support national efforts to attain socio-economic  growth and development. A focus on the environment will constantly remind us that technology will exact a  heavy toll whenever ecological and natural laws are wantonly disregarded. We cannot ignore the irreversible  damage to the environment caused by natural disasters. You are well aware that in the last 15 months the  Philippines has been ravaged by a violent quake, a super typhoon, a long drought, and very recently, the worst  volcanic eruption experienced by our country in the last 600 years. Mt. Pinatubo's fury has rendered barren the  once prosperous and fertile regions in the heart of the island of Luzon. Hundreds of thousands of our  countrymen have been rendered homeless and displaced. The Philippines is now engaged in a gigantic  rehabilitation scheme for the victims of this eruption which includes, among other things, the resettlement of  the victims. Of special concern is the displacement of the native tribal people, known as the 'Aetas’, who  comprise 10 per cent of the total evacuee population. This tribal people needs to be provided with a transitional  mechanism to protect it from psychological and physical destruction as they move to a new environment within  the general framework of rural development. UNESCO's role becomes indispensable in this instance.
4.8 The Philippines is therefore submitting to this Conference a draft resolution No. 82 entitled Natural  Disaster Reduction under Major Programme Area II (Science for progress and the environment). The resolution  urges that consideration be given to natural disasters in the existing and approved UNESCO programme and  that inter-sectoral and inter-agency co-ordination, particularly among institutions of the United Nations system,  intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, and the international scientific community, should be  strengthened. The Philippines thanks the various Member States of UNESCO who have shown great interest in  co-operating with this programme, particularly in the preparation of training materials for disaster control  reduction. We welcome co-sponsors for this resolution.
4.9 Mention is made in this Conference of a scheme for the acquisition of technology. However, it is not  enough to bring foreign technology into a country. If this imported know-how is to be used effectively, it is  indispensable that it enhances and develops local capabilities and is adaptable to existing indigenous local  resources and native materials. This acquisition and adaptability requires the strengthening of our education in  the areas of science, mathematics and technology. This is one of the areas in which the Philippines needs  assistance from UNESCO.
4.10 As has been noted both by the Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board in their  remarks before the 137th session of the Executive Board, the 'dramatic changes on the international scene  reaffirm the need for strengthening education, science, culture and communications. The shift towards  democracy that has occurred in several countries has not gone unattended by birth pains - cultural and religious  differences continue to irritate human relations and provoke civil strife and bitter conflicts the world over’. In  this light, the twofold aim of the Plan of Action of the World Decade for Cultural Development assumes even  more relevance: to revitalize the notion of culture, to raise it to the same level of concern as economic growth  and social well-being, and to ensure recognition of the cultural dimension of development among decision-  makers of the countries of the world.
4.11 During this period of change when the attainment of liberty does not immediately bring with it the  expected economic revival, efforts at international co-operation are more than ever necessary. In this regard, we  support the proposal for the establishment of an international commission to draw up the proposed World
222   Report on Culture and Development. As we fast approach the mid-point of the World Decade for Cultural  Development, the mid-decade evaluation should focus not only on the achievements of the past but must be  forward-looking and plot the path for the rest of the decade in the light of changes in the international order.  For the same reason, we note the significance of the Silk Roads and Encounter of Two Worlds projects. The  rationale of these two efforts of UNESCO to involve disparate cultures in an intellectual exchange acquires  even more relevance today.
4.12 In the area of communication, we urge UNESCO to continue its efforts to encourage the free flow of  information. The significant role of communication has been even more dramatically demonstrated than in  recent months. Someone remarked that wars are being waged on television sets in peoples’ living rooms. Coup  d'états and other momentous events occur and the world community's response depends on immediate objective  and independent sources of information. Can there be a more striking case in point than that of Mr Gorbachev,  isolated in the Crimea, availing himself of the radio to learn of developments in Moscow and other parts of the  world?
4.13 In this vital area of communication, the Philippines recognizes the crucial role that the International  Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) plays in the development of communication  infrastructures to reduce the existing disparity in information flows between the developed and developing  countries. In this connection, we urge that, in the implementation of the programme and in the allocation of  resources, more attention be given to the Asia-Pacific region. We should like to take this opportunity to  recognize the importance of the extra-budgetary assistance that the Philippines is receiving in support of its  programme to develop community-based media in some of our most economically depressed and isolated areas.
4.14 We are witnessing today a rising wave of immigration highlighted by immigrants from Eastern  Europe. Survival is a natural instinct among all species on earth, and this law of nature is at the heart of the  right of men and women to aspire towards economic betterment and social well-being. UNESCO must see to it  that the teachings of human rights inculcate in all people not only the traditional respect for political and civil  rights but also, in an even deeper and wider dimension, an understanding of the causes and consequences of  economic deprivation, and social degradation to help find together the solutions to these problems. Thus, for  example, rich countries can not simply impose strict border controls and indiscriminate deportation without  seriously taking into account the basic malaise of poverty which gives rise to these immigration flows.
4.15 Mr President, it is heartening to note that UNESCO is keeping up with the changes in the world  through its own efforts at reforming the Organization. The Philippines is grateful to the Director-General for  all the steps he has been taking to provide the Organization with a more efficient and effective Secretariat, and  to the various Member States of UNESCO, for their initiative and attempts to transform the Organization into a  more relevant and useful structure for these changing times. In particular, the Philippines strongly supports the  proposal to make a Member State's representation in UNESCO's Executive Board more supportive of national  policies and more responsive to the development programmes of Member States.
4.16 ~~ We must bear in mind that UNESCO is an intellectual organization and never depart from this basic  and fundamental fact. The Philippines, therefore, fully supports all efforts in the current restructuring of  UNESCO io preserve and enhance the agency's intellectual component while at the same time realizing the  need to avoid unwieldiness. The Philippines also realizes the need for a stronger presence and impact of the  Organization in the various regions of the world. My country therefore attaches great significance to the  process of decentralization currently being reviewed by UNESCO Member States.
4.17  Às a consequence, Mr President, my delegation comes to this Conference as a people who fully support  the ideals and goals of UNESCO. For we realize that now, more than ever, UNESCO's programmes are  immensely relevant to the world in general and to the Philippines in particular. We wish you to know that we  have the sincere desire to contribute in a modest way towards the achievement of UNESCO's goals in this  Conference and beyond. The Philippine Government has amply demonstrated its strong commitment to  promote universal understanding and co-operation among the peoples and nations of the whole world. Thank  you, Mr President.  (Mr Ogot resumed the chair)
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the deputy head of the delegation of the Philippines.
223   RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU CONCERNANT LE TRAITEMENT DES PROJETS DE  RESOLUTION RELATIFS AU DOCUMENT 26 C/5  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE CONCERNING THE TREATMENT OF DRAFT  RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO DOCUMENT 26 C/5  RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA ACERCA DEL TRATAMIENTO DE LOS PROYECTOS DE  RESOLUCION RELATIVOS AL DOCUMENTO 26 C/5  PEKOMEHJIALIMA IMPE3HIHYMA OTHOCHUTEJIbLHO PACCMOTPEHMUMS ITPOEKTOB  PE3ONIOIHH, KACANIMHXC5H NOKYMEHTA 26 C/5
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the General Committee's deliberations at its  second meeting held this morning on the question of the treatment of draft resolutions from Member States at  this session of the General Conference. The General Committee's recommendation on this matter is as follows:  after a vote it recommends that the General Conference adopt the following draft resolution under item 1.6,  Organization of the work of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference:  The General Conference,
1. Having examined the report by the Director-General on arrangements for dealing with draft  resolutions submitted by Member States,
2. Noting that Member States have submitted a large number of draft resolutions with substantial  budgetary implications,
3. Decides that the Reserve for draft resolutions submitted by Member States should be re-  established for the twenty-sixth session in an amount of $1.5 million and financed through  absorption in all Parts of the budget without affecting the Participation Programme;
4, Decides further to postpone to its twenty-seventh session the application of the criteria  concerning admissibility of draft resolutions (135 EX/Decision 3.1.2).
6.2 You will note that paragraph 3 is new; the other paragraphs are exactly as in the working document
(26 C/BUR/4). May I take it that the Conference accepts this recommendation by the General Committee?
6.3 I see no objections. It is so decided.
6.4 The General Committee also accepted a proposal by the Director-General concerning the distribution  of the Reserve among the commissions, based on the weighted average of the draft resolutions with substantial  implications received by the deadline of 29 July 1991. Each Commission has been allocated a specific sum and  the details will be published tomorrow in the Journal. Thank you.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYX/EHHE BOITPOCOB OBIIEH TONHTHKH (npoyonxenne)  (p25) Laladh Lulu | Aie  BBRIHE CHE)
7. The PRESIDENT:  We now continue with our general policy debate and I call upon H.E. Ms Tytti Isohookana-Asunmaa,  Minister of Culture and head of the delegation of Finland.
8.1 Ms ISOHOOKANA-ASUNMAA (Finland):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it is a true pleasure for me to see you,  Mr Ogot, presiding over our deliberations. I am sure that under your skilful guidance this session of the  General Conference will proceed smoothly and successfully.
8.2 We are living through a time of unique ideological freedom, which has brought about positive changes  in international political interaction. In the development of the new participatory approach, in the  strengthening of the democratic process, UNESCO has a major role to play. We have witnessed a significant  increase in the membership of the United Nations. I should in particular like to mention the Baltic States,  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which have regained their rightful place among independent nations and which  have recently joined the United Nations and joined UNESCO at the beginning of this session. We, for our part,  are ready to help our Baltic neighbours with whom we have recently re-established diplomatic relations, by  sharing with them our experience in these organizations.
8.3 There is every reason to consider the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO  historic. The liberalization of the global political atmosphere has also brought about deep-going changes in  Europe. The nationalist spirit is strong, and contrary to what has been predicted, the nation-states are emerging  vigorously. Nationalist disputes, the language strife involved in them, and the status of minority communities  are questions which give rise to profound conflicts. In addition to migration within continents, there is an  extensive movement of people from one continent to another, in which different cultures are thrust upon each  other. UNESCO is furthermore facing a new challenge in helping the Eastern and Central European countries  which are striving towards democracy and respect for human rights, to find a new basis for education, research  and culture.
3.4 My delegation’s view is that the promotion of human rights and of activities which aim at tolerance  and mutual respect of different cultures will occupy a central place on the agenda of mankind. UNESCO is the  main forum dealing with these questions. This makes it all the more imperative for UNESCO to regain its  universality so as to be able to use the experience of all nations in attaining the goals the Organization has set  to itself.
8.5 Mr President, during the two years which have passed since the last session of the General Conference,  Member States have seen a positive development in UNESCO. This development is reflected in the efforts to  improve both the working methods of UNESCO and the structure of the Secretariat, so that the limited  resources at the disposal of the Organization can be fully and efficiently used for the needs of Member States.
8.6 Another important aspect of the reform process are the proposals which have been made to improve  the work of the governing bodies of the Organization, the Executive Board and the General Conference.  Finland, together with other Nordic countries, has taken part in this debate and will be ready to contribute to  this work of helping UNESCO to function more rationally.
8.7 A third aspect of the reform is its links to reforms in the United Nations system as a whole. The  reforms in the economic and social fields call for a fresh outlook and a new division of responsibilities. One of  the objectives of the reforms is to maintain the United Nations in the forefront of development activities, With  this in mind, the Nordic countries have undertaken a study called ‘the Nordic United Nations project. The aim  of the Nordic countries, which in recent years has provided about one third of the financing of United Nations  development activities, is to make the system more transparent, responsive and accountable,
8.8 Let me now say a few words about the preparations for the United Nations Conference on Environment  and Development, UNCED, to be held next year in Rio de Janeiro. There is a wide range of environmental and  development issues of a specific and substantial nature, such as the protection of the atmosphere, combating  water pollution, etc. There are also numerous horizontal issues to be tackled in the preparation for the  Conference. Among these, legislative, financial and organizational issues seem to dominate the preparatory  work carried out so far. There is no doubt that these issues are of fundamental importance if and when concrete  action is to be taken in the near future. However, some equally important and perhaps even the most  fundamental issues for the success for all measures to be recommended by the forthcoming Conference seem to  be neglected or given only a secondary status. These issues include education, research and culture. My  delegation holds a strong view that all measures to improve the present situation both in industrialized and in  developing countries need the backing of the scientific community. They also need the support of the public at  large, and here environmental education and education for international understanding are essential.
8.9 My delegation would like to underline the significance of scientific, educational and cultural aspects in  improving environmental and development matters. The role of UNESCO is central in this context. We hope  that these considerations will be given proper attention both in the preparation of the Conference and at the  Conference itself.
8.10 The Finnish National Commission for UNESCO has recently published a national strategy for  environmental education, prepared at the request of UNESCO. The strategy covers all fields of education and  all age-groups. The primary aim of environmental education is to change peoples’ attitudes and behaviour so  that their actions support sustainable development. The yardstick of development is all too often the growth of  economic welfare. The role of culture in the intellectual welfare of humanity has been almost totally  overlooked. One of the overriding principles of the World Decade for Cultural Development proclaimed by  UNESCO is to ensure that the cultural dimension of development is taken into consideration in decision-  making. We need international co-operation which protects, revitalizes and enriches the identity and cultural  heritage of all nations.
811 Mr President, I have outlined the priority areas which in my government's opinion are fundamental to  UNESCO and to its role in international co-operation. We have followed with satisfaction UNESCO's progress  towards reassuming its status as a universal forum for co-operation in education, science, culture and  communication. Let us join forces in building a stronger UNESCO in a constructive and open dialogue. Thank  you, Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Finland, who finished her statement with six minutes to spare,  and I call on H.E. Mr Arjun Singh, Minister for Human Resource Development and head of the delegation of  India.
10.1 Mr SINGH (India) (Statement delivered in Hindi, English translation provided by the delegation):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  allow me, first of all, to extend my warm congratulations to you, Mr President and to the other members of the  General Committee on your election to these high offices. My delegation stands ready to assist you fully in the  discharge of your onerous tasks.
10.2 May I also take this opportunity to welcome in our midst the new Member States.
10.3 Mr President, in an age of increasing global interdependence every major issue transcends national  and regional boundaries. The questions of human development and survival cannot be resolved by any one  country in isolation today. The need of the hour is a greater awareness of interdependence in all its  manifestations - intellectual, economic, environmental and the imperious necessity of an equitable sharing of  the world's resources. My country is committed to reinforce multilateralism, peace and international harmony.
10.4 Against this background, there is an awesome and historic responsibility on the shoulders of the  United Nations, its Specialized Agencies and above all the countries of the world to make these global forums  strong, effective and meaningful. The international organizations reflect the collective determination of the  Member States and it is for us all - the national governments - to strengthen the United Nations system so that  these structures and mechanisms are able to cope with the challenges of the future. A renewed commitment on  the part of all to reinforce multilateralism is indispensable.
10.5 For millennia, the Indian civilization flourished because of its catholicity and its ability to absorb  diverse cultural influences. This flow of ideas, cross-cultural dialogue and exchange of knowledge has been  continuing from time immemorial. The Arabs and Central Asian traders took Indian thought to the Middle  East and Europe. The Greek and the Chinese scholar-travellers brought their knowledge to us and benefited  from the learning of our sages. I perceive in UNESCO a valuable international forum for a similar global  exchange of ideas, experiences and thought. This is the reason why the basic philosophy of UNESCO is so  deeply rooted in the Indian psyche.
10.6 Today, humanity is at a crossroads. The pace of technical, scientific and political change is rapid. Man  has inherent reserves of resilience to adapt to change both in his outside environment and in his mental make-  up. Transition is required from a medieval mind set to a modern one. Given its unique intellectual and ethical  mission, UNESCO has to update and equip itself to deal with the new challenges and opportunities in its areas
226   of competence. UNESCO's mission is all the more important as, in the words of Pundit Jawahar Lal Nehru, it  represents the conscience of the world community.
10.7 Mr President, since the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference two years ago, the international  political scene has undergone fundamental changes. The liberation of Namibia has removed the last remnants  of colonialism. The process of the disintegration of apartheid has commenced. The spectre of a world war has  receded. Winds of change are sweeping through Europe and other parts of the world. The human being has  once again come to occupy the centre stage in humanity's quest for a world which is free of deprivation, want  and restriction of freedoms. There is a resurgence of faith in the individual and a quiet determination is  emerging that he be allowed to make his own choices - political, social and economic. There is global  recognition that the expression of collective will is best achieved through the ballot. India, as the largest  democracy in the world, is gratified at these developments.
10.8 ~~ UNESCO has the unique task of harmonizing the rich and varied heritage of mankind. We have to  search constantly for ways which fortify the basic unity of humankind even while preserving and respecting  diverse identities of religious, ethnic and linguistic groups.
10.9 Mr President, the draft programme and budget presented by the Director-General is clear and concise.  We are concerned at the actual decline in the programme budget when UNESCO has to meet new challenges to  fulfil its mandate. Expectations from UNESCO for programme delivery are growing while budget allocations  are declining in real terms. The solution lies in programme concentration and prioritization. In this regard, I  would stress the need to institutionalize and rationalize the mechanism of evaluation of past and ongoing  programmes which would offer an invaluable input in our planning of future activities.
10.10 We welcome the efforts of the Director-General to pursue structural reforms. However, the net result of  the exercise undertaken by the Secretariat for reduction in staff and administrative costs has till now been  modest. I would appeal to the Director-General to redouble his efforts in this direction. A leaner organization  would be both more efficient and cost effective.
10.11 We welcome and endorse the moves towards greater decentralization in the Organization to bring  decision-making closer to the Member States. Decentralization mechanisms should be so designed that the  Organization becomes more responsive to meet the felt needs of the member countries. The role of National  Commissions assumes particular significance in this context and co-operation with and among them should be  strengthened.
10.12 Mr President, the realization is growing that human development is the centre-piece of any viable  strategy for sustainable economic or social development. A holistic view of human development puts education  in the centre. The international community must, therefore, come forward to make resources available to  achieve the target of universal primary education within a foreseeable future. Several other social problems like  high fertility rates, lack of health care, ignorance and poverty would become more manageable if there were  universal literacy.
10.13 In India, we are making all-out efforts to achieve total literacy in a specific time frame. The primary  education system has been geared to achieve universal access, universal participation and universal  achievement of the minimum levels of learning by all the children of school-going age. Simultaneously, out-of-  school children, especially girls, are being covered under the non-formal education system. Women's  empowerment and special attention to the deprived and disadvantaged sections of society are two integral parts  of our national strategy. Under the guidance of the National Literacy Mission, launched by the late Shri Rajiv  Gandhi in 1988, 14 districts in India have achieved 100 per cent literacy. An innovative campaign approach  has been adopted to motivate and involve the community and secure its active and productive participation.  Literacy is being imparted with the objective of ushering in social change. The literacy rate in the last decade  rose from 43.56 per cent in 1981 to 52.11 per cent in 1991. We are gratified that our sincerity of purpose has  been acknowledged by this esteemed Organization by awarding India the literacy prize two years in a row. Last  year, a non-governmental organization in the state of Kerala was awarded the King Sejong Literacy Prize and  this year the state of West Bengal has won the Noma Literacy Prize.
10.14 The World Conference on Education for All organized at Jomtien last year at the initiative of  UNESCO outlines the blue-print of action for meeting basic learning needs. We need to ponder together  whether the goal of education for all by the year 2,000 - just nine years away - will remain a dream or become
227   an achievable reality. UNESCO can and ought to play a major role in keeping this objective in the focus of the  world's attention. The mass media should be mobilized to generate popular pressure on the decision-makers so  that at least a part of the so-called ‘peace dividend' is directed towards achieving the laudable goal of education  for all.
10.15 Mr President, India welcomes the proposal to establish an International Commission on Education for  the Twenty-First Century. The report of the first international commission Learning to Be' was widely  disseminated by the Indian National Commission. Twenty years have elapsed since then. There is need to  assess our successes and failures and to chalk out a course for the future. I hope that the Commission would  have a representative character including all important regions of the world and would cover all aspects of  education.
10.16 Science and technology offer the key to rapid development of a developing society like ours. A wider  objective is to promote a scientific frame of mind and to foster scientific excellence in the country. Protection of  the environment and economic development in harmony with ecological balance are among the major  challenges of the day. For the integrated advancement of a society and for the all-round development of an  individual, the nexus between scientific and technological changes and the age-old humanistic tradition needs  to be recognized. UNESCO has an important role to play in this regard.
10.17 Mr President, it would be desirable to promote networking arrangements among institutions to make  their infrastructure and resources available for utilization by members under the auspices of UNESCO.  Alongside regional networks, a dialogue between the institutions of the developed and the developing countries  would be mutually beneficial. It is tempting to visualize the establishment of viable linkages between our  national programmes in India and the activities sponsored under the UNESCO umbrella. My government is  ready to offer the facilities available at our educational and research institutions and laboratories for the  establishment of collaborative linkages with the institutions in other member countries through UNESCO and  to undertake joint programmes for research and training.
10.18 Mr President, "the World Decade for Cultural Development’ is a major initiative of UNESCO. We are  happy to participate fully in this programme. We appreciate the Organization's contribution to the preservation  and enhancement of the world cultural heritage which is threatened with the relentless pressure of time,  increasing population and technological change. We recognize that the responsibility of the preservation of  mankind's heritage is global. Despite our own resource constraints, India has been able to contribute  significantly to the restoration of the famous Angkor Wat Temples in Cambodia - both financially and with  technical assistance.
10.19 Mr President, the new communication strategy outlined in the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995)  was approved at the last General Conference of UNESCO. However, the insufficiency of the funds being made  available in the next biennium do not mesh in well with the crucial, critical and multi-directional character of  communication activities. Well-planned international co-operation can stimulate concrete action and synergic  operation in vital fields like socio-economic development and protection of the environment.
10.20 We are concerned that glaring imbalances and inequities in the information situation between the  developed and developing countries are not being adequately addressed. A situation has emerged where most of  the developing countries have been reduced to being passive recipients of information. Our fundamental aim in  the communication sector has to be to channel constantly our energies to the removal of inequalities and  enhancement of the capacities of Member States. Free flow of information should be balanced and multi-  directional, providing for information pluralism. This is the only way to forge unity and mutual understanding  in a world with many voices. The International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) has  a key role in strengthening the communication capacities of the developing countries. We in India, have been  consistently working for the revitalization of IPDC.
10.21 Mr President, the study of social sciences has come of age in several developing countries including  India. To develop a universal paradigm of social sciences applicable to different societies, greater interaction is  required among the social scientists from different regions of the world. UNESCO has the important duty to  promote a dialogue on an equal footing among the social scientists for exchange of knowledge as well as  expertise.
10.22 Mr President, my delegation strongly supports the programmes under the transverse themes directed  towards women and youth. Since the largest number of women is in the Asian region, we hope that an  appropriate share of UNESCO's resources and programmes will be directed towards women in Asia.
10.23 Mr President, we welcome the fact that a large number of Member States are embarked upon giving  fresh impetus to reforms in UNESCO. Of particular significance are the proposals regarding the character of  the Executive Board and its method and scope of work. These include a comprehensive proposal submitted by  several G-77 countries, including India; it is hoped that this exercise will actually result in an Executive Board  cmerging as a stronger and a more action-oriented body than ever before.
10.24 Mr President, Excellencies, for future peace and prosperity on our planet, the most crucial battles will  have to be fought in the minds of men. The world around us is progressing towards a future where each  individual would have his own identity with adequate space for the blossoming of his personality. Equality of  man and respect for the individual is the direction towards which a more mature world of tomorrow should  move and we need to prepare for it. We must concern ourselves not only with the kind of world we want but  also with what kind of man should live in it. This I see as UNESCO's mission in the years to come; to drive  home this theme, I would like to quote what the late Shri Rajiv Gandhi said while addressing this august  Organization in 1985: "UNESCO must build not only defences against war in the minds of men and women,  but also defences against dehumanization’. Thank you.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of India, and I call on Dr Musare Hasan Al-Rawi, Director-General  of the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization.  : (small op alad ly Talay Loyal Tapped) LEA) (oof pdf amend] VY,  caipll slaely slut, Salut pled] Laald sued) ogiaiinll galall purty saad) pled S301 Gud; saad  aS ana Jac y pI Lixats Taal cube] pal plais TEE Las Ab Large LUN pals ll s las  Anibal Lala) Gilaal Fées a Gadsally glad!  sale cp sdaily VUE, Las AU Lopadl Lakin) 135 pals oS GUEST ol J Leaasal out pl) asad! \YL,Y  gil OF Poms LS Will Singe pi GARE I AS) Lady Boal) eda Subd) Lad pL) Lawley lad)  Las SIl Gigs Sle coSaipall plod) sual abe sna snd) Giasad Gated) suuiilly Jujall Sal)  sin Balad ob OI) az gs ad Lali) sia pis tala Jlael db GL, 505d) Jin dal Louis]  Aad) LislasY) Lalani sudan) LAB AUI  oP asl) Lad yess Jaa AIT =! epaladly GLA Cas AU La pad l LAN of pun pd) wad! AYLY  AAA UM oo GLAS 13a ols aS] Lakin pa Lalla Lealaad gb CUSS Lavoie Luaslil Tdi.  os Land) Gidlad) anuad addy lia Ha pl pS aie Lidl oo! Uasis¥y pal pd GIL Lalasal gl Glass  Us Le yd6 Fils GylaiIl LGUSS le pri pills alee wlizaady gesabe pls J) cian sds Lits  lin pos de ya ga JSG gaat a Ll poladly LGA, Lasalle A Wail ua] Guia) GSM  RCC Lego dl RUN à SUNT NTC PN JT SR CIC HN JE SWECTT Rad JS Ge Girl JOC OW PI PLT]  DIS: OF Oar U Lula Ladpas pains) LLA MIS LIEU ada gy Gig ASIE Golaill Talay) GAIL jaa  Woasd) Gall Coy platal sie Jl a doss y Lun él wlaliidly Ld yall LAN on Gawaddly oolaad! ule  DAS GI (aiid) adie aus 55 poland) 13a adsl  pabioadl pasts 10/00 US Sly ASS pladly Ll Lassa) Lopad) TNT 5 utd) anal AY 8  Lond) Lilaay Laasslly poland Gilad) (oS una) MS EN Lilatal wola AI AAAY=VAAY lad Lally  olan GS pla Jai Gay UES ds Sisal Jab ce seal! ga SA) Jig J) Gala) ga Bla Ÿl GST Lg  Lawall TUT s5 hs) 5583 oT aiid ualally (gaially paid] Soa pe ali pal 5 y ge 1555 SI G1, EL  dy zh lela pa LIS Cl plans 31 I gl Golasdl Gadas) (US y AUS 5AMN poplin ob Gans a La AS  le ois saall lin by Lali) lab) Ge spsadb a Td gud] Lis pad fil ge Ga alas IT SRE Jul]
229   Jal ce LS gall TUS lacs] pa Jul lial 58 open pb Seni gl] Say LAS Laid Lule gansd) Vin Lal sa  dia] lin Ge aaa]  Load) AUS EE 555 A) Cilgall Jaga olla! Gans clubs J saad OF sa] usd J) aad) VY, 0  palaill puens Vol cpSansgnl) Gay Lan SAN SIA] mY leas Wala) S550 paladly GE, To al  pala] pans Cilaal 3uial sad WAS Taga 550571 3,000 JMS Tara JAUNE cued wil Lal pans lad]  Oa ola ENV pally audi) LMS candy Ugo cil pin Sie clus 45 Spa a da cal 131g LaaY) pans ula  AL All Laa¥ Tal Ge gall LUN spall Jud Ge of Load! USB ie Jud Ge ol oS] Laisa Jos  sobdall Jl Lagi) sad Lh pus sags y Las ad] Bla 3 Leela Vy Loliadd¥ CL lad le LDU  lily ad) plats Lay Liaallas oaiown JI ist Ÿ OY) Ga ES Ge Gull Ga 55 La gl Jill pa lad AS  Lun si Lad puy J) caginly SUIS spall posds solely cali plais GEA, Las AU Tonal) AAA gl  i anand) Ga Biaada Le gare Wha tad ay dus ga I LI) 6 Ta) gaa Aland) AU pass  DJS 5 Al Lie MY Ty Lyd) whi), clelada¥ly wloaisl) sla il) LL, glad) Jk booed) oll]  asks 5,00) ILE US ŸI iad) Load Wa,Lael SLs plais Lao) ae y A1a¥) plat) pass 5 sang le  Las pod | ol pid ly tiladsd LP Lulu gral y pan) Toad) Jaa (MAL) Gtadaga paie Le sid  LR bball, Aa Lahn) wlind) Waal Aa AIN URSS oda sada Gay Lasalis a LY) ges Ald] A AAGUIE Gadad sal Td gal) spall 5 Lara) S Jol] Gay TAB UNI Ga Tan lue Less  Vous ple is (éslply sudally cial) a BLL V5 ps I LS 5 lus pra) AU Suds JUIN a5  olay LALA Las ga Lay LIEU yess Lpaaladl sp lgall wd) pladTundly Lond) Glas (Ll AY,  IL Llaial soy alll Global Td 91 ole] pe pail) Toadd pall suis dal Ge gall Tiel JI  Vis na padl Vas 5e Liblall len cll yl Table 3 cana aby ond) Sead! ph Lad) Toatsy Roland  Cad Al legally geld] oda cchspieel 155 Lilo aptes Waal JISS Ys GLGS Le DS oe  iad] Bll) Laila à Leaadill Tuya) SRY oly DE Ge Salil] a Ud) le UN Raspail  siailly gasoil Laidley c5ue gala seal jad] Lin galing DE Ga LAS y Load) Lond] Glas  Liisi) Jus Jysd A3V1 plsall gga USE cra Legal Golills Buel, 301 ual YI le Juif cia 5  phasaly adbeadl gan aad) esl] Saal Byes appa LOU cali doa Sud pled ly Lda] Less  solsll Vols Jal Gas Lips là Laud] cle gunsll i road) ollsdd Lael pally wba) oa Wek  À TTIW NUE ALKCT RIPONE OVC TRC TRETIE [IONE SUCTPRIMINLE, TIVE [JR Se PE SRT]  Lh ob TAU 3,800 Toland opal) (AUT SU ail) LAN hay Tag padl IAB opty to] asl!  + al WG) Galan peli Sty wut] oF gly asad Ga dally LAW pled) claliisnd satya (oll  JEU Van à gS sl) Takis  Led lad JLly Tasadl LY la pate Grad à pus Lis pal lila] gaan Ge Salida endl dal Gay VY, V  Lans pied le Loyal] Labial! hued Sal al Ghd) 3 BGI poled) sashes Tans) yil class! sii  il sills gobi) Crs) le Teatnl) Gaal Guiad db Uels 35007 plead) Jal 54 Arild Tae  lsd 58 ly pylail Taps l gif Tan sis (ais le pScud pdf Talinl Jajail SEL, push Lowlidl ada  A 5alYy Lawl pid | SE ES A  paladly GUAT Les al Las ga JM RUN opin Yalan? ly Tue Lin dl poladl à gad! 5503 WIG YA  da sade Ved Ÿ Slaatally pa idl Buell Lapel) Laine à Loi USA a Luc laiaY] poled) Les 53nd  cibubadl Jans 3a Lila of blag 0505 33 Le slituly Lowlul Gubideas Julasy Wlisal le cipal)  Las buaiianl Jylas Lelii sing -ducleïaŸl Spall 5e lisses Le spun le 0 las dilly Las la3 515 Laclaia Yl  paladl 3,00 mals sl 135 Jal) Vin 55 Sasa) 4 puis Le SLA Lalo Jaadsy abil) gal 5  Le laiaYl &pall giadl Ga Fania andy CR OAI 5500) resid]
230   BUS AU ESRC SUVARI ITTV RISE TUR UCON J pistes BUCCI ES 1 LINPIN ITE SUCCIMI IRR JR  Legal RAY Ls pa 30 Lyall of TAN Tall SAIT aphasia pad | le GS) ppt) GS on  ol! Lagos LUS sealiadl Jats Ju Toll) Wheelie 3 seats ¥ Ladd! of Sante wlyior She wd]  ot LU AES sad) Ge asd US slash Luly pula! Tia Ley 300 pais lal] SAM sa3  ot Load) Land] Ganda] ads pales OÙ J dan Ld) ada Lila Jad aan oF Jali oad] Ghyll  Les pa JP LUAL GA le Gaga Ga AS SAN G30 (A AT LA pls YG da Fes LIS Janus y Ld ad) 4 p03)  dada y Vlas A Faaddl po OF aan Ala) Lass A (oe Tad) Tage Lis ad oly Le pasldly  Ol Lidil ida) Gudaall Gow 45 OLA LAT Lah) Laisa Lagu JAG lle 58353 Ad) BLEU  ral ail) danlly bobdsdl abaya Jeli olan) ISO IS SLAM 5559 le 5ST pad) AI  JS Lilia 5 whiladel Wd paads Cuan U5) lly cles MI Jupes Uadd CASA can GUSYL 15 gas puns  clita], claaally LGA alawilly Losall Jyadd speadl da 5Ÿ Lowlill vin ptits pi oa  GU Gas Wad 5 sys Jap) due poil (élan lue puis (J) Gopal! judy Lo pad Talia) ua ETS  tr AM Golaall pia a Lis slaladly rs gadf pial) Vas ASIN dis peda (je Lad) Lo ali  dar ga lé 5 Laally ase) Ga sé labs aida)  TOUS (ele DUNT di pes Ge SUEPUN  SNTET Qin BJ J {LOY Tp ele DF TUR TR TC agua SI sad NN  Saas 99 VS Gull) Toul la sally 05361 Ulaall Jalal! phony) lava paf dished pond] paca  aid) 3s Lads AJ galy Leaals¥) clelially SUIS Lpud plus wb walis GUI adsl ay  Ll) clad] dlls aobaalally pula] 3350aly Table Jas Jel Madd) hide lI I atl LES aa  US alli Lally sit] Labo GRAS 5 sci p il) gual) pla api Asal Loypadl nl Vy Ole i
(12.1) Mr Al-RAWI (Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization, ALECSO) (Translation  from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate: 'Soon will We show them Our Signs in the  furthest regions of the earth, and in their own souls, until it becomes manifest to them that this is the Truth"  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads and members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I extend to you all the warmest greetings of ALECSO, wishing you and the  work of your Conference every success in the achievement of its scientific and humanitarian objectives.
(12.2) Mr President, allow me, on behalf of the ALECSO delegation, to congratulate you most warmly on your  election as President for this session, wishing you success in acquitting the responsibilities of your high office. I  am also pleased to be able to convey our deep thanks and well-deserved appreciation to our friend Mr Federico  Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, for graciously inviting our Organization to attend the meetings of this  Conference and participate in the work of its committees and commissions. I take this opportunity to pay tribute  to the dynamic role he has played in leading the Organization towards the achievement of its high humanitarian  objectives.
(12.3) Mr President, ALECSO, of which I am honoured to have the responsibility of leadership, is a  specialized regional organization with aims and purposes similar to those of UNESCO. Because of this similarity  between the two Organizations, we are very attentive to the programmes and activities that are discussed by your  august conference. The close relationship between our Organizations has taken tangible, material and operational  form in the co-operation and co-ordination agreement which we concluded in order to further our common
231   objectives in the fields of education, culture and science. We are keen to strengthen the ties of co-operation  between us and ensure their continuity; we do this through the joint co-ordinating committee which we have set  up and through UNESCO's Regional Offices in the Arab world. It is gratifying that the results of this co-operation  between us and the Regional Offices have been positive. Our relationship can be presented as an ideal model of  what can be done through co-operation and co-ordination between an international and a regional organization. I  am looking forward to the forthcoming meeting of the joint committee, which will evaluate our co-operative  relations and draw up plans for the next biennium.
(12.4) Mr President, ALECSO finds the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5) highly  commendable. It addresses the major contemporary issues of peace, development and environmental protection  and reflects the need, attested by recent events, to step up the effort to promote intercultural dialogue and to  establish a culture and civilization for the age of peace. While we appreciate the presentation and content of the  draft programme and the criteria by which it was drawn up, we hope that the corresponding financial resources  that appear in the draft budget will be augmented so that the level of international co-operation to which we all  aspire can be achieved and the conditions of the many poor countries in the developing world which are suffering  under the burden of international indebtedness can be alleviated. Accordingly, we invite UNESCO to study the  impact of the indebtedness factor on education, culture and science in the debtor countries and to help those  countries to cope with the material and technical aspects of their predicament. In the light of the results of such a  study, UNESCO could act jointly with international financial institutions to help relieve the pressure on those  countries.
(12.5) Mr President, I would like to comment on a number of areas which we at ALECSO consider to be fertile  fields for co-operation between us. The first area is universal basic education and literacy. Lately, the Arab region  has witnessed intensified efforts to achieve the objectives of universal basic education and literacy. Even though  these efforts were launched many years ago and in the time that has elapsed many ideas have been put forward  and actions taken by UNESCO, ALECSO and various countries in the effort to roll back the tide of illiteracy,  which threatens to engulf the economic and social development plans of the Arab States and thwart their every  effort to achieve progress and accede to higher levels of civilization. I must tell you frankly that the results we  have achieved to date have fallen short of our ambitions and aspirations. Accordingly, ALECSO conducted an  evaluation of those efforts and their results, and, in the light of that evaluation, adopted a regional plan for the  development of universal primary education and literacy in the Arab countries. That plan was drawn up by a  group of eminent specialists from the Arab world, who worked in the light of the conclusions reached and the  trends established at recent international and regional conferences, meetings and other encounters on education,  where attention has been focused on universal primary education, literacy and adult education. Pursuant to the  recommendations of the 1990 Jomtien World Conference on Education for All, which urged the adaptation of  education policies to the rapid changes taking place around us, that subject has been taken up as the principal  issue for the final decade of this century. We consider this regional Arab plan, which was adopted by the  governing bodies of ALECSO, and the country plans embraced in it, as our Organization's and the Arab States’  contribution to the international effort to promote universal primary education and literacy. The objective of the  plan is to provide education for all - urban and rural children and adults of both sexes - by the year 2000.
(12.6) The second area for comment is the protection of the environment and the rational utilization of natural  resources. ALECSO urges that efforts should be stepped up to harness science in the service of progress and it  believes that priority in this action should be given to the developing countries. The Organization has devoted  much attention to the protection and improvement of the environment in the Arab world and has given  conservation the highest priority in its programmes and projects, both past and present. These permanent  programmes and projects serve the cause of ecology through the training of cadres of Arab anti-pollution experts,  through measures to protect and develop the marine environment (the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden Environment  Programme) through measures to combat desertification and stem the catastrophic encroachment of the desert  sands on agricultural lands and urban areas (the North African States' green belt project) and through the  promotion of environmental awareness and the spread of ecological information. In fact, ALECSO has done much  to promote environmental awareness among the ranks of the general public and has published a series of booklets  and manuals with which to educate the Arab citizen on key environmental issues. In its effort to promote the  conservation of natural resources and their optimal exploitation, ALECSO, acting on an early recognition of the  vital importance of water resources to the Arab world, prepared an Arab regional water security plan for  protecting our water, rationalizing its use and limiting its waste. Co-operation with UNESCO in this field has  been constructive and particularly appreciated.
(12.7) In the effort to mobilize Arab capabilities to the full so as to make it possible to meet the ambitions of  the Arab nation and the aspirations of its coming generations, a substrategy for the environment was included in  the Strategy for the Development of Science and Technology in the Arab World, which was drawn up by  ALECSO as a key contribution to the achievement of development objectives at both the country and the regional  levels. I want to take this opportunity to express our many thanks to UNESCO for kindly translating the Strategy  for Science and Technology in the Arab World into French and English.
(12.8) The third area for comment is the strengthening of research in the social and human sciences. ALECSO  cannot fail to draw attention to the special place occupied by the social sciences in the system of modern  knowledge. No society can be developed without the support of a body of knowledge concerning its conditions,  analysis of its basic parameters and evaluations of the (forward or backward) direction in which it is headed. It is  only in the light of the findings of social science research that social and economic policies and laws can be  rationally adjusted. We are trying to put this conviction into practice in our Organization's programmes.  UNESCO's action in this field is very reassuring and the programmes for the next biennium are bound to  strengthen the position of social science research and give it more impetus.
(12.9) The fourth area is the development of resources and the cultural dimensions of development. I am  delighted to think of the prospects opened up by our co-operative relationship for mobilizing Arab capabilities to  the task of refining the current concept of development. The experience of the Arab nation has long demonstrated  that development cannot be limited to material change but must also embrace those cultural and spiritual factors  which constitute the main driving force for progress and civilization. With this in mind, we decided to prepare a  work on the cultural dimensions of development in the Arab world, which, hopefully, will be published before the  end of the year. I am pleased to think that the Arab experience can contribute in some way to universal experience  in the matter, and I cannot but express even greater satisfaction at seeing that provisions for publicizing and  promoting Arab culture have been included in the Conference documents. Now that its terms of reference have  been worked out more thoroughly and its principal activities have been defined, the Plan for the Development of  Arab Culture (the Arabia Plan) can be considered as yet another striking model of co-operation. Our Executive  Board has already discussed this Plan and has affirmed the need for positive and dynamic participation in both its  planning and implementation stages. It has recommended that a proposal for the financing and administration of  projects under the Arabia Plan should be drawn up by mutual agreement between the two Organizations so that  the appropriate funds can be allocated in both their budgets. I take this opportunity to invite the Arab States and  Arab and non-Arab cultural institutions, associations, unions and individuals to make voluntary financial  contributions to the Plan for the Development of Arab Culture (Arabia Plan), whose implementation will give  Arabs in the arts and sciences the opportunity to co-operate constructively with their colleagues in other countries  who have an interest in Arab civilization.
(12.10) Mr President, while we have been declaring an allegiance to the provisions of the defences of peace in  the minds of men and to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the fundamental freedoms  which are affirmed for the peoples of the world without distinction, and while an all-out effort is being made to  settle regional and international disputes and conflicts, Israel has been openly stepping up its acts of repression  against the valiant people of Palestine, which have included the detention and killing of schoolchildren, university  students, teachers and professors, the harassment of cultural institutions in Palestine and the occupied Arab  territories, the alteration of the characteristic features of the holy city of Jerusalem and the intensification of their  policy of Judaizing that city. All this is being done in utter disregard of the appeals made in UNESCO resolutions,  with which Israel refuses to comply. I would like to thank UNESCO for its effort to implement the plan approved  at the last session for meeting the educational needs of the Palestinian people and I earnestly hope that this effort  will be extended to include the other fields of competence of UNESCO. I would also like to propose that  UNESCO, with the case of Namibia as its model, should take immediate action, in co-operation with ALECSO, to  draw up a plan to provide speedy and effective assistance to the Palestinian people in its spheres of competence in  order to help them to cope with the problems they will face when they become independent. I must also urge the  execution of the project for the publication of a book on Palestinian cultural history, which was approved four  years ago but has been deferred because of the lack of funds.
(12.11) In conclusion, Mr President, may I stress two points: the importance of the role played by the dialogue  of cultures and civilizations in the promotion of international understanding and the settlement of disputes among  States and peoples, and the fact that we can never do enough to strengthen the spirit of solidarity, co-operation,  universal love and peace. Thank you.  The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General of ALECSO. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make a plea for brevity. In  view of the large number of speakers and our tight schedule, unless we confine ourselves to 15 minutes we will  find ourselves going on after 10 p.m. tonight. Can we try to limit speeches to 15 minutes. Thank you.
14.1  I now give the floor to H.E. U Saw Tun, Ambassador and head of the delegation of Myanmar.  U Saw TUN (Myanmar):  Mr President, may I, on behalf of the delegation of the Union of Myanmar, take this opportunity to  congratulate you on your election as President of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. Your well-deserved election to this high office truly reflects the high esteem and regard you enjoy at  this Conference. We are confident that under your able guidance and wise counsel we will have a fruitful  session and can look forward to a successful conclusion to our deliberations.
14.2 Mr President, I would, at this point, like to express our unwavering dedication to the lofty ideals of  UNESCO and our pride at being a member of this Organization. We have participated in its activities and had  close co-operation at both the regional and global levels.
14.3 Mr President, the World Conference on Education for All, which was held in Jomtien, Thailand, in  March 1990, gave participating countries, including the Union of Myanmar, an opportunity for a critical review  of their goals and strategies. The major issues concerning education are those of quality, access and cost. The  Union of Myanmar values greatly the contributions made by UNESCO and various United Nations agencies. In  fact, the spirit of Jomtien is reflected in many of the projects undertaken by the government in collaboration  with UNESCO and UNDP. At present an education sector study is under way. At the same time other projects  in areas such as teacher training, university research, technical, agricultural and vocational education, and  economic and business management are being implemented with the help of UNESCO and UNDP.
144 Mr President, to ensure equal access and equity, many new schools have been built and incorporated  into the basic education subsector. Institutions of higher education have also been established on a  geographically more equitable basis allowing for easy access to the student populations throughout the nation.  A major thrust in the education sector is the improvement of conditions in the outlying remote areas and border  areas. It is only in recent times that access to education has been provided to these regions.
14.5 Mr President, may I, at this juncture, bring to your notice that all schools under the Department of  Basic Education and universities, institutes and colleges under the Department of Higher Education have been  rcopened after being closed for nearly three years. The students have completed the requirements of the  incomplete academic year. The atmosphere in the schools and campuses is peaceful and disciplined and  conducive to academic learning. Teachers, parents and students are the three pivotal groups involved in the  education process and through their endeavours they will ensure that the gains they have made will not be lost  again.
14.6 Mr President, the Union of Myanmar National Commission for UNESCO is also very active. It meets  regularly to chart out activities not only in the education sector but also in culture and science. Projects which  will maintain our national arts and culture have been initiated. It is foreseen that many activities which will  help preserve our cultural heritage will be encouraged and aided by the National Commission. It is incumbent  on UNESCO to help mobilize resources from all possible donors - public and private, as well as multilateral  and bilateral.
14.7 — Mr President, finally, I would like to state that because of the existence of UNESCO, we can look  forward with renewed hope to the advancement of education in the twenty-first century. And once again, we  pledge our support for UNESCO's pursuit of intellectual dialogue and co-operation in the interest of peace,  international understanding and mutual respect among all of mankind. Thank you.  (M. Herrera, Costa Rica, prend la présidence)
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Myanmar for his statement. I now call upon H.E. Ms D'Ancona,  Minister of Welfare, Health and Cultural Affairs of the Netherlands.
16.1 Mme D'ANCONA (Pays-Bas) :  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de féliciter M. Ogot à l'occasion de son élection et  de lui souhaiter beaucoup de sagesse pour diriger et inspirer les travaux de cette Conférence générale.
16.2 Je voudrais commencer mon intervention par une citation, non pas par une citation d'un savant ou d'un  écrivain célèbre, mais par un extrait de l'avis sur le Projet de programme et de budget soumis au gouvernement  néerlandais par la Commission nationale néerlandaise pour l'UNESCO. La Commission estime que  "L'UNESCO doit être le moteur de la coopération internationale dans les domaines qui sont les siens,  essentiellement en mettant en place et en renforçant des réseaux de personnes et d'organisations  professionnelles, en particulier d'organisations non gouvernementales, dans un grand nombre de domaines
234   intellectuels relevant de sa compétence. Les activités de l'UNESCO doivent viser à créer les conditions  permettant une approche internationale des questions en rapport avec ces domaines. Pour les Pays-Bas, le  transfert de connaissances et l'échange d'expériences et d'informations doivent constituer la principale fonction  de l'Organisation. Ce serait faire tort à l'UNESCO que de ne lui reconnaître qu'un rôle d'organisme de  financement.”
16.3 Voilà comment les membres de la Commission nationale néerlandaise pour l'UNESCO, tous  spécialistes dans les domaines scientifique, culturel ou éducatif, conçoivent la tâche de l'UNESCO. Que tant  d'experts s'entendent sur cette conception incite à l'optimisme. Ils reconnaissent à l'UNESCO un rôle beaucoup  plus étendu que celui de simple bailleur de fonds et d'organisme qui exécute et encadre des projets. Mais, quelle  que soit l'importance de cette tâche, il ne faut pas sous-estimer le rôle de l'UNESCO en tant qu'organisation  opérationnelle. Les Pays-Bas viennent du reste de reprendre la coopération avec l'UNESCO, parce que  l'Organisation dispose dans certains domaines, en particulier dans celui de la culture et de la communication,  d'une expertise qui en fait le canal le plus approprié pour la coopération internationale. Dans notre dialogue  avec l'UNESCO, nous examinons actuellement dans quels domaines concrets la coopération pourrait encore  Être renforcée.
164 Monsieur le Président, il est indéniable que l'UNESCO a traversé dans les années 80 une période  difficile, considérée par beaucoup comme l'exemple le plus révélateur de la crise du multilatéralisme. Pendant  longtemps, l'UNESCO a été victime de ce que l'on a parfois appelé "l'ironie de l'histoire contemporaine”. Ce  que je veux dire par là, c'est que les parties du monde qui ont été les premières à connaître la modernité ont  également été les premières à être, ces derniers temps, confrontées avec les aspects négatifs du phénomène.  Loin de moi l'idée de plaider pour le rejet de la modernité, puisqu'elle a permis d'introduire dans notre société  les notions de sauvegarde des droits de l'homme et d'émancipation de la femme. Mais il ne faut pas oublier que  toute médaille a son revers. La formation et l'éducation n'ont pas pu empêcher que le progrès ne soit souvent  considéré qu'en termes de croissance économique et non pas en termes de possibilités d'épanouissement de  l'individu. De même, dans sa volonté de maîtriser la nature, la société moderne a été à l'origine de problèmes  d'environnement qui prennent des proportions inquiétantes.
16.5 J'ai déjà souligné combien le rôle de l'UNESCO est essentiel en tant que forum pour le transfert de  connaissances. Dans ce contexte, les États membres doivent être disposés à tirer parti des enseignements des  autres. Au moment de l'histoire où nous nous trouvons aujourd'hui, l'UNESCO doit contribuer à concrétiser  cette nouvelle conception du progrès qui tient compte des enseignements que certains d'entre nous ont tirés du  passé, à savoir le fait que, au-delà de certaines limites, les développements ont sur l'homme et son  environnement des effets inverses à l'effet recherché.
16.6 En contribuant à la définition du nouvel ordre mondial - à ne pas confondre avec le terme qui, pendant  trop longtemps, a été à l'origine de divisions au sein de l'UNESCO -, l'Organisation a la possibilité de prouver  qu'elle est capable de jouer un rôle dans les développements qui se succèdent partout dans le monde à un  rythme accéléré. Cette idée du nouvel ordre mondial est de plus en plus largement acceptée, depuis la fin de  l'antagonisme Est-Ouest, la naissance de nouvelles démocraties aussi bien à l'Est qu'au Sud et la baisse de  l'intérêt manifesté pour la sécurité et la défense. Cette idée d'un nouvel ordre mondial est susceptible de  promouvoir une union étroite et harmonieuse entre l'Est, l'Ouest, le Nord et le Sud - sans nouveaux conflits  mondiaux à condition toutefois qu'elle se fonde sur des normes universellement reconnues, parmi lesquelles la  préservation de l'environnement, l'éducation pour tous, l'autonomie des femmes et, de façon plus générale, la  lutte contre la discrimination sociale, raciale ou sexuelle. Le racisme, qui surgit dans beaucoup de pays, et plus  précisément dans les pays européens, est particulièrement inquiétant. Dans ce domaine, la vigilance est à  recommander. L'information des jeunes est réellement nécessaire pour combattre le racisme.
16.7 Le respect de la diversité culturelle est en réalité la base de l'ouverture et de la tolérance et - sur le plan  international - de la coopération, des échanges et d'une stimulation mutuelle. La Décennie mondiale du  développement culturel est le cadre qui convient parfaitement à cet effet, d'autant qu'elle est devenue plus  consistante au cours des deux dernières années grâce au travail considérable accompli par le Comité  intergouvernemental, présidée par M. Van der Staay.
16.8 La Décennie vise à faire accepter l'idée selon laquelle le développement économique peut se fonder sur  la culture. Elle vise à un développement "culturellement durable”, intégrant les dimensions économiques,  sociales, politiques et culturelles. C'est dans cette optique qu'a été présentée l'initiative d'un rapport mondial sur  la culture et le développement. Le Directeur général a demandé aux pays intéressés de formuler leurs
235   propositions sous forme de documents à présenter à la Conférence générale. La formulation de ces propositions  est importante pour garantir le succès d'une telle initiative, à laquelle nous apportons notre plein appui.
16.9 Mais, pour le moment, ce sont d'autres aspects de la Décennie qui revêtent une grande importance : il  s'agit d'accroître la participation à la culture, de promouvoir la coopération culturelle internationale et  d'affirmer et d'enrichir les identités culturelles. Même si cela semble être un paradoxe, il n'en est pas moins vrai  que la prise de conscience de l'identité culturelle est de la plus haute importance, aussi bien pour les nations  engagées dans un processus d'intégration - je pense par exemple aux Pays-Bas dans le cadre de l'unification  européenne que pour les nations engagées dans un processus de désintégration. Le respect d'un peuple pour sa  propre culture est notamment déterminé par la mesure dans laquelle d'autres peuples respectent sa culture. Les  échanges culturels et la coopération culturelle sont donc essentiels pour la préservation de la culture propre de  chaque pays.
16.10 La Conférence des pays de la CSCE relative au patrimoine culturel, qui s'est tenue en juin de cette  année à Cracovie, a soulevé la question de savoir quel est le cadre le plus approprié pour la coopération  culturelle internationale. Nous devons nous garder d'une institutionnalisation inutile et recourir chaque fois que  cela est possible aux organisations existantes. C'est dans cet esprit que le gouvernement néerlandais a souligné  avec insistance à Cracovie que le rôle de la CSCE en matière culturelle - aussi important qu'il ait pu être dans  lc passé - a de moins en moins de raison d'être. C'est au Conseil de l'Europe et, certainement aussi, à  l'UNESCO qu'il appartient de veiller, en coopération avec les organisations non gouvernementales et leurs  Etats membres respectifs, à assurer le suivi de la Conférence de Cracovie, en s'inspirant utilement du document  final de la conférence.
16.11 Monsieur le Président, outre la culture, l'enseignement est, lui aussi, une condition sine qua non d'un  développement durable. Sous le thème de "L'éducation pour tous”, une attention a déjà été accordée au niveau  mondial à la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, dans le cadre de l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation, en
1990. C'est la responsabilité de la communauté mondiale à l'égard de l'analphabétisme qui a inspiré la  Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous, tenue à Jomtien, en Thaïlande. Après l'adoption du Cadre  d'action en mars 1990 à Jomtien, le relais a été passé au Bureau international d'éducation. En septembre 1990,  la réunion biennale du Bureau a été mise à profit pour procéder à un échange d'idées sur l'application concrète  des plans d'action par pays. Dans l'allocution qu'il a prononcée à l'ouverture de la réunion, le Directeur général  a souligné que l'UNESCO accordait une priorité absolue au programme d'alphabétisation. Le gouvernement  néerlandais s'en félicite et espère que ce programme restera une priorité dans l'avenir.
16.12 Les changements positifs qui ont été introduits, ces dernières années, dans les règles de  fonctionnement du Programme international pour le développement de la communication ont été l'occasion  pour les Pays-Bas d'offrir une nouvelle contribution financière à ce programme pour l'année 1991. Le montant  de celle-ci s'est élevé à 400.000 florins. En outre, dans le cadre de l'aide aux pays de l'Est, les Pays-Bas ont  participé au projet de l'UNESCO pour le développement de l'Institut des médias de Varsovie. Dans le cadre du  Conseil de l'Europe, il a été convenu d'allouer des fonds à un programme de coopération avec les pays d'Europe  centrale et orientale.
16.13 Monsieur le Président, au mois de mai de cette année, s'est tenue à Vienne une conférence visant à  promouvoir la communication entre les organisations de jeunes et les institutions des Nations Unies. Mais 1l  appartient également aux Etats membres d'apporter leur contribution, notamment en veillant davantage à  promouvoir la participation des jeunes à la vie sociale aux niveaux national et international. Aussi le  gouvernement néerlandais déplore-t-il que les Pays-Bas aient été les seuls à faire une place à un représentant  des jeunes dans leur délégation à la présente session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO.
16.14 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, contrairement à ce qui était le cas dans les premières années d'existence  de l'UNESCO, il apparaît aujourd'hui que l'idéalisme ne constitue pas une base suffisante pour garantir  l'existence de l'Organisation. Il est donc indispensable de poursuivre dans la voie du rétablissement de la  crédibilité de l'Organisation. À cet égard, nous saluons les réformes en cours d'examen qui visent à renforcer  l'efficacité du fonctionnement du Conseil exécutif, car il est important, de l'avis du gouvernement néerlandais,  que l'organisation et l'exécution des programmes soient surveillées de plus près par les Etats membres. En  même temps, et quitte à en préciser le cadre institutionnel, les Pays-Bas seraient favorables à la création d'une  chambre de réflexion composée d'éminents penseurs et experts qui assureraient la fonction principale de  l'Organisation, à savoir, comme je l'ai souligné au début de mon allocution, le transfert de connaissances et  l'échange d'expériences et d'informations. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de votre attention.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands for her statement and for having observed the time-  limit. I give the floor to H.E. Mr Humberto Belli Pereira, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of  Nicaragua. We ask him to bear in mind our plea concerning the time-limit for speeches.
(18.1) Mr BELLI PEREIRA (Nicaragua) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, whose election to this high office is so richly deserved,  Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, we are living in an era of world change that is,  perhaps, without precedent, in which many countries have, at one and the same time, emerged from the dark night  of totalitarianism and dictatorship to set out along a new road, one that is full of promise. The Nicaraguan  delegation voices its satisfaction at these changes in which it is taking part and extends warm greetings to the new  Member States and to those countries which have experienced the sudden awakening of democracy. We also wish  to express in public our thanks to God and voice the hope that the political emancipation granted to us by His  divine providence may not fail but serve as the prelude to the creation of societies in which greater justice,  freedom and fraternity will prevail.
(18.2) It has to be said indeed that the tree of democracy and peace which our societies are endeavouring to  cultivate is very often a tender, fragile plant demanding much care and the resolute support of the international  community and, more especially, the vigilant co-operation of organizations which, like UNESCO, have the special  responsibility of contributing to the construction of a culture of peace.
(18.3) Mr President, distinguished delegates, at the beginning of this decade Nicaragua is striving to build up a  democracy in a social and political environment which, for the greater part of this century, has been torn apart by  serious internal conflict and by authoritarian regimes of the right and the left. We have to admit frankly that we,  the generations who have the task of ensuring that the tree of freedom and peace flourishes, have little experience  in the art of living together democratically. It is our firm intention, however, to build a better society and, most  important of all, we have the optimism and faith of those who have seen the powerful hand of God opening up a  way forward where only rocks, seas of confusion and impregnable mountains existed before.
(18.4)  Scarcely more than a year ago, Mr President, Nicaragua was a country virtually without hope, a country  where practically no one would have staked any faith on peace. We had just emerged from two civil wars which,  over a period of 12 years, had claimed between 50,000 and 100,000 lives in a country of not much more than
3 million inhabitants. We also had two armies on our territory: the 70,000 soldiers of the Sandinista army and the
22,000 armed peasants in the national resistance movement. Innumerable families mourned the victims of one or  other of these bands. Our economy was in a state of collapse; the per capita income of the Nicaraguans had  dropped to the 1940 level while we could boast what was perhaps the world's highest and most prolonged  hyperinflation - 36,000 per cent over a period of three years!
(18.5) Today peace prevails, the armed forces have been reduced to a third, hyperinflation ended in March this  year and, thanks to the help of friendly countries, Nicaragua has succeeded in settling its arrears with  international funding bodies so that substantial financial assistance can be requested again.
(18.6) How has this extraordinary turn-round been achieved? A key factor in the climate of peace enjoyed by  Nicaragua today has been the determination of our President, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, to construct a
239   political culture based on dialogue and reconciliation. After her convincing electoral victory in February 1990, our  President extended the hand of friendship to all Nicaraguans irrespective of their ideological leanings, breaking  away from the regrettable tradition of denying one's defeated adversary the possibility of any facilities for political  expression, and also doing away with the practice of subordinating national interests to partisan advantages.
(18.7) In the domain of education, our President's policy was, in the initial stage, to replace the biased political  content which riddled most of our school textbooks by a national content which would promote the unity of the  whole Nicaraguan family. As part of this undertaking, the Nicaraguan Government distributed 7.5 million  textbooks during its first year of office. Similarly, the Nicaraguan Government has begun an active search to  secure a broad national consensus in regard to educational policy. As far as previous education is concerned, we  have sought to build bridges which will preserve the continuity of its satisfactory aspects, for we do not believe in  rupture. Next week, in fact, will be marked by the conclusion of a national education congress in which every  sector in the country has taken part, irrespective of political leanings; this congress has been held with UNESCO's  support which I am happy to acknowledge here. However, we do not have to await the outcome of this congress to  stress that one of our most deeply held convictions - shared by the Nicaraguan authorities and the education  community in general - is that education is destined to play a vital role in the consolidation of peace and  democracy in Nicaragua.
(18.8) This is because it will be hard for us to strengthen peace and political democracy if we do not build up,  at the same time, a democratic culture based on dialogue, and because it is impossible to achieve such a culture if  it is not fostered by the education system or only promoted by it in the interests of the few. We realize here that  the cultural and educational transformation we are proposing is a difficult one to achieve. As the Director-General  of UNESCO, Mr Federico Mayor, said during our President's recent visit to this Organization: Tt is a well-known  fact that political change comes about more easily than cultural change. In the initial enthusiasm, full of hopeful  anticipation, of inaugurating new political structures, there is often a tendency to forget that cultural change is  slower and more complex. Many initiatives are frustrated in practice by custom, habit, prejudice and tradition.  Only cultural change can give an abiding and consistent basis to political change since a pluralist society cannot  be consolidated in the absence of a genuine democratic culture’.
(18.9) In Nicaragua we do indeed wish to build up a democratic culture and in UNESCO we see an institution  capable of providing invaluable assistance to us and to peoples in a similar situation in the achievement of these  objectives. But it is important to stress, as I have just said, that in the construction of a genuinely democratic  culture, education must be destined for all and not simply for a minority. In this connection we whole-heartedly  welcome the appeal made at Jomtien to extend education to all. For what kind of democracy can we build and  what kind of fraternal society can we establish in societies where large sectors are totally excluded from  education?
(18.10) Our government accordingly identifies itself as well with the appeal made at the 1979 Conference in  Mexico when the Member States of UNESCO were urged to 'give highest priority to providing for the least  privileged population groups’. Here UNESCO represents for us in Nicaragua an important moral force, for we  have to recognize, Mr President, that very often efforts to assign priority to the needs of the poorest children meet  very strong and well-organized resistance from other sectors of the educational community which are also seeking  to increase their budgetary allocations. These sectors, and this occurs at times in the case of the university  community, are very well able to make their voices heard. But who is going to speak up for the poorest people,  the illiterates, and the children of marginalized families?
(18.11) UNESCO has, in this connection, rendered an incalculable service to the most needy, acting as the voice  of ‘those that have no voice’ with a determination which we, in the poorer nations, not only acclaim but wish to  see strengthened and extended during this decade. For in countries such as Nicaragua, it is clear that the main  thrust of our efforts must be directed towards the strengthening of basic education and, specifically, the  strengthening of primary education.
(18.12) At the present time, and despite the increased coverage achieved during the past decade, some 20 per  cent of our children are still not attending school and only 22 per cent of those entering primary school succeed in  completing this stage of education. We are faced, then, with a serious weakness at the most basic educational  levels and with a permanent source of illiteracy. It is hardly surprising, then, that despite the praiseworthy efforts  made in Nicaragua in the 1980s to secure the reduction of illiteracy from 50 to 13 per cent, it is again rising  rapidly, to the extent that the absolute number of illiterates among the population is now higher than in 1983.
(18.13) We should like, finally, to refer to the preferential attention that the Jomtien Conference sought to give  to the stage of early childhood. This has quite rightly been assigned high priority, having regard to its decisive  character in the child's learning process. UNESCO's plans also provide for an increase in activities aimed at  families and include consciousness-raising programmes for parents and the provision of day nurseries and other  services.
(18.14) It is our impression, however, that a subject which we regard as fundamental has not been given  sufficient attention, i.e. the stability of the family. Without wishing to make value judgements concerning this  question, we have to recognize that, at the practical level, family instability - particularly prevalent in Nicaragua,  as in the case of desertion of families by fathers, and legal divorce or separation by mutual consent - is one of the  most deep-rooted causes of the vicious circle of poverty, penalizing women and children more especially. In many  underprivileged societies, family instability is probably one of the worst enemies of school retention and  promotion and for many children affected by it; it is a profoundly anti-educational phenomenon. How can the  school educate children in the virtues of dialogue, understanding and tolerance when, in the home, that other  profoundly influential early school, the contrary is being taught? How effective can the school be as a nursery of  that new and genuinely democratic culture in the context of family disintegration and break-up? In our view this  is an issue with far-reaching and disturbing implications for education which warrants more searching study. In  UNESCO's Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, however, we do not see that due attention has been given to  this problem. Greater importance should be attached to this phenomenon in the sections on social studies and  social change, and on population questions.
(18.15) We are confident that UNESCO, particularly in the light of the present world situation, will continue to  take up and reflect on these and the many other issues which are our shared concern today, so that side by side we  may continue to build up the ideal that brings us here together - the ideal of a more peaceful, democratic and just  world. Many thanks.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Nicaragua for his statement and for having observed the time-limit  for speeches. I now give the floor to HE. Ms Aase Kleveland, Minister of Culture and head of the delegation of  Norway.
20.1 Ms KLEVELAND (Norway):  Mr President, UNESCO's draft programme for the next biennium boldly states that the Organization  must respond to the major challenges of our time, namely peace, development and the protection of the  environment.
20.2 Humankind is gradually learning that these are the common transboundary challenges, and that  concerted, sometimes collective action is required. No Member State, however strong can respond adequately in  isolation to peace, development and environment issues.
20.3 UNESCO's task is to enable the United Nations system, its Member States, their institutions and  citizens to cope with these challenges, collectively as well as individually. This is what the Programme sets out  to do. Its direction, concentration and realism in view of the budgetary constraints is commendable. It deserves  our support at this General Conference, and our active participation when implemented. We must remember  that UNESCO will only succeed to the extent that it maintains the scope of its dialogue with Member States  and their formal representatives, with institutions at international and national levels operating in UNESCO's  fields of competence, including the increasing numbers of voluntary organizations and groups, and with the  individual citizen, whose concerns, commitments and actions constitute both the challenges and the responses  of our time.
204 For UNESCO's own outreach the free flow of information and ideas by word and image is both  medium and message. The programme gives priority to three categories of beneficiaries: women, least  developed countries (LDCs) and Member States in the Africa region. Norway endorses this emphasis. This does  not imply that other categories can forget about UNESCO; on the contrary. The emphasis is relative, not total,  and we shall all have to do more to meet UNESCO's concerns and to enact UNESCO's message.
20.5 Norway has in the present biennium increased its interaction with UNESCO. We co-sponsored the  preparations for the World Conference on Education for All in Jomtien; and we hosted a seminar on women in  politics and a meeting on the World Decade for Cultural Activities. Under the Associated Schools Project, we  have prepared and published a guide for teachers on environmental education, and our intention is to extend  the project to include 55 Associated Schools in Norway. We have launched a new research programme related  to the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) programme. By hosting a workshop on poverty research, we hope to
241   contribute to joint programming in the social sciences between UNESCO and the International School Science  Council (ISSC).
20.6 In co-operation with the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture, a project on arts from the  Arctic is being developed, covering five countries and their Arctic indigenous peoples’ artistic work.
20.7 We have contributed substantially to the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC) and to a number of multi and bilateral development projects, mostly in the field of  basic education and literacy, and benefiting women in the least developed countries.
20.8 Our membership in UNESCO's Executive Board also indicates our strong and continuous interest in  the Organization's work.
20.9 Furthermore, in an effort to review and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of multilateral  development co-operation, the Nordic countries have conducted a number of studies on the multilateral system,  including UNESCO. Their criticisms and proposals should attract the attention of United Nations organizations  as well as the Member States. Briefly stated, the United Nations Specialized Agencies are encouraged to reach  for professional excellence and relevance in their work; and the normative functions of multilateralism are  emphasized.
20.10 Mr President, for UNESCO to cope with emerging global challenges within its broad mandate -  education, science, culture and communication - a shift of emphasis is necessary with a view to strengthening  the Organization's capacities for analysis and dialogue. Clearer priority-setting and a better concentration on its  own mandate will help to raise the level of specialization and efficiency in UNESCO.
20.11 The Nordic United Nations study also points to weaknesses in development co-operation, Projects  frequently prove costly, ineffective and non-sustainable, and co-ordination is inadequate. Extra-budgetary  financing of operational activities tends to disrupt regular programme implementation by the agencies.
20.12 UNESCO is in the process of redirecting its development co-operation effort. More attention is now  being given to upstream activities (to sectoral analysis and policy advice) and programme support, rather than  to the implementation of individual projects. This is a strategy to be further pursued. The draft programme is  also improved in terms of integrity and transparency as regards regular and operational activities.
20.13 UNESCO must, however, always be able to check analysis against policy and its implementation in the  real world. Field presence and some project work should serve this end. The credibility of sector analysis is  always enhanced by good examples of its practical application. UNESCO must be a clearing house for  documentation on relevant and innovative action. Analysis alone is not an adequate response to the major  challenges of our time.
20.14 The range of its mandate - education, science, culture and communication - should in theory allow  UNESCO to play a significant, in some ways unique role. There is a rich potential for interdisciplinary  activities. For UNESCO to improve its performance, it is therefore essential to exploit its potential of initiatives  across the lines of its programme areas.
20.15 Mr President, UNESCO's uniqueness, and some will say its major achievements are in the cultural  sector. But we must also admit this is where we are frequently defeated, both nationally and internationally.  ‘Culture’ is too easily overlooked when development strategies are designed and when budgets are decided. The  value of cultural diversity is underestimated as a source of creativity, innovation, and even of productivity.  Nations - rich and poor - are rarely compared in terms of their contributions to the world's cultural heritage and  lo contemporary culture. And yet there is an upsurge in human artistic creativity, and tremendous diversity  unfolds: tradition and innovation; professionals and amateurs; local and cosmopolitan expressions; sometimes  opposites are just contrasts, sometimes they combine and new forms emerge.
20.16 However, to ensure truly global participation in cultural life, the essential role of education must be  underscored. Education is the foundation of democracy and social justice enabling individuals and communities  to participate consciously and effectively in shaping their own and our common destiny. Literacy is the vehicle  of education: the means through which ideas, information, knowledge and wisdom are expressed and
242   exchanged. The quest for a literate world is therefore of fundamental importance in our endeavours to ensure  access to culture for as many people as possible.
20.17 UNESCO's emphasis on culture and society, cultural participation and cultural democracy has  contributed to the development of the cultural policies of the past three decades. Recent economic crises and  political changes have threatened, even shattered the organizations of the culture sector. Technological changes  have rendered many cultural institutions outmoded. Smaller nations and minorities feel overrun and overruled  by foreign cultural products. There is today a strong search for cultural identity all over the world.
20.18 The whole question of culture and development deserves analysis on a global scale, analysis by way of  a participatory process that reflects the complexity and sensitivity of the issues as well as the diversity and  meanings of cultural activity,
20.19 A world commission on culture and development established by the United Nations would signal a  renaissance for UNESCO's concerns. The commission's report to the world community would give us a better  platform for action in support of human creativity and our cultural heritage, and a better understanding of the  interlinkages between culture and sustainable development, protection of the environment and peace. It would  highlight how women and men contribute to cultural continuity, identity and innovation, and how children  create, learn and re-create culture.
20.20 This 1s why Norway - among other countries - has urged that a world commission on culture and  development indeed be established, and it gives me pleasure to announce that Norway is ready to support its  work financially with US $500,000. We do this, Mr President, in the expectation that this General Conference,  and later, the United Nations General Assembly, will have a fruitful debate on the work to be done by such a  commission; and that as many Member States as possible will find the work and means to support this work.  Thank you.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Norway for her statement and for having kept within the time-limit.  May I once again ask delegates to observe this time-limit so that we may complete this morning's list of speakers.  I now call upon H.E. Mr Mykola Makarevich, Chairman of the National Commission of Ukraine for UNESCO,  First Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and head of the delegation of Ukraine.
22.1 [-H MAKAPEBHY (Ykpauna):  YBaxXaeMbIH rocnogaun IlpenceaTerb, ypaxkacMblil rociomut l'eneparbHbIA AHpeKTOp, yBaxaeMble  MerleraTbi! Ilpucocuuussicb K paHce 8BbICKA3aHHbIM B Balll ajipec NO3/paBJIeHH#AM, 4 XOoTel Obl, Kak H  BbICTYIHBIIHE 3/[€Cb NPEJICTABUTENH, BbIPA3HTL HAleXKAY Ha TO, YTO paboTa HbIHELIHEÂ CECCHH MO BAIIIHM  PYKOBOJCTBOM GYNET YCICIIION. YOCKIEH, YTO pellets, KOTOPhIE HAM IPCACTOHT IIPHHATb, JafyT HOBbIH  HMIYAbC HCHATCALHOCTH IOHECKO, BbIIOAHSHIONICH CCFO/HH CBOË ManjaTr B YCIOBHSX GecIpeleHeHTHON  CKOPOTEUHOCTH COOLITHH, HEOLIBANOH J(HIIAMHKH MHPOBbIX TIpoieccos. lJeneraims YKpaHHb! IIpHBETCTBYET  BCTYIVIEHHE JIHTBhI, FGCTOHHKH, MaTBun H Tybary B YleHbI Haimeñ OpraiH3aliHH H XesaeT HapojlaM 3THX  CTpan qoÔpa H NpOLBCTaHUA.
3aTPOHYNU CYALOY HE TONbBKO OTJCAbHbIX CTPaH H perHOHOB, HO, 6e3 MNpeyBEHHYeHHA, CHEJAIH HHOË BCIO  CHCTEMY OTHOIHEHHHÀÉ, CIOXHBIIHXCH Ha IMIAHETE K KOHILY XX CTONETHSH. DTH FAOGATbHbIE MONHTHKO-  COLHAJbHbIE TMEPpeMeHbl SBJSIIOTCH 3aKOHOMEpHLIM, OOBeKTHBHBLIM XOJOM pa3BUTHA YUEJIOBEYECTBA, OTO-  GpaxXalOILIHM U3BEUHOE CTPEMNEIHÉ HAPpONOB K HE3ABHCHMOCTH, pea/IH3al1HH Ipara Ha cBOBOJHOC pasBHTHE.  CeroHs MbI C YNOBHETBOPCHHEM OTMEUACM, YTO B 3THX IICpeMeHax npeobiafaeT HarpaBeHHOCTb B CTOPOHY  MEMOKpaTH3al;HH, YTBEPKNENHH GC3YCHOBHOTO HPHMATA OOLILCYCENOBCYHECKHX ICHHOCTEH, OCO3HAHHH  HHTCMNEKTYAlIbHOH H HPABCTBCHHOÏ 1ICIOCTHOCTH MHPA.
22.3 Meur 24 aBrycra 1991 ropa cran NOBOpPOTHBIM MOMCHTOM B HCTOpHH YKpauubl. IlapaamenT pec-  MY6HHKH MPOBO3MIACHI HE3ABHCHMOCTL H CO3I[aHHe YKpaHlicKOro HE3aBHCHMOMO REMOKpAaTHYECKOKO  rocyjapeTBa. YKpanHa, 4BIHHCb OJIIHM H3 rocyjlapers — ocnosarencit OOH, ceñuac kak 6b OGHOBIEHHON
22.4 CerorH#4 HEOCMOPpHMOË peallbHOCTbIO SBIASACTCH TO, UTO IpoÔOIEMbI AJariTallHH K HOBbIM  HCTOPHYECKHM YCHOBHSM CTAIlH TMEper BCeMH 6e3 HCKNIOYeHKA MOCYAPCTBAMH, UX COIO3AMH, CHCTEMOÏ  OGO%teyuHeHHbIx Hauxnñä. B aTOÜ CBHA3H MLI BHJHM OJHY H3 OCHOBHbIX 3alaY ABa/I[aTb IMIECTOË CECCHH  leneparsHoñ KondhepeHLHH B TOM, UTOÔbI HM€HHO MO] 3THM YIJIOM 3peHH# NOCMOTPETL Ha MecTO KOHECKO  B CErOMHSIIHÈM MHpë, KOJIICKTHBHO OINPpeE/CHHTL CC NPHOPHTCTHbIC 3AAWH Ha Onnañuiee Gyymee © TeM,  YTOÔbI Hama OpraHH3al{H# ocrapajach B pycle TOH IlO3HTHBHOÀ TEH/ICHI[HH, KOTOpasi XapakTepHa Jas  MHPOBOIO pa3BHTHA#.
22.5 B IlerloM, kak HaM npejacrasiasieTcss, B HCTEKIIEE asyxiietve IOHECKO orBevana BRI3OBAM BPCMEHH.  DBONIONHA OT KOH@POHTAI[HH K JJHAïlOry, OT KOH(IIMUKTOB K COTPY/[HHYECTBY, K OCO3HAHHIO CAHHCTBA H  B3AHMO3aBHCHMOCTH COBpeMeHHOro MHpa — BCE 3TH INpHMETbI HAXOHAH Oojce MIM MeHee pensehHoe  IpOSHBIIEHHE B pas3lIHYHbIX ACICKTAX JEATENLBHOCTH IOHECKO. Ceropus pasBHTHE MHPpOBbIX COOBITHUH BO  MHOFTOM 3ABHCHT OT TOrO, HACKOJBLKO iICOÔPATHMDbIH XapaKTep MpHOÔpeTYT IPOLECChI JEMOKpaTH3alHH B  CTpaHax, KOTOPbIE BCTa/TH Ha 3TOT IIYTL. Mory OTKPpOBEIIHO CKA3ATb, UTO TIPOILECC 3TOT HEMPOCTOH, MHOTOMY  IpHXOJHTCH YUYUTHCS, IEpéliKMaTb TO MOJNE3HOC, YTO HapaGOTaHO B 3TOM IVIaHe ApyrHMH IOCYJapCTBaMH.  IMapannenpiio BO3HHKA€T LEIbIK KOMILDIEKC INPOÔGICM, CBA3AHHbIX C MEpeXONOM K PhbIHOYHOÏ 3KOHOMHKE, B  TOM YHCHE H B OGACTHX Komnerennuu IOHECKO. Mul nonaraem, yro IOHECKO, ornpascb Ha cBoñ  HHTCIDIEKTYAJIbHbIÂ HOTEHLIHAï H OOaaH YHHKAJIbHLIM MUPOBLIM OIILITOM, MOrJa Obl BHECTH HEOILEHHMbIÂ  BKJaj B /JeJlIO COMEÂCTBHA pas3BHTHIO EMOKPATHH, PpAaCIPOCTPaHeHHA MYYILEFO OMbITA IMapHIaMeHTCKOÏ  KYJIbTyPLI, H3YUECHHA IHBHIH30BAHHbIX METO/OB YPCTYIHPOBAHHSH MOXHAIHOHA/IbHbIX KOH®HHKTOB. BbICOKas  KYJbTYpHas K IIPOCBCTHTCALCKAN MHCCHH OpralH3al}HH CHOCOGIA, Mbl 8 3TOM YÔCKIEHbI, OO bE THHUTL HAPOZbI  H TOCy[ApcTBA, CIOCOOCTBOBATb CO3AHHIO TOÏ pa3yMHOH cepnl OOHTAHHSH, KOTOPYIO Hall BEINHKHH yUEHbIN  Bepuajckuit assay Hoochepoñ.
22.6 l'osops 0 npiemne gesrennnocrd OHECKO, Mul € yloBaeTBOPEHUEM KOHCTATHPYEM ITO3UTHBHLIC  CABHMI'M B pa3BKTHH €BPOICHCKOTO COTPY/IHYECTBA, OTMEUCHIIbIe, B YACTHOCTH, TIONE3HOH paboTon  PerHoHa/rbHOro Gropo no HayKe H TeXHHKE JUIH Espono (Benes) H pyrux perdonanbiiblX HHCTHTYTOB.  [Monyuusitiee B MOCIENHEË BPCMH HMIYIBLC BHYTPHEBPOINCHCKOE COTPYIHHHECTBO B paMKax NporpamMHOH  NEHTENIBHOCTH OpraHH3allHH MO3BOHHCT BOCTOYHOCBPOIIEACKHM CTPAHAM pelIHTb, KaK MbiI HaJleeMcs, ps  BAXHEHLIHX BONpOCOB, OTHOCHINUXCH K OGNACTHM KOMICTEHLHH IOHECKO. Ykpauna, HeopnoxkpaTHO
3AHBIABIMAA O NPHBEPKEIHOCTH TIONOXKCHHAM IPHHATOFO B XENLCHHKH 3aKHIOUWHTENLHOTO akTa H Mapuxckoñ  XapTHH, paccMaTpHBacT 3TO COTPY/IIHYECTBO KAK OJIMH H3 3JIEMEHTOB HHTErpaiHH Esponbi, yrnybaenus  OGli1€eBporneHcKOro IIporlecca.
22.7 l'ocnoqux IIpencexarens, l'eneparnbHas KONdEpeHIHA NpU3BaHa onpeenuTh OauxaHinue  HEPpCHEKTHBbI KEHATEABHOCTH Opratn3airH. Ho jist aroro HCO6XO/[HMa OÔBEKTHBHAs OlieHKa MNporenaHHoro.  SaBepuIHIICH MEpBbIÀ IBYXETHHH NepHox TpeTrero cpeiecpoyHoro miata. O4eBUAHO, KaxXas fAelieraius,  FOTOBSICL K CECCHH, COCTABHIA J[OCTATOWHO TIONHYIO KapTHly TOro, YTO H3 HaMeuaBILIErocs YJAallOCb  OCYLIECTBHTL B 3TO CTapTOBO€ JABYXJETHUC, a YTO He NONYYHHOCL. Jloknan l'eneparbHOro mHpeKTOpa Takxe  HaeT oÔ6LIHpHy1O HHPOpMAIHIO K PasMbILIICHHIO. Jlymalo, YTO MOAPOOHbIÉ AHATH3 OyJeT CHEJAH 3KCINEPTAMH  B NPOrpaMMHBIX KOMHCCH#äX. MBI Xe MOXEM KOHCTATHPOBATb, YTO, HCCMOTPH Ha GIO/KETHbIE TPYAHOCTH,  IOHECKO ynaercs OOREJHHATL YCHIHH MEXIYHAPONHOFO COOÔLIECTBA BOKPyT MEpoIIpHATHäÉ NOHCTHHE  MHPOBOTO 3HaYerH#. To Npex(e Bcero hopyMbI B IbkomTrbene H 5IMacyKpo, KpynHOMacIITAOHbIA INPpoeKT  ”IerKoBbIA NYTL” H HaYaTas Iporpamma ”IOHECKO — “epHo6bI1b”. Hanuuo crpemiieHue Lupe  HpHBJCKATB K yuacTuio B pabore Opranusanuu HpCHCcTaBHTE1cH MHPpoBOH HHTENNEKTYAIbHOH 3HHThi.  Ou4eBUANO, YTO CTeNeHb 3TOFO YYACTHH 3ABHCHT, B ICPBYIO OUCPENb, HE CTOJbKO OT TOFO, KaKHE HOBbIE  OPpTaHbI MbI IIpeVIOXHM BMECTO CYIIECTBYIOINNX HIM B JOMNOJHEHHWe K HUM, a OT TOroô, HACKOJÆbKO  abcheKTHBHbIMH 6y7yT Npe/vIaraemble JOHECKO peulellHs, HACLILIICHHbIMH H IIPHBICKATCAbHBIMH — IPOESKThI  H IporpaMMbl. l'akaï B3AHMOCBH3L IIPHBOJHT K BLIBOJY: HHTC/LICKYTA/IbHäH H OIICPATHBHAH ACKTEIALHOCTD  IOHECKO jionxna CTPOHTLCH C YYUCTOM HOBCHIIMX MHPOBDIX JJOCTHXXCHHH B OGIACTAX €€ KOMNETEHIHH H,  Gonee Toro, C yYeTOM IPOI'HO3UPOBAIIMS HX ICPCICKTHBHONO passHTH4. Mie KaxeTcsl, UTO KOHIEIIHSA  CPENHECPOYHOFO IVIaHA, H3TOKCHHaH B DOPMY IC "MHP — OKPYXKalolllasl CpeFa — pa3BHTHe”, JaËT JUISI Toro  HCOOXO/HMBIC HPCATOChITKH. HaM Mpe/(CTaB:IHCTCH, YTO 3TO IPABUIBIOC HANpaBeHHe, H 3Ta TPHala OCTACTCH  aKTYA1bHOH IIPAKTHYECKH JIE BCCX TOCYTAPCTB-WTCHOB. [IpuMenureslnio K YKpaHHe MOXHO CKA3aTb, YTO B
3TY TPHajy BIHChIBAIOTCH XH3HCHHO BAXKIILIC 3A/[AUH, KOTOPDIE CTOSAT B HMACTOSIMEE® Bpems Iepes, HaHIicH  cTpaHoûn.
22.8 YKpauila, MporonxXaloN[as WCHLITBIBATL 601b H THXKyIO Topedb UYepHoOwbins, C ocoboit
3aHHTEPCCOBAHHOCTLIO OTHOCHTCH K IIPHPO/OOXPAIIHOMY ACHEKTY N(CHATENLHOCTH IOHECKO, akTHBIHO  yYaACTBYH B COOTBETCTBYIOLUMX IPpOrpaMMax H Ilpoekrax. MbI Giarojapinl rOCy/[APCTBAM-YICHAM, KOTOPbIC  HC OCTAJIHCb GE3YUACTHBIMH K HAIUCH BCHHKON Ge/le H, B YACTHOCTH, MO/YIEPKAIH COOTBETCTBYIOILHH IPOEKT  pe3ONIONHH. OT HMCHH MOHX COFpaxX/aH, Koro ne HOIM[AHI YepnoObilk H KTO yXe OLIYTHI CHAY  YCIOBCYUCCKOTO YMACTHA H CONH/APHOCTH, #H TOBOPIO! BLICOKKE uaeanst OHECKO TOpXCCTByIOT! 51 XOTEI  Obl NOBTOPHUTL B 3TOÏ cBA3M CHOBA l'eHeparbioro aupekropa o TOM, 4To UepHOOBUIL — HE TONLKO (hakT  levanbHoro npoimsoero. Ero 3x0 cule jonro 6yneT pas/aBaThCA Hay] Halllcl 3eMielt, H HaM IIpeJiCTOUT MHOTO  cAenarh JUis TOTO, 4YTOÔbI HAYHHTLCH COOÔIIIA 1peojjosieBaTh HeraTUBHLIE TIOCHENCTBHA 3TOH H NOAOOHDLIX  KaTacTpod. YKpauia Cc HaJIeXK/I0i CMOTPHT Ha pa3sBUTHC COTPY/[HHYCCTBA B 3TOH OGAACTH H OyjieT S1arogapna
22.9 locnogum Ilpepceparenn, OHECKO npopomkaeT OCTABATLCH YHHKANbIbIM ICHTPOM  aKKyMyJIHPOBAHH#H H pacHpocTpaheMHs HCpezlOBROro NéJarOrHHECKOrO OIMNbITA H 3HaHHÀ.
22.10 Tpyano nepeollenHTb H pon, MHECKO 8 o61acrH ECTCCTBCHHbIX HayK. YKpaxHa, HMC# GoraTbIÜ  ONBIT COTPYAHHYCCTBA B JLatlitOË cdepe, OCTACTCH AKTHBHDIM H 38HHTCPCCOBANTIBIM HAPTHEPOM TO CORMECTHbIM  HCCICHOBAHHAM B OGHACTH OHOTEXHONONHH, HHPOPMATHKH, MOPpCKHX HAYK, THIPOJIOTHH, réOJOTHH,  HHAOPMAIHH, KOMMICKCA (PyHIaMCUTanbibIX HAYK.
22.11  Mbl B MONNOÏ Mepe OCO3HACM HCKMIOYWHTCALHYIO KYALTYpHO-STHHECKYIO MHCCHIO IOHECKO.  KybrypHas UCHIOCTL MHPa B pa3HOOÔpa3HH HarHOHAAbHbIX KYAbTYP — BOT TOT ACHOMEH, KOTOPHIÉ TEXHT  B OCHOBe ICHTENLHOCTH OpranxsanuH. MMCHHO noaroMy ne Mory ne BbICKA3aTb Hallly O3aAGOYCHHOCTb MO  HMOBOAY TOO, UTO Mbl HAÔ/TIO/LAEM OIPpeFCACHHbIE TPY/MIOCTH B OCYLILCCTBAACHHH HAMCYCHHbIX MCPONPpHATHÉ  B OGHACTH KYJILTYPbI, B TOM UCC H pealid3alliu Helle TaKOH GecrIperiexeHTHON MOXA/[YHAPpOHHON KaMITAHHH,  Kak BCeMHpHOE IICCHTHICTHC Ppa3BHTHA Ky ILTYPDI.
22.12 Tlo HanieMy MICHHIO, CEPLÉ3IbIM NPOOCIOM KYJILTYPHOFO pastera IporpamMbl SBJIIHCTCH H  OTCYTCTBHE BIHHMAIIHH CO cropolibl KDHECKO K CHABSAICKHM KYTbTypaM, IpejcTaBIsIO NUM COGOË MOTI BI  H CAMOObITHbIÉ IDIACT MHpOBOR KyJILTYphI. Mb! HajeeMcd, Yro pelliciue MCIHOANHTEAbHOrO cosera,  OTMEYATOIICLE HOINPABOMEPHOCTL CTOIIL OHCBH/HOH HaKYHDI, ÔY/ET JIOMXKILIM 06pasoM YUYTCHO TIpH Jiopa-  GOTKe IIporpaMMbli.
22.14 Emme He Tax JaBHO 3TH CTCIHLI OLUTH CBHJCTCISIMH OCTPLIX B3AHKMHbIX YIPCKOB B UpesMepHon  MONHTH3aI[HH MMHECKO. Onnako, Kak IAM IIpC/(CTABIHCTCH, BPCMH OCJCIICHHOCTH HJ[CONOPMHYECKHMH  MHOCTYNATAMH H H3HYPHIOIICH KONMpoHNTAUHH pono. Cerofusi MbI MOXEM BCC BMCCTC CIOKOHHO  MpOaHAa1H3HPpOBaTb HPHYHHbl YTPpaTLI OpratH3ar[HCH CBOCH YHHBCPCATBHOCTH H TMONYMATb O TOM, Kak 3TH  MpHYHHbI YCTPEHHTb-
22.15  Hoxymenr 26 C/S narnsjuo NOKasbIBACT, TO YXKC IpexIpHHHMAlOTCH YCHIIMS K TOMY, “YTOÔbI  COCPEJIOTOMHUTDL pecypebl Ha HaHGONCe BAXHbIX OGHACTHX. BMECTE C TeM MbI NORJCPXUBACM IPC IOXCHHH,  HKYLIHE B HAIMpPABIEHHH COBEPITCHCTBOBANHH MCXAHH3MOB, KOTOPbIC NO3BOINU Obl rOCYKAPCTBAM-UHCHAM  Gonee achepekTHBHO YYACTBOBATB B OMCPATHBIHOË KOPppeKTHPOBKE OCYILECTBIEHHA TpOrpaMM B XOJe  HBYXHETH#H, OKA3bIBATb GONCE HCMOCPCICTBEHHOC BIHHHHE Ha PpelleHHe pasrHYHbIX BOINPOCOB  a/(MHHHCTPaTHBHO-(PHHAHCOBOKO H Ka/[poBOro xapakTepa. BMecTe ¢ TEM He HOJXHa ObITh B XOILE 3THX pechopM  KaK-TO YMEHbIIICHA BO3MOXHOCTL HaälllcH Opranusanuu B TIONHON Mepe HrpaTb IlpelonpeereHHyIO Ce  YCTABOM BCJYILYIO HHTEJLIEKTYA/IBHÿIO poh Bo BCCH CHCTEME OOH. T1oaToMy MbI C NOHHMAHHEM OTHOCHMCS  K MPEIOKCHUAM, CBA3AHHDIM C YKPCIVICHHCM HHTE/LIEKTYANLHOFO corpyauuiectsa B pamkax JOHECKO, ¢  [IPUBICHYCHHEM K y4YaCTHIO B CE IEHTENLHOCTH HAHÔO/CC BH/HbIX H yBa)KacMbIX Mpe/ICTaBHTENEH MHPOBOH  HayKH H KyJIbTypbl. OIAKO IPpHHHTHIO TAKUX TIpeVIOXCHHA MOMKCH IPEMILCCTBOBATh YUET H anajiu3 BCCX  BO3HHKAIOITHX IPH UX peaH3al]HH HOCIC/CTBHÉ H OXH/ACMbIX PC3yYHLTATOB B CRETE TOI'O OGIIHPHOTO ONLITA,  KOTOPhIH yXC nakomncn KOHECKO na IIpoTsDKCHHH CC IOWTH HOJIYBEKOBOH HCTOPHH.
22.16 DB cBoeM BbicrymnieHkK, rocnogun Mpenceratesrb, si XOTEN KOCHYTbCH HE TO:IbKO BONPOCOB OOLIEH  TONHTHKH OprannsauHH, MecTra IDHECKO B COBpeMellHoM MHPe, HO H BbIPa3HTb HAILIH COMEpexHBAIHA 3a  Oynyuiee Toit OpraHH3alHH.
22.17 Mul BbICTYMACM 3a HOBbILI€HHE porn KOHECKO, ce 3®PeKTHBHOCTH B yKpPEIIC HUM MEX/[YHAPONHOTO  COTPYJ[HHYECTBA B OGTACTH OOPA3OBANHs, HAYKH H KYJbTyphi. [3i1arojapio Bac.
(22.1) Mr MAKAREVICH (Ukraine) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, in associating myself with the  congratulations already extended to you, I would like, as previous speakers have done, to express the hope that  the work of the present session will, under your leadership, be crowned with success. I am convinced that the  decisions we take will give a fresh impetus to the work of UNESCO, which is today carrying out its mandate in  conditions in which the course of events and the dynamics of world processes are moving with unprecedented  speed. The delegation of Ukraine greets the admission of Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu to membership of  our Organization and wishes the peoples of those countries well-being and prosperity.
(22.2) Mr President, in the two years since the last session of the General Conference sweeping changes have  occurred in the world political climate. Not only have they affected the fate of individual countries and regions  but they have also, without exaggeration, altered the whole system of relationships existing in the world at the  end of the twentieth century. These worldwide political and social changes represent a natural, objective step  forward in the development of humankind, reflecting the age-old aspiration of the peoples towards independence  and fulfilment of the right to free development. We note with satisfaction that a predominant feature in these  changes is the trend towards democratization, the affirmation of the unconditional primacy of values common to  the whole of humankind, and a recognition of the intellectual and moral oneness of the world.
(22.3) The date 24 August 1991 was a turning-point in the history of Ukraine: it was then that the Parliament  of the Republic proclaimed independence and the establishment of an independent, democratic Ukrainian State.  Ukraine, which was one of the founding States of the United Nations, now as it were steps forward renewed into  the world, holding out the hand of friendship and co-operation to all who wish to build constructive relations with  it.
(22.4) Itis an indisputable fact at present that all States without exception, alliances of States and the United  Nations system are faced with the problems of adapting new historical circumstances. We therefore see one of the  main tasks before the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference as being to look at UNESCO's place in the  contemporary world from this angle and to determine collectively its priority tasks for the immediate future, in  order that our Organization may remain in the mainstream of the encouraging trend in world development.
(22.5) As we see it, UNESCO has on the whole in the course of the past biennium met the challenges of the  times. The progression from confrontation towards dialogue, from conflict towards co-operation and towards a  recognition of the unity and interdependence of the contemporary world - all these features have been to a greater  or lesser extent emphasized in the various aspects of UNESCO's work. How world events develop now depends to  a great extent on the degree of irreversibility of democratization processes in those countries that have set out on  that road. I may say quite frankly that this is a difficult process, there is much to be learned and anything useful  that has been worked out in other countries in this respect needs to be adopted. At the same time a whole set of  problems is arising in connection with the change-over to a market economy, including problems within  UNESCO's fields of competence. We believe that UNESCO, by virtue of its intellectual potential and its unique  worldwide experience, could make an invaluable contribution to the promotion of democratic development, to the  dissemination of the best lessons of experience in the workings of a parliamentary system, and to the study of  civilized methods of settling inter-ethnic conflicts. The lofty cultural and educational mission of the Organization  is, we are convinced, capable of uniting peoples and States, and promoting the establishment of that realm of  reason which our great scientist Vernadsky called the noosphere.
(22.6) With regard to UNESCO's present activities, we note with satisfaction positive steps in the development  of European co-operation, marked in particular by the useful work of the Regional Office for Science and  Technology for Europe (Venice) and other regional institutions. Co-operation within Europe in the framework of  the Organization's programme activities, which has recently received a fresh impetus, will, we hope, help the  countries of Eastern Europe to solve a number of the most important questions relating to UNESCO's fields of  competence. Ukraine, which has frequently declared its adherence to the provisions of the Helsinki Final Act and  the Charter of Paris, regards this co-operation as one of the elements of European integration and of the further  development of the general European process.
(22.7) The General Conference has to decide upon the Organization's activities for the near future, but this  requires an objective assessment of what has already been done. The first two years of the third Medium-Term  Plan are over. Each delegation, in preparing for the session, has obviously worked out quite a full picture of the  planned activities that it was possible to carry out during this initial biennium and those it was not possible to  carry out. The Director-General's report has also given us a great deal of information to think over. The detailed  analysis will no doubt be carried out by experts in the programme commissions. We for our part can note that, in  spite of budgetary difficulties, UNESCO is succeeding in uniting the efforts of the international community  around measures of genuinely worldwide significance. Foremost among these have been the Conferences in  Jomtien and Yamassoukro, the large-scale 'Silk Roads’ project and the launching of the UNESCO-Chernobyl  programme. Efforts have been made to involve representatives of the intellectual élite of the world more widely in  the work of the Organization. The extent of their participation will obviously depend, in the first instance, not so  much on what new bodies we propose in place of the existing ones or in addition to them, but on how effective  are the solutions put forward by UNESCO and how substantial and attractive are the projects and programmes.  This interrelationship implies that UNESCO's intellectual and operational activities should take account of the  most recent achievements in its fields of competence and also of forecasts as to their future development. The  concept expressed in the Medium-Term Plan by the formula 'Peace-environment-development’ seems to me to  provide the necessary pre-conditions for this. We consider that this is the right direction to take and that these  three subjects remain matters of pressing concern to practically all the Member States. As regards Ukraine, it may  be said that the vitally important tasks facing our country at the present time fall under these three headings.
(22.8) Ukraine, which continues to bear the pain and grief of Chernobyl, takes a particular interest in the  aspect of UNESCO's activity relating to protection of the environment, and plays an active part in the  corresponding programmes and projects. We are grateful to the Member States, who did not remain indifferent to  our great distress and, in particular, supported the corresponding draft resolution. On behalf of my many fellow  citizens who suffered from Chernobyl and who have experienced the force of sympathy and solidarity, I say that  this is a triumph for the lofty ideals of UNESCO. I would like in this connection to repeat what was said by the  Director-General to the effect that Chernobyl is not simply a sad event of the past. Its after-effects will long  continue to be felt in our land and much remains to be done in order to learn how - together - to overcome the
23.2  unfortunate consequences of this and similar disasters. Ukraine looks with hope upon the development of co-  operation in this field and will be grateful for any assistance.
(22.9) Mr President, UNESCO continues to be a unique centre for the accumulation and dissemination of  advanced experience and knowledge in the field of education.
(22.10) It is also difficult to overestimate UNESCO's role in the natural sciences. Ukraine, which has rich  experience of co-operation in that field, remains an active and interested partner in joint research in the areas of  biotechnology, informatics, marine sciences, hydrology, geology, information and the fundamental sciences.
(22.11) We arc fully aware of UNESCO's exceptional cultural and ethical mission. The cultural wealth of the  world as expressed in the variety of national cultures lies at the basis of the Organization's activity. For that very  reason, I cannot but express our concern at certain difficulties we observe in the implementation of the measures  foreseen in the field of culture, including the achievement of the aims of such an unprecedented international  campaign as the World Decade for Cultural Development.
(22.12) In our opinion, the lack of attention on UNESCO's part to Slav cultures, which occupy a large and  original place in world culture, likewise represents a serious deficiency in the cultural side of its programme. It is  our hope that the Executive Board decision remarking on the anomalous nature of such an obvious omission will  be duly taken into account in the finalization of the programme.
(22.13) Mr President, in connection with our assessment of the present and future programmes as a whole, we  should also remurk upon UNESCO's useful activities in the matter of arranging wide international exchanges in  various fields of knowledge. Every encouragement should continue to be given to this activity.
(22.14) Not so very long ago sharp mutual recriminations were to be heard within these walls and UNESCO  was unduly politicized, but we believe that the days of being blinded by ideologies and of wearisome  confrontations are now past. We are now able, all of us together, calmly to analyse the causes of the loss by the  Organization of its universality, and to think about ways of eliminating those causes.
(22.15) Document 26 C/5 clearly shows that efforts are already being made to concentrate resources in the most  important fields. At the same time we support the proposals aimed at improving the mechanisms whereby  Member States can participate more actively in the in-course correction of programme implementation during the  biennium, and exercise a more immediate influence on the solution of various administrative, financial and staff  questions. While these reforms are being carried out, the Organization should maintain an undiminished capacity  for playing to the [ull the leading intellectual role in the United Nations system as a whole that its Constitution  assigns to it. It is for this reason that we look with understanding upon the proposals connected with the  strengthening of intellectual co-operation within UNESCO and with the involvement in its activities of the most  eminent and highly respected representatives of world science and culture. The adoption of those proposals must,  however, be preceded by consideration and analysis of all the consequences arising from their implementation  and of the expected results, in the light of the wide experience that UNESCO has built up in the course of its  nearly 50 years of existence.
(22.16) In my remarks, Mr President, I would like not only to touch upon questions of the Organization's general  policy and UNESCO's place in the contemporary world, but also to express the feelings that we share for the  future of the Organization.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Ukraine for his statement and for having kept within the time-limit  for speeches.
(23.2) This brings us to the conclusion of this morning's meeting. We would inform the heads of delegations  and all the delegates that the meeting this afternoon will begin at 3 p.m. sharp.  La séance est levée à 13 h.25  The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 13.25
3aceanne 3aKpbiBaerc4 B 13.25  EVTS| sas VA CR NINES NTRS  SW T 1384254} 4k 8