Vingt-cinquième séance plénière
6 novembre 1991, à 10h.15  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Twenty-fifth plenary meeting
19911156 B, L0Bf154  OR: REBEEE (FRE)
759   INSCRIPTION D'UN NOUVEAU POINT A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  INCLUSION IN THE AGENDA OF A NEW ITEM  INCLUSION EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA DE UN NUEVO PUNTO  BKJIIOYEHHE HOBOTO MYHKTA B MOBECTKY [HS  Jae] Jyan hb agde ais los)  Ki Im — AF 80 RR TH El
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, may I declare the twenty-fifth plenary meeting open. Before moving on to  examine the report of Commission II, I would like to inform you that at this morning's meeting, the General  Committee decided to recommend to the plenary to add a new item to the agenda of the General Conference.  The title of this item is ‘Appeal for the Gorée-Almadies Memorial’. If the plenary agrees to this inclusion, it  would become item 15.7 and would be dealt with in plenary tomorrow morning. I see no objections.
1.2 It is so decided.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  JIOKJIAJT KOMHCCHH II: PE3ONIOWNHH H PEKOMEHIALIHA  lia gill y l,l all : Lol Ga yu ,d5  BIE RSR : VX IL FUEL
2,1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now turn to the adoption of the report of Commission IT, The two documents we have to  consider bear the following reference numbers: 26 C/139 and 26 C/139 Add. and Corr. I would like to suggest  that we adopt this report in parts and not paragraph by paragraph.
2.2 I now give the floor to Mr Shuaib Almansuri, Chairman of Commission II, who will make a general  introduction of his Commission's report. Mr Almansuri, you have the floor.
3.1 Mr ALMANSURI (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Chairman of Commission IE:  Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the General Conference, Honourable Chairman of  the Executive Board, Mr Director General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it  gives me great pleasure to present the report of Commission II. This report is the result of extraordinary team  work among the delegations of Member States, the members of the Secretariat, the representative of the  Director-General and the officers of the Commission: its Vice-Chairmen, Mr A.N.M. Eusuf (Bangladesh),  Mr Alexandar Boytchev (Bulgaria), Mr Umberto Belli (Nicaragua) and Professor Agavia Wandira (Uganda);  its Rapporteur, Mr Guilherme d'Oliveira Martins (Portugal).
3.2 Through you, Mr President, I would like to commend to the appreciation of the plenary all those  involved for their valuable contributions, their hard work and, above all, for the friendly enthusiasm which  permeated our meetings. This created an excellent atmosphere of co-operation and professional understanding,  enabling us to finish our heavy work-load on schedule, with only one extended session.
33 Mr President, as the delegates have before them the report concerning the decisions taken and bave  had time to study it, it does not seem recessary for me to make a detailed presentation of it. Rather, I would like  to report on the general debate. 1
34 Following from what I just said about the friendly spirit of co-operation, which ! am sure will have left  a lasting impression on all who participated, I would like to refer to the general consensus concerning the  appropriateness and quality of Major Programme Area I: there was unanimous support for the underlying  themes of "Towards basic education for all’, and for Mobilizing Project 1 ‘Combating illiteracy’, as well as for  the intersectoral project "The young child and the family environment’. There were a few proposals for  relatively minor modifications in the activities.
3.5 Finally, as far as my general remarks are concerned, I would like to say how encouraging it was that,  despite the overall financial restraints which are always with all of us, many Member States made offers to be  of assistance to each other and to co-operate with the Secretariat in the execution of the programme.
3.6 Mr President, we are now prepared to present our report. The material which Commission II brings to  the plenary for its consideration today consists basically of two elements: an oral report on our discussions and  the draft report which you have before you. The work of Commission II was divided into two parts.  Programme 1.1, Mobilizing Project 1 and the intersectoral project on "The young child and the family  environment constituted the first part. The rest of Major Programme Area I, plus accompanying items,  constituted the second part. With your permission, Mr President, we propose to present our report in three  parts, the first two corresponding to the two parts of the discussion and the third corresponding to the major  programme area as a whole. The first part concerns essentially the struggle against illiteracy, and the second  part various aspects of education for the twenty-first century, policy and planning, and the work of the three  institutes: the International Bureau of Education, the International Institute for Educational Planning and the  UNESCO Institute for Education.  Pri ilizing Proj inter I  Th ng child an il i '- ion  rall co-ordination
3.7 Commission IL of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO engaged in  consideration of the means and objectives of basic education for all and action to combat illiteracy.
3.8 In the view of many speakers, UNESCO has to strengthen the prime role it plays as the catalyst of  inter-agency co-operation in respect of basic education. UNESCO will have to take on this role not only by  reason of its formal terms of reference but also because of the quality and effectiveness of its work. The  National Commissions afford it key support and will continue to do so. Stress was also laid in our discussions  on the importance of the non-governmental organizations, working in co-operation with UNESCO and  necessarily with its support, in a bid to see them play a more important operational role. The organization of  round-table meetings on education for all and success at school was one of the main activities of countries in  the post-Jomtien period. Particular interest was shown in the International Forum on Education for All, to be  held at Headquarters in December 1991.  I: 1-Pr 1on of li n 1
3.9 Virtually all speakers approved the objectives laid down in this programme and the activities planned,  in view of the absolute priority attached to basic education for all with its aim of eradicating illiteracy, which is  a major impediment to the development and progress of societies and individuals alike.
3.10 — The salient points that can be summarized from our discussions are as follows: (1) The budget  allocated to the eradication of illiteracy is still insufficient, having regard to the scale of the problem and the  magnitude of the requirements. (2) It is necessary to pursue and step up the momentum generated by  International Literacy Year and the Jomtien Conference, to evaluate the results obtained and to continue to give  priority to literacy for women and the education of girls in the least developed countries, especially those most  severely affected by illiteracy. (3) From the teaching standpoint, literacy and post-literacy training are  complementary stages and their development can only be visualized in terms of continuing education. The  twofold approach defined by UNESCO should be pursued, amplified and adopted throughout, especially in  countries with low school enrolment ratios. (4) Each country should, in the light of its own circumstances,  decide on the educational content and teaching methodology it proposes to apply in order to attain the  objectives of education for all, in particular through the establishment and consolidation, at national level, of  interdisciplinary and inter-institutional partnerships in favour of basic education. (5) It is essential to introduce  components of technical education or of vocational or pre-vocational training into literacy and adult education  programmes in order to make basic educational attainments more functional. (6) The evaluation of curricula  contents, methods and learning outcomes is an activity that cannot be dissociated from the education process.  UNESCO's programme has to make it possible to strike a balance between reflection and action. (7) The  priority areas for international co-operation are dissemination of information and the exchange of experiences,  curricula design, preparation of educational and teaching materials, publication of methodological guides,  training of trainers, and advisory services for drawing up or recasting national strategies, together with the  strengthening of regional or subregional programmes; and (8) offers of co-operation for implementing the
25   programme were made in the following specific areas: the creation or strengthening of specialized literacy and  adult education networks, research activities, pilot projects for post-literacy training and continuing education  for adults, and literacy activities and continuing education for women.  rogr 2:T i i
3.11 Delegates also underscored the need for and difficulty entailed in reconciling the requirements of  universalization and quality, in view of the cutback in available resources dictated by the adverse economic  situation, especially in the developing countries.
3.12 Universal quality primary education is still the stepping-stone to the eventual eradication of illiteracy  and the key to economic and social development. Henceforward, Mr President, priority has to be given to  groups that are most underprivileged or are left out of the mainstream. In this connection, delegates advocated  the adoption of innovative non-traditional and multisectoral approaches, which are the only ones capable of  catering properly for the wide variety of educational needs of these groups. In particular, a large number of  delegates mentioned disabled children, who have specific educational needs and who, they recommended,  should be integrated into ordinary schools by way of a strategy likely to end the marginalization to which they  are exposed and cater for their educational needs.
3.13 Schooling should accordingly foster the all-round development of children and contribute to the  eradication of illiteracy by teaching children to read, write, perform calculations and develop a sense of  awareness. Curricula reform should continue to be based on monitoring and assessment.
3.14 — The quality of education and that of teachers go hand in hand. À large number of delegates expressed  their regret at the very scant resources allocated to this subsector and considered that a significant effort had to  be made both nationally and internationally in favour of teacher training. One way of doing this could be  through distance education, taking account of the specific needs and environment of the teachers. Speakers also  laid stress on the relationship between school and the community, the improvement of that tie being a factor in  ensuring quality.
3.15 To this effect, the delegates signified their support for the proposed activities and encouraged  UNESCO to step up its co-operation with other partners, particularly UNICEF, UNDP, the World Bank and the  bilateral co-operation agencies. Such co-operation is desired as much for analysing problems and developing  strategies and mechanisms to deal with them as for monitoring and evaluation purposes. UNESCO was invited  to compile and disseminate information on innovations, especially those relating to the intersectoral approach  to universalization, inexpensive material production models, teacher training, access to education for  underprivileged groups, and assessment systems.  n roject - Th i famil 1 '
3.16 Stress was laid ir Commission IT on the importance of adopting an integrated approach in order to  ensure the development of young children and the family environment, having regard to the intersectoral and  inter-institutional nature of the project, and it was considered desirable to foster even closer co-operation with  UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA, the non-governmental organizations and extra-budgetary funding sources.
3.17 Five major themes were identified in this area: (i) support for activities connected with the  psychological and social rehabilitation of children and parents subjected to severe stress as a result of armed  conflicts and disasters such as that of Chernobyl; (Gi) support for disabled children and their parents, in  particular through the preparation of training programmes using new technologies suited to the communities  involved; (iii) support for the design, testing and evaluation of innovative low-cost community programmes,  with a high degree of participation by parents and families generally; (iv) training, by means of regional  workshops, of young women working in community pre-school establishments; and (v) the importance of  continuing the international collection and dissemination of information on young children and the family  environment,
3.18 This, Mr President, concludes the first part of my presentation.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your presentation, Mr Almansuri. We have now to adopt the section of the report  relating to Part I of the discussion (paragraphs 1 to 14) and to its Addendum and Corrigendum. We shall look  at this section in two parts: paragraphs 1 to 4 and paragraphs 5 to 14,
4.2 Paragraphs 1 to 4 are purely introductory and concern the work of the Commission as a whole. I now  submit to you this part of the report. Are there any objections? There seem to be none.
4.3 Paragraphs 5 to 14 pertain to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, Paragraph 6 presents a  resolution proposed in document 26 C/76 and recommended for adoption. Paragraph 9 presents amendments to  operative subparagraph 2(a) of resolution 1.1 (26 C/5, paragraph 01002) recommended for adoption.  Paragraphs 12 and 13 present resolutions proposed in DRs and recommended for adoption.
4.4 I now submit to you this part of the report. I see no objections.
4.5 May I then consider that, as regards Part 1 of Commission II's report, the General Conference adopts  the relevant parts of the resolutions proposed in document 26 C/5 as amended by the Commission; takes note of  the work plan in the C/5 document; and adopts the resolutions in paragraphs 12 and 13.
4.6 It is so decided.
4.7 Mr Almansuri will now present the next part of the report  Progr L2 - ion for nty-fir n
5.1 Mr ALMANSURI (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Chairman of Commission II:  Mr President, in connection with the Education for the twenty-first century; higher education’ and  ‘Promoting the advancement of education’ programmes, a large number of delegates stressed the need for  educational reform, with a view to gearing teaching programmes and methods to the problems and trends of the  twenty-first century, and approved of the activities proposed under Programme 1.2. Most of them welcomed the  creation of the Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century and said they considered that it could  help enhance UNESCO's intellectual role in education, although the importance of current problems and the  difficulties involved in resolving them should not be underestimated. Several delegates considered that it would  be desirable to ensure equitable representation on the Commission as regards both geocultural and sex  distribution.
5.2 Most of the delegates who referred to educational reform also considered that the bumanistic, ethical,  cultural and international dimensions of education should be strengthened when it comes to developing a new  concept of education for the twenty-first century and drawing up the programme content. Several speakers  accordingly approved of the proposed programme for science and technology teaching and called on UNESCO  to increase the funds allocated to it.
5.3 Some delegates felt that international education should be a key theme of the International Conference  on Education in 1994 and that that Conference should also consider the question of the revision of the 1974  Recommendation, 20 years after its adoption.
5.4 A number of delegates stressed the important role played by the Associated Schools system in  international education and the importance for a multilingual approach of language teaching and the  LINGUAPAX project, along with the role played by that project in the promotion of international and  intercultural understanding.
5.5 Out of the 93 delegates who took the floor during the debate on education and the world of work,
59 expressed their support for the efforts deployed by UNESCO in this area and underscored both its  importance and its relevance for socio-economic development and human resources development alike.
5.6 There was widespread support among the delegates for an international project in technical and  vocational education. Some of them requested concerted co-ordination and co-operation between UNESCO and  the other agencies and institutions active in this field, such as the International Labour Organisation. Some  speakers voiced their concern at the reduction in the allocation for this activity and requested that it be  increased for the next biennium and thereafter. Many speakers even requested the reintroduction of a  subprogramme on ‘education and the world of work’.
5.7 The draft programme on physical education and sport elicited a broad consensus, since it was regarded  as a factor for peace and personal development that safeguarded both ethical values and the principles of a  healthy and balanced life. The Commission approved of the amendment of the International Charter and the  convening of an expert meeting to study the possible adoption of an international instrument against doping in  sport. The project to broaden and step up the relevant activities throughout UNESCO's programme during the
1994-1995 biennium (27 C/5) was supported by the Commission. Action to combat drugs and drug addiction  was also one of the speakers’ concerns.
5.8 Several delegates also recalled the importance of secondary education, which should feature more  conspicuously in UNESCO's future programmes,
5.9 Virtually all the speakers approved of the objectives laid down in the higher education programme. A  number of main lines of thrust emerged from the debate. The delegates expressed their support for the  development and strengthening of inter-university co-operation through the setting up of networks, especially  under UNESCO's new UNITWIN project. The activities undertaken should be designed to give priority to the  needs of the developing countries.
5.10 Support for teacher training at all levels and in all areas was seen as being a key driving force behind  the development of education, and the Secretariat was requested to pursue and strengthen its co-operation with  ILO and the non-governmental organizations of the teaching profession within the framework of the 1966  Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers, whose scope would have to be broadened to include higher  education. In addition, pursuant to the wish expressed by many Member States, UNESCO should study the  possibility of organizing a world teachers’ day and creating a prize for outstanding work in that field.
5.11 Mr President, special attention was devoted to educational techniques, especially distance education.  Some speakers suggested that UNESCO should make more vigorous efforts to seek extra-budgetary funds to  promote this form of education.
5.12 Several speakers highlighted the need to increase the contribution made by educational research to  improvement of the performance of education systems. A prerequisite for this was the strengthening of national  research capacities. Research in both adult and basic education was important, as well as research on  educational examination systems and curriculum development.
5.13 The Commission agreed to the implementation and, in some instances, the strengthening of the  activities proposed under Programme 1.3. All in all, these activities were seen as providing support for the  development of education in all the areas covered by Programmes 1.1 and 1.2.
5.14 The importance of drawing up appropriate and consistent strategies was borne out all through the  discussions on the different subprogrammes. Stress was laid on the difficulties entailed in defining educational  strategies in a national context marked by structural adjustment, the foreign debt burden and the economic  crisis. Several speakers stated that they expected a great deal in that regard from the follow-up to the co-  operation fostered by the regional ministerial conferences.
5.15 The speakers stressed the need to strengthen national capacities for the integrated strategic planning of  education and training systems with the support of IIEP, whose role was regarded as essential; the same was  noted concerning the roles of IBE and UIE.
5.16 Several delegates, Mr President, mentioned the importance of operational action in education. One  delegate even voiced concern at the fact that the increased emphasis placed on 'upstream’ action might result in  project implementation action being discontinued, and considered it advisable to ensure that a balanced policy  was adopted in that respect: it was necessary for the Secretariat to increase its efficiency in project  implementation.
5.17 Interest was quite clearly displayed in activities connected with the financial management of  education, particularly with regard to the diversification of funding sources, although the State should continue  to play an overwhelming role in that respect, in order to ensure that there is equitable access to education.
5.18 If improved services are to be ensured for the Education for all' programme, it will consequently be  absolutely necessary to create suitable buildings for schools by producing reasonably priced multi-purpose  architectural designs based on self-reliance and the development of national capacities. Several speakers  expressed their satisfaction at the assistance UNESCO has provided for restoring, reconstructing and  maintaining educational buildings damaged by natural disasters.
5.19 The importance of environmental education was particularly highlighted as being a basic factor in the  creation of humanistic education, in which, moreover, emphasis always had to be placed on citizenship. Human  rights and the dignity of the individual were the necessary foundations of education.
5.20 — Basic education for girls and women was a major preoccupation of most of the speakers, as was  support for the relevant programme action.
5.21 — Education was a task for both the present and the future. The task, as Rabelais said, was ‘to build  living stones that arc men’: moral values, humanism, life skills, know-how, the alliance of technology and  science, the safeguarding of dignity, fundamental rights, cultural differences, the environment, equality, justice  and solidarity - none of these values was overlooked by our Commission. The priority attached to education is  now beyond dispute. We are all called upon to act accordingly.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Almansuri. We now have to adopt the section of the report relating to Part 2 of the  discussion (paragraphs 15 to 42) and to its Addendum and Corrigendum. I! propose to divide this into three  parts; paragraphs 15 to 17, paragraphs 18 to 23 and paragraphs 24 to 42.
6.2 Paragraphs 15 to 17 are introductory comments and I submit this part to you. I see no objections.
6.3 Paragraphs 18 to 23 concern items 4.4, 6.3, 6.5, 6.7, 6.8 and 14.2 and the five resolutions concerning  them which the Commission recommends that we adopt.
6.4 I now submit this part of the report to the plenary. There seem to be no objections.
6.5 Paragraphs 24 to 42 pertain to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 and are divided up as  follows: paragraphs 24, 26, 27 and 28 concern decisions taken in relation to documents 26 C/77, 26 C/NOM/6,
26 C/84, 26 C/108 and 26 C/109; paragraphs 31 to 33 concern resolutions proposed in document 26 C/5;  paragraphs 30, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 42 refer to resolutions proposed in DRs submitted by Member States; and
25   paragraph 41 concerns resolutions proposed by Member States with substantial financial implications and  indicates the manner in which Commission II's share of the $1.5 million Reserve for Draft Resolutions was  allocated.
6.6 I now submit to you this part of the report. Any comments or objections? There seem to be none.
6.7 May I then consider that, as regards Part 2, the General Conference adopts the recommendations  relating to resolutions in DRs submitted by Member States; adopts the recommendations relating to resolutions  concerning items 4.4, 6.3, 6.5, 6.7 and 6.8; adopts the recommendations relating to documents 26 C/77,
26 C/80, 26 C/84, 26 C/108, 26 C/109 and 26 C/NOM/6; adopts the relevant parts of the resolutions proposed  in document 26 C/5 as amended by the Commission; and takes note of the work plan in the C/5 document.
6.8 It is so decided.
6.9 I shall once again invite Mr Almansuri to continue his presentation of the Commission's report.
7.1 Mr ALMANSURI (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Chairman of Commission IT:  Thank you, Mr President. The final part of our report, paragraphs 43 to 49, concerns Major  Programme Area I as a whole. Paragraph 43 proposes the adoption of the whole of the proposed resolution  concerning Major Programme Area I. You have already adopted the elements concerned with Programme 1.1  (paragraph 9 of this report), and Programmes 1.2 and 1.3 (paragraph 31 of this report). Paragraphs 44 to 46  concern the proposed resolutions for the International Bureau of Education, the International Institute for  Educational Planning and the UNESCO Institute for Education. You have already adopted amended versions,  in paragraphs 32 and 33, of the first two resolutions. Paragraph 47 concerns the text of document 26 C/5 and  paragraph 48 other documents presented to Commission II.
7.2 This, Mr President, concludes my presentation of Commission II's report. And if you will allow me, as  this will be the last time I take the floor, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words in Arabic.  (The Chairman of Commission II continued in Arabic)  Ja l¥ 1 eluad ly salaaldy cpladl auld wally agua J (ganie ASS puis GF aol pail) gua 188 VY  old) asl) le pT pSliais le rdaand) sauially SIG pla) AG 5AI slaely @iaiiill Gulal) sled  HI Gell Galant! Yo) Llael 0 of Lali) Tall pK Lo Gl Jail oF coulis) (gaa aly ASUS Gall  ssh 50 eLacl ol 053008 595 sshd) sled Gul GUI pols) Jia Lin cde 5S 58 OÙ 1 pis 35e Ge LAST GSS  goasll Vin a Jui of wal ¥ LAINE El) SU, Gulaally pla YU Iya Ll) alll a  All Gall) la all sph 5) pasa pal, SAIS Galland Gane De paish of iS  Set gd) TLaY 8385 HS) padi sland ASS sis Elu) Gf Gudeg pe Al gan past oF sols VUE  [KE ailly GLY) le apisba asl od Gadd) slac¥l o¥3a JA) eld saad) sadly Jess dale 35 pian  pesally Janda Ala La, TUL Goh le elbiand (of gan 1330S wilh Lal) Gall LS 4,680]  U papas paaS Vols pals All) YUL 1050S uid Loan Gale papa GaaSal (Al) Surf sJUES le  Glad LS nant! ia ASS wash of adh add punt Sara  valable Lol Baladly pli] ual] wall LSAT oF aly 5381 Bra pSSAT II out) gun LGR, V,0  Gsjlsls Gras he a dsl] stall VS a had] Gall gadaladl fa ASIN és Hall pol lin, (sail!
(7.3) Thank you, Mr President. I would like to extend my sincere thanks and appreciation to you as well as to  the Director-General and the distinguished members of the Executive Board and the General Conference for  taking cognizance of the final report of Commission II. I must reiterate here, Mr President, what I have said on  several occasions: the work of Commission H could not have been completed without the unstinting co-operation  given by all the delegates without exception. All members of the delegations represented in Commission II were  models of commitment and enthusiasm and exhibited rare brilliance and creativity during the discussions. I can  do no more than extend my heartfelt thanks and deep appreciation to all the delegations which took part in  Commission II.
(7.4) Mr President, to avoid any embarrassment I will not mention any names; but I would like to express my  warmest thanks and appreciation to the UNESCO Secretariat as a whole, beginning with the Director-General  and including more particularly those staff members who formed the administrative secretariat of Commission II,  and whose spirit of co-operation I will never forget. Every one of them was a model of devotion to their work and  of commitment to the UNESCO traditions to which we all adhere and are keen to preserve. Without their  dedication and diligence, it would not have been possible for me, as Chairman of the Commission, to present this  excellent report.
(7,5) Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you once again and to thank the Director-General, the  members of the Executive Board and all the staff members - translators, interpreters, administrative staff and  technicians - who toiled behind the scenes to facilitate our work. I wish you all success.
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I propose that we look at this part of the report, paragraphs 43 to 49, as a whole.
8.2 I must remind you again that the figure of the proposed budget we are to adopt (paragraph 49) was  subject to adjustment in the light of the decisions that were taken yesterday by the joint meeting of the five  programme commissions and the Administrative Commission. That meeting recommended that the budgetary  provision in 26 C/5 Approved for Major Programme Area I be set at $80,987,300, an increase of $822,700 over  the figure in Draft 26 C/5 and in paragraph 49. The General Conference, meeting in plenary tomorrow, will  adopt the Appropriation Resolution.
8.3 Are there any objections to the adoption of this part of the report? I see none.
8.4 May I then consider that, as regards Major Programme Area I and Mobilizing Project 1, the General  Conference adopts the complete resolution proposed in document 26 C/5 as amended by the Commission;  approves the budget proposed in the C/5 document and as amended by the joint meeting of the five programme  commissions and the Administrative Commission; and takes note of the work plan in the C/5 document?
8.5 It is so decided.
8.6 Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore terminated the adoption of the report of Commission II. I  should like to thank you all for your co-operation and thank in particular Mr Almansuri, Chairman of  Commission II, for his very comprehensive and clear presentation. Thank you.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  IOKJIAN KOMHCCHH III: PE3ONIOWHH H PEKOMEH/ALIHH  lue yi lad: RSI AUS pa  EDÉREMIRE : À LME IX
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now turn our attention to the examination of the report of Commission III which deals with  Major Programme Area II: "Science for progress and the environment’. The two documents we have to consider  bear the following reference numbers: 26 C/140 and 26 C/140 Add. & Corr.
9.2 I now give the floor to Mr Seddoh, Chairman of Commission III, who will make a general introduction  to his Commission's report.
10.1 M. SEDDOH (Togo), président de la Commission III :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Honorable Président de la Conférence générale, honorable  Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, distingués délégués, Mesdames et  Messieurs, permettez-moi de saisir cette occasion pour remercier la Conférence générale de m'avoir fait  l'honneur de m'élire président de la Commission III, dont je présente le rapport ce matin.
10.2 — Conformément aux décisions de la Conférence générale, la Commission III a examiné, lors de ses  travaux, le champ majeur de programme II "La science et le progrès pour l'environnement”. À sa deuxième  séance, le 24 octobre, la Commission a élu à l'unanimité 4 vice-présidents : M. Rachid Ouahmed (Algérie) ;
25   M. Gabor Vida (Hongrie) ; M. Reza Maknoon (République islamique d'Iran) et M. C. A. Voûte (Pays-Bas). La  Commission a également élu un rapporteur en la personne de M. Miguel Laufer, du Venezuela.
10.3 Entre le 24 octobre et le 30 octobre, la Commission a consacré 10 séances à l'examen du champ majeur  de programme II. Une séance a été consacrée le lundi 4 novembre à l'examen et à l'adoption du rapport que j'ai  le plaisir de vous présenter sous la cote 26 C/140 et Add. et Corr.
104 Monsieur le Président, je ne voudrais pas faire une présentation détaillée de ce rapport; ses deux  parties orales et écrites reflètent bien les débats qui se sont déroulés au sein de notre Commission. Je  souhaiterais plutôt souligner le fait que ce rapport est le résultat d'un excellent travail d'équipe entre le  rapporteur, le Bureau de la Commission, les délégations présentes aux travaux de la Commission, le  représentant du Directeur général et les membres du Secrétariat. La Commission a réussi à terminer ses travaux  avec un peu d'avance grâce à l'excellent esprit de coopération et à la bonne volonté qui a prédominé tout au  long de nos débats. J'exprime mes sincères remerciements et ma reconnaissance à tous ceux qui ont contribué à  nos travaux.
10.5 La participation, Monsieur le Président, a d'ailleurs été très large, comme en témoigne le nombre des  délégués qui ont pris part aux discussions, et les contributions ont été très enrichissantes. A ce propos, et avant  de vous présenter le rapport, j'aimerais vous faire part du souci exprimé par un délégué, appuyé par d'autres,  quant au fait qu'un rapport écrit, uniquement décisionnel, tel qu'il est conçu actuellement, ne reflète pas  entièrement la richesse des débats. Les délégués souhaitent qu'une attention spéciale soit accordée par le  Conseil exécutif et les organes compétents à la nécessité, pour ce genre de rapport, tout en restant synthétique,  de dégager les grandes lignes d'orientation indiquées lors du débat. Je suis bien conscient du fait que la  structure actuelle du rapport résulte de la décision prise par le Conseil exécutif et la Conférence générale en vue  de réduire le volume de la documentation produite par la Conférence, Mais je tenais à vous faire part des  préoccupations exprimées à ce sujet au sein de la Commission.
10.6 Monsieur le Président, le rapport de la Commission III est formé de deux éléments : le compte rendu  oral synthétique de nos discussions et le rapport écrit que vous avez devant vous. Permettez-moi à cette  occasion d'exprimer ma sincère gratitude au rapporteur de la Commission III, M. Laufer, pour le travail  excellent qu'il a accompli, ce qui nous a permis de disposer du compte rendu oral et du projet de rapport écrit.
10.7 Avec votre permission, Monsieur le Président, je propose que nous examinions ce rapport en deux  parties, la première correspondant aux programmes IL.1 et IL.3, et la deuxième relative au programme IL.2.  Programme IL3 - Science, technologie et société
10.8 Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je commencerai donc par la présentation du rapport oral  concernant les programmes II.1 "Science et technologie pour le développement” et IL.3 "Science, technologie et  société".
109 Ces programmes ont donné lieu à un débat au cours duquel 69 délégués ont pris la parole. De  nombreux orateurs ont approuvé le fait que les activités proposées dans le document 26 C/5 ont été conçues en  gardant à l'esprit les principes et les orientations du troisième Plan à moyen terme. Ils ont salué l'effort de  concentration des activités et de classement de ces activités par ordre de priorité et souhaité que les programmes  proposés contribuent à réduire l'écart qui ne cesse de se creuser, dans le domaine scientifique et technologique,  entre pays industrialisés et pays en développement. Le rôle important que la science et la technologie peuvent  jouer dans la promotion du développement durable a été constamment évoqué.
10.10 Plusieurs délégués ont affirmé la nécessité de continuer à mettre l'accent, dans les programmes, sur la  dimension culturelle du développement technologique. On a aussi mis en relief l'efficience de la mise en oeuvre  des activités et de la diffusion de l'information scientifique par des mécanismes de réseaux. La création d'un  programme de chaires UNESCO en science et technologie a été accueillie avec beaucoup de satisfaction et un  certain nombre d'orateurs ont demandé que des chaires soient établies dans les institutions de leur pays.
10.11 Les délégués ont également souligné le rôle important que les bureaux régionaux de science et  technologie sont appelés à jouer dans le renforcement de la coopération régionale et interrégionale. Beaucoup
768   d'entre eux ont demandé que les efforts de régionalisation soient poursuivis. Ils ont reconnu la nécessité de  renforcer les programmes qui visent à accroître la participation des jeunes scientifiques, et notamment celle des  femmes, et ils ont aussi souligné la complémentarité de l'effort des organisations non gouvernementales, des  institutions universitaires et des autres institutions des Nations Unies. Il est nécessaire qu'une coopération  active s'instaure entre ces composantes.
10.12 Le sous-programme IL.1.1, qui vise au renforcement des capacités nationales et régionales en matière  d'enseignement universitaire scientifique et technologique, a été bien accueilli par la Commission. La plupart  des orateurs ont insisté sur le fait que l'UNESCO devait accorder un haut rang de priorité aux actions dans ce  domaine, l'enseignement des sciences étant l'une des bases les plus solides du développement. Ils ont reconnu la  nécessité de s'attacher à renforcer l'enseignement des sciences et de la technologie au niveau universitaire. De  nombreux orateurs ont fait ressortir la nécessité de mettre au point des programmes d'études pertinents,  d'élaborer des matériels didactiques pour les enseignements universitaires de sciences fondamentales et de  former des enseignants pour les universités. Ils ont également souligné la nécessité d'améliorer les équipements  de laboratoire, de promouvoir les échanges de professeurs, de fournir une assistance aux centres de  documentation et de développer la formation de techniciens susceptibles d'assurer les travaux de réparation,  d'entretien et de maintenance des équipements scientifiques et technologiques.
10.13 De nombreux délégués ont exprimé leur soutien et leur satisfaction au sujet de l'élaboration de  mallettes pédagogiques dans le domaine des sciences de l'ingénieur. Ils ont approuvé l'accent mis sur  l'élaboration de matériels se rapportant au génie environnemental et dans le domaine de l'écotechnologie.
10.14 En ce qui conceme le sous-programme IL1.2 - Promotion de la recherche scientifique et  technologique, plusieurs orateurs ont insisté sur le mandat dévolu à l'UNESCO au sein du système des Nations  Unies pour ce qui est des sciences fondamentales et sur le rôle qui lui revient de constituer à cet égard une  instance de débat appropriée. La nécessité de renforcer les capacités nationales et régionales par le biais de la  coopération internationale a également été mise en relief et les orateurs ont en outre fait ressortir la nécessité  d'entreprende des actions visant à favoriser l'accès à l'information et au savoir scientifiques.
10.15 Plusieurs orateurs ont demandé que soient renforcés les programmes en mathématiques, en physique,  en chimie, en biologie moléculaire, en biotechnologie ainsi que le programme MIRCEN, tandis que d'autres ont  déclaré qu'il importait de répartir de façon équilibrée les fonds entre les différentes disciplines du programme  des sciences fondamentales. Plusieurs orateurs ont exprimé leur soutien au programme concernant le génome  humain, d'autres proposant d'en élargir le champ pour y inclure la génétique végétale et animale.
10.16 Les délégués ont approuvé la prise en compte de l'environnement dans les activités du domaine de  l'ingéniérie et de la technologie. La Commisson estime que les technologies favorisant une gestion rationnelle  de l'environnement devraient être, au cours de l'exercice biennal, l'objet d'un programme hautement prioritaire.
10.17 De nombreux pays ont appuyé le programme sur les énergies renouvelables. Ils se sont félicités du  projet qu'a l'UNESCO de former de nombreux spécialistes des technologies de l'énergie solaire et de créer des  bases de données UNESCO sur l'énergie.
10.18 Les délégués ont accueilli favorablement les programmes destinés à promouvoir l'interaction entre les  universités et l'industrie. Ils ont souligné la nécessité de mettre en oeuvre des activités de recherche-  développement destinées à encourager le transfert de technologie et les relations entre les universités et  l'industrie, en estimant toutefois que ces activités devraient être soigneusement programmées pour éviter les  doubles emplois avec d'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies. Les délégués de la région Afrique ont  exprimé leur soutien aux activités scientifiques et technologiques du RAIST et formulé l'espoir que l'UNESCO  renforce ce réseau, qui a contribué de façon appréciable à encourager les jeunes scientifiques et technologues à  contribuer au développement du continent.
10.19 Le programme I1.3 - Science, technologie et société a été également bien accueilli et a reçu l'appui de  la majorité des orateurs. Ceux-ci ont souligné que l'UNESCO dispose là d'une occasion unique de promouvoir  le débat intellectuel sur le rôle joué par la science et la technologie dans le développement économique et social.  La nécessité d'assurer la multidisciplinarité de ce programme a été également reconnue. Cela implique une  forte interaction entre les sciences exactes et naturelles et les sciences sociales, sans parler de la dimension  culturelle qui ne doit pas, bien entendu, être négligée.
10.20 La partie du programme consacrée à la culture scientifique et technologique a recueilli un large  soutien. On a jugé indispensable d'élever le niveau général de culture scientifique et technologique pour  permettre une intégration sociale plus rapide et harmonieuse des innovations technologiques, une participation  accrue de toutes les classes sociales aux décisions intéressant l'avenir de la société et l'accès d'un plus grand  nombre de jeunes aux professions scientifiques.
10.21 Plusieurs intervenants ont fait observer que la vulgarisation scientifique demeurait dans beaucoup de  pays une activité marginale, Il est également apparu que la vulgarisation scientifique exigeait une interaction de  tous les domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO et devait être incluse dans tous les programmes scientifiques.
10.22 Plusieurs délégués ont estimé que la formation de journalistes et de rédacteurs scientifiques ainsi que le  renforcement de centres de vulgarisation scientifique tels que les parcs et musées des sciences et des techniques  représentaient d'importants moyens d'améliorer le niveau scientifique de la société et ont sollicité une assistance  à cet égard.
10.23 Plusieurs orateurs ont émis le voeu qu'une plus grande publicité soit donnée aux prix scientifiques  décernés par l'UNESCO afin d'en augmenter le prestige et le rayonnement. Ils ont indiqué par ailleurs que les  périodiques scientifiques publiés par l'UNESCO tels que Impact étaient d'un haut niveau, mais que leur  diffusion demandait à être améliorée. Un soutien s'est exprimé en faveur de la rédaction d'une nouvelle  publication consacrée aux tendances générales de la science : l'Annuaire des sciences de l'UNESCO,
10.24 Les délégués ont été nombreux à mettre en relief l'importance des activités touchant à l'éthique  scientifique, ainsi que le rôle exceptionnel qu'il appartient à l'UNESCO de jouer dans ce domaine. Selon  certains, l'éthique scientifique serait bientôt l'une des activités principales de l'UNESCO. Un groupe d'Etats  membres a mis l'accent sur la nécessité d'établir un lien entre les problèmes éthiques et juridiques et la science  moderne.
10.25 Plusieurs délégués ont insisté sur la priorité qui devait être donnée par l'UNESCO aux activités  concernant la politique et la gestion de la science et de la technologie, jugées prioritaires par leurs pays. La  nécessité de définir des politiques et stratégies nationales judicieuses qui permettent d'assurer un  développement scientifique et technologique endogène a été soulignée. Les délégués de nombreux pays en  développement ont sollicité une assistance de l'UNESCO dans ce domaine.
10.26 Des délégués d'Europe centrale et d'Europe de l'Est ont demandé instamment à l'Organisation de  renforcer les institutions et mécanismes utilisables pour l'évaluation internationale de projets de recherche  pendant la phase de passage à l'économie de marché.
10.27 Plusieurs délégués de la région de l'Afrique se sont dits préoccupés par le manque de précisions sur les  activités destinées à donner suite aux conférences et réunions régionales en particulier à "CASTAFRICA II". A  cet égard, ils ont invité l'UNESCO à s'investir davantage dans le développement des capacités locales de  gestion de la science et de la technologie. Plusieurs délégués ont salué le travail réalisé par les réseaux  régionaux existants, tels que STEPAN pour la région Asie et Pacifique et le Réseau latino-américain de  formation et d'échange d'information dans le domaine de la politique scientifique et technologique. Nous  arrivons, Monsieur le Président, à la fin de la première partie de ce rapport oral qui concernait les programmes  IL.1 et IL.3.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your presentation, Mr Seddoh. We have now to adopt the section of the report of  Commission III relating to Programmes II.1 and II.3 (paragraphs 6 to 20) and the relevant parts of its  Addendum and Corrigendum. Paragraphs 6 to 8 are concerned with the parts of the principal resolution 2.1 of
26 C/5 relating to these two programmes. Paragraphs 9 to 19 relate to the work plan and paragraph 20 refers to  the appropriations for Programmes II.1 and IL3.
11.2 1now submit to you this part of the report. Are there any observations? There seem to be no objections.
11.3 May I then consider that as regards this part of the report, the General Conference takes note of the  work plan of Programmes II.1 and I1.3 in the 26 C/5 document as amended by the Commission as well as the  budget proposed; and adopts that part of resolution 2.1 as amended by the Commission and found in  paragraphs 6 and 7 of the report?
11.4 It is so decided.
115 Mr Seddoh will now present the part of the report of Commission III dealing with Programme I1.2.  Mr Seddoh, you have the floor.  Programme 11.2 - Environnement et aménagement des ressources naturelles
12.1 M. SEDDOH (Togo), président de la Commission III :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Cette deuxième partie de mon rapport concerne, comme vous  l'avez indiqué, le programme II.2 - Environnement et aménagement des ressources naturelles.
12.2 Au total, les représentants de 77 Etats membres et organisations non gouvernementales ont pris part au  débat sur le programme IL.2 - Environnement et aménagement des ressources naturelles. Les délégués ont jugé  hautement prioritaires les programmes de l'UNESCO relatifs à l'environnement et ont apporté un large soutien  aux activités proposées.
12.3 La Commission III a entendu les exposés introductifs des présidents des organes directeurs et conseils  de coordination de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale (COI), du Programme international  de corrélation géologique (PICG), du Programme hydrologique international (PHI) et du Programme "L'homme  et la biosphère" (MAB), au sujet de leurs programmes respectifs.
124 Un grand nombre d'orateurs ont approuvé les activités destinées à renforcer la contribution de  l'Organisation aux préparatifs de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur l'environnement et le développement  (CNUED). De nombreux délégués ont souligné que cette contribution devait être intersectorielle et  interdisciplinaire. D'autres ont fait valoir que l'UNESCO devait jouer un rôle majeur dans le suivi de la  Conférence, notamment dans la mise en oeuvre de ses recommandations et en particulier de I'" Action 21". Tout  en demandant instamment que l'UNESCO continue d'apporter le soutien le plus pertinent à la préparation de la  CNUED, la Commission suggère que la Conférence générale adresse une déclaration à cet effet au Comité  intergouvernemental préparatoire de la CNUED. Le texte de cette déclaration a été approuvé par la  Commission à sa séance finale, le lundi 4 novembre ; il est reproduit dans l'Addendum et Corrigendum.
12.5 A propos de la préparation de la CNUED et de la mise en oeuvre du programme IL2 en général, de  nombreux délégués ont souligné que l'UNESCO doit être un partenaire actif dans la coopération et la  coordination interinstitutions. Plusieurs d'entre eux ont insisté également sur l'importance du renforcement, à  l'intérieur même de l'UNESCO, de la coopération intersectorielle relative à l'environnement et au  développement. Les activités proposées dans la section consacrée à la "Coordination des programmes  d'environnement concernant le changement planétaire et le développement durable” ont été considérées comme  étant le type d'activités attendu de la part de l'Organisation. À ce sujet, un grand nombre de délégués ont  évoqué les avantages d'un partenariat étroit entre l'UNESCO et la communauté scientifique internationale non  gouvernementale, par l'intermédiaire du CIUS et du CISS.
12.6 De nombreux délégués ont indiqué que le projet de coopération intersectorielle et interinstitutions  concernant l'éducation et l'information relatives à l'environnement était important pour la réalisation d'un  développement durable. La priorité donnée, dans le document C/5, à l'éducation et à l'information touchant  l'environnement a été soulignée ; toutefois, plusieurs orateurs auraient aimé voir allouer encore davantage de  ressources à cette activité. Il est important que, dans les travaux de la CNUED, l'éducation et l'information  comprennent l'enseignement scolaire et l'éducation extrascolaire, la sensibilisation de l'opinion publique et,  surtout, l'information scientifique des décideurs. Le Congrès mondial sur l'éducation et la communication pour  l'environnement et le développement, qui doit être organisé conjointement par l'UNESCO et la Chambre de  commerce internationale à Toronto en octobre 1992, a été cité comme une importante action de suivi de la  CNUED.
12.7 En ce qui concerne le sous-programme I1.2.2 - Les sciences de la terre et les risques naturels, les  délégués ont souligné le lien entre environnement, aménagement des ressources naturelles et prévention des  catastrophes, mais de nombreux délégués ont souligné également la nécessité d'adopter, s'agissant des sciences  de la terre, une approche interdisciplinaire qui élimine les barrières entre les sciences exactes et naturelles et les  sciences humaines. Ils ont demandé qu'un programme transversal soit mis sur pied dans le domaine des risques  naturels. Le Programme international de corrélation géologique (PICG) a été considéré comme un cadre
25   important pour la participation des Etats membres aux recherches concernant les sciences de la terre. Plusieurs  délégués ont souligné l'intérêt des cartes spécialisées produites par ce Programme et des cours de formation  prévus. La participation de spécialistes de sexe féminin et de jeunes scientifiques devra être privilégiée, ainsi  que l'introduction de nouvelles technologies telles que la télédétection et les systèmes d'information  électroniques.
12.8 — L'accent a été mis sur le rôle de l'UNESCO dans la recherche sur les risques naturels et sur la  contribution à la Décennie internationale de la prévention des catastrophes naturelles ; plusieurs délégués ont  préconisé que la participation à la Décennie soit accrue. Un certain nombre d'orateurs ont insisté sur  l'importance du développement des systèmes de surveillance des risques naturels et ont suggéré la création de  centres internationaux ou régionaux d'action intégrée contre les catastrophes naturelles et le soutien aux centres  existants tels que le CERESIS.
12.9 En ce qui concerne le sous-programme H.2.3 - L'homme et la biosphère, de nombreux délégués ont  exprimé leur soutien à ce sous-programme et aux activités connexes prévues dans les domaines des sciences  écologiques et du patrimoine naturel. Certains orateurs ont soulevé des questions particulièrement intéressantes,  comme l'interface économie-environnement, la gestion des déchets urbains, la participation de l'UNESCO au  plan d'action forestier tropical, la désertification et l'amélioration de l'utilisation des terres arides, l'écologie des  îles et des zones côtières et les écosystèmes des régions montagneuses.
12.10 De nombreux délégués se sont déclarés très favorables aux activités concernant les réserves de la  biosphère. Ils ont suggéré d'encourager les initiatives nationales existantes pour renforcer les réserves et pour  en créer de nouvelles. Les délégués ont souligné la nécessité de consolider le réseau international de réserves de  la biosphère. À cet égard, nombre d'entre eux ont manifesté leur appui à la réalisation d'une étude en vue de  l'élaboration d'une recommandation de l'UNESCO sur les réserves de la biosphère ainsi qu'à la création  immédiate d'un Comité consultatif sur les réserves de la biosphère. L'attention a été appelée sur la nécessité  toute particulière de créer des réserves de la biosphère dans les zones marines côtières en coordination avec la  COI et le MRI.
12.11 Le lancement, par l'Union internationale des sciences biologiques, le Comité scientifique sur les  problèmes de l'environnement (SCOPE) et l'UNESCO, d'un vaste travail de recherche en collaboration axé sur  l'importance fonctionnelle de la diversité biologique, a été approuvé. Des délégués ont exprimé l'avis que ce  travail contribuera sans conteste à apporter des réponses scientifiques aux préoccupations actuelles du public et  des autorités politiques concernant la diversité biologique ; il aidera notamment à l'élaboration de la convention  sur la diversité biologique et à 1" Action 21" de ia CNUED.
12.12 La Convention sur le patrimoine mondial continue de bénéficier d'un soutien croissant, un intérêt  particulier étant porté au repérage de sites qui pourraient faire partie du patrimoine mondial naturel et au  développement des activités de formation, avec le concours du Fonds du patrimoine mondial.
12.13 Jen viens maintenant au sous-programme 11.2.4 - la Commission océanographique  intergouvernementale (COI) et les questions liées aux sciences de la mer. Le programme proposé par l'Office de  la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale et des questions liées aux sciences de la mer a obtenu  une large approbation. La majorité des orateurs ont évoqué ce programme en indiquant que l'on a de plus en  plus conscience de l'importance des océans pour l'écosystème planétaire.
12.14 Les orateurs ont réaffirmé leur intérêt pour le Système mondial d'observation de l'océan (GOOS) et  pour les travaux de la COI liés à l'étude des changements climatiques, à la surveillance du milieu marin et à la  gestion des données connexes. Ils ont confirmé leur volonté d'organiser des actions dans ces domaines. Ils ont  également réaffirmé la nécessité de renforcer les capacités nationales, ainsi que les ressources tant humaines  que technologiques, de manière à créer des conditions favorables à une plus large participation à ces  programmes, ainsi qu'aux programmes océanographiques régionaux et internationaux. Les spécialistes de la  recherche océanographique sur les zones côtières participeront à la réalisation d'études à grande échelle et à la  mise en place de systèmes d'observation. Se référant aux résolutions XVI-17 et XVI-8 de la COI, certains pays  ont soulevé le problème qui se pose au secrétariat de la COI en matière de personnel.
12.15 Plusieurs délégués ont mis l'accent sur les avantages qui résulteront d'une approche transversale et se  sont déclarés favorables à l'établissement d'un programme unique dans le domaine des sciences de la mer.  D'autres orateurs ont souligné qu'il était nécessaire d'avoir une vision unifiée et globale de l'océan. Cet aspect
772   est important compte tenu de la mise en place de systèmes d'observation mondiaux et côtiers et de l'étude de  l'interface entre systèmes côtiers et systèmes de la haute mer.
12.16 Un soutien a été exprimé au Système international d'alerte aux tsunamis dans le Pacifique et aux  efforts de coopération interorganisations déployés pour élaborer un programme de recherche coordonné et  intégré sur la mer Noire. Ce programme sera soumis aux organismes de financement.
12.17 L'importance de la recherche océanographique sur les zones côtières et de son utilisation dans la  gestion intégrée de ces zones a été soulignée par de nombreux orateurs, qui ont appelé l'attention sur les besoins  à satisfaire dans ces deux domaines pour faire face aux problèmes liés au milieu marin, notamment au  problème de la pollution. Des délégués se sont félicités de ce que de nombreuses activités UNESCO/COI  comportaient des aspects en rapport avec ces problèmes. De nombreux pays ont reconnu les contributions  apportées par le COMAR et le TREDMAR, en particulier la composante de ce programme pour l'Afrique, le  COMARAF. On prévoit que ces programmes continueront de se développer et seront renforcés dans le cadre de  la composante de la COI/MRI relative aux questions liées aux sciences de la mer, en collaboration étroite avec  le MAB.
12.18 De nombreux orateurs ont souligné l'importance de la coopération interorganisations dans le domaine  océanographique, en souhaitant que les questions liées aux océans reçoivent l'attention adéquate dans le  processus de préparation de la CNUED. La précieuse contribution apportée par l'UNESCO et la COI à la  préparation de la Conférence a été soulignée.
12.19 En ce qui concerne le sous-programme I1.2.5 - Hydrologie et gestion des ressources en eau, les  délégués ont exprimé leur ferme soutien aux activités du Programme hydrologique international. De nombreux  délégués se sont félicités de la haute priorité assignée aux projets du PHI pour le prochain exercice biennal.  Trois domaines prioritaires sont prévus : (1) les problèmes résultant de l'influence des changements potentiels  du climat mondial sur le cycle hydrologique ; (2) les questions liées à l'éco-hydrologie et à une gestion  écologiquement rationnelle des ressources en eau ; (3) les problèmes particuliers de l'hydrologie et de la gestion  des ressources en eau dans les zones tropicales humides. De nombreux délégués ont souligné l'importance du  programme PHI pour l'hydrologie des zones tropicales humides et approuvé l'idée de créer des centres chargés  de coordonner les activités menées en coopération en vue du développement des connaissances et du transfert  de technologie.
12.20 Plusieurs délégués ont évoqué le projet "Danube bleu". Il a été souligné qu'il convenait de donner à ce  projet un caractère interdisciplinaire, tout en évitant les doubles emplois. Des efforts doivent être faits tant au  niveau des pays qu'au sein de l'UNESCO pour coordonner les activités liées à son financement.
12.21 De nombreux délégués ont cependant exprimé leur préoccupation devant la réduction des ressources en  personnel et des ressources financières accordées au PHI au cours du dernier exercice biennal, compte tenu de  l'importance croissante des problèmes posés par les ressources en eau à travers le monde et de la dimension  mondiale unique du PHI.
12.22 En ce qui concerne les ressources extrabudgétaires, plusieurs délégués ont souligné l'importance des  ressources extrabudgétaires dans le financement des projets dans le domaine de la science pour le progrès et  l'environnement, les besoins étant de très loin supérieurs aux ressources disponibles au titre du budget  ordinaire. Ils ont noté que des ressources extrabudgétaires additionnelles étaient prévues pour la période 1992-
1993. Il est recommandé à l'UNESCO de poursuivre son dialogue avec les donateurs - en particulier avec la  Banque mondiale - afin de réorienter l'approche et les moyens concrets utilisés pour assurer des crédits et des  prêts pour les activités liées au développement de la science et de la technologie, ainsi que pour les sciences de  l'environnement.
12.23 Monsieur le Président, ainsi prend fin mon compte rendu oral relatif au programme IL.2 - La science  pour le progrès et l'environnement.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Seddoh. Now, before examining the part of the report relating to Programme 11.2, I  would like, with your permission, to consider the text of the Declaration mentioned by Mr Seddoh appearing at  the end of document 26 C/140 Add. & Corr. and concerning the role of UNESCO in relation to the United  Nations Conference on Environment and Development.
13.2 — Are there any observations or comments? May I then consider that the General Conference adopts this  Declaration as its own, and invites the Director-General to transmit it to the Preparatory Committee of the  United Nations Conference on Environment and Development?
13.3 — Itis so decided.
13.4 The delegate of China has the floor.
14. RERKE CPE) :  HE RE, CTHRTHEAONK SERRES A ES IUT EME AS, RAA OUEN EN, (LE,  MAN HEPH— TRS HE, EVER IEREC@HBAT, (OR BLTE RIT É IMHO  WAAL. RENE ERMA EIA, EXAAPIA EX BE LNE EMA AETHER  METH, THEA LEARME BREE TEAS HSMACPRE; TAXA TERME, Ed  TERS, HAMA CHE; FhxA RARE. HAS, TENE HMA SE. HP "Hail  TRAE HES ANMDPÉTE, RIVAN, EHR CARNE RE SER FRE EN RZRERN. LI  ER ERIE FH EGRET. RIBERA, HERHANESAERBFML AIH; À  THEA SX LEMS, EA ERIHbIEN. HERNAN ES HRMMFMEANE, RTK  FH, EAE RHEE. FU, RIVAAEZBRMZBCH, EMARHE, NHARFTE SE  MARS |, HE “EMARMYE TEM¥ HSMAIRHS” , ARNÉHER. TRAE TEA  HARRY, WTPIBESERERSEG TRET HRA ANER, HUT LUEL AHH ARREHRER  SUR. XRREATH TFT XHBEAER. Bil.
(14) Mr WU (China) (Translation from the Chinese):  Thank you, Mr President. We do not have any fundamental observations to make on the Declaration on  the Role of UNESCO in Relation to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. However,  we would like to point out that there is a question about the concept of science in the text of the Declaration. This  question has already been discussed by Commission III, but we did not find any corrections in the new text. What  I would like to say first is that the wording of the text in the relevant paragraph is not harmonized in English,  French and Chinese. The second paragraph of the present Declaration in French is worded as 'natural, exact,  engineering and social and human science’; in English it is worded as ‘natural, basic engineering and social and  human science’; and in Chinese, it is worded as 'natural, basic, engineering and social and human science’. The  expression 'basic engineering’ does not in fact exist. We think that as an official Declaration of UNESCO, it must  be accurate in terms of the concept of science. We should give thought to how the classification of science is  worded. As far as we know, science is classified into natural science and social and human science, depending on  the subject studied, and apart from some intersecting disciplines, they are exclusive in essence. Depending on its  value in application, science is classified into basic science and applied science, and apart from some intersecting  disciplines, they are exclusive in essence. We therefore consider that the second paragraph must be revised to  read ‘basic natural, applied natural and social and human science’ or to read ‘basic natural, engineering and social  and human science’ or some other form of words. Engineering science is part of the applied sciences and as a  result of its increasing role in the new technological revolution, it is listed as representative of the applied  sciences. This is our suggestion for the modification of the document. Thank you.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China. I am told that the original text was in English and that every effort will  be made to harmonize the text in all languages. Your comments have been noted and we shall ensure that all  the language versions say the same thing.
15.2 — We now have to adopt the section of the report relating to Programme IL2 (paragraphs 23 to 46) and  the relevant parts of its Addendum and Corrigendum. Paragraphs 23 to 25 are concerned with the relevant part  of the principal resolution 2.1 of document 26 C/5. Paragraphs 26 to 43 refer to the work plan relating to  Programme 11.2, paragraph 44 refers to budget provisions for Programme I1.2, paragraph 45 to Co-operation  for Development and the Participation Programme, and paragraph 46 to the documents reporting on the work
774   of the intergovernmental environmental programmes of UNESCO. I draw your attention to paragraph 33 and to  the relevant part of the Addendum and Corrigendum document containing 26 C/DR.330 Rev., as modified by  the Commission. Are there any observations?
15.3 May I then consider that, as regards Programme II.2, the General Conference takes note of the work  plan of Programme I1.2 in the 26 C/5 document as amended by the decisions taken by the Commission, and of  the budget proposed; adopts that part of resolution 2.1, as amended by the Commission, to be found in  paragraph 23 of the report; and also adopts 26 C/DR.330 Rev. as modified by the Commission?
15.4 — Itis so decided.
15.5 — I shall once again invite Mr Seddoh to continue his presentation of the report.
16.1 M. SEDDOH (Togo), président de la Commission III :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il ne reste plus que le dernier paragraphe du rapport qui concerne les  crédits budgétaires pour l'ensemble du champ majeur de programme II et vient conclure le rapport de la  Commission III.
16.2 Mais Monsieur le Président, avec votre permission, et puisque je prends la parole pour la dernière fois,  je voudrais à nouveau remercier tous les membres de la Commission pour le soutien qu'ils m'ont apporté tout au  long de nos travaux et pour le climat empreint de franchise et de cordialité dans lequel se sont déroulées ses  délibérations. Tout au long des dix jours que nous avons passés ensemble, nous avons partagé les mêmes  préoccupations et la même ambition, celle de fournir une contribution de qualité au programme des sciences de  l'UNESCO tout en respectant, bien sûr - et cela a été fait - le calendrier établi.
16.3 Je voudrats également remercier le Secrétariat, le Directeur général et son représentant qui a participé  à nos travaux, M. Badran, ainsi que ses collaborateurs. Je voudrais également remercier notre Secrétaire,  M. Moore, et son équipe. Ils ont été, je peux le dire, et très clairement, les chevilles ouvrières, discrètes mais  efficaces, des résultats auxquels nous sommes parvenus. Je voudrais, avec votre permission également,  remercier les interprètes pour la contribution de qualité qu'ils ont apportée à la réussite des travaux de la  Commission II. Et enfin, Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie et je vous félicite pour la manière dont vous  présidez les travaux de la vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
171 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Seddoh. I propose that we look at paragraph 47; I must remind you that the figures of  the proposed budget are subject to adjustments in the light of the decisions that have been taken by the Joint  Meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission and to decisions of  Commission IV concerning Informatics. Are there any objections to the adoption of this part of the report?
17.2 May I then consider that as regards Major Programme Area II, "Science for progress and the  environment’ the General Conference adopts the complete resolution proposed in document 26 C/5, as amended  by the Commission, except for paragraph 2(a) (iii) which appears in the report of Commission IV; approves the  budget proposed in the 26 C/5 document; and takes note of the work plan in the 26 C/5 document as amended?
173  Itis so decided.
174 Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus ended the adoption of the report of Commission III.
17.5 1 would now like to thank Mr Seddoh, Chairman of Commission III, for the competent manner in  which he directed the work of the Commission and for an excellent report. I would also like to thank all of you  for your co-operation. This morning we had a quorum and did not need to adjourn for five minutes, and we  have finished with one hour to spare. I hope the same co-operation and support will be shown this afternoon  when we have to consider our last report, from Commission IV. The meeting is adjourned until three o'clock.  La séance est levée a 12 heures  The meeting rose at 12 noon  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 12.00