Onzième séance plénière
21 octobre 1991, à 15 h.10  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. JOUKOV (URSS)  Eleventh plenary meeting
21 okTs6p4 1991 r. B 15.10  MpeycegaTenb: r-u OroT (Kenus)
391   REMERCIEMENTS DE LA DELEGATION DE L'INDE EN REPONSE AU MESSAGE DE  CONDOLEANCES DU PRESIDENT  EXPRESSION OF THANKS BY THE DELEGATION OF INDIA IN RESPONSE TO THE MESSAGE  OF CONDOLENCE FROM THE PRESIDENT  EXPRESION DE AGRADECIMIENTO DE LA DELEGACION DE LA INDIA POR EL MENSAJE DE  PESAME DEL PRESIDENTE  BbIPAXEHHE BJArNO/[APHOCTH AEJIECALIMEW HH/IHH B OTBET HA IMOCIAHHE  I[MTPENCEINATEJS C COBOJIEZHOBAHMAMUA  esi Al a La pd Land Uli) Le fs) Safi] 435 Ge SA LAIS  EJS AR Æ FLA + F880 JR fe] FR SUR if 0)
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the eleventh plenary meeting. Before we continue with our  general policy debate I would like to give the floor to the representative of India.
2. Mr KRISHNAN (India):  Thank you, Mr President, for being good enough to give me the floor. On behalf of the Government  and people of India and the delegation of India, I wish to convey our deepest sense of gratitude and appreciation  to the General Conference for the message of sympathy and solidarity that has been addressed this morning to  the President of India by you, Mr President, on behalf of the Conference. I thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much Mr Krishnan.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaci6n)  OBCYXIEHHE BOITPOCOB OBII[EH TOJNHTHKH (npogonxenne)
4. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now resume our general policy debate and I would like to call on HE. Ms Vida Yeboah,  PNDC Deputy Secretary for School Education and head of the delegation of Ghana.
5.1 Ms YEBOAH (Ghana):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the Ghanaian delegation and on my own behalf, I wish to congratulate you,  Mr President, on your deserved election to preside over the deliberations of this session of the General  Conference. We would also like to add our voice of warm welcome to the representatives of the States of  Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu. May I also take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to  the Government and the people of France and to all UNESCO's Secretariat, particularly the Director-General,  who have worked diligently and thoroughly during the preparatory stages of the Conference.
52 Mr President, the Ghanaian delegation is gratified by UNESCO's meaningful efforts to streamline its  operations and the Organization itself. Proposals have been made by several Member States which merit very  serious in-depth consideration by the Conference. It is the hope of my delegation that the Conference will apply  itself with all the seriousness these proposals deserve and arrive at a consensus acceptable to all, bearing in  mind the overall interests and universality of UNESCO as an Organization. Ghana welcomes the proposals  concerning UNESCO's general policy and direction. Notable among these are the abolition of 62 vacant posts  in accordance with the recommendations of the Executive Board, and the continued streamlining of the  working procedures of the General Conference including, inter alia, a reduction in the duration of the session.
5.3 Mr President, we wish once more to place on record our appreciation of the cordial and fruitful co-  operation that has existed between Ghana and UNESCO. Ghana wishes to congratulate the Director-General on  the initiative taken to implement the ‘Priority: Africa’ programme approved at the last General Conference.  Viewing the developments in education worldwide and with particular reference to the African ‘situation,
392   Ghana is happy to have been selected to host the first in the series of workshops planned under the programme,  to consider the governance, management and financing of universities in Africa, due to be held in Accra soon  after this Conference. Although Ghana is receiving support for educational reforms from the World Bank and  other donor agencies, there is still much need for assistance in the education sector, especially in the areas of  technical and vocational education. One of the major problems facing technical and vocational education in  most developing countries, including Ghana, is the woeful lack of linkage between institutional education and  training on the one hand, and what actually goes on in industry and commerce on the other. We in Ghana have  started programmes to remedy this situation, and would appreciate any programmes which will support further  linkages.
54 Under the literacy programme, my delegation and I are justifiably proud of the three UNESCO awards  given to Ghana this year for the promotion of literacy education and are very grateful to UNESCO for its  recognition of our humble but determined efforts. Having benefited from UNESCO's programmes and being in  a position to appreciate their worth Ghana is most anxious, in the face of UNESCO's budgetary constraints, that  co-operation with other United Nations agencies and bilateral arrangements be encouraged and promoted to  afford extra-budgetary resources and technical support for development programmes.
5.5 At this point, my delegation would again like to state our government's appreciation of the initiative  taken by the Director-General in getting the four United Nations agencies to team up with other United Nations  related bodies to organize the World Conference on Education for All in Thailand and for the honour done  Ghana in her election as general co-rapporteur of the Conference.
5.6 Mr President, the recent changes in the international political climate have greatly facilitated and  advanced democratic changes. What in recent years appeared impossible and but a dream, today is a probability  which will be a reality tomorrow. It is however felt that some of these changes occurred and established  themselves so fast that there is a danger that we could be overtaken by events if we do not equip ourselves  adequately to handle them.
5.7 In the area of human rights, Ghana notes with satisfaction the effort that UNESCO, in collaboration  with other United Nations agencies and individual African countries is making to promote freedom of the press  in Africa. Specific reference is being made here to the Seminar 'On a Free and Pluralistic Press in Africa’  jointly sponsored by UNESCO, UNDP and other organizations in Namibia earlier this year. The purpose of this  seminar was to explore avenues and map out strategies for attaining the objectives of a free flow of information  within countries so that people with diverse views can express themselves and thus contribute meaningfully and  genuinely to human development. Our delegation would like to believe that the hopes expressed and the  resolutions passed will be followed up, so that the aspirations can be translated into concrete deeds to put  communication at the service of humanity and of true democracy.
5.8 The Ghanaian delegation notes the constant and continued preoccupation of UNESCO with the  questions of peace, human rights and the elimination of all forms of discrimination. With specific regard to the  question of apartheid we are particularly pleased to note the significant move by UNESCO from its  preoccupation with the elimination of apartheid, to a concern for post-apartheid South Africa, since we believe  that a programme for the elimination of apartheid as an end in itself 15 not enough.
5.9 Communication technology is an area which is fast developing and changing. Many developing  countries usually find themselves at the receiving end of such developmental processes, the outcome of which is  the importation of varied sophisticated equipment which leads to a dilemma. My delegation is therefore happy  with the provisions made under the strengthening of communication capacities in developing countries and  would welcome UNESCO assistance in technology choice and assessment.
5.10 Under Major Programme Area II, the Ghanatan delegation endorses the programmes designed to  improve research and teaching in science and technology. The emphasis placed on environmental education in  the programme and budget is noteworthy. Ghana looks forward to participating fully in the training and  development of science and environmental educators in higher institutions of learning.
5.11 Mr President, Ghana as a nation is strongly committed to emphasizing the cultural dimensions of  development. In this regard, we underscore the need for the rational management of resources and an all-round  development of mankind in keeping with human traditions. We are also committed to the enhancement of  international cultural co-operation, as a necessary process in promoting exchanges and enriching our national
11   cultural identities. The Ghanaian delegation, to this effect, supports the objectives and content of Major  Programme Area III.
5.12 The Ghanaian delegation supports the concern to improve the status of women. Our emphasis is  squarely placed on training programmes which will make it possible for young women in research to be used as  agents of change in issues dealing with the environment, income generation and housing for young persons in  deprived urban and rural areas. Our higher institutions of learning and universities should begin to explore  studies which will enhance these programmes and make them more supportive of equitable national  development.
5.13 Mr President, Ghana for the past few years found itself devising programmes to promote economic  recovery. In furtherance of these programmes, we have had to adopt a structural adjustment programme which  has succeeded to some extent in rehabilitating existing infrastructures and reversing the precarious economic  decline experienced in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Furthermore, Ghana has placed emphasis on identifying  the best and most efficient methods of applying its scarce funds. Ghana, through its Programme of Action to  Mitigate the Social Cost of Adjustment (PAMSCAD), has tried to cushion the social effects of the structural  adjustment programme. This policy has greatly improved the availability and access to services in areas of both  formal and non-formal education as well as health. In this regard, we shall appreciate programmes and  assistance that would be forthcoming from UNESCO, particularly in studies that will lead to further support to  vulnerable groups like women and children.
5.14 During our short stay here, Mr President, we have had the privilege of listening to the beautiful ideas  expressed by colleagues and have been wondering to whom we are addressing these issues and from whom we  should expect answers. This past week, there have been reports of a new wave of racism in Europe; one hopes  that this will not be allowed to take root but will be nipped in the bud. UNESCO and the United Nations itself  should help to build the bridges of tolerance and understanding required to bind us all into the one great  community of nations to which we all aspire. I thank you.
6. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Ghana. Our next speaker is the Hon. Peter Oloo Aringo, Minister  of Education and head of the delegation of Kenya.
7.1 Mr ARINGO (Kenya):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, may I take this opportunity to join earlier speakers in congratulating you, Mr President, on your  election to the presidency of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO. In you, the  Conference has found an able chairman who will guide its deliberations with fairness and competence. I am  saying this, Mr President, because you were my teacher at the university, and because throughout your public  life in Kenya, you have exhibited exemplary devotion, commitment and competence to whatever you have been  called upon to do. Secondly, Mr President, your election is an honour to my country and to Africa, and I want  to thank this august body for having honoured us by electing you to this high office.
7.2 May I also, Mr President, join the previous speakers in extending warm welcome to the new Member  States of Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, and Tuvalu, whose presence in our midst enriches further this august body.  In the same spirit, may I also associate my delegation with the appeal by the President of the French Republic  for universality so that together we may enhance the objectives of our Organization. My delegation also  supports current efforts aimed at reform of the Organization and looks forward to a consensus on the  amendments proposed by the Government of Japan.
7.3 Mr President, in March of this year, the Director-General had the opportunity to visit us in Kenya,  where he was able to see at first hand some of our attempts to harness our resources to meet the needs of our  people in the fields of education, culture, communication and the sciences. It also, I hope, enabled him to meet  a cross-section of Kenyans at both governmental and personal levels. I wish to thank the Director-General for  this visit, which helped to strengthen the very positive image of UNESCO in my country,  TA Mr President, when UNESCO was founded in 1945, there was desperation in the feeling of peoples of  tlic world. Two wars had been fought which left humanity gasping, wondering and horrified at the prospect of  yet another war. These feelings were reflected in UNESCO's Constitution, which called for the defences of  peace to be constructed in the minds of men.
7.5 Today, Mr President, humanity is faced with equally compelling challenges. The recent Gulf War;  conflict in many parts of the world; the collapse of the Eastern bloc and its consequences; to which we may add  the environmental catastrophe facing humanity; the liberalization of political systems; the economic crisis  confronting Africa and other developing countries as a result of technological dependency; the lopsided  development of trade; the heavy burden of debt servicing and the generic policies of structural adjustment: all  these - Mr President - to mention just a few - are factors which have combined to create a state of crisis in the  world polity.
7.6 Mr President, these crises, although in different forms are with us all. The world requires that a new  order grow out of the present one: a world order in which human values will prevail; where there shall be  mutual and reciprocal respect for each other's cultures, respect for the weak and respect for humanity.  Mr President, at the dawn of this third millennium, UNESCO stands at a cross-roads where no effort must be  spared to create a world where the satisfaction of basic human needs will be given priority. Mr President, these  auspicious moments created by the depolarization of the world offer an enormous opportunity for the agencies  of the United Nations system to reassert the spirit of multilateralism, and for the institutions of the system to  play a decisive role in shaping this new world order. Here, Mr President, UNESCO has a cardinal role to play  in promoting peace, by inducing and helping to create an atmosphere of understanding, trust and respect  among the peoples of the world and among nations, both through and within the United Nations system.
7,7 Mr President, we are aware that UNESCO has already initiated this collaboration at the global level.  The momentum of co-operation that already exists within the United Nations agencies should be continued,  enhanced and given added impetus, the agencies seeing themselves as pursuing a single goal although by  different paths. Individualistic and often institutionalized competition between them should be minimized  because, after all, the ultimate goal for which each was established is to serve humankind.
7,8 Mr President, with regard to Major Programme Area I (Education and the future), my delegation  wishes to commend the Director-General and the Executive Board for the concentration which has been  achieved in this area without compromising the quality of the programmes. Since Jomtien in March 1990,  Member States, supported by UNESCO, other United Nations agencies and donor countries have adopted  various measures aimed at realizing basic education for all. These measures have included the redefinition of  national strategies to include provision of education to the vulnerable groups, the enhancement of learning  achievement, the elimination of national disparities and the provision of early childhood education.  Mr President, in spite of these measures, the achievement of basic education for all remains a distant reality.  The euphoria that emerged from Jomtien is not being matched by resources sufficient to realize the goal.  National capacities of most Member States, particularly those in Africa and other developing countries, cannot  match the demand. In order for most Member States, and especially those in Africa, to provide sustainable  education for all, tangible support should generously be available both from the United Nations agencies and  from the donor countries of the North. Mankind has the moral obligation to fight against illiteracy, and  UNESCO should strengthen its lead role in providing technical and material support and in helping to co-  ordinate global fund-raising for the purpose of achieving worldwide literacy.
7,9 With regard to Major Programme Area II (Science for progress and the environment), my delegation  supports the reorganization which has been realized and which reflects the emphasis placed on the  environment. Kenya's concern for the environment and anxiety about climatic changes has been ably  demonstrated by the President, the Hon. D.T. Arap Moi, when he stated: "We tamper with natural forces at our  own peril. There can be no winners from the damage man continues to inflict upon our planet. We share one  planet and we cannot afford to pollute it, no matter how far from where we live’.
7.10 In the Light of this concern, which echoes the concern of humanity at the fast-deteriorating  environment, my delegation wishes to support measures envisaged as follow-up activities to the United Nations  Conference on Environment and Development to be held next year. We particularly wish to thank the Director-  General for the assistance extended to Kenya for the creation of an additional biosphere reserve at Amboseli  National Park through a co-operative pilot project with the Government of the Netherlands. My delegation also  wants to thank the Director-General for the support he has continued to give Kenya's environmental activities  and in particular to the Turkana Resource Evaluating and Monitoring Unit, which comes under UNESCO's  programme on management and use of tropical forests, arid and semi-arid zones. At the same time,  Mr President, while we are grateful for these measures, we would call upon UNESCO to strengthen the study of  mland water ecosystems (lakes, rivers, swamps, etc.), which are vital sources of food for a large number of  people. Equally, Mr President, my delegation notes the emphasis laid on the study of basic sciences but calls for
11   more attention to be given to the study of mathematics and physics. As we have emphasized in the past, we  believe that the study of basic sciences is necessary as a prerequisite to the application of technology.
7.11 Mr President, my delegation is aware of the current role of informatics in developed and developing  countries alike. In this regard, we appreciate the launching of the INFORMAFRICA programme, but note that  for it to succeed, there is need to establish a post of full-time programme specialist at the UNESCO Regional  Office for Science and Technology in Africa, to co-ordinate and provide technical back-up.
7,12 Mr President, with regard to Major Programme Area III (Culture: past, present and future), my  delegation views culture as a sum total of achievement in the human and artistic fields. Music and dances,  painting, sculpture, drama and literature give people their identity and uniqueness, reflecting not only their  imaginative and expressive capacities but also their hopes and aspirations.
7,13 Culture, as it exists in all the communities of the world, contains universal elements and features  which are shared by all humanity. Drama, poetry and fiction, we may hope, do much to remind us of our  common identity as members of the human race. For us in Africa, Mr President, it has taken time to bring other  world communities to recognize and appreciate the existence of our unique cultures because of our inability to  communicate, occasioned by the lack of appropriate technologies. My delegation consequently supports the  spirit of the World Decade for Cultural Development, as it pertains to international cultural co-operation, the  preservation and enrichment of cultural identities, and the preservation and enhancement of the cultural  heritage.
7.14 In this connection, my delegation wishes to see greater efforts directed towards the preservation of  languages that are dying out, of mother tongues and minority languages. We would also wish to see special  attention accorded to the sign languages of the various deaf communities in Africa in line with the  recommendation of the eleventh Congress of the World Federation of the Deaf which took place in Tokyo in
7.15 Concerning plans for the collection, preservation, and dissemination of traditional oral and non-verbal  forms of cultural expression, my delegation considers that these forms of cultural expression will be more fully  appreciated and their promotion greatly enhanced through the sponsoring of regional cultural festivals in each  country, so as to give different ethnolinguistic communities a sense of value and pride in their various forms of  cultural expression. A closely related element of this programme should be the establishment of cultural  centres, especially for the cultural minorities whose identities are threatened by those of their numerically  superior neighbours.
7.16 Mr President, on the theme of culture and development, my delegation sees the need for studies on  cultural compatibility, the objective of which will be to investigate possible sources of culture-based resistance  or unresponsiveness to new development programmes in Africa.
7.17 In Major Programme Area IV (Communication in the service of humanity), my delegation is satisfied  with the new strategy pertaining to the free flow of ideas by word or images, communication for development  and the socio-cultural impact of the new communication technologies. We would, however, like to call for  further assistance to Member States whose technological capacities in communication are characterized by poor  infrastructures and a lack of qualified personnel. Another area where we would like to see further action and  support to Member States is in information collection, storage, dissemination and retrieval. This is because, in  my delegation's view, information-sharing through proper planning of libraries, archives and documentation  centres and increased use of information technology in data handling play an equally important role in  evelopment. Efforts should be made to reduce disparities in this area in order to increase information-sharing;  we consequently support the General Information Programme, which calls for libraries to meet the needs of  information society and lays stress on their intercultural role during the World Decade for Cultural  Development.
7.18 Communication, Mr President, and mass media in particular play a major role in mediating the values  inherent in the relationships between cultures. With the global expansion of the communication industry,  television and film production companies, news agencies, advertising firms and publishing houses, as well as  transnational corporations of massive scope have developed. In their strategy of diversification, many industrial  corporations have adopted communication as a profitable investment.
7.19 With the growth of the transnational communication industrial complex, there is a growing concern  about how these structures can synchronize different cultures, and how the rich diversity of humankind's  cultural heritage can be preserved. The different manifestations of communication, including news,  entertainment, educational materials, children's comics, women's magazines, recorded music, computer-based  data systems and satellite communication systems must match the requirements of both developed and  developing worlds. Because of such problems, Mr President, there is a growing need for the development of  comprehensive communication policies by the Member States, and my delegation calls on UNESCO to increase  its assistance to them in this field.
7.20 Mr President, social and human sciences play a very important part in shaping man's struggle for  development. Proper planning, the formulation of appropriate policies and the effective implementation and  administration of development projects and programmes, especially in a developing country, require a sound  knowledge of the social and human sciences. Experience indicates that these disciplines are essential if not  critical to public policy and administration. UNESCO's programmes in education, science, culture and  communication, international peace and co-operation and understanding, as well as human rights, cannot be  realized fully without a strong programme in social sciences.
7.21 A few years ago, purely technological institutions began to make their appearance in the world, under  the influence of the philosophy that a scientist did not need to study social or human sciences. Experience has  since shown that these two disciplines are indispensable in human as well as societal development. It is against  this background that my delegation wishes to record its endorsement of the activities envisaged in Major  Programme Area V, particularly the attention given to university training and research in social and human  sciences, women and youth. By these activities, UNESCO will be not only promoting advancement of  knowledge and methods in certain areas of social and human sciences, but also contributing to human resource  capacity building in developing countries, especially in Africa. In particular, my delegation notes with keen  interest the proposed activity relating to development policies and university training.
7,22 Mr President, in the area of UNESCO's contribution to prospective studies and strategies concerned  with development, my delegation wishes to record its appreciation of UNESCO's efforts to promote the  development of human resources. We call upon the Organization to extend its training programme on human  resource development to include assistance in the establishment of an institution for advanced training in the  social sciences in Africa. It is well known that the development effort cannot be fully achieved without highly  trained social scientists who can conceive, formulate and implement programmes.
7.23 Mr President, equally, UNESCO's contribution to peace and human rights is a very important  programme. We are all aware that the Organization was founded with the aim of promoting international co-  operation in education, science and culture, in the hope that through co-operation in education the international  community could contribute to its own peace and security.
7.24 The 1974 Recommendation concerning Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and  Peace and Education relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is an elaboration of the ideas  regarding the role of education as an instrument through which internationalism could be promoted and  inculcated in the minds of men. The 1990 Jomtien Conference and Declaration on Education for All  underscored the point when the Conference observed that problems facing mankind today would continue to  constrain efforts to provide basic education needed for the achievement of international understanding, co-  operation and peace and the overcoming of these problems unless a major curriculum innovation was  undertaken to bring into focus international understanding, co-operation and peace and education relating to  human rights and fundamental freedoms.
7.25 Mr President, at the international level, Kenya ‘has always been guided by the policy of good  neighbourliness, international understanding, co-operation and peace. In this context, we strongly support  appeals already made by countries within our region for greater resource assistance to their economies as a  result of devastating civil wars as well as drought. Kenya believes in peace and equality of all peoples. We  consider all forms of discrimination and violation of human rights as a threat to international peace and  understanding. With regard to human rights, my delegation feels that more attention should be given to cultural  rights, linguistic rights and the rights of minorities. We appreciate what UNESCO is doing to eliminate  discrimination against people infected by the AIDS virus. We feel that the list of discriminated categories  should be extended to include the disabled and religious minorities.
7.26 Mr President, the challenges before UNESCO are enormous. In order to tackle them, our Organization  requires new energies, new vision and revitalization. UNESCO needs to be in the Member States and the  Member States need to be in UNESCO, so that their combined energies, intellectual capacity and  resourcefulness can be mutually sustaining. To this end, the measures being taken to realize reforms must be  strengthened. Decentralization measures already initiated must not loose momentum and must not be  constrained due to fears and uncertainty, because it is in the Member States that the intellectual community is  to be found that can provide new breath to the Organization through the National Commissions.
7.27 Mr President, on the road to a new world order, a road which we must not allow to become clogged  with litter and consequent decay, UNESCO needs to take the lead. It must take the lead, too, in forging a new  world culture composed of the diversity of cultures, one which will enable all the members of the international  community to understand one another in order to be able to address the challenges facing humanity.  Mr President, some of these challenges have no respect for boundaries. The international community needs to  stand together, act together and survive together. Thank you.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Kenya for his contribution. I now call on H.E. Mr Madzengue-  Younous, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology and head of the delegation of Congo.
9.1 M. MADZENGUE-YOUNOUS (Congo) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au nom du  gouvernement de la République du Congo que j'ai l'honneur de représenter, au nom de la délégation congolaise  ici présente et en mon nom personnel, jadresse mes sincères félicitations au Président de la Conférence  générale de notre organisation commune brillamment élu à sa vingt-sixième session. Monsieur le Président,  vous pouvez compter d'ores et déjà sur le soutien de notre délégation pour le succès des travaux des présentes  assises de la Conférence générale ; nous faisons confiance à cet égard à votre compétence et à votre expérience  reconnues par tous.
9.2 Monsieur le Président, la démocratie au sein des sociétés et le dialogue entre les nations sont  assurément les valeurs qui constituent désormais le socle du développement des sociétés. Dans ce monde du  XXe siècle finissant, dans ce monde en pleine mutation et qui ne cesse de se chercher encore, le Congo ne  demeure pas en marge des grands bouleversements. Ainsi, le Congo vient de s'engager sur la voie de la  démocratie afin de mieux garantir le bien-être socio-économique de ses citoyens, la diversité des opinions et la  diversité culturelle. La Conférence nationale souveraine qui s'est tenue du 25 février au 10 juin 1991 à  Brazzaville a fait le bilan exhaustif de la vie nationale de notre pays depuis les 30 ans de notre indépendance.  En ce qui concerne l'école et l'enseignement en général, il s'agit de concilier sans délai la démocratie  quantitative avec une amélioration sensible des conditions de travail, avec un accroissement de la compétence  ct des rendements des enseignants, des étudiants et des élèves, avec une accentuation résolue de l'éducation  scientifique et artistique pour des produits scolaires et culturels en quantités et de très bonne qualité en vue de  la construction d'un pays prospère, souverain et beau.
9.3 Monsieur le Président, à la vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale, la délégation du Congo  évoquait, du haut de cette tribune, les graves problèmes du poids de la dette des pays en développement.  Aujourd'hui, ce cri d'alarme reste actuel car la dette a conduit certains pays à l'état de complète asphyxie  économique, à tel point qu'il y a lieu de redéfinir les critères de classification des pays en pays à revenu  intermédiaire (PRI) et des pays moins avancés (PMA). En effet, si à une époque donnée, tel ou tel autre pays  pouvait mériter d'être classé comme pays à revenu intermédiaire, il n'en serait certainement plus question  aujourd'hui, du fait des effets conjugués de la crise économique et du surendettement. Tel est le cas de mon pays  qui devrait bien être classé dorénavant comme PMA, ce qui lui permettrait de bénéficier, à juste titre, de l'aide  multiforme et bienveillante de la communauté internationale. L'effort appréciable que font les grandes  puissances pour réduire les dépenses militaires, notamment d'armement, devra se traduire par une aide accrue  envers les PMA afin de promouvoir une paix plus véritable, dans un monde débarrassé des grands maux que  sont l'analphabétisme, la famine, la maladie et la pauvreté.
04 Monsieur le Président, s'agissant de l'objet même de notre rencontre intellectuelle internationale,  centrée sur l'analyse et l'appréciation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, ma délégation ne  saurait cacher sa grande satisfaction des efforts réalisés par le Secrétariat qui ont effectivement rendu plus  lisible, plus accessible et donc mieux exploitable le document 26 C/5. Notre satisfaction est aussi grande en ce
398   qui concerne les orientations et les recommandations du Conseil exécutif relatives au prochain exercice  budgétaire.
9.5 Monsieur le Président, nous marquons notre accord à la référence au Plan à moyen terme dans  l'élaboration du 26 C/5, à sa structure en sept champs majeurs de programme et aux projets mobilisateurs  approuvés à la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, car la concentration du programme en  domaines prioritaires, la décentralisation de l'exécution par le biais d'une responsabilisation plus affirmée des  bureaux régionaux sont les grands principes qui ont présidé à l'élaboration du Plan à moyen terme et du 25 C/5.
9.6 En ce qui concerne le champ de programme I - L'éducation et l'avenir, la lutte contre l'analphabétisme  et l'éducation de base pour tous exigent une mobilisation accrue des communautés nationales qui peut être  valablement assumée dans un cadre de concertation régionale. Le programme "Vers une éducation de base pour  tous” s'inscrit bien dans la nouvelle perspective tracée par la Conférence mondiale de Jomtien : liaison entre la  lutte contre l'analphabétisme et l'action en faveur de l'éducation de base pour tous, renforcement de la qualité de  l'enseignement fondamental et généralisation de l'enseignement préscolaire, etc.
9.7 S'agissant du champ majeur de programme II - La science pour le progrès et l'environnement, le  Congo qui a opté depuis sa dernière conférence nationale souveraine pour une politique nouvelle de la science  et de la technologie, soutient les objectifs énoncés dans ce champ'de programme, En effet, pour le Congo : "La  réhabilitation de la science et de la technologie en tant que moteurs du développement doit constituer désormais  un élément majeur dans le cadre de la définition des priorités nationales, dans la perspective d'une plus grande  indépendance de notre pays... la science et la technologie créatrices du progrès doivent apporter une  contribution maximale, pour un développement harmonieux et accéléré, particulièrement dans le processus  d'élaboration et de mise en oeuvre des stratégies et plans." Le Congo a toujours manifesté un intérêt particulier  pour la formation tendant à intégrer la science et la technologie dans le processus du développement. La  nouvelle politique de la science et de la technologie ainsi préconisée exige la maîtrise des mécanismes de  transfert de technologie qui prennent en compte les aspects psychologiques et socioculturels.
9.8 A propos du champ majeur de programme III - La culture : passé, présent, avenir, notre intérêt se  porte sur les actions prévues au titre du programme "Coopération culturelle internationale, préservation et  enrichissement des identités culturelles”. Il importe de renforcer le rôle de l'UNESCO dans ce domaine.  L'UNESCO devra contribuer à promouvoir les partenariats culturels pour compléter ainsi la coopération et  l'enrichissement des identités culturelles. Il en est ainsi du soutien apporté par l'UNESCO à des festivals  culturels du genre "Salon sous-régional du livre” dans le cadre duquel le Congo pourrait organiser un carrefour  du livre de l'Afrique centrale. S'agissant du programme "La culture pour la développement", il importe  d'entreprendre une action de sensibilisation au fait culturel en direction des décideurs administratifs, politiques  et économiques pour que des ressources plus importantes soient affectées à l'action culturelle. Nous espérons  que l'accroissement des ressources prévues pour les activités relatives au premier objectif de la Décennie  mondiale du développement culturel permettront d'organiser dans la région Afrique des réunions appropriées.  Pour sa part, le Congo souhaiterait participer activement à de telles activités et pourrait même envisager  d'abriter des réunions régionales ou sous-régionales. Le Congo apporte son appui à la création d'un comité  indépendant chargé d'élaborer un rapport sur la culture et le développement et souhaite que la responsabilité de  ce projet soit confiée à l'Organisation.
9.9 Le programme "Préservation et mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel” rencontre notre agrément.  Toutefois, pour les pays à tradition orale comme le mien, il est nécessaire d'entreprendre une action appuyée en  vue de la préservation du patrimoine non physique, pour lequel une action de sauvetage s'impose.
9.10 Le champ majeur de programme IV - La communication au service de l'humanité a fait l'objet d'une  attention particulière de mon pays, qui réitère le voeu de voir l'Afrique subsaharienne disposer d'un satellite de  communications grâce à l'apport du Programme international pour le développement de la communication,  dont les actions méritent bien d'être encouragées, soutenues et élargies.
9.11 S'agissant du champ majeur de programme V - Les sciences sociales et humaines face à un monde en  mutation, le Congo approuve les orientations qui mettent l'accent sur la rénovation et le développement des  programmes d'enseignement supérieur en sciences sociales et humaines, la diffusion de l'information  philosophique, le changement dans les systèmes urbains, ainsi que la situation des femmes et des jeunes. Par  ailleurs, l'accent doit être mis sur le développement des programmes d'enseignement de la philosophie en  Afrique, notamment par la documentation et le financement, en vue de l'élaboration des manuels de
11   philosophie sous l'égide du Conseil interafricain de philosophie. Le Congo apporte son appui aux projets de  recherche sur les questions épistémologiques concernant des disciplines comme la philosophie des sciences, la  biologie, la linguistique, la sociologie et la psychologie.
9.12 Monsieur le Président, rappelez-vous, Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables délégués, que dans sa  première conférence de presse en novembre 1987, le Directeur général de l'UNESCO s'engageait  personnellement à ce que l'Afrique soit une priorité pour l'UNESCO, et cet engagement a été plusieurs fois  réitéré à la dernière session de la Conférence générale et aux différentes sessions du Conseil exécutif. Oui,  l'Afrique, comme vous le savez, est un continent en difficulté sur tous les plans. L'Afrique est un grand malade,  un malade qui exige des soins particuliers, spécifiques et urgents afin de lui permettre de sortir de son retard et,  partant, d'aider le monde à vivre dans l'harmonie, loin des barrières qui répartissent le monde en pays  développés, donc nantis, et en pays sous-développés, donc malheureux. Le mur de Berlin, par la volonté et la  détermination des hommes, a cessé d'exister. Mais le vrai mur de la honte, celui qui coupe notre planète en  deux, est encore là, debout devant nous, tel un mur infranchissable. Il nous faut aussi le vaincre.
9.13 C'est parce que le Congo soutient fermement le programme "Priorité Afrique” que nous aimerions le  voir clairement explicité dans le prochain programme de l'UNESCO, car "Priorité Afrique” est un programme  d'action dont les objectifs et stratégies correspondent bien aux préoccupations actuelles de l'Afrique. Dans la  plupart des pays africains, la situation, loin de s'améliorer malgré la thérapeutique du FMI et de la Banque  mondiale - à travers les plans d'ajustement structurel aux conséquences sociales néfastes - va en se dégradant.  "Priorité Afrique" est donc un cri d'alarme et une demande pressante de voir l'UNESCO contribuer activement,  dans ses domaines de compétence, au déblocage des situations graves, dramatiques, de ce continent, tels  l'analphabétisme, le paludisme, le sida, etc. Il est vrai que les deux derniers fléaux cités sont une haute priorité  de l'OMS, mais l'éducation en matière de santé doit, avec l'aide de l'UNESCO, être approfondie et répandue de  façon adaptée dans le cadre de la coopération existant entre l'UNESCO, l'OMS et l'UNICEF. Je vous remercie  de votre aimable attention.  i0. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Congo.  COMMUNICATIONS DU PRESIDENT  ANNOUNCEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT  COMUNICACIONES DEL PRESIDENTE  COOBIMEHHS HMPEACENATEJS  oma Al a lid  EEE A
111 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make two important  announcements.
11.2 First of all, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Pérez de Cuéllar, will make a visit to  UNESCO tomorrow, in the afternoon, and will address the General Conference.
11.3 Secondly, H.E. the President of Peru, Mr Alberto Fujimori, will make a visit to UNESCO on Thursday,
24 October, at 4 p.m. A special plenary session will be held on Thursday afternoon to welcome the President,  who will address the General Conference. Thank you.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacion)  OBCYXIEHUE BOIIPOCOB OBIILEH INOJIUTUKN (npopomxenue)  (ps5) el] Roll IRL  DERE (4)
12. The PRESIDENT:  It is now my pleasure to give the floor to Mr Diallo, the Executive Secretary of the Economic  Commission for Africa.
13.1  M. DIALLO (Commission économique des Nations Unies pour l'Afrique) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est pour  moi un grand honneur et un privilège de pouvoir m'adresser à cette auguste assemblée et, ce faisant, je  voudrais, de prime abord, remercier le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, M. Federico Mayor, de son aimable  invitation. Permettez-moi aussi, Monsieur le Président, de joindre ma voix à celle des honorables délégués qui  m'ont précédé à cette tribune pour vous féliciter pour votre élection. La communauté internationale a voulu  ainsi, à travers votre personne, honorer le Kenya, votre pays, et l'Afrique, votre continent. Votre expérience et  votre sagesse constituent pour nous un gage de la réussite des travaux de cette session.
13.2 — Monsieur le Président, le mandat général de l'UNESCO dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science  et de la culture, est d'un intérêt particulier pour l'Afrique. Pour notre part, nous sommes en mesure d'apprécier  la contribution pertinente de votre Organisation dans ces domaines, et son apport à la solution de nombreux  problèmes auxquels notre continent fait face. En effet, sous la houlette de l'UNESCO et grâce à ses efforts  persistants, de nombreux pays ont accompli des progrès louables dans les domaines de l'éducation et de la  formation. La mise au point de programmes d'alphabétisation des adultes et d'éducation permanente a contribué  de façon considérable à ouvrir l'esprit de ceux qui n'ont pas eu accès à l'enseignement de type scolaire et à leur  donner une arme pour combattre l'ignorance et faire reculer les frontières du savoir et de la compréhension.
13.3 Nous sommes également conscients de la contribution de l'UNESCO au développement et à  l'amélioration qualitative de l'enseignement de type scolaire, face à la demande de plus en plus pressante d'une  éducation plus étendue et améliorée à tous les niveaux. L'évolution démographique pose un défi réel aux Etats  membres, s'agissant notamment de la capacité des pays à assurer une éducation de la plus haute qualité. Les  contraintes financières et la nécessité pressante de créer davantage de possibilités d'éducation sont des  problèmes réels auxquels de nombreux pays doivent faire face. L'UNESCO a continué d'être l'instance au sein  de laquelle ces problèmes peuvent être examinés et où des solutions à caractère général ou spécifique peuvent  être trouvées pour faire face aux exigences des pays ou groupes de pays.
134 La formation de cadres supérieurs dans les différentes filières scientifiques et techniques a été une  préoccupation majeure en Afrique. Malgré les efforts louables déployés pour multiplier les chances d'accès à  l'enseignement supérieur, tant localement qu'au moyen de bourses d'études à l'étranger, de nombreux pays  connaissent aujourd'hui encore des pénuries de main-d'oeuvre. L'Afrique se préoccupe des aspects aussi bien  quantitatifs que qualitatifs du problème car les systèmes éducatifs se doivent de produire des scientifiques et des  techniciens capables de résoudre les problèmes propres à notre continent. Le débat continu sur la pertinence de  nos systèmes éducatifs devrait nous pousser à apporter les améliorations nécessaires tant au contenu des  programmes de formation qu'aux systèmes d'enseignement.
13.5 Dans le domaine de la recherche-développement, nous sommes tous conscients que l'Afrique a fait des  progrès très modestes. En 1987, l'UNESCO a indiqué que les dépenses totales consacrées à la recherche-  développement représentaient 0,36 % du PNB de l'Afrique, alors que les chiffres concernant les autres régions  étaient beaucoup plus élevés. En effet, l'objectif de 1 % du PIB préconisé à la première session de  CASTAFRICA en 1974 est loin d'être atteint par la plupart des pays. Il est également nécessaire d'émettre des  réserves quant à l'interprétation des résultats obtenus en matière de développement et d'application de la science  et de la technique. Si nous devons encourager les pays à faire davantage d'efforts dans ce domaine, il faut  toutefois savoir que la recherche-développement n'est qu'un aspect de la capacité que nous souhaitons mettre en  place en matière de science et technique. Les gouvernements devraient également s'intéresser à une gamme  plus variée d'activités scientifiques et techniques et pas seulement à la recherche-développement, comme cela a  été traditionnellement le cas. En effet, les programmes de formation scientifique et technique, l'adaptation de la  technologie, la quête de techniques importées, le dégroupage des technologies, les services consultatifs et les  études techniques, le contrôle de la qualité et la normalisation, entre autres, sont des activités qui doivent être  incorporées dans un programme global de développement de la science et de la technique.
136 Une autre question a trait au contenu et à la portée de la recherche elle-même. Quels problèmes  figurent dans le programme national de recherche, et quelle stratégie de recherche adoptons-nous ?  Malheureusement, on entend souvent parler de résultats de recherche livrés à la poussière dans nos universités  et dans nos laboratoires de recherche ! Il y a manifestement lieu de chercher à les commercialiser. Ce problème  amène à poser deux questions simples : pourquoi, par exemple, pourquoi donc avoir mené ces travaux de  recherche, et quelle est la nature des résultats qui n'ont apparemment pas trouvé d'utilisateur ? L'insuffisance  des ressources de la plupart des pays d'Afrique appelle effectivement l'élaboration d'un programme de recherche
11   mieux administré, tant du point de vue de la stratégie que de celui du choix judicieux des problèmes que la  recherche doit aider à résoudre. L'accroissement des dépenses publiques de recherche-développement dont il a  été tant question a été justifié dans certains pays par des raisons de survie nationale, de compétitivité sur le plan  technique et commercial entre rivaux et, plus fondamentalement peut-être, par la nécessité de produire des  biens et services permettant de satisfaire les besoins de leurs ressortissants. Assurément, si la recherche-  développement en Afrique et dans les pays en développement n'est pas axée sur les priorités nationales, elle  sera peu utile au bien-être de nos populations. Dans ce genre de scénario, l'accroissement des efforts de  recherche-développement ne ferait qu'améliorer l'image statistique des pays concernés mais représenterait un  gaspillage de ressources rares.
13.7 Je voudrais maintenant, Monsieur le Président, en arriver à la collaboration entre la CEA et  l'UNESCO pour ce qui est des services rendus aux pays africains. Nos deux organisations soeurs ont oeuvré en  collaboration étroite à la recherche de solutions aux problèmes rencontrés par nos Etats membres ainsi qu'à  l'élaboration de stratégies appropriées dans plusieurs domaines. Cette coopération ne date pas d'aujourd'hui. À  cet égard, je voudrais rappeler la Conférence internationale parrainée conjointement par la CEA et l'UNESCO,  qui s'est tenue en 1964 à Lagos, sur l'organisation de la recherche et de la formation en Afrique, avec un accent  particulier sur l'étude, la préservation et l'utilisation des ressources naturelles. Les recommandations émises lors  de cette réunion ont considérablement influé sur les organes chargés des politiques de développement de la  science et de la technique dans de nombreux pays. En 1974 et en 1987, chacune des deux organisations a  organisé avec le concours de l'autre les première et deuxième sessions, respectivement, de CASTAFRICA.  Dans l'intervalle, les deux organisations ont travaillé ensemble dans de nombreux domaines, notamment la  mise en valeur et l'utilisation de la main-d'oeuvre de haut niveau, les systèmes de documentation et  d'information, la science et la technique, les ressources de la mer, les ressources naturelles, l'énergie, la  cartographie et la télédétection, les statistiques, etc. Cette collaboration s'est concrétisée par la signature en mai
1979 d'un accord entre le Directeur général de l'UNESCO et le Secrétaire exécutif de la CEA. Cet accord a  également mis en place une structure : une réunion conjointe de concertation qui examine réguHhèrement les  progrès réalisés dans l'exécution de projets communs et définit les activités à entreprendre dans le cadre de  nouveaux programmes conjoints.
138 Monsieur le Président, comme les membres de votre auguste assemblée le savent bien, l'Afrique a été,  durant les années 80, en proie à une crise économique et sociale aiguë et persistante. Cette dernière s'est  traduite par la désertification, la faim et la famine, le déclin de la production industrielle et une foule d'autres  problèmes connexes. Au nombre des graves effets produits sur le plan du développement figurent  l'accroissement de la dette extérieure, le recul de la demande des produits de base de l'Afrique, ainsi que la  baisse des prix offerts pour ces produits sur les marchés mondiaux. Tous ces facteurs ont eu un effet désastreux  sur l'effort de développement dans le continent. L'épreuve de l'Afrique est trop criante pour qu'on ne la prenne  pas en compte : en effet, 28 des 42 pays les plus pauvres du monde sont africains ; sa production économique  par habitant a baissé tout au long des années 80 ; son agriculture est encore, dans la plupart des cas, restée  primitive ; pour ce qui est de son développement industriel, il reste également fortement tributaire des  importations de technologies, de capitaux et de main-d'oeuvre qualifiée.
13.9 En dépit des nombreux obstacles auxquels l'Afrique est confrontée, il est de notre devoir au sein de la  communauté internationale de nous mobiliser derrière les gouvernements africains dans la recherche de  solutions. Vous avez certainement connaissance des efforts persistants déployés par la Commission économique  pour l'Afrique et son secrétariat, ainsi que de l'important soutien accordé par les Nations Unies en vue de  trouver des solutions aux maux de l'Afrique. Cet effort doit se poursuivre. À la CEA, nous allons le faire par  une utilisation plus rationnelle de nos ressources humaines et financières, qui doivent être consacrées d'abord  aux priorités de l'Afrique en matière de développement économique et social.
13.10 Nous tenons en effet à amener la Commission a jouer un plus grand rôle dans la solution des  problèmes socio-économiques de l'Afrique. À cette fin, nous avons commencé un inventaire afin de voir la  meilleure façon dont la Commission peut bâtir sur ses acquis passés et réagir de façon novatrice aux défis qui se  posent à une région en pleine mutation. Nous sommes, en fait, en train d'examiner la question de savoir quelles  nouvelles orientations et améliorations apporter à l'approche des problèmes, aux programmes et à la capacité de  gestion de la Commission, ceci dans une conjoncture où les ressources consacrées à l'aide au développement  dans le cadre multilatéral connaissent une réduction dramatique. Un groupe d'experts de haut niveau, composé  d'experts principaux africains et internationaux, a été mis sur pied pour aider à cette analyse.
13.11 Monsieur le Président, le défi qui se pose aux gouvernements africains est un défi colossal, qui  demandera un effort soutenu et rigoureux de plusieurs générations. Mais ce qu'il faut aujourd'hui, c'est que les  gouvernements africains réagissent eux-mêmes et convenablement tant en adoptant des politiques susceptibles  de mobiliser les énergies qu'en manifestant la nécessaire volonté politique de s'attaquer aux problèmes. A cet  égard, on ne saurait trop insister sur deux vérités. La première, c'est l'importance de la contribution de la  communauté internationale à travers les institutions du système des Nations Unies. La seconde vérité, c'est que  quelle que soit l'importance de cette aide, elle ne sera jamais qu'un appoint aux efforts fournis par les Africains  eux-mêmes.
13.12 Monsieur le Président, sur ces deux vérités premières, je vous remercie de votre aimable attention et  vous souhaite plein succès dans vos travaux.
14. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much Mr Diallo. I now give the floor to H.E. Mr M. Chona, Ambassador of Zambia to  France and head of the delegation of Zambia.
15.1 M. CHONA (Zambie) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur générai, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, c'est pour moi un grand  honneur de parler à cette tribune internationale au nom de mon pays, la République de Zambie, et de participer,  parmi cette élite exceptionnelle de penseurs, de scientifiques, d'hommes de lettres et de culture, aux travaux de  la vingt-sixième session de cette grande Conférence.
15.2 Je suis heureux de joindre ma voix à celle des autres orateurs qui m'ont précédé pour féliciter le  Président de la Conférence générale, mon ami le professeur Ogot, de la confiance internationale méritée qui lui  a été témoignée. C'est un bon choix, car nous connaissons son expérience, sa compétence, sa capacité de travail  et la sûreté de son jugement. Je voudrais également rendre hommage au rôle positif de l'UNESCO et à son  action constructive et humanitaire. Il me faut enfin saluer les efforts déployés par le Directeur général,  M. Federico Mayor, et tous les membres du Secrétariat de l'Organisation pour assurer le bon fonctionnement de  celle-ci et l'efficacité maximale de ses activités, et aussi rendre hommage au Conseil exécutif pour le grand rôle  qu'il a joué en matière de suivi, de coordination et de rationalisation. Mes félicitations spéciales vont au  Président du Conseil, M. Aliyu, du Nigéria,  (L'orateur poursuit en anglais)
15.3 Secondly, Mr President, I would also like to convey my sincere apologies from the Minister of Higher  Education, Science and Technology, the Hon. Professor Lamek Goma, who has been unable to attend this  Conference. Our President, Dr Kenneth Kaunda, very much wanted the Minister to be here, but it was later  found impractical in view of the national elections under the multi-party system due to be held on 31 October
1991, in ten days time. I met him last week Mr President and he asked me to extend to you his warmest  greetings and wish this Conference every success.
15.4 Mr President, the purpose of UNESCO is to contribute to peace and security, and to advance the  common welfare of mankind by promoting collaboration among nations through education, science and culture  in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights and fundamental  freedoms, which are affirmed for the peoples of the world by the Charter of the United Nations. It is important,  Mr President, that we constantly remind ourselves of these noble aims of UNESCO's founding fathers.
15.5 Mr President, Sir, this Conference is being held at a most historic moment. Although the world is  confronted with regional hot spots of crisis, the situation has changed remarkably. The Cold War and the  ideological struggle between the East and West has somewhat ended - somewhat - along with the madness of  the arms race. We are witnessing the elimination of the threat of a nuclear holocaust by the destruction of  weapons which would have destroyed our earth 60 times over. Up to now, Mr President, no scientist has any  idea whether there exists any other place, any other star with life on it, and yet we are mad enough to possess  weapons which would destroy the only place, the only star, where life exists. By the way I understand that even  those nuclear weapons which are to be destroyed, are mainly weapons which are out of fashion; new ones are  still being made - and we call for the destruction of all these too, Mr President. Efforts are being made to  resolve regional conflicts, as in the Middle East and in countries threatened by civil war. We also welcome the  decolonization process. We are glad that Nelson Mandela and the other freedom-fighters are out of prison and
11   that apartheid is now being condemned even by the racists themselves. The use of blacks to kill blacks is the  last kick of a dying horse and we hope that Mr Mandela, Chief Buthelezi and other leaders will continue their  efforts to make such a shameful policy a thing of the past.
15.6 However, Mr President, UNESCO, as a worldwide organization of educated, talented and eminent  persons, should calmly assess the present political and economic trends in the world after the failure and  abandonment of communism. Where are we going now? Where are we going, Mr President, from here? It  seems that more than ever before our policies in the developing countries will be coming from the Western  capitals. We are told to adopt radical economic reforms of a market economy. To market whose goods? It is  increasingly hard, Mr President, to acquire technology which is necessary to compete in the production of  goods for the world market. We are being told, Mr President, to privatize, to decontrol prices and to do away  with subsidies! Above all, we should not tell our people that these policies are being dictated from outside. We  are expected to say that they are our own policies and are supposed to enable us to pay our international debts!  Mr President, we see the sharp contrast of economic policies. In the developed countries we find a heavily  subsidized economy, subsidies to both the producer and the consumer. Sometimes the producer is subsidized as  a way of protecting the consumer. We are told that this should be done in our own way in our own country.
15.7 UNESCO, Mr President, should remind us that the new international order in which some countries  continue to be horribly rich while others continue to be horribly poor will lead to a complete international  disorder similar to a nuclear holocaust. At this point, Mr President, I am glad to say that there has been a  Harare Declaration by the Commonwealth on democracy. Of course, it was at first thought that we would resist  democracy in Africa. I wonder why people like myself and others have been fighting, even prepared to die,  though we pride ourselves on being survivors, because we wanted freedom and democracy. And yet some  people in their madness have said that we are for dictatorship and the rule of the gun, which is not the case. I  am happy that the declaration on democracy took place in Harare. Of course we are for democracy. If a country  chooses to be a one-party State that is its choice. If it chooses to be multi-party that too is its choice.
15.8 The United Nations through its relevant organs has done a commendable job to avert such a human  catastrophe and it requires our total support as members to control these very dangerous, selfish attitudes which  are developing. These are challenges which the international community in general and UNESCO in particular  must fight against for the cause of freedom, peace, justice, international understanding and equality of all the  peoples of the world. Until peace, justice, security, international understanding and fairness in trade are fully  established in all parts of the world, the efforts of the world community to bring about socio-economic as well  as scientific and technological development will be fruitless.
15.9 Mr President, Sir, the general principle of concentrating our Organization's human and financial  resources on jointly identified priority areas covered by the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995) is most  welcome to us. We appreciate that the activities within the priority areas have been designed ‘to meet the urgent  expectations’ of developing countries, including women. However, the challenge of our Organization is to  actually implement such activities so as to meet the felt needs of the target groups. In this respect I should again  stress the importance to most developing countries of the need to develop and strengthen their capacities in  science and technology and to protect the environment, especially by ensuring that the wealth of the world is  equitably shared among the peoples of the world.
15.10 My delegation fully endorses the programme of action contained in the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1992-1993. We also welcome the reaffirmation that UNESCO should do all it can to meet the challenges of  its mission, namely to help develop and promote education, science, culture and communication in the interests  of sustainable development, world peace, international understanding and co-operation. It is our fervent hope  that in the future efforts will be made to find better methods for the allocation of human and financial resources  for the execution of programme actions. And coupled with this is the need to assist national governments to  strengthen National Commissions as focal points for such concerted efforts.
15.11 Mr President, Sir, the World Conference on Education for All, which was held in Thailand, opened  new avenues for encouragement, commitment and determination by the world community to provide adequate  learning opportunities for all. It is now not a matter of debate. The challenge for our various nations,  particularly the developing countries, is to provide both quantitative and qualitative improvements in education  with the ultimate goal of eradicating the scourge of illiteracy. The achievement of quality basic education for all  will no doubt eliminate the illiteracy syndrome. However, this is a daunting task for most of our developing  nations in view of the currently harsh and unfair economic policies which have reduced our financial resources.
404   This is a litany, a song, to which we always return. But we are encouraged by the world community's response  and UNESCO's commitment to finding a lasting solution to the problem. Of course it will come through our  raising our voices - we are the victims. But if the victims do not shout loud enough, our sympathizers in the  Western world will become discouraged. There are a lot of people fighting for us but usually we are not loud  enough in our shouting.
15.12 It is accepted that perhaps the greatest threat to mankind today is environment degradation. It is also  true that development is inextricably linked with the proper use and management of the environment. Should  development projects ignore the present and concentrate on the future? Most of the environmental problems are  very technical and scientific in nature. Developing countries which have a weak technological and scientific  base might find it extremely difficult to cope with such enormous and inescapable problems. Each time, we go  back to the problem of transfer of technology from the North to the South to reduce a yawning science gap.
15.13 Nevertheless, Mr President, my delegation is quite satisfied with the emphasis placed on science and  technology and higher education and the role they should play in development in general and environmental  protection in particular. It is in the areas of science and technology as well as in higher education that  sustainable development and the rational use of natural resources could be fruitfully achieved.
15.14 Mr President, please allow me to end by briefly making the following points on Zambia's efforts in  education: Zambia has made significant achievements in the area of basic education. The enrolment at Grade 1  is now about 95 per cent; as a follow-up to the World Conference on Education for All held in Thailand,  Zambia formed a task force comprised of some donor agencies, educationists and administrators. This task  force organized a national conference on education for all which produced a set of strategies on the quality of  basic education and combating illiteracy. The report on these strategies is awaiting government approval. The  government has set up a national literacy campaign committee to spearhead various national efforts at grass-  roots level; Zambia's literacy rate is now at 65 per cent - regrettably two thirds of illiterates are women - and  consequently our campaign emphasizes women and girls. In an effort to improve the teaching of science and  technology, the government has set up a national science centre with the help of UNESCO and UNDP. The  centre produces low-cost science and mathematics teaching equipment. Two sub-centres have been set up for  the repair and maintenance of school science equipment. UNESCO has financed a national training workshop  for personnel responsible for identifying and formulating development projects. A national training workshop  for literacy trainers, financed by UNESCO, was held in April this year. I should stress that Zambia's literacy  programmes are geared towards functional literacy such as health care, child care, basic agriculture and the  fight against the AIDS epidemic. Zambia has already begun making preparations for the observance in 1994 of  the International Year of the Family.
15.15 Zambia, Mr President, is very concerned about out-of-school and unemployed youth. In this connection  we have inttiated a pilot project for street children with the assistance of UNICEF. A survey has been carried  out in urban areas with a view to working out strategies to deal with the problem.
15.16 I should sum up by saying that Zambia has the most ambitious plans and targets in education.  However, our efforts on all these fronts have been hampered by the adverse economic arrangements which are  disadvantageous to the developing world. In conclusion, Mr President, I would again like to thank the  Executive Board for the way in which they have solved most of our problems, which would otherwise have  taken up the time of this Conference. My thanks also go to regional groups - the relevant ones to me being the  Group of 77 and the African Group. My special thanks go to the presidents of these groups and to many others  who have devoted a lot of their time to work for consensus and compromises. Regarding the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, I am sure that you will agree with me that he has thoroughly proved himself as a faithful  servant who listens to any constructive advice. I should therefore join in the appeal to all those countries who  left the Organization to come back. Muchas gracias Señor Presidente.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Zambia and I now give the floor to the Hon. U.K. Mlambala,  Minister of Education and Culture and head of the delegation of Malawi.
17.1 Mr MLAMBALA (Malawi):  Mr President, leaders of delegation, distinguished guests, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow  me first of all to express my gratitude for this opportunity to present my country's paper to the General
11   Conference. 1 wish to convey the goodwill of my President, Ngwazi Dr H. Kamuzu Banda, and the people of  Malawi for the success of this session.
172 Mr President, allow me also, like previous speakers, to express to you on my own behalf and that of my  delegation, our congratulations to you and also to your Bureau, on your elections. I have every hope that you  will steer our deliberations to the right conclusion. I also wish to express the appreciation of my delegation to  the Director-General and his staff for the great work they have done in preparing for our Conference. It is not  easy to bring the whole world together and at the same time ensure that all relevant documentation is received  on time. To the French Government and their people, our eternal gratitude for their continued hospitality. May  I also take this opportunity to offer my sincere congratulations to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Tuvalu on  becoming members of UNESCO.
17.3 Let me begin my statement by focusing on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993. As the  representative of an evolving country, I note with interest the main lines of emphasis for this coming biennium,  namely, the least developed countries (LDCs); Member States of the Africa region; and women. Indeed, as  mentioned by the Director-General in his Introduction to document 26 C/5, the emphasis on these three  categories has been reflected in all major programme areas and priority components of the draft programme  and budget.
174 Mr President, since its inception, our Organization has pursued the ideal of maintaining peace and  promoting intellectual co-operation; all its programmes have been shaped by this ethical mission. Probably as a  result, it has looked at itself as a merely catalytic agent, providing, in the words of the popular saying, ‘the  yeast, and not the bread’.
17.5 It is now about 45 years since UNESCO was formed, and certainly the ideals it set itself to pursue in
1946 are no less relevant in our present world. The question is: should our programming and budgeting method  still remain catalytic? When we talk of urgent expectations’ of LDCs, African Member States and women, what  do we mean, and how best can we reply to those urgent expectations?
176 Mr President, taking my own country as an example, our urgent expectations are reflected in a number  of concrete demands, which in turn need concrete responses. As an illustration, the following are some of the  pressing challenges that Malawi faces as a nation: in basic education, to reach a net enrolment ratio of at least
75 per cent at the primary-school level by the year 1995; and to train a target of 2 million adult illiterates out of  about 3.6 million by the same year. This is only basic education. Secondary, technical and higher education  have also their own needs including, inter alia, expanded intake as well as qualitative improvements,
17.7 Inthe field of science, our urgent expectations are equally enormous, and include the need to set up an  effective research management system and to enhance appropriate production and processing techniques that  would promote rural development. In Malawi, about 90 per cent of the population is rural-based, with about
85 per cent of the total depending on agriculture. This is no doubt a situation shared by other African countries,  as well as LDCs in other regions. The question therefore is: do UNESCO's programme and budget, and indeed  the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995), address the majority populations of these countries?
17.8 I could continue to list our urgent expectations in the other sectors of culture, communication and  information, women and youth, but probably - given the limited amount of time allocated to me - this is not the  best way of proceeding. What our plenary needs to reflect on is: as far as these needs and expectations are  concerned, does UNESCO make itself felt at the country level?
17.9 Mr President, in document 26 C/5 Rev. 1 (Annex), the Director-General has requested the General  Conference to appropriate a budget of $429,813,000 for the 1992-1993 budget period. A figure of $240,185,100  has been provided as staff costs. That leaves roughly a figure of $190 million to be split among the remaining  numerous activities.
17.10 Mr President, I mention the above figures not merely for the sake of mathematics, but in support of  one observation made by our Executive Board, at its 136th session, where it considered’ ... that programme  concentration should be vigorously pursued in order to enhance the positive impact of UNESCO's action’.
17.11 Mr President, it is the feeling of my delegation, and probably this is a feeling shared by the subregion  to which Malawi belongs, that the time has come for our Organization to structure itself in such a way that it is
406   able to respond quickly, and with less uncertainty, to the urgent needs of its Member States, especially the least  developed among them. It is true that UNESCO should not be turned into a fund and that certainly cannot be a  recommendation of my delegation. But it is indisputable that there would be no disruption of the Organization's  ideals if it began to adapt its action to local circumstances. As was pointed out in the in-depth study on  decentralization carried out by four eminent persons of our Executive Board: Faced with the major world  challenges which fall within its spheres of competence (illiteracy, for example), UNESCO has a vision and  strategy but its action in the field should be adapted to local circumstances. Programming in which Member  States, National Commissions, and Regional Offices actively participate, from its initial phases onwards,  enables the priorities of the different regions to be taken into account, priorities which the Secretariat and  governing bodies of the Organization are then responsible for incorporating in the programme in a methodical  manner”.
17.12 Mr President, the above quotation raises a very fundamental question, which is the second subject of  my statement, namely, the involvement of Member States in the programming and budgeting of UNESCO.  Indeed, if we are to seriously taik of decentralization in our Organization, we cannot exclude the very Member  States on whose goodwill we depend for our survival.
17.13 Itis true that before any biennial budget is brought out, the Director-General does send out inquiries to  various concerned parties such as non-governmental organizations, other United Nations agencies, eminent  individuals and Member States, after which all their views are moulded into one whole, which becomes our  programme and budget. As a General Conference, the supreme organ of our Organization, we must ask  ourselves: is this really the best approach? Does it not plaster too much over those peculiarities which ought to  be recognized? Yes, synergy of action is very crucial to an organization like UNESCO; but this should not be to  an extent that produces statements like, UNESCO just talks, but does not act’.
17.14 At this point, Mr President, allow me to comment specifically on certain programme areas, beginning  with the ‘Priority: Africa’ programme. It is the feeling of my delegation that this programme is not fully  reflected in document 26 C/5. Programme V1.2, under which it is supposed to be covered, does not seem to  offer much. We feel statements like: "Technical assistance to Member States in their negotiations with sources  of financing’ do injustice to the expectations raised by a programme of this nature. What a programme of this  nature should have done, we feel, is to first of all identify areas of real need, say institutional capacity, then set  out in concrete terms strategies that would allow our Organization to address those shortfalls.
17.15 Concerning education for all, my delegation feels that Programme 1.1 has overstressed catalytic action  such as the setting up of networks, the formulation or reformulation of strategies, and so on. The need as  perceived by my country is, inter alia, to train more literacy instructors and more primary-school teachers, and  to provide reading material. It is therefore somehow disillusioning to see that the much-needed funds are being  earmarked for action which will not carry much impact. The Jomtien Conference has already been followed by  much discussing and planning: what we want to see now is action to benefit the men, women and children in  whose name we have been talking.
17.16 Let me now turn, Mr President, to science and technology for development. We are pleased to note that  under Programme [I.1, human resources development has received considerable emphasis. It is in programmes  of this nature, we feel, that clear signals should be given to Member States, especially the LDCs, on how to co-  operate with the Organization. We want to suggest that, in the future, the C/5 document, instead of making  general statements like ‘training about 500 faculty staff and technicians’, should clearly indicate the beneficiary  countries or subregional groupings, together with the nature of the training and its type - long term, short term,  or seminars. Let us be aware that general statements can always be misinterpreted and lead to requests being  presented to the Secretariat which remain without response.
17.17 Mr President, the World Decade for Cultural Development is a very important programme which has  generated a lot of interest in Member States, especially in so far as the relationship between culture and  development is concerned. Provisions have been made under Major Programme Area III and Programme VI.1.  We would wish to see more research, which should be contracted to Member States. We would also wish to see  greater emphasis on the aspect of training in the design and management of cultural projects.
17.18 Mr President, my comments on the subject of strengthening communication capacities in developing  countries centre on commendation of the concrete contribution of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC), whose activities are provided for under Subprogramme IV.2.1.
11   I would further wish to express my country’s appreciation to all governments and agencies that have contributed  to the activities of IPDC. Let me assure this assembly that it is concrete activities such as those carried out by  IPDC that make UNESCO's work clearly discernible to the citizens of our Member States.
17.19 Mr President, there are many other programme actions that I could have singled out as being of  significance to both my country and the international community, such as those dealing with women, youth and  the environment. It is only for the sake of avoiding repetition of the main issues that I have not done so. What 1  have specifically drawn the attention of this Conference to, first and foremost, is that UNESCO, our  Organization, should endeavour to enhance its impact in its Member States. It should not be satisfied with  playing the back-up role to sister United Nations agencies. We may feel that this is what its mission dictates.  But in so doing, we are reducing the impact and role of our own Organization, which, Mr President, are of  great importance.
17.20 Secondly, Mr President, it is my appeal to our Conference seriously to consider the issue of  decentralization as addressed by the in-depth study carried out by our Executive Board. As mentioned by the  four eminent members of the Board in their report: "UNESCO is ... an organization of universal calling that  fulfils an ethical mission and promotes international intellectual co-operation. But' - and I myself think this is  the core of the matter - 'that calling and that mission are significant and open to advancement only when they  are in contact with the final participants of UNESCO's activity - the peoples of the various nations, that is the  individuals and citizens of all parts of the world ...".
17.21 Thank you for your attention.
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Malawi, and I now give the floor to Dr Seyyid Abdulai, Director-  General of the OPEC Fund for International Development.
19.1 Mr ABDULAI (OPEC Fund for International Development):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am  honoured to address this Conference at a time when its deliberations, and the programme and issues it is  considering, are of particular importance to the world community, and to the cause of development. For some  time, we have been aware of an evolution in thinking on development matters that has returned the mission of  this Organization to its rightful place at the forefront of the international agenda. Recognition of the vital roles  of education, science and information exchanges in the development process has lately found expression in a  number of programme statements, including the report of the South Commission. I am heartened by the  growing acceptance of a view of development priorities long advocated by the OPEC Fund.
19.2 It may seem strange that UNESCO's mandate, and the part played in development by all forms of  intellectual advancement, should ever have been called into question. Perhaps this resulted from an unfortunate  period of confrontation, perhaps also from excessive concentration on the economic dimension of development.  Of late, perceptions have been altered by the rapid spread of new technologies that have increased the  knowledge base required for competitiveness even in traditional industries. The influence of intellectual  development on economic efficiency is better understood.
19.3 Mr President, it would, of course, be wrong to view such things as education and literacy, scientific  research, communication or the nurturing of cultures only in economic terms. All are goals in their own right,  for development concerns the unfolding of human potential, and economic growth is merely a means to this -  end. Yet it is noteworthy that today, immaterial values are increasingly seen as determinants of economic  performance. For instance, links have been established between levels of educational provision, productivity  growth and rates of economic expansion. A stress on human development, such as is found in the lending  programme of my own institution, the OPEC Fund, does not conflict with economic priorities, it supports them.
19.4 Indeed, one reason for the recent reassessment of the role of human development has been the search  for credible explanations of the marked divergences in the performance of national and regional economies. In  particular, the low (and in many cases, negative) average real per capita growth rates of the least developed  countries and of sub-Saharan Africa over the past decade have given rise for concern. The OPEC Fund, which  weights its operations heavily in favour of low-income countries, naturally shares this concern, and attaches  great importance to analysis of the underlying problems involved. It is evident that unless the obstacles to the
408   recovery of these economies are properly understood, neither domestic policies nor external assistance will be  well directed.
19.5 We are all aware that shifts in global economic conditions, such as movements in interest rates or the  terms of trade, have often blown developing economies off course. Yet, since the external economic  environment has been unhelpful to the majority of developing countries, it does not explain why the disparities  between the regions - and within given regions - should have been so large. Some countries have adapted to the  difficult international economic climate, others have spiralled ever deeper into decline and debt. Some have  achieved advances in agricultural productivity, others have not. Some have created strong linkages between the  agricultural and industrial sectors, others have failed to do so. A majority of low-income countries remain  dependent on exports of primary commodities, but a significant minority have diversified into services and  manufacturing.
196 The causes of these disparities must surely be sought in policies and in structural weaknesses of  national and regional economies. Here, it is natural to bear in mind the geographical handicaps faced by almost  all the least developed countries. And yet there are examples of small, land-locked or island economies that  have achieved success. Neither does the absence of significant natural resources in many of the least developed  countries appear to account for their problems - the same applies to some of the richest countries.
19.7 It would appear, then, that the diagnosis must be narrowed to human factors. If there is a common  element underlying the difficulties of the least developed countries, it must probably be sought in institutional  weakness and the related issues of underdevelopment of human resources. This conclusion has now apparently  been reached by large sections of the development community - a trend we find gratifying, in view of the OPEC  Fund's longstanding commitment to human development.
198 Mr President, in emphasizing the role of human resources, it is not my intention to deny the  importance of sound economic management. It is generally accepted that countries have performed better when  they have striven (0 maintain macro-economic stability, avoided price distortions, and shunned excessive state  mtervention. Many governments have accepted that they must do likewise, and embarked on structural  adjustment programmes. These are intended to create a suitable climate for private enterprise, which is to serve  as the motor of recovery.
199 It 1s precisely the experience of adjustment that has increased awareness of the importance of human  resources. Such programmes have not automatically led to recovery, because private enterprise has often been  unable to grasp the opportunities they were intended to provide. A stable macro-economic environment is a  necessary but not a sufficient condition for private sector growth. Equally crucial are stable and 'market-  friendly’ legal and institutional frameworks. An enabling environment for entrepreneurs must also include  adequate services, and access to scientific, technological and commercial information, consultancy and credit.  In this connection, 1 note that UNESCO's efforts towards strengthening national communications and  information capabilities have already done much to enhance information flows, and should be further  expanded.
19.10 It is now generally accepted that the process of reform will depend upon institution-building. It will  also depend on the strengthening of infrastructure - notably, in the areas of transportation and  telecommunications. It will depend on the development of efficient support systems for agriculture, industry  and commerce, particularly in terms of extension services capable of reaching small- and medium-size  enterprises. To be sustainable, a supportive environment for private enterprise requires large numbers of  qualified staff. In all these areas, UNESCO has shown that it can make significant direct or indirect  contributions to progress. Needless to say, entrepreneurs must themselves possess the necessary knowledge and  skills, and they must be in a position to hire and develop suitable staff. At the very minimum, literacy is  essential, for without it access to all forms of information is severely limited. The importance of UNESCO's  role as the lead agency in the battle against illiteracy can scarcely be overemphasized. Universal basic education  is an overriding priority, and in doubling its allocation to education, UNESCO has set an example others would  do well to follow.
19.11 Mr President, the resources required to achieve universal education are massive. At last year's Jomtien  Conference, we learned that a total of about US $50 billion would be required to ensure that every child attends  a primary school by the year 2000. Redirecting resources from secondary, technical or higher education would  merely increase dependence on foreign expertise, so it is additional money that must be found. At the same
11   time, the quality of education needs improvement in many developing countries, where teaching materials and  teacher training have often been neglected. Education cannot exist in a vacuum. Too often, inappropriate  curricula, inherited from colonial days, promote dependence and obstruct the integration of pupils and students  in the economy. UNESCO's call for the assignment of higher priority to technical and vocational education is  therefore surely justified.
19.12 Given that the quality of the labour force will be a major determinant of the attractiveness of  investment, other aspects of human resources must be targeted. The productivity of schools, farms and factories  will hardly benefit from hunger and sickness, which in turn arise from poverty. Poverty is often associated with  the existence of underprivilege among specific sections of a community - especially women and given racial or  cultural groups. The range of policies required to mobilize human resources thus encompasses health, welfare,  anti-poverty and affirmative action programmes. Educational inputs are known to enhance the effectiveness of  such programmes.
19.13 Experience teaches that economic reforms will come to nothing unless they are accompanied by an  opening of markets to international competition. This imposes still greater pressures on local business  communities, and on the environments in which they operate. Entry to, and survival in world markets, is  becoming increasingly difficult. For instance, new technologies, resulting in the saving or substitution of  materials, energy and labour, have eroded the comparative advantages enjoyed by developing countries and the  markets for their products, to the extent that some operations are being relocated in the North. As technology,  know-how, information and communication increase in importance, relative to labour and materials’ costs, so  the marginalization of technologically backward countries accelerates. Technology transfers through such  mechanisms as joint ventures are part of the answer - but the selection of appropriate technologies, and the  negotiation of their transfer, themselves demand a degree of scientific and technological capacity. Technologies  must be sustainable, and this means that they should not place undue pressure on the natural resources and  ecosystems held in trust for future generations. The scientific base must therefore include a capacity for  evaluation of environmental issues. In this regard, the contribution made by UNESCO, through its programmes  in support of science for progress and the environment’, is recognized and valued.
19.14 Scientific and technical capacity, where it exists at all, will be ineffective if it is confined to tiny élites,  as knowledge will not be applied. Research into areas such as agriculture and small and medium enterprises  has shown that the successful application of improved technologies is closely related to overall educational  standards. All this being so, it appears that some governments and development agencies may wish to reorder  their priorities. The proportion of national income devoted to human resources in developing countries is  generally somewhat less than in the industrialized world, and in many cases it has fallen sharply as a result of  adjustment programmes. Numerous governments spend less on education and health together than they do on  their armed forces. As for science, technology and information, these are poor relations in all but a few  developing countries. More than anyone, low-income countries need to invest in their future, and this means  their human resources. By assisting in the formulation of ideas and strategies, UNESCO can further awareness  of this dimension of development.
19.15 Mr President, however great the relative priority assigned to human development, it is absolute inputs  that determine the results. Particularly in science and technology, a certain ‘critical mass’, in terms of quality as  well as quantity, has to be reached for benefits to accrue. In view of the scarce intellectual and material  resources available to low-income countries, especially the smaller ones, co-operation at regional and  international level is essential. Again, UNESCO has a vital part to play in such efforts.
19.16 However much they collaborate, without assistance low-income countries are unlikely to generate  sufficient resources to build educational systems, let alone a scientific and technological base, equal to the  demands of the twenty-first century. Development assistance will continue to be vital, and here, too, priorities  need to be rethought. For instance, if less than 5 per cent of international aid flows are directed towards  primary education, as occurred during the first half of the 1980s, insufficient progress will be made.
19.17 Perhaps it is the cultural aspects of UNESCO's activities that are hardest to justify to those who pride  themselves on 'hard-headed' pragmatism. At national levels, these budgets are often among the first to fall  victim to spending cuts. The South Commission has ably reminded us of the wider implications of protecting  and furthering indigenous cultures. To do so is to foster self-confidence and self-reliance, and to combat  harmful dependence. Where local value systems break down, the cohesion and productive capacity of whole  societies are easily shattered, leading to apathy and an imitation of alien life-styles that furthers non-productive
410   economic activity. Conversely, we have seen that the retention of identity and dignity enables societies to  assimilate positive aspects of foreign cultures without sacrificing their own creativity. I therefore welcome the  treatment of culture as a major programme area.
19.18 Let us hope, then, that the full range of UNESCO's activities will receive the firm support of this  General Conference. The Executive Board has rightly concluded that, for the impetus of these activities to be  maintained, and support to be forthcoming, resources must be seen to be well used. The emphasis on efficiency  and accountability in the presentation of the draft programme and budget is therefore commendable. We also  welcome the efforts towards close co-ordination with other United Nations organizations. Such co-operation  can only benefit from the establishment of clear priorities and roles throughout the United Nations system. We,  for our part, look forward to further fruitful co-operation with UNESCO in its many vital tasks, and to the  vigorous prosecution of every area of its programmes. Thank you for your attention.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General of the OPEC Fund for International Development. Qur next speaker is  H.E. Mr Tae-Hyuk Hahm, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO and head of the delegation of the Republic of  Korea.
21.1 Mr HAHM (Republic of Korea):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, 1 would like to congratulate you, Mr Ogot, on  your election to the presidency of the General Conference. Taking this opportunity, I also wish to extend a  warm welcome to our new Member States - Tuvalu and the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.  We look forward to future co-operation in UNESCO activities with these new Member States.
21.2 Mr President, we are all watching with fascination the political changes now occurring in Eastern  Europe. What we are witnessing now are economic difficulties and political turmoil, sometimes accompanied  by ethnic schism and even strife. But what I see underneath the pain of the new birth is the movement and  vibration of people discovering the right to speak out what they wanted to say all along and the right to take  risks to improve their own lives. I see the signs of a new dawn through the present chaos. The mass of  humanity will benefit from this change. The easing of tension between East and West will gradually release  national resources at present devoted to the arms race. The national budget reallocation may be, at the initial  stage, directed at long neglected domestic areas such as the production of consumer goods in East European  countries, and education and health needs in Western Europe, but I foresee that some portion of the budget  reallocation will at a later stage be directed towards reducing illiteracy and upgrading the standard of living of  the developing countries.
21.3 As the collective security arrangements of the United Nations are strengthened by East-West co-  operation and a period of peace succeeds to the period of insecurity, attention will be again drawn to the value  of education, science, culture and communication. UNESCO should be thoroughly prepared for the day when it  begins once again to play a fundamental role in shaping human destiny. Hence, the need for and the  importance of the reform process now going on within UNESCO. The reform process has been with us for the  past seven years. Even though there are still many areas in which further reforms should be made, I am now  under the impression that the process is finally taking root. Within the Secretariat, the reinstallation of the  young recruits programme, certain structural changes, the reduction of redundant staff, the readjustment of  field units to bring about better decentralization, and finally the vigorous efforts to eliminate waste are some of  the noteworthy improvements.
21.4 Regarding decentralization, my delegation is of the view that the activities of National Commissions  should be supported to the fullest extent possible by UNESCO, because this will lead to substantive  decentralization.
21.5 Regarding the Executive Board, Japan initiated and now many countries support and propose that the  Board be composed of Member States and that representatives of the Member States should be carefully chosen  with due regard paid to their quality and their terms of service. The Government of the Republic of Korea  supports this proposal. However, my delegation feels that a mere change of character in regard to its  composition will not improve the work of the Executive Board. We believe it is important that the  representatives appointed by the governments stay in the job for the full period of the mandate, so that they may  perform their duties with knowledge of what is going on inside and outside UNESCO. There is also room for
11   improving the work of the Executive Board by establishing a small group of experts on financial and  administrative matters. My delegation believes that this group should be regionally balanced and that it should  be a subsidiary body to the Executive Board.
21.6 Finally, in order for UNESCO to exercise intellectual leadership, it should also be able to convene  regularly intellectual forums with the participation of world-renowned experts on subjects of great consequence  to mankind in the coming decades. In this context both the German and the French proposals deserve our  particular attention. My delegation will positively co-operate to ensure that good results come out of discussion  on this matter.
21.7 On the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, my delegation agrees that the contents of the  recommendations of the Executive Board as they appear in 26 C/6, and expresses its wishes that programme  concentration should be further pursued. It is in favour of an increased budget ceiling because the rise is  principally due to cost increases and currency fluctuation.
21.8 Mr President, combating illiteracy has been for some years one of the prime objectives of UNESCO in  the field of education. My delegation considers that this is a worthy objective to which we must devote  substantially greater efforts and investments than hitherto. I believe that the magnitude of the problem is such  that UNESCO alone cannot attain the objective set. It was therefore well advised that the World Conference on  Education for All in Jomtien involved other United Nations agencies such as the World Bank, UNDP and  UNICEF in order to combat illiteracy together with UNESCO. National determination to assign priority to  investment in basic education, together with effective external financial aid, will go a long way to solving the  problem.
219 The Republic of Korea contributed to setting up the King Sejong Prize two years ago to encourage  those who are actively engaged in combating illiteracy. I am now happy to report to you that UNESCO has  awarded this prize to two outstanding institutions that have dedicated themselves to combating illiteracy and  promoting adult education in Asia and Africa. I am also pleased to say that the Korean Government continues  to support, with an additional US $100,000, the regional programme of educational innovation through the  APEID network.
21.10 In regard to science, my delegation would like to express its satisfaction and gratitude for the excellent  work being done by IOC, MAA and IHP. We feel that their achievements in these fields should be rewarded  with the augmentation of their budgets in order to encourage their work.
21.11 In spite of repeated warnings by environmental scientists, our mother nature continues to suffer from  air and water pollution. Toxic wastes, deforestation and the greenhouse effects are now jeopardizing human  existence on this planet. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development to be held in Brazil  next year will be, in this context, timely and very important for all concerned. My country will join in the  concerted global efforts for sustainable development through the maintenance of healthy and livable  environments.
21.12 Mr President, with regard to cultural programmes, we would like to reaffirm our full support for action  programmes to achieve the four main objectives of the World Decade for Cultural Development. We continue  to attach particular importance to the preservation of the cultural heritage and cultural co-operation, We believe  cultural co-operation is very important in combating ignorance, intolerance and prejudice, which are the main  seeds of mistrust, hatred, and even war between peoples of different cultures.
21.13 In this connection, my delegation feels happy that UNESCO's Silk Road project has been successfully  carried out, contributing to the promotion of dialogue through intercultural contacts. As one of the countries  actively participating in the project, we are pleased to screen during this General Conference a documentary  produced by MBC, a Korean television broadcasting network.
21.14 Regarding the communication programme, the Korean Government continues to emphasize the  strengthening of the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). As our  contribution to IPDC, and in the spirit of technical co-operation among developing countries, the Republic of  Korea has over the past seven years trained some 150 broadcasting media personnel and technicians to enhance  the communication capability of some 86 developing countries.
21.15 Today, countries and people without proper access to information are severely handicapped in relation  to those which have ready access to them. In this sense, it is pertinent that UNESCO should propagate  computer science to the developing countries. Realizing the importance of the access to information for  developing countries, my country has, up to this year, contributed US $600,000 to foster the success of the  UNESCO informatics programme for the benefit of developing countries.
21.16 Lastly, Mr President, the recent rapid and radical changes in international relations have proved that  ideological conflicts and artificial barriers between nations and peoples are detrimental not only to human  development, but also to world peace. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to reaffirm UNESCO's  Constitution that peace must be constructed in the minds of men and that we Member States should join  together to make the world a peaceful global village based on such universal values as democracy and human  rights. Thank you very much.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea and I now give the floor to  H.E. Mr Mohamed Ghassan Al-Halabi, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab  Republic.  (Leo sead) Lu jall Lp spall) oalall aul EL)  Aolad) Lat eloped) al giniinll Gudal) gusty sed) plat soul) sed) pled l Sa33d) Gud, asad]  Gl) GA ey Jin Bosal Lat, 2G Sle Uagall SAN asl peal ly Laid) JS «untill aaa]  Tilia Ge pie ci pe Le JSy Lis Gunnin pL pops le ay 53] Vin a 05S, LAL LL ASY 41 all  ral Ill LWP UN [FIT PUNE CI SUNT OSSI PPC WNT ITVS SUE IN  JAI fas I eos …aJ I oad sult Os BL Gopal cls) sag AIT IRIS (ul A aunt dl sad] YY, Y  wad SYlaal U1 doa (A pla PUS Ga ade Shad Le cn cogadh or Juladl pte! Gaia is Tage  pall nl Gl Jabal) ALAIN susan ga pi Jp dl ons suas M1 lod) Spa ding pate Lyssa  poll ple cd je AT Targa I JLT adn Ga pid) ley J gd PUS Gad! ats AS Aya l hy Tue La  Lolall wl jshal) OSI Gall) of Wall 555301 530, cooled 5a] Ga ste Logis [Kay dyad) La 5Ÿl edly Li  lal 536 Sabet Lda! elidel) sass plies (1 Gaskell sar oF GLE gu Gall La JS uals Saas
25 Loa Jia, Flas sled al] Lola) Gadall Lian PAIN de GA 5 ous ps sls) JI 555  lat all Wald) Lansdly of ,30U slid! Gian y a pa] pad  oo LI 5 Sue TOAST sat WSU Joba 3533 51 adi psd) SIT of gusindl saad] VEN  Vlas Ludisdd posais Sas gS] ley SUL Jilly pus) pale VASE SI AIG gg eal]  land) a piel 555 Eole Ja Gasdiadly oladl Gua II JEST Guiad 6 Vid Llp) pes of Lalita)
235 Leads papi bas Ÿ La any Lal) plabdly Taclial) Glob) oo wlistd) UV lai sa alas,  eC Lipalgi als Lo OF 1 503 Legal LA) ilps Sila Glas le gall) paid] wi Listes <li)!  anil pled MAIL FUSSIl Ge Saadly GS] Ge 35m shui on LY) AIS Lae LSE dala  aly ashsall Sud Sud 5,001 slay Ghaagill Glas g Lusty a yl 5501 Talay TA ld pe Lagh Ail pdf Tass] Lea als5 5e aa V 0e yt TLV ad) pass suleadd¥) pail 5 IS 00, YY
11   Of old) Godal Ald) GAYS JHE Gray clale pans 5i Ge AST dia pled) Jos DST sil pu dl ad] YY, 0  Talo Lad 135 ltd) Vin Guiad Jai oa dad! le pet pdf ens aby plead] Jb Gall paid JS  ein Ll Subs) Si pl Talisl le Zagokdl MAIS VAAY-VAAY lad Lolsadly als pi poy odie  Pla VAAT-VARY ald Tsially malin) gage oF La Lal alld gay daa Lode Goad, (adsl  Last La 0040-8. BST TIS JS Tassie Ladd db Lele) 5085300 LS y Jalil lst Gols  SIGN 355mm pag | Uni y Tuc Il gal ud) sae pb pall] SAISIT edf 32855 4 SEA pais!  lad) aiaady Lslabinady lead J3¥) olaldl balls] Us RÉNALE SSI VICIEN IE SRPUCRUS SN EA] lab Cas     BAL Galil gralisal) Glad p Lush plasaly ads LS poked ly Lay yadl i Lud $Y 05859 Lind ly paid) Laud  Lili classe Lady AI glad AIT 590) Gans Ge FEU Gi pans Alay abd! BGT SI Tala 34d  Waite GAH le aa lea pal] 3505 slae) 5 fsnate Lighuof y Losis Lasts  dus sasat ll Tall aay Lod y Us Là Lhe Tes AIN MAY 157 a a Bi 5,58 cad pf id cud pd] aad] YY,
1321 AI Lg pall sland) le ais land ly att] Lobos) Adal) Load Lines of S30 oF baa  [puis 5 hais LAS Ga dir La 320 à pealally Ula GUESS Walaa] Gains pas Li pame ob ay ce lacs  Jaadl Lidl addy Glide y pladl hintaan Mans U Cassis Juste GUT Goins] lesa  ob om SS Sy all Banas Leola] Lalu) HLL G6 Lg A1 Glad) wlsSa as 535,60 Ladd  plod) sll pdasll AI Lalaed) Uap asd Ce LES aad LU) Cad] Guia Lae J) LS LAS  di Fra] Le SOUS BIST eS) 135 Jledf pada) JI sll IT ASIN as 53 Ge 7V0 Lan 555 idl
(23.1) Mr AL-HALABI (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, it  gives me the greatest pleasure, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of this  Conference and on the unqualified confidence which the participants have placed in you. Your established  reputation for sound judgement and your long experience give us the highest assurance that under your leadership  the Conference will achieve brilliant results in the service of world peace and the well-being of all the peoples of  the world.
(23.2) Mr President, the international détente that has followed the end of the Cold War between the two  superpowers has given rise to high hopes that a just peace among the nations may be established. In fact, great  progress has recently been made towards removing the risk of the outbreak of a devastating nuclear war, and a  constructive dialogue among States with different social and political systems is taking place in a climate of  mutual tolerance. However, despite these high hopes, a number of conflicts and trouble spots, both latent and  manifest, continue to threaten the peace. On the other hand, some current developments have shown promising  signs of changed attitudes that could pave the way for a new order in international relations that goes beyond the  elimination of war to the establishment of a peace that is accompanied by constructive and creative measures to  protect the human rights of all men and women, guarantee the right of every people to self-determination and  secure individual well-being and comprehensive social development.
(23.3) Mr President, if we want a durable peace, action must be taken to lift the yoke of injustice which, in its  more severe forms, condemns the majority of the people of the world to a life of misery, humiliation and  suffering. By virtue of its mandate and considering the nature of its fields of competence, UNESCO is bound to  play an active role in the transition to the twenty-first century and in the effort to put relations between the  industrial and the developing countries on a firmer footing of greater equity and solidarity in action. We reject  that concept of development which gives the satisfaction of the need for material growth priority over all the other  aspects of progress. Experience has shown that we are still confronted with many severe problems: these include  the prevalence of illiteracy among vast numbers of the world's population; the lack of access to education and  knowledge; cultural, scientific and technological dependence; growing marginalization and exclusion; and the  mismanagement of resources and the environment.
(23.4) Economic growth and infrastructural support are necessary but insufficient conditions for national  development, for development is not an automatic process. It cannot be accomplished without the combined  efforts of all men and women, If this is not forthcoming, the victims of poverty and disease will increase in  numbers as demographic growth rates continue to rise unhindered in those same countries which suffer most from  illiteracy. The circumstances of these countries make it impossible for them to provide their populations with  adequate nutrition, health and education, to mention only three basic needs. Development, therefore, must be  viewed from a new perspective. The current crisis in development theory prompts us to look into the relationships  between world economic trends and the values and behaviour of individuals. The apprehension felt in both the  developing and the industrial countries concerning their future is due not only to the economic situation but also  to moral and cultural factors. Consequently, our Organization must take a fresh and more thoroughly considered  look at devetopinent in the 1990s.
(23.5) Mr President, for over 40 years now the countries of the world have supported the proposition,  enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that ‘Everyone has the right to education’. This principle  has also motivated UNESCO's continuing efforts. We have examined the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-
1993 and the proposals it contains for amending UNESCO's structures in the interest of greater efficiency. We  submitted replies to those proposals at the appropriate time. We are satisfied, however, that the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1992-1993 conforms to the general framework and main lines of emphasis of the third Medium-  Term Plan for 1990-1995 and progress has been made in programme concentration and in the marked reduction in  the number of subprogrammes and programme activities. Progress has also been made in the following fields: the  promotion of co-operation among the developing countries, the proposal of activities to satisfy the needs and  aspirations of the least developed countries, the application of science to the causes of progress and the  environment and the designation of priorities in education and information We also note with interest the  expansion of the programme concerning women and the priority given to the national and world cultural beritage.  Finally, even though there are a number of points which need to be considered more closely, we note that there  has been an improvement in the preparation and in format of General Conference documents. All this is most  reassuring for the future.
(23.6) Mr President, great importance has been given to education in my country since the Revolution of
8 March 1963 and especially since the corrective movement led by the President of the Republic, H.E. Mr Hafez  Al-Assad. Convinced that education plays a key role in comprehensive development, the President has devoted  special attention to education and educators. I shall not go into the details of our experience and innovations in  education; suffice it to say that our system is firmly grounded in the Arab heritage, is humanitarian in content and  outlook and is open to interaction with educational experiences in the rest of the world. Our system seeks to reach  its objectives by steering a sound course between tradition and modernity, selecting the constructive elements of  our heritage while making the constant changes that are needed to keep our sights firmly fixed on the future and  the scientific innovations and applications which the future may bring. We have also made sure that the various  components of the education process are developed within the framework of a long-term education policy, whose  principal features may be summed up as follows: to channel 40 per cent of intermediate school-leavers to the  general and technical branches of secondary school and 75 per cent of secondary school-leavers to higher  education. The decision to allocate the necessary resources needed for implementing this policy was taken at high  government level. The following distribution of the school population was projected for 1995/1996 (the target  year of the plan): 30 per cent of all students would be channelled to general secondary schools, 10 per cent to  technical secondary schools and 60 per cent to vocational schools. These data indicate a basic change of  orientation in the education system, linking it more closely with economic and social development plans.
(23.7) Mir President, for some time now the Arab world has been confronted with a serious challenge that still  poses a clear and present danger to its vital interests. I refer to the Zionist invasion and colonial settlement of  Palestine, which have taken on a manifestly racist and aggressive form. The result has been the usurpation of a  homeland, the uprooting of a people and the implanting of settlements on their land and terrorist practices that  border on genocide. Settlements on Palestinian Arab soil continue to be established at a frantic pace, as though in  a race to defeat the peace efforts of the whole world. The Arabs have accepted the peace initiative made by the  United States and the Great Powers, by which they were invited to attend an international conference for a peace  in the Middle East based, jnter alia, on Resolutions 242 and 238, which prescribe total Israeli withdrawal from  the occupied Arab territories. In an interview with the American ABC television network, President Hafez Al-  Assad made the following statement: ‘Efforts are being made to find a comprehensive solution, and a  comprehensive solution must not leave any part of the problem unsolved; if any part of the problem is left  unsolved, there will never be a stable peace in the region. We Arabs have always sought after peace and we shall,  irrespective of circumstances and at all times, continue to do so’. He also added, 'As we see it, land and peace are  two sides of the same coin - the loss of the one entails the automatic loss of the other’.
(23.8) The planned objective of the Tel-Aviv Government's new settlement campaign is to bring about a  radical demographic change in these territories by emptying them of their legitimate Arab inhabitants. This policy  violates the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the principles of the United Nations Charter and a number of  international agreements, especially the fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, which protects the rights of the  populations of occupied territories. Another aim of this settlement policy is to change the characteristics of the  occupied territories by destroying the cultural identity of their original inhabitants and removing all vestiges of  their cultural heritage and civilization. This stands in flagrant violation of the UNESCO Constitution. We appeal  to the world from this international forum not to aid and abet the Government of Tel-Aviv in its pursuit of these  objectives and to help the Palestinian Arab people to defend their homeland and to preserve their specific culture  and identity.
(23.9) In the devastating Gulf War, the world was prompted to stand up to an act of aggression and put a stop  to the occupation of one country by another. The United Nations and the peace-loving peoples of the world should  now take the same stand towards Israel and, just as they constrained Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait in compliance  with United Nations resolutions and the principles of international law, must now take the same stand towards  Israel and oblige it to withdraw from the occupied Arab territories.
(23.10) Mr President, the international détente, the movement towards a new world order and the deployment of  efforts to solve world problems and to defuse the trouble spots in the world strengthen our conviction that  UNESCO can play an important role in constructing the defences of peace in the minds of men. UNESCO, which  represents the living conscience of the world and its hopes for a just and permanent peace, is needed now more  than ever before. Mr President, 1 thank you for your attention.  The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic. Our next speaker is H.E. Mr Mahmoud  Darwich, Minister of Culture and head of the mission of Palestine.  : (ohaculs) Stage sad YON  pt LUG GA Le SIN Liga) pin Asia Ge Sgual I Baa pal oF ail out sh  Sissy LasY 5 Lis géeoly Loli pladily Vaspil ge quel of saul LS 5541 Tied bund, wast Legals  RCOPLPON| I INTC OR
50 SBYL G55 GLAS Viola IN cal 15] Bb ly line) | Gani pl oad lh aad) ges SIN pad! VON  pl ltl) Lala Lobel ly Lula] PAIE lian IY Galea Ga QU Anaad ay Lisa La0l 55 (ils  Sad sll Gi 5 pee (sod cell addy Load) 505 Ge Lil Ciadinsy Jia pad) yal Via Liles 7 las  Ore Las] | Gj gum olga; (fb HLS Ci Bas tale Lad AI Gj pee oii al lad] (ray 700 wl lads) Ce  Gl palais plle Go ind LAS pda of TUE Lille Goa pil Ga Le giuall Gea a,b dS put 0,8  OF ob pally (ppm sid] GALT Vin Gre PUIS pla) 35 LM 3 pent IS Lagos HUSH] Sy Lia gd pound SL ple  Labial) wlll) 5e ol alld Sssmall Gaia Jb Gla dla Baile paged sin pblu pang (595 Lib  hi aly Slash Gah (boils of ous tases aa ly lat) ga, Ga HAST ol asd (ad) AIM Lala  sin 55405 elite Us Walid) Sop) gauss load) VAS 0 Lud A) sealed) JAI ai Jay 31 all  JLa3l ily Lissl5 LiSà Lebygdl 11 EU ly PLV Jp Lasd) on GL gis) Slee 15055 Lill  ! Gydelie Gas oS LS ul Lisl  ra pasa) es half Gilad pulil) GAELAIS Jolge Ge wash) Glad SUIS pasa Ja Tiles p33 1a, YoY  GY 5450 on Leslaill pa 55 de ja le ali) dite le JUS La glass FUN a 3S, LA  ain oY caguall AIT pla) Ld dat A LS GT Gabel) pa WE, AY) pal glalll Ge Sale  GLasŸl Gia Lab iasll palin Jatt) Gialley Wiad pads Uasladl Ge say pais pd 5 patil] Talal]  oR Tp lis Ge Lady JS A ua ll 50,85 Gay  Lieu le La) Glan ÉLUS y ssl 0 als Ald] gull] pail] 3,05, on plawsdl pue 51 Yo 8  Taal pl Joplall posits ST (Ba A3 Ÿ 55000 Vie LS (le os AI Ua la sda of Tali cols,  Li ce send] a od) mle Lie la A TL paie) ly Lu pal) y Tay AIS aS al) opted) JS LAN  Slade bv) be JS GY 21555 sf pedal) saad Gas ge Aly Tadd] Lali J TAL Bal ob  Ge slam ly BAIN Liu lat od] cand ÉMIS aod] gatadly Seal Ge 65585 43 Lay Ras Ua ld  handy TEA Tange Las gs L585 Gun pS Lal) Loses) Jlawsaly Lmilisy Caadd) on Sig 354 50a  Sint Lol  esl eadl gy Gaal Log pare l'IP) OUI unit lil a LU lue 53 shui gs] 234 Leas 3 land RY st Yo,o  JS Lolas¥) LEGS Lad! Glad)y (Elis pl go ould!) hadi, Lali sauall LGY) Llua Lay
11   Y cuidle opm UGS a à pualalf Tobaleanlilh SLA réptille 0prge Lams 5h irhaedid| a AI of Yo, A  cain) 559 5Ÿl5 Lalas Gas Ulam Lis pé Go puni Laila AUS Los pp dl Shall Jb Bi 595 Ÿ LAS aloud i 50  rapelle EN psa pail] Spm ji as OÙ Gia Ge Ol Je La gb oral OU Tnadeal) SS)  Load raed of Laud Lia cas JIE IS pad] 5505 Gay Ulaad] 3 Brad Ge Sa, bd Gal Ba Lud  clistadd JE133 Ÿ ly pri] lad) plas La) GELS AIN SUN uy he apaadl Aled) plaid) Gud of on  ce GLAS Lay Tans) J) sland] Goa Baal Taka ARS Lu og ylasdly pbadl JU La puadl) J land) Ge Lud pull  bland ails Jal pl Jil Lal Glad] 13a hy count] pha lie old canal (le L153  pa 55lis5 JUL cada (ley alias sls (ley Blond! cont jai le copped] ge pif laall pass Si I  SLL] ol yliall Goel dy contd elaall ondadll pate ge Il ST  sia Ile ob paid «Dalia ial) J) af GG Ge Hi gl Ÿ atte] Sal) ol putin] sd] VOA  Sans pean ly SpdkaŸ ly pnd) le TAN Tua sd goad) asl] Sains 36 Là bia od nad) ai Lie  Giad LL, SHaë La gl5gl canny 33 coal) CSS 13 Gall le Gad G 980 ae Lelia le odd) Sa) AOL  + Hits Ll Gielii ay uid] nly] pribsiad] elas ob alld] (ELLE Les papialI La slay]  Fal a pas JS Laas I RAI LS ASIN 5S dun Spall alow iy odd] COTE SGA TL  rally Gas y JURA solani) QU SAN J) él SN AS Tid aid) gp 098 Ga AA  © 5355 plAOIly Gao Ge TI JLa¥ jail Tush Ula pi «andasd] AUS Jabs) dtd) JI  Lola AS, Trasdasd) Lali pes Ga CAS Le le pSus pdf SS80 30 Glad | Fin a Gauss YN.  cosiabl (lai sa 055 SMA La 5505 pret dae Ga quil Coa Glaad spall 5e 5 5AI Jind Led! allan  gi] lal) Cialis s50e oI Coal] Jusady od) bla! le sual Bhs Shaw GLby Way,  JS by eles Las Lusl 3800 48 Glalady pda Ula, rois puss wads 0201 WBF Sis aa cand  Ale Tals Tags pa Lil Ÿly Tplially Lam pd) Lipp Lian] a Tanai] Guail) SEE oly plamasly  i) Alls Lapp V5 Villas Lomas Vy lille Liikuol cad ay uid oll Spats WG ud Quai  RETEST RVC TUE DP OUN | SUN]  Oa cipal Lelia Sahl Gay wld) le 3nd] Gisia Ge fea As of GAS oF pant ll gaa Yo, NN  olus¥l Faia paalil Gilad! Hshill Luglia Ge Vpüisis oly rival JAI go) pe 15iSS of pd oF AY  Sal Gib oF Joa Gaal oF LS pally JHGAŸ) Ge paddy pau dl 5505 5 GAIN Gay Tab) ianlly  Lad dy cand PLAIT Gal ob Gland) Gand JS (Sally Lined) GE 5 Lad | JS Le  ad] Ga ABD Gall phd  Jou Tana ley Lyall Te, II gull Sle pull Ley pie Lise lil 55 00 Labite cilia al Y0,0Y  Us ya Ge USM JESSY Talia Lo gif of poles Sal gi Gtosad) i Lda ba) Go201 Cond Gay SAY)  Lisa LES Ge aad pa Lobadlly LL oy + Ll Gtolaidly pdd) Us pe (JI Uplal) Topaal) cosa  Ushanadi phil le pala ental Al GLY BGS LAGEI clas oath asl all, a,  hä3 My onl] on Slsall à Liss Labial Geadban pgs 3 ola cell dy sil  rand) ess pe Llaasily (pally Ulaadl le SUIS PALAIS A Lin tiaus Goasd] Lila a Lits is Yo, NT  i poled JMS Rae spall JS a LAS gay ols Lola kl iad] Gobel AVAST sas Lala)  Gh old] paid Jaan Lol clin Gay La 5loiŸ Lal) abled) J) ALES cal of Ra che, Go]  JSAS oF hai AIO pad) Ie EI 5,31 300 piges wath WGI uk ppigéns LUN JI pli  LESS IPS J Sv PASS J IPSS | PRS La es pd BELLA PRN SYR Gal If 5554 SUMO, |i SPENT  pdb Laban aad pd 131 kg) Gold) a dada pla V5 hg] Goad) a UMA I 33a35, pst] Jay  pala [Sy addy slay GS) pal AT dsall glia Jaad) lias Gall
(25.1) Mr DARWICH (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, I wish to join my voice to those who preceded me in congratulating you on your election  to the presidency of this Conference, which is a token of the high confidence which its members place in you.  I also wish to congratulate Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu on their accession to membership of UNESCO.
(25.2) Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, the passage of a whirlwind is traced by the  effects it leaves on nature and its inhabitants; it is still too early, however, to assess the positive and negative  impact of the whirlwind of change that is sweeping through this end-of-century world. The world is busy trying to  cut through the thick layers of pollution that have clouded nature, conscience and speech in order to get a clear  view of the picture which is taking shape in the midst of a succession of exploding bombshells. That picture is  being imposed on a world that has had no part in its construction, and is the result of a historical process over  which it had never exercised full control. Geared for a Third World War which did not happen, that process has  left us with a world that, supposedly, is free of ideology and ideas. Whatever form the picture that emerges from  this unlikely union of order and anarchy takes, we can be certain that the place reserved for us in its southern  Hemisphere will be a gloomy one indeed. This is because one of the contradictions that characterizes the  whirlwind of change taking place before our very eyes is that several streams of human history are moving  dynamically in the same real time but with no real synergy. The fact is that while the contemporary world is fast  turning into one global village, the developmental gap between its various inhabitants, measured as the distance  between two particles speeding in opposite directions, is growing wider every day. The closer communication  draws us together, the more we discover how far apart we really are!
(25.3) In this way, the solutions we bring to the contradictions of the present generate new factors to fuel the  contradictions of the future. The South, which has no part in drawing up the crucial questions which the North  poses in terms that suit its own future well-being, is powerless to repair the disjunction between the two historical  processes; in fact it cannot even keep up with the pace at which the questions are being asked. The South is also  wary of the historical role it has been assigned by the new world order, because this triumphant liberal order has  not yet shown signs of those humanitarian and universalist qualities which would make it the champion of  democracy, human rights and the right to self-determination everywhere.
(25.4) The fact that the pace of material progress in the world is out of step with the level of spiritual and  humanitarian maturity leaves the field wide open for the exercise of hegemony and despotism. This is especially  true because the end-of-century whirlwind has not yet produced any clear solution to the South's cumulative list of  problems, such as poverty, illiteracy, indebtedness and racism, which affect the lives of hundreds of millions of  people. Consequently, humanity is in greater need than ever before of a dynamic moral force and a point of  reference which the conscience of the international community can use to stem the negative potential of the  coming era. There is a great risk that arrogant force will be highly tempted to act in contempt of spiritual and  moral values, dispense with the need for dialogue among peoples and cultures and replace cultural pluralism with  the imposition of monolithic, centralized control over the world's thought, culture and way of life.
(25.5) The present situation highlights the importance of UNESCO's mission and the contribution it can make  by enriching cultural and educational ideas with the concepts of pluralism and dialogue, by formulating fresh  proposals for strengthening co-operation among nations and cultures and by making sure that the cultural identity  of humanity is kept open to contribution from all sources.
(25.6) Mr President, confronted with a situation in which the role of the independent artist and intellectual in  the shaping of a new humanitarianism, in the exercise of a moral censorship on State hegemony and in the  aesthetic defence of all that touches on nature and human sentiment is diminishing every day, we look to  UNESCO as a forum which can inspire hope for humanity and which can act as that buffer between the  artist/intellectual and the State which is needed to protect the artistic and intellectual community against State  domination and to protect the international community against the domination of any single nation. In the absence  of such a buffer, it will be difficult to keep the necessary distinction clear between a new world order and a  monolithic world order and the world would lack a forum for free dialogue among cultures. Humanitarian  principles are bound to lose much of their credibility and human value when they are made to serve some peoples  to the detriment of others Accordingly, it must be recognized that, in order to be effective at all, the principles of  human rights, democracy and self-determination, which have scored some victories in recent years in many parts  of our cosmic village, must be applied everywhere without distinction. In the application of these principles, it is  important that the intrusion of bias based on ulterior motives and the use of double standards should be avoided at  all costs.
(25.7) In the past 50 years or so the Palestinian people have sacrificed tens of thousands of their numbers in  defence of these very principles and values, which have been established in international law. They arc at the  heart of the message which the Intifada’ wishes to communicate to our own people, lo our adversaries and to the  whole world. The predicament of my people, who are suffering under the yoke of Israeli occupation, cries out for  the application of these humanitarian principles and values. We cannot understand why they should be scoring  victories everywhere else in the world but continue to be held in contempt in Palestine. We are fully entitled,
11   therefore, to question the credibility of international law and legitimacy when justice and elementary human  rights are violated daily in the land of Palestine - a land that is holy to both God and humanity! We can well  wonder why we are being bypassed by the whirlwind of change sweeping through our world.
(25.8) The Palestinian people are the victims of two World Wars, and the contemporary Palestine problem is  the product of those wars in whose outbreak we had no part. Nor did we have any part in creating the Jewish  problem, which was the product of a Western racist policy whose price we were made to pay. Now that the books  have avowedly been closed on those wars and their unpleasant aftermath, we are entitled to look for our share of  justice, self-determination and independence in the coming world order from which wars, both hot and cold, have  been banished. We are also entitled to express our apprehension lest in the establishment of the new world order,  the injustices wrought upon us by the preceding order are not only maintained but consolidated. There is also  genuine fear that instead of passing gradually from a state of hostility to one of competition then on to a state of  peace and co-operation, international relations may make an abrupt leap from hostility to dependency,  accompanied by a conspiracy of silence concerning the sufferings of certain peoples. It is also with this fear in  mind that we put the following question before the custodians of international law and the human conscience:  How much longer is the cruel embargo on bread for the Iraqi people, medicine for their sick and milk and  notebooks for their children gong to last? How much longer will collective punishment be inflicted upon a people  that is heir to the oldest civilization on earth?
(25.9) Mr President, the media are continually urging the public to applaud the arrival of the brave new world  and the timely end of ideology. If this is true, however, what are we to make of the fact that the organized  ideological campaign against the Arabs and Islam is still being waged in full strength? And why are some  Western opinion-makers still bent on fabricating an enemy against whom to practise their martial arts if the age of  war has really come to an end? Why does the Zionist movement applaud the return’ of young settlers who arrive  in waves to take over lands that belong to others? Why does it consider itself exempted from the obligations of  international law? Why does it continue to swim unregarding against the current of universal human values,  which it violates daily with impunity in the occupied territories? Its systematic destruction of the structures of  Palestinian society, its colonial settlement policy, the killing, imprisonment and starvation of so many people and  the total paralysis of an education system are all evidence of its indefatigable effort to wrest from the Palestinians  and their children not only their land, but also their culture and even their memory!
(25.10) While we are grateful for the support UNESCO has given to our educational and cultural institutions,  we hope that it will do even more to protect Jerusalem from the efforts to destroy its timeless symbols, uproot its  harassed inhabitants and Judaize the city so as to give one religion predominance over the rest and to degrade  Jerusalem into a mere collection of tourist museums. Jerusalem is neither a pile of stones, nor a stock of  memories; it is a land, a people, a spirit, a history and the repository of peace ad coexistence - a harmonious  whole. The job of dissipating the doubts that have been cast on the spiritual, cultural and universal identity of the  holy city of Jerusalem is a universal cultural responsibility. Jerusalem can never become the exclusive property of  any one group - be it Muslim, Christian or Jewish; it must remain the symbol of Divine Unity in human diversity.
(25.11) It is about time that the Israelis abandoned their ghetto mentality and stopped nurturing their brand of  xenophobia. They must adapt to the new spirit of the age, stop their resistance to the prevailing trend in favour of  human rights, democracy and the self-determination of peoples and renounce their policy of occupation and  repression. It is also time that the dictates of international law concerning the Israeli occupation of Palestinian and  Arab territories were implemented so that the peoples of the region can enjoy the blessings of peace and pursue a  life of creativity and freedom from fear.
(25.12) The Palestine Liberation Organization has based its peace plan on the dictates of international law, the  principle of the acceptance of the other and the right of all the peoples and States of the Middle East to live in  peace and security. The opportunity has arrived for the region to pass from an era of long and bloody wars to one  of peace, coexistence and construction. Our faith in pluralism is the natural consequence of our historical, cultural  and spiritual heritage; for we are the products of a mixture of cultures and religions which coexisted in harmony  and tolerance in the holy land of Palestine. Our peace plan is firmly grounded in history and provides a foundation  for dialogue between the past and the future.
(25.13) Deeply convinced that a peace based on justice and freedom is in our best interest and wanting to be in  harmony with the spirit of the age, which gives pride of place to coexistence, co-operation and democracy, we are  taking an active part in all efforts to establish peace in the Middle East, even those efforts that lack the necessary  conditions for success. Hence we are attending the Peace Conference confident that our claims are for the  enjoyment of inalienable rights which are recognized by the custodians of international law, which is the  obligatory primary reference point for the Peace Conference. We both know, Mr President, that there will be no  real peace in the world until a just peace is established in the Middle East; and there will be no real peace in the  Middle East until the dove of peace, flying with justice on one wing and freedom on the other, reaches the land of  the olive branch, the land of the prophets and the land of peace. Thank you for your attention.
26. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the mission of Palestine. Our next speaker is H.E. Mr Mamadi Diawara, Minister  of National Education and head of the delegation of Guinea.
27.1 M. DIAWARA (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, honorables délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est pour moi un privilège et un grand  honneur de prendre la parole du haut de cette prestigieuse tribune pour transmettre à cette assemblée encore  plus prestigieuse le message d'amitié, de fraternité, de solidarité et de paix du peuple et du gouvernement de la  République de Guinée. Vous me permettrez, Monsieur le Président, d'associer ma voix à celle de mes  prédécesseurs pour vous féliciter très chaleureusement à l'occasion de votre brillante élection à la présidence de  nos assises. Vos qualités d'homme de science, votre riche expérience de l'UNESCO, vous permettront, nous  n'en doutons pas, de mener avec efficacité à leur terme nos travaux. Je voudrais vous souhaiter beaucoup de  succès dans l'accomplissement de la mission qui vient de vous être confiée. Je voudrais saisir cette occasion  pour remercier votre prédécesseur, M. Anwar Ibrahim de la Malaisie, pour le talent avec lequel il a conduit les  travaux de la vingt-cinquième session, et féliciter le Président du Conseil exécutif, M. Yahya Aliyu du Nigéria,  pour le brio dont il a fait preuve dans l'exercice de ses fonctions et qu'attestent les résultats obtenus.
27.2 — Je voudrais également souhaiter la bienvenue à l'UNESCO aux trois pays baltes ainsi qu'à Tuvalu.  Leur admission au sein de la grande famille de l'UNESCO aura un impact certain sur l'avenir de notre  Organisation qui une fois de plus a besoin de l'universalité.
27.3 Je voudrais enfin saisir cette occasion pour exprimer notre gratitude à l'ensemble des délégations pour  avoir choisi de faire de mon pays l'un des vice-présidents de la vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale.
274 Cela étant dit, honorables délégués, la République de Guinée entend exprimer sa foi en l'UNESCO,  rester fidèle à l'esprit de l'Acte constitutif qui s'est fait l'écho du cri de détresse et d'espoir des millions  d'hommes ayant vécu dans leur chair comme dans leur coeur les conséquences des préjugés, de l'intolérance et  de l'étranglement inadmissible des droits de l'homme. Elle tient à marquer son attachement surtout à l'égalité  souveraine de tous les Etats membres, égalité qui garantit le fonctionnement démocratique des institutions  multilatérales dont il nous paraît indispensable de maintenir l'intangibilité.
27.5 Le monde d'aujourd'hui connaît, de tous côtés, de profonds bouleversements et assiste à une intense  manifestation d'aspirations positives qui tendent toutes vers la paix, la liberté et une plus grande démocratie.  Dans ce processus, l'UNESCO ne peut manquer d'être particulièrement sensible aux transformations en cours et  à la nécessité de les accompagner et de les soutenir dans ses domaines de compétence que sont l'éducation, la  science, la culture et la communication.
27.6 Ce rôle est d'autant plus important que, malgré tout, des périls pèsent chaque jour sur la paix dans le  monde. D'autres menaces issues parfois des pouvoirs que la science et la technologie ont donnés à l'homme s'y  ajoutent : les ressources naturelles sont exploitées de manière anarchique ; le cadre de vie se dégrade ; les  inégalités entre pays ou groupes de pays deviennent intolérables et les incompréhensions entre cultures  persistent.
27.7 — L'UNESCO se doit donc de participer plemement à la mise en oeuvre d'activités concrètes pour  conjurer ces menaces, car sa vocation parmi les organisations internationales est non seulement d'être le lieu où  se rencontrent, se renforcent et se complètent les regards de ceux qui ont pour mission de servir la science,  l'éducation, de contribuer à créer la culture, de promouvoir l'information, mais aussi d'agir en faveur du  développement.
27.8 C'est ainsi que, tout naturellement, mon pays accorde son soutien à toutes les initiatives du Directeur  général visant à préserver la paix dans le monde, à accroître le savoir et les capacités technologiques de  l'humanité et à consolider l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre international à travers ses implications dans le  domaine de la science et de la technique.
27.9 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993 qui est soumis à notre attention rencontre, dans  ses principales orientations, notre approbation. La délégation de la République de Guinée ne ménagera aucun  effort pour favoriser le consensus car les activités se rapportant à l'éducation - et singulièrement à l'amélioration  des systèmes d'enseignement, à l'éradication de l'analphabétisme, à la maîtrise de la science et de la technologie
11   pour le développement, à la protection de l'environnement et à la sauvegarde des identités culturelles et du  patrimoine de l'humanité - restent pour la Guinée des préoccupations majeures. Nous sommes heureux de  constater également que l'UNESCO accorde une place prioritaire aux activités relatives à la jeunesse et aux  femmes. Ce souci constant donnera à l'Organisation l'éclat nécessaire qui permettra à son message de paix, de  liberté et de justice de pénétrer en profondeur dans les consciences et de contribuer positivement aux  changements que le monde vit aujourd'hui.
27.10 Au cours de l'exercice biennal écoulé, mon pays a mis en oeuvre des activités significatives dans ces  domaines. En 1991, au lendemain de la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous, le gouvernement  guinéen a commencé à mettre en oeuvre, avec l'assistance financière de la Banque mondiale, un important  Programme d'ajustement sectoriel de l'éducation (PASE), dont l'objectif est l'instauration d'un enseignement  primaire de qualité et le renforcement des capacités de l'éducation de base en vue de l'élévation du taux de  scolarisation, notamment en milieu rural.
27.11 Au cours de cette période deux importants séminaires sous-régionaux ont été également organisés, l'un  sur "la coopération entre les institutions d'enseignement technique et professionnel et les entreprises”, l'autre  sur “l'intégration de la micro-informatique dans l'enseignement technique et la formation professionnelle” ; le  premier en collaboration avec le Bureau régional de l'UNESCO pour l'éducation en Afrique, le second au titre  du Programme de participation de l'UNESCO aux activités des Etats membres pour 1990-1991. Ces deux  rencontres s'inscrivent dans le cadre des efforts constants pour une meilleure adéquation quantitative et  qualitative entre formation et emploi ainsi que pour une plus grande maîtrise de l'informatique - cet outil dont  la possession pourrait permettre à nos pays de s'arracher du sous-développement et d'effectuer une avancée  décisive dans le monde des années 2000.
27.12 L'enseignement supérieur reste également une de nos préoccupations majeures. Des débats de fond  sont organisés sur la situation de l'université, sur ce qui a été réalisé, sur ce qu'il convient de hâter, dans tel ou  tel secteur où la réforme n'aurait été qu'à peine entamée. En fait, la qualité de l'enseignement supérieur, le  devenir de la jeunesse estudiantine à la sortie de l'université, son insertion dans le monde du travail demeurent  pour nous des sujets d'actualité. Nous n'avons pas le droit de ne pas les résoudre ; pour y prétendre, nous  devrons tous sortir loin, très loin des sentiers battus. Dès lors, pour sensibiliser tous les secteurs d'activité de  cette importante question, nous nous proposons d'organiser en février 1992 des Journées nationales sur  l'enseignement supérieur. Nous voudrions saisir cette occasion pour solliciter la participation de l'UNESCO et  d'autres Etats membres, afin de bénéficier de leurs riches expériences en la matière.
27.13 Nous apportons également notre appui aux programmes relatifs à la science et à la technologie. La  priorité accordée à ces programmes constitue un grand espoir. Cet espoir est celui de toutes les nations, plus  particulièrement de l'immense majorité d'entre elles, encore frustrées des possibilités offertes par la science et la  technique contemporaines. Cet espoir est celui des hommes de science et de tous ceux qui peuvent accroître le  savoir et les capacités technologiques pour un développement harmonieux de l'humanité. C'est lui qui justifte  l'importance des programmes scientifiques du 26 C/5, dont la mise en oeuvre permettra de consolider nos  acquis dans ce domaine et de réduire le fossé qui sépare les pays développés de ceux en développement.
27.14 A cet égard, l'existence au sein de l'Organisation d'une Division des politiques scientifiques et  technologiques dotée de spécialistes de haut niveau constituait pour les Etats membres un instrument efficace  auquel ils pouvaient faire appel pour élaborer de telles politiques. Sans négliger les raisons qui ont motivé  l'établissement de l'Unité science, technologie et société à la place de cette Division, force est de reconnaître que  nous regrettons les services de cette dernière, tant dans le domaine de la gestion des activités scientifiques et  technologiques que dans celui de la formation de spécialistes nationaux. Le renforcement des potentialités de  l'actuelle Unité science, technologie et société et son élévation au rang de Division, si les conditions budgétaires  le permettent, seraient une nécessité de premier plan.
27.15 Concernant la protection de l'environnement, la République de Guinée a lancé, grâce à l'assistance du  PNUD et de l'UNESCO, le projet pilote des monts Nimba, site inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial, pour  la sauvegarde des espèces animales et végétales uniques au monde qui participent à l'équilibre de la biosphère.  En raison de l'importance de ce projet, une deuxième phase est en préparation, pour laquelle nous lançons un  appel à d'autres bailleurs de fonds en vue de mobiliser des ressources complémentaires.
27.16 Les actions de l'Organisation prévues dans le cadre de la Décennte mondiale du développement  culturel ont également retenu l'attention de notre délégation. Mon pays, en effet, vient d'élaborer une Charte
422   culturelle nationale, après un long travail de concertation qui a mobilisé toutes les couches sociales. Cette  charte ouvre des perspectives de coopération et d'échanges culturels dans un cadre régional et international et  traduit la volonté politique du gouvernement guinéen de conférer à la culture la place prioritaire qu'elle doit  occuper dans les stratégies de développement.
27.17 Pour ce qui concerne la communication, la République de Guinée vient de mettre en place un Réseau  de radios rurales grâce à la contribution de partenaires étrangers, dont l'UNESCO, L'impact de ce précieux outil  de communication se fait déjà sentir au niveau des populations concernées, dans des domaines comme  l'alphabétisation, la lutte contre les feux de brousse, la valorisation des traditions orales, etc.
27.18 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, avant de clore mon propos, je voudrais dire un mot de la  décentralisation de l'UNESCO. L'importance de cette question réside dans le fait qu'elle a toujours été posée  depuis les premières sessions de la Conférence générale. Aujourd'hui, elle retient beaucoup plus notre attention  car notre Organisation commune a besoin d'accroître son dynamisme par une présence plus concrète et plus  féconde sur le terrain. Ma délégation souhaiterait donc le renforcement des bureaux régionaux pour donner à  leur structure un caractère intersectoriel. Ces bureaux s'appuieront, au niveau des Etats membres, sur les  commissions nationales pour l'UNESCO, qui bénéficieront à cet égard du soutien nécessaire. Je voudrais  également vous exprimer le souci constant du gouvernement guinéen de redonner à notre Organisation son  universalité. C'est pourquoi, je voudrais lancer un appel solennel à toutes les bonnes volontés pour qu'elles  joignent leur capacité de persuasion à celle du Directeur général en vue d'associer de nouveau les Etats qui nous  ont quittés à l'accomplissement de notre mission commune. En tout cas, vous pouvez être sûr que nous sommes  à vos côtés pour gagner ce pari.
27.19 Monsieur le Président, la République de Guinée accorde une grande importance à cette Conférence,  parce quelle est persuadée que celle-ci aboutira à des décisions concrètes et efficaces en vue d'accélérer le  développement harmonieux des nations dans la justice et la paix et suivant l'esprit d'un nouvel ordre  international vrai, compris et réalisé dans l'intérêt supérieur de toute l'humanité. Je vous remercie.  (M. Joukov, URSS, prend la présidence)
28. TIPE/ICE/TATEJb:
51 Gnharozapio ysaxaemoro rnaBy néreraumH PBHHEN H MplMOCTaB1AIO CHOBO rOCIONHHy Payito Poa  KoypH, 3aMecTUTENI0 MHHHCTPA HHOCTPAHHbIX Jie], TIaBe jenerandn KyGbl1.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of Guinea and I now give the floor to Mr Rail Roa Kouri, Deputy  Minister of Foreign Affairs and head of the delegation of Cuba.
(29.1) Mr ROA KOURI (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, may I first of all congratulate you, Mr President, on your election  and assure you of the collaboration of my delegation in the accomplishment of your important assignment. I  should like to greet our friend the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, who has worked unrelentingly  throughout the past biennium to implement the many and varied tasks that are the responsibility of our  Organization at the present time. We also extend our greetings to the new members of UNESCO, Latvia, Estonia,  Lithuania and Tuvaiu.
(29.2)  Far-reaching changes have occurred in the world during these last few years, in particular the collapse  of socialism in Europe and the weakening of the USSR and the growing danger of its disintegration; all this has  resulted in the greatest political, economic and military realignment of the post-war period, under the aegis of the  United States.
(29.3) The present international situation has, in fact, brought a new phenomenon with it: the attempt to  impose a single political and social model worldwide. With growing intransigence, which rules out any choice of  alternatives, and on the strength of theories concerning the supposed disappearance of the class struggle at the  international level and the alleged removal of the ideological slanting of international relations, the adoption is  called for of a multi-party model in the political arena accompanied by a capitalist structure of a neo-liberal kind,  under the new name of the market economy. Failure to defer to this dogma - imposed in preference to a host of  others - provides justification for passing judgement on any one of our countries, discriminating against it and  isolating it. On pretexts of various kinds, at variance with international law, an attempt is being made to assert  the validity of an assumed uniformity among the very different States and peoples forming the community of  nations and to impose a new type of relationship in which the principles of national independence and sovereignty  are distorted.
(29.4) Cuba has had to put up with 30 years of aggression, blockades and hostility on the part of successive  United States administrations. This aggressivity is now increasing with the intensification of the economic
426   blockade, from whose grip not even education, science, culture and communication escape. Stronger and stronger  attempts are being made to subdue us by hunger, to damage our image abroad through clumsy campaigns and  fabrications, and to hamper the normal development of our relations with the other countries of the world which  are subjected to pressure and threats in order to make them break off all dealings with Cuba. Today and  tomorrow, as in the past, the irrational policy of the United States towards the Cuban revolution will inevitably  come up against the resolute determination of our people to resist and defeat aggression of any kind, to maintain  the advantages it has won and to continue to build up socialism.
(29.5) In his discerning introduction at the beginning of this Conference, the Director-General stated that the  time had come to put an end to the destitution and inequalities separating the few who have everything from the  many who possess virtually nothing. Similarly, Mr François Mitterrand, President of the French Republic, said in  his inspiring address that freedom was indissociable from development and that democracy could not be founded  on injustice.
(29.6) But the new world being fashioned today - where, in addition to political and military unipolarity, we  see the formation of vast economic blocs or zones concentrating within themselves and in the relations established  between them the mainstreams of trade, investment, credit and technological creativity, resulting in the increasing  cxclusion of the less-developed countries and the widening of the gap between the over-indulged North and the  famished South - is a world that fails to provide genuine solutions to the problems of the Third World which,  furthermore, continues to suffer from the scourge of racism, foreign occupation and imperialist domination.  Today, as a century ago, most of mankind - the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America - are still dying from  malnutrition and curable diseases. Victims, furthermore, of an inequitable system of trade and the intolerable  burden of an unpayable external debt, they have still not been able to free themselves from illiteracy, ignorance  and many other social problems. They are awaiting, in growing despair, the advent of the hour of deliverance that  the Director-General has, with such justified concern, demanded.
(29.7) Very different, I have to say, is the situation in Cuba, where aspirations such as those set out in the  programme of ‘Health for all by the year 2000" were translated into reality a long time ago and where we have  achieved two of UNESCO's three fundamental objectives in education: literacy and the provision of basic  education. We are now working to perfect our system of higher education.
(29.8) Mr President, in our country there are no children begging or prostituting themselves; there is no traffic  in juveniles or illicit trade in organs. There is no consumption of drugs or organized prostitution. Qur cities are  free from the shameful spectacle of the homeless which plagues many towns in the developed North. We have no  chronic unemployment and no citizen is abandoned, discriminated against or socially excluded. The revolution  removed those blots on Cuban society which are today disfiguring the developing world, and even many industrial  countries. For although the collapse of the socialist experiment in the specific example of Eastern Europe is  undeniable at the conclusion of these last 40 years, the failure of dependent capitalism in Africa, Asia and Latin  America that has been building up over the past four centuries is infinitely greater. We accordingly refuse to  accept the ostensible advantages of a model which has served only to maintain the Third World in a state of  backwardness so as to provide a cheap labour force and a reservoir of wealth and natural resources to subsidize  the consumer societies in the North through increasingly lower prices.
(29.9) Mr President, Cuba supports the main lines of emphasis of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-
1993 although this does not exclude certain reservations and causes for concern. What we are all engaged in  today - and this is, perhaps, the fundamental aim of this forum - is the achievement, by means of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, of the objectives and priorities set out in the Medium-Term Plan. The  division of the programme into seven major areas, transverse themes and programmes and mobilizing projects, by  means of which UNESCO seeks to make its contribution particularly effective, warrants our support and  recognition.
(29.10) Despite this support for the aims of the draft programme and budget there are a number of specific  comments we wish to make. Because of the document's synoptic character, we are, in fact, presented with a  budget rather than a programme; this does not always have a sufficiently intellectual basis and we feel obliged to  warn this meeting of the danger of transforming UNESCO into an institution whose work is no more than the cold  calculation of resources and the distribution of funds. This would prejudice its essential ethical and intellectual  task of protecting threatened moral values in the context of a civilization where knowledge whose aim is  domination has often subordinated cultural identities and the spiritual achievements of individuals and peoples to  the desire for conquest, colonization and consumption, in clear opposition to individual happiness and collective  well-being. Similarly, we must guard against the unjustified diversion of resources needed by the developing  countries to programmes of assistance for the countries of Eastern Europe which, even yesterday, were included  in the developed world and which, in any case, enjoy levels of development far higher than ours.
(29.11) UNESCO must today, more than ever before, constitute a moral force that will bring the endeavours of  all its Member States into line with one another - including those countries which, regrettably, have removed
11   themselves from the Organization, countries with powerful cultural movements which should be represented  here - in an effort to achieve the common aims that unite us. This implies, without any shadow of a doubt, giving  special assistance to the South at this time of growing crisis in the Third World countries.
(29.12) The reform of UNESCO must not involve changes that will sweep away its constitutional principles and  fundamental aims; neither must the intellectual task of its organs, particularly that of the Executive Board - be  handed over to the wealthier countries or to genuine or professed experts.
(29.13) We support the proposal that, in future, Executive Board members should be representatives of the  Member States and the recent decision to establish, on an experimental basis, a group of experts on financial and  administrative matters. When a decision is taken concerning the way in which the expenses of Board members  are to be met - should the character of their representation be changed - account should be taken of the difficult  economic and financial situation of most of the developing countries. We are not convinced, however, of the need  to create an ad hoc forum of reflection to deal with questions that clearly fall within the Executive Board's  competence and concerning which the Member States can express their views, including those of their most  distinguished scientists, creative artists, academics and theorists, We are disturbed at the thought of our  Organization's meagre resources being earmarked for an experiment of this kind, to the detriment perhaps of  important programmes, particularly those intended for our countries. Neither do we support the view that in some  way UNESCO needs to create a forum of this kind for the full accomplishment of its task, for this is tantamount  to saying that all its achievements over the past 45 years are just illusory. We shall nevertheless study the draft  proposal that has been submitted with an open mind, for our delegation will always support those initiatives  which seek to strengthen and enrich the work of the Organization.
(29.14) Mr President, among the priorities and programmes being considered by this Conference, Cuba attaches  special importance to the implementation of the Plan of Action approved by the World Conference on Education  for All held in Jomtien in March 1990, and to the principles set out in the Quito Declaration of April 1991.
(29.15) In regard to science, our various national committees in this sector are carrying out important work -  with the co-ordination of the Cuban National Commission for UNESCO - in the Organization's priority fields,  such as the protection of the environment, the marine sciences, the development of biotechnology and, in the  spirit that informs UNESCO, interdisciplinary programmes in which medicine is associated with education and  informatics, all these objectives being fully consistent with my country's development plans in which science has  a predominant place.
(29.16) With respect to Major Programme Area II, Culture, Havana was the venue in September last for the first  regional meeting of National Committees for the World Decade for Cultural Development, which followed the  fourth Regional Conference of Ministers of Culture. As set out in its Final Declaration, its essential aim of  drawing up a regional strategy in the framework of the Decade - in the form of concrete proposals - was fully  attained. Similarly, important results were achieved concerning the Baroque World programme, the rehabilitation  of historic sites for socio-cultural purposes and the needs of tourism, and the cultural promotion workshops for  children and adolescents where our work is being aided by the invaluable contribution of the Organization.
(29.17) In the domain of communication, we are disturbed to see that the so-called free flow of information  expresses, as a general rule, the viewpoints of the developed world. Accordingly, we wish to emphasize the need  for the South to have adequate channels for its voice to be heard. The free flow of information is important as are  the new technologies, but it is essential for our countries to use these media correctly, within an independent  development strategy. Cuban projects such as TV Serrana's Turquino Plan, which has UNESCO's support, are  directed along these lines,
(29.18) Cuba is also working with determination on other transverse themes and programmes such as the  promotion of women, youth and the General Information Programme.
(29.19) Mr President, I should like to refer to the question of decentralization which has been studied in depth  by a distinguished committee. Although this is a subject to which much thought has been given over a long period  in this Organization, the present shortage of funds has, among other reasons, given it a priority status in our work.  In short, we have to state once again that decentralization must not be taken to mean fragmentation and must not  lead to the creation of mini-UNESCOs. Programmes and projects have to be decentralized and the Regional  Offices granted autonomy, but without removing the Organization's universal dimension.
(29.20) In this context we must express our concern in regard to certain moves to weaken UNESCO's Regional  Office for Culture for Latin America and the Caribbean in Havana, in clear contradiction to the spirit of  decentralization that seeks, precisely, to strengthen existing units of this kind and to avoid the building up of  excessive administrative power in the Organization's other offices.
(29.21) Mr President, distinguished delegates, my government's policies are fully in keeping with UNESCO's  aims in education, science, culture and other relevant areas. Our Organization is a forum for reflection, an  intellectual and moral force which must increasingly assert spiritual values in the face of growing consumerism  that does not make for happiness. It is precisely in this area that my small, blockaded country can pass on the  benefits of its experience to UNESCO and continue to draw inspiration from it. We believe, without any shadow  of a doubt, that it is our duty and the duty of UNESCO to strive to ensure that these moral values prevail.
(29.22) Only 24 hours ago, we commemorated in Cuba the 'Day of National Culture’, an event epitomizing the  age-old struggle of our country for national independence and identity. I can maintain today, before this world  forum of culture, that, in President Fidel Castro's words, ‘Cuba will hold its ground as an example of a revolution  which will not waver, will not betray itself, will not surrender and will not kneel in submission’. For, as José  Marti stated a century ago, 'a people which engages in revolution does not abandon it until it has achieved its  ends’. Many thanks.
30. IPE/[CE/TATE/Db:
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of Cuba and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Preç Zogaj, Minister for  Culture, Youth and Sport and head of the delegation of Albania.
31.1 M. ZOGAJ (Albanie) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, permettez-moi tout d'abord,  Monsieur le Président, de me joindre aux autres délégations pour présenter mes vives félicitations à M. Ogot  pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale.
312 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, pendant le dernier exercice biennal 1990-1991,  l'UNESCO, cette organisation de prestige qui rayonne dans le monde entier, a développé son rôle irremplaçable  au service des cultures, des pays, des peuples et des individus. Partout où l'UNESCO est présente, l'humanité  voit le reflet d'une société qui se construit progressivement avec le matériau des valeurs de la culture et de la  science. Partout où l'on travaille pour la paix et le progrès, on retrouve l'esprit de l'UNESCO. Son activité  fructueuse trouve clairement son écho dans les réalités porteuses d'espoir et dans les nouvelles tendances de  l'époque dans laquelle nous vivons. L'ancien ordre des murs et des séparations est en train de mourir.  Désormais, les ponts d'entente se multiplient entre les peuples. Les icebergs de la guerre froide connaissent de  jour en jour le dégel. La folie du langage des canons est progressivement remplaçée par la sagesse du dialogue  et des négociations qui doivent être considérés comme les seuls moyens civilisés de résoudre les problèmes et  les conflits. Les décors absurdes des rideaux, des compartiments et des labyrinthes ont définitivement quitté la  scène de l'histoire, et cèdent la place à une communication des cultures basée sur la transparence. Jamais  l'humanité n’a été si proche de la réalisation de ses nobles aspirations en faveur de la paix mondiale, du travail  et de la coexistence pacifique.
31,3 Cela témoigne de la prudence et de l'efficacité des politiques modérées des Etats et des gouvernements,  ces Etats et gouvernements qui, en contribuant à la paix, respectent leur peuple et les peuples des autres pays.  Cela témoigne du triomphe de la bonne volonté des hommes et des femmes sur l'avidité de pouvoir de certains  individus. Cela témoigne qu'en fin de compte, la victoire revient inéluctablement à la culture parce qu'elle est  l'essence même de la raison, tandis que l'ignorance débouche toujours sur la violence.
314 — À la lumière de cette prise de conscience, il est indéniable que notre Organisation est la mieux placée  dans le système des Nations Unies pour non seulement s'adapter mais surtout contribuer à l'édification du  nouvel ordre mondial. Dans cette perspective, nous devons rendre hommage au Directeur général. Les efforts  de rationalisation qu'il a su imposer au Secrétariat, en dépit des contraintes financières, méritent d'être  soutenus. De surcroît, sa lutte contre les mythes du passé et les utopies de l'avenir a permis à l'UNESCO de  réaffirmer sa place au sein des autres organisations internationales.
315  L'Albanie ne peut que se réjouir de la mort du manichéisme idéologique. Pendant près d'un demi-  siècle, un régime totalitaire communiste a imposé au peuple une dictature tyrannique et absurde sans équivalent  en Europe. Prisonnière des murs de l'isolement, l'Albanie est restée longtemps une terre sans continent. Destin
11   exceptionnel pour ce pays qui fut le point de rencontre de toutes les grandes civilisations antiques et demeure  un trait d'union entre l'Europe et l'Orient.
316 Cette volonté de nier la modernité était vouée à l'échec. L'histoire a vite repris ses droits face aux  grandes utopies. Les étudiants de l'Université de Tirana se sont soulevés en décembre dernier. L'intelligentsia et  la population les ont rejoints pour abattre la dictature. Dorénavant, rien ne pouvait plus empêcher l'Albanie de  reprendre sa place parmi les nations libres pour y réaffirmer les valeurs de la civilisation albanaise et son  profond attachement aux droits inhérents à la personne humaine. Partageant avec eux cette renaissance  internationale, l'Albanie en profite pour saluer l'entrée de nouveaux membres dans l'Organisation, notamment  celle des trois Etats baltes qui sont le symbole éclatant d'un combat lucide, déterminé et pacifique pour  l'indépendance. De même, la Slovénie, qui a fait part au Secrétariat de sa volonté d'adhérer à l'UNESCO et qui  réunit les critères constitutifs du statut d'Etat au regard du droit international, peut légitimement espérer  rassembler lors de cette Conférence générale la majorité des deux tiers qui permettrait son admission. Et si des  doutes subsistent quant à la réalité de son indépendance, et pour éviter les risques d'excès que pourraient  provoquer d'autres demandes, notre Organisation a toujours la possibilité de demander un avis consultatif à la  Cour internationale de justice.
31,7 De même, si l'UNESCO veut redevenir la conscience intellectuelle des Nations Unies, elle ne peut  rester indifférente au sort tragique de la majorité albanaise du Kosovo. La politique d'assimilation forcée menée  par les Serbes atteint aujourd'hui son paroxysme. Les illustrations de cette tentative d'éradication culturelle sont  nombreuses : les fermetures d'écoles albanaises, la suppression des plus importants vecteurs d'information de  langue albanaise, journaux, chaînes de télévision et maisons d'édition ou plus récemment, les licenciements  massifs d'enseignants à tous les niveaux. Aujourd'hui, c'est l'Académie des sciences qui est menacée de  fermeture. Ce bombardement silencieux mérite notre attention et si le Secrétariat décide l'envoi d'observateurs à  Dubrovnik, il a le devoir de prolonger leur mission au Kosovo et en Macédoine afin de constater les atteintes au  droit culturel des Albanais et prendre contact avec les personnalités éminentes et représentatives de leur culture.  L'Albanie en appelle au civisme international. Les Etats et les organisations du système des Nations Unies  doivent être vigilants et soutenir les revendications pacifiques, démocratiques et culturelles des Albanais qui  souffrent au Kosovo. La plupart des Etats ont manifesté récemment leur intention d'édifier un nouvel ordre  mondial stable, harmonieux et garanti par un droit international qui ne soit pas à géométrie variable. Une prise  de position de l'UNESCO au sujet du Kosovo permettrait à l'Organisation de matérialiser enfin les principes  contenus dans son Acte constitutif. LA est son seul avenir.
318 Pour cela, il faut de la lucidité et du courage. Le courage, à défaut d'un meilleur terme, est une bonne  chose. Le courage est un moteur. Le courage clarifie, décèle et s'imprègne de l'essence même de l'esprit  d'évolution. Le courage a marqué le développement de l'humanité. Et le courage sauvera non seulement le  Kosovo, mais aussi l'UNESCO, Pour cela, nous devons échapper à l'univers où les consensus sont le résultat de  concessions et rarement d'innovations, l'univers où l'on confond les compromis avec les décisions, les intentions  avec l'action, l'UNESCO que l'on rêve avec l'UNESCO que l'on fait. C'est à cette condition que l'UNESCO  redeviendra attractive et pourra retrouver son universalité. Depuis quelque temps, les Etats-Unis, le Royaume-  Uni et Singapour ont adopté une attitude encourageante, mais vigilante vis-à-vis de l'Organisation. Il faut  espérer que les doutes de chacun seront rapidement levés et leur retour bientôt annoncé.
319 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, par delà notre désir commun de moderniser notre  Organisation et d'élargir ses rangs, il convient de nous pencher sur les problèmes issus de la longue  participation quasi formelle d'un Etat membre aux activités de l'UNESCO. Ce pays est l'Albanie. Jusqu'à  aujourd'hui, les fonctionnaires rouges du régime, ces esclaves du mensonge, gardiens de la vérité, ont fixé un  élégant masque sur le visage de mon pays. Ce déguisement a eu pour conséquence l'exclusion de l'Albanie des  hautes instances internationales comme l'UNESCO. Ce masque trompeur est maintenant déchiré. La  falsification a pris fin. Notre délégation est ici pour montrer le vrai visage de I'Albanie ; un visage noble,  généreux et ouvert, mais encore fatigué et crispé. Un visage qui exprime la confiance en soi, la confiance en  l'Europe, mais qui ne peut s'empêcher de trahir un certain ébahissement devant l'indifférence manifestée à son  égard. Cela est caractéristique d'un peuple jeune qui peut se régénérer rapidement, mais qui reste imprégné par  l'idée qu'exprimait cette phrase scandée par les étudiants de Tirana : "Nous sommes des Européens en exil du  monde.”
31.10 Mesdames et Messieurs, cette jeunesse qui s'est soulevée au nom des principes de liberté et de progrès  dont vous vous êtes fait les champions m'a chargé de faire appel à vous pour la soutenir dans son effort de  reconstruction du pays. En ma qualité de représentant du gouvernement de stabilisation nationale, j'apporte un
430   soutien d'autant plus ferme à cette aspiration que la soif de développement et de culture des jeunes Albanais se  heurte à des obstacles énormes. Après une rentrée scolaire retardée d'un mois, il est difficile de redonner  confiance à des élèves qui ont peu de cahiers, encore moins de manuels et rarement des vitres aux fenêtres.  Tout comme 1l est difficile pour un gouvernement sans moyens de redonner confiance à ses étudiants, pionniers  de la démocratie albanaise.
31.11 Malgré la détérioration des conditions de vie et d'apprentissage de la vie, le gouvernement a élaboré  une loi-cadre sur l'enseignement qui doit permettre la dépolitisation des programmes et qui prend en compte les  intérêts des minorités. Néanmoins, le succès de cette réforme ne pourra être assuré qu'avec le concours  d'institutions prestigieuses et expérimentées comme le sont l'UNESCO et la Communauté européenne.
31.12 La recherche scientifique albanaise traverse également une grave crise. Mal orientée, trop longtemps  au service d'une économie centralisée, planifiée, et donc non rentable, elle n'est pas préparée à susciter les  innovations technologiques indispensables au développement de l'économie de marché. C'est pourquoi, nous  soutenons la proposition italienne visant à la création de laboratoires scientifiques ouverts.
31.13 Les milieux artistiques sont confrontés à un autre problème ; celui de l'exode - phénomène socialement  pénible et néfaste pour la culture albanaise. Là encore, les moyens financiers font cruellement défaut pour la  mise en place d'une véritable politique culturelle. Là encore, l'action de l'UNESCO peut s'avérer déterminante.  Nous sommes favorables à l'établissement d'une commission internationale qui serait chargée de rédiger un  rapport sur la culture et le développement. Et notre soutien à l'effort de concentration ne nous empêche pas  d'espérer qu'une action ciblée mais d'envergure pourra être entreprise au bénéfice de la culture de mon pays  actuellement en pleine restauration. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
51 Gnaroxapto yBaxaeMOro rHiaBy ereralikH ATG0aHHH H Mpe/lOcTaB/stO cnoBo rocnoxe OneTT l'oHce,  TexeparnbHOMy cekpeTapio MexyHapoxHon gejie pany OMOBO/CTBA. OHOBPEMEHHO st XOTe Obl BOCIIOJb-
30BaThCsl HEGONbIION May30d H HANOMHUTL YBa)KaeMbIM OPpaTOpaM © BpeMeHHbIX JIMMHTaX, KOTOPbIE  yCTaHOBIEHb! Js BbICTYILIEHHHÉ YBaXKACMbIX IJ1aB JicTerauuit rOCYRAPCTB-UIIEHOB H HENpaBHTENbCTBEHHbIX  oprauusanuii. IIpoury Bac.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of Albania and I now give the floor to Ms Odette Goncet, Secretary  General of the International Federation for Home Economics. I should also like briefly to remind speakers of the  time-limits which have been established for speeches by heads of delegation of Member States and non-  governmental organizations. Ms Goncet, the floor is yours.
33.1 Mme GONCET (Fédération internationale pour l'économie familiale) :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres Mesdames et Messieurs les  anbassadeurs, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est toujours un grand honneur que d'être appelé à  prononcer quelques mots en session plénière de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, mais c'est surtout, pour  nous, responsables d'organisations internationales non gouvernementales ayant statut de consultation ou  d'association avec l'UNESCO, une occasion unique de faire connaître aux décideurs politiques que vous êtes,  puisque vous représentez vos gouvernements, les préoccupations de cette partie de la population du globe que  nous représenlons et qui n'a pas toujours la possibilité de faire entendre sa voix.
33.2 La Fédération internationale pour l'économie familiale est une ONG de catégorie À ; elle est très  ancienne puisqu'elle est née en 1908. Je ne crois pas qu'il soit utile que je rappelle son histoire, mais en tout cas  elle se flatte d'être une ONG véritablement mondiale puisqu'elle est présente dans 116 pays. Mais n'ai-je pas le  droit de dire qu'elle est véritablement universelle, puisque même si nous n'avons pas des membres dans tous les  pays du monde, l'économie familiale, elle, est partout.
33.3 En cette fin du XXe siècle où chacun s’est laissé surprendre par une accélération de l'histoire dont nul  ne prévoyait qu'elle prendrait une telle ampleur, les populations, comme les gouvernements, les hommes et les  femmes, les familles du monde, ont à faire face à de redoutables problèmes. Le progrès scientifique et  technique, si magique qu'il ait pu paraître, n'a pas su prolonger son enchantement jusqu'aux domaines les plus  triviaux de la vie quotidienne, tels qu'ils affectent cruellement la plus nombreuse partie de la population du  monde. Nous savons fabriquer le froid et le chaud, mais la villageoise africaine n'a pas de combustible pour  cuire son ragoût ; nous savons faire de la lumière mais le paysan de la cordillère des Andes n'a pas de bougies  pour s'éclairer ; nous savons voler dans les airs mais l'enfant de la brousse doit encore parcourir d'immenses
11   distances à pied s'il veut trouver une école où apprendre à lire et à écrire. La dichotomie que dénonçait Edgar  Faure dans la préface d'"Apprendre à être", ouvrage de référence de la bibliothèque de l'UNESCO, la  dichotomie ne s'est pas comblée et se creuse même davantage entre le monde dit développé et celui qui cherche  son propre développement.
334 L'économie familiale, qui est une discipline modeste, préconise depuis des décennies des solutions. La  modestie de ces solutions fait sans doute qu'on ne les prend pas au sérieux, tant on a privilégié, et on continue  de privilégier les plans gigantesques, les macro-projets sur les micro-réalisations, sans jamais avoir réellement  voulu étudier les interactions des uns et des autres. L'économie familiale revendique de s'intéresser  essentiellement aux projets à échelle individuelle et familiale - la famille qui est la celluie de base de la société  humaine, où l'on consomme certes, d'abord, mais où l'on produit aussi. Et lorsqu'on m'objecte que, dans les  pays industrialisés, par exemple, la famille est de moins en moins productrice et de plus en plus  consommatrice, je répondrai qu'elle continue de produire ce qu'il y a de plus irremplaçable pour l'avenir de  l'humanité : les hommes et les femmes de demain. La famille produit des enfants, elle les nourrit, elle les  éduque, elle leur transmet des valeurs morales et culturelles, cela est incontournable.
33.5 Que la famille transmette aussi des valeurs que nous considérons comme périmées, voire comme  nuisibles au progrès humain, cela est vrai aussi - et Lévi-Strauss l'avait souligné en son temps -, mais c'est une  raison de plus de se préoccuper de ce qui se passe à l'intérieur du milieu familial et d'aider la famille à faire le  tri entre les valeurs de progrès et celles qui ne sont que des modes de vie périmés. Je pense en particulier à tout  ce qui concerne la condition des femmes et des filles, dont le statut second se perpétue bien souvent avec la  complicité de la famille.
336 — L'économie familiale ne cherche pas à maintenir les femmes prisonnières de leurs foyers : bien au  contraire, elle leur donne le premier apprentissage en vue d'une vraie autonomie et, éventuellement, une vie  professionnelle à part entière. Il faut absolument que les femmes aient droit à la décision, qu'elles aient droit  aussi à l'information en matière de procréation, car c'est elles qui mettent au monde les enfants. L'économie  familiale, et nous aimons dire familiale et sociale, se préoccupe de tous ces problèmes d'éthique, de valeurs.  Certes elle enseigne des disciplines très pratiques comme l'alimentation et la nutrition, l'hygiène et les soins de  santé, la prévention des maladies sexuellement transmissibles comme le sida, elle enseigne aussi à tenir un  budget et à consommer intelligemment, elle enseigne l'artisanat et la génération de nouvelles ressources, mais  elle s'interroge aussi sur l'axiologie, c'est-à-dire sur les valeurs, et elle pense que seule une réflexion au sein de  la famille peut aider à créer un nouvel humanisme qui pourra permettre que le monde progresse  harmonieusement. La vie de famille est un tout : on ne peut s'intéresser au bien-être physique sans s'intéresser  aussi au bien-être affectif, mental et moral. C'est pourquoi l'économie familiale telle que nous la concevons est  une approche globale et non en miettes. Elle s'appuie sur des spécialités mais elle vise la totalité - la totalité de  l'être humain qui cherche à créer une vie toujours meilleure sur cette belle "bulle bleue” qu'est notre planète. En  cette fin de siècle où la science, en particulier la biogénétique, ne laisse pas de nous interroger et de nous  inquiéter, où nous pouvons maîtriser la reproduction humaine, où nous pouvons aider les femmes stériles, par  exemple, il convient que nous réfléchissions ensemble sur une éthique de la science.
33.7 A tous les responsables ici présents et qui ont bien voulu voter favorablement pour la proclamation de  l'Année internationale de la famille en 1994, je dis, au nom de mon association : ne négligez pas de mettre en  place dans vos pays de bons programmes éducatifs, obligatoires pour les garçons comme pour les filles, dans  toutes les disciplines de base de l’économie familiale. J'ai fait de nombreux voyages dans les pays du centre et  de l'est de l'Europe, dans les pays de l'hémisphère Sud, dans les pays industrialisés qui comptent eux aussi  d'énormes îlots d'extrême pauvreté non résorbés, et je me dis que ce monde est bien absurde, qui consacre tant  de ressources à des activités de destruction alors qu'une infime partie des sommes dépensées ainsi permettrait  dc former des éducateurs en économie familiale, qui apprendraient aux familles à être responsables de leur  bien-être et non pas à être de simples assistés.
33.8 Plus j'avance en expérience et plus je me dis que le seul avenir pour l'humanité c'est l'éducation.  Education à la démocratie, c'est-à-dire à l'exercer ; éducation aux métiers, car la liberté n'est rien sans  l'indépendance économique et la capacité de gagner sa vie ; éducation à la beauté car que vaut une vie si elle  n'est pas embellie par l'art qui fut la première création de l'homme, toute chose étant par art ou par nature.
339 — L'économie familiale, on l'appelle aussi, ici ou là, écologie humaine car son champ de recherche et de  pratique vise à permettre à l'homme et à la famille humaine de se créer un écosystème qui s'imbrique  harmonieusement dans tous les autres écosystèmes, sans nuisances ni pollutions physiques ou morales. Les
432   problèmes de notre environnement planétaire et extraplanétaire étant reconnus par tous comme la priorité des  priorités, ne négligeons pas l'apport de la science et des techniques de l'économie familiale en ce vaste défi. Les  petits alliés sont souvent décisifs pour remporter les grandes victoires.
33.10 Je ne voudrais pas terminer sans appeler l'attention de cette honorable assemblée sur l'agent essentiel  d'une économie familiale harmonieuse - je l'ai déjà dit un peu plus haut mais je voudrais à nouveau le  souligner, quitte à paraître redondante : la femme, la mère de famille. Certes les rôles sont maintenant  interchangeables au sein de la famille, et c'est heureux, mais la femme en reste le pilier central. Or, il nous est  apparu qu'en bien des lieux de ce monde, le statut de la femme est en régression par rapport aux espérances  qu'avaient fait naître les Conférences de Mexico en 1975 et de Nairobi en 1985. Seule une femme libre et  responsable, juridiquement égale de l'homme, pourra être une intendante efficace de la vie familiale, en même  temps qu'une éducatrice et une créatrice de valeurs éthiques. Il convient que les obstacles idéologiques et  politiques qui s'opposent à la réalisation de l'égalité des droits des êtres humains soient levés et que la Charte  des Nations Unies ne soit pas seulement une déclaration d'intention.
33.11 Je dirai un mot aussi sur la jeunesse. Nous avons un très grand nombre d'étudiants et d'étudiantes en  économie sociale familiale de par le monde. Point encore assez, mais il faut savoir que ces jeunes sont en  attente de vos décisions, Il faut que l'UNESCO donne à cette jeunesse les moyens appropriés de pratiquer des  échanges, des rencontres, des projets communs, projets de développement prenant en compte les spécificités  ethniques et culturelles, mais de manière à ce qu'une meilleure compréhension mutuelle empêche à tout jamais  que la revendication des identités culturelles aboutisse à la folie des guerres ethniques que l'on croyait disparues  et que l'on voit resurgir un peu partout. Je voudrais à ce titre féliciter la Division de la jeunesse de l'UNESCO,  grâce à laquelle des consultations collectives ont pu avoir lieu en Grèce, en Espagne, en Union soviétique, et  plus récemment en Roumanie. Il faudrait redonner à cette division les moyens d'octroyer des bourses aux jeunes  pour favoriser ces échanges. Et je demande que l'on n'oublie pas, dans l'octroi de ces bourses, les étudiants en  économie familiale, qui n'en ont encore jamais obtenu de la part de l'UNESCO. L'affirmation de sa diversité ne  doit pas aller jusqu'à la négation de l'autre, et c'est quand on se rencontre qu'on reconnaît l'autre. Je suis sûre  que ces rencontres et ces échanges entre les jeunes et entre les familles du monde devraient nous conduire, par  la convivialité, à générer un peu d'harmonie et un véritable esprit de paix. Marthe, l'humble servante du foyer,  doit apprendre à Marie que la contemplation des idées n'est pas tout et que rompre le pain ensemble est encore  lc meilleur moyen d'apprendre à s'aimer.
33.12 Il m'est impossible de terminer sans évoquer ce qu'a été le rôle de l'UNESCO - je l'ai déjà dit plus  haut - en ce qui concerne la décision des Nations Unies de célébrer l'Année internationale de la famille. Mais  alors que l'UNESCO apparaissait comme un moteur et qu'un certain nombre de recherches et de réunions ont  été faites sous l'égide de l'UNESCO, tout à coup, si j'ai bien lu le Projet de programme et budget, on s'aperçoit  que 60.000 petits misérables dollars seulement sont consacrés à la recherche sur la famille et à la famille. Ne  peut-on demander à cette honorable assemblée d'essayer de trouver quelques subsides de plus, car il me semble  que les familles du monde méritent un peu mieux que 60.000 dollars ? On a évoqué à la cérémonie d'ouverture  de cette vingt-sixième session la devise de la République française : liberté, égalité, fraternité. Qui ne voit que  le banquet familial fraternel devrait être celui de toute la famille humaine ?
110 BONPOCAM ofpa3oBalus H cnopta, raase jciacranny Jlaocckoit Hapoio-l[emokparHyeckoñ PecnyG1HKH.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the Secretary-General of the International Federation for Home Economics and I now give the  floor to H.E. Mr Khamtanh Chanthala, Deputy Minister for Education and Sport and head of the delegation of the  Lao People's Democratic Republic.
35.1 M. CHANTHALA (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, j'ai le plaisir de saluer,  au nom du gouvernement de la République démocratique populaire lao, la vingt-sixième session de la  Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, organisation qui incarne la conscience de l'humanité et son génie créateur,  et qui oeuvre pour la paix dans le monde et pour le bien-être de l'homme. J'ai aussi le plaisir d'adresser au  Président élu de la Conférence générale mes chaleureuses félicitations pour la confiance que les Etats membres  lui ont accordée, confiance qu'il mérite largement par son expérience, en le chargeant de diriger les travaux de
11   cette Conférence. Je tiens à féliciter la Lituanie, l'Estonie, la Lettonie et Tuvalu à l'occasion de leur admission  comme membres de notre Organisation.
35.2 Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement de la République démocratique populaire lao reste fidèle à  l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO et aux traditions établies au sein de cette Organisation. C'est ce qui nous amène  à nous réunir de nouveau pour faire le bilan de ce qui a été réalisé suite aux décisions prises à la précédente  session et aussi pour examiner ensemble le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993.
35.3 Avant d'entrer dans le détail, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de souligner combien le  gouvernement de la République démocratique populaire lao apprécie l'instauration d'un climat favorable à la  compréhension internationale, à l'établissement de la paix et à la détente à l'échelle mondiale. Des changements  importants se sont produits dans le monde pendant cette période de deux ans qui nous sépare de la vingt-  cinquième session de la Conférence générale. Ces changements sont dus, à notre avis, aux aspirations  communes des peuples épris de paix et soucieux de l'équilibre dans le monde. Nous voyons de plus en plus  s'établir une nouvelle mentalité politique qui devient à la fois une philosophie des relations internationales et un  programme d'action à base de valeurs humaines. Ce progrès n'est-il pas le résultat de longs et patients efforts,  animés en grande partie par l'UNESCO ?
35.4 Dans ce contexte général de transformation, notre gouvernement a procédé en temps opportun à des  réformes tant sur le plan économique que politique. En effet, dès 1986, il s'est engagé dans la voie d'un passage  accéléré d'une économie dirigée à une économie de marché fondée sur la mobilisation de tous les agents  économiques, en particulier le secteur privé. Cette réforme, d'abord économique, s'est poursuivie sur le plan  politique, social et culturel. Elle vise à renforcer la démocratie, l'unité nationale et l'instauration d'un Etat de  droit.
35.5 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, en s'appuyant sur les recommandations générales de l'UNESCO et en  tenant compte de la réalité du pays, le gouvernement s'est proposé de renforcer d'ici à l'an 2000 le système  éducatif en vue d'en faire la pierre angulaire d'une stratégie de développement des ressources humaines axée sur  l'élimination de la pauvreté et l'accroissement de la productivité du travail. La réforme ainsi adoptée se propose  de développer et d'améliorer l'éducation dans le pays par les moyens suivants : création d'un système  d'enseignement homogène et démocratique, grâce à l'établissement d'un cadre législatif et des mécanismes de  sélection des effectifs ; révision complète des programmes d'études et intégration de ceux-ci dans l'ensemble du  plan de développement économique et social du pays ; relèvement du niveau de qualification du personnel  enseignant dans le sens d'une pédagogie active adaptée à l'environnement et à la communauté concernée ;  amélioration de l'environnement pédagogique, construction et regroupement d'écoles permettant la mise en  oeuvre des nouveaux programmes d'études ; développement institutionnel des instances chargées de la  planification scolaire et de l'exécution du programme. La réforme visera donc à mettre en place un  enseignement primaire obligatoire, selon les dispositions de notre nouvelle Constitution et conformément à la  Déclaration mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous, et à préparer progressivement un enseignement de base de huit  ans structuré en deux cycles respectivement de cinq et de trois années.
35.6 Dans les domaines de la culture, des sciences sociales et de la communication, grâce à l'appui  technique de l'UNESCO, notre pays a pu participer activement aux activités régionales prévues dans son  dernier programme biennal, Nous apprécions à sa juste valeur l'aide que le Programme international pour le  développement de la communication a accordée récemment au projet de renforcement du réseau de  communication de l'Agence de presse nationale lao.
35.7 Quant à la mission de notre Organisation, Monsieur le Président, nous pensons qu'il est nécessaire  d'axer ses activités sur la solution des problèmes d'actualité qui se posent à l'humanité tels que la paix, le  développement et la protection de l'environnement. Cette mission devrait présenter un triple caractère :  intellectuel, universel et éthique. Pour que l'UNESCO puisse s'acquitter honorablement de cette mission, elle  doit adapter sa structure et ses méthodes de travail à l'évolution des besoins de la communauté internationale.  C'est la raison pour laquelle notre délégation est favorable à la proposition, faite initialement par le Japon,  tendant à renforcer l'efficacité des activités de l'UNESCO en assurant la continuité de la représentation de  chaque Etat membre élu au Conseil exécutif ainsi qu'une pleine participation de tous les Etats membres, sur un  pied d'égalité, aux travaux de l'Organisation.
35.8 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de la République démocratique populaire lao partage entièrement  les avis exprimés par le Conseil exécutif dans ses recommandations sur le Projet de programme et de budget
434   pour 1992-1993 soumis à notre examen. Nous tenons à féliciter le Directeur général de l'UNESCO d'avoir  élaboré avec beaucoup de clarté le document 26 C/5, dont les objectifs fixés répondent bien aux intérêts des  pays en développement et en particulier à ceux des pays les moins avancés. Mon pays accueille avec satisfaction  l'orientation générale du champ majeur de programme I (L'éducation et l'avenir), tant par sa structure que par  son contenu. La priorité accordée à l'éducation pour tous, tant au niveau de l'alphabétisation et de l'éducation  des adultes, qu'à celui de l'universalisation d'un enseignement primaire de qualité pour tous les citoyens, en  particulier les filles et les femmes au sein des minorités, nous paraît très appropriée.
359 Quant au domaine de la culture, tout en appuyant dans son ensemble le projet présenté, nous  souhaitons que l'UNESCO fasse davantage d'efforts en faveur des pays les moins développés en attachant une  importance toute particulière à la formation en matière de conception et de gestion des projets artistiques et  culturels. Dans les thèmes transversaux sur les femmes et la jeunesse, nous appuyons fermement les  programmes proposés et en particulier ceux qui mettent l'accent sur le rôle des femmes dans le développement,  le changement social et la protection de l'environnement. Dans mon pays, les femmes et la jeunesse ont leur  organisation bien structurée pour participer à la mise en oeuvre de la politique de développement du pays,  notamment dans le secteur de l'éducation des adultes.
35.10 Nous avons constaté que le Programme de participation a rendu de grands services aux membres de  l'UNESCO, en particulier aux pays les moins avancés comme le nôtre. C'est la raison pour laquelle nous  sommes favorables à la proposition du Secrétariat d'augmenter substantiellement le budget en faveur de ce  chapitre. Nous souhaitons néanmoins qu'on veille à ce que les fonds votés soient utilisés uniquement pour les  objectifs fixés par la Conférence générale.
35.11 Pour conclure, j'aimerais exprimer ma profonde conviction que notre Organisation parviendra à  oeuvrer pour la paix, la compréhension internationale et le développement socio-économique de tous les  peuples. Je suis sûr qu'en définissant de nouvelles solidarités internationales et en mobilisant toutes nos  potentialités communes, nous réussirons ensemble à relever tous les défis. Je vous remercie.
36. TMPEACENATE/b:  $I Gharonapio yBaxaemoro rinaBy nererauxH Jlaocckoit Hapoxo-/lemokpaTHueckoH Pecny61HkH H  HpexocTaBisio cnoBo Ee IIperocxouTenbeTBy rocmoxe IloneTT MyccaBy Muccamb60, MHHHCTPY  HallHOHaJbHOro OÔpa3OBaHH#, rnase jeacranuu l'a60o1Ta.
(36) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic and I now give the floor to  H.E. Ms Paulette Moussavou Missambo, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Gabon.
37.1 Mme MISSAMBO (Gabon) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs,  permettez-moi, tout d'abord, de joindre ma voix à celles des brillants orateurs qui m'ont précédée à cette  tribune, pour adresser au Président de la Conférence générale, les vives félicitations de la délégation de la  République gabonaise, pour le choix judicieux qui s'est porté sur sa personne, pour la conduite de nos travaux.  Sa parfaite connaissance des dossiers, servie par une longue et fructueuse expérience de l'UNESCO, nous paraît  constituer le gage le meilleur, pour le succès attendu de la présente session. Je tiens également à rendre un  hommage mérité au Président du Conseil exécutif pour le travail remarquable accompli par cet organe.
37.2 Nos compliments vont également au Directeur général de l'UNESCO, pour sa grande sollicitude à  l'égard du gouvernement de mon pays, pour son souci constant de la présence et du rayonnement de notre  Organisation au sein des Etats membres. Je voudrais enfin adresser au Secrétariat, toutes nos félicitations pour  la qualité technique de la documentation mise à la disposition des Etats membres ainsi que pour la réduction  notable de son volume. En effet, par ces temps où les difficultés financières n'épargnent ni les Etats membres ni  notre Organisation, croyez-bien que notre délégation apprécie hautement cet effort d'économie !
37.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, le budget qui est soumis à notre  appréciation semble avoir été élaboré sur la base d'une croissance négative. Cette prudence nous paraît de bon  aloi, d'autant qu'elle s'accompagne d'une perspective de réduction de certaines actions, aujourd'hui non  prioritaires, au profit d'une augmentation des crédits destinés aux champs majeurs de programme. D'avance,  nous nous réjouissons du gain en matière de coopération internationale, et tout particulièrement de coopération  Sud-Sud, que ne manquera pas de générer le développement des actions proposées dans le document 26 C/5.
37.4  Honorables délégués, s'agissant des perspectives d'amélioration des systèmes éducatifs dans les Etats  membres, la délégation gabonaise fonde beaucoup d'espoir dans la mise en oeuvre des actions proposées au titre  du champ majeur de programme I, intitulé "L'éducation et l'avenir”. Comme l'ont souligné des orateurs avant  moi, notamment le représentant de la France, nous estimons que la formation des hommes et des femmes, pour  en faire des citoyens conscients, demeure la base du développement et constitue une exigence capitale, de  laquelle dépend la prospérité d'une nation.
37.5 A cet égard, il me plaît d'affirmer du haut de cette tribune que l'éducation, depuis toujours, demeure  pour le Gabon et ses dirigeants un domaine de développement prioritaire, au même titre que la santé publique  et la construction des routes. Dans cette optique, le gouvernement de mon pays est aujourd'hui engagé dans le  recyclage du personnel enseignant du primaire, dans le recrutement et la formation des inspecteurs et des  professeurs des disciplines scientifiques du secondaire, dans la réforme de l'Ecole normale supérieure. Au  bénéfice de meilleures conditions de travail, aussi bien des enseignants que des élèves, et à la satisfaction des  parents d'élèves, l'Etat gabonais conduit actuellement un ambitieux programme de construction et d'équipement  scolaires.
37.6 — Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, les actions dont je viens de faire état sont,  pour l'essentiel, des mesures sectorielles, à la fois d'attaque et d'impulsion, visant toutes à favoriser  l'indispensable adaptation de notre système éducatif aux mutations actuelles. À propos du champ majeur de  programme I, notre délégation note la pertinence des actions contenues dans le programme I.1, intitulé "Vers  une éducation de base pour tous”. C'est notamment le cas du renforcement de la coopération avec le PNUD,  avec l'UNICEF, avec d'autres partenaires tels que la Banque mondiale, pour l'identification, la gestion, la mise  au point et l'exécution des projets, au profit de la réalisation des objectifs fondamentaux de l'éducation de base.  Bien que la scolarisation des enfants en âge scolaire soit effective au Gabon depuis plusieurs années, le  gouvernement de mon pays sollicitera l'assistance technique de ces organismes, pour le renforcement et  l'amplification de sa politique dans ce secteur sensible. Cette assistance portera, par exemple, sur la révision des  programmes en vue de promouvoir de façon soutenue le processus de démocratisation de la vie politique  actuellement en cours au Gabon.
37.7 S'agissant du sous-programme 1.2.2, consacré à la promotion de l'enseignement supérieur dans les  États membres, nous souhaitons que les actions qui y sont prévues, et qui concernent notamment le niveau  d'enseignement, soient renforcées. Dans cette perspective, nous accueillons favorablement l'idée de création de  chaires UNESCO. Nous suggérons en outre que les mécanismes de formation postuniversitaires soient étendus  aux Etats membres les plus démunis, comme c'est aujourd'hui le cas pour deux pays d'Afrique centrale et  d'Afrique occidentale.
378 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais ajouter que les propositions  relatives à l'éducation préventive nous agréent. Avec toutefois cette réserve qu'elles ne sauraient se limiter aux  thèmes certes d'actualité, comme l'action préventive et la lutte contre la drogue et le sida, mais devraient être  étendues à l'éducation relative à l'environnement, à la population, et même à l'éducation à la vie familiale. En  tout état de cause, chacun de nous conçoit bien que l'efficacité de toutes les actions de programme envisagées ici  dépend, pour une part déterminante de facteurs politiques, dont le catalyseur demeure sans aucun doute  l'ouverture de la vie politique au multipartisme, ce dernier conçu comme nouvelle étape vers la démocratie.
37.9 A cet égard, le Gabon s'est engagé dans la voie du changement démocratique. D'abord par  l'organisation en mars de l'année dernière, d'une conférence nationale, laquelle à abouti à l'instauration d'un  Etat démocratique. Le nouvel état gabonais se félicite de l'adoption d'une constitution qui consacre la fin du  parti unique et l'avènement d'un Etat de droit et de liberté, de l'élection d'une Assemblée nationale multipartite,  de la création d'une Cour constitutionnelle, de la création d'un Conseil national de la communication. Toutes  ces institutions auront pour rôle de garantir au citoyen l'exercice du droit, de la liberté et de la démocratie. C'est  pour cette raison fondamentale que le gouvernement gabonais a révisé et réintroduit l'éducation civique, au  service des idéaux de liberté, de tolérance, de solidarité et de paix, tant dans le primaire que dans le secondaire,  comme matière obligatoire.
37.10 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, comme d'autres régions du monde, les  pays en développement s'intéressent grandement au sport. Nous approuvons donc, les programmes de  promotion de l'éducation physique et sportive, et souhaitons qu'ils soient diversifiés et renforcés par des  dotations budgétaires plus importantes.
37.11 Jen viens au champ majeur de programme II. La science pour le progrès et l'environnement demeure  une préoccupation de développement importante pour notre pays. C'est pourquoi les actions de programme  présentées ici nous paraissent éminemment positives, et nous les appuyons.
37.12 Honorables délégués, la lutte pour la protection de notre environnement et pour la sauvegarde de  l'espace écologique est synonyme aujourd'hui de lutte pour la survie de l'espèce humaine. C'est pourquoi nous  nous félicitons de l'accent particulier mis sur les problèmes de l'environnement de même que des propositions  contenues dans le projet de coopération intersectorielle et interinstitutions concernant l'éducation et  l'information relatives à l'environnement. Ainsi que nous venons de ie dire, la maîtrise de la science et de la  technologie, le respect de l'environnement, sont des facteurs essentiels du progrès des nations, mais cela ne  pourrait être déterminant si l'on ne prenait pas en compte la dimension scientifique et technologique dans les  plans de développement. Nous souhaiterions que l'UNESCO sensibilise davantage les pays en développement à  ce problème.
37.13 S'agissant de la culture, le Département ministériel compétent de mon pays a, depuis plusieurs années,  accompli un certain nombre d'actions dignes d'intérêt : adoption de plans de développement, création  d'institutions, singulièrement dans le domaine de la protection du droit d'auteur. C'est pourquoi, nous  approuvons l'ensemble des actions prévues au titre du champ majeur de programme III. Mais je me bornerai à  évoquer spécifiquement quelques propositions touchant au patrimoine physique et non physique. L'Afrique  dispose d'un petit nombre de spécialistes dans le domaine de la production cinématographique et télévisuelle.  Pourtant nos émissions sont envahies de programmes étrangers en provenance des pays industrialisés et il  n'existe pratiquement pas d'échanges de programmes entre pays de la région. L'un des principaux problèmes  qui se posent donc à la télévision africaine est celui de la production. Quant au cinéma, l'un des obstacles  majeurs à son développement est la distribution. Ainsi, tout en reconnaissant la pertinence des actions destinées  à l'assistance à la formation, nous pensons qu'un accent tout particulier doit être mis sur la production  audiovisuelle et la distribution cinématographique. Nous proposons donc que les activités prévues dans ce  champ majeur de programme sur ces aspects aient un caractère prioritaire.
37,14 Mesdames et Messieurs, en Afrique, particulièrement dans les pays francophones, l'édition et le livre  n'ont pas toujours bénéficié de la place qu'ils devraient occuper dans le développement cuiturel et cela n'a pas  favorisé la promotion de la lecture, le livre - généralement importé - étant une denrée chère. Aussi accueillons-  nous favorablement la stratégie régionale et le mécanisme sous-régional du livre qui seront mis en place avec le  concours des ONG et des organisations de coopération multilatérale en vue de promouvoir une politique de  l'édition dans nos pays. J'émets le voeu à cet égard que le projet lancé en Afrique centrale conjointement par  l'OUA et l'UNESCO, dont la première phase est une enquête sur les livres et l'édition, puisse aboutir.
37.15 Monsieur le Président, le nouvel ordre mondial de l'information a soulevé en son temps nombre de  controverses dans notre Organisation et dans les médias internationaux. Ce phénomène a été généré par les  divers sens que les uns et les autres donnaient, suivant leur culture, au concept d'un nouvel ordre mondial de  l'information et de la communication. Heureusement pour nous, un consensus que j'espère définitif, a été obtenu  au cours de la vingt-cinquième session, grâce à cette formule magique : "la libre circulation de l'information au  niveau international aussi bien que national, ainsi qu'une diffusion plus large et mieux équilibrée de  l'information, sans aucune entrave à la liberté d'expression." Il ressort des actions du champ majeur de  programme IV que c'est par une aide multiforme aux pays en développement que cet objectif est susceptible  d'être réalisé : aide à la formation dans les différents métiers de la communication, aide à l'équipement, aide à  l'élaboration des dispositions législatives, bref autant d'actions qui donnent des raisons d'espérer en l'avenir.  Néanmoins, la délégation gabonaise est quelque peu déçue de voir que le champ majeur de programme relatif à  la communication soit le seul à être affecté d'un montant de crédits en diminution par rapport à l'exercice  précédent. I! y a là comme une contradiction avec l'importance qu'on veut accorder à la communication.
37.16 Monsieur le Directeur général, vous déclarez dans l'introduction au Projet de programme et de budget  pour 1992-1993 que les femmes sont, avec les pays les moins avancés et les Etats membres de la région  d'Afrique, parmi les cibles privilégiées de l'action de l'Organisation, confirmant ainsi la volonté de celle-ci  d'apporter sa contribution à l'amélioration de la condition féminine. Nous ne pouvons qu'encourager l'UNESCO  à continuer dans cette voie, car, malgré les efforts entrepris de par le monde tant au plan international que  national en faveur de leur émancipation, les femmes restent les victimes de nombreuses inégalités dues à  l'environnement socioculturel et à leur nature. Beaucoup d'entre elles n'ont pas accès à l'éducation, manquent  de formation professionnelle, ignorent leurs droits ou n'osent pas les revendiquer. Le programme transversal
11   intitulé "Les femmes” contient des propositions qui ont trait à la formation, à la promotion des droits de la  femme, aux études prospectives. C'est pourquoi nous l'appuyons. Cependant nous aimerions appeler votre  attention, Monsieur le Directeur général, sur le caractère de plus en plus pauvre du programme Femmes. Nous  estimons que l'importance que revêtent vos propos introductifs dans le C/S et la portée du document C/15  concernant la contribution de l'UNESCO à l'amélioration de la condition des femmes ne trouvent pas de  traduction suffisante dans les actions de programme contenues aussi bien dans les différents champs majeurs  que dans le thème transversal - Les femmes. En conséquence, la délégation gabonaise propose que les actions à  définir dans le prochain Projet de programme et de budget tiennent largement compte des dispositions  contenues dans la résolution relative au thème transversal - Les femmes, adoptée à la vingt-cinquième session.
37.17 Monsieur le Président, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, notre planète a été  secouée par des bouleversements importants. Plusieurs régimes ont subi de profondes mutations, favorisant  ainsi le rapprochement des peuples. Cette secousse n'a pas manqué d'affecter le continent africain dont bon  nombre de pays sont passés ou sont en train de passer d'un système politique monolithique à la démocratie  pluraliste. Le nouveau paysage politique international nous autorise à espérer en l'avenir de l'humanité. II a  permis aux peuples et aux citoyens de proclamer désormais des valeurs fondamentales qui leur étaient  interdites : liberté, droits de l'homme, justice, prospérité. Dans ce contexte, nous exhortons la communauté  internationale à maintenir son soutien aux forces de progrès qui luttent pour l'avènement d'un Etat  démocratique et multiracial en Afrique du Sud. Nous saluons également les efforts déployés par les Etats-Unis  et l'URSS pour l'organisation d'une conférence de la paix au Proche-Orient. Ainsi, le champ majeur de  programme VII relatif à la contribution de l'UNESCO à la paix, aux droits de l'homme et à l'élimination de  toutes les formes de discrimination est plus que jamais d'actualité. Les actions qu'il propose doivent aider à  trouver des solutions à des situations se caractérisant par des violations de la paix et des droits de l'homme.
37.18 Monsieur le Président, je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans saluer l'arrivée de la Namibie, de la  Lettonie, de la Lituanie, de l'Estonie et de Tuvalu dans notre Organisation. Leur présence parmi nous ne peut  que renforcer la lutte de notre Organisation pour l'avènement d'une civilisation de paix et de justice, libérée de  l'ignorance, de la faim et de la maladie. Nous souhaitons que leur exemple soit suivi notamment par les pays  qui ont quitté l'Organisation il y a quelques années, et dont la contribution apportera sans nul doute un souffle  nouveau et favorisera des échanges plus fructueux entre les peuples, en vue de la redéfinition de nouvelles  solidarités internationales. Je vous remercie.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of Gabon and I give the floor to H.E. Mr Gilbert Midende, Minister  for Higher Education and Scientific Research and head of the delegation of Burundi.
39.1 = M. MIDENDE (Burundi) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, honorables chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi,  Monsieur le Président, de m'associer aux illustres personnalités qui m'ont précédé, pour féliciter M. Ogot de  son élection, pour féliciter son prédécesseur, M. Anwar Ibrahim, pour féliciter Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général pour la sagacité avec laquelle tous mènent à bon port le navire de notre  Organisation.
39.2 — Je voudrais également vous transmettre à tous, honorables délégués, les salutations des plus hautes  autorités burundaises, des artistes, des journalistes, de la jeunesse, des éducateurs ainsi que des milieux  scientifiques et universitaires burundais. Je voudrais vous dire que tous les Burundais placent, à juste titre  d'ailleurs, beaucoup d'espoir dans notre Organisation qui, dès sa création, s'est donnée comme noble mission la  coopération intellectuelle et éthique dans un monde qui venait d'être meurtri par une guerre des plus cruelles et  des plus dévastatrices.
39.3 Nous saluons enfin l'entrée à l'UNESCO de nouveaux Etats membres : la Lituanie, l'Estonie, la  Lettonie et Tuvalu.
394 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de  l'UNESCO, honorables délégués, depuis la fin de la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, il s'est  passé beaucoup de choses. Beaucoup d'événements ont bouleversé le monde. Ici, les barrières sont tombées,  ailleurs, les clivages se sont accentués et l'étau s'est refermé, de profonds déséquilibres sont nés. La  bipolarisation Est-Ouest, le face à face entre les deux superpuissances ont cédé la place à l'effondrement du  système communiste, sur le continent européen ; mais la montée des nationalismes ainsi que les différents types  d'exclusion exacerbée par des luttes interethniques ne vont pas sans entacher les libertés fondamentales de l'être  humain. Sur le continent africain et ailleurs, une lueur d'espoir pointe à l'horizon : la reconnaissance des  libertés fondamentales donne progressivement droit de cité à la démocratisation de la vie politique.
39.5 Malheureusement, Monsieur le Président, l'écart entre le Nord et le Sud s'aggrave et le fossé devient de  plus en plus profond ; les pays riches deviennent de plus en plus riches et les pays pauvres de plus en plus  pauvres. Et cela à cause d'un système profondément injuste de détérioration des termes de l'échange, avec son  corollaire qui s'appelle l'endettement. Cet état de choses contribue à un appauvrissement extrême d'une partie  du monde au moment même où, ailleurs, il y a surenchère et cynisme. Dans cet environnement international, la  problématique du continent africain devient aujourd'hui tragique. Le secrétaire exécutif de la Commission  économique pour l'Afrique, à qui je rends hommage, l'a suffisamment dit cet après-midi. C'est précisément ici  que je suis amené à me poser une question et à interpeller l'UNESCO : quel doit être le rôle de la communauté  internationale et de l'UNESCO, en particulier face à cette situation ?
396 Monsieur le Président, nous traversons une période particulièrement délicate ; l'UNESCO et ses Etats  membres doivent en prendre acte. La mission première de l'UNESCO, qui est de promouvoir la paix dans  l'esprit des hommes, la démocratie, la solidarité internationale et le développement, doit guider les relations  internationales.
39.7 L'UNESCO doit consolider sa place dans le système des Nations Unies et dans la coopération  interinstitutions. La solidarité mondiale devrait prévaloir sur la vision réductrice et utilitariste de certaines  agences ou de certains bailleurs de fonds. La vision éthique et humanitaire de la coopération doit primer sur  une conception trop économiste qui privilégie l'aspect commercial de la plupart des bailleurs. Je voudrais dire,  Monsieur le Président, que notre Organisation risque de perdre sa véritable place au sein du système des  Nations Unies si elle ne cherche pas à se repositionner dès à présent et faire en sorte que tous les Etats membres  puissent retrouver leurs préoccupations et placer leurs espérances dans l'UNESCO, comme l'a si bien dit ce  matin le chef de la délégation du Canada, Mme Monique Landry. À ce titre, nous sommes tous interpellés, les  organes dirigeants de notre Organisation en premier lieu.
398 — Monsieur le Président, il va sans dire que les réformes entreprises au sein de notre Organisation  devraient tenir compte de ce constat : à savoir que le monde traverse une période de fortes turbulences et de  profonds bouleversements caractérisés par des inégalités et des différences de toute nature. Aujourd'hui plus que  jamais, l'UNESCO devrait réaffirmer son rôle catalytique de coopération intellectuelle, parce que, comme le dit  si bien son Acte constitutif, "une paix fondée sur les seuls accords économiques et politiques des gouvernements  ne saurait entraîner l'adhésion unanime, durable et sincère des peuples et que, par conséquent, cette paix doit  être établie sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité".
399 Par conséquent, Monsieur le Président, l'UNESCO doit garder son renom de forum mondial de  réflexion élevée sur les problèmes touchant l'éducation, la science et la culture. Toute réforme qui viserait à  vider l'UNESCO de son essence tendrait à fermer à l'humanité la voie de l'avenir et de l'espérance. À ce sujet,  vous me permettrez de dire que j'ai quelque appréhension quant aux contradictions qui pourraient naître des  actuelles propositions de réformes, notamment celles visant à modifier le statut des membres et la composition  du Conseil exécutif de l'UNESCO, voire même la fréquence des réunions de cet organe directeur de  l'Organisation. Nous voudrions joindre notre voix à tous ceux qui pensent que cet organe devrait garder son  caractère intellectuel et être à même de rassembler les plus hautes personnalités du domaine de l'éducation, des  sciences et de la culture. Quant à la proposition allemande d'un forum de l'UNESCO, nous y souscrivons à  condition que ce forum reste un groupe de réflexion consultatif et temporaire, qui n'entraîne aucune incidence  budgétaire et qui serve à appuyer les études du Conseil exécutif et peut-être à orienter les décisions que la  Conférence générale serait amenée à prendre. Par contre, nous émettons des réserves quant à un rapport  mondial sur la culture et le développement dont les contours ne sont pas encore bien définis et dont les  stratégies d'élaboration pourraient certes grever le budget de l'UNESCO.
39.10 Monsieur le Président, la question de la décentralisation nous préoccupe grandement tant il est vrai  que la visibilité de l'UNESCO dans les Etats membres en dépend. Les commissions nationales sont le reflet  naturel de la coopération entre l'UNESCO et les Etats membres. Aussi les commissions nationales doivent-elles  être l'alpha et l'oméga de cette coopération, aidées dans cette tâche par les experts nationaux dans les domaines  de compétence de l'organisation. La décentralisation de l'UNESCO ne saurait être effective si les problèmes  spécifiques des sous-régions ne sont pas pris en compte, si un fichier de spécialistes et experts locaux n'est pas  dressé et si les échanges de données d'expériences et d'informations entre spécialistes appartenant aux  différentes régions du monde ne sont pas accrus. C'est là, estimons-nous, un moyen essentiel de conserver et de  renforcer les liens entre l'UNESCO et la communauté des éducateurs, scientifiques, artistes et journalistes des  Etats membres.
39.11 Monsieur le Président, avant de dire un mot du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993,  vous me permettrez de saluer les activités déjà réalisées par l'UNESCO dans le sens du renforcement de la  démocratie dans les Etats membres. Je salue aussi et surtout la stratégie adoptée par l'UNESCO, à savoir la  prise en compte de la dimension culturelle dans le processus de paix, de démocratie et de développement.  Monsieur le Président, cette journée du 21 octobre coïncide avec l'entrée en vigueur, 11 y a cinq ans, de la  Charte africaine des droits de l'homme. Je profite de cette occasion pour former le voeu qu'en ce moment où de  nouveaux défis se posent à l'humanité, en ce moment où de nouveaux murs risquent de se dresser dans les  esprits, l'UNESCO puisse continuer à jouer son rôle d'avant-garde dans le processus de démocratisation, dans  les Etats membres d'Afrique, les Etats qui sont engagés irréversiblement dans un processus profond de  promotion des droits de l'homme, ce passage obligé pour la démocratisation de la vie publique. En particulier,  Monsieur le Président, en remerciant le Directeur général de l'UNESCO pour les actions déjà menées dans le  sens de la promotion des droits de l'homme et de la démocratie dans mon pays, nous voudrions préconiser avec  force une action encore accrue de l'UNESCO en faveur de l'éducation à la paix, aux droits de l'homme et à la  démocratie dans notre pays. Nous laissons aux experts le soin d'approfondir cette question en commission.
39.12 Monsieur le Président, dans ce cadre, mon pays qui poursuit sa marche vers la démocratisation de ses  institutions, vient d'entreprendre également un vaste programme de rapatriement, d'accueil et de réinsertion  sociale de toutes ses filles et fils réfugiés. Nous espérons que l'UNESCO nous viendra en aide pour l'exécution  de ce programme, en ce qui concerne ses domaines de compétence.
39.13 En matière de démocratisation, un rapport sur le projet de constitution et de démocratisation des  institutions et de la vie politique du Burundi vient d'être établi. I! est aujourd'hui soumis au débat populaire du  sommet à la base. Seul, le peuple burundais sera souverain s'agissant de l'édification de son avenir. Notre voeu  est que l'UNESCO puisse contribuer à l'instauration d'une société juste et démocratique dans notre pays.
39.14 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, à propos du Programme et budget pour 1992-
1993, nous nous réjouissons de la qualité de ce document qui respecte l'esprit et la lettre du Troisième plan à  moyen terme de l'UNESCO. Nous remercions à cet égard le Directeur général de l'UNESCO et tout le  personnel du Secrétariat. Vous me permettrez néanmoins d'émettre deux observations d'ordre général au sujet  de ce programme : premièrement, il subsiste toujours un certain décalage entre les ambitions du programme de  l'UNESCO et les moyens de sa réalisation - cet état de choses a des conséquences évidentes et négatives sur la  crédibilité de notre Organisation. Deuxièmement, malgré un effort remarquable pour comprimer les dépenses  de personnel, il existe également un déséquilibre visible entre les budgets consentis pour l'exécution des  programmes et les dépenses de personnel.
39.15 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme I (L'éducation et l'avenir), il me plait de souligner -  que depuis la Conférence de Jomtien tenue en mars 1990, des efforts louables ont été faits dans le sens du  respect du plan d'action adopté lors de cette rencontre mondiale. Nous voudrions toutefois faire remarquer que,  pour les pays en développement, il n'est pas aisé de mener de front deux activités prioritaires, à savoir la  scolarisation généralisée et la lutte contre l'analphabétisme des adultes, surtout dans un contexte économique  défavorable. De plus, des mesures appropriées doivent être prises par les Etats membres pour le maintien des  acquis de l'éducation de base pour tous. Il est donc indispensable que, parallèlement au développement de  l'éducation de base, un enseignement extrascolaire, professionnel et technique de qualité puisse être organisé.
39.16 Monsieur le Président, si nous sommes conscients que les crédits proposés pour la mise en oeuvre des  activités relatives à l'enseignement supérieur connaissent une augmentation substantielle, nous devons  néanmoins reconnaître que ce secteur devrait enregistrer un essor au moins proportionnel, sinon égal à celui de  l'enseignement de base et de l'enseignement secondaire, tant il est vrai que les pays en développement doivent
440   aujourd'hui plus qu'hier avoir une compréhension exacte de notre monde en métamorphose. Dans cette  perspective nous soumettrons des projets nationaux et régionaux pour lesquels nous souhaiterions bénéficier  d'un soutien régulier de la part de l'UNESCO. Il s'agit notamment du Conseil africain et malgache pour  l'enseignement supérieur - le CAMES - dont nous demandons la création et de la signature d'une convention de  coopération avec l'UNESCO.
39.17 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme II (La science pour le progrès et l'environnement),  nous sommes satisfaits de la manière dont les priorités ont été retenues. Nous voudrions cependant insister sur  certains aspects qui intéressent particulièrement les pays africains : il s'agit tout d'abord du transfert des  connaissances et des technologies des pays développés vers les pays en développement, transfert devant s'opérer  grâce à une coopération plus fructueuse et des actions concrètes ; il s'agit également de l'éducation à  l'environnement visant surtout les femmes et la jeunesse, catégories de la population constituant le facteur  principal de protection et/ou de destruction de l'environnement dans les sociétés africaines eu égard à leur statut  social ; il s'agit enfin de la recherche-développement, avec comme objectif principal la réorientation des thèmes  de recherche vers des thèmes ayant des rapports directs avec la productivité.
39.18 Monsieur le Président, nous sommes persuadés que les projets "Décennie" présentés par la région  Afrique sont de nature à améliorer les relations interculturelles, mais aussi à faire rayonner la culture africaine  à l'intérieur et à l'extérieur du continent. Il s'agit notamment des projets des Routes du fer, du Mémorial de  Gorée et de la Route des esclaves. En plus de ces projets d'envergure internationale, nous voudrions encore une  fois faire appel à l'UNESCO pour mener des actions susceptibles d'établir solidement la culture démocratique.  Un projet concret sera soumis en temps opportun par mon pays.
39.19 Afin qu'une certaine logique soit respectée, le programme "Priorité Afrique” devrait davantage refléter  les priorités, les échéances ainsi que les stratégies voulues pour mener à bien le programme que l'UNESCO a  spécifiquement destiné au continent africain.
39.20 En ce qui conceme "La communication au service de l'humanité”, nous sommes très satisfaits des  performances du PIDC, Nous voudrions proposer qu'à l'intérieur de ce programme, soient prévues des activités  spécifiques sur la circulation de l'information dans les communautés de base et son impact sur le  développement.
39.21 Monsieur le Président, je ne voudrais pas terminer sans insister sur le caractère fondamental des  sciences sociales et des études prospectives conçues comme sciences transversales et en faveur d'un monde en  mutation rapide et permanente. Ces sciences devraient nous permettre d'anticiper sur les défis actuels. Ces  sciences conçues comme transversales devraient nous aider à élucider ces questions qui restent présentes à notre  esprit et notamment : la paix internationale ne continue-t-elle pas à subir de rudes épreuves, et jusqu'à quand la  démocratie, la paix, la compréhension internationale sont-elles possibles dans un contexte d'inégalité et dans la  pauvreté de certains ? Le nouvel ordre mondial est-il faisable et sous quelles conditions ?
39.22 Monsieur le Président, nous sommes optimistes. La culture, l'éducation et la science peuvent et doivent  contribuer à renforcer la compréhension et l'équilibre mondial. L'UNESCO doit donc être le centre de ces  préoccupations, les Etats membres doivent croire à cet idéal et au-delà des mots, ils doivent veiller à la  clairvoyance et à la crédibilité de notre Organisation. C'est une question de volonté. Je vous remercie.
3acexaHHH HcuepnaH. Onnako OuHa U3 qenerauuä oOpaTHIacb C INpocbGON NMperocTaBHTb €H CIOBO JUIS  oTseTa. Ilepex TeM, KaK IpeNOcTaBHTb CHOBO ITOH JléslerauxH, 4 XOTEJ Obl HAMOMHHTb O TOM, YUTO  Mpexcexatens Kondepeniun Ha TepBOM 3aCel[aHHH BbIHEC pelmeHHe, YTO IIONOÔHBIE BbICTYIIEHHH MOTYT  JJITHTbCH He Gonee, YeM TPH MHHYThl. SI npejocrasiasio CIOBO feneranvu Kdrocnasuu.
(40) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the head of the delegation of Burundi. We have worked through the list of speakers for today's  meeting. However, one delegation has asked to exercise the right of reply. Before giving the floor to the  delegation in question, I should like to remind you that the President of the Conference, at the first meeting,  decided that statements of this sort should last no more than three minutes. I now give the floor to the delegation  of Yugoslavia.
41.1 M. BOZOVIC (Yougoslavie) :  Monsieur le Président, le ministre de la culture, de la jeunesse et des sports d'Albanie vient de vous  présenter une image absolument fausse et inventée de toutes pièces de ce qui se passe dans le domaine de  l'enseignement dans une partie de la République de Serbie, notamment dans la province autonome du Kosovo-  Metohija. Eu égard À l'esprit et au niveau de notre débat dans cette auguste assemblée, je m'abstiendrai de  répondre aux accusations ; je ne profiterai pas non plus de votre bonté et de votre indulgence, et je ne parlerai  pas des choses qui sont en dehors du domaine de l'UNESCO et de notre débat. Je passe aussi sur les arguments  formulés en matière de droit international. Je me limiterai donc à la présentation des faits et des faits  seulement, qui pourraient être vérifiés par tous ceux qui le désirent.
41.2 Dans la province autonome du Kosovo-Metohija, où vivent 14 % de la population de Serbie,  l'enseignement est assuré en albanais dans les écoles primaires, secondaires et techniques et à l'Université de  Pristina. Cette université, que le professeur Capotorti désignait comme une exception, avait en 1988-1989
25.344 étudiants albanais, qui faisaient leurs études exclusivement en albanais. Au Kosovo, sur
10.000 habitants, 197 étaient inscrits à l'université contre 114 en Yougoslavie. H y avait 63.842 élèves albanais  dans les écoles secondaires et 303.035 dans les écoles primaires. Dans ces écoles aussi, l'enseignement était  exclusivement en albanais. Les plans et les programmes d'enseignement dans ces écoles ont été adoptés dans le  passé par des organes de la province autonome du Kosovo, où les Albanais étaient majoritaires, et ces  programmes véhiculaient un puissant endoctrinement politique séparatiste. Le résultat a été celui-ci : un  isolement presque absolu de la minorité albanaise dans la province autonome du Kosovo-Metohija par rapport  aux autres peuples de Yougoslavie. Les diplômés de l'Université de Pristina ne parlent, dans leur très grande  majorité, que l'albanais et ne peuvent pas trouver de travail en dehors du Kosovo-Metohija et de l'Albanie, où  ils ne sont pas reçus.
41.3 Monsieur le Président, pour répondre à cette situation, les autorités compétentes de Serbie ont procédé  à l'élaboration de nouveaux programmes et plans d'enseignement. La coopération des enseignants du Kosovo a  été sollicitée, mais ceux-ci l'ont refusée. De nouveau, ils ont insisté pour enseigner en accord avec le  programme adopté par la majorité albanaise. Sous la pression des partis politiques, les élèves de la communauté  albanaise boycottent les écoles ; les écoles ne sont pas fermées, elles sont boycottées, Monsieur le Président, ce  qui n'est pas la même chose.
414 Monsieur le Président, puisque vous ne me donnez que trois minutes et que je ne veux pas abuser de  votre indulgence, je dois dire que ce que les Albanais veulent, ce n'est pas l'enseignement en langue albanaise,  ils l'ont. Ils veulent la République albanaise et en cela, ils ont l'appui et l'aide de l'Albanie, y compris celle du  ministre de la jeunesse et de l'éducation. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
42. IIPECE/ATEHb:  [Toctynuna mpocb6a yBaxxaeMOro jenerata AMGaHHH BbICTYMHTb B CBA3H C MpeAIECTBYIOLNHM  BbICTYIMIIEHHEM. 51 xoTen Obl HAIIOMHHTb YBaXKacMOMYy Jiesicraty AG6aHHH, YTO B TAKOM CIyYaë pelreHHeM  Hawero IIpeycerarers paspelleHO BbICTyMIEHKE He Gonee eM B TedelMe ByX MHHYT. 51 npejocrasisiio  Bam CIOBO, yBAXaEMbIÂ jJlesierat Andanuu.
(42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I have received a request from the delegate of Albania who wishes to take the floor in connection with  the last speech. I should like to remind the delegate in question that, in accordance with the decision taken by our  President, such statements should last no more than two minutes. I now give the floor to the delegate of Albania.
43.1 Mr PITARKA (Albania):  Thank you, Mr President. We had no intention of taking the floor at this late hour, but we see that the  Yugoslav delegation has presented quite a different picture of the reality in Kosovo and other areas of  Yugoslavia where the Albanian population lives. In the declaration of the Yugoslav delegation, we perceive a  tendency and a futile effort to cover up the well-known truth, the sad and great truth about the lamentable  situation of education, culture and science with regard to the Albanian population in Kosovo and in other  regions, which was very briefly touched upon in the statement by the head of the Albanian delegation.
43.2 In these present days, when world public opinion is witnessing with great wonder, worry and deep  indignation how the innocent population and the monuments of culture, art, religion, and so on are being  bombed and shelled upon the orders of the Serbian generals in Dubrovnik, how can it not believe the abundant  facts about the great violation of the political, social and cultural rights of the Albanians in Kosovo, the
442   barbarous aggression being waged by the chauvinists of Greater Serbia against the language and the ancient  traditional cultural heritage of the Albanian population in Kosovo?
43.3 The head of the Albanian delegation presented the viewpoints of Albania on some of the fundamental  issues and principles which the Albanian population in Yugoslavia is entitled to, like the rest of the other  peoples of Yugoslavia. He referred to but a few and most recent cases of grave and systematic violations of the  rights in education, culture and science of the Albanian population at the hands of the regime of occupation by  Serbia in that region. Certainly, we would need a lot of time to present the full spectrum of the Serbian  aggression against the educational, cultural and scientific institutions and the intelligentsia of the Albanian  population in Kosovo, not to speak of the systematic and flagrant violation of the national constitutional rights  of that population,
43.4 The Yugoslav delegation may have been surprised to hear the head of our delegation raise his voice,  even slightly, because they have been used to silence or mere lip service with regard to the defence of Albanian  rights in Kosovo on the part of the former communist regime of Albania: but that time of silence is already  gone, for ever and ever.
43.5 We are the representatives of the Albanian people, fully entitled to raise up our voices in support of the  constitutional rights of the Albanian population in Yugoslavia, which - by the way - is not a national minority,  as the Serbians claim, but half of the Albanian nation, a population of more than 3 million people that  comprises the third largest population in Yugoslavia after the Serbians and the Croatians.
43.6 Mr President, and I am finishing, if there is no problem in Kosovo, in education and culture, and if  Albanians have their own schools, then let Serbia allow and accept the UNESCO delegation and mission in  Kosovo to see how the reality is at present. Thank you.
44. TIPE/CE/[ATEJBb:  brarogapio Bac. /leneraiuns Kroctasux nonpocuna IlpefoOCTaBUThL €H CJOBO AH OTheTa. 51  NPEAOCTABISAIO €À 3TO CHOBO. FTO OY/CT MOCINENHEE BhICTYITICHHE B CBA3H C TOM NPOGIIEMON B COOTBETCTBHH  C HMCIOIIHMCH peureHHeM IIpencerare.s. ITporny Bac.
(44) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. The delegation of Yugoslavia has asked to exercise the right of reply, which is granted. This  will be the last statement on this question, in accordance with the decision of the President. Mr Bozovic, you now  have the floor.
45. Mr BOZOVIC (Yugoslavia):  Mr President, just a few brief remarks; we will say more in the competent commission. First, the  repetition of untruths does not make them come true. Next, we have never refused to Albania - contrary to what  Albania has refused to us - to interest itself in the Albanian minority in Kosovo. And finally, on a personal  note, I come from Kosovo-Metohija; I cannot take my grandchildren there to show them where I was born  because I do not want to risk their security. Thank you, Mr President.
46. TIPEACEMATE/B:  Braroxapro Bac. [Tepe] TeM, Kak 3aKPpbITb 3AC€/[aHHE, si XOTE.1 Obl IIPEHOCTABHTb CHOBO IH OObABIE-  Hus cexpeTapro. IIpoiry Bac.
(46) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. Before closing the meeting, I shall call on the Secretary, who has an announcement to make.
47. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vous rappelle que le Secrétaire général de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies, M. Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, rendra visite à la Conférence générale vers
16 heures, demain 22 octobre. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
48. IMPEACEJATEJMbB:  Braromapio Bac. 3acefjaline OÔOBABIHETCA 3AKPbITbIM.
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. The meeting is now closed.  La séance est levée à 20 h.10  The meeting rose at 8.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 20.10