Treizième séance plénière
22 octobre 1991, à 15 h.05  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. SOU HEUN (République populaire démocratique de Corée)  Thirteenth plenary meeting
22 October 1991 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr OGOT (Kenya)  later: Mr SOU HEUN (People's Democratic Republic of Korea)  Decimotercera sesiôn plenaria
3aTeM: T-H Cy Xeyn (Kopeñckas Haponno-JlemoxpaTnueckas Pecny6iuka)  ade CUE Loladl Lula  Sed] ans YL 00 Tell AAA JOY 5/50 505T YY  (L325) wsdl spud + tl!  (Rall sharad) La 998 Lggtas) Gah pue pend] 3  HT=Kex
481   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXJIEHWE BOMPOCOB OBIIEH MOMHTHKH (npoxorxenne)  (ali) La laJI Calan) ZA Le  BAR C5)
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the thirteenth plenary meeting and give the floor to the first  speaker on our list, Professor Abdelhadi Boutaleb, Director-General of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization.
(9S) — LUS plat] y Tas yall Loaded LM) dle gor sad) NN  giaiatll Galall Gut; saad] iGupdiadly Gualad! pladl 50511 Guts saad pia JE aa AUS pos  Ulial pS pais] of punts) ganas Fol J Ismail 1 Saba (Sa chaud Glass] pled! grd) aa 51 sd!  oualead | Sauget] Lucas; pSulassl le AL aly Lalas potadly Las 0) Tea AI Ge Dos (pads oe  Laseuall Lael) a SENS gladly Tall] Lad pe p< sue Toll) adn paddy Sie agde Is  Ja oS plaid 5d page VIA) dunt) pSaulis Les ph g)l slay e150 pS Lp pSLUT Sl Saal  oA Lali! als 40031 LS paasilly Taal Usa pb Ja pda p Le (sd padi ASSIS a BS Judy elias Uys  ELU citine Cala slacly slaw 5 Jy Ca pâ AN 350d) sia CaaS sliced  PER TPRUSURRT. 2S BWCT FTI JU SN JEEP speulf puis rca Vppis pie FCI IC pu a5 dl (ss NN  Le gandl oli) lye duc dash] pAYI SNS y pal ora Ge pol US3AS) AI) sua Bald) diy es  cra algue La SILy Laat) 13a JISS sip pdladl i Taal) oak LowaSs aly AINSI sta IT dul)  Oy AL of US ol pani] alld i candle Il LA UN Tied dona a of LAL Blab) sae Sia  Load Jym All L3kl Jlael auto le punis Là Laall 13a (3 baglay sand) ous oF ni a  déslans lis oad?) JL, Lal Laas ps Lp as LaasalST ud eS 5 Lis Gala Cali pi Cradle Jo cpa]  lag) Wali) sue Sons cael 135 Ala) Sas) ells sas) Jud faaly Legs OEIL pla] LA gai Se  a osiall Jas saan waSTy Ba lodl club] GUSH Last? Le yaad) pes le Jalal) annals JS Gay gall!  ia Gleb cable Gl Bama sl) Tadll Lay Je WE clint] gn oa CS 3 Gd LES She DS  ALAIN 3 alkal)  hss al) lista! Lealios call Fla par ¥ lo 650 Gish Ge pl3a00 Vin 0 ages) guna YY  Wasi le prey ele JS; TGA, palally Taal Toast] Lalisll 3 Jans lly 3aadll pal Tashi  (hai pisse Logsdon Opal Ja Le alicl Ge 5Scud ya) pa OFF aad listed] 038 CSSS shy (aay  seal ae 3 EAST Al eli AU a LS ide sal of VV Lali] ales han V5 Cigale ony 53890  Oma Lsljally gel l postin sladel 1500 pooled] sda iis pd] dal Ga Haale 50a sud! ald)  SF pls, JS Lila Ÿ Gy ius (550 (ll UE ay glued) lin a Lal 551 oF asl LS 53d) pS pass G 76  yk Ge Loli Glan wld ob haa GF 3 dal pe a Usa JS 5500 atees das glad) lia  GO Gash punish Ga Gaia dl y Gall] A LLL Ll) ia Wal) Gos sao 3) pad] Gi ai S  asa amd] 43 paglMf aia 3aisal Typ ail cils REY Ga Glaa of 3S S51 51 J cash LS JEU  Lad cl wold) Le gai se le Lean pete ST goad sadly Lal sd pg pia  Es A enails gates oll lS shu Sy 5505 48 gS) pe Laas All wld] BG. of Ÿ,f  V0 A5 SUN 5 Saath eal tagline bod] NS 55 claw pad la Jal Gaal PUIS PL Ïl a
482   Aalsadl Jo sand las le Girall ada  pass 3S sally pS] os plait Lal dl Lona gl uns al WEY) 03g) (gym Page less SO  Ur Jalal] Ge Lies of oan SAI lei) le ppd) bd alld Ga SUAËIE Lily Lpule pSesill (aan  ia 54 sait Gla JalSal 350 Ge dahon AS Lid pe 130g gala] à Laddall 31,300 es pps 13) Lali SAUT  oi Waals seg pe Wally a1 Tan lll pail) ps le Cum za dad) Hig Hey iru s3s 4a 53)  Se Load ada Lidl aby pail) Lalaaly had al ells Gains, Gude gals le Jsball goby)  oF ld! Load Tekin of L,Sial) Thal) Luklad) AUS Jha Tals COST ly (5581 SLusoÿe pa Liddle  iy (seas) poladly BGA, Losall Toad) AMI S53), GAGE Galait) US, Jie Loan) cols  sudan) Unues Geualy Logpay Bllael a 0Sar Le ail SUSUNU Juvw Jusil pa gall 13a 5 Lolay  aes AI AIN pa ASS Ÿ Alls slaeY) Gls ish Ge Lab puns cad Tegan) TU s5l540 Jan  Lbs, Lola yak  Saganll Lhd) fray 54 gid) Vin Ga Lata 356 ST 5 hall (st alall Lans iuel L131, y,  ole paid Lubin slaïol jue Jou) aad) wld Lass) clibee ob Laald¥) eau SAN dial A Wall  Lad gall Logan) alles GUT by Sus) sal Ll pe Lal gad! 138 Gilgen J) JAVA) prea a of LAS)  ole Gis esl Al albania?) Gas AS LA 05165 hao of fladl pled) Lao là ages Ale pls (5  da 55 9 lag Ladd Lb da orally dala que Lada old Lal dl Glia pad 55 se Lule SLI Le EU pds  La pail) Lag) FROM sad (AY La sudl Gala) aa dus 555 JAI) Joo WS Go Salad) 52505 sal ssa)  JSUT la FSU LA pu oa LAST
(2.1) Mr BOUTALEB (ISESCO) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to begin, Mr President, by extending  to you on my own behalf and on behalf of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO)  my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-sixth session of the UNESCO General  Conference. I would like, on this occasion, to wish you every success in the difficult and weighty task entrusted to  you by your colleagues, the ministers and heads of delegation. Your election comes as a well-deserved recognition  of your qualities as a seasoned Statesman and of your competence as a veteran educator. May I also express my  congratulations and best wishes to the members of this session's Bureau as well as to the chairpersons and  members of the bureaux of the various committees and commissions.
(2.2) Mr President, a little over a year and a half ago, education specialists met in Jomtien, Thailand, on the  initiative of four major United Nations agencies, in order to draw the attention of the international community to  the alarming dimensions which the problem of illiteracy had taken. The meeting was a success not only because  so many countries participated but also because such a variety of organizations took part in one way or another.  ISESCO, as one may expect, played its part in this World Conference on Education for All. Indeed, it not only  participated in the proceedings of the Conference but was also involved, in its material organization and even
13   submitted a programme specific to the Islamic world. That programme had been adopted by the ISESCO General  Conference one day before the World Conference. In this way ISESCO gave a concrete demonstration of the  readiness of the Muslim community to support a constructive initiative and ensured, at the same time, the  representation of the South, as it was one of the few organizations [from that Hemisphere] - if not the only one -  to have co-sponsored the World Conference.
(2.3) Our involvement, Mr President, attests to the dynamic nature of the relations we have been steadily  strengthening with the United Nations system; for example, there are plans for the joint implementation of some
40 projects with UNESCO. I want to use this opportunity to commend the measures taken by my eminent  colleague the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, to ensure that work begins on these projects as soon as your  General Conference adopts the programme and budget he has submitted. I must tell you that in a conversation this  morning we agreed that the ongoing co-operation between our two Organizations was growing stronger with every  new undertaking. I can assure you that the ISESCO General Conference, which will meet for its fourth session on
28 November, will devote special attention to our co-operative relations with UNESCO. I can assure you as well  that ISESCO's share of the funds needed for the implementation of these projects appears in the draft programme  and budget that I shall submit to our General Conference.
(2.4) Building on the solid relationship between UNESCO and ISESCO, which was consolidated and fortified  at the Jomtien Conference, a new dynamic has been set in motion. Thus other United Nations and OIC bodies  have been encouraged to support the joint implementation of a programme to promote ‘Basic education and  training for human resource development in Islamic countries’. The guidelines of this ambitious programme were  laid down at a meeting held at UNESCO Headquarters between 24 and 26 April 1991 with the participation of
15 United Nations and OIC bodies. UNDP has just given its approval for the appointment of an expert, who will  prepare the final version of the above programme, on the basis of the first draft prepared by ISESCO in  consultation with all partners. The final document will then be submitted to various potential sources of funds.
(2.5) Mr President, I made a point of giving several examples of the co-operative relations between ISESCO  and UNESCO, not so much to report on these relations as to highlight the benefit that could be derived from the  complementary nature of our activities, especially when the will to co-operate is so genuine. The cross-check of  our respective programmes and the joint execution of those programmes that seemed to be of common interest  was such a successful experience that we extended it to our relations with other bodies - both world organizations  such as WIPO and WHO and regional ones such as ACCT and ALECSO. We believe this to be the best way to  optimize our efforts and activities while rationalizing the use of the resources provided by our Member States,  which, as we all know, do not meet our aspirations and expectations.
(2.6) Even more important to us than this immediately profitable aspect is the establishment of the  commendable tradition of involving regional organizations in international development efforts through a policy  resolutely oriented towards partnership. There is good reason to believe that this is a sound approach, particularly  with the end of the Cold War and the global aspiration towards a new world order. If peace is to have a meaning,  the resources made available from disarmament should be allocated to the promotion of human well-being -  materially through the provision of the amenities of life, and morally through the provision of education and  defence of the right to knowledge. Solidarity among all countries of the world should be strengthened and put,  first and foremost, to the service of the neediest regions and the ones that are most vulnerable to crises and  difficulties.
(2.7) Mr President, since the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of UNESCO, only two years ago,  so many breath-taking events have taken place and so many deep changes have occurred as to give the impression  that humanity has suddenly entered a new age. It is virtually impossible to tell for sure what ideological system  now prevails or what tomorrow will bring. We can only say that events are unfolding at a bewildering pace which  is simply beyond our understanding. This swift sequence of events seems to have acquired a logic and a dynamic  of its own which are increasingly challenging our powers of judgement and laying bare our inability to cope.  Nevertheless, I remain deeply convinced that there is still hope, that we are capable of still keeping pace with the  galloping course of events and that we may yet come up with a proper reaction to this unprecedented challenge -  but only if we succeed in strengthening the conviction that humanity is one and indivisible and that its salvation  lies in solidarity and coexistence. The time of go-it-alone adventurism and narrow chauvinism is now past.  Neither independence nor sovereignty can be protected by mere geographical borders any longer. Only the rule of  international law can provide that protection. This shield was conceived by the human mind and developed under  the aegis of international multilateral organizations, which must now be consolidated and strengthened in every  way, for the future of humanity depends on them. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Our  next speaker is Mr Frank Fahey, Minister of State for Education and head of the delegation of Ireland.
4.1 Mr FAHEY (Ireland):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I extend to you, Mr President, my sincere  congratulations on your election to the office of President of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.  I know that your wisdom and your expertise will guide us all and benefit us in our work. I also wish to express  my delegation’s compliments to the Director-General for his achievements in leading UNESCO and developing  its role in these changing and difficult times. I should also like to join the distinguished. speakers who have  preceded me in the debate in welcoming Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Tuvalu as new Member States of  UNESCO.
4.2 Since we met at the last General Conference, so much has changed in our world. The seeds of  democracy have grown and flourished in many lands, and political and economic systems which seemed frozen  in place have crumbled in response to the will of the people democratically expressed. The rift which existed in  our European continent has healed and the confrontation between hostile alliances - without doubt the most  difficult ever to have existed - has lost its meaning and purpose. Each new and remarkable change has become  a prelude to further and even greater change, and to greater and wider opportunities for co-operation and the  development of positive relationships between East and West. Disarmament has been given a new impetus. We  must have the courage and imagination to deal with the new opportunities which have now presented  themselves.
4.3 Germany and its ancient capital of Berlin, divided in 1945, have again become a united nation and a  united city in response to the democratic wishes of the German people and with the goodwill of the  international community. A
44 The past two years have seen greater co-operation between UNESCO and the other United Nations  development agencies. Perhaps the best and most fruitful example of this was the World Conference on  Education for All held in Jomtien in 1990, where UNESCO, UNDP, UNICEF and the World Bank contributed  to the success of the meeting.
4.5 It was a happy coincidence that the Jomtien Conference was held during the period when Ireland held  the Presidency of the European Community and had the honour of addressing the Conference on behalf of the
12 Member States. We were very pleased that the final Conference documents reflected so many of the  concerns which we had expressed. While I wish to congratulate all involved in the organization of the  Conference, it is our view that history will judge its eventual success or failure by the effectiveness of the  follow-up. We need to see its decisions and recommendations implemented and its targets and objectives  reached in the next ten years.
4.6 In this regard, my delegation welcomes the additional efforts now being made by UNESCO to support  initiatives aimed at furthering basic education in many of the Member States. We welcome the manner in  which the Organization has continued its endeavours to strengthen inter-agency partnerships in the area of  basic education and to help secure additional resources for this. We endorse the way in which it has pursued co-  operation at all levels in relation to the particular concerns stressed at Jomtien, taking special account of the  needs first, to improve learning outcomes in basic education; second, to enhance basic education for girls and  women; and third, to broaden the learning opportunities of different social groups so often omitted from the  mainstream of educational development. The Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 adequately reflects  these priorities and we are largely in agreement with the ideas which document 26 C/5 contains.
4,7 We fully endorse the need to maintain an integrated and co-ordinated inter-agency approach with  regard to basic education, and to devise follow-up strategies based on, and supported by, existing machinery,  institutions and programmes. These can be invigorated and strengthened as required. This I feel is preferable to  the establishment of any new structures.
4.8 Mr President, I should also like to comment briefly on a few other aspects of UNESCO's activities  which are of particular interest to Ireland at the present time. Dublin, our capital city, with its Celtic, Viking  and Norman roots, was designated European City of Culture for 1991. I would like to thank UNESCO on  behalf of the Government of Ireland for its interest in and assistance with the celebrations organized. In  particular, I wish to thank those responsible for arranging for UNESCO's Travelling Exhibition of Celtic Art to  be shown in Dublin this year and for arranging to hold the meeting of the UNESCO expert group on Art  Nouveau/Jugenstil in Dublin.
4.9 Mention of the Travelling Exhibition of Celtic Art prompts me to recall the Programme for Celtic  Cultures launched by UNESCO at the General Conference in Belgrade in 1980. The programme has led to co-  operation among Celtic scholars and other experts in many countries of Europe, East and West, North and  South. The programme is of particular interest and importance to my country and it is thus a matter of  considerable regret to us that no reference to it is made in UNESCO's regular programme for the coming  biennium. I hope very much that UNESCO will renew its support for the study of Celtic cultures and that the  necessary finances will be made available under the Participation Programme for the years 1992-1993 and in  the regular programme for subsequent years.
4.10 I should like to record my delegation's general satisfaction with the operation of the Participation  Programme. We see it as a very effective means of promoting UNESCO's image at large. It provides a uscful  form for technical co-operation between scientific institutions in developed and developing countries. It fosters  co-operation between Member States and represents, in our view, a very effective and cost-effective use of the  Organization's resources.
4.11 I wish to indicate my government's support for the priority accorded to the issue of gender-equity and  the role of women throughout the fields of UNESCO's competence. My government is, moreover, active in  developing and implementing a number of strategies to ensure that equal opportunities exist at all levels in the  education system for boys and girls and to foster and encourage them to develop fully their individual talents  and aptitudes. We are conscious of the need to break away from stereotyped behaviour and to encourage girls to  take up scientific and engineering subjects and to participate in non-traditional sectors of the labour market. We  regard the role of teachers, guidance counsellors and school principals as pivotal in this area and the in-service  training of teachers on gender-equality issues is a priority for us. I am pleased to note that the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1992-1993 in Subprogramme 1.3.3 makes some provision for support for educational research  in women's studies; I feel that this is an area where UNESCO could have a significant impact in the future.
4.12 Programme VII.1 (Peace in the minds of men) is another area for which I wish to express my support,  in particular for the proposals concerning the elimination of apartheid and the establishment in South Africa of  a non-racial democratic society. The world community must address the needs of a new South Africa and the  actions proposed will contribute significantly to this goal.
4,13 Mr President, UNESCO's role in promoting a greater awareness of the need to protect and preserve for  future generations mankind's physical cultural heritage has been significant. I am pleased to say that Ireland  has recently ratified UNESCO's Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural  Heritage (the World Heritage Convention). A list of our truly exceptional sites of international importance is  being compiled and will be submitted to the World Heritage Commitiee for consideration and - we hope -  inclusion in the World Heritage List. In this way, Ireland's ancient man-made and natural treasures will take  their place among the priceless antiquities of the many and varied cultures that comprise our world community.  We in Ireland look forward to playing our full role in regard to this Convention.
4.14 Mr President, there are many other aspects of the draft programme on which I would like to comment  but time does not permit. Let me conclude, therefore by stating that Ireland values the concept of universality  which is implicit in the United Nations system. I am convinced that UNESCO, working in the specialized areas  which have been assigned to it, has, in the words of its Constitution, the capacity to construct the defences of  peace in the minds of men. I believe that every State, whatever its political or economic position, has its own  unique contribution to make to this process. To that extent, the absence of any country from the Organization is  a matter of regret for all. For our part, Ireland will continue to lend its support to UNESCO and to participate to  the extent possible in its activities.
4.15 UNESCO, since its establishment, has served humankind well. But every organization, every  individual must adapt to changing needs and circumstances, and in this spirit, my delegation is approaching  with a positive and favourable attitude the ongoing discussions on the proposed changes regarding the  Executive Board.
4.16 Mr President, the international community, the United Nations and this Organization face great  challenges in the period ahead, but we are also facing a time of great opportunity to establish a more acceptable  world order, The prize to be gained is great. It is also of the utmost significance for the future of all of us.  Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Ireland. 1 now call on the Hon. Russell Marshall, Chairperson of  the National Commission and head of the delegation of New Zealand.
6.1 Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all congratulate you, Mr President,  on your election to the important office of President of this twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.  New Zealand joins others in welcoming the new Member States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and let me  also acknowledge the presence for the first time as full members, in their own right, of Namibia. We  particularly welcome our Pacific Polynesian neighbour, Tuvalu, whose membership brings the total Pacific  membership to nine, with the real prospect of more members to come from the Pacific region.
6.2 Mr President, the General Conference has been told before of the unique set of difficuities which many  Pacific Island States face. But they are worth repeating. The islands of the Pacific are mostly very small; they  are separated by vast distances of ocean; for the most part their resources are few, and their economies fragile.  Many Pacific Islands would be at grave risks from global warming. Several Pacific Island States have  populations of well under 100,000 people. As we heard this morning, for instance, Tuvalu has a population of  only 9,000 people. As a region, therefore, we were very pleased to welcome the establishment of a UNESCO  Subregional Office in Apia, Western Samoa, in 1984. However, at the twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference two years ago, Pacific Island countries expressed considerable dissatisfaction at the level of staffing  and funding allocated to the Apia Office. Since that time advisers in communications and science have been  appointed and we have been advised by the head of the Office of substantial improvements in education funding  for the next biennium. While as a region we are grateful for what we now have, there is still one serious gap.  The position of a cultural adviser was at first frozen, then removed. It was the considered view of the Pacific  subregion Member States, at a meeting we held in Auckland, New Zealand, in July this year, that the re-  establishment of this cultural position is the most valuable extra contribution UNESCO could make to the  Pacific at present.
6.3 As other Pacific Island speakers have already observed in this general policy debate, there 1s a growing  Pacific interest in, and commitment to, the promotion of culture in the subregion. There is much still to be  learned about past Pacific culture, in its broadest sense, there is a developing confidence in distinctive  contemporary Pacific Island culture and, as we approach the end of the colonial era, there are rediscoveries of  the many aspects of culture which are shared with people of other islands in the region.
6.4 That is why, at the Pacific Subregional Consultation, Pacific Member States resolved to seek UNESCO  funding for a major project under the World Decade for Cultural Development. Entitled Vaka Moana: the  Ocean Roads', this all-encompassing regional cultural project has the potential to stand worthily alongside such  projects as the Silk Roads and the Alexandria Library in the pantheon of UNESCO contributions to the world's  cultural awareness and commemoration. The promotion of this major cultural project, which has the strong  support of all Pacific Member States, makes all the more urgent the case for the reinstatement of a cultural post  in the Apia Office.
6.5 But, Mr President, we are not limited to the Pacific alone. Our nine Member States are also members  of the wider Asia-Pacific region, and we acknowledge the valuable assistance and benefit we receive from the  staff of the Principal Regional Office in Bangkok and from the various other offices and staff members  throughout the subregion. While we look forward to a strengthening of our own Subregional Office, in Apia,  we also value our Asian links, and from New Zealand's point of view at least, hope that we can still further  strengthen those links.
6.6 Mr President, since the General Conference last met in session only two years ago, there have been  many dramatic developments on the international front. The Cold War has come to an end, the apparently  inexorable world nuclear race at last shows signs of being reversed, Namibia is independent, Nelson Mandela  has been released, Middle East peace talks are about to be held. There is optimistic talk of a new world order  and of peace dividends. It is true that events in Yugoslavia and elsewhere remind us that we are by no means  fully at peace with each other, and there are still enormous problems of poverty, debt, illiteracy, and  environmental despoliation in many parts of this small planet.
6.7 But there is a renewed commitment to multilateralism, a new willingness to work through the United  Nations and its sister organizations. This new willingness to work co-operatively, to seek a collective resolution  of the world's great problems, presents this Organization with a rare opportunity to recapture its original  standing and role in the world. But the restoration of UNESCO to its former high standing will not be given. It  must be earned. We are faced not only with an opportunity, but also with a challenge.
6.8 Let there be no doubt that there is still major work for UNESCO to do. Much progress has been made  in the last 45 years but there is still much to be done, particularly in basic education, but also in UNESCO's  other mandated fields. But unless this Organization can make an even more urgent commitment to reform and  to decentralization, other agencies will take over these roles.
6.9 Mr President, New Zealand commends the Director-General, the Secretariat and the Executive Board  on the initiatives taken, the reforms introduced, the reductions in expenditure, the directions taken, and the  general proposals outlined for the next biennium. We are fully aware that there are considerable difficulties  involved in making significant change. Nevertheless, more still needs to be done. At the Asia-Pacific  subregional meeting hosted by Malaysia a month ago in preparation for this session of the General Conference,  it was strongly felt that further rationalization of the staff structure is needed to redress the imbalance between  staff and programme costs, that there is a need to focus more sharply on key programmes to avoid the  dissipation of funds in activities not directly related to UNESCO's mandate, and that there needs to be a greater  commitment to the decentralization of authority and staff.
6.10 Mr President, I have one other concern to share before I conclude. Much thought has been given by  many countries to various proposals for reform. New Zealand supports this reform process. It is essential that  any organization review and renew its structures in order to ensure that it is adequately equipped to confront  the challenges of the future. In doing so, however, we need to be careful to avoid turning the Executive Board  into a body preoccupied with minor details. The world needs more than ever the large-scale intellectual  thinking that UNESCO can provide and I wonder whether the creation of a new and separate structure is the  best way of achieving this.
6.11 Mr President, UNESCO is approaching its 50th anniversary, and there is abroad a renewed  commitment to co-operation. There is now an urgent necessity for this Organization to re-establish itself as the  principal international vehicle whereby the sharing of intellectual resources, specifically in education, science,  culture and communications, can be used to increase the world's understanding of its common humanity and to  further reduce ignorance, prejudice, and the other causes of conflict. We have today a rare opportunity for co-  operation and world harmony. It is imperative that UNESCO makes itself fully able to play its part.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of New Zealand. I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Pulat Tacar,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate, and head of the delegation of Turkey.
8.1 M. TACAR (Turquie) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Excellences, Mesdames,  Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter tout d'abord à l'occasion de  votre brillante élection à la présidence de l'UNESCO. Nous sommes persuadés que, sous votre direction, la  vingt-sixième session de notre Conférence, qui se tient à une étape déterminante de l'histoire, aboutira à des  acquis décisifs pour notre Organisation.
8.2 En effet, nous nous trouvons à un des tournants de l'histoire et au seuil d'une ère nouvelle de  coopération marquée toutefois par des contradictions. Le rapprochement entre l'Est et l'Ouest, l'effondrement  des systèmes totalitaires, la marche des peuples vers la démocratie, les annonces de désarmement se dessinent  comme des précurseurs d'une vie meilleure. Mais cet horizon est assombri. Le fossé qui sépare les riches et les  démunis et qui se creuse chaque jour davantage, l'illettrisme, la dégradation accélérée de notre environnement,  l'émergence de nationalismes d'exclusion, la montée de l'intolérance et les hauts murs des forteresses qui se  dressent, créant un ostracisme fondé sur la défense de la paroi nord des "Limes", comme le décrit Jean-  Christophe Ruffin dans son livre "L'empire et les nouveaux barbares”, nous préoccupent profondément. Voilà  des questions qui sont dans le champ d'action de notre Organisation et auxquelles les Etats membres ici  rassemblés se doivent de réfléchir, et d'apporter des solutions.
8.3 Je tiens à saluer chaleureusement et avec émotion les représentants de l'Estonie, de la Lettonie et de la  Lituanie, ainsi que ceux de Tuvalu, à l'occasion de l'adhésion de ses Etats à notre Organisation. L'adhésion de  nouveaux membres est le signe de l'intérêt que portent les nations à l'UNESCO, qui est une organisation à  vocation universelle. Comme le souligne le professeur Espiell, de l'Université de Montevideo, dans son article  au sujet du principe de l'universalité des Nations Unies et des institutions spécialisées, "dans le cas particulier  de l'UNESCO, l'élément indispensable universalisant est expressément reconnu au paragraphe 1 de l'article  premier de l'Acte constitutif, qui se réfère au respect universel de la justice, de la loi, des droits de l'homme et  des libertés fondamentales pour tous”. À cette occasion, le gouvernement turc voudrait unir sa voix à celle des  délégations qui ont appelé les Etats-Unis, le Royaume-Uni et Singapour à rejoindre l'UNESCO. Les  circonstances qui avaient amené ces Etats à quitter l'Organisation ont maintenant changé, et l'ambition d'une  universalité sans faille en matière de coopération dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture  et de la communication, ne pourrait qu'être bénéfique à l'humanité tout entière.
8.4 L'UNESCO se donne de nouveaux moyens pour répondre aux exigences et aux demandes actuelles. En  effet, la Conférence générale, le Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général ont entrepris une série de réformes.  Nous les considérons comme un processus évolutif et non comme une fin en soi. Ces réformes devraient avoir  pour but l'instauration d'un dialogue sincère qui permettrait une meilleure gestion de la coopération entre les  Etats membres, le Secrétariat et les autres organisations de la famille des Nations Unies. Elles doivent aussi  aider à assurer la transparence, le suivi des décisions ainsi qu'une évaluation du travail accompli.
8.5 Toutefois, il ne faudrait pas perdre de vue qu'il n'est pas facile d'apporter des innovations à une  organisation créée dans des circonstances très différentes de celles d'aujourd'hui, de changer d'un jour à l'autre  les rouages d'un Secrétariat bureaucratique manquant parfois de souplesse, afin qu'il puisse s'adapter à des  situations qui évoluent rapidement. Les habitudes d'un système de travail hiérarchique, manquant de temps en  temps de discipline, de sens de la responsabilité et d'esprit d'initiative, ne se corrigent ou ne se modifient pas  aisément. Il faut néanmoins ajouter, à ce sujet, qu'une amélioration substantielle est constatée. Le Directeur  général, avec l'énergie positive qu'il émet, avec son dynamisme, son approche constructive, son idéalisme, et  avec l'aide de ses proches collaborateurs, a réussi à accroître la motivation du Secrétariat, qui d'ailleurs compte  un très grand nombre de cadres hautement qualifiés et dévoués aux buts de l'UNESCO.
8.6 Après de longues négociations, le consensus semble maintenant réalisé autour des propositions  d'amendement de l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO. Il convient de préciser que l'article V visé par ces  propositions demeure la disposition la plus fréquemment modifiée de l'Acte constitutif. L'amendement ainsi  proposé ne modifie pas seulement le mode d'élection au Conseil, en mettant plus fortement l'accent sur la  responsabilité et l'engagement des Etats membres, mais il souligne également, entre autres : le rôle universel de  l'UNESCO, les problèmes auxquels font face les pays en voie de développement, la nécessité de renforcer le  rôle intellectuel de notre Organisation, la nécessité d'accroître l'efficacité et la capacité d'action du Conseil  exécutif, et surtout, la participation de tous les Etats membres au travail de notre Organisation, sur un pied  d'égalité. À cet égard, la délégation turque a noté avec intérêt et approbation les interventions des délégations  qui ont souligné l'importance du principe de rotation et d'une équitable représentation des sous-groupes, en ce  qui concerne les élections au Conseil exécutif. Pour sa part, la Turquie présente la candidature d'une éminente  personnalité au Conseil exécutif et vise le siège qui deviendra vacant et devrait normalement être octroyé à un  pays du sud-est de l'Europe et de l'est de la Méditerranée.
8.7 La décision touchant la création d'un groupe d'experts des questions financières et administratives au  sein de la Commission financière et administrative du Conseil exécutif est un pas en avant vers une meilleure  compréhension du travail du Secrétariat. Cela assurera, d'autre part, la transparence, et renforcera la confiance  entre le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat.
8.8 Les mesures de réformes entreprises par le Directeur général pour améliorer le fonctionnement et la  structure du Secrétariat, pour l'adapter aux objectifs et aux moyens de l'UNESCO, reçoivent notre soutien. Les  études d'audit concernant certaines unités du Secrétariat aboutiront, espérons-le, à des mesures de  simplification et de modernisation de la gestion.
8.9 Le rôle futur que devra jouer l'UNESCO dans le système des Nations Unies nous préoccupe tous. Le  Conseil exécutif a demandé au Comité spécial d'entreprendre une étude approfondie sur "l'organisation et les  méthodes de travail de l'UNESCO, en tant que membre du système des Nations Unies, dans un monde en  changement”. Ce Comité a accompli un excellent travail d'analyse préliminaire, qui consiste pour le moment à  identifier les domaines pour lesquels des travaux plus élaborés sont exigés.
8.10 Ici, je voudrais me pencher sur un nombre limité de questions posées dans le rapport du Comité  spécial, et apporter nos commentaires sur quelques-uns de ces problèmes. La coopération internationale  multilatérale se trouve à un tournant historique, ce n'est pas seulement l'UNESCO, mais toutes les  organisations internationales qui devraient entamer un processus de réflexion. Une nouvelle division du travail  entre les différentes organisations appartenant à la famille des Nations Unies est, à notre avis, une nécessité.  Cette nouvelle division du travail devrait tenir compte de l'action des institutions spécialisées comme  l'UNESCO qui maintenant approchent de leur cinquantenaire, ainsi que de l'action de celles créées de plus  fraîche date. Les travaux des organisations ou institutions régionales intergouvernementales et des  organisations non gouvernementales devraient aussi être pris en considération. Les doubles emplois et les  chevauchements entre les programmes et les statuts des institutions devraient Être identifiés avec clarté. Une  analyse des dépenses de ces organisations et de leurs sources de financement est également nécessaire. Les  ressources que les Etats sont prêts à réserver à la coopération multilatérale internationale sont malheureusement  limitées et ne peuvent en aucune manière satisfaire les demandes. Les solutions à préconiser devraient être  simples, réalistes et pragmatiques.
8.11 La question d'un plan unitaire des Nations Unies a été posée. Un plan unitaire est sans doute une des  options que la communauté internationale étudiera et discutera. Il en est d'autres. La "mise à plat” à laquelle  nous devrions procéder n'en exclut aucune, mais il ne faudrait pas perdre de vue que le renforcement des  mécanismes existants serait aussi un des choix envisageables.
8.12 La diversité des domaines d'action de l'UNESCO, l'ampleur et la multiplicité de ses tâches, la  complexité de ses actions qui touchent à l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication, donnent peut-  être une certaine impression de dispersion et de manque de cohésion. Ce qui rend le processus d'analyse  profonde et d'évaluation encore plus urgent et nécessaire, surtout si nous voulons rétablir l'adhésion et la foi  dans la mission de notre Organisation. Une analyse détaillée de ce qu'on appelle les "impasses du passé” devrait  être aussi établie conjointement avec le Secrétariat et le Conseil exécutif. C'est après une réflexion approfondie  que pourraient être jetées les bases nouvelles d'une coopération neuve et accrue.
8.13 Le gouvernement turc est d'avis, pour sa part, que l'UNESCO est plus que jamais appelée à jouer un  rôle important dans le système des Nations Unies, et que son Acte constitutif n'a cessé d'être valide. Notre  Organisation continuera à avoir sa place dans le système de coopération internationale, en jouant un rôle  d'élément catalyseur et mobilisateur, et elle ne devra pas perdre de vue l'aspect de sa mission qui l'oriente vers  l'action. C'est ce qu'on appelle communément l'équilibre précaire entre la réflexion et l'action.
8.14  Lorsque l'on parle d'action, on constate qu'il existe un manque d'information quant au travail et aux  réalisations de l'UNESCO. Nous partageons pleinement le souci de rendre plus visible l'action de l'Organisation  aux yeux du grand public comme dans les milieux spécialisés. À cet effet, nous avons étudié avec intérêt le  bilan, annexé au rapport du Comité spécial, des réalisations les plus significatives de l'UNESCO dans ses  différents domaines de compétence. Ce bilan devrait être complété et diffusé à l'adresse du grand public. Cette  publication devrait inclure toutes les réalisations, les plus concrètes comme les moins tangibles. Cela aiderait  sans doute à augmenter la crédibilité de l'UNESCO.
8.15 C'est dans cette logique nouvelle que s'intègre l'allocution prononcée par le Président de la République  française, M. François Mitterrand, que nous avons eu le privilège d'écouter lors de notre séance inaugurale.  N'a-t-il pas souligné que l'UNESCO elle-même devrait se donner les moyens de devenir ce pôle d'excellence  dont l'autorité s'imposera pour susciter autour d'elle l'engagement de la communauté tout entière et que les  hommes de science et de culture devraient souvent précéder les autres, en particulier les responsables  politiques.
8.16 A cet effet, la délégation turque soutient les idées qui ont engendré le projet de résolution sur la  coopération intellectuelle à l'UNESCO, et la mise en place d'un "forum de réflexion ad hoc” proposés par la  France et l'Allemagne. Cette coopération intellectuelle dans le domaine de la réflexion devrait aussi traiter des  problèmes que pose l'adaptation de l'UNESCO aux nouvelles conditions de la société internationale. Parmi les  dispositions de ce projet, ont retenu notre attention celles qui prévoient : de renforcer en particulier les  commissions nationales ; de faire figurer au sein du Conseil exécutif des personnalités qualifiées ; d'accorder la  plus grande attention aux avis exprimés par les Etats membres dans le cadre des consultations précédant  l'élaboration du projet de programme de l'Organisation ; de maintenir et développer les liens entre  l'Organisation et les milieux éducatifs, culturels, scientifiques et de la communication.
8.17 Notre délégation a eu l'occasion de commenter plus en détail le texte sur lequel la Commission I s'est  entendue par consensus. Le forum de réflexion constitué d'un nombre restreint de personnalités éminentes,  particulièrement compétentes dans les domaines d'activité de l'UNESCO, mis en place par le Conseil exécutif,  devrait être très utile, nous n'en doutons pas, aux travaux du Conseil. Mais il ne faudrait pas perdre de vue que  le Conseil exécutif est aussi censé être composé de personnalités qualifiées dans les domaines de compétence de  notre Organisation et que les débats du Conseil devraient atteindre un niveau intellectuellement élevé - c'est  tout du moins ce que nous voudrions. Nous souhaitons donc que le forum ne fasse pas double emploi avec le  Conseil exécutif. Parmi les questions que pourrait aborder ce forum, c'est le thème de "la culture et la paix” qui  nous semble revêtir une urgence toute particulière. Les vues de notre délégation à ce sujet ont été présentées à la  Commission V.
8.18 Dans ce contexte, je voudrais souligner la préoccupation profonde de la Turquie au sujet des nouvelles  formes d'intolérance qui menacent les idéaux au nom desquels l'Organisation des Nations Unies fut fondée et  en vue desquels l'UNESCO n'a cessé d'oeuvrer. Comme l'avait souligné le Directeur général lors de la séance  inaugurale du Forum international de Prague "Culture et démocratie”, la culture démocratique se fonde sur la  connaissance et l'acceptation des autres cultures. C'est la volonté de vivre avec autrui. La tolérance ne signifie  pas seulement la patience à l'égard des autres, mais elle implique la connaissance des autres et plus encore le  respect pour la beauté de leur culture. Le Directeur général a souligné à nouveau la priorité qu'il accordait à ce  probleme dans le discours qu'il a prononcé à l'ouverture de la session de la Conférence générale.
8.19 Ce sont des considérations similaires qui ont amené mon pays à présenter un projet de résolution au  sujet de la tolérance, voulant souligner ainsi qu'il était absolument nécessaire de promouvoir une éducation  conçue pour créer un état de tolérance dans les esprits. Cette résolution propose d'inviter le Directeur général à  examiner, en consultation avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies, les voies appropriées en vue de déclarer  l'année 1995, qui est l'année de célébration du cinquantenaire de l'UNESCO, l'Année des Nations Unies pour la  tolérance et les questions éthiques.
820 — L'année 1991 a été marquée en Turquie, en tant qu'année de l'amitié et de la compréhension, par la  célébration du 750e anniversaire de la naissance de l'éminent poète turc d'Anatolie Younous Emre, grand  humaniste contemporain de Dante. Les commissions nationales de plusieurs pays l'ont célébré avec nous et  - nous leur en sommes très reconnaissants. Je voudrais terminer mon intervention en citant quelques vers de  Younous Emre : "Le seul ennemi que nous ayons, c'est l'hostilité elle-même, nous ne gardons rancune pour  personne, pour nous l'humanité est indivisible." S'adressant à l'humanité, il disait : "Venez, soyons amis,  facilitons-nous la vie, aimons et soyons aimés.”
8.21 Tenant compte du temps limité réservé au débat général, ma délégation abordera en commission les  questions spécifiques concernant le programme et le budget. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Turkey.
9.2 Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced yesterday, H.E. Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General  of the United Nations, is paying a visit to UNESCO. He is already here, and I shall suspend proceedings to  enable me to welcome him. For protocol reasons please remain seated or within the hall.
9.3 The meeting is suspended for five minutes.  (The meeting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 4.10 p.m.)
13   VISITE DE S. EXC. M. JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, SECRETAIRE GENERAL  DE L'ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES  VISIT BY H.E. MR JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, SECRETARY-GENERAL  OF THE UNITED NATIONS  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR. JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, SECRETARIO GENERAL  DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS  BH3HT EI'O INPEBOCXOJIMTEJILCTBA I'-HA XABLEPA TIEPECA JIE KY3JILSPA,  IFEHEPAJIBHOI'O CEKPETAPSI OPFAHH3ALHH OB'EIIHHEHHEbIX HAIHH  tual] Al TAUX II caa¥le poss (go Fa gts ald aed! Sula 3,05  BES EMH HUE UE + 2H WIR À D (el  (Mr Pérez de Cuéllar entered the hall and was escorted to his place)
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Mr Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the twenty-sixth session of the General  Conference of UNESCO, it is a privilege for me to welcome among us H.E. Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar,  Secretary-General of the United Nations. |
10.2 Mr Secretary-General, during the last two years, the renaissance of the United Nations has been  proclaimed by many, but as you stated two years ago, The developments of the past months have not been  fortuitous. They are the result of the diplomatic activity sustained over the years by the United Nations and  intensified recently. On matters of international peace and security, the principal organs of the United Nations  have increasingly functioned in the manner envisaged by the Charter … Multilateralism has proved itself far  more capable of inspiring confidence and achieving results than any of its alternatives".
10.3 Indeed, Mr Secretary-General, the history of the United Nations during the last decades shows a series  of positive developments that prepared the ground for the present situation. The peaceful conclusion of the  process of decolonization, the development of human rights as a priority item on the agenda of the international  community, the massive promulgation of international law, are all general developments of permanent  importance; the attention paid to great global problems such as the environment, population, food, migration,  water and many others have also been a notable feature of the United Nations system's activities during the past  two decades. And it must be underlined, in that context, that the negotiation of the Treaty on the Law of the Sea  is an outstanding example of the capacity of the international community to tackle an immensely complex  problem by negotiation and consensus.
104 Mr Secretary-General, we are fortunate at present in having world leaders who, instead of confronting  one another, have been creating conditions favourable for maximizing inter-state co-operation and action. That  this potential has, in fact, already been largely realized is due, in great measure, to your diplomatic skills and  personal qualities; you have been, in very many different circumstances, a most capable partner of the  permanent members of the Security Council, helping to manage and to find solutions to the many crises that  have faced the Organization. In most of these you have emerged safely.
10.5 Mr Secretary-General, UNESCO, as a member of the United Nations family dedicated to intellectual  co-operation has already passed the threshold towards a new phase of its action. During the general policy  debate in which we are presently engaged, all the heads of delegation have stressed the need for a reinvigorated  intellectual debate in an Organization from which new perspectives, initiatives and practical ways of action  must emerge. For that is the only manner in which UNESCO will be able to respond to the immense  expectations of so many. We are sure your contribution this afternoon to that intellectual debate will be of  paramount importance to all of us. Thank you and welcome.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board.
12.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  : Mr Secretary-General, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General,  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as Chairman of the Executive Board of UNESCO, it is  an honour for me to welcome Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General of the United Nations.
122 Mr Secretary-General, a particularly happy coincidence marks your visit to UNESCO today. Only this  morning, the radio and television waves carried yet another piece of good news which will no doubt contribute  to the further lessening of tension in a part of the world which perhaps more than any other calls for all our  ingenuity if we are to ensure peace within its boundary. I am referring of course to the release of yet another  hostage in the Middle East. We all salute your discreet but meaningful contribution to this happy event and  pray that your continued effort will bring about the release of all the remaining hostages soon.
12.3 The last two years have seen the emergence of a new order which is freer from ideological fanaticism  and in which all States have begun the process of adapting their relations within the context of a greater  dependence on negotiations and the progressive rejection of the resolution of conflict through recourse to the  arms of mass destruction.
12.4 This can be regarded not only as the symbol of a new world order but perhaps, more importantly, as a  concrete manifestation of that new order: a new order in which the necessity and importance of international  co-operation, particularly within the United Nations system, assumes its full significance.
12.5 — It is our considered opinion that our organizations must be provided with every means to enable them  to meet the challenges of their renewed responsibilities. This is why, Mr Secretary-General, the Executive  Board of UNESCO decided to carry out an in-depth study on the organization and methods of work of  UNESCO, as a member of the United Nations system, in a changing world. A preliminary report on this subject  already exists. We consider its pursuance and further development to be one of our priorities in the coming  months. For we believe its outcome will be most useful to UNESCO in the years ahead, as it faces the  challenges of this changing world.
12.6 ~~ Mr Secretary-General, the ever-growing contribution of the United Nations to peace, to negotiation  and consensus owes much to your personal efforts and good offices aimed at the peaceful conclusion of many  conflicts, and it must be stressed that you have undertaken your heavy responsibilities successfully even in the  years of extremely high ideological tensions.
12.7 The omens are currently favourable, but much also depends on the extent to which the new framework  of international relations will be strained by the complex and interrelated economic and environmental  challenges that are likely to head the international agenda in the 1990s and beyond. Allow me briefly to turn to  the burning issue of our environment. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development  which will take place in 1992 in Brazil will have before it an immense responsibility: that of determining how  the planet's well-being will be safeguarded for the remainder of this century and beyond. UNESCO's  contribution to that Conference will be a fundamental one, and in joint meetings between the Bureaux of the  Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme and the Executive Board of UNESCO the  need for a close collaboration between all the United Nations organizations concerned has been repeatedly  underscored, in order to prepare the ground for an agreement on steps to deal effectively and in time with the  mounting environmental problems.
12.8 This is also true in the concerted effort of UNDP, UNESCO, UNICEF and the World Bank to meet the  challenges of illiteracy; and this type of co-ordination must be extended to other spheres of competence of our  organizations. For, as UNESCO moves into what promises to be a radically new phase of its existence, its  concrete and practical ties with the other agencies of the system must be more closely linked to action in the  field.
12.9 We await your message with high expectations, and in welcoming you once again, I would like to  express, on behalf of the Executive Board, our most sincere wishes for your success in the very many complex  tasks that you continue to undertake.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I now invite the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, to welcome our honoured guest.
14.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Secrétaire général. La Conférence générale de l'UNESCO vous accueille aujourd'hui pour  vous rendre un hommage mérité, auquel je suis heureux d'associer l'ensemble du Secrétariat de l'UNESCO -  qui, je le sais, vous admire profondément - et ma propre personne, dont vous savez combien elle vous est  dévouée et attachée.
14.2 Les multiples crises internationales que vous avez contribué à dénouer, les tensions à apaiser, les droits  à restaurer sont présents à toutes les mémoires. Sous votre impulsion, l'ONU a multiplié les opérations de  maintien de la paix : arrêt des conflits armés en Afghanistan, entre l'Iran et l'Irak, en El Salvador et au  Cambodge, accession de la Namibie à l'indépendance, tous les continents ont bénéficié de votre lucidité et de  votre persévérance.
14.3 Votre modestie, Monsieur le Secrétaire général, vous a poussé, devant l'Assemblée générale des  Nations Unies, à attribuer ce que vous avez appelé la "renaissance" de l'ONU aux transformations mondiales à  l'oeuvre depuis 1985. Je ferai observer cependant que la disparition d'un obstacle ne suffit pas à susciter le  mouvement vers l'avant. L'amélioration du climat international n'implique pas nécessairement que le Secrétaire  général poursuive une diplomatie discrète mais active, veille à prévenir la formation de nouveaux foyers  d'affrontement et rappelle avec à propos les principes fondamentaux de la Charte des Nations Unies. Or, vous  l'avez fait, Monsieur le Secrétaire général, avec la conviction souriante, la capacité d'anticipation sur  l'événement, et le respect de l'autre qui vous valent votre efficacité et votre popularité. Mais tous ces efforts  n'auraient guère abouti si vous n'aviez mené une démarche simultanée visant à revoir le fonctionnement des  organes intergouvernementaux des Nations Unies afin de créer entre eux et le Secrétaire général une  concertation, une coordination synergiques. Les résultats sont éloquents : le rôle du Secrétaire général dans le  renforcement de la paix et de la coopération internationale est aujourd'hui unanimement salué.
144 La revitalisation du système des Nations Unies que vous avez favorisée dans ses rapports avec les  Etats, vous l'avez aussi promue dans le cadre du Comité administratif de coordination. En effet, Président de ce  Comité, vous avez imprimé élan et direction à l'action commune de nos institutions. D'abord parce que vous  êtes convaincu que tous les rouages de cette machine procèdent d'un tronc commun, d'une idée fondamentale,  source que chaque organisation doit périodiquement retrouver au-delà de la spécificité de ses modalités  d'action. Ensuite parce que vous savez qu'à la mondialisation des défis actuels doit répondre une stratégie  concertée, interdisciplinaire … dans la discipline. L'esprit d'ouverture que vous avez toujours maintenu dans le  mécanisme de coordination interinstitutions, j'ai eu à maintes reprises l'occasion d'en bénéficier, C'est pour moi  un grand honneur que d'avoir ainsi pu travailler en contact étroit avec vous. Un honneur doublé d'une joie, car  j'ai constaté qu'aux affinités personnelles s'ajoutait une communauté de vues sur bien des points.
14.5 Jai parlé de votre souci de voir les divers programmes, institutions et fonds du système des Nations  Unies agir en étroite coopération. Vous savez combien mes convictions en cela rejoignent les vôtres, combien  j'ai été heureux de tenter de seconder vos efforts en développant nos activités conjointes, comme le Président du  Conseil exécutif vient de le souligner, avec la Banque mondiale, l'UNICEF, le PNUD, le FNUAP,  l'Organisation météorologique mondiale ou le Programme des Nations Unies pour l'environnement, par  exemple. Des progrès dans le sens de la concertation ont été accomplis ; beaucoup, certes, reste encore à faire,  mais la dynamique que vous avez instituée ne faiblira pas.
146 Vous avez aussi insisté à cet égard - et je m'en suis réjoui - sur le rôle des Etats membres, dont les  initiatives ponctuelles ne sont pas toujours de nature à favoriser un "front commun" des organisations du  système, alors qu'ils auraient tant à gagner de stratégies coordonnées entre les institutions.
14.7 Jai apprécié par ailleurs - parce qu'elle coincide avec mon sentiment intime - l'importance que vous  attachez à l'aspect humain du développement et aux ressources intellectuelles de toute communauté. Conscient  des atouts, mais aussi des bores de la décision politique, vous m'avez très vite conforté dans ma conviction que  les intellectuels doivent aujourd'hui apporter leur concours aux décideurs.
148 Votre confiance dans les ressources de l'esprit, dans la fécondité de ses apports, vous a naturellement  amené à porter un intérêt personnel à l'UNESCO, et vous me permettrez de vous en dire ici, avec émotion, ma  profonde reconnaissance. C'est avec enthousiasme, par exemple, que vous avez conduit le lancement de la  Décennie mondiale du développement culturel et celui de l'Année internationale de l'alphabétisation, que vous  avez encouragé la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous. De même, vous avez fait vôtres les  préoccupations de l'UNESCO en défendant avec une grande conviction la cause de son universalité. Ce sont là  des gestes dont l'UNESCO se souvient et pour lesquels les Etats membres, ici représentés, ne cesseront de vous  remercier.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(14.9) 1 should now like, Mr Secretary-General, to conclude this sincere tribute on a personal note and attempt  to describe to such a large and distinguished audience what I consider to be two outstanding features of your  personality.
(14.10) The first might seem to be a contradiction in terms: "disinterested ambition’. For your lofty sense of duty  is coupled with an acute awareness of the limits of your prerogatives. Without a doubt, it is this combination of  firm and unalterable commitment to the United Nations and the system as a whole and your indifference to  personal honours, that has given you the natural authority which so distinguishes you.
(14.11) The second feature is a sense of timing: your ability - no doubt characteristic of the culture of your home  country - to perceive how events may develop, since only if such developments are sensed in advance or predicted  can they be prevented or mitigated. I have had occasion to observe your actions closely at times of extreme  tension, when it is more than ever essential to be able to distinguish between what is important and what is  urgent.
(14.12) It was on one of those occasions that I wrote a poem dedicated to you, which ended with these words:  Tf we are to preserve the memory of the past,  The footprints of humanity,  The ways already trodden,  And light the paths that lie before us now,  We must, my children, friends,
13   And those unknown to me,  We must build everything  On the edge of the abyss  In that one place, that harsh place:  Our future -  Sole treasure  That all can share.’  The future, indeed, is our great common heritage, a future that is not yet contaminated, not yet distorted, and not  yet shared.
(14.13) Thank you, Mr Secretary-General, for your example: an example of the ideals of peace, freedom and  justice which are your guiding principles. Thank you very much.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, now it is my honour and privilege to invite  H.E. Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General of the United Nations to address the plenary.
16.1 Mr PEREZ DE CUELLAR, Secretary-General of the United Nations:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  thank you very much for your very kind words, which are an expression of the generosity of your great  countries. Now, Mr President, allow me to turn to the language of our host country.  (The Secretary-General of the United Nations continued in French)
16.2  Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, tout d'abord, de vous dire combien je suis heureux d'avoir  l'occasion de prendre la parole devant vous quelques semaines avant la fin de mon mandat et combien j'ai été  sensible aux aimables paroles que vous venez de m'adresser vous-même, ainsi qu'à celles du Président du  Conseil exécutif et du Directeur général. Quels que soient les talents que vous puissiez avoir ou que vos amis  aient la bonté de vous prêter, ils ne sont rien sans les circonstances qui permettent de les exercer. J'ai eu la  chance d'être Secrétaire général au moment où l'ONU se libérait des contraintes que l'opposition entre deux  systèmes antagonistes lui avait longtemps imposées. Le réveil de l'Organisation qui s'accompagne d'un  renouveau de l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies et, en premier lieu de l'UNESCO, dont le Directeur  général a très justement évoqué la seconde renaissance, la nouvelle fondation, est pour moi un motif de  satisfaction et de fierté. À la veille de mon départ, je me réjouis de pouvoir laisser à mon successeur un  instrument dont l'utilité n'est plus contestée et qui a fait la preuve, en maintes occasions, de son efficacité.  (Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies poursuit en espagnol)
(16.3) Mr President, allow me to pay tribute to the Director-General, Dr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, for the  outstanding qualities which have made him the very personification of this Organization devoted to education,  science and culture. Before taking up the high office entrusted to him by his own country, Spain, and then,  providentially by the international community, he was a professor of science and a man of culture. In an era of  rigid specialization he shunned any form of parochialism and admirably blended the qualities of philosopher,  scientist and poet. Here was the man who was destined to guide UNESCO along the path to its revival, which he  has done with imagination, skill and energy.  (The Secretary-General of the United Nations continued in French)
16.4 Monsieur le Président, dans la famille des Nations Unies, l'UNESCO occupe une place privilégiée. On  a dit qu'elle était la moins spécialisée des institutions spécialisées. La pensée en effet n'a pas de frontières.  L'UNESCO est un peu l'organe pensant du système. Elle poursuit, certes, des objectifs précis, tels que  l'éducation de tous, en commençant par l'alphabétisation du milliard d'êtres humains qui n'ont pas accès à
496   l'écrit, base de nos civilisations. Elle travaille à l'avancement de la science et de la technologie, dans des  domaines bien définis comme la mer, la biosphère ou la géologie, tout en multipliant les contacts entre  intellectuels et scientifiques du monde entier. Elle met en oeuvre de nombreux programmes visant notamment à  faciliter la libre circulation des idées et de l'information, aussi bien qu'à protéger le patrimoine culturel  mondial. Elle agit donc concrètement sur le terrain, mais elle n'en demeure pas moins l'Organisation du  système dont l'activité est la plus abstraite.
16.5 C'est elle dont la réflexion oriente notre effort commun et dont l'esprit éclaire notre pensée. Car, si  toutes les institutions sont animées d'un même esprit - l'esprit de la Charte - qui constitue leur dénominateur  commun et leur lien le plus profond, l'UNESCO est appelée dans toute son action à le faire connaître et  partager, à en renouveler l'expression selon les priorités du moment et à en assurer l'approfondissement et le  rayonnement.
16.6 … Fidèle au dessein de ses fondateurs qui voulaient qu'elle fournit au système ses assises intellectuelles et  morales, M. Federico Mayor a insisté sur l'importance de l'éthique qui doit inspirer la pensée aussi bien que  l'action. De fait, le préambule de la Charte n'a pas plus tôt défini l'objectif premier des peuples des Nations  Unies qui est d'éviter la guerre, qu'il affirme immédiatement leur foi dans certaines valeurs, les droits de  l'homme, l'égalité des individus et des Nations. Il ajoute ensuite qu'ils sont résolus à pratiquer la tolérance qui  est le principe de la paix, sa source spirituelle. Il ne mentionne pas le mot de solidarité qui figure en revanche  dans le préambule de l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO à propos, il est vrai, de la paix et non du développement.  Peut-être son usage s'est-il répandu plus tard, quand la misère s’est révélée aussi meurtrière que la guerre et  quand on a vu que la solidarité était à la coopération ce que la tolérance est à la paix.
16.7 = Quoi qu'il en soit, il est clair que la Charte fait reposer toute l'action des Nations Unies sur une pensée  commune qui, comme l'avait dit Jacques Maritain, n'est pas une idéologie, un système d'explication du monde,  une pensée spéculative, mais une pensée pratique, un ensemble de convictions morales universellement  partagées. Et cette morale humaniste se fonde sur des principes qui, pour n'être pas nouveaux, n'en restent pas  moins mobilisateurs. Le respect et la justice, à une époque où le monde fait face à d'immenses défis, tel que la  consolidation de nouvelles démocraties, le développement des pays du Sud et la préservation de  l'environnement, cette double exigence s'impose plus clairement que jamais.
16.8 Montesquieu disait autrefois que la démocratie avait pour principe la vertu des citoyens, définie  comme leur souci de faire passer l'intérêt général avant l'intérêt particulier. Aujourd'hui, on souligne volontiers  qu'elle exige ce qu'on appelle une culture démocratique. Il se pourrait bien que cette culture rejoigne l'esprit  civique auquel se réfère la théorie des gouvernements, cet esprit de tolérance et de solidarité qui est celui de la  Charte et qui seul permet le dialogue et la conciliation des intérêts contradictoires. Ce qui est vrai des sociétés  relativement homogènes, mais plus encore des sociétés où se côtoient divers groupes ethniques ou culturels et  dont le modèle devient la règle.
169 L'UNESCO envisage de se pencher sur les questions de l'identité culturelle, du concept de l'Etat,  fédéral ou conféral, et de la démocratie en général. Ses réflexions nous seront précieuses et je ne serais pas  surpris qu'elles débouchent sur le mêeme impératif moral d'union et d'alliance dans le respect mutuel. De même  que la paix et la démocratie, le développement économique commence dans l'esprit des hommes. Je ne pense  pas seulement à la formation des travailleurs, à la mise en valeur des ressources humaines, si cruciale à une  époque où le savoir tend à supplanter la terre ou le capital en tant que facteur de production, je fais allusion  également à la dimension culturelle du développement sur laquelle l'UNESCO a légitimement mis l'accent, au  respect des cultures et des mentalités sans lesquelles on constate aujourd'hui que le progrès économique est  condamné à l'échec. Je songe, enfin, à l'indispensable élan de solidarité mondiale que requiert la réduction des  inégalités scandaleuses qui se creusent sous nos yeux. au fond, notre monde a besoin d'un supplément d'âme, un  supplément d'âme commune, et c'est à l'UNESCO de tenter de répondre à cette attente universelle. Elle ne  pourra s'acquitter pleinement de cette haute mission que si les nations qui l'ont quittée se décident enfin à la  rejoindre, en participant au dialogue et à la coopération qui se poursuivent en son sein.
16.10  Puisse l'UNESCO ne pas rester à l'écart du mouvement d'universalisation qui se fait sentir à l'ONU et  dans d'autres organisations du système des Nations Unies. Puisse l'universalité de sa composition refléter  bientôt celle de son message de compréhension et de fraternité. Je vous remercie.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall suspend our meeting for five minutes to enable the Secretary-General  to take his leave. Could you please remain seated during that time. Thank you.  (The meeting was suspended at 4.45 p.m. and resumed at 4.50 p.m.)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXIIEHHE BOMPOCOB OBIE MOJNHTHKH (npoxonxexne)  (+65) Taladl Laban | Le  SERRE (88)
18. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the general policy debate, and I give the floor to  H.E. Mr Antonoi Burity da Silva Neto, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Angola.
19.1 M. DA SILVA NETO (Angola) (discours prononcé en portugais ; traduction française fournie par la  délégation) :  Permettez-moi avant tout de présenter mes chaleureuses salutations à toutes les délégations présentes à  cette session de la Conférence générale. Monsieur le Président, au nom de mon gouvernement, de la délégation  qui m'accompagne et en mon nom personnel, je vous félicite pour votre élection. Votre expérience de  l'Organisation, liée à la sagesse que nous vous connaissons sont une garantie de ce que nos travaux seront  conduits avec compétence et succès.
19.2 Monsieur le Président, avant de faire quelques observations sur le Projet de programme et de budget  pour 1992-1993, soumis à notre appréciation, permettez-moi de profiter de l'occasion qui m'est offerte pour  vous présenter un panorama succinct de la situation actuelle en République populaire d'Angola, caractérisée par  la réinstauration de la paix, la démocratisation de la vie politique et la reconstruction nationale.
19.3 Monsieur le Président, les accords conclus à Bicesse (Portugal) le 31 mai de cette année, entre le  Président de la République populaire d'Angola et le Président de l'Union nationale pour l'indépendance totale  de l'Angola, ont créé, en mettant fin à une guerre de 16 ans qui a dévasté presque totalement notre pays, des  conditions favorables pour que le gouvernement angolais prête une attention particulière à la remise en état et  au développement des institutions éducatives, culturelles et scientifiques, détruites par la guerre.
194  Ayant l'espoir d'un avenir radieux pour notre pays que justifie l'avènement de la paix, nous pouvons  dorénavant mettre à la disposition des activités qui sont du domaine de compétence de l'UNESCO, des  ressources jusque-là destinées à la défense de l'intégrité territoriale et nous pouvons, par conséquent, étendre  notre action vers des régions dépourvues d'institutions éducatives, culturelles, scientifiques et de  communication. L'ampleur des destructions dans ces domaines, croyez-moi Monsieur le Président, est sans  commune mesure avec les efforts qu'un pays tel que le nôtre, de surcroît africain et sous-développé, pourra  consentir afin de remédier dans le délai prescrit de 10 ans, c'est-à-dire d'ici à l'an 2000, ne serait-ce qu'à  hauteur de 30 %, aux dégâts subis.
19.5 En effet, Monsieur le Président, près de 20 à 25 milliards de dollars américains, c'est là le chiffre  indicatif des pertes causées par la guerre dans mon pays où le bilan s'élève à plus de 300.000 morts, 80 à
100.000 handicapés, jeunes pour la plupart, 850.000 personnes déplacées parmi lesquelles près de
342.000 enfants orphelins et abandonnés, 400.000 réfugiés dans les pays voisins. Il est encore trop tôt pour  estimer le coût réel des dégâts subis dans les domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO, car la libre circulation des  personnes et des biens n'est pas encore effective. La guerre, liée à la sécheresse, a touché plus ou moins  directement environ 1.500.000 citoyens angolais.
19.6 Les effets de la guerre et de la sécheresse ont placé l'Angola dans la catégorie des pays se situant au  plus bas de l'échelle statistique s'agissant des domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO. On estime à 1.400.000 le  nombre des enfants de 5 à 14 ans qui sont exclus du système scolaire. Le système éducatif actuel n'accueille que
40 % des enfants ; cela est dû, non seulement à la guerre, mais aussi à une série de carences, notamment à
498   l'insuffisance quantitative et qualitative de professeurs ainsi qu'au manque de matériels didactiques et de  mobilier scolaire. Il est à noter qu'à court terme, pour scolariser jusqu'à la fin du siècle, ne serait-ce que 60 %  des enfants, nous avons besoin de 12.500 nouvelles salles de classe et de 350 millions de dollars américains,  sans compter la formation des professeurs et les institutions.
19.7 Dans le domaine des communications, on estime que le système interurbain fonctionne à 50 % de sa  capacité. La loi sur la presse, adoptée récemment, préconise l'indépendance des médias.
19.8 Durant toute la période de la guerre, la flore et la faune ont été sérieusement touchées ; les parcs  nationaux et les réserves n'ont pas été épargnés du fait de la chasse clandestine, des feux de brousse, de  l'invasion humaine, des destructions. En plus de cela, la connaissance des parcs nationaux est très imparfaite. Il  existe très peu d'études scientifiques sur la flore et la faune, la climatologie, les mouvements migratoires, les  endémies, etc. C'est pourquoi, dans le cadre du Programme MAB, et compte tenu de notre adhésion à la  Convention pour la protection du patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel, nous souhaitons bénéficier d'une  assistance de la communauté internationale face aux menaces de destruction des zones protégées des parcs  nationaux, des réserves naturelles totales, des réserves partielles et des réserves spéciales d'Angola.  Heureusement pour nous et pour les autres, le respect envers la nature et envers l'homme est un indicateur de  civilisation et non le contraire.
199 En Angola, les jeunes de 15 à 24 ans représentent presque 20 % de la population. Et c'est cette couche  de la société qui a été la plus sacrifiée durant les 16 années de guerre. Beaucoup ont été privés d'écoles, ont  perdu leur famille et leur vie quotidienne est synonyme de souffrance, de frustration, de délinquance, etc.
19.10 Dans le cadre du processus de pacification du pays, la tâche principale du gouvernement angolais  consiste à trouver des solutions aux problèmes de l'insertion sociale de milliers de jeunes libérés du service  militaire, de milliers de jeunes handicapés et déplacés par la faute de la guerre qui aspirent maintenant à la  formation, à l'emploi, au logement et aux loisirs. Plus concrètement, nous voulons dire que le gouvernement  angolais est tenu de promouvoir et d'exécuter des programmes qui visent le perfectionnement et le placement  professionnel de ces jeunes et simultanément la création des conditions matérielles correspondantes. Pour cela,  le soutien de l'UNESCO devient indispensable, notamment en ce qui concerne la politique en matière  d'élaboration des programmes scolaires en vue de l'intégration socio-économique de la jeunesse défavorisée.
19.11 Considérant le tableau obscur que nous venons de brosser, je veux, Monsieur le Président, lancer un  appel aux éventuels bailleurs de fonds afin que ceux-ci accordent une priorité absolue aux actions à  entreprendre dans le secteur de l'éducation, de la culture et des sciences en Angola. Nous dirigeons notre appel  en premier lieu vers les pays développés, auxquels nous demandons d'intensifier leur assistance dans cette  phase de reconstruction nationale. Notre appel est également dirigé vers d'autres peuples et vers les  organisations non gouvernementales disposés à aider le peuple angolais à sortir de la situation dans laquelle 1l  se trouve plongé.
19.12 Dans ce contexte, je veux profiter de l'occasion qui m'est offerte pour remercier les gouvernements  japonais, français et portugais ainsi que la CEE et l'ASDI d'être disposés à contribuer à la remise en état de  certaines infrastructures éducatives, culturelles, scientifiques et informationnelles. Je souhaiterais que les autres  gouvernements, ONG et l'UNESCO suivent l'exemple que je viens d'évoquer.
19.13 En outre, je dois dire que, tout en comptant sur la solidarité de la communauté internationale, nous  donnerons l'exemple. En effet, dans le nouveau contexte social, politique et économique que le processus de  paix a créé, notre principale tâche consistera à procéder à des réformes profondes du système éducatif,  scientifique et communicationnel. C'est ainsi que, sur le plan de l'éducation, nous comptons introduire dans le  processus d'enseignement une composante relative à l'éducation morale et civique, et rétablir un enseignement  privé où déjà l'Eglise assume un rôle prépondérant, conformément à la recommandation de la table ronde sur  l'éducation pour tous, tenue à Luanda en juillet de cette année. Par ailleurs, des études sont en cours en vue de  l'utilisation des langues nationales dans l'enseignement afin de réduire substantiellement l'échec scolaire au  niveau primaire et secondaire, au niveau de l'alphabétisation et de la postalphabétisation des adultes. Il y a lieu  de noter ici le rôle des médias comme instrument de formation de l'opinion publique, au profit de l'éducation  fondamentale et professionnelle. Nous pensons que c'est à ce niveau de l'enseignement que commence la mise  en oeuvre du processus de démocratisation. C'est à ce stade également qu'on alimente les autres niveaux de  formation pouvant permettre une participation intégrale des citoyens à la vie culturelle, économique et politique  du pays.
19.14 Parallèlement aux actions mentionnées ci-dessus, il devient impérieux de mener à bon terme le  programme de reconstruction des établissements scolaires endommagés et de construction de nouveaux édifices,  de production sur place de matériel didactique et de mobilier scolaire ou de leur importation. Dans ce contexte,  le gouvernement angolais qui en 1975 s'était réservé le monopole de l'éducation, vient d'édicter une législation  sur la privatisation de l'enseignement autorisant et réglementant l'enseignement privé.
19.15 Dans le domaine de la culture, qui constitue également un souci majeur pour nous, le problème du  renouveau des infrastructures culturelles sur tout le territoire national conformément aux ressources et  possibilités financières, matérielles et humaines de chaque région, afin qu'un nouvel élan culturel, spirituel soit  créé ou replacé au niveau d'antan et qu'enfin soit envisagé son développement. Des plans d'étude concrets sont  élaborés en ce qui concerne la préservation, la conservation et la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et  historique, physique et non physique à divers niveaux allant jusqu'au théâtre et au cinéma, pour lesquels une  réunion est prévue pour le prochain exercice biennal. Par ailleurs, il y a des recherches en cours concernant  notre politique et nos stratégies dans ces domaines d'actualité qui malheureusement ont connu une certaine  paralysie. Avant l'avènement de la paix nous considérions comme urgente l'intervention de la culture dans la  pacification des esprits pour permettre non seulement les retrouvailles de la famille angolaise mais aussi la  revalorisation préalable du sentiment patriotique des membres d'une même nation considérée comme une  identité propre.
19.16 Un autre problème auquel nous attachons de l'importance est celui de la formation dans différents  domaines de la culture. Avec les ressources humaines disponibles, nous envisageons d'entreprendre certaines  actions de formation à la base. À ce sujet, nous osons croire que l'UNESCO pourra nous aider à obtenir des  bourses d'études.
19.17 En ce qui conceme le champ majeur de programme II, relatif à la science pour le progrès et  l'environnement, nous pensons que les efforts doivent être poursuivis en faveur de la promotion de la  coopération internationale afin que puissent être atteints les objectifs que l'UNESCO a toujours préconisés. En  fait, la science et la technologie évoluent sans cesse et sont adaptées au développement du pays, en ce qu'elles  tiennent compte du degré de développement socio-économique, de la dynamique de la société et de ses besoins  réels en matière d'utilisation de la science et de la technologie, des tendances du développement de la science et  de la technique moderne. Néanmoins, il faut dire que les résultats visés ne sont pas encore atteints,  principalement à cause du manque de ressources humaines qualifiées, d'infrastructures physiques, techniques et  matérielles et de financement.
19.18 Dans la poursuite des actions tendant à mettre la science et la technologie au service de la société,  notre attention est tournée vers le problème de l'environnement ainsi que vers l'emploi des ressources naturelles  au profit du développement durable, Quant au rapport existant entre la science, la technologie et la société,  malgré les restrictions financières de l'Organisation qui ont entraîné la diminution des activités dans ces  domaines, nous souhaitons que ce programme re¢oive un appui substantiel pouvant permettre des efforts  nationaux de promotion de la culture scientifique et sa contribution au développement des capacités,  notamment des pays les moins avancés, pour qu'ils puissent accompagner le progrès scientifique et  technologique.
19.19 Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993,  soumis à notre appréciation, nous avons noté avec satisfaction que ce document était élaboré conformément au  cadre général tracé dans le Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995, conformément aux orientations décidées lors  de la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale. Nous avons constaté également que ce projet se  caractérise par un réalisme dû aux restrictions financières auxquelles l'Organisation est soumise. À ce titre,  nous approuvons le processus de concentration des activités et du personnel préconisé, qui se traduit, d'un côté,  par la réduction des programmes et des actions de programmes et, de l'autre, par la séparation des coûts relatifs  au personnel et aux programmes. Car nous pensons, nous aussi, que les ressources financières limitées qui sont  disponibles doivent être destinées avant tout à un certain nombre de programmes considérés comme  prioritaires, comme ceux qui ont trait aux pays les moins avancés, les femmes et la région Afrique.
19.20 En ce qui concerne la région Afrique, nous nous demandons si la priorité accordée à cette région dans  le 26 C/5 ne contredit pas le programme Priorité Afrique qui a été mis en route il y a à peine deux ans, ou alors,  si l'un et l'autre visent la même finalité avec des approches différentes.
19.21 Nous apprécions par ailleurs les résultats du travail de décentralisation entrepris. Mais nous voulons  attirer votre attention sur le fait que ce processus ne doit pas être uniforme pour toutes les régions. Il doit, à  notre avis, s'adapter aux situations et aux réalités de chaque région ou de chaque Etat membre.
19.22 Pour le reste, il y a identité de vues entre les priorités défendues dans le document 26 C/5 et les  préoccupations du gouvernement de la République populaire d'Angola, surtout dans cette étape de  réconciliation, de démocratisation et de reconstruction nationale, notamment en ce qui concerne : l'éducation  fondamentale, technique et supérieure, l'environnement qui ne doit pas être dissocié du processus de  développement global des sociétés, la promotion des langues nationales et les traditions orales, la liberté  d'expression, la libre circulation de l'information, l'indépendance, le pluralisme des médias et l'élimination de  toutes formes de discrimination. Aussi, la délégation de la République populaire d'Angola n'a-t-elle aucune  difficülté à approuver dans ses grandes lignes le projet de document présenté à la Conférence générale.
19.23 Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, nous voulons attirer l'attention de cette auguste assemblée sur le  danger que représentent les zones de tension sur notre planète, malgré l'existence relative de la détente dans le  monde. À ce sujet, nous lançons une fois de plus un appel aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique, à l’Union soviétique et à  la communauté internationale afin qu'ils usent de tous les moyens à leur portée pour éviter le retour à la guerre  froide. Merci.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Angola. I now call on H.E. Ms Aminata Tall, Vice-Minister,  Ministry of National Education, and head of the delegation of Senegal.
21.1 Mme TALL (Sénégal) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, honorables  délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est au nom du gouvernement du Sénégal et au nom de ma délégation que je  voudrais présenter à M. Ogol mes félicitations pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale de  notre Organisation et lui souhaiter beaucoup de succès dans l'accomplissement de la mission qui vient de lui  être confiée. Je saisis également cette occasion pour remercier son prédécesseur, M. Anwar Ibrahim, de la  Malaisie, pour le talent avec lequel il a conduit les travaux de la vingt-cinquième session et pour le discours  remarquable qu'il a prononcé lors de la séance inaugurale de la présente Conférence.
212 — Monsieur le Directeur général, je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour vous transmettre les regrets du  Président Abdou Diouf de n'avoir pu répondre à votre aimable invitation. En son nom, je vous exprime notre  sympathie et vous encourage à poursuivre la noble tâche qui vous a été confiée.
21.3 Monsieur le Président, par votre intermédiaire, permettez-moi de souhaiter la bienvenue aux Etats  baltes et à Tuvalu qui viennent de nous rejoindre. Leur présence parmi nous, en même temps qu'elle nous  enrichit, conforte la vocation universelle de notre Organisation.
21.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, au moment de m'adresser à la Conférence générale, réunie pour sa vingt-  sixième session, je voudrais confirmer, au nom du gouvernement sénégalais, deux positions de principe  essentielles concernant l'Organisation. En premier lieu, la réaffirmation de notre engagement sans réserve au  sein de l'UNESCO, en vertu de l'importance indiscutable de son rôle et de ses objectifs, dans un contexte  d'interdépendance et de coopération mondiale accrues, contexte posant avec acuité les exigences de paix, de  liberté et de promotion des droits de l'homme. En second lieu, la réaffirmation de notre souhait de voir se  poursuivre le processus de réforme et les efforts de réactualisation des programmes, de façon à mieux répondre  aux besoins des Etats membres dans un monde en pleine mutation. De cette façon, nous réussirons à surmonter  définitivement les problèmes que l'Organisation a connus dans un passé récent. À cet égard, le Sénégal garde  l'espoir de voir se restaurer rapidement l'universalité de l'UNESCO, par l'adhésion de nouveaux Etats et le  retour au sein de la maison commune des pays amis, dont nous considérons la présence indispensable dans le  concert des Nations.
215 Pays démocratique, où coexistent dans l'harmonie et la paix toutes les croyances et des sensibilités  culturelles diverses, le Sénégal, qui abrite le Bureau régional d'éducation pour l'Afrique (BREDA), entend  rester fidèle à l'esprit de l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO et ne ménagera aucun effort pour contribuer au  développement de l'action de l'Organisation, particulièrement en Afrique. Nous conservons un optimisme  raisonné quant aux perspectives de renforcement inéluctable des missions vitales de l'UNESCO au sein de la
13   communauté internationale. En effet, on assiste aujourd'hui dans les divers continents à de profonds  bouleversements et à une intense manifestation d'aspirations positives, qui tendent toutes vers la paix et la  liberté. L'histoire récente de mon pays démontre l'intérêt que nous accordons aux questions relatives à la  démocratie et aux droits de l'homme. Le Sénégal est parvenu, aux termes d'un consensus patriotique, à mettre  sur pied un gouvernement d'ouverture et de large union nationale au sein duquel cohabitent des responsables  provenant de partis politiques différents, afin de mobiliser toutes les forces vives de la nation dans la bataille  pour le développement. Ailleurs, nous le savons, ces aspirations à la démocratie et à la paix s'expriment encore.  L'UNESCO ne peut manquer d'être sensible à ces transformations en cours et à la nécessité de les soutenir dans  ses domaines d'activité propres.
216 La décennie 1990 sera celle de l'éducation et de la culture. L'UNESCO a déjà indiqué la voie à suivre  avec la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous et la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel.  L'éducation et la culture, qui font partie des domaines de compétence essentiels de notre Organisation, sont les  deux facteurs stratégiques de la compréhension entre les peuples et du rapprochement entre les nations. Ce sont  également deux domaines dans lesquels nous pourrons apporter des contributions plus décisives pour  accompagner une époque aussi prometteuse pour les relations mondiales et pour asseoir sur des bases solides un  avenir de liberté et de paix pour l'humanité.
21.7 Voila la conviction du gouvernement sénégalais qui, sur le plan national, met en oeuvre une politique  éducative et culturelle devant préparer notre peuple à relever les défis du XXIe siècle par le développement et la  rénovation de l'enseignement des sciences et de la technologie, par la modernisation de l'enseignement  supérieur en vue de faire de nos universités des espaces privilégiés d'interaction et de coopération entre le  monde du travail et les centres de décisions économiques, techniques et scientifiques, et par la généralisation de  l'utilisation de l'ordinateur dans les établisements scolaires. Pour préparer les conditions d'un développement  intégral assumé par la nation tout entière, le Sénégal vient de se doter en janvier 1991, d'une nouvelle loi  d'orientation de l'éducation nationale qui met l'accent sur la vocation permanente de l'éducation nationale  visant l'éradication définitive de l'analphabétisme et la promotion sociale de tous les citoyens. Et pour affirmer  sa volonté politique de venir à bout de I'analphabétisme dans les plus brefs délais, le gouvernement sénégalais a  créé un ministère de l'alphabétisation chargé de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de lutte  contre l'ignorance, en plus de la nécessaire coordination des initiatives multiformes en matière d'alphabétisation  des organisations de coopération et des sociétés d'intervention en milieu rural. Toutes les ressources  intellectuelles et matérielles internes disponibles seront mobilisées et rationalisées pour atteindre notre objectif  d'éducation pour tous. C'est ainsi qu'une mission pluridisciplinaire secondée par un comité national a déjà  élaboré un plan intégré d'élimination de l'analphabétisme au Sénégal et s'attèle à la mobilisation des ressources  nécessaires à sa réalisation effective.
21.8  Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, de souligner l'accord total du  gouvernement sénégalais sur la priorité accordée à l'éducation de base pour tous, afin d'assurer un suivi efficace  de la Conférence mondiale de Jomtien dans ce Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993. À cet égard,  nous nous félicitons qu'à Jomtien, la Banque mondiale, le PNUD et l'UNICEF aient annoncé leur intention  d'accroître les ressources de leurs programmes respectifs consacrés au développement de l'éducation de base.  Nous félicitons le Secrétariat pour le travail efficace qui a été mené et qui a permis de réaliser progressivement,  dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies et des organisations intergouvernementales, un consensus autour de  l'idée fondamentale que l'élimination de l'analphabétisme demeure l'un des problèmes cruciaux de notre  époque. Il s'agit là d'une entreprise capitale, non seulement parce que l'analphabétisme est un aspect du sous-  développement, une source d'inégalité et une cause de pauvreté, mais aussi et surtout parce qu'elle est l'un des  éléments de la réponse à ces grands problèmes mondiaux qui sont une menace pour l'humanité. Le travail  d'alphabétisation permet, dans notre pays, d'atteindre les pauvres et les exclus des zones rurales et urbaines,  d'élargir leur vision du monde et de leur donner les moyens de participer à la vie du monde moderne. Avec  cette priorité accordée à l'alphabétisation, l'UNESCO a trouvé un puissant instrument d'échange d'idées et  d'informations propices à une meilleure compréhension entre les hommes. Pour toutes ces raisons, le Sénégal  encourage le Secrétariat à renforcer la coopération interinstitutions autour de cette tâche bautement prioritaire  et l'invite à apporter tout son soutien au Comité du programme régional pour l'élimination de l'analphabétisme  en Afrique, dont les prochaines assises se tiendront en 1992 à Dakar.
219 Monsieur le Directeur général, la récente Conférence MINEDAF VI organisée à Dakar en juillet  dernier a permis aux ministres africains de l'éducation de constater que, malgré les efforts très louables  consentis par nos peuples et les progrès manifestes enregistrés en matière de scolarisation sur le continent,  l'objectif de scolarisation universelle est loin d'être atteint, car les politiques d'ajustement structurel et le poids
502   de l'endettement sur nos maigres ressources font peser sur nos sytèmes éducatifs de nouvelles contraintes qui les  poussent vers la stagnation, voire la régression. Notre continent continue de souffrir d'une situation économique  critique, malgré les efforts de nos Etats et le soutien de la communauté internationale annoncé à l'occasion de la  session extraordinaire de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies qui avait été organisée à la demande de  l'OUA, en juin 1986. Les tâches qui s'imposent aux gouvernements africains en matière d'éducation de base et  d'éradication de l'analphabétisme demeurent donc exigeantes et urgentes. La mobilisation d'énormes ressources  internes et externes est indispensable. Sur ce point, je voudrais, reprenant une recommandation du Premier  ministre sénégalais lors de l'ouverture des travaux de MINEDAF VI à Dakar, inviter les quatre grandes  institutions ayant favorisé la tenue de la Conférence de Jomtien à examiner la possibilité d'aider les Etats  africains, individuellement et collectivement, en prenant des mesures spéciales d'appui permettant de conférer  un caractère d'urgence au programme régional pour l'élimination de l'analphabétisme lancé par l'UNESCO en
1984 et dont les orientations, les objectifs et le cadre sont conformes aux dispositions du cadre d'action mondial  pour l'éducation pour tous. Si le Sénégal, pour sa part, a mis sur place les institutions et les mécanismes devant  permettre l'éradication de l'analphabétisme, il est fort à craindre que les contraintes de l'environnement  financier international ne remettent en question ce vaste dessein. C'est pourquoi, dans le domaine de la  formation comme pour les structures à créer telles que l'Institut des langues, notre gouvernement espère  bénéficier de l'appui de l'UNESCO.
21.10 Dans le même ordre d'idées, celui de la solidarité internationale pour le développement, je voudrais,  Monsieur le Directeur général, réaffirmer le soutien de mon pays à votre programme d'action "Priorité Afrique”  et renouveler notre appel aux Etats membres afin qu'ils accroissent les contributions volontaires devant vous  permettre de réaliser ce programme dans les délais fixés. Je saisis l'occasion pour saluer la nomination d'un  ADG Afrique et féliciter M. Kaboré pour l'efficacité avec laquelle il s'acquitte de la mission qui lui a été  confiée.
21.11 Monsieur le Président, nous approuvons les priorités dégagées dans le 26 C/5 et félicitons le  Secrétariat pour les efforts déployés dans sa conception et sa présentation ; les progrès accomplis en matière de  concentration des programmes et de décentralisation des activités opérationnelles sont louables. Ces efforts  renforcent la conviction et la clarté du document qui nous est proposé.
21.12 Monsieur le Directeur général, nous approuvons toutes les initiatives prises, dans tous les champs  majeurs de programme du 26 C/5, pour renforcer la participation de l'Organisation à la mise en oeuvre de la  Décennie mondiale du développement culturel. Cette question est d'un grand intérêt pour mon pays, qui a  toujours soutenu que l'homme est au début et à la fin de tout développement et qui a élaboré une charte  culturelle nationale afin de sauvegarder les éléments fondamentaux de notre identité culturelle. Le Sénégal a  accueilli avec enthousiasme la proclamation de cette Décennie par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et,  en exécution des recommandations relatives au rôle des Etats membres dans la mise en oeuvre de cette  Décennie, a procédé dès le 13 septembre 1989 à l'installation d'un Comité national qui a entrepris un vaste  travail de sensibilisation et de réflexion.
21.13 Par son histoire et sa position géographique privilégiée, le Sénégal a toujours été un carrefour culturel  dynamique, une terre de métissage et d'enrichissement mutuel des civilisations. Nous avons décidé, pour  perpétuer ce rôle, avec le soutien de l'OUA, des intellectuels de la diaspora et du monde entier, d'édifier le  mémorial Gorée-Almadies, un vaste complexe culturel et touristique, qui a reçu le soutien enthousiaste de la  vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale.
21.14 Je suis particulièrement fière d'apprendre aux honorables délégués à cette vingt-sixième session que le  gouvernement sénégalais est dans la phase active de réalisation de ce projet. En effet, les structures de mise en  oeuvre de ce projet, en l'occurrence le Commissariat à la réalisation du mémorial et la Fondation mondiale pour  le mémorial, sont déjà opérationnels. Les antennes de la Fondation mondiale pour ie mémorial, installées aux  Etats-Unis, au Brésil et au Sénégal réalisent déjà des activités promotionnelles et recherchent activement les  fonds nécessaires. Le Sénégal a déjà dégagé sa contrepartie financière ce qui permettra à l'UNESCO d'organiser  le concours international d'architecture du mémorial. Nous espérons que le soutien de l'UNESCO et de la  communauté internationale restera constant jusqu'au moment où le projet sera définitivement au point.
21.15 Pour contribuer à la promotion des échanges culturels, au renforcement de l'appréciation mutuelle des  cultures et à la stimulation de la créativité artistique dans le cadre de la décennie, le gouvernement sénégalais  met en oeuvre deux projets culturels majeurs. Il s'agit d'abord de l'institutionnalisation de la Biennale de Dakar,  dont la première manifestation consacrée aux lettres a eu lieu en décembre 1990 avec le concours efficace de
13   l'Organisation. La seconde manifestation est prévue en décembre 1992 et sera consacrée aux arts ; ensuite, aura  lieu l'organisation d'une exposition itinérante d'art contemporain qui regroupe plus de 170 oeuvres. Cette  exposition vient de faire un périple européen, particulièrement positif, avec des séjours appréciés en France, en  Allemagne et en Autriche. Nous préparons le déroulement de l'étape américaine prévue pour 1992, année de la  commémoration du cinquième centenaire de la rencontre de deux mondes, un des grands projets interculturels  de la Décennie, auquel mon pays veut apporter une contribution essentielle. Répondant favorablement aux  sollicitations de beaucoup d'Etats membres qui souhaitent que l'Île de Gorée soit un site privilégié dans le cadre  de cette commémoration, le gouvernement sénégalais a décidé d'instituer l'organisation annuelle d'un spectacle  "son et lumière” à Gorée. La première de ce spectacle aura lieu en décembre 1991 en prélude a cette  commémoration.
21.16 Mon pays approuve le projet de création, à partir de cette vingt-sixième session et jusqu'en 1997, date  d'achèvement de la Décennie, d'un programme international pour la Décennie financé à l'aide de fonds  extrabudgétaires et il demande à tous les Etats membres de soutenir ce programme par leurs contributions  volontaires.
21.17 Monsieur le Directeur général, la jeunesse est une haute priorité pour mon pays. Nous avons été  fortement impressionnés par le dynamisme, l'esprit d'ouverture et les formes originales et concrètes de  solidarité Nord-Sud des jeunes du monde à l'occasion du troisième Congrès de la Fédération mondiale des  associations, centres et clubs UNESCO, organisé à Dakar en juillet dernier, sous le patronage du Président  Abdou Diouf. Nous appuyons fortement les efforts que l'Organisation déploie en direction de la jeunesse et  notamment le projet mobilisateur 2 : "La jeunesse, pour façonner l'avenir". Nous pensons qu'une large  implication des jeunes dans les programmes de l'Organisation, le renforcement du soutien aux clubs UNESCO  et aux Ecoles associées et l'élargissement de leur assise géographique contribueront positivement au  développement du dialogue interculturel et à l'émergence d'une éthique nouvelle, base d'une culture de la paix,  qui est la pierre angulaire de l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO.
21.18 Monsieur le Président, le champ majeur de programme II intitulé La science pour le progrès et  l'environnement a suscité auprès des scientifiques de mon pays un intérêt particulier, à la fois pour la démarche  adoptée, les objectifs définis et les actions de programmes identifiées. Il s'agit là d'une activité majeure d'autant  plus intéressante qu'elle offre des possibilités de coopération Nord-Sud, mais aussi Sud-Sud fondées sur  l'échange d'expériences, les transferts de technologies, la mise en valeur des ressources océaniques et marines,  l'aménagement des environnements littoraux, la gestion des ressources en eau.
21.19 Monsieur le Président, autant mon pays a apprécié les champs majeurs de programme I, II et III,  autant celui relatif à la communication lui semble manquer d'ambition et d'originalité. Par rapport au consensus  qui avait été scellé à la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale sur cette question si délicate, le  champ majeur de programme IV ne met pas suffisamment l'accent sur l'obligation qui incombe aux pays riches  d'accroître le volume de l'aide aux pays démunis afin de corriger les déséquilibres existants par la promotion  des capacités nationales et d'atténuer les effets des agressions culturelles par une éducation aux médias,  touchant aussi bien les concepteurs et les diffuseurs des messages informatifs que les groupes cibles auxquels ils  sont destinés. Jose espérer que le débat qui aura lieu dans la commission IV nous donnera l'occasion  d'améliorer le projet qui nous est soumis.
21.20 Cela dit, je marque l'accord de mon gouvernement avec les grandes articulations du champ majeur de  programme V, du champ majeur de programme VI, du champ majeur de programme VII, non sans faire  mention spéciale de l'intérêt tout particulier que mon pays attache à tout ce qui concerne les projets d'éducation  en matière de démocratie et de droits de l'homme, en Afrique notamment, afin que la transition vers la  démocratie multipartite s'y déroule loin des à-coups et des tempêtes sociales si lourdes de menaces pour la  stabilité de nos Etats.
21.21 S'agissant des programmes transversaux, ma délégation en approuve le contenu. Elle adhère aux  projets relatifs aux femmes, notamment à ceux traitant spécifiquement de l'amélioration de leur condition et de  l'élargissement de leurs droits.
21.22 Monsieur le Président, le Sénégal a pris acte du consensus qui s'est réalisé autour de l'amendement  japonais et salue les efforts qui ont été déployés pour obtenir un tel résultat. Il appuie la notion de coopération  intellectuelle telle qu'exprimée par certaines délégations et fera connaître son avis sur le forum préconisé  lorsque tous les éclaircissements relatifs à cette idée auront été présentés.
21.23 S'agissant du budget, mon pays regrette que la croissance zéro imposée à l'Organisation limite ses  capacités d'intervention à un moment où l'humanité deshéritée et souffrante a tant besoin d'elle.
21.24 Monsieur le Président, le Sénégal fait sienne la déclaration du ministre espagnol de l'éducation et de la  science relative à la nécessité de veiller à ce que le principe de la rotation sans lequel il n'y a ni égalité, ni  justice dans les relations internationales soit respecté pour tous et appliqué au moyen d'accords concrets, au  niveau aussi bien des organes intergouvernementaux qu'à celui de tous les Etats membres sans exception. C'est  pour affirmer cet attachement aux principes que le Sénégal avait fait acte de candidature à la présidence de la  Conférence générale.
21.25 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est le moment de conclure, et c'est  l'instant que je choisis pour réitérer, au nom du gouvernement sénégalais, l'appel que j'ai lancé en commençant  ce discours. Pour la paix et la réalisation d'un monde réconcilié avec ses valeurs éthiques, il est vital que  l'UNESCO, ne s'écartant point de l'élan humaniste qui l'a créée, demeure le lieu de rencontre de tous les  peuples de la planète. Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre  bienveillante attention.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Senegal, and I now give the floor to Ambassador Ramazani Baya,  head of the delegation of Zaire.
23.1 M. BAYA (République du Zaïre) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, distingués et honorables délégués, nous  adressant pour la première fois à cette auguste assemblée, nous voudrions d'abord saluer les nouveaux Etats  membres - la Lituanie, la Lettonie, l'Estonie et Tuvalu - dont l'admission, qui élargit la grande famille de  l'UNESCO, apporte à tous ses membres la chance unique et immense d'un enrichissement collectif.
23.2 Monsieur le Président, permettez-nous ensuite de vous présenter, au nom de la délégation du Zaïre,  nos félicitations pour votre élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale.
23.3 La vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale se tient, Monsieur le Président, aux lendemains de  vastes changements et mutations politiques opérés à travers le monde. L'Europe de l'Est a vu s'effondrer des  régimes qui pendant près de trois quarts de siècle lui ont assuré une stabilité à toute épreuve. Le Proche-Orient,  où le problème israélo-palestinien demeure entier, a dû faire face à une des guerres les plus meurtrières qu'ait  connues la région. En Afrique, l'apartheid est mis à mal et beaucoup des pays africains s'ouvrent à un système  politique pluraliste. Ainsi, sur les ruines de systèmes politiques hérités de la deuxième guerre mondiale et des  premières années de la décolonisation, naît progressivement un nouvel humanisme fait de tolérance,  d'acceptation de l'autre et s'affirme une société plus ouverte au sein de laquelle devraient être mieux assurés les  libertés fondamentales et les droits de l'homme. Lieu de rayonnement culturel et intellectuel, l'UNESCO a pris  sa part dans cette évolution de l'humanité vers plus de démocratie, plus de justice et plus de solidarité.
23.4 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  honorables délégués, nous avons accueilli et analysé avec minutie le Projet de programme et de budget pour  l'exercice 1992-1993, contenu dans le document 26 C/5. Au terme de cet examen, nous ne pouvons que féliciter  le Directeur général ainsi que l'ensemble du Secrétariat de l'Organisation pour ce travail remarquable. En effet,  les préoccupations des Etats membres exprimées notamment lors de la vingt-cinquième session de la  Conférence générale s'y trouvent fidèlement reflétées, ainsi que la recommandation du Conseil exécutif qui  souhaitait notamment une concentration accrue des activités du programme ainsi que l'amélioration du  fonctionnement de l'Organisation afin de renforcer son rôle au sein de la communauté internationale.
23.5 Du point de vue de la délégation de mon pays, la visibilité, la qualité des activités de l'UNESCO sur le  terrain, constituent le gage de la foi que nos peuples placent dans notre Organisation. C'est dans cette optique  que nous encourageons le Directeur général dans son entreprise de mise en oeuvre des conclusions de l'étude du  Comité spécial sur la décentralisation.
23.6 Lors de son séjour au Zaïre, en mars dernier, à l'occasion de la septième Conférence régionale des  commissions nationales africaines pour l'UNESCO, en marge aussi du Séminaire international sur la forêt  tropicale, patrimoine mondial à préserver, le Directeur général a pu réaliser Combien nos populations, jeunes et
13   adultes, les milieux politiques et des affaires, combien tous ont foi, une foi immense en l'UNESCO, combien  grandes aussi sont les attentes. Attente non seulement de recevoir, mais aussi et surtout, attente de pouvoir  développer ses capacités à donner. Donner et partager. C'est pourquoi nous sommes très favorables au projet de  coopération intellectuelle, initié par la France, ainsi qu'à celui de Forum UNESCO présenté par l'Allemagne  que nous appuyons dans sa conception générale.
23.7 Monsieur le Président, nos Etats vont se substituer aux personnalités comme membres du Conseil  exécutif, aux termes du projet d'amendement de l'Acte constitutif présenté par le Japon. Notre délégation a  autant que faire se peut contribué au texte de consensus qui est soumis à la présente session. Notre souci a été et  reste que soit préservé "l'idéal démocratique de dignité, d'égalité et de respect de la personne humaine”, et que  notre Organisation demeure cette oasis de paix intellectuelle et morale. Aussi nourrissons-nous l'espoir de voir  la nouvelle structure contribuer effectivement à atteindre les objectifs fondamentaux de notre Organisation.
23.8 Monsieur le Président, vous nous permettrez, à ce stade de notre intervention, de formuler quelques  observations relatives à l'exécution du programme.
23.9 Les activités proposées pour répondre aux attentes pressantes et aux besoins urgents des pays les moins  avancés rencontrent notre adhésion ; en ce qui concerne les activités inscrites au programme "Priorité Afrique”,  notre voeu est qu'elles s'intègrent davantage dans une stratégie globale et régionale.
23.10 Nous apprécions par ailleurs l'orientation générale du champ majeur de programme I : L'éducation et  l'avenir. Nous notons en particulier avec satisfaction le rôle dévolu à l'UNESCO et la manière dont elle assume  ses responsabilités dans le suivi et la mise en oeuvre du cadre d'action de la Conférence mondiale sur  l'éducation pour tous. L'éducation de base, constitue la partie la plus visible des activités de l'UNESCO dans  notre pays. Elle concerne la plus grande partie de la population.
23.11 Quant au champ majeur de programme II - La science pour le progrès de l'environnement - il met en  exergue les activités qui doivent permettre à tous les pays de participer à l'aventure scientifique de cette fin de  siècle. Point n'est besoin de vous dire que dans ce domaine aussi, l'écart se creuse, chaque jour davantage entre  le Nord et le Sud. À cet égard, l'UNESCO reste un lieu d'espoir pour tous, tous ceux qui souhaitent accroître  leurs ressources humaines dans tous les domaines, mais particulièrement dans les sciences fondamentales et les  sciences de l'ingénieur. Dans cette perspective, la création des chaires UNESCO est très attendue. Nous  apprécions les activités du Programme MAB auquel nous participons activement, ainsi que toutes les activités  menées en collaboration avec le Programme des Nations Unies pour l'environnement, par le biais de nos parcs  nationaux, plus particulièrement le parc national de la Garamba, qui figure parmi les rares réserves mondiales  du rhinocéros blanc, grâce aussi à la réserve de la biosphère de Luki, de l'écosystème du Mayombe.
23.12 Dans les domaines de la politique scientifique et de la formation en matière de planification et de  gestion du développement scientifique, nous ne soulignerons jamais assez le rôle capital d'assistance de  l'UNESCO aux Etats membres. Aussi avons-nous apprécié l'organisation par le Directeur général, à Kinshasa,  du Séminaire international sur la forêt tropicale humide, patrimoine mondial à préserver. La fonction  scientifique, la fonction économique et sociale de la forêt ont été soulignées à cette occasion. Mais il convient  de souligner également une autre fonction très active en Afrique, la fonction culturelle et spirituelle de la forêt.  La décision de mettre en place une structure universitaire régionale pour la formation des gestionnaires de la  forêt, dans le cadre de l'enseignement universitaire et supérieur du Zaïre, a été prise à l'issue des travaux de ce  Séminaire. Nous ne pouvons que vous en féliciter. Monsieur le Directeur général, nous comptons sur vous et  sur la coopération internationale pour la réalisation de ce projet africain. Pour la réalisation aussi d'un projet  interdisciplinaire et intersectoriel de recherche et de promotion de la dimension culturelle et spirituelle de la  forêt.
23.13 Ce projet de recherche scientifique nous mène directement au champ majeur de programme relatif à la  culture dont nous approuvons l'orientation générale, tout en appelant de tous nos voeux une mobilisation encore  plus grande de ressources et leur affectation à la mise en oeuvre des activités de la Décennie mondiale du  développement culturel. Ce programme souligne à juste titre la nécessité de prendre en compte toutes les  régions du monde dans les choix limités des projets interculturels : nous pensons donc que le projet "Route du  fer" devrait être le point de départ d'un vaste plan de développement des cultures africaines (Plan Africa).
23.14 En ce qui concerne le secteur de la communication, nous faisons nôtres les grands axes du programme  proposé, mais souhaitons néanmoins que des ressources plus importantes soient affectées au Programme
506   international pour le développement de la communication (PIDC) afin de renforcer les capacités des Etats  membres en matière de communication. Le droit d'informer et d'être informé est un droit fondamental de  l'homme ; il garantit sa dignité, son statut de citoyen dans une société démocratique et pluraliste, et accroît sa  capacité d'agent de développement de la société. Au moment où de nombreux pays s'engagent dans la voie de la  démocratie pluraliste, il est impérieux d'accompagner ce processus par un soutien plus résolu aux médias. C'est  aussi pourquoi nous voulons participer et contribuer aux activités sectorielles du PIDC et du Programme  général d'information (PGI), et mettre à la disposition des Etats membres de la région, dans le cadre du  Programme intergouvernemental d'informatique (PII), les compétences, les capacités humaines et techniques et  l'expérience de l'ASSYST, centre zaïrois spécialisé de production et de maintenance d'ordinateurs, de formation  continue des personnels spécialisés.
23.15 Monsieur le Président, pour passer à un tout autre chapitre, nous souhaitons vivement que les activités  du champ majeur de programme relatif aux sciences sociales et humaines soient consolidées. À la Conférence  générale de Sofia, notre délégation avait souhaité que le rôle de la philosophie au sein des sciences humaines  soit réhabilité. Nous apprécions donc à leur juste valeur les nouvelles propositions concernant la philosophie et  l'éthique. Au moment où le vent de la démocratie souffle sur le monde, le rôle des sciences sociales, les centres  de recherche en sciences sociales doivent être renforcés, notamment le CERDAS, Centre d'études et de  recherches en sciences sociales pour l'Afrique subsaharienne.
23.16 Démocratie et développement. Mais aussi jeunesse. Nous approuvons et appuyons donc le projet  mobilisateur : "La jeunesse, pour façonner l'avenir”.
23.17 Démocratie et développement. Mais aussi paix, droits de l'homme, élimination de toutes les formes de  discrimination. La démocratie est un processus, une école. Une école, non pas de métier, mais une école de  culture, qui prend le temps de s'enraciner lentement dans les consciences et dans les moeurs. Qui dit culture dit  différence. La différence appelle la tolérance. Tous les peuples passent par cette école, avec leur identité  culturelle propre. À travers des soubresauts inhérents aux mutations des sociétés humaines. Notre peuple, nos  peuples, vivent aujourd'hui ces mutations, ces soubresauts, avec leur identité propre, à leur rythme, à leur façon.  Nous sommes heureux qu'un spécialiste zaïrois ait pu apporter une contribution appréciée au Forum  international "Culture et démocratie" organisé à Prague en septembre dernier. Nous encourageons donc  l'UNESCO et la coopération internationale à oeuvrer comme le dit le Directeur général, "pour examiner les  différentes expériences de transition démocratique et étudier les moyens de bâtir une nouvelle citoyenneté, plus  consciente, plus responsable”. Nous souscrivons donc au renforcement des activités relatives à ce  programme VII.
23.18 Au vu de l'ensemble des programmes que nous venons de passer succinctement en revue, on ne peut  accuser l'UNESCO de manquer d'ambition, même si par ailleurs les contraintes financières ont imposé des  limites à son action et qu'elles ont nécessité un resserrement de ses activités tant il est vrai qu'on ne peut "faire  que la politique de ses moyens”. Aussi, est-ce en connaissance de cause, conscients à la fois des besoins mais  aussi des limitations et des contraintes réelles, que nous approuvons le plafond budgétaire provisoire de
415.143.000 dollars pour les titres I à VII du budget.
23.19 Monsieur le Président, avant de clore notre propos, vous nous permettrez enfin d'exprimer le voeu de  voir l'UNESCO demeurer toujours cette maison du droit, de la paix, de la démocratie fondée sur l'égalité et le  respect de l'autre. Maison unique où la coopération intellectuelle pourra s'exercer dans la liberté et l'équité.  Nous vous remercions.
24, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Zaire. I now call on HE. Mr Bernard Nottage, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Bahamas.
25.1 Mr NOTTAGE (Bahamas):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, heads of delegation,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is with a great deal of pleasure that I take this opportunity to address this  distinguished session of the plenary of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring greetings to all delegations  on behalf of the Government and people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas and extend the hand of  friendship and cordiality to all delegations present. Permit me, as well, Mr President, to extend to you my  congratulations on your election to preside over this Conference and to all of the distinguished members of the  Bureau, similarly elected to serve with you.
25.2 Mr President, some nine years ago, the Bahamas took its seat as a full member of UNESCO. Since that  time it has not always been possible for us to attend the intervening sessions of the General Conference but  notwithstanding this, the Bahamas has followed closely the tremendous work which UNESCO has undertaken  and has benefited tremendously from the contributions which the Organization has made in the fields of  education, science and culture, particularly the Caribbean region of which the Bahamas is a part. If anything,  Mr President, I beg this twenty-sixth session of the Conference, and UNESCO as a whole, to begin to pay more  and special attention to the particular needs of the small States of which the nations of the Caribbean are a vital  part. It was heartening, therefore, Mr President, that the Director-General has recognized this area of special  concern and has already met in a special forum to hear of and to identify some of the particular concerns of  small States. I hope that in the very near future, UNESCO will see its way possible to establish within the  Bureau a special division whose aims and objectives will be to relate in a special way to the needs and  aspirations of small States, particularly as they affect the functioning of such entities within the larger body of  UNESCO.
25.3 Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, which this Conference is now debating  offers considerable substance - and I wish to record at the outset my delegation's full support for the broad  outlines of the requirements of work as well as the framework of co-operation which is envisaged in the plan.  No one can deny that UNESCO continues to justify its existence through the gallant efforts that have been  made in bringing improvements to developed and developing countries in the vital areas of education, science  and culture. These efforts are easily seen in the establishment of UNESCO missions that assist governments, in  its promotion of the international exchange of knowledge, and in the organization of conferences such as this  twenty-sixth session. There is power in meetings of this nature because there is power in the sharing of ideas, in  the harnessing of knowledge and in the generation of new energies towards shared visions of the future.
25.4 My country, the Bahamas, with a population of 250,000 people, is made up of some 700 islands and  cays spread out over 100,000 square miles of some of the clearest waters in the world. Trying to offer free  education from ages 5 to 16 in approximately 200 schools in 22 islands is not without significant challenges.  Communication has always been a problem in the governance of archipelagic States and so is educational  development. Educational planning and policies must grapple with the trade-off between equity and efficiency.
25.5 Being unable to properly police our extensive territorial waters presents another challenge - that of  illegal immigration. For more than 25 years, the people of the Bahamas have fed, clothed, housed, educated  and employed many of the Haitian nationals who risked their lives across treacherous waters in unsafe boats, in  search of freedom, food and fortune. This act of goodwill by Bahamians has nevertheless been a drain on the  Bahamian economy and, as a result, social health and educational services have been stretched to the limit.
25.6 The recent overthrow of President Aristide, the first freely chosen Haitian leader since 1804, was a  heavy blow against democracy - a blow which resounded throughout our commonwealth of islands. Countries  such as ours, which lie in proximity to Haiti, will continue to be havens to such economic and political  refugees, but our economy is no longer able to support such large numbers. Let me illustrate the type of  problem that arises. The majority of such illegal immigrants are unable to read or write in their own language  as well as in the English language which is spoken in the Bahamas. This limits their integration and their  access to job opportunities. Their children who enter Bahamian schools are at a serious disadvantage because  instruction is in English and most of them speak only Haitian Creole. Bahamian teachers neither speak Creole  nor are they trained to teach English as a second language. This state of affairs has dire consequences, not only  for the ability to provide appropriate educational services, but it results in a growing number of disaffected  illiterates and threatens to create an aggrieved underclass in our country. Clearly, a reformulation of literacy  and basic education strategies to counteract this is essential and the Bahamas will be seeking guidance and  assistance from UNESCO and similar agencies to meet this challenge. For this reason we strongly support  Major Programme Area I, which addresses such concerns.
25.7 Another challenge that we are beginning to come to grips with is the incidence of teen-age pregnancy.  Too many Bahamian teenagers are having children and are thrust into rearing them without the prerequisite  parental skills. The most adversely affected by these are, of course, the females themselves, and the children  who are born under these circumstances. One resultant effect is that many such females do not complete their  secondary schooling, and many of the children are brought up in single-parent homes. The males brought up  under such circumstances seem to be more adversely socially dislocated and are more likely themselves to drop  out of school, to under-perform and to fall victims to crime and drug abuse. Indeed, today males in our country,  especially between the ages of 16 and 26, are said to be in crisis.
25.8 In order to counteract this, family life and health education has been introduced as a mandatory subject  in the school curriculum and it is expected that, successfully implemented, this will go a long way towards  reversing these trends.
259 In the Bahamas, access to basic education is not a problem for women. In a population where females  outnumber males 106:100, the life expectancy for the male is only 64.2 years compared to 71.06 for females. As  many as 40 years ago, women accounted for more than 50 per cent of those enrolled in primary school, and 48  per cent of those enrolled at secondary level. Today, while females account for 48 per cent of those enrolled at  primary level, they account for 51 per cent at the secondary level. Of those attending accredited tertiary level  institutions in the Bahamas, women account for approximately 63 per cent. In addition, it has been reported  that at primary and secondary levels, females outperform males.
25.10 Further, in all major areas of the economy, in tourism and banking for example, in education and in  the professions, women have taken their places. Only in the area of politics do men still dominate and even that  area is changing.
25.11 In the Bahamas, therefore, as I suspect 1s emerging in other countries, emphasis must be placed on  assessing social dislocation among young males. A trend is emerging where such males are becoming high-  school drop-outs who are joining the ranks of the illiterates and the unemployed or becoming drug addicts,  criminals and social deviants in increasing numbers.
25.12 Therefore, while we remain fully committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for our women, we  must not allow an emerging problem with males, which is potentially very serious, to go unheeded. We cannot  afford to perpetuate gender bias in either direction. Both men and women who are recipients of quality  education are needed to ensure the necessary human development and social advancement of the Bahamas as  well as the world.
25.13 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our fast-changing world demands sophisticated communication  mechanisms. Not only is there a need to bridge time and distance between all countries, but greater efforts must  be made to communicate knowledge as it unfolds. Educators with the grave responsibility of teaching history  and geography are finding it difficult to keep students’ knowledge abreast of events because of the speed at  which history unfolds. Present textbooks have Ronald Reagan in the White House, Nelson Mandela in prison,  the Germanies still divided and the Baltic States as part of the USSR. But we now know that the Baltic States  are fully independent and are indeed a part of UNESCO, and that Nelson Mandela - though free from prison -  still has no vote and travels the world in search of true independence for the people of South Africa.
25.14 Methods must therefore be developed to communicate such new history and geography into classrooms  around the globe as they take place. The development of audio and video cassettes on environmental,  geographical and political issues must receive priority along with textbook development by Member States.  Communication in the form of distance education, because of its flexibility and adaptability, can make a global  impact. The inherent sharing process has the propensity to meet many present and future educational  challenges.
25.15 In 1985, the Government of the Bahamas undertook a pilot study in distance education. A programme  for in-service teacher training and upgrading was acknowledged as a fundamental means of eventually  upgrading the entire education system which because of the dispersal of the population includes many schools  with miniscule enrolments necessitating multigrade teaching, and which still include, especially in such  schools, untrained teachers. The project therefore sought to upgrade teacher competence in the core subject  areas of mathematics, language arts, social studies and general science. Teachers in three major islands were  able to upgrade their skills without having to leave their jobs, their homes or their families.
25.16 States such as the Bahamas stand to gain much from the development and implementation of a system  of distance education which embraces all levels of our educational system, as it will prevent many of our  children in remote islands from being involuntarily impaired by the limited educational opportunities which  they currently receive. Through improving teacher competences, equity for students will improve.
25.17 Mr President, let us now turn to science. The world is a complex system of environments, each  characterized by its own peculiar customs, geography, history and socio-economic structure but each one  changing and each concerned with the need to change with the times. But does change for all mean progress
13   for all? While the sum total of change in the world may not be seen as progress by all, all must agree that  whatever progress has been realized was made possible through science and technology. One need only look at  advances in air transportation, communication, and the management of the world's energy resources to  recognize that we live in a technological age.
25.18 Environmental issues are being raised everyday. What can we do to ensure the further safety of our  planet Earth? Having only light industrial activities, the Bahamas contributes little to global atmospheric  pollution, but like some other islands and coastal communities, we have a lot to lose from its consequences.  Some of our islands are barely ten feet above sea level and many are much lower. So we are clearly vulnerable  to a major rise of the sea which could result from a rise in global temperature.
25.19 As a part of our initiative to help reduce the build-up of greenhouse gases - we have outlined four  major objectives: first, reduction of deforestation and other unsound agricultural practices; second,  minimization of the buming of dead trees, grass, and the prompt extinction of bush fires; third, the  encouragement of afforestation and the planting of as many trees as possible; and finally, minimization of the  use of fossil fuels and optimization of the use of solar and wind energy where this is possible.
25.20 Another of the environmental concerns in my country is the indiscriminate dumping of waste by cruise  ships and the risk of pollution from merchant ships which traverse our waters. This threatens the marine  environment and can have detrimental effects upon our small fishing and our large tourism industries. The  increase in cruise ship vacations will compound this pollution problem, which deserves the attention of the  international community. These environmental concerns are often highlighted during our observances of Earth  Day, World Health Day and Environment Day. These concerns, however, must be kept at the forefront at all  times if any positive changes are to be realized.
25.21 Mr President, the role of education in the twenty-first century, then, in our environment must be to  stimulate an awareness and an appreciation of as well as a tolerance for a technological age of increasing  complexity. Without technology, there can be no progress. Education must thus provide the basis for  understanding and assimilating technology. An education system must prepare its environment to evaluate  technology, to accept its 'good' and to question its bad’. An environment must evaluate risks against choices  and, most importantly, it must not allow technology or the lack of it to be its destruction. In the Bahamas, we  do not have at present all the necessary human resources that will prevent such destruction. In its efforts to  safeguard the environment, UNESCO needs to continue providing technical assistance to all of its Member  States. However, more needs to be done via financial assistance to those countries that wish to carry out  scientific research in this area. Perhaps an effort can be made to facilitate a more even distribution of the  research projects which UNESCO supports, and more consideration should be given to smaller developing  countries such as ours.
25.22 Finally, Mr President, I come to the area of cultural development. The representation of the Bahamas  at the fourth Meeting of Ministers of Culture and Cultural Policy-Makers of Latin America and the Caribbean,  and the first Regional Meeting of National Committees for the World Decade for Cultural Development, which  were recently held in Havana, Cuba, demonstrate our country's interest in the activities of the decade.  UNESCO's emphasis on "Culture: past, present and future’ has furthered the regional integration movement, as  is evidenced in the four successive meetings of ministers of culture and cultural policy-makers of Latin America  and the Caribbean.
25.23 For its part, the Bahamas, being cognizant of the ever-increasing role of cultural promotion in national  development, has undertaken a survey under the auspices of UNESCO with the objective of formulating a  national cultural policy. We therefore welcome the UNESCO initiative for global cultural development. The  year 1992 marks the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus’ landing in the New World on the Bahamian  island of San Salvador, which the Director-General visited only recently to attend the Conference on the World  Environment. In commemoration of the quincentenary, we have initiated a number of national projects of a  cultural nature which include the construction of a national museum, a national art gallery and the  establishment of a national institute of historical and anthropological studies. The latter will not only serve as a  commemoration of the quincentenary, but will provide continuing research into the history and culture of the  aboriginal Bahamians, the Lucayans and Arawaks, who are now extinct; it will record the oral history of those  persons of African and European extraction who now comprise the population; and it will provide for an  exchange of cultural activities through the display of artefacts, story-telling, and various performing arts  activities.
25.24 Distinguished delegates, Mr President, I shall end as I began - acknowledging the very meaningful  contribution UNESCO has made to the lives of those who live in developing and developed countries. Because  of UNESCO's assistance in the areas of science, education and culture, human life has indeed been qualitatively  enhanced. And I would therefore encourage those States who stand aloof from UNESCO to reconsider their  positions and to join us in this commendable adventure. Thank you.
26. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Bahamas, and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Mouhoussine  Nacro, Minister of Secondary and Higher Education and head of the delegation of Burkina Faso.
27.1 M. NACRO (Burkina Faso) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de  délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais, tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, au nom du  gouvernement de mon pays, le Burkina Faso, et en mon nom propre, vous féliciter pour votre élection à la  présidence de notre Conférence générale. Avec votre élection, Monsieur le Président, c'est notre continent tout  entier qui est honoré par toute la communauté intellectuelle mondiale et nous en sommes fiers. Je suis persuadé  que, grâce à votre sagesse et à votre grande connaissance des affaires de l'UNESCO, nos travaux seront  couronnés de succès et notre continent, l'Afrique, en sortira grandi. Je tiens également à féliciter les membres  du Conseil exécutif, le Directeur général de l'UNESCO et le Secrétariat pour avoir préparé avec succès la tenue  de la présente session de la Conférence générale. Je saisis cette occasion pour exprimer au peuple français et au  gouvernement français notre sincère gratitude pour toutes les facilités que la France, en qualité de pays hôte,  accorde à notre Organisation. Je voudrais enfin, Monsieur le Président, évoquer la mémoire de certaines  personnalités disparues au cours de ces dernières années et dont l'action, à des titres divers, s'est inscrite dans le  droit fil des compétences de notre Organisation. Je citerai parmi elles, M. Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, Sous-  Directeur général pour les relations extérieures et ancien Président de la Conférence générale. À ce titre, je  voudrais également rendre un hommage particulier à un fils de l'Afrique, ancien membre du Conseil exécutif,  homme de culture, de sagesse et de raison, j'ai nommé M. Amadou Hampâté Ba. La riche et immense  bibliothèque qu'il était n'a pas brûlé en vain, parce qu'il a su, de son vivant, échanger avec les autres les  connaissances dont il était dépositaire et, surtout, parce qu'il laisse à la postérité, consignés dans ses  nombreuses publications, les enseignements, les expériences et le savoir du maître, de la parole et de la vie.
27.2 Monsieur le Président, nonobstant le climat général de détente internationale, il demeure encore de nos  jours de nombreux foyers de tension entretenus par le racisme, l'intolérance, l'apartheid et le refus de l'autre. Il  n'y a pas de solution de rechange au relâchement de ces tensions qui puisse être durable et stable si les crises ne  sont pas résolues et leurs causes définitivement éliminées. Tous les pays et plus particulièrement les nôtres,  ceux du tiers monde, subissent les effets de la crise économique. Le fossé qui s'est creusé entre pays développés  et pays en développement ne cesse de s'agrandir. Il nous paraît, en effet, que la fin de la division du monde en  blocs idéologiques antagonistes ne semble pas avoir atténué la bipolarisation du monde : celle qui le partage en  pays riches et en pays pauvres. Sur cette question, il me plaît de remercier le Président de la République  française, M. François Mitterrand, pour tout ce qu'il fait pour sensibiliser les nantis à la cause des pauvres. La  destruction de l'environnement, le chômage, la drogue, la délinquance, voilà, Monsieur le Président, d'autres  fléaux qui s'enracinent et se propagent partout dans le monde. Nous restons convaincus que pour enrayer ces  fléaux et leur trouver des solutions justes et durables, il faut unir les efforts de la communauté internationale  tout entière.
27.3 Au cours de la présente session de la Conférence générale, Monsieur ie Président, nous allons adopter  le Programme et budget pour 1992-1993. Les projets soumis à notre examen sont clairs et précis. Le document
26 C/5 traduit les principales orientations consignées dans le Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995, à savoir : la  paix, le développement et la protection de l'environnement qui sont, effectivement, les grands défis auxquels  l'humanité se trouve confrontée à la veille du XXIe siècle. Ma délégation apprécie particulièrement la  concentration du programme et le recentrage des priorités qui nous sont proposés et le fait qu'ils aient été  élaborés après une large consultation des parties concernées et une évaluation des activités menées depuis 1990.  Outre les renforcements budgétaires qu'elles permettent, leur mise en oeuvre respective se fera avec plus  d'efficacité et plus de chance de réussite. Nous notons avec beaucoup de satisfaction le fait qu'une grande part  des ressources humaines et matérielles de l'Organisation est consacrée à un ensemble d'activités qualifiées de  "hautement prioritaires”, telles l'éducation fondamentale et l'alphabétisation, la protection de l'environnement,  la promotion de l'enseignement supérieur et la recherche, la libre circulation de l'information, la promotion des  droits de l'homme et l'élimination de l'apartheid. Notre satisfaction, Monsieur le Président, est d'autant plus
13   grande qu'il s'agit, dans ces domaines, de répondre aux besoins spécifiques des pays les moins avancés.  Permettez-moi de faire quelques observations générales sur certaines actions prévues dans les champs majeurs  du programme.
27.4 Deux points du champ majeur de programme I retiennent l'attention de ma délégation : il s'agit des  actions qui visent à l'extension de l'alphabétisation et de l'enseignement supérieur.
27.5 Le Burkina Faso, dont le taux d'analphabétisme avoisine les 82 % dans la tranche d'âge des 15 ans et  plus, a entrepris de mener des actions vigoureuses pour promouvoir l'alphabétisation des jeunes et des adultes,  et notamment celle des femmes. Créé à cet effet, le Ministère de l'enseignement de base et de l'alphabétisation  de masse a lancé diverses initiatives en vue de l'élaboration d'un plan intégré d'élimination de l'analphabétisme.  On peut citer, entre autres actions : la création d'un Comité national de mise en oeuvre du plan intégré  d'élimination de l'analphabétisme ; l'organisation de nombreuses campagnes d'alphabétisation à travers tout le  pays ; la création de centres permanents d'alphabétisation et de formation. Le problème particulier de  l'alphabétisation constitue donc, comme vous pouvez le constater, l'un des soucis majeurs des autorités de mon  pays. De grandes opérations ont déjà été menées, comme il a été indiqué plus haut, et d'autres vont l'être  prochainement. Malheureusement, la modicité de nos moyens ne nous permet pas d'intensifier ces opérations à  la hauteur de nos besoins. Aussi voudrais-je réitérer ici l'appel que, voici deux ans, je lançais de cette tribune à  notre Organisation afin qu'elle soutienne les efforts que mon pays déploie pour combattre l'analphabétisme.
27.6 En ce qui conceme le second point, c'est-à-dire l'enseignement supérieur, ma délégation note avec  beaucoup de satisfaction que les crédits alloués à la mise en oeuvre des activités prévues connaissent une  augmentation notable par rapport à ceux de l'exercice précédent. Nous attendons de l'UNESCO que, dans le  cadre des activités qui seront retenues pour 1992-1993, elle apporte son soutien au Conseil africain et malgache  pour l'enseignement supérieur (CAMES). Le CAMES, Monsieur le Président, a été créé il y a 23 ans par les  chefs d'Etat de 15 pays africains pour promouvoir l'enseignement supérieur et la recherche, harmoniser les  programmes de l'enseignement supérieur et développer la coordination et la coopération interuniversitaires.  Quatre importants programmes ont été mis sur pied à ce jour par cette institution. Le premier programme  concerne les comités consultatifs chargés de l'évaluation et de la promotion des enseignants du supérieur et des  chercheurs. À ce jour, plus de 1,100 enseignants et chercheurs en ont bénéficié. Le deuxième programme est  celui des concours d'agrégation en droit, en économie et gestion et en médecine humaine et pharmacie. Le  troisième programme est celui de la reconnaissance et de l'équivalence des diplômes, des titres et des grades de  l'enseignement supérieur. Enfin, le quatrième programme concerne la médecine traditionnelle et la  pharmacopée africaines. Devant une tâche aussi immense et face aux nombreuses difficultés rencontrées, il était  nécessaire que la communauté internationale se mobilise. Aussi, le Burkina Faso se fait un devoir de demander  à la Conférence générale d'approuver le projet de résolution 26 C/DR.288, qu'il présente conjointement avec  d'autres Etats membres.
27.7 Ma délégation apprécie les différentes actions proposées au titre du champ majeur de programme II  portant sur "La science pour le progrès et l'environnement”. Pays sahélien, comme vous le savez, le Burkina  Faso est confronté à une désertification progressive. Aussi, nous appuyons les actions proposées pour combattre  la dégradation de l'environnement. Nous demandons que l'UNESCO apporte son soutien à l'Observatoire du  Sahara et du Sahel, qui sera chargé de surveiller le processus de désertification. C'est pourquoi, tout en se  félicitant de la participation de l'UNESCO à la préparation de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur  l'environnement et le développement, qui doit se tenir au Brésil en 1992, nous attirons l'attention sur la  nécessité de prendre en compte les préoccupations environnementales spécifiques de nos pays. Toujours dans ce  domaine, les pays membres de la Communauté économique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO) ont décidé de la  création d'un centre d'échange et de perfectionnement des formateurs dans les différents domaines du  développement rural : l'Institut supérieur de pédagogie agricole (ISPA). Ce projet de coopération technique  entre pays africains devrait bénéficier de l'appui catalyseur de l'UNESCO. Cela permettra de réaliser des  progrès rapides tout en limitant les coûts dans les domaines de la formation de formateurs et de la production  des matériels pédagogiques appropriés à notre contexte et aux besoins spécifiques d'un développement durable.
27.8 Ma délégation voudrait féliciter le Directeur général et le Secrétariat d'avoir tenu compte de nos  préoccupations dans l'élaboration du champ majeur de programme IH intitulé "Culture : passé, présent, avenir",  pour avoir su prendre toute la mesure de la dimension culturelle du développement, notamment dans mon pays  où l'UNESCO apporte une contribution significative au Festival panafricain du cinéma de Ouagadougou  (FESPACO), au Salon international de l'artisanat de Ouagadougou (SIAO) et à l'Institut des peuples noirs.
27.9 Le champ majeur de programme IV relatif à "La communication au service de l'humanité" a  également retenu notre attention, notamment les activités visant le renforcement des infrastructures, des  capacités de production endogènes et du savoir-faire des pays en développement ainsi que celles du Programme  international pour le développement et la communication (PIDC).
27.10 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de terminer cette allocution en réitérant le soutien total de mon  pays à l'action entreprise par le Directeur général, dans le cadre du programme "Priorité Afrique" adopté par la  Conférence générale à sa précédente session, pour rénover, dynamiser et renforcer la coopération de l'UNESCO  avec notre continent, en visant notamment le développement des capacités des institutions de formation  supérieure.
27.11 Nous saluons toutes les initiatives prises çà et là pour améliorer la qualité du travail accompli à  l'UNESCO et renforcer la compréhension mutuelle des nations. À ce sujet, nous mentionnerons les mesures  suivantes : premièrement, les réformes administratives entreprises par le Directeur général ; deuxièmement, les  amendements préconisés par le Japon, autour desquels un consensus s'est dégagé au niveau des groupes  régionaux ; troisièmement, les propositions faites par l'Allemagne et la France, au sujet desquelles nous  pensons qu'une définition claire des missions est nécessaire pour éviter toute confusion avec celles d'instances  déjà existantes.
27.12 Pour finir, Monsieur le Président, en même temps que je salue l'admission de la Lettonie, de la  Lituanie, de l'Estonie et de Tuvalu en qualité de membres de l'UNESCO, je lance un appel à ceux qui ont quitté  l'Organisation de bien vouloir nous rejoindre, afin que l'idéal d'universalité de l'UNESCO s'accomplisse  également dans sa composition. Je vous remercie.
28. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Burkina Faso. I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Charles Etzer,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate and head of the delegation of Haiti.
29.1  M.ETZER (Haïti) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, honorables délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est  au nom du Président légitime d'Haïti, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, du Chef du gouvernement René Préval et au nom  de ma délégation, que je voudrais tout d'abord vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes sincères félicitations  pour votre élection, à cette vingt-sixième session, à la présidence de la Conférence générale et vous souhaiter  beaucoup de succès dans l'accomplissement de la mission qui vient de vous être confiée. Je saisis également  cette occasion pour remercier votre prédécesseur, M. Anwar Ibrahim, pour le talent avec lequel il a conduit les  travaux de la vingt-cinquième session, et féliciter le Président et les membres du Conseil exécutif pour leur  dévouement exemplaire. Je ne saurais omettre, enfin, de féliciter chaleureusement, M. Federico Mayor,  Directeur général de l'UNESCO, et l'ensemble du Secrétariat, pour la qualité des documents, élaborés en  coopération étroite avec le Conseil exécutif, sur la base d'une large consultation des Etats membres, des  commissions nationales, des organisations internationales, gouvernementales et non gouvernementales ainsi  que des personnalités éminentes du monde de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture.
29.2 Cette vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO se situe à un tournant capital de  l'histoire contemporaine. Les événements qui, durant ces derniers mois et aujourd'hui encore, ont marqué et  continuent de marquer l'évolution politique, économique et culturelle de nombreux pays traduisent de toute  évidence une nouvelle manière d'être des peuples et des Etats en quête d'une démocratie à visage humain, c'est-  à-dire d'une démocratie où l'homme peut non seulement exercer pleinement ses droits de citoyen, mais aussi  avoir accès à l'éducation, à la culture et aux bienfaits de la science. L'UNESCO, dans les limites de ses sphères  d'action et d'influence, s'est toujours inscrite dans la logique de cette quête. Voilà pourquoi cette vingt-sixième  session de la Conférence générale, considérant les luttes démocratiques en cours un peu partout, se déroule dans  un contexte tout à fait particulier.
29.3 Venus du monde entier, en majorité de pays en voie de développement, nous sommes ici dans cette  enceinte pour adopter le Programme et budget pour 1992-1993 et chercher à rendre plus efficaces les  mécanismes de fonctionnement de l'Organisation. En même temps parviennent à notre sensibilité et à notre  réflexion les cris d'espoir de plusieurs centaines de millions d'hommes, dont nous sommes en quelque sorte les  représentants. Aussi, nous ne pouvons rester indifférents à leurs appels, car quel sens donner à nos efforts si
13   ceux dont le sort nous préoccupe ici sont privés de liberté et des moyens nécessaires aux initiatives et au  dialogue qu'implique la mise en oeuvre des programmes faisant l'objet de nos débats ?
294 Cela dit, vous comprenez tout de suite la situation particulière de la délégation haïtienne que je  conduis. Depuis la nuit du 29 au 30 septembre dernier, le peuple haïtien vit une nouvelle tragédie. Cette nuit-là,  un coup d'Etat militaire écrase dans le sang une démocratie à laquelle, après plusieurs années de luttes et de  sacrifices, ce peuple avait fini par donner naissance. Plus d'un millier de morts et beaucoup plus de blessés. Sur  tout le pays, une terreur fasciste s'est abattue. Les quartiers populaires vivent l'enfer : persécutions, arrestations,  disparitions, exécutions - autant de pratiques qui assassinent les droits de l'homme et du citoyen. Haïti : un pays  que plus de 30 ans de duvaliérisme ont couvert d'incertitudes et de souffrances. À chaque fois qu'un rayon  d'espoir brille à l'horizon, les choses finissent par tourner au cauchemar. Aujourd'hui encore, après sept mois de  cheminement démocratique, du haut de cette tribune le nom d'Haïti me parvient dans un bruit de bottes  ensanglantées, accompagné du crépitement de balles et des cris de victimes innocentes ; tout cela sur un fond de  cadavres.
29.5 Le 16 décembre dernier, pour la première fois de son histoire, le peuple haïtien dans sa grande  majorité avait pris part à des élections libres et démocratiques pour élire, par 67 % des voix, le citoyen Jean-  Bertrand Aristide Président de la République d'Haïti. Elections qui eurent lieu avec l'assistance de l'OEA et de  l'ONU et en- présence de nombreux observateurs étrangers. Aussi, face à l'assassinat de la jeune démocratie  haïtienne, le monde entier s'est ému et, de tous les gouvernements démocratiques et amis d'Haïti, sont venues  des déclarations condamnant le coup d'Etat et exigeant le retour du Président élu dans ses fonctions légitimes.  Dès lors que la démocratie s'impose comme une valeur universelle sans référence de couleur, de religion et de  latitude, personne, aucun gouvernement ni aucun démocrate digne de ce nom, ne peut rester indifférent au  drame que vit actuellement la République d'Haïti. C'est ainsi que l'Organisation des Etats américains cherche  par tous les moyens, conformément à sa Charte et aux accords qui la régissent, à faire reculer les putschistes et  à assurer le retour du Président Aristide. L'ONU et la CEE agissent de même. Toute aide est suspendue ; l'OEA  va jusqu'à appliquer un embargo, lequel est suivi par d'autres Etats, notamment la France.
29.6 Cela dit, je profite de l'occasion pour remercier, au nom du peuple haitien et du Président Jean-  Bertrand Aristide, tous les gouvernements du continent américain et tous les Etats membres de l'ONU qui  apportent leur soutien à la lutte pour le changement et la démocratie en Haïti. Un remerciement tout particulier  au gouvernement vénézuelien qui a offert l'hospitalité au Président Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Une hospitalité qui  ramène notre mémoire à près de deux siècles en arrière alors qu'Haïti, première République libérée de  l'esclavagisme, apportait son appui en hommes et en matériel aux révolutionnaires latino-américains,  notamment à Francisco Miranda et à Simon Bolivar le libertador, qui séjourna six mois dans la nouvelle  République. Je remercie également le Secrétaire général de l'ONU, M. Pérez de Cuéilar, et le Secrétaire général  de l'OEA, M. Joao Clemente Soares, pour leur engagement personnel aux côtés du peuple haïtien. Mes  remerciements vont aussi à M. Federico Mayor qui, en tant que Directeur général de l'UNESCO, a lancé "un  appel solennel et ferme pour que le respect des droits de l'homme soit assuré et le processus démocratique soit  poursuivi. Cet appel s'adresse également à la communauté internationale afin que tout ce qui est en son pouvoir  soit entrepris, dans l'immédiat, pour le rétablissement de l'ordre constitutionnel et, par la suite, pour épargner  au peuple haïtien les conséquences d'une situation économique et sociale insoutenable”.
29.7 Peut-être la Conférence générale voudrait-elle voter, à son tour, à l'unanimité une résolution  condamnant le coup de force des militaires haïtiens et réclamant le rétablissement du Président Aristide dans  ses fonctions légitimes.
298 Les propos de M. Mayor renvoient d'une certaine manière aux relations logiques existant entre les  objectifs ou les démarches de l'UNESCO et ceux de la démocratie. En effet, les conditions d'existence des  groupes sociaux principalement concernés par les programmes de l'Organisation ne sont point indépendantes  des systèmes politiques dont relèvent ces groupes. Et la mise en oeuvre de ces programmes exige des espaces  relationnels bien déterminés où les structures et pratiques à la fois politiques et sociales doivent permettre leur  efficacité. Là où il n'existe pas de volonté politique pour un réel épanouissement de l'humain, autrement dit là  où règnent la dictature et un mépris total à l'égard des classes pauvres, les efforts de l'UNESCO n'atteindront  jamais pleinement leurs buts, faute de valeurs démocratiques et humanistes. Les militaires et civils qui ont  assassiné la jeune démocratie haïtienne et qui règnent aujourd'hui par la force sur la population s'inscrivent  dans la tradition d'une minorité dominante toujours indifférente aux souffrances du peuple et ne s'attachant qu'à  leurs seuls privilèges. Pour ces militaires et civils, la misère atroce dans laquelle vit la majeure partie des  Haïtiens relève de l'ordre normal des choses ; aussi, pour eux, cette population n'a point besoin du savoir et des
514   autres bienfaits qu'apporte l'UNESCO. Aussi étonnant que cela puisse paraître, souvent l'on entend des  membres de cette minorité affirmer que le peuple est heureux tel qu'il est, qu’il n'a pas besoin d'être alphabétisé,  de recevoir une formation, de s'enrichir culturellement, de mieux se soigner, bref de vivre autrement.
299 La présidence de Jean-Bertrand Aristide et son gouvernement, par le changement démocratique et  l'humanisme qu'ils prônent, se situent nettement à l'opposé de ceux qui ont usurpé le pouvoir. Aux yeux de ces  derniers, ce président et ce gouvernement sont coupables d'avoir voulu combattre le trafic de la drogue et la  corruption, coupables d'avoir voulu réduire la pauvreté, coupables d'avoir respecté les droits de l'homme,  coupables enfin d'avoir voulu alphabétiser le peuple et l'arracher à sa pauvreté. Face à tout cela, l'UNESCO fait  presque figure de victime, car ses efforts n'ont pas grande importance pour les putschistes et leurs alliés.
29.10 A la veille de ce troisième millénaire, les temps ont changé. Il n'est plus possible aux gouvernements  étrangers, à l'opinion et aux instances internationales, de fermer les yeux et de tolérer en leur sein des dictateurs  ayant renversé un pouvoir élu démocratiquement. C'est ce qui explique l'immense réprobation qui frappe  aujourd'hui le gouvernement du général Cédras-Honorat. Précisons que tous les gouvernements étrangers et  toutes les institutions internationales continuent de reconnaître le Président Aristide comme le président  légitime de la République d'Haïti. Et c'est là un fait hautement positif dans l'évolution des relations  interétatiques. Une certaine éthique est appelée désormais à s'affirmer de plus en plus dans le jeu de ces  dernières. Dans cet humanisme démocratique ou encore dans cette démocratie humaniste qui semble nous  guider vers la fin de ce deuxième millénaire, l'UNESCO a un rôle important à jouer en tant qu'instance  culturelle privilégiée au niveau mondial, susceptible de façonner les structures et pratiques productrices des  valeurs dont cet humanisme ou cette démocratie pourrait se nourrir. Cela d'autant plus que s'ouvre actuellement  la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel. Comme l'a dit, il y a quelques minutes, le Secrétaire général  de l'ONU, M. Pérez de Cuéllar, au fond, notre monde a besoin d'un supplément d'âme, et c'est à l'UNESCO de  s'acquitter de cette tâche.
29.11 Monsieur le Président, les activités concernant l'éducation et plus particulièrement l'amélioration des  systèmes d'enseignement, l'élimination de l'analphabétisme, les progrès de la science et de la technologie au  service du développement, la maîtrise des problèmes de l'environnement, la sauvegarde des identités culturelles  et du patrimoine de l'humanité, restent pour Haïti des préoccupations majeures. Ma délégation se félicite de  constater que l'UNESCO leur accorde une place prioritaire dans les activités du prochain exercice biennal.
29.12 Je voudrais, pour terminer, saluer l'entrée à l'UNESCO de quatre nouveaux membres, les trois Etats  baltes - Estonie, Lettonie et Lituanie - et l'Etat de Tuvalu, et aussi exprimer le souhait que les pays qui ont  quitté l'Organisation reviennent pour lui restituer son universalité.
29.13 Le combat que mène l'UNESCO contre l'ignorance, les combats des peuples pour la liberté et le  progrès, le combat des Haïtiens pour le changement et la démocratie sont tous des combats sans frontières ;  mieux, ils constituent tous un même et unique grand combat : celui de l'humanité tout entière pour un monde  meilleur où l'homme, quels que soient sa couleur, sa culture et son pays, puisse concrètement élever son geste à  la hauteur de ses rêves. Non aux égoïsmes et à la haine ! Oui à la solidarité, à la fraternité et à l'amour ! Tous  ensemble, nous vaincrons ! Merci.  (M. Sou Heun, République populaire démocratique de Corée, prend la présidence)
30. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation d'Haïti et j'invite maintenant M. Jerry Tetaga, ministre de  l'éducation, chef de la délégation de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, à prendre la parole.
31.1 Mr TETAGA (Papua New Guinea):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation may I extend to Mr Ogot our warmest congratulations on his  election to the presidency of the General Conference. His election to this office indicates our confidence in him.  We have no doubt that with his experience and skill he will be able to steer the proceedings of our Conference  to a successful conclusion. Mr President, 1 would also like to congratulate the countries of Estonia, Latvia,  Lithuania and Tuvalu for joining UNESCO. The accession of Tuvalu has a special significance for the  countries of the Pacific because it is part of the same region. To us, membership of UNESCO indicates our  increasing willingness to participate in UNESCO's activities in the fields of education, science, culture and  communication.
312 Mr President, two years ago we gathered in this Conference as broad political and social changes were  taking place in the international arena. We were not aware then that in two years’ time we would have more,  even greater, changes occurring worldwide - changes which would invariably threaten and endanger  international peace and harmony. As a result of such changes, it is becoming increasingly obvious that our  world can never remain the same. The evolving process has brought about a new world order’ which by its very  nature offers new challenges and opportunities to which our Organization, UNESCO, must be able to respond  effectively. To do so, UNESCO must re-examine its role in international relations and intellectual co-operation.  It must also re-examine its capacity to effectively respond to changing times and circumstances.
31.3 Mr President, my country is encouraged by the new developments taking place within the  Organization, which reflect UNESCO's willingness to make changes in order to meet new challenges in its  fields of competence. The reforms proposed for the Organization in regard to decentralization, staff and  administration policies, co-ordination and co-operation between UNESCO, National Commissions, non-  governmental organizations and donor agencies are positive indications that UNESCO is indeed prepared to  meet new challenges and opportunities. The proposed amendment to the Constitution regarding the  composition of the Executive Board, and the establishment of a committee of experts to guide the work of the  Organization are steps in the right direction. These are initiatives which Papua New Guinea fuily supports.
314 Mr President, permit me now to make some specific comments on the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1992-1993 and show how some of these programmes are reflected in my country's national programmes. On  Major Programme Area I (Education and the future) - my country believes that development and progress  depend first of all on an educated people that can fully participate in the development process. Although we are  blessed with an abundance of natural resources we cannot develop and enjoy the benefits of these resources  unless and until we have first developed our human resources. It is for these reasons that we have education as  a priority in our development plans. In conjunction with this priority, our stated aim in our philosophy of  education is the integral development of the human person - integral in the sense that all aspects of the person  are important, human in the sense that social relationships are fundamental, and development in the sense that  every individual has the potential to acquire knowledge, wisdom, understanding and skill, etc.
31.5 Mr President, it is for these reasons that we support UNESCO's efforts in the field of basic education.  In the spirit of the Jomtien Declaration my government has established a number of programmes which address  the problems of providing basic education for all. Since the launching of International Literacy Year, my  government and some non-governmental organizations have embarked on a nation-wide literacy programme.  With our literacy rate standing at 45 per cent we still have a long way to go, but are pleased to say that we are  making steady progress. We are grateful to UNESCO for the assistance it has given to us in this area and look  forward to more co-operation in the future.
31.6 Mr President, may I take this opportunity to thank UNESCO for assisting my country in the review of  its education sector. The study has given us very encouraging results; indeed, it has enabled us to identify  priority areas within the education sector which will form the basis for our educational programmes. The study  has also given us some very useful information we will use to formulate a 10-year plan and the opportunity to  restructure our education system. This new structure will place the emphasis on early childhood education, in  particular pre-primary education, vocational and technical education, special education, and upper-secondary  education.
31.7 We commend UNESCO on Major Programme Area II. The present scientific situation in Papua New  Guinea, including the adoption of "Western technology’, has not developed in a vacuum. One can recognize  three overlapping stages in the ongoing process leading to the current situation. Firstly, the traditional phase:  the knowledge base contains the accumulated tools and the wisdom. However, these traditional resource use  patterns are breaking down and the knowledge on which they are based is rapidly eroding. Secondly, the post-  war phase: the post-war phase saw the consolidation of the colonial administration and the establishment of  research arms within government departments and institutions; these developments were ad hoc and apparently  uncoordinated. Finally, the post-independence phase, which has seen the development of well in excess of
50 institutions, engaged in scientific and technological research and related activities.
31.8 — Mr President, Papua New Guinea accords high priority to activities concerning the environment and  natural resources management. This is reflected in recent policy initiatives formulated by my government. To  mention a few: the white paper on national training policy, which contains sections on technology and society  and manpower needs, the white paper on industrial development, the document on information technology, the
516   tropical action plan, which contains a significant research component and the national plan for higher  education, which highlights major issues in relation to the training of high-level manpower in science and  technology.
319 UNESCO's Major Programme Area II, with its various subprogrammes, objectives and output, is of  particular interest to us, in particular its emphasis on the strengthening of national and regional capacities; the  promotion of scientific and technological research; intersectoral and inter-agency co-operation on  environmental education and information; the Man and the Biosphere programme; the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission and marine-related issues; hydrology and water resources management; scientific  and technological culture; and the management of science and technology for development.
31.10 Mr President, Papua New Guinea emphasizes the need for strengthening its activities especially in  training, the improvement of facilities and the development of institutions. We would therefore like UNESCO  to consider the long-term training of our human resources at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels in  addition to its existing short-term training programmes. We are pleased that UNESCO has decided to station a  science programme adviser in the Pacific Regional Office in Apia, Western Samoa. This centre could ensure  the co-ordination of regional science and technology programmes and see that Member States within a region  are utilizing appropriate scientific and technological know-how in keeping with their respective traditions and  culture. We believe that UNESCO should reconsider utilizing local experts that exist within the region.
31.11 Mr President, turning now to culture, Papua New Guinea attaches great importance to the cultural  heritage. For us, the cultural heritage is not confined to tangible artistic and architectural forms of expression  come down to us as the legacies of past civilizations. It consists of living cultures and includes languages,  spiritual, technical and aesthetic values, the way we eat, the way we dress and so forth. Papua New Guinea is  blessed with a rich diversity of cultural traditions expressed in over 800 different languages, and a multitude of  ceremonies, rituals, songs, dances, works of art and bodies of knowledge.
31.12 It is however becoming increasingly clear that what constitutes the very basis of our cultural life is  threatened by the worldwide influence of a certain number of cultural models. The standardization of taste and  life-styles, the influence of advertising and the media industry and the erosion of certain traditional values and  assets show that it is our country's interest and concern to defend and preserve its cultural heritage. It is  precisely because of these concerns that Papua New Guinea commends UNESCO's universal efforts to promote  culture and acknowledges and fully supports UNESCO's lead role in the "World Decade for Cultural  Development’. In support of the four major objectives of the World Decade for Cultural Development, the  Ministry of Culture and Tourism has developed several major programmes.
31.13 One of the major highlights so far is the successful hosting in Port Moresby of a recent international  symposium on the cultural heritage by the National Museum of Papua New Guinea. It has resulted in a very  comprehensive publication titled "Museum and Cultural Centres in the Pacific’. In addition to this, Papua New  Guinea is now preparing itself to participate in the sixth South Pacific Festival of the Arts which is to be held in  the Cook Islands in 1992. It is in fact co-sponsoring a draft resolution in support of the festival which is to  come before this Conference. It will also participate in a mini festival of the arts to be held in Auckland, New  Zealand, in February 1992. However, in spite of the fact that we have a broad range of cultural activities and  exchange programmes planned for the Pacific region, we wish to register our concern at the long delay in re-  establishing the cultural adviser position in the Subregional Office in Apia, Western Samoa.
31.14 Mr President, as regards the communication programme under Major Programme Area IV, we  welcome the role that UNESCO has been playing with regard to communication since the adoption of the new  communication strategy by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session; however, we note that this major  programme does not have adequate resources. We support in particular the subprogrammes concerned with  encouraging the free flow of information at both international and national level, strengthening communication  capacities in developing countries, and the training of communication professionals.
31.15 In the important field of information, there is as yet no accepted national policy in Papua New Guinea.  Tentative steps have been taken with some assistance from UNESCO under the General Information  Programme, to formulate a national information policy, but much work remains to be done before such a policy  can be approved by the government. The recently formulated national science and technology policy draws  particular attention to the need for a co-ordinated approach to the acquisition, storage and dissemination of
13   scientific and technological information. The role of the Asia-Pacific network for the exchange of science and  technology information in supporting these initiatives is crucial.
31.16 The role of networks in the development of a library and information system within the country and in  the Pacific region is also important. UNESCO's main role in network development has been to act as a catalyst.  The limited resources provided by UNESCO have served to stimulate increasing demands for assistance,  particularly in areas where external intervention is necessary to promote awareness and appreciation of  information as a valuable resource.
31.17 Mr President, Papua New Guinea is fortunate to have numerous libraries and information services. In  a far-reaching decision, the government has established an office of libraries and archives whose responsibility  it will be to plan, co-ordinate and direct the library and archives services in the country. This important  development should facilitate the provision of information services, but it also places emphasis on advisory  services backed up by training workshops and the promotion of suitable standards.
31.18 A recent review of the education sector in Papua New Guinea referred to earlier stressed the  importance of libraries in meeting the basic learning needs of formal and non-formal education. If properly  resourced, libraries can play a key role in attaining the goal of basic education for all.
31.19 Mr President, Papua New Guinea regards Major Programme Area V (The social and human sciences  in a changing world), as an area that needs close attention at this critical point in time. A number of  development theories have been used in the past, by both the developed and less-developed countries, to foster  and create a better world in which to live, yet in everyday life we experience an increase in social disorder and  misery. Given this situation we ask ourselves the question "What development are we pursuing?'. If the latter is  to be our goal then we must adjust our developmental aims and objectives so that our resources are used to  improve the human lot.
31.20 My country, realizing the paramount importance of human development, is actively pursuing  development policies and strategies which give all the people of the nation an equal opportunity to express their  needs and desires, to influence the design of development plans and to participate in and contribute to their  own and the nation's development. Our targets are better health, improvements in the condition of young  people and women, and the welfare of the people of the nation. Accordingly, à national women's policy has  been established and the setting-up of a national youth service has been approved by my government.
31.21 All these initiatives are aimed at improving the quality of life of our people and we are pleased to co-  operate with UNESCO in these endeavours. My delegation believes that with our joint efforts and dedication we  can achieve much more in our quest to promote human dignity and improve the lives of our people. I thank you  Mr President.
32. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée. J'ai maintenant le plaisir  d'inviter M. Ali Al-Towagry, Secrétaire général du Bureau arabe de l'éducation pour les Etats du Golfe, à  prendre la parole.  : (palail Jay pag us fl GS a) DPUGVCTT IVT 3 8  oS pd) Lil plat) yal) Saban sgh gl] oLbels olin Sid epustinll su) posal) ras 58 AN py  LISI ada iY pala] Juhl) ip Sad) (Soda hate shy iin GS gag WI Lay pile piled  ud i Jans gill glall Jad asad Tesi) GaSe saaisy whiad PS piSe (Jl SSI deal of gai  Gaga) TPR FUCTIR SUPT IS NOC FVIII WRU RNISIL TR PTE DET PIC ACPUT] BL INPRVLCO COREL {BO  oad Ua plas Glabasy Lisgncad] Tuo pa) Lally maa oS AU yay  al Laat pall pS paie gi Toasa sll Was pigs pSae When CIEL a Liber VI Loaaladl Jul) ada 2068 Hil, YY, ¥  pSlael Jysx 4 Laud) LI cleanly GAG Lal yay Lal 5ally al pasts dyn pSSY plu i  est Gas dae Ga ISU 4 pai ULES pala) Jad oad) Tall CaS palsy ass paddle  Lisa Lauds ey Walaa y Lies June pla Gay Td gud! Sas gd Lakisl 55g gs 065 (a 43S5 Lae quel di  Lalit oar U Yar] able Thay pladl 5550) pedal Bpedd pole 5S smut dull LAN ple jude Sula
518   Lala oF galls elma ga ly Jubiandl Jules) Talis) a galall dyad rage Tail 805 Sat sl]  Wale pe gai Ad) LAWS usd Ce Gaels Sp A A Ja) ad M Toad) CaS Lda! LAN on  Adal) Labial ATEN a0 Lalas de Thuan Ta (ss of A pales Lagi ob Gas Ln Shay  Blast ce Le Huan ly Uledy dba tub saitady ETS lad) Jaall Yay Ledges La guias  lys Luiss dy BlelyaŸl 55 adie ps sas Ge dalles Ly alsa alias Ce ssid Lay lesions  rallied) dasa y SUIS A AIS else Ga Gals Lady Ju ASA  le y y dl  Glace! das of GB) sa Ÿ5 Gabi) Le bliss Leslie y LS pad l Talanll 300, Lalu le cies fils  YY,Y  pS aise le Lag sall GU Gra pe S II GEI Vin a handy Takinll 4 pads i) SAIT spall Jigs Gui  Joa pany Lal mds Lo Sins LUI 3nd asia gil) plod) ya sad) (520 35m LS hs Lip th Jamas oly pled]  Toa gSall 5d bakially Loa gSall LEA gna Lag 5500 glad) a SSL) sal 138 Lilo yg pie y Lean! so  Gril Ga sSilly OL Iy Gdill Ge Leasddly EH AIN Glad) Fay Lau Si VI elawylly clous  gas y line Suis y lll Lalinl) Gland Gadast passe Le puis y pables  VAAL ple plod) apd aii VMAS ple aie U1 Ga gba ly ual) Gale] AS 75e Sie SLI Huis EI FYE  rabidly GLasd) cad 33am ple a aid LS Gaal Lil REA coli Lai gie Sud Vince ol pas  PFT ce Lite 55 Les pli La5i 3 Sat oF Lille dl Le 00 Tall iasally Toad) alas Gui SUSS Lal  Graf pills aad) goles) Juan Lakai Wily LL GUSH 3Sha Goel Ge 13550 0 JA palpi  Ly cba sy Joadl GU SL 5 ll LOU hash ual Ghat ly Le VV ada suas of dpe yd) Jul lad  ead Li guol in Spas pated) Guid) Lead GS 5 AYŸLS palpi) aad V5 IS cil gly cng pad! la 5 Lud
43 LST Guat gala] Jb pay ele Caliah Liga ll Tall) Sbodh wlyud db Le Jail 555 55 Ladd QU  $3 hall ast] Gis Les shy ad) Lidad) JAG 1505500, Talat FAST, 353 aa Gasaly Lise 31 Ligue  AGE pladly Tus pal) Ld pul) ass Ley  SST das lignan lining qe nb Le le Jal AS puise 4nd slay U1 All EBL OÙ boda ¥y YY,  plas Lasally poland) le pd3 Tolle TGS dal Ge AS SAU Jaadly 5300 Ge LAIT el yal Tladuls LL  A3 of ya Tadyadly LA CLEAN pa golaidl TA cua sil NAN GUU asks, SIN AIS  Loeb laa) a Lia LI Jlatiod Ga Just 3s As ee gs ob grand Losill Joa All a3)  le pal gaald ala pal GIl 10855) Jae Tig aad) gadall 555 oly salud] LLG Lops! esl  UAill ada Ut db gata] Jgud asad) RUN Se LS pas ily oa ly Walid] Gl LYS Ge al33 sae  Leal) Cdl pled CoS Jae Und pi Luvoluoi Gland Lil sai sas) gen =  la Suéirs Lal Tas of Jad) oS 5 es Gala | 0354) gag 3,50 ob Saad) Lalit ee RER  dial lin ele yylia Jraiill pds LS pas 13 aad) Gans gtd! dial) gay Yi pall gg lll  AI Jad oad! Land) SSL Sa SI plaad) Ge uel oF sgl SL ad adil] Jaadl pass SoSH  AIA LH SL IUN 2805 LAN GEST sah le sad ASIN Lala Whobieny cle yall aig  Lualaal 5585 51 Sas IS pâte LAURE Vlas GLAST le Gasall pa pla SI pb AES sandy Gil SR EŸ) py  (Hos! AAT baal] aati LAGAN hall à IS ,LALH Glad pass ob platy cdaaa lle AS Haas  LoS) Las 5 yes LISA SE dade re tai gil) pag 3,60 Gok pada aad plaialy Lays sil  sSaaipll Raita Jans SI (oa ¥) pa gl IN Land alles. VAY ple alain Tags 3) calle TIGE gas  SU gard] say ope Uni ans Le of Looped) LEA) Loans Ua 5 sys pa guadll ay ley mila le  sad SU asad! aba Ge Sal 3ŸYgs A Gyauuss LAL La 555 Ladd Lun pda) Ua in y Libs  iad Wall of FRS 5 Los paul us a SM all ol, 5000 Galas ual) AI CSI 5a5a0) wae Gs lal  lsh Jlall AS 55e gids OF 50 555 AT) Tuaill ml) paie Gy VAN Joga a Still Le peas  PLY JI idan
13   pale Lng yall cle gp til] a AY! asl sal saad SLaiily shy gual oF plie sd Yu VEN  alas 3033 YS galyall sae paid ly aS le ppd) ass I LME La Ga 58S Li) gall  alll geal pall JY east Jlakl gb Libel LABUUI (hay S d) ls YT 030 Lily Lads loll
55s Of Jaliy Any pind Les) pled yaks les gralipall 31 ust) JEU hy Jukiantly Tosa  al gs Saad) Bailing pes pb Lill Sale ale gypdilly galyadl ii a 3a! J Takall alas  Las aadieus y 2007 el yinl] aad ce Ulai Lille Bad Giad Joa ali à LoS Talal) SSL 4 pads oll  FH JS pla) Sy 50 y La) pad] Las cliily p81 ga) pSeladinl Guan goal Toa pS SA 31 sly YYLA  GIS 555 AN Lan yg p Sale ply plas
(33.1) Mr AL-TOWAGRY (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished  heads and members of delegation: the peace of God and his mercy and blessings be upon you. I am honoured to be  given the opportunity to say these few words before your august assembly, and it is with great pleasure that 1  extend to you and to your Conference the greetings and regard of the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf  States, which toils in the same fields of competence as UNESCO, but in the service of its own Member States: the  United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Qatar.
(33.2) Since the Bureau's Member States have sent official delegations to your General Conference to  participate in its deliberations on the draft programme and budget and to examine the important documents before  you and the various topics on your agenda, I wish only to express, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Arab  Bureau, representing as we do, action at the subregional level, our unreserved appreciation for and attachment to  UNESCO, which we regard as our own international organization, and our firm commitment to its ideals and  objectives. I would also like to express the same measure of gratitude and appreciation to H.E. Mr Federico  Mayor, the Director-General of UNESCO, for inviting us to attend the General Conference with observer status,  in accordance with the mutual representation and co-operation agreement concluded between UNESCO and the  Arab Bureau. In fact, the working relationship between the Organization and the Arab Bureau is even closer and  stronger than would be indicated by the provisions of that agreement, which we value greatly and hold in high  esteem. Our Bureau aspires to become a small replica, at the subregional level, of UNESCO, which we regard as  a model and an ideal for regional action in the field. We draw direct, practical benefit from its research,  publications, conferences and symposia, from its continuing development of methods and procedures, from the  execution of joint projects and even from the difficulties it experiences in the effort to rationalize expenditure and  budget control.
(33.3) For all these reasons and more, we scrutinize UNESCO's documents with great care and monitor its  activities with close attention. We cannot but express our admiration for and appreciation of the magnitude of the  work undertaken by the Organization, as attested by the massive volume of documents submitted to your General  Conference. We must also express once again our appreciation and gratitude to the Director-General for his able  leadership of the Organization's apparatus, with all its brain-workers and experts and for all the co-operation and  synergy with governmental and non-governmental organizations and specialized institutions which he has  succeeded in mobilizing in support of UNESCO's programmes and projects. This awesome army of intellectuals,  artists and thinkers are giving their best to promote the Organization's objectives and to implement its projects in  the interest of peace and development.
(33.4) The world has changed considerably since your twenty-fifth session in 1989. Profound and unexpected  changes took place in 1990 which clarified the international situation and seemed to bring us closer to a world in  which international entente and solidarity and the principles of freedom and democracy would be strengthened  and consolidated. Yet the Gulf crisis soon broke out, bringing in its wake terrible suffering and great distress,  rocking to the ground one of the oldest citadels of human civilization. Thanks to international goodwill and a  sensitivity to the true meaning of justice and law, we managed to weather the storm and to score an exceptional  victory for human co-operation and international agreement. All crises, including the crises of war, which are  accompanied by such suffering and tribulation as to test the human spirit, usually bring out the worst in human  nature; but a crisis often brings out the best as well, revealing untold resources by which it can be overcome. We  in the Gulf region feel that we have emerged from our crisis stronger and more firmly attached to the principles  prescribed by our true Islamic faith and championed by this, our international organization for education, science  and culture.
(33.5) There is no doubt that, despite all complications and difficulties, the present world situation is more  open and more responsive than ever before to the appeal for solidarity, mutual assistance and joint action on
520   behalf of a world culture based on peace, freedom, respect for the dignity of the individual and concern for the  development of his and her creative potential. UNESCO, acting in co-operation with several other international  organizations, organized the World Conference on Education for All in Jomtien, Thailand. It succeeded in making  the eradication of illiteracy into one of the basic objectives of the international development strategy and in  committing the international community to a plan of action for basic education for all, to which a growing number  of active parties and partners have adhered. We in the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States have geared  our work to the requirements of this plan, making its objectives an integral part of the Bureau's plan of action for  the next six years.
(33.6) Following the last session of your General Conference, UNESCO began work on the major project  known as the World Decade for Cultural Development. Since you are going to discuss the activities of this  important Decade in detail and make plans for the future, I would like to assure you that the Arab Bureau of  Education for the Gulf States has taken a deep interest in those activities and their underlying themes (the  cultural dimension of development, the assertion and enrichment of cultural identities and the need to recognize  cultural pluralism in the world). We have also given serious attention to the task of identifying common cultural  concerns which could serve as a basis for the development of a new world culture and which could help to  broaden the scope of participation in cultural life and encourage international cultural co-operation in general. We  have followed with great interest the Silk Roads project, which is at an advanced stage of execution, the  Alexandria Library project and the project on the Encounter between Two Worlds, whose implementation is set to  begin in 1992. We are also looking forward to the implementation of other UNESCO projects, especially the plan  for the development of Arab culture (the so-called Arabia Plan), which has received from the Gulf region a  personal gift of US $250,000 donated by H.R.H. Prince Sultan ibn Abdel-Aziz, the second Vice-President of the  Council of Ministers of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We are confident that this plan will receive considerable  financial and moral support from the States of the region and from UNDP, and we hope that your Conference will  give impetus to its implementation.
(33.7) I cannot even make a brief reference here to the many other projects proposed for your consideration in  UNESCO's draft programme and budget; but I am pleased to be able to say that we in the Arab Bureau of  Education for the Gulf States have gained much from the Organization's strategy of concentrating on major  projects and reducing the number of programmes in order to avoid the dispersion of benefits and resources. We  support the Organization's priorities described in Major Programme Area I on Education and the future and in  Major Programme Area II on Science for progress and the environment. We hope that UNESCO's efforts to  decentralize the execution of programmes and projects will prove to be an additional factor of support and  assistance to the subregional work carried out by bureaux similar to ours in the Gulf, so that an effective  international network of joint action can be established for the mutual exchange of achievements, experience and  knowledge gained in all regions of the world.
(33.8) Thanking you again for your kind attention, I wish you, Mr President, our Organization, and the General  Conference every success and God's peace, mercy and blessings.
34. Le PRESIDENT ;  Je remercie le Secrétaire général du Bureau arabe de l'éducation pour les Etats du Golfe. J'ai l'honneur  d'inviter maintenant M. Montant, Secrétaire général de la Fédération internationale syndicale de  l'enseignement, à prendre la parole.
35,1 M. MONTANT (Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est un grand honneur  pour moi et, au-delà, pour mon organisation, d'intervenir devant cette vingt-sixième session de la Conférence  générale de l'UNESCO, même si nous aurions préféré intervenir devant un public plus nombreux, mais le fait  même de placer les interventions des ONG en fin de liste et en fin de soirée dénote déjà le peu d'importance que  l'on accorde aux organisations non gouvernementales, nous semble-t-il, dans cette maison.
35.2 Nous nous permettrons, au nom des 160 organisations syndicales nationales membres de la Fédération  internationale syndicale de l'enseignement, d'apporter quelques réflexions sur la situation actuelle du monde de  l'enseignement, mais aussi, sur les rapports entretenus entre notre organisation non gouvernementale et  l'UNESCO.
35.3 Comme vous pouvez aisément l'imaginer, nous pourrions parler pendant des heures de la situation de  l'école dans le monde d'aujourd'hui, des causes des difficultés qu'elle rencontre et des solutions que nous  préconisons, que préconisent les organisations syndicales pour la sortir de l'état dans lequel elle se trouve. Nous  pourrions tout autant vous entretenir de la situation des personnels, des problèmes qu'ils rencontrent dans leur  vie professionnelle comme dans leur vie sociale. Malheureusement, le temps nous est compté et nous nous  contenterons de n'aborder, et encore en les effleurant, que deux ou trois questions vitales.
354 Il y a 25 ans, les Etats membres adoptaient une recommandation commune avec l'Organisation  internationale du travail sur la "condition du personnel enseignant”. Cette recommandation, à la réalisation de  laquelle les ONG de l'enseignement avaient activement participé, est un instrument qui, 25 ans après, garde  toute sa valeur. Si des progrès ont été réalisés en 25 ans dans les domaines traités par la Recommandation -  progrès qui ne sont pas niables - ; on est amené néanmoins à constater que ceux-ci sont sans commune mesure  avec les besoins existants aujourd'hui, besoins qui, loin d'être statiques, sont en pleine évolution et personne ne  devrait légitimement s'en plaindre. L'évolution scientifique et technique, l'accroissement considérable des  connaissances, les exigences du développement posent en termes qualitativement et quantitativement nouveaux,  la question de l'éducation et de la formation, Or, si l'on se place dans le sens strici de l'application de cette  recommandation, on ne peut être qu'effaré de constater la différence entre les intentions affichées et la réalité,  le vécu de chaque jour des enseignants et de la jeunesse du monde.
35.5 "Le droit à l'éducation est un des droits fondamentaux de l'homme", soulignait le préambule du texte  de 1966. Qu'en pensent aujourd'hui le milliard d'analphabètes adultes dans le monde, les centaines de millions  de jeunes qui ne peuvent suivre une scolarité normale ? Toujours dans le préambule, il était souligné que "la  condition nécessaire à la promotion des valeurs morales et culturelles, ainsi qu'à un progrès économique et  social continu" était de développer et répandre l'enseignement général technique et professionnel, en vue de  tirer pleinement parti de toutes les aptitudes et ressources intellectuelles existantes”. Ces conditions ont-elles  disparu, les besoins de développement sont-ils moindres aujourd'hui qu'il y a 25 ans ? Qu'en pensent la jeunesse  qui sort des systèmes éducatifs dans la grande majorité des cas sans formation, les milieux professionnels qui  regrettent l'inadaptation des salariés aux besoins de l'économie, les millions de salariés mis au chômage par  suite des restructurations d'entreprises ? Le texte soulignait aussi "le rôle essentiel des enseignants dans les  progrès de l'éducation et la nécessité d'assurer aux enseignants une condition qui soit à la mesure de leur rôle".  Partout aujourd'hui, les personnels de l'éducation sont contraints à l'action pour la reconnaissance de leur rôle  social, pour leur salaire, pour des conditions de travail décentes, pour une meilleure formation. Cela prouve que  les intentions louables n'ont, globalement, nullement été mises en application et nous pourrions prendre  d'autres exemples puisés dans le texte et nous aboutirions aux mêmes interrogations et au même constat.
35.6 Les Etats membres sont aujourd'hui réunis pour examiner les programmes de l'UNESCO pour les  années à venir. Nous pensons que ceux-ci devraient tenir compte avec plus de force de ces réflexions, sortir des  bonnes intentions proclamées pour entrer dans l'heure des réalisations effectives. Nous savons que la tâche sera  difficile. Nous savons que cela devra conduire à des révisions politiques déchirantes. Nous savons que cela est  incompatible, par exemple, avec les politiques de réajustement structurel telles qu'elles sont pratiquées  aujourd'hui. Mais nous pensons que sans des mesures énergiques au niveau de la communauté internationale,  sans une aide désintéressée et pourtant mutuellement avantageuse entre le Nord et le Sud, nous allons à la  catastrophe économique, sociale, culturelle et écologique partout et, tout particulièrement, dans les pays en  développement.
35.7 La deuxième question que nous voudrions aborder est celle concernant un secteur vital aujourd'hui du  domaine de l'éducation et de la formation : l'enseignement supérieur. Personne ne peut nier l'importance  économique, sociale et culturelle de ce secteur, et l'UNESCO moins que quiconque. Or, nos organisations  jugent nécessaire, depuis de longues années, qu'un instrument international soit adopté, sous une forme ou sous  une autre, sur cette question. Instrument qui conduise à un engagement politique des Etats membres sur le rôle,  la mission et le développement de l'enseignement supérieur dans tous ses aspects, sur la garantie donnée au  monde universitaire en ce qui concerne la gestion et l'autonomie des universités, sur les garanties à apporter  aux enseignants, etc. Nous pensons que la conférence réunie en ce moment devrait aller dans cette voie.
35.8 La troisième question a trait aux libertés des enseignants. Nous considérons que les enseignants, s'ils  ont des devoirs, ont aussi des droits. Or, nous constatons trop souvent que si les États membres sont très  pointilleux sur les devoirs, ils le sont moins sur les droits. Nous pourrions prendre devant vous maints exemples  sur les pratiques d'interdits professionnels à l'encontre d'enseignants, à qui l’on reproche leur engagement  politique ou même syndical, voire au cours des deux dernières années, tout simplement d'avoir participé à  l'application des politiques décidées par leurs anciens gouvernements, comme si un fonctionnaire pouvait faire  autrement que d'appliquer les textes édictés par les pouvoirs en place. La conférence s'honorerait à notre avis de  condamner, sur la base des idéaux qui animent l'UNESCO, de telles méthodes contraires par ailleurs aux  législations internationales en vigueur.
359 — Enfin, et nous en terminerons par cela, les ONG sont souvent génantes. Leurs propos ne sont pas  toujours très agréables à entendre, pas plus que les propos des organisations syndicales dans vos pays respectifs.
522   Mais les ONG sont nécessaires, tout comme le sont les organisations dites de la société civile. Or, nous  constatons que si l'on sait nous flatter, si l'on sait, dans les discours reconnaître le rôle important que nous  jouons - ce qui ne pourrait que nous réjouir - dans les faits, nous restons des interlocuteurs mineurs, considérés  toujours comme observateurs, sans réel pouvoir de décision, ni même de consultation. Des structures à qui l’on  refuse les moyens d'exercer dûment leurs responsabilités. Ne serait-il pas temps de faire passer les discours dans  les faits et de reconnaître, en leur apportant les moyens nécessaires, la place des ONG, en mettant sur pied,  dans le domaine de l'enseignement par exemple, un véritable conseil du type des conseils économiques et  sociaux existant dans d'autres structures intergouvernementales ou gouvernementales. Ce serait là à notre avis,  le moyen efficace et réel d'une reconnaissance totale du rôle des ONG. C'est sur cet espoir que nous voudrions  clore cette intervention, en vous remerciant, Monsieur le Président.
36. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Secrétaire général de la Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement pour son  intervention. J'invite maintenant M. Noel Sinclair, secrétaire permanent adjoint du Système économique latino- -  américain, à prendre la parole.
37.1 Mr SINCLAIR (Latin American Economic System - SEL A):  Mr President, the Latin American Economic System (SELA) is a regional intergovernmental  organization whose membership comprises 26 Latin American and Caribbean States. Its functions include the  promotion of intraregional co-operation as a means of fostering the economic development and social  betterment of its members as well as the provision of a permanent system of consultation and co-ordination for  the adoption of common positions and strategies on major economic and social issues, as well as in respect of  third countries and groups of countries.
37.2 — At a basic fundamental level, there is a close convergence between the work of SELA and that of  UNESCO, and we do find within this Organization a natural home. Nothing undermines peace and security  more than the perpetuation of poverty and backwardness among peoples. To the extent, therefore, that we at  SELA are dedicated to the fostering of economic development and the social betterment of peoples, so are we  making a contribution, along with UNESCO, to that sacred objective of achieving and maintaining peace and  security in the world.
37.3 Within the Latin America and Caribbean region, the struggle against poverty and underdevelopment  has been and continues to be one that demands a full-blooded commitment on the part of SELA. The majority  of our countries have been affected in the 1980s by the effects of serious macro-economic imbalances. At the  same time, the region has been experiencing the negative impact of a hostile international economic  environment which became even more so during the second half of the 1980s. This environment was  characterized, most significantly, by a reduction in external financing for development, the net transfer of  resources to creditor countries and institutions, the continuing and accelerated decline in flows of direct foreign  investment, an intense deterioration in terms of trade and a resurgence of protectionist policies on the part of  industrialized countries.
37.4 These factors, combined with the difficulties and the rigidities inherent in the growth of the economies  of our States, and the faltering of the integration process over the years, all combined to create a situation of  stagnation, even of retrogression in some cases, for the majority of our countries, which naturally saw the  possibilities of their participation in the world economy recede. This situation caused a spectacular decline in  the standard of living of our peoples and an increase in poverty. It also led to a jump in inflation and in  unemployment, The level of GNP achieved in the region in 1990 was almost 10 per cent less than that of 1980.
37.5 Between 1980 and 1990, the region transferred to creditor countries and institutions, in the form of  debt-servicing charges, a gross figure larger than $300 billion and despite this enormous haemorrhage of our  resources to the industrialized world, our external debt grew in the same period by more than $100 billion.
37.6 Despite the application of the Brady Plan to some of our countries, the region's external debt in 1990  still totalled $429 billion. In that year our transfer of resources overseas for debt-servicing charges totalled  $19 billion. It goes without saying because we have to pay such enormous sums for debt-servicing it is our  health and education programmes, among others, of course, that suffer. External debt has truly been a millstone  around our necks!
37.7 Mr President, if we are to break out of this pattern of stagnation and restart the development process it  is essential that we stem this outward flow of resources by at least 25 per cent. This is one conclusion of studies  done on the subject-matter by SELA. Experience has shown that a just and lasting solution to the problem of  the region's external debt can only be found through a realistic effort by all the countries concerned, including  negotiation between creditors and debtors and taking into account the interests of all the States of our region.  Proceeding from such a basis, the Regional Conference on External Debt held in the framework of SELA in  June 1990 in Caracas, Venezuela, adopted the Latin American and Caribbean proposal for a solution to the  problem of external debt, as well as a plan of action which provides for specific mechanisms for negotiation  with the different categories of debtors.
37.8 The situation with regard to external trade likewise is one which has been an important contributory  factor to the backwardness of our region. As is well known, the multilateral trading system has been hostile to  our countries. The trade policies of the industrialized countries are characterized by growing protectionism,  which erodes multilateral disciplines, especially in areas in which our countries have acquired comparative  advantage and a favourable resource endowment, such as agriculture, textiles and clothing, among others.
37.9 In response to this situation, SELA has been directly involved in the Uruguay Round of negotiation  within the GATT framework. The results of the Round are unsatisfactory so far. Its failure would mean the real  danger of an unleashing of a wave of protectionist actions, with most damaging consequences for our  economies.
37.10 In the area of industrialization, likewise, our region has been seriously affected by the economic  recession - a crisis which has been with us for nearly a decade. Among other factors, our high dependence on  imports adds another dimension of seriousness to our shortage of resources.
37.11 SELA has recently been studying in great detail the question of industrialization in the region. One  important conclusion is that the gap that separates industrialized countries from developing countries is the  technology gap: the gap of know-how’, and that in the coming years our region must engage in a full-blooded  and sustained effort at resource training, education and promotion of investment for the development of science  and technology if we are to achieve any level of international competitiveness and increase our participation in  the world economy. In this effort UNESCO's co-operation could be decisive, and we are glad to see that with  regard to activities for promoting scientific and technological research 26.4 per cent of the direct costs of their  implementation have been earmarked for the advanced training of scientists and engineers, mainly from the  developing countries, and for the dissemination of scientific and technological information to these countries.
37.12 It was just two weeks ago that we concluded in Caracas the Regional Conference on Industrialization  organized by SELA. That Conference approved the establishment of a Regional Forum on Industrial Policy in  the framework of SELA, as a body responsible for sustained analysis and reflection by the region, with the  support of relevant regional and international organizations on questions relating to industrial and technology  policies. The Conference also adopted a plan of action on industrialization which includes among other things,  a programme for human resource training.
37.13 Through these and other actions, Mr President, SELA is playing its part in helping to reduce poverty  and underdevelopment in the Latin America and Caribbean region, so contributing to the reduction of poverty  globally, and consequently to the enhancement of conditions for the attainment of global peace and security.
37.14 However, apart from this basic convergence of orientation between UNESCO and SELA, there is also  an essential complementarity between the work of the two Organizations. There is a general recognition that  UNESCO cannot function in isolation, but that it needs a network of regional, subregional and intraregional  systems in order to mobilize the energies and resources necessary for the successful attainment of its objectives.  The Latin American Economic System, as a body engaged in, among other things, stimulating regional  consciousness, and asserting our joint regional positions on the major issues of the international agenda, is an  essential counterpart of UNESCO in its task of identifying regional strategies and priorities, expanding its  international co-operative action and enhancing its presence and effectiveness throughout the world. Between  UNESCO and SELA, particularly in recent years, there has developed a close and fruitful co-operation.  UNESCO has been giving valuable support and collaboration to a series of activities on the work programme of  SELA. Its co-operation has focused particularly on the area of proposals for integrated social policies in the  light of the region's macro-adjustment policies, which have as their objective, that of helping to improve
524   national actions, as well as those of international agencies, by means of greater co-ordination among the  agencies involved.
37.15 Quite apart from any action that may be taken at the national level to reduce the effects of adjustment  policies, there is an important contribution to this process that can be made by Specialized Agencies. UNESCO  and SELA, working together, have activated the mechanism of inter-agency meetings in the region, two of  which have been held so far, for the purpose of identifying the most important elements of a programme of  assistance to SELA Member States in the elaboration and implementation of integrated policies to respond to  structural adjustment.
37.16 This co-operation has been greatly facilitated by the interest, zeal and dynamism of the personnel of  the UNESCO Office in Caracas. On behalf of the Member States of SELA I wish to express our gratitude for  such co-operation, and say how much we look forward to the intensification of that process; in the relevant  commission of this Conference, the SELA delegation will be presenting a set of concrete proposals for co-  operation between the two sides.
37.17 Mr President, this General Conference meets at a unique moment in the history of our world, and  indeed of UNESCO itself. This is the first occasion since its creation on which UNESCO is convening at a time  when peace is breaking out everywhere, albeit against the background of continued ethnic strife in one country  of Eastern Europe, which stands out as an anomaly. The characteristics of this outbreak have been eloquently  alluded to by previous speakers, and there is nothing that I can add in order to improve our collective  perception of the quality of the picture. Not since 1945, Mr President, has the vision of the founding fathers of  the United Nations seemed so attainable.
37.18 In this context, the centre-stage role naturally belongs to UNESCO. As walls collapse, as swords are  being beaten into ploughshares and spears into pruning hooks, as nations discover the commonness of their  yearning for peace and the values of democratic forms of government, as the old order dies and the world  stands poised for the creation of a new order, now is the moment, more than ever before, for the assertion of the  unique vocation of UNESCO as a forum for channelling and orienting the newly liberated energies of nations  and of peoples towards acts of peace - the acts of developing education, culture, science and communication; of  strengthening human solidarity in the face of the numerous problems that still afflict our planet - poverty,  disease, environmental degradation. Under your wise, enlightened superintendence, Mr President, this twenty-  sixth session of the General Conference - we are confident - can and will make an important contribution to  suitably equipping and reinforcing the Organization wherever that may be required, thereby strengthening the  determination and effectiveness with which UNESCO takes up this challenge. Thank you.
38. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Secrétaire permanent adjoint du Système économique latino-américain pour son  intervention et j'invite maintenant Mme Carmen Jarvis, membre suppléante du Comité mondial de  l'Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses, à prendre la parole. Ce sera le dernier orateur pour cet  après-midi.
39.1 Ms Carmen JARVIS (World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts - WAGGGS):  Mr President, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in addressing this gathering as the  representative of the World Committee of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, it is  incumbent upon me, first of all, to give you a brief outline of the work of our movement and then to highlight  some of the activities and programmes that have led to an enhanced status with UNESCO.
39.2 The World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS), formed in 1928 and now  established in 118 countries of the world, is a progressive, non-political and, to quote from its Statement of  identity, voluntary world movement based on spiritual values, duty to one's country and service to others. Open  to girls and young women worldwide, it offers to its eight million members a dynamic and flexible educational  programme. The association was very pleased to accept, on 9 September 1991, category A status with  UNESCO.
39.3  WAGGGS works for peace by promoting understanding between individuals through community,  environmental and international projects. Learning by doing’ encourages girl guides and girl scouts to have fun  while pursuing a diversity of activities and furthering their self-development. The movement has not only
13   survived but flourished, especially in developing countries, because it keeps pace with development and fulfils  needs in the societies and communities in which it operates.
39.4 Let us take a look at some of the highlights and priorities of our last triennium. It is characteristic and  typical of the philosophy of our movement that the theme of our last World Conference, which was held in  Singapore in June 1990, was ‘Strength and Harmony in Diversity". One is compelled to pay high tribute to a  movement that can continue to flourish in 118 countries of the world, some industrialized, some developing,  with the variety of religions found in these countries, and that continues to bring joy, satisfaction, self-  development and fulfilment to millions of girls with widely different backgrounds and aspirations.
39.5 Mr President, in confronting all issues we ‘think globally and act locally’. Over the years, and  specifically in the last triennium, the following have been some of our long-term goals and achievements. First,  leadership training, with the provision of suitable programmes and training materials for the use of national  organizations. Second, the advancement of girls and young women: here, WAGGGS' identity as an association  for the education of girls and women has been reaffirmed; we have developed and maximized the potential of  girls and young women to participate in community and civic structures and activities; we also prepare girls  and young women for equal sharing of responsibility with boys and men; however, member organizations are  allowed to choose their own way of work, taking into consideration the traditions and cultures of their own  societies. Next comes community development: this component of our programme seeks to help to develop  self-esteem in adolescent girls and to reduce the gap between their expectations and the realities of life as they  will encounter them. We try to help them with the process of becoming adults: the growing importance of  informal education, the eradication of illiteracy, and the promotion of functional literacy are all priorities of our  movement. Let me point out here that, as can be seen, all our interests and concems for society and  communities are in consonance with the objectives and work of UNESCO: we emphasize literacy, health  education and the preservation of the environment, just as UNESCO does. Next, come the needs of special  groups: minorities, migrants and refugees are all concerns of the movement, and we try to address them as best  we can.
39.6 Where communication is concerned, Mr President, we look at the impact of new development on our  lives; we work in close co-operation with the media in our countries, and we welcome the advances brought by  space communication.
39.7 Next, cultural development is an important element of our programme. We have always emphasized  creativity in arts, in crafts, in all spheres of the cultural life of our girls; since cultural development is one of  our objectives we are happy to contribute to the World Decade for Cultural Development. We should mention  here that UNESCO has recently provided funding for a cultural seminar for the Ranger age-group in the Pacific  Islands. We appreciate this assistance very much.
39.8 Now, Mr President, I turn to international education. In this domain, we have promoted greater co-  operation with the United Nations and its agencies, and UNESCO is the one with which we collaborate, as  most of our interests and activities fall within the sectors of the Organization's competence. We have also  worked closely with other international non-governmental organizations in the furtherance of understanding  and peace. Our association has explored the creation of an international development education project  involving youth exchange. A pilot project for WAGGGS youth service team was carried out early in 1990 in  Mexico. A youth service team was active at our centre in Sangan, India. Young women are working there  helping families in the slums. In 1993, in Africa, there will be a pilot project looking at adolescent health in  conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO). Closer to UNESCO Headquarters, the Europe region  has been researching bilateral East-West youth exchanges.
39.9 International education has been stressed in all the regions, both during training conferences and in  publications. We have intensified education for peace. Here however, I must make special reference to the  travel grants from which girls have benefited in the past. It is our hope that these will be maintained and that  more young people will be helped to travel and exchange ideas, and to promote peace throughout the world.  These travel grants have a multiplier effect; so some source of funding should - we believe - be found by the  Organization to continue to provide them.
39.10 Mr President, I have just related to you some areas of achievement and - perhaps consequently -  reasons why the world association has been accorded category A status in consultation with UNESCO. To  reinforce all this, WAGGGS is a member of the Bureau of the Standing Committee of NGOs, and is
526   Co-President of the Collective Consultation for Literacy as well as a member of the Working Groups on Family,  Human Rights and the Environment.
39.11 Several European countries are returning to the fold of guiding after more than 40 years of absence  because of political reasons. We are also breaking new ground in countries that are now free to accept the  guiding movement.
39.12 Mr President, permit me to offer you a quick glance at - and behind - some of the headlines in our  news bulletin entitled ‘Our World News', as testimony to our wide-ranging activities in community service and  world service.
39.13 First, WAGGGS works for World's Children’. This refers to WAGGGS' endorsement of a statement to  the World Summit for Children held at the United Nations in New York, 29-30 September 1990. It was the first  of its kind in uniting heads of state and government for the purpose of promoting the interest of children.
39.14 Next, ‘Youth Round Table'. This records the fact that WAGGGS was one of 17 NGOs to form the  consultative group which organized the Youth NGO Round Table preceding the World Summit for Children.  The association is now concentrating on how it can assist with the problem of ‘street children’. Information  leaflets are being produced, in addition to a game, all with the objective of voicing awareness of these important  issues.
39.15 The next headline, Holiday for Chernobyl Children’, relates to the fact that more than 1,200 Russian  children directly affected by the Chernobyl disaster were given a holiday by European Guide and Scout  Organizations. The children who came from the area directly affected by the nuclear disaster of 1986 were  hosted by 15 countries during July and August 1991. The operation 'Solidarity with the children of Chernobyl’  was initiated by the Soviet Union's permanent delegation to UNESCO, and organized by the European regions  of WAGGGS and WOSM. The young Soviets who benefited from the project were aged 13-15. They were  selected by the Soviet Fund for Children, priority being given to orphans, those from very large families and  those who lived in high-radiation areas. There was tremendous enthusiasm for the project in the countries that  participated.
39.16 '"WAGGGS at Drugs Summit, is a headline that reflected WAGGGS' concern about the rise in drug  abuse among young people. The Director of our World Bureau represented the movement at the World  Ministerial Drugs Summit to Reduce Demand for Drugs and to Combat the Cocaine Threat in 1990 in the  United Kingdom. The Summit participants included British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, United Nations  Secretary-General Pérez de Cuéllar, the executive heads of UNESCO, WHO, ILO and other United Nations  agencies, heads of government and various experts. A display mounted by the international NGOs included  WAGGGS' Fact Sheet on Drug Abuse Prevention. We have also produced a trainer's kit for intermediate  trainers, and a 'Spiritual Dimension’ kit. Any reference to these kits impels me to refer once again to  UNESCO's travel grants. I cannot recommend too strongly that they be maintained to enable young leaders to  attend training for trainers and to help them acquire the skills they require.
39.17 Mr President, last in my round up of headlines from our bulletin comes WAGGGS Water Project  Progress’. This reflects the fact that we have a ‘water badge’ and have published a book in two volumes, entitled  "Water is life’, which has been praised by UNEP, the United Nations and various non-governmental  programmes.
39.18 Mr President, the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts has proven its worth in service to  the world over 81 years. It has pursued excellence at all times in educating girls and young women for the  many-faceted roles they play in later life. The girls themselves find the guide movement something to belong  to: a club, a family, a chance to make friends at home and abroad. They have found a wide range of pursuits  from which to choose. Guiding has been a game, played for the fun of it, but clearly full of purpose. For girls it  has been a challenge to follow a clearly defined, although rather difficult path. It has been a way of making a  personal contribution to the future through participation in a programme designed to develop the girl as a  whole person - physically, mentally and spiritually.
39.19 As we work in close co-operation - Girl Guides/Girl Scouts - with UNESCO with this improved status,  category À, we wish to express our deep appreciation to the Director-General and the Executive Board of  UNESCO, and to all the members of the Secretariat with whom we have collaborated over the years. As we
13   move forward to the twenty-first century, we pledge to continue to work with UNESCO, and with other non-  governmental organizations, in preparing girls and young women to meet the challenges of the future with  faith, good humour, resourcefulness and courage. Thank you for your attention.
40. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie la représentante de l'Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses. Mesdames,  Messieurs, le débat pour cet après-midi est ainsi terminé. Je déclare la séance levée, en remerciant tout  spécialement les délégués ici présents d'avoir eu la patience d'assister à la séance jusqu'au dernier moment.  Merci.  La séance est levée à 20 heures  The meeting rose at 8 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 20.00