Cinquième séance plénière
17 octobre 1991, à 10 h.10  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. LAGOS ESCOBAR (Chili)  puis : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Fifth plenary meeting
17 okTs6pa 1991 r. B 10.10  TIpenceaTesrb: r-H Oror (Kenus)
3aTCM: T-H Jlaroc FckoGap (HUusn)
3aTeM: r-H OroT (Kenns)  Lualdll Label! Lialall  labia Vo, V0 Tell NAAN JOY y 73/0 9051 WY  (LoS) condo asad! uns SN  (lt) HLS] usd? awd! ph  (Las) os sf aud p5  hh RK € =
1991 £10 BUTE LIM 104)  ER: REEL (HET)  fifa: RER « RETR ILIEE CEH  fifa: RICE (HBT)
117   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaciôn)  OBLCYXJIEHHUE BOIPOCOB OBILEH MOJIHTHKH ({nponoxenne)
(25) Lol Lou) I 2310
1. The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the fifth plenary meeting. We shall now continue  with the general policy debate and I give the floor to the first speaker on this morning's list, HE. Mr Syed  Fakhar Imam, Minister of Education, head of the delegation of Pakistan.
2.1 Mr IMAM (Pakistan):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is  indeed an honour and a privilege for me to participate in the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference  and be able to address this august forum. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to congratulate  you on my own behalf and that of my delegation on your election as the President of the Conference and also  other delegates on their election to various offices. I would also like to place on record our deep appreciation of  the dynamic role of H.E. Mr Federico Mayor in running this Organization under the guidance of the Executive  Board, and the dedication with which he is engaged in bringing about reforms in the Organization.
2.2 The twenty-sixth session of the General Conference at which we are meeting today is an extremely  important one in the life of this Organization. When UNESCO was established in 1946 following the end of the  Second World War, the newly independent countries saw in it an important multilateral agency in the field of  education, science and culture, and there were great expectations from it.
2.3 These are times of dramatic change on the international scene. The frontiers of freedom are expanding  with a rising tide of democracy and upsurge in economic liberalism. This is also a period of great expectations.  At the same time, the problems of backwardness, environmental degradation, illiteracy and poverty continue to  haunt the minds of policy-makers in the developing world. The political leaders of the world are trying to find  solutions to these complex and difficult problems. Peace and co-operation cannot exist without development  and growth of the economies of the developing countries, without solving their economic, educational,  scientific and social problems, without providing security to small States, without improving access to modern  technology for developing countries. UNESCO as an organization dedicated to peace has an intellectual  obligation to provide better understanding of the elements of a new international order. It could in that process  find an opportunity for its renaissance, if it accepts the challenge and provides an affirmative response.
2.4 This Conference, Mr President, will deliberate upon the policies, strategies and activities identified in  the Draft Programme and Budget for the biennium 1992-1993, which is the fruit of wide-ranging consultations  and a keen philosophic and scientific analysis of issues in education, science and technology, culture and  communication, We are in general agreement with the programme and activities organized under the seven  major programme areas. The themes are all-pervasive, thorough, and indicative of the eagerness of the  members of the Organization to promote the cause of education, science, culture and communication. The effort  which has gone into the making of this document is laudable. However, in our view, equally important is the  implementation of the programme activities.
2.5 The carefully constructed conceptual framework of the draft programme and budget by the Director-  General, to which the Executive Board made invaluable input, has been conceived with a focus on the needs of  developing nations. Its emphasis on the disadvantaged segments of society, women, youth and illiterates  reminds us that the world educational crisis that was universally recognized in the 1970s is not yet over, If  anything, the educational systems are under even greater pressure than they were yesterday. Several critical  problems continue (0 plague both the developing and developed nations. They include, as has been pointed out  by Coombs and Hallak (1987): first, the erosion of educational quality and relevance, and the often dubious  contribution of education to individual and national development; second, the increasing number of ‘educated  unemployed’ and the growing incongruities between the world of education and the world of work; third, the  gross educational inequalities that penalize females, the poor and various ethnic minority groups; fourth, the  declining status and attractiveness of teaching as a profession; fifth, the deterioration of international  educational co-operation; and finally and most alarming of all, the waning public confidence in education.  Unfortunately, this syndrome is nowhere as clearly visible as in the low-income countries of Asia, Africa and
118   Latin America. I believe that these nations are in urgent need of what Coombs has described as ‘international  education co-operation’. The economic theory of human capital has clearly demonstrated that expenditure on  education is an investment, and the rates of return, both private and social, are highest from investment in low-  income countries.
2.6 We are in full agreement with the proposal contained in the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995)  that the majority of the world's population has to be delivered from the worst of injustice that condemns it to  poverty, suffering, and humiliation. We also agree that the only remedy for the malaise is ‘education’. ‘Basic  education for all' is the ideal which is being echoed from national, regional and international educational  forums. It does not take into account the huge task involved in translating this ideal, particularly with reference  to low-income and low-middle-income countries now grappling with the unfinished task of primary education  in terms of equitable access to education of eligible school-age children. Apart from this dilemma of  quantitative expansion, the learning environment cannot be enhanced without improving the preparation and  motivation of teachers and strengthening educational planning and management. The proponents of basic  education for all are right in their perception. Yet, the varying scenario in a number of developing countries  does not permit a monolithic application of the ingredients of basic education for all. This must be segmented  and adjusted in accordance with the needs of the countries at various stages of preparation. In Pakistan alone,  for example, a sum of $3.0 billion would be needed over a period of ten years to bring 100 per cent (24 million)  of the 5-9 age-group children into the primary cycle. This will constitute about 20 per cent of all the out-of-  school children in Asia. The strategy for the future, as I understand, is obvious. Firstly, international  educational co-operation must increase substantially, and a tenfold increase for primary education. Secondly,  this allocation must be used in tandem with the nationally available funds for developing infrastructures which  could accommodate 100 per cent of students of the eligible age-group into the primary cycle. Thirdly, having  met the first requirement of basic education for all, phased super-imposable programmes must be launched for  providing enriched instructional programmes, which could carry the learning process of the student beyond the  basic three Rs. Fourthly, improving the preparation and motivation of teachers and educational managers  should be top priority. Lastly, the primary education systems of developing countries need the preparation of  country profiles on the basis of fresh information accumulated from the experiences of those countries which  have successfully gone along the path of excellence and quality. ! hope that these suggestions would be taken as  a positive indicator of the desire of the developing countries to move towards basic education for all.
2.7 Let me now turn to the area of illiteracy which is high on the list of the draft programme and budget.  Illiteracy 1s a spanner in the wheel of economic development of a number of developing nations. The World  Bank considers the launching of functional literacy programmes in developing countries as a prerequisite for  social mobility. A number of countries in Asia have been able to eradicate illiteracy substantially. For others,  like Pakistan, it remains a difficult challenge. The total number of adults and children who needed basic  education in 1990 stands at 62 million. This includes 53.4 million adults aged 10 and above, 6.0 million  children aged 5-9, who do not enter the primary system, and 3.2 million who drop out from the primary stream.
2.8 The female literacy ratios are also quite low. A conscious effort is now in the making to tackle this  problem through a number of innovations. À more intense activity will be carried out in selected areas to  achieve universal primary education and 100 per cent literacy through the participation of non-governmental  organizations. The success achieved here will be repeated in other areas. The use of distance education, through  Allama Igbal Open University, has demonstrated its success in the education of females through integrated  functional literacy and women's matric project. The innovation of distance education, working through  economies of scale, we believe, will emerge as the most cffective means to eliminate the menace of illiteracy.  The modicum of success achieved through innovative methods gives us the possibility of expanding these  programmes for the rural and urban poor. The exposé of the issue with reference to Pakistan highlights the  gravity of the problem. The draft programme and budget attracts our attention in this regard, and we are hoping  that the international community will focus its attention on those developing countries which are caught in this  dilemma. Perhaps, UNESCO could commit more resources to this sector, in particular for developing  innovative approaches, including the use of media in the Programme and Budget for 1994-1995.
29 By any standard our participation rate at the secondary level is low. Science education, which is the  cdifice of modern scientific and technological development, is being restructured in terms of curricula,  textbooks, teacher training and laboratory facilities. Access to secondary education, especially of the rural poor,  is beset with several problems, the most important of which is the inequitable dispersal of educational facilities  in the rural areas. The revival of the talent farming schemes (in which talented students are picked up early in  their academic career), the establishment of an institute for the promotion of science education and training, the
119   setting up of male and female model schools in the rural areas, or even the development of a university  specializing in education for rural development, will shift the balance in favour of the underprivileged rural and  urban poor, raising at the same time the quality of public instruction. The participation rate at the secondary  level will be doubled to 45 per cent in the next decade.
2.10 Technical and vocational education in Pakistan as distinguished from engineering education is  provided through vocational schools, polytechnics and colleges of technology. Efforts are now in the making for  linking technical education with industry and market forces. This has called for changes in curricula and  textbooks. The next decade will possibly see a wider spread of technical education. The paucity of trained  teachers has kept the system at a minimal level of efficiency. The National Teachers’ Training College  operating as an apex institution is filling this gap rapidly. More attention is being directed now to preparing  manpower which could serve industry in new and emerging fields of science and technology. The programme  and budget for the next biennium should review the worldwide changes taking place in this important  subsector. Many of the developing countries are now shifting from agriculture to industrial economies and this  change should be carefully watched in terms of the training of technical manpower.
2.11 Universities which are the repositories of knowledge have been destined to perform their putative role  of 'bildung, forschung und kultur'. They are what Castells has called ‘engines of development. The  entrepreneurial role of the universities is becoming more and more evident in Europe and the United States.  The Jarret Report in England on the efficient use of university resources has ushered in a new era for further  growth and management of universities in that country. Explosion of information in the universities is  providing new opportunities for the commercialization of knowledge. The rapid emergence of knowledge-  intensive industries is a consequence of these developments. The advances made in genetic engineering and  material sciences are examples of this type. This trend is likely to grow by orders of magnitude in the next  decade and even thereafter. Both internal and external inefficiencies have taken toll of higher education in  these countries. It is time to speculate on a strategy through which a sustained and equitable transfer of  knowledge is made possible. Given the new role which the universities in the West are performing, there is an  urgent need for substantial amounts of trained manpower and equipment to be poured into universities in the  developing countries. What mechanisms are to be used for this purpose? The 'UNITWIN' project launched by  UNESCO is a step in the right direction. Still in its primordial form, the idea of UNITWIN has to be  strengthened through different types of initiatives.
2.12 The rapid knowledge explosion has placed another restriction on the availability of information to  genuine researchers in developing countries. A large number of scientific journals published in each discipline  are outside the reach of an ordinary university. This limitation is retarding the progress of research in  developing countries. Perhaps UNESCO's Clearing House and the General Information Programme can play a  leading role in this regard. Now let me take this opportunity to comment briefly on other areas included in the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993. Culture, environment and information are areas which have  important significance for the present. We are living in a rapidly changing world. Perhaps, it was Margaret  Mead, the famous anthropologist who said, 'No one will live in the world in which he was born, and no one  will die in the world he worked during his maturity’. As the time-span for change shortens, and the life-span  increases, we will see the development of a 'pre-figurative culture’ in which the future will dominate the  present. We have to prepare new generations for the imperatives of the future. UNESCO has done an excellent  job. Our heritage of the past is a link to the present and the future. Movement towards a global culture  augmented by science and technology and informatics will take time. However, this movement has to be  carefully watched in the wake of human psyche for territorial imperatives.
2.13 Man's place in this world and in the future will be largely determined by the way he treats his own  environment. I believe that the responsibility for protecting our environment lies largely with the developed  countries. They are the major contributors to environmental hazards. And :t is through their participation that  we can save our planet from future annihilation. Let the present session of the General Conference adopt a few  internationally integrated programmes on environment protection.
2.14 The rapid explosion of information technology has opened new possibilities for the populations of the  world. I urge that UNESCO play an effective role in ushering in a new era of information and communication  between the developed and developing countries. An era in which information is seen through the indigenous  cultural perceptions of the society to which it pertains and not through the rectifying medium of other  perceptions. And, finally, an era in which the immense power of information is put to serve the cause of world  peace and human dignity. )
2.15 As far as the budget part of document 26 C/5 is concerned, a negative growth of 2.9 per cent however  represents an overall increase of 19.2 per cent. In my opinion, the staff/programme ratio continues to be on the  high side: about 64 per cent of the budget is allocated for personnel, which leaves only 36 per cent for various  programme activities. I hope that efforts will be made to reduce the staff/programme ratio. The extra-budgetary  resources of UNESCO have increased by about 2.2 per cent. 1 would appeal very strongly to the developed  countries to extend more co-operation to the Organization and contribute generously to the progress and  development of the Third World. I would also appeal to the United Nations funding agencies like UNDP and  the World Bank to mobilize their resources for the extra-budgetary funding of UNESCO programmes.
2.16 Mr President, we in Pakistan are committed to a world view which emphasizes human dignity and  justice without distinction of cast, colour, creed, religion or social status. The present government in Pakistan,  with full belief in freedom and human dignity, is working for the eradication of poverty, illiteracy, disease and  cconomic and social injustices. We have been supporting the international community for an end to  discrimination and domination or exploitation at international, regional, national and individual levels. We will  continue to do so. Our major effort at this time is directed towards improving the quality of life of the masses  through accelerated economic development.
2.17 To conclude, Mr President, today when we are in a sense taking a new start in international relations,  the opportunities of fulfilling the role for which the Organization was destined are enormous. What is needed is  the will and the strength to accept the challenge. Given the enormity of the problems confronting the  developing countries, which constitute perhaps the most important constituency of the Organization, the stakes  are very high. True to its raison d'être, UNESCO should accept the challenge. We have great confidence in the  ability of the Organization to rise to the occasion by living up to the expectations of Member States. Thank you,  Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Pakistan, and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Taieb Chkili,  Minister of National Education and head of the delegation of Morocco.  (oid l) Lad) sud! EN  pal Saal! waeadt iin] edad uty sed] pled] S330) Gut, aad] pad) amd A ps  Llar gb omdoll game ash lama ly Salad] Lol casdisdl slaty Salad ly 5 IlAMS aol pS pdf Laka  Lowsleadl 3590) Lath) pala) Luli Unni] wl loe deals ody dd y palsy aly poll asl oF 0 SlS
15S ge Mais Cui gl Takia oF he ¥Y all lied Slasd) padaall paid pyall ASD usd) ina EN  Lally Leadaly Lsa,all QUAI Joa Julally Slyall byañey ALU IRAN ola yak! sway La  ès saint Ula, Load] a elt sal M Lila nil Walid) Leantll Lai) ein Wa gin ley (Aull  Coed hy GLS LS Gam ob canbe (a) 31 Lal) Jpull Tali y lal (pass A Udall lead)  earidly Losin) Gadd] oo Wall ads (dy ooladlly palidll gots rad 55 cad Lu LS gla  hs Lond) wlabd] pu; pb Leal aeladaly Luladdl Loads JS boda AA 3 pas Gulia due GSM  D. 5555 Oy ras Gis od pny) Ula, 5) le Luna SIS Lipdedl slo) Linas ay Lod) wf ull) 50545  ” Ey wl bball Glan py Ca Goladdly pallial) A Jay 3504S Lali (ps) Lele olay] ay  ondally laslly Mail am p USI dy rnanidly shally Sarai) alia 3, tan  ob IS Ils agin ple ds Lie Shain pala 3,550 oat) Lin Liles a JUIN 3a guild gun ESS  pre Lan 35 Il US las¥] cane 301 Cala II JBL aad ib Tala Ua JS wsdl plas! of Lipa 51
16 pis Lilt) Td ghee Salad reall pala] lala Tals oF Sas3dl Vin tel Gly TaagSall Suis Tin pal  rd al! @3balid¥) 0 OUT Ladd Usley lial Gulati) liste lily Ld ys Galas Lula 35 Lad LS dle  Salad l ga spaIly (Alu y Talal] Tu pall Glas pocnss Yeahs Lill "Taga Loy," 3300 Via L150 13S,  srad U1 su sad] adlad lo lod Taaliad 3328, JS oF Gls a US IS oad) A LOU peasy 38,0801 ESS  AJ]  of galisel gi y Lun I JL ably Gants of pèse ¥ LM AIT ada ST SI gaan £0  Gains 4 eal] le Lishas of Gla Ce etedlly Lis Toland] Ga n puens pdlpl] Mia Staal  vus JV à gas pale Lang Ÿ LS 5 Ladi Liiliolly Tall pales Glee pules oly slid pia Line les  Calif oF da AF Rasa 33 Yl TA 3¥ ol ja Ge AUS 0 350 Lally sald Joyal as peal dis As f of jada  pm JS I LV INC ST IP PU SOS [PR Leslie Vue ls LAS die 0 pal NES TTPO TR PRILT[T SPST SWIBORV}  pla Sly adadlll alael 201538 oid] apSOIl a eatin 5500 edad palaslly Toad) sai le al atl  Jraoill aims Sud pail] Gigyh 55855 hy salad) sal Laodasd) wil paliaal ay Alay  dal oa GGL Lila! Jadu SU 55) ool Le gén Latin All asgall oa EG SGAM ay ena  Eolas Wile YEA Ga pid] paddadll CENT ile ih Anse s pala] pass $505 le Lliadl  Tsai) ela lad Gaede AIT pass Suns ob (Salad pe cally aggall ells le ST Le gaie  mala) Jand | Llapny Saal) Jin Ge ulead paaall Tapsall daa Glad) GEL Lal3al) Glia gay £1  IN sad) hada) Jad) a Lat) pres Bo pad Ua Blah (G13 5a3300 La gl 30) abil) pdasl] la La  Hany Lass Ladyall elidel! hb Ldla Sul ghia) ous) Ihliely rase U Loyd) Gad Gains Gad Jas  lll 03a Ha +50 pameadd dl Tadiill Jyull seat Lol asda syle Ula ¥ dpa u,b) pall spe  Taal TSI Jad) seus LS pant] Toon) Gadad Jha i LELNSAIL slid] le Laalidl J yu)! Buell  ra Satin) Auald) Jud] 340 — Leia dad Ge IY le oT = Lpigos Ge J 300 Au sual) JSUie oa Lila  Ls saad 138 ay panl) To pal gi] LMI LAUT 30d) als on Ua pas le Laaliasl +L Sule
30in lll pubs Jai Ge Gli Gel Slaaly pm 50 Jin dad aise pains JI Spud) Lalita yes  JM fin 5 gall paluanll lee Jpdan sleet y gras Rail Jaa Ald] oe  LS op play Lalas y Las 6 lela Tuas Tod g¥1 IS JI55 Lay cad sl 03 Ces leg Miss £,V  Jasdl ore Lip MAUVE Japan y Taal! Losi) ele la gals $5691 li I Lb Sasljie Lybie ody]
1555 si) "dial ly LOUP" palin] eat) JIM Landay A AS Sal ob Gels Le Jin y lacy  Ulad 3pm LuaLuall LL sland Ce Glass 5 pu Gitiatay Gaal ya) (alae sols Gui 555 Le JS  vases SU idl of J) Sadho dans (Glad | ia dy galisad] 13a Sle) gi gouss a0) Lata i  plaid) TOY Jal palin 2akiS 5 NAAO Liaw iia pp 33 Ag) JEU 5 Tapa AU Glan cra 7/1  Usd o¥! lel Losill Jha i prnoll pal Gail] SAIS Ga Jy eal] pall 55055 SIN JI as
122   US Yall jalind) aloe Lipsilyind LI aig pay aby ald Tuas SLU (ea ill us JL pales  Laity Due lai Vly LoaliadiV) Jalsadly Gell 38a uli) dail] grand ga JS I pal  als olan dal 5e GUL JS win pid SU ALAŸS lon sud aula ASIN prensa 303000 £,A  CI Llatal sans dua pial) Jaadly maletll oan Jelis Gla 11 oth La ya ans LAS LSI wie 20)  Loads Liliana ohn lo AMG ia grues gis JA AS Ail! AS Le Lalall 4S pul] Lays  rp Und) Via pue (31 asd 53850) 5 plas] Tl pay Aas Ua AIS wally Lana all Ye a Skid! 5 laid) lala  Lia JU Flashs gusil) Lu Glande Tad pays wad adil] IL, (aged! JI Gladl esp  pre {IPINPET| JUORETL I] ALU UMA SN JON ONT pass SURI  lial Ald) GLA yen Sled J) Gada TN ass! LeaaY GS! gb OAT aura jules £8  All gb GS sla dl BSI Gen SL Gres hdi Ge LEAT LSI 30 SGA Jalal,  Glad AGU sadly BEI 5 isa oly «Lad! Ale ob 51 (Se Vasey gulà Tosa SSI 5 5 5a)  glad! pads, LOLA Lali) ws, Alay) Wala J) Godly Gals) wnat) pla hl y (aad  SA alias Ghoalailly phd! pôles cards 3 GUL Taal pads WS RUBAN Slpll pls] Ldladl, AIL,  Lalas) Lasall Ald) saad! Glad a este pal 51 rb amlebaally 5180 Ta, Lgl! cunts cals  Laladly Till 334%) GG Jai ay Ladd ousSall eluwis goals paess dal Ge sseall ASS  Slay tale LILI LAL pLaia¥l Guid Jp Lil Gail Guid Gas «AEA S130 peal Laos SN  Lash le Bail (J SLA ain GISI gall seats LUS» Wasa le Bball jb D LAIVI Gia  AAA Tapia ly WALES Tuya) Gudad à 6 polly] GS 31) Huully pled) Tonal Iolaely 1,0.  Baki 5 sal id 35 gS sd] adie (JT Goleta pales 33 Guill oF spud Il sise ELA  faded) Cialis ol JSUS 5 Jal LIS eal abs Godan) LAN Ga Jialgie pes le Juan y Las lie  Wade Leilas Sl JLa¥ly Wold gee stana ob sey Wl Usa (000m aad 0 ls audi cils AU  Sosandl Ghlia Gans olla ied Gl ud à Bla) Guay pAUIII pass GaŸly pdad] L157 Tudo!  BL y Cilual Ci 5055 Lol ul) gal jis lia Ge TL] es La pl) ain pluail SALE Ge 545 Gulli  pl Lil alas 535 OÙ Gb Jl GIG AUS pas ble II antl] Loyal) Laliassy gasailly pla)  Lyall ef 5U5 FU essed Le Gay GROS UASŸI pean! GST ANS Taall lal! JS Laas!
15S GIy Jas AI Tam pale poland ly BAINS 5 ily poll Taal
(4.1) Mr CHKILI (Morocco) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to offer you my warmest congratulations, Mr President, on  my own behalf and on behalf of my country’s delegation, on your election as President of the twenty-sixth session  of the General Conference of UNESCO. I am sure that your wide-ranging abilities and experience will enable you  to conduct the proceedings of our Conference with consummate skill, enabling it to achieve the best and most  useful results. I should also like to take this occasion to extend to your predecessor, Mr Anwar Ibrahim, Minister  of Education of Malaysia and President of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, our best thanks and  appreciation for his efforts in pursuit of the lofty goals that the Organization is endeavouring to attain. I also wish  to extend my most cordial greetings to the Chairman of the Executive Board, to Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-  General of UNESCO, and to their colleagues and to express my appreciation of their dedicated contribution to the  advancement of UNESCO's aims and their work to ensure the sound preparation of the Conference.
(4.2) Mr President, we are meeting here today to demonstrate to the whole world community as clearly as  possible that UNESCO will continue to be a nerve centre for the collective aspirations of humankind and a forum  for debate and dialogue on issues of world importance in education, science and culture, and to make clear the  extent to which these issues are related to the overall development of our societies. No one doubts the importance  of UNESCO's calling or the quality of its services to the world, particularly to the developing countries. It has  helped to preserve human dignity and to enhance people's awareness of their rights. It has worked for greater  mutual understanding and co-operation and for a narrowing of the gap between the peoples of the developed and
123   the developing world. It has emphasized the need for planning in ail forms of economic and social development,  participation in the formulation of educational policies, the strengthening of technical capabilities and the  mobilization of human and natural resources. But UNESCO has not yet completed its mission; indeed its mission  is perhaps never-ending. The Organization must therefore be preserved in order to carry out its duties as the  connecting link in international understanding and co-operation, in the dialogue of civilizations and cultures, in  the struggle against discrimination, hatred and bigotry and in the fight against ignorance, backwardness and  destitution.
(4.3) Mr President, as the century draws to a close the world is passing through a period of labour that will  lead to the birth of a new world. Although it is difficult to predict the shape of the world that will emerge once the  situation has stabilized and the present upheavals have subsided, we can be certain that the new order will  constitute a decisive stage in the journey towards realization of the high ideal that humanity has been trying  throughout its history to put into practice. Among its most prominent characteristics will be the establishment of  the principles of democracy and equality among peoples, respect for international law, the safeguarding of basic  human rights to freedom, justice and dignity, the right to enjoy the fruits of economic and social development and  the benefits of scientific and technological progress, and the right of equal access to the benefits of education.  Under the new system to which we aspire the role of education will be enhanced and its position strengthened as  the only means of shaping individuals and communities, raising their awareness of their rights and duties and  instilling into them the principles of tolerance, solidarity and co-operation. These are the main pillars on which to  build a world ruled by peace and harmony in which a desire for liberation becomes rooted in individuals and  communities, and from which fanaticism has been banished together with the causes of tyranny, oppression and  despotism.
(4.4) It was indeed fortunate that, at a time when a new world is being born, UNESCO, the World Bank, the  United Nations Development Programme and UNICEF last year convened the World Conference on Education for  All in Jomtien, Thailand. This unique event constituted a major new departure in the promotion of education. In  addition to its aim of generating a new awareness among governments and organizations of the need for joint  efforts to secure the prerequisites of education for all, the Conference set itself the task of defining a framework  for action which has become the reference framework for programmes run by States, and by intergovernmental  and international non-governmental organizations. The Conference declared that meeting basic learning needs  constitutes a common and universal human responsibility. It requires international solidarity and equitable and  fair economic relations in order to eliminate existing economic disparities. Hence the affirmation by the  Conference of an ‘expanded vision’ of education based on a widening of the scope of basic education and an  increase in the corresponding resources, the promotion of equality, and the strengthening of participation and  international solidarity, all of which will constitute the basic building blocks of the new world to which we aspire.
(4.5) Mr President, these thoughts about the future should not make us forget the reality of the world in  which we are living. It is my firm belief that the evocation of that reality, with all its positive and negative  aspects, will spur us on to continue with determination and persistence to pursue our goals and will impart a  serious, convincing and realistic tone to our work. As you are well aware, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the  developing countries, and especially those on the African continent, have suffered as a result of the economic  crisis to such an extent that the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa considered the 1980s as a lost  decade for that continent. This situation has had an adverse effect on the expansion of education, most clearly  evident in the relative stagnation in the growth of primary education staff, the decline in per capita educational  expenditure, the deterioration in learning conditions and falling standards of school achievement. In Morocco, in  spite of the efforts of my country’s government to rationalize the use of available means of sustaining the pace of  universalization and expansion of education, the Moroccan education system has been contending with similar  adverse circumstances and a variety of problems that reduce its ability to achieve universal education and its  relevance to development needs.
(4.6) Basing ourselves on our commitment to the Conference's World Declaration on Education for All and  the Framework for Action to Meet Basic Learning Needs, and on our belief that it is essential to strengthen  international solidarity in order to clear away the obstacles impeding the achievement of the goals of universal  education, and considering that the current détente in international relations following the end of the Cold War  will certainly release new resources, we call on the developed countries to devote a part of those resources to  helping the developing countries meet their commitments in the area of education for all. We also call on creditor  States to review their attitude to problems of indebtedness and to cancel at least part of the debt in the interests of  the developing countries, enabling them to reconstruct their economies with a view to securing the income they  need to provide education for all. In this connection, we call on UNESCO to organize a general conference to  examine this question and to issue a declaration aimed at creating the conditions in which the World Declaration  on Education for All can be implemented, thus giving practical meaning to international solidarity in this field.
(4.7) Mr President, UNESCO has assigned and continues to assign priority to the education, culture and  science sectors, and has devoted increasing attention in recent years to meeting basic education needs and  providing Member States with the services they request. This is evident in the strategy set out in the major
5.  programme area ‘Education and the future’, which we fully support since it runs parallel to our programme and is  compatible with our plans. I should like to declare my country's readiness to play an active part in the activities  coming within the framework of this programme, and in this context I am happy to point out that Morocco, which  devotes 36 per cent of its budget to education and vocational training, started in 1985 to implement a  comprehensive programme of educational reform aimed at the establishment and consolidation of basic education,  and the achievement of equality of opportunity for all, giving priority to education in rural areas and in particular  for women. To that end, it devised an integrated strategy designed to tackle all the obstacles standing in the way  of the universalization of basic education, for example remote and scattered communities and economic, social  and psychological factors.
(4.8) As it endeavours to universalize basic education with a view to eradicating illiteracy at its source,  Morocco is also mobilizing its resources to combat the phenomenon of adult illiteracy. My government is also  tying to forge links between education and productive work, taking steps to diversify and expand this form of  education at different levels, in accordance with the spirit of the UNESCO Recommendation on Technical and  Vocational Education. In response to the demand of the agricultural sector for qualified personnel and skilled  labour and also to the need to keep abreast of technological advances in that sector, attention has been focused on  the promotion of agricultural education in a bid to extend the network of agricultural education establishments in  rural areas and to incorporate agricultural technology in educational programmes at the second stage of basic  education.
(4.9) At another level we realize the importance of cultural development and for that reason we include the  preservation and enhancement of the world heritage, cultural exchange and the enrichment of cultural identities  among our priorities. We firmly believe that the preservation of the world heritage, whether in Morocco (e.g. the  plan to save the cities of Fez and Marrakech) or in other countries, dialogue between cultures, the cultural  dimension in development, the return of cultural and artistic property to its countries of origin, the assertion of  cultural identity, the promotion of creation, creativity and reading, and the production of cultural goods all take on  considerable importance in efforts to consolidate the foundations of peace, coexistence and mutual understanding  and to enhance the identity and dignity of individuals and communities. We are equally concerned with the  problems of immigrant communities and the safeguarding of the rights of minorities to protect their identity and  culture. We believe that within the framework of the World Decade for Cultural Development there is a need for  greater efforts to support and promote specialized training institutions and to establish specialized artistic and  scientific structures for the preservation of the cultural heritage. On that basis we call on the host States in which  these minorities live to preserve their identities.
(4.10) In view of the importance of communication and the role that it can play in bringing about universal and  continuing education for individuals and communities and in supporting the efforts of the education sector,  especially in the developing countries, there is a need to pay greater attention to all kinds of communication  media, which should be harnessed to serve the goals of education for all.
(4.11) Mr President, since it joined UNESCO, Morocco has participated in the Organization's strategic  planning and in the execution of its projects and has obtained continuous support from UNESCO for the  implementation of its own plans and programmes. We are all hopeful and optimistic that our revered  Organization, which has now achieved maturity, will with God's strength and assistance, prove equal to its  responsibilities and live up to the hopes which humanity places in it for the establishment of peace and security,  support for mutual understanding and good social relations. There are still, unfortunately, some parts of the world  such as Palestine which are deprived of these essentials by the impoverishment of their curricula and the  distortion of the aims and purposes of education, and the obstacles placed in the path of the morally justified  Intifadah of the Palestinian people. In spite of that, we all hope that the first steps to peace which have been taken  by all peace-loving parties will bear fruit, correcting mistakes and achieving coexistence in accordance with the  principles of international and regional peace agreements and conferences. God is the author of success. May His  blessings and mercy be upon you. Thank you.  The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Morocco. I now call on H.E. Mr Ricardo Lagos Escobar, Minister  of Education and head of the delegation of Chile.
(6.1) Mr LAGOS ESCOBAR (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, may I first of all congratulate you, Mr President, on your election  to preside over this twenty-sixth session. We are confident that with your extensive knowledge of UNESCO's  activities and experience of the life of the Organization you will guide our proceedings in an efficient manner, a  prerequisite for the successful conclusion of the task in which we are all engaged. I should also like to  congratulate the members of the newly elected General Committee and to extend greetings to the Director-  General.
(6.2) Great changes of a constructive kind have occurred in the world during the period which has elapsed  since the last General Conference. The Cold War has ended. The transformations which have taken place in  Eastern Europe uphold our vision of a multipolar world, based on an increasingly open international market. The  significance of the nation-states, large or small, in the North or in the South, is changing as political, economic  and cultural frontiers disappear or are modified, and stronger and stronger regional blocs are formed. We are  today moving towards a world without frontiers.
(6.3) Such is the case of Europe of the Twelve, which will probably end by extending its community to  embrace the whole of the continent; of the United States of America, closely linked to Canada and Mexico in a  vast free-trade zone, strengthening its position as an enormous economic complex; and of Japan and the emerging  powers of South-East Asia. This is all combining to shape a North that is effectively united in a global market,  blurring the traditional concept of the nation or calling it into question. It is in this context that a better  understanding will be gained of the educational, scientific and cultural problems facing our countries today.
(6.4) During the period that has elapsed since the last General Conference of UNESCO great changes have  also come about in my country. The democratic regime has been restored. President Patricio Aylwin was elected  with the participation of all our citizens and is exercising his authority within the framework of a State governed  by the rule of law.
(6.5) Once again the voice of Chile in UNESCO echoes in full measure the lofty humanist and liberal ideals  which lay at the heart of the Organization's creation and action. I am speaking as the representative of a country  which has distinguished itself - more than on account of its size, wealth or production - by reason of its age-old  democratic tradition, its attachment to the rule of law and the development of its culture and education. In opting  once again for democracy, the Chilean people also decided to salvage all that was best in its interrupted history.  Using the instruments of peace and reason we have restored the full exercise of public liberties and there is full  respect for human rights.
(6.6) At this time when hope has been rekindled, may I, on behalf of my government and the whole Chilean  people, thank UNESCO, the governments of the Member States, non-governmental organizations and the  thousands upon thousands of teachers, scientists, professional people, artists and writers from every latitude for  the solidarity they demonstrated during those long years when critical ideas, creativity and freedom of expression  were denied in Chile. Thank you for the support you gave us during those difficult years.
(6.7) Within this framework of democratic transition and in the context of an important process of economic  growth in which the principle of equity is being safeguarded, major tasks are being undertaken in Chile whose  ultimate purpose is in keeping with UNESCO's aims and recommendations. The prospects for the education  system, scientific research and cultura] creativity are open wide in Chile today. They are beginning to experience  the advantages of the material incentives and the institutional postulates that are essential if they are fully to meet  their obligation to serve mankind and all the people of Chile.
(6.8) The educational policy which we are implementing has three aims: first, to improve the quality of the  education system; second, to pursue action to ensure equity and provide the same quality of education on an equal  basis among all sections of Chilean society; and, third, to create the conditions for the participation by all the
129   social sectors and individuals concerned in developing what must be the content of an educational policy with a  national thrust.
(6.9) In Chile we have, to a large extent, implemented the measures that educational action demands.  Coverage is close to 100 per cent in basic education and 75 per cent in secondary education. What we have to do  now is to improve the quality of courses and give them greater relevance. With the results obtained from objective  quality evaluation systems, we are able to develop mechanisms to raise levels in sectors where quality is poor.  With the identification of zones and schools most at risk in educational terms, we have accordingly set up an  initial emergency programme to give priority attention to 1,400 of the 9,000 schools in Chile where education is  provided free of charge. In other words, we are concentrating on sectors where there are fewer schools and are  giving them greater educational support. At the same time we have been working on the alignment of secondary  education which, traditionally, has been directed towards academic subjects, often divorced from the real world.  We are now linking education with the world of production and development.
(6.10) We shall be faced by the task in the near future of increasing the period of compulsory schooling from 8  to 10 years, an operation for which arrangements are already at an advanced stage. What we are seeking to  introduce is schooling covering a minimum period of ten years, but reflecting quality and relevance. It implies  education that will combine scientific, humanist and technological aspects and enable pupils to understand today's  new world and take part in the ongoing process of its transformation.
(6.11) In our educational development efforts we have combined technical and pedagogical measures and  improvements in the infrastructure with policies designed to help families and students to take advantage of the  opportunities available. To this end, we have stepped up the distribution of free textbooks, increased the  provision of school meals and introduced an ambitious scholarship scheme for students in higher education. As  far as teaching staff are concerned, we have recently enacted new legislation to ensure betier working and  professional conditions and stability of employment.
(6.12) In higher education we have restored the self-governing tradition of academic bodies and today,  universities, institutes and centres of excellence are, with government backing, working to ensure education of a  higher quality, the development of scientific research and the most appropriate lines of emphasis that should  guide the university's task in keeping with Chile's national needs and those of its regions.
(6.13) We have also given special attention to culture, an area where the function of the State is to act as a  stimulus, far removed from any idea of control or paternalism, and to seek to ensure that responsibility for the  cultural sector is assumed by civil society, private enterprise, social organizations and creative artists and cultural  communicators themselves.
(6.14) Our science and technology development policy is directed along similar lines. The State has increased  its participation in the funding of research and development but we are, at the same time, inviting firms to invest  in this sector to an increasing extent, not for reasons to do with philanthropy or social responsibility, but as an  economic necessity in the medium and long term.
(6.15) Underlying all these initiatives is a new concept of participation, moving away from the old idea that the  improvement of education, science and culture should be the exclusive responsibility of the State. The major  problems that we have to tackle make it necessary for society in its entirety to take a more active part in the task  of improving and transforming education, developing science and technology and stimulating cultural creativity.
(6.16) We have said that in Chile ‘education is the task of everyone’, and that education policy must once again  be the policy of the State, in the medium and the long term, based on broad national agreements. Accordingly, in  addition to the decision-making procedure in education consisting of laws which are discussed and approved by a  democratically clected parliament, there must be efforts to strengthen the organization of the social actors  involved in education and to create, or broaden, the channels of social participation in educational matters. For  this purpose norms have been laid down which are designed to improve the organization of parents, secondary-  level students and teaching staff in councils of teachers. We have set up Provincial Councils of Education and are  discussing other schemes to enable the major partners involved in education to take part in consultation on a  national basis. We are paying particular attention to co-operation between management, workers and teachers and  the public sector in developing the education for work sector. For some time now education systems in our  countries have bcen divorced from the production system. While this situation persists, we shall not be in a  position to face up to the problems of the next century. We are also encouraging local participation, and the  democratic election of municipal bodies will shortly ensure proper participation in education systems at the local  level as well.
(6.17) The invitation to the Chilean people to participate more fully in educational matters would not have  aroused such a considerable response were it not for the growing conviction that education is now occupying a  new place in the public life of Chile. It has ceased to be simply a human or consumer right. Education has clearly
130   become - and will be to an even greater extent in the future - a central requirement in the development process  itself.
(6.18) Weighing heavily on our education systems in Latin America is the fact of our imminent entry into the  twenty-first century, with all its fantastic prospects of scientific and technological development. But - and this  must be done in a realistic rather than any symbolic way - our education systems are also called upon to support  the process of transforming production on an equitable basis, for this is the only strategy capable of extricating us  from the consequences of the crisis of the 1980s and setting us on course towards a world economy undergoing  rapid change.
(6.19) The new conditions governing the international market can be clearly perceived today; only those  countries or groups of countries which succeed in incorporating a value-added component in their production can  compete successfully under such conditions. The era of the simple transformation and sale of raw materials is  over and done with. Today - and this will be even truer in the near future - we can only compete successfully if  we bring knowledge to production; in other words, only if we are capable of adding scientific and technological  complexity to the materials we extract from nature. We have to include creativity among our inputs and find  original answers to the demands of a constantly changing market.
(6.20) Knowledge and creativity are not the special characteristics of small minorities. Having regard to the  new conditions of scientific and technological development, and in the democratic political context, it is the  population in its entirety - and, more especially, the broad sectors of entrepreneurs, professional people and  workers - that must have access to modern knowledge and develop aptitudes and skills in line with the  transformation of production. This involves education in a new drive towards development that will create  national scientific and technological capacity.
(6.21) This is what is being demonstrated today by the developed countries. Public concern in the older  developed countries is increasingly focused on the way in which education systems are providing capacity in the  domain of science and technology. Education for development has become a political and economic issue of the  first order. Accordingly, our concern must now be to see how we can improve the quality of life with the aim of  ensuring ecologically sustainable development.
(6.22) In this world context, education systems can only compete efficiently if they are properly linked with the  production system. Today - and in the future - in a world where frontiers have been obliterated, the contribution  that education is capable of making will alone determine our real capacity in terms of competence.
(6.23) In the light of this new state of things, Mr President, we have to rethink UNESCO's function. Perhaps,  with these new prospects before us, we should not look at the Organization as an aggregate of nation-states co-  operating with one another within the framework of UNESCO's co-ordination. What is essential is that  educational, scientific and cultural systems within each country should now be co-ordinated by UNESCO in its  new role.
(6.24) We must think of UNESCO as a major instrument in building a world framework for education, science  and culture; as a universal forum, a place where different cultural and ideological views come into contact and are  compared and where the common heritage of mankind can be safeguarded in a context of growing economic  competition.
(6.25) We must introduce aspects of administrative and financial disciplines into UNESCO, while preserving  its original character as a universal forum for intellectual co-operation and the expression of the conscience of  mankind. In other words, UNESCO must, without discarding its underlying values and ideals, nevertheless ensure  that such values defer to the requirements of efficiency in our day and age. This means correlating UNESCO's  work with that of the other Specialized Agencies in the United Nations system so as to avoid any duplication of  effort.
(6.26) Technical and financial assistance can only be provided by the World Bank, UNDP and other funding  bodies. UNESCO, with its modest budget, cannot compete in this area. What it has to do, however, is to act as a  stimulus and catalyst in the promotion of programmes in its own fields of competence; it must also establish  flexible links with those organizations for the development and co-ordination of joint projects. Through a scheme  such as this, UNESCO can give an individual dimension to major world problems and co-operate in specific  projects designed to provide solutions for each of our countries.
(6.27) With an approach such as this, the developing countries expect a fundamental contribution from  UNESCO in the task of acquiring that advanced knowledge which, concentrated in a few highly developed  countries, is progressing at a headlong pace. The Organization has to form a vital bridge to facilitate our access to  such knowledge so as to transform it into the heritage of humankind in its entirety.
(6.28) Accordingly, Mr President, at this General Conference my country will endorse all initiatives which  seek to give fresh thought to UNESCO's function in a world of increasingly rapid change. For our part, we shall  continue to work for the achievement in Chile of the major objectives of development and humanism to which,  with the countries united with us in this world forum, we have given our support.
(6.29) Today, the values on which UNESCO was founded are more perennially valid than ever. We are doing  our utmost to uphold these values. Thank you, Mr President; thank you, distinguished delegates.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Chile.
7.2 May I again ask delegates to try to observe the time-limit: practically all of them this morning have  exceeded the time-limit.
7.3 I now call on HE. Mr Tzannis Tzannetakis, Vice-Prime Minister and head of the delegation of  Greece.
8.1 Mr TZANNETAKIS (Greece):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first of all, Mr President, to congratulate  you on your election to the presidency of the General Conference. Your wisdom and authority will guide us, I  am sure, in our debates to a successful outcome of our endeavours. Let me also address my warm thanks to all  of you who honoured my country as well as me personally by electing me as one of the Vice-Presidents of the  General Conference; I will spare no effort towards the accomplishment of the objectives of the Organization. I  truly hope and wish that all Member States gathered here will contribute in a spirit of conciliation and  creativity to the success of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference. I should also like to thank the  Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Federico Mayor, and the Secretariat for the excellent preparation of this  session, but especially for the accomplished presentation of the draft programme, with its handy statistical  tables, anatytical reports on the distribution of funds and better classification of the different projects of the next  biennium.
8.2 I should also like to welcome Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu to the Organization, countries  which I am sure will enrich UNESCO with their long cultural tradition.
8.3 Mr President, the events that have occurred since the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference  have been so radical and momentous that they have caused important changes to the world, inflected to the  United Nations system itself. This period has demonstrated in a striking fashion the historic transition through  which the world is passing. The peoples of the world now consciously choose dialogue and negotiation as a way  of settlement of disputes, they opt for the implementation of generally accepted rules for the respect of  fundamental freedoms and human rights. The struggles waged for democracy and freedom have today been  vindicated worldwide. And Greece feels particular satisfaction at this, not only as the cradle of democracy but  also because this coincides with the coming celebration of the 2,500 years from the time democracy was born  on Greek soil.
8.4 If freedom of speech and equality before the law constituted the foundations of the direct democracy of  ancient Greece, for the people of today, the respective equivalents are, among others, human and constitutional  rights. These are the very principles on which the efforts to achieve a radical and peaceful change of the  situation in South Africa are based. And it is upon the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes that the  strict condemnation of any kind of aggression and occupation is also based, as was clearly expressed by the  international community during the war in the Gulf.
8.5 The genuine will of the peoples not only to respect but also to assert fundamental freedoms can be  clearly seen in the recent efforts to settle long-standing disputes, such as those concerning the Middle East and  Cyprus, that have been deadlocked for many years.
8.6 One could say that the opening made in the Berlin Wall during the night of 9 November 1989, has let  through the new hope of a united humanity. Let us, on the threshold of the twenty-first century and in a world  in the throes of change, embrace once and for all the belief that what unites people is incomparably more  significant than what divides them. Although the present period of widespread transition is one of uncertainty,  it none the less offers a unique occasion for international co-operation. UNESCO is called at this stage to play a
132   special role since education, science, communication and culture in all their forms constitute the corner-stones  for the consolidation of a new historic period that coincides with the transition to a new millennium. Let us  give UNESCO precedence over everybody else in matters clearly belonging to its fields of competence.
8.7 On the other hand, we should not forget that the survival of an organization in a changing world will  depend almost exclusively on its ability to adapt to the new conditions. That is why the readaptation of  UNESCO's role is a widely shared demand. Bearing this in mind, we consider that the Director-General's  contribution and ceaseless efforts to reform the Organization have been significant, and have already produced  the first results. We should like to encourage him to continue his endeavours in this direction. Furthermore, our  government regards the Japanese proposal aimed at improving the efficiency of the Executive Board as a very  important step in the right direction. Greece, as a member of the European Community, played an active role in  the process which has resulted in the adoption of a common position by all Member States, bearing always in  mind that the derived adaptation of UNESCO to the new era and international environment should occur with  the least possible side-effects. During this time of changes in our world and in UNESCO, we feel it is  appropriate to launch an appeal to all States to rejoin the Organization and work together with us to tackle the  problems of our demanding era.
8.8 I should now like to come to the main axes of UNESCO's activity for the years 1992-1993, to which  my government gives its full support: the spread of basic education and literacy; the protection of the  environment and rational use of natural resources; higher education and the promotion of research in the  natural and social sciences; the free flow of information and its wider and better balanced dissemination,  without any obstacles to freedom of expression; the promotion of human rights and peace in UNESCO's fields  of competence; and, finally, the special project to eliminate apartheid, as well as activities aiming at the  dissemination of democratic values. In regard to the last topic we believe that, considering UNESCO's great  experience, particularly after the Montevideo Conference and the Forum of Prague, the Organization could and  should play a major role.
3.9 If freedom is directly linked to democracy, it is education that constitutes the pillar it will be based  upon. We should also not forget that the sooner the gap between industrialized and developing countries  narrows, the faster freedom will take a real universal dimension. Therefore, Major Programme Area I  Education and the future’, and especially the programme Towards basic education for all, are of capital  importance and UNESCO should put all its forces at their disposal, in co-operation with the broader  international movement triggered by the Jomtien Conference. At the same time, we should continue our effort  towards the renewal of the contents and methods of education in order to give more emphasis to its humanistic,  cultural and democratic dimensions and to include matters threatening today's world, such as AIDS, drugs and  environmental pollution.
8.10 At this point, I should like to express my deep appreciation for the work accomplished by the  International Bureau of Education, the International Institute for Educational Planning and the Hamburg  Institute for Education, expressing also the wish that these bodies be more actively involved in educational  matters of an even wider scope.
8.11 The importance of science in the contemporary world cannot be overemphasized. Governments of the  world, international organizations and private companies spend every day huge sums for the advancement of  science. UNESCO cannot, as we all know, compete with those voluminous budgets. However, using its  experience and prestige, UNESCO can assist the scientific community by increasing the latter's awareness of  some new realities and in defining priorities. It can also make public opinion more sensitive to the new critical  problems humanity is facing.
8.12 As far as the environment and natural resources management are concerned, our country wishes to  express its full support for the activities of the 'Man and the Biosphere' Programme (MAB), the International  Hydrological Programme (IHP), the International Geological Correlation Programme (IGCP) and the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), all of which are of capital importance. These  programmes should in their different ways contribute to the preparation of the United Nations Conference on  Environment and Development, to be held in Rio de Janeiro, next year.
8.13 Regarding the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), we should like to express our  satisfaction at its restored autonomy and we wish to see the activities of this Commission further strengthened  in order to enable it to play even more efficiently its important role in its field of competence.
8.14 As a country often affected by earthquakes, Greece attributes great importance to the programme on  ‘Earth sciences and natural hazards’, with particular concern for earthquake risk reduction. It is in the  framework of this project that UNESCO has opted for the creation of a specialized network in the Balkan  region, in order to study the seismic activity. Separate reference should be made to the informatics activities of  UNESCO and particularly to the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme (IIP). Our country 1s convinced  that this programme could be of the greatest help to the developing countries in such a critical sector as  computer application. However, computer technology should not be allowed to widen the gap between the rich  and the poor of this world. On the contrary, it should be used as a tool to break the vicious circle of  underdevelopment.
8.15 As a country participating in technological evolution, we cannot but stress the importance given to the  natural sciences and their own ‘raison d'etre’. We should nevertheless recognize that progress in this sector  alone does not automatically improve the conditions of our lives on the whole, especially if it is isolated from  the human factor and the question on the future of human beings on this planet. The human, social and cultural  sciences will hopefully, if properly studied, point the way for regaining the lost balance. I have therefore left the  subject of culture to the last, for a more detailed reference. This is only natural for a country like Greece, with a  continuous cultural presence of more than three thousand years. Culture is an inexhaustible force from which  modern man can draw knowledge, power and courage to face the changes of a very busy, fast-driven and  devastating world.
8.16 The international community wisely expresses through UNESCO its sensitivities and priorities,  considering culture as of equivalent importance to the natural heritage, since both areas are equally at risk from  the consequences of an uncontrolled industrial civilization and a misunderstood concept of development. I  consider, however, that the low budget proposed for the projects and activities concerned covers only partially  the actual needs for the preservation and enrichment of the cultural heritage. The active participation of Greece  in the World Heritage Committee and in the Committee for the return of cultural property to its countries of  origin, shows our particular interest for these subjects which we all know are crucial for countries with a  cultural tradition like Greece. On this occasion, I should very much like to refer to the positive report of the  session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Return of Cultural Property, which was held in Athens last  April. The main point of reference of this report was the protection - self-protection, if you wish - of countries  from the illicit traffic of cultural property through the establishment of a data bank to which Greece will of  course accord high priority, with the contribution of UNESCO.
8.17 — At this point, reference must be made to the problem of the restitution of the Parthenon Marbles to  Greece and to the positive part that UNESCO has played since 1982. This restitution had been formerly related  to the creation of an exhibition area near the Acropolis, and we are now in a position to announce the positive  results of an international architectural competition. The plans and models that resulted from this competition  will shortly be shown at UNESCO Headquarters for the benefit of specialists and the general public.
8.18 In this broad context of the restitution of cultural property, I should like to raise another matter of  equal importance for the whole world and particularly for Hellenism, namely the preservation of the cultural  heritage of Cyprus. We think that combined efforts aimed at the safeguarding and preservation of the cultural  properties of the island of Cyprus are an imperative duty for the whole international community.
8.19 My country has actively contributed to the selection, evaluation and scientific classification of  monuments of capital historic and cultural value to the world for inclusion in the World Heritage List. This  study, which should be extended in order to obtain a complete view of all civilizations of humanity, was the  work of two Greek archaeologists and is already considered as a model for similar studies.
8.20 Let me now turn to the important programme of the World Decade for Cultural Development, which I  also consider to be of high priority. However, additional efforts are necessary for this ambitious project to  regain new impetus which, combined with extra-budgetary funds, can respond to our expectations.
8.21 Mr President, our country attributes capital importance to the activities of the General Information  Programme and in particular to the development and better documentation of archives and libraries since they  constitute the ark of our civilization. Within the framework of our endeavours to preserve our written cultural  heritage and in implementation of the respective principles of UNESCO, we are undertaking a most important  effort: I refer to a project for the unification and computerization of the libraries of Greek and foreign  archaeological schools in Athens. This project, combined with the unification of other national and university
134   libraries in Greece, will constitute a data bank, which linked with similar institutions elsewhere, will be the  first important step towards the creation of an international documentation centre of Greek thought, for which  UNESCO has already demonstrated a special interest.
8.22 I would like to refer now to the efforts for the revival of the Alexandria Library. My country attaches  particular interest to the promotion of this project, to which it is prepared to make a significant contribution  through its participation in the 15-member International Committee.
8.23 As to the programme of representative works, 'Crossroad of Cultures’, Greece, a country with a rich  and well-known literary and intellectual production, ardently favours any efforts for the translation and  dissemination of remarkable literary works in languages that are not widely spoken.
8.24 In this period of historical changes, activities concerning cultural identities and intercultural relations  arc becoming a priority for our Organization and, at the same time, a challenge to deal with serious and  sensitive matters such as fundamentalism and nationalism. We have already shown our interest with our  proposal to host in Athens the Editors’ meeting for the preparation of the sixth volume of the History of the  Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind’, devoted to the nineteenth century. Finally, Greece as a  Mediterranean and Balkan country, wishes to express its satisfaction for the support lent by UNESCO to studics  concerning Balkan and Mediterranean history, to be carried out in co-operation with regional non-  governmental organizations.
8.25 Bearing in mind the need to create a multicultural environment, I need not stress the importance we  attach to the creation, creativity and copyright activities of UNESCO.
8.26 Mr President, my allowance of time is coming to an end, so I shall interrupt my statement here. But I  would, however, like to make one or two final remarks.
8.27 It has not escaped our notice that we are approaching the turn of the century amidst high agitation;  once again, the map of the world seems to lose its coherence. It is exactly in periods like ours that humankind  needs contemplation, evaluation and self-consciousness. I am sure that UNESCO, the educational, scientific  and cultural organization of the United Nations, will have a very important role to play. More emphasis should  be given to ethical and cultural values, somewhat forgotten in our age of prosperity. Scientific and  technological progress can prove disastrous if not inspired by the basic principles of humanistic studies and  respect for the human being.
8.28  Itis the duty of us all to keep the sky clear so that our children and grandchildren may watch the stars  dream and hope. This is not a choice, it is a duty. Thank you, Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Greece and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Isidro Cariño,  Secretary of Education, Culture and Sports, and head of the delegation of the Philippines.
10.1 — Mr CARINO (Philippines):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, the Philippine delegation shares the sentiments of other delegations in  offering you, Mr President, our congratulations for the honour and faith accorded you to preside over the  deliberations of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We express confidence that,  with all your distinguished credentials, you will steer this Conference towards achieving its goals and  objectives. I wish to take this opportunity to convey to all delegations and to all officials of this Conference, the  greetings of H.E. President Corazan C. Aquino and of the people of the Republic of the Philippines.
10.2 Mr President, the General Conference meets today against a background of major historical changes.  We have entered the post-Cold War era where confrontation between ideological blocs is replaced by co-  operation. À new world order is indeed shaping up, based on a better respect for international law. But while  peace dividends are coming about, new concerns of different dimensions are taking centre stage. Among these  are problems caused by ethnic strife, the considerable indifference to social aspirations by people, religious  intransigence and intolerance to different values and beliefs. All these new dangers need to be seriously  observed since they may develop into conflicts in some or all societies. UNESCO's competences do have a very
135   significant role to play in restraining or containing these new risks, particularly through the assertion by the  Organization of its ethics and morals on these concerns.
10.3 Mr President, although there are now new prospects for peace and development, the world continues to  be confronted by the problem of illiteracy and ignorance. Education must play a key role in development. We  need not emphasize further that a well-educated and appropriately trained population will serve as the strong  backbone of economically prosperous societies.
10.4 The Philippines has a blueprint for national survival, containing the most urgent of priorities for  ensuring the full and uninterrupted development of our country's most important resource - its people. This,  Mr President, is the Philippine Plan of Action on Education for All (EFA) which has been proclaimed by no  less than H.E. President Corazon C. Aquino on 16 October 1989. After the formulation of the EFA framework,  which served as the basis for the development of the programmes and projects, a National Plan of Action has  now been put together in response to the call for total war on poverty and the quest for peace and sustainable  development. It is a commitment that basic educational needs will be met by focusing on four major  development areas, first, the institutionalization of early childhood care and development as a basic service for  all children; second, the universalization of quality basic education; third, the eradication of illiteracy; and  fourth, continuing education for adults and out-of-school youth. The EFA is not merely a listing of things to be  done by our country within this debate. It is a commitment that basic needs will be met and basic rights will be  guaranteed. It is hoped that with the fulfilment of such needs and guarantee of such rights, present and future  generations of Filipinos will attain development. In short, Mr President, the Philippine Plan of Action on  Education for All is about investing in a future that will make possible a happy and self-reliant nation.  (M. Ricardo Lagos Escobar, Chili, prend la présidence)
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Isidoro Cariño is not feeling well and will take the floor again later on. I now call upon  H.E. Professor Fuad Hassan, Minister of Education and Culture, head of the delegation of Indonesia.
12.1 Mr HASSAN (Indonesia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on  behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Indonesia, I bave the honour to join the other speakers in offering  our warmest congratulations to Mr Ogot on his election as President of this session of the General Conference.
12.2 Mr President, permit me to start immediately with my comments on the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1992-1993. The Indonesian delegation endorses in principle the work plans of all seven major programme  areas and transverse themes spelled out in the draft programme, because practically all the relevant activities,  with the exception of activities linked to work plans designed specifically for implementation in regions outside  Indonesia, are in conformity with our nation's current medium- and long-term national development plan.  Indonesia would therefore like to participate in the implementation of as many action plans as possible.
12.3 In conformity with the commitment of the Government of Indonesia to provide basic education for all  Indonesian children between the ages of 7 and 15 and with our endeavours to provide basic education for older  citizens who have missed the opportunity to acquire basic education in the past, Indonesia particularly endorses  the priority given in Programme 1.1. to basic education for all.
12.4 — Since nearly all children between the ages of 7 and 12 - in Indonesia comprising a total number of  more than 26 million children - have already acquired access to primary schools in the last few years, the  present priority for development activities in this field is placed on endeavours to improve the quality of basic  education and on expanding access to the upper part of basic education, previously known as education  provided through the junior secondary schools. Indonesia is therefore much interested in the implementation of  projects aimed at improving the quality of education and pupils’ achievements, and at retraining primary  education personnel. At the same time we are continuing our tasks in combating the last vestiges of illiteracy  and in promoting literacy and continuing education, including education for women, in our extensive  archipelago.
125 To enhance the quality, relevance and efficiency of higher education and to reform our higher  education system, Indonesia endorses the action programmes designed to reinforce and adapt higher education  and the education of teachers to the changing needs of society. Since last year we have shifted teacher education  for future primary-school teachers from the secondary education level to that of higher education.  Consequently, Indonesia also endorses the action plans concerned with promoting the advancement of  education and volving endeavours to promote the renewal of teacher education policies and programmes.  Since we cannot hope to improve education without strengthening the qualifications and status of teachers, it is  desirable to adopt a convention concerning the status of teachers, and an instrument concerning higher  education teachers.
12.6 ~~ Mr President, Indonesia has the largest tropical forest area in Asia, which is partly being exploited as  an important economic resource. The government is promoting reforestation, agroforestry development and  other types of action to improve the depleted forests and degraded lands and to reduce the pressure on primary  forest areas in supplying raw material for forest industries and to satisfy the needs of the rural population for  timber and wood. However, the scientific basis for planning such efforts needs to be strengthened. Therefore,  integrated research on restoration ecology is needed to make such an undertaking successful. Indonesia is  pleased that research and training programmes on restoration ecology are part of UNESCO's Man and the  Biosphere programme.
12.7 Mr President, being a country where improvement of the status of women is systematically being  pursued, co-ordinated by my colleague, the Minister of the Role of Women, Indonesia fully endorses such  action plans as the organization of regional seminars and workshops to sensitize policy-makers, planners,  curriculum developers, teaching material and audio-visual specialists to the need to conduct educational  programmes based on the realistic roles of women as economic producers and family supporters.
12.8 Indonesia also endorses such action plans as those related to the organization of regional workshops on  engineering education for women engineers, and support for a women engineers network.
12.9 Indonesia is much gratified by the fact that UNESCO is enlarging its interest in youth affairs. Ours is a  relatively young nation and a young republic where the socialization of our youth proved to be of a decisive  influence on the shaping of our nation and hence also of our future. Mobilizing Project 2 - Youth shaping the  future - 1s in accord with our own national action plans pertaining to endeavours to promote the interests of our  young generation as co-ordinated by my colleague, the Minister of Youth and Sports. We, therefore, endorse  the entire action plan and wish to take part in its implementation. Indonesia also endorses such action plans as  those concerning the meeting of experts on new forms of education and training that help young people to enter  the world of work and play their part in society; the drafting of an interdisciplinary information programme for  youth organizations concerning the participation of young people in national development; and support for  intercultural youth exchange programmes and the improvement of their impact.
12.10 Mr President, allow me now to make my comments on communication and culture. In the field of  communication, the major programme area is rightly referred to as ‘Communication in the service of humanity".  Nevertheless, in its action programmes, the religious, cultural, political and economic heterogeneity of our vast  humanity should constantly be taken into consideration. Naturally, economic and technological forces tend to  be dominant in shaping the structure and content of the world's communication system where information tends  to be transformed into a commodity. Improvement of education has created an increasing need and desire for  more information about a greater variety of problems. However, the development of the capacity to produce and  to distribute information varies widely from country to country, particularly among the developing countries,  where present imbalances in the world system of communication has turned many of these countries into mere  consumers of information produced by vastly superior producers of information. These imbalances naturally  contribute significantly to the formation of perceptions with respect to other nations and States, in turn having  bearing on the shaping of economic, political, cultural and other relationships among our nations. With this  basic problem in mind, Indonesia supports in principle the action programmes which are associated with Major  Programme Area IV pertaining to the field of communication.
12.11 Mr President, we are now in the first years of the World Decade for Cultural Development. In  Indonesia, we are paying more and more attention to the cultural factors in development, perhaps mostly  because of our own development experiences in the past that cultural factors should not be ignored in the  national development process. Consequently, we are intensifying efforts to support cultural pluralism while at  the same time strengthening our shared national culture in anticipation of the twenty-first century. We are also
137   intensifying efforts to promote the development of cultural industries to facilitate cultural exchanges and the  mutual appreciation of cultures, In addition, we are endeavouring to increase activities designed to contribute to  the preservation and dissemination of our non-physical cultural heritage as well as promoting intercultural  relations among our culturally pluralistic population. In the last week of this month a nationwide cultural  congress will take place in Jakarta with the participation of hundreds of leading figures to discuss a broad  variety of cultural issues.
12.12 Being conscious of the importance of the four areas of action associated with the World Decade for  Cultural Development and the benefits of international co-operation in the implementation of the relevant  programmes, the Indonesian delegation supports the setting up of an international programme until 1997, when  the decade ends. Through the relevant activities, we expect to learn from other nations and hope that we, too,  can contribute ideas or models for other interested nations with respect to the preservation of cultural heritage  and the creation of new cultural elements and manifestations for the further enhancement of our respective  cultures.
12.13 However, Mr President, I feel compelled to point out that much to our dismay, our endeavour to  preserve our cultural heritage is being countered - if not undermined - by alien cultural influences made  possible by the application of superior communication and information technology. Through various media and  programmes our youth are increasingly attracted to these continuously broadcast manifestations of particular  forms of alien cultures. We all know the admirable publications in the field of culture, which have been  produced by UNESCO. But since more effective communication technology is now also available, I venture to  propose that UNESCO make effective use of this media to assist the interested Member States in developing a  more balanced repertoire with respect to cultural and information broadcasting programmes, This can be done  by setting up a UNESCO television broadcasting station to which Member States contribute programmes which  in turn can be rebroadcast by the television stations of the respective Member States for I presume, Mr  President, that the unintended alienation of the upcoming generations from their own cultural heritage -  particularly in the developing countries - is not what should take place in the Decade for Cultural Development  proclaimed by the United Nations.
12.14 I also submit that this is precisely the kind of problem - a problem of perhaps many countries in our  world - which UNESCO is meant to deal with, indeed, a challenge which UNESCO has to face in the future.  Obviously, with respect to such problems, bilateral agreements are no substitute for UNESCO's role in seeking  commonly acceptable solutions to our common problems and in promoting multilateral co-operation in matters  of common concern.
12.15 While being greatly concerned about the cultural problems I have just mentioned, Indonesia is in  general agreement with respect to Major Programme Area III which deals with culture: past, present, and  future.
12.16 Finally, Mr President, as a logical consequence of our concern about the future of our indigenous  cultures, we in Indonesia are greatly interested in realistic future-oriented studies of cultural development and  the workings of multicultural societies such as ours. We entertain the hope that these studies will make the  relevant policy-makers and the general public in each of our societies much more aware of the serious cultural  problems we are actually faced with in order to undertake effective appropriate measures in anticipation of the  coming century.
12.17 Mr President and Mr Director-General, be assured of the continuous support of the Republic of  Indonesia for efforts and initiatives which would bring UNESCO and all its Member States closer to our shared  objectives. Thank you.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Indonesia. I now call upon H.E. Mr Loku Bandara, Minister of  Cultural Affairs and Information, head of the delegation of Sri Lanka.
14.1 Mr BANDARA (Sri Lanka):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies,  distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, 'Ayubowan - May you live long'. I deem it a great pleasure and  indeed a privilege to lead once more the Sri Lankan delegation to the General Conference of UNESCO. This  gives me an opportunity to review the achievements as well as the constraints of UNESCO over the first two  biennia of its third Medium-Term Plan.
14.2 Mr President, let me at the very outset offer to Mr Ogot, on behalf of my delegation and on my own  behalf, our heartiest congratulations on his election. His richly deserved elevation to this position is a  recognition of not only his scholarship but also the importance of his country, Kenya, in the African region and  the international community.
14.3 Mr President, friends, 1 bring you the most cordial greetings of H.E. Mr Ranasinghe Premadasa,  President of the Republic of Sri Lanka. Not only does he extend his best wishes for a successful session of the  General Conference but he also expresses his sincere thanks to UNESCO for a biennium of landmark events  formerly part of a history of exactly 40 years of close and fruitful co-operation in the development of our  country. The official visit of the Director-General in December 1990 coincided with the arrival of the Silk Road  scholars aboard the ship Fulk Al-Salama. The international seminar on 'Sri Lanka as the mid-point in the  maritime silk route and the point of convergence of different traditions of Buddhist philosophy’ was a  tremendous success. Sri Lankan scholars marked the occasion with the publication of a splendid - and  colourful - volume of research articles on the subject under the title "Sri Lanka in the Maritime Silk Route’. The  report of the Conference, which is under preparation, will prove to be another contribution to scholarship.
144 The Director-General was also able to time his visit to coincide with the celebration of the tenth  anniversary of the UNESCO-WFP-Sri Lanka Cultural Triangle Programme. The distinguished members of the  International Working Group for the Cultural Triangle who visited the six sites with the Director-General  commended the steady progress made and the strict adherence to international norms of excavation,  conservation and research. We are delighted and indeed grateful that this unique programme for the  preservation of outstanding monuments has been selected as one of the four projects to be proposed for  accelerated implementation in the forthcoming biennium. May I request your kind co-operation in approving  this proposal.
14.5 — À much appreciated by-product of UNESCO-Sri Lanka collaboration in the field of safeguarding the  cultural heritage is that two more sites - Kandy and Galle - have been included in the World Heritage List and  Sri Lanka's Director-General of the Central Cultural Fund, Dr Roland Silva, has been elected as President of  ICOMOS. The nomination of Dambulla will come before the World Heritage Committee this year.
146 Sri Lanka is also conscious of the special opportunity accorded to it to present to the distinguished  participants in the General Conference a facet of Sri Lanka's magnificent cultural heritage. We are grateful to  UNESCO for selecting the cave paintings of Dambulla and the Bodhisattva statue of Dambegoda for the special  exhibition to be held in UNESCO House from 22 to 29 October. May I also inform you of the generosity of the  Government of France, which has organized at the Musée Guimet a four-month exhibition of outstanding  specimens of Buddhist and Hindu bronze statues commencing on 21 October. The greater part of this amazing  collection of bronzes, which depict not only Sri Lanka's artistic traditions but also its technological skills, has  been unearthed during the last ten years as a result of the great fillip given to archaeological exploration by the  Cultural Triangle Programme.
14.7 President Premadasa, who also holds the portfolio of Minister of Buddha Sasana, appreciates the  technical assistance which UNESCO has given through its General Information Programme to the development  of a project to establish an international Buddhist research information centre. We have introduced a resolution  on this project asking for not only the continuing co-operation of UNESCO through related activities in the  context of its General Information Programme, the Integral Study of the Silk Routes and the World Decade for  Cultural Development but, more importantly, the support and solidarity of the international community. We  request your support for our appeal because the vast heritage of Buddhist literature and an equally vast legacy  of 200 years of international research remain to be made accessible to a waiting world through state-of-the-art  communication and information technologies.
148 Mr President, UNESCO's co-operation in the national development of Sri Lanka has also progressed in  its other fields of competence. The Open University of Sri Lanka, which is internationally recognized as a
139   model institution for distance education, is now fully fledged and represents a remarkable landmark in  UNESCO's initiatives in this field. Equally significant are the continuing advances made in the  vocationalization of secondary education, resulting from several decades of co-operation with UNESCO in the  fields of vocational and non-formal education. We are grateful to the Director-General for the prompt  assistance given to us to rehabilitate schools which were damaged in the floods of June 1990. In the field of  science and technology, the collaboration of UNESCO in the programme of the Institute of Fundamental  Studies and the National Aquatic Resources Authority has made a significant contribution. We are equally  mindful of the immense value of UNESCO's initiative in the development of rural broadcasting.
149 Mr President, if I were to mention all that UNESCO has been able to do or is now doing in Sri Lanka,  it would be a long and impressive list. But let me mention only two events which we look forward to in the near  future. The first is a subregional workshop to field-test the experiments designed for schools in biotechnology,  and the other is a subregional seminar on the education of street children and working children. Both are due to  take place within a few months. Sri Lanka is always ready to place at UNESCO's disposal all her infrastructure  as well as her highly qualified and motivated manpower for further activities internationally and regionally.
14.10 Mr President, friends, it gives me an added pleasure to be able to review with the utmost satisfaction  UNESCO's achievements during the current biennium. The decision of the United States Congress to send a  high-level auditing and accounting team to take stock of UNESCO's management reforms and the recent debate  in the British House of Commons are encouraging signs that the problem of universality of the Organization  will soon be resolved. We invite the two great nations to rejoin the Organization and pursue their traditional  role as highly esteemed partners in multilateral co-operation.
14.11 While we are dismayed to be presented with a budget which in real terms marks a negative growth - a  measure we cannot accept other than as a desperate last resort - my delegation congratulates the Director-  General on the courage and foresight embodied in his steps to save as much as 11 million US dollars in the  national increase. We endorse the proposals of the Director-General for continuing reform of the management  of the Organization. We must however voice our concern that cutting down personnel should not be pursued to  the detriment of the standards of programme implementation which Member States have learned to expect from  UNESCO.
14.12 We are equally grateful to the Government of Japan for not only initiating long-awaited reforms in the  composition and procedures of work of the Organization's governing bodies but also for the understanding and  flexibility it has shown in the negotiations, especially with the Group of 77. My delegation is pleased that Sri  Lanka's amendment to the Japanese proposals as regards the frequency of the meetings of the Executive Board  has been favourably received. We support the measures proposed and particularly look forward to the creation  of the Advisory Committee on Finance and Administration.
14.13 In this connection, may I express to you our gratitude for the confidence you have placed in Sri Lanka  by electing H.E. Dr Ananda W.P. Guruge as Chairman of the Administrative Commission of this General  Conference. Not only is he an eminent scholar in Asian history and Buddhist studies but also an educator of  repute and an administrator whose skills have been tried out nationally and internationally.
14.14 Mr President, friends, may I now be permitted to outline briefly Sri Lanka's record of activities in  education, science, culture and communications, not so much as a country report but as an attempt to share  experiences with the object of highlighting issues and concerns which should receive the attention of the  international community.
14.15 A major innovation in the field of education during the period under review relates to institutional and  procedural arrangements made to streamline the process of formulating and enforcing educational policy. With  the wide-ranging advances made in Sri Lanka in diversifying the delivery systems of education and with the  progressive steps taken to devolve authority and responsibility to Provincial Councils and local authorities, a  vital need was felt for co-ordination of educational policy formulation by the highest national authority.
14.16 A similar measure has been taken in the field of science and technology with the establishment of the  Presidential Task Force to examine the needs for the development of science and technology in Sri Lanka in the  light of the economic policies of the government, including its strategies for industrialization, agricultural  modernization, poverty alleviation and market-driven and trade-led growth.
14.17 With the liberalization of the economy which commenced 13 years ago, the private sector has been  encouraged to participate in all development activities. The science and technology organizations in the public  sector have increasingly been called upon to offer research and development, consultancy and other services to  the private sector. Strong links are therefore being forged between manufacturing industries and research and  development institutions, whose services are sought to identify viable projects and relevant technologies and  skills. Sri Lanka is making a conscious effort in linking with international networks to set up data bases needed  for the purpose. We are conscious of the role which UNESCO plays in this field and endorse the activities  proposed in the Programme and Budget for 1992-1993. More will be said by my delegation in the relevant  programme commission.
14.18 My delegation also supports the major programme areas relating to education with special reference to  basic education and technical and vocational education. Sri Lanka has achieved a relatively higb rate of  participation in basic education (primary and junior secondary cycles of general education). Our endeavour is to  universalize 11 years of education by harnessing both the formal and non-formal systems and by introducing  regulations in conformity with the existing law to make attendance either at formal or non-formal educational  institutions compulsory for both girls and boys between the ages of five and sixteen. We feel confident that we  can reach our goal of universal secondary education within a few years - definitely before the end of the present  century. Action is being taken to establish eight university colleges, each affiliated to an existing university. An  important policy which 1s being implemented is to take science and technology to rural areas through schools as  well as radio and television. Sri Lanka will submit in due course appropriate Participation Programme requests  for upgrading science and technology libraries and the development of video materials for science and  technology education.
14.19 Sri Lanka's approach as regards UNESCO's activities in communication has been consistent in that we  have always advocated an abiding commitment to the free flow of ideas by word and image, a fundamental duty  assigned to UNESCO by its Constitution. President Premadasa, in a recent address to the 'All Party Conference  on the proper functioning of democracy’, emphasized that independence was not only freedom from  government control but also freedom from monopolistic control by a "privileged few'. Following this policy, the  government is taking steps to broad base the ownership through people-ization of the media with the  participation of working journalists and other employees. This principle will be simultaneously applied to the  government-owned Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd., Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, Sri Lanka  Broadcasting Corporation and the Independent Television Network. The Independent Television Network has  already been converted to a private company.
14.20 I may mention here that even in times of internal strife and disorder we have allowed both national  and international media to have unrestricted access to all sources of information. But, while recognizing this  freedom of access to information, we also underscore that such a right to freedom entails an inherent  responsibility to hold facts as immutable and sacred. Just as media people should have unlimited access to  information, the general public, especially the rural masses who are too poor to buy radios, televisions,  newspapers or books, should also have access to information for their social, cultural and economic  development. With this in view we are improving the studio facilities at our broadcasting station to provide a  better service and we are also seeking UNESCO's assistance to expand the Community Radio, which has  proved quite successful in the Mahaweli region, to other parts of our country for the benefit of the poor.
14.21 We express our appreciation of the contribution which the International Programme for the  Development of Communication has made to Sri Lanka. We support its activities and urge the better placed  Member States to give it their generous aid in both money and kind.
14.22 Mr President, friends, may I take this opportunity to convey the gratitude of H.E. the President, the  Government and the people of Sri Lanka to all Member States which have made significant contributions to our  national development through UNESCO. We are grateful to Japan for both the contribution made to the  restoration of the Malwatte monastic complex in Kandy and the active consideration that is being given to  according similar aid for the restoration of the parallel monastic establishment of Asgiriya. We also appreciate  the assistance of China for the restoration of the Abhayagiri Dagaba. Similarly, we are very thankful to the  Republic of Korea for the generous assistance given for the development of the computer centre of the  University of Colombo. I have already referred to the Government of France whose continuing co-operation in  the preservation of our cultural heritage is symbolized by the exhibition: "The Golden Age of Sri Lankan  Buddhist and Hindu Bronzes'.
14.23 Mr Director-General, we are most indebted to you for the many kindnesses you have shown Sri Lanka.  We congratulate you on another most eventful and fruitful biennium as the helmsman of this most important  organization of the United Nations system and look forward to long years of service to the international  community.
14.24 Mr President, distinguished colleagues and friends, let me conclude by calling upon you to join Sri  Lanka in celebrating during the coming biennium an event not only of unparalleled national significance for  Sri Lanka but also of international importance in view of its impact on the expansion of Buddhism in the world  today. I refer to the introduction of Buddhism to Sri Lanka in 307 BC by Thera Mahinda, the son of the great  Indian emperor Asoka. The 2,300th anniversary of this event falls in June 1993. During these 23 centuries,  Buddhism has played an outstanding role in promoting Indo-Sri Lankan co-operation in all fields of education,  science and technology, religion and philosophy, art and literature. Since the twelfth century, Sri Lanka has  been the veritable Buddhist metropolis for South and South-East Asia. The contribution which Sri Lanka has  made to the propagation of Buddhism as a living religion and way of life as well as to the promotion of the  diverse domains of Buddhist studies in the modern world is too well known and widely recognized to need  further elaboration. Suffice it to say that this magnificent process of involving the humanity in a humane  pursuit began with the historic meeting of the royal princely missionary from India and King Devanampiyatissa  of Sri Lanka. We urge all nations of the world to recognize the spiritual and cultural significance of this  memorable event,
14.25 It is our firm conviction that in the new world which is evolving with the cessation of the Cold War  and the progress of democracy, UNESCO has a vital role to play as an harbinger of peace and security,  development and environment protection and above all the propagation of values and norms which distinguish  humanity from the rest. May all be happy and content: Sabbe satta bhavantu sukhitatta. Thank you.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the head of the delegation of Sri Lanka. As you know, Prince Talal is due to arrive at 12.30 p.m.  and we shall therefore suspend this plenary meeting for five minutes. Delegates are requested to remain in the  room. Following Prince Talal's visit the plenary meeting will resume the general policy debate. The meeting is  suspended.  (La séance est suspendue à 12.20 et reprise à 13 heures)
142   (M. Ogot reprend la présidence)  COMMUNICATION DU PRESIDENT CONCERNANT LA VISITE DE S.A.R. LE PRINCE TALAL BIN  ABDUL AZIZ AL-SAUD (PRESIDENT DU PROGRAMME DU GOLFE ARABE POUR LES  ORGANISATIONS DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES NATIONS UNIES)  COMMUNICATION BY THE PRESIDENT CONCERNING THE VISIT OF H.R.H. PRINCE TALAL BIN  ABDUL AZIZ AL-SAUD (PRESIDENT OF THE ARAB GULF PROGRAMME FOR THE UNITED  NATIONS DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS)  COMUNICACION DEL PRESIDENTE ACERCA DE LA VISITA DE S.A.R. EL PRINCIPE TALAL BIN  ABDUL AZIZ AL-SAUD (PRESIDENTE DEL PROGRAMA DEL GOLFO ARABE PARA LAS  ORGANIZACIONES DE DESARROLLO DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS)  COOBILMEHHE MPEJICE/LATENS OTHOCUTEJIILHO BH3HTA E.K.B. MPHHIA TAJIAJI BUH  AbJ[YITA3H3A ANb-CAYTA (MPEICE/ATENS TTPOTPAMMbI CTPAH TIEPCHUJICKOTI'O 3AJIMBA
16.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your  patience.
16.2 This is very inconvenient, but we are informed that because of the four demonstrations taking place in  Paris at the moment, the car bringing Prince Talal has been held up, and there is no likelihood that he will be  with us before 3 o'clock. So, as much as we would like to continue, I think it would be unfair to keep you  waiting and I shall therefore adjourn the meeting until 3 o'clock. Thank you and I am very sorry for this.  La séance est levée à 13 h.05  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.05  BaceHaHHe 3akpbisaercs B 13.05  EIT sas PIN delai pi It PEN JOVS  ST LIM 04k