Première séance plénière
15 octobre 1991, à 10 h.05  Président : M. ANWAR IBRAHIM (Malaisie)  First plenary meeting
19914F 0 ASH, 106054  FOF RRR D DRE CHAR )   OUVERTURE DE LA SESSION PAR LE CHEF DE LA DELEGATION DE MALAISIE, PRESIDENT  PROVISOIRE  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF MALAYSIA, TEMPORARY  PRESIDENT  APERTURA DE LA REUNION POR EL JEFE DE LA DELEGACION DE MALASIA, PRESIDENTE  PROVISIONAL  OTKPbITHE CECCHH TIIABOH IEJET AIHH MAIAH3HH, BPEMEHHBIM IIPEJICE/[ATEJIEM
35541 paths eed) Gut SNJ shy adh cd gd] ISI  EER, DRATAEAARB TRE
1.1 Mr Anwar IBRAHIM (Malaysia), Temporary President:  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, - distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, by virtue of Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, I have the  honour and privilege of presiding at the opening of the present twenty-sixth session. In my capacity as  Temporary President, I now declare open the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 May I extend a most cordial welcome to all attending this session: heads of delegation, delegates,  representatives, observers from non-Member States, liberation movements and international governmental and  non-governmental organizations, journalists and representatives of the media.
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, before turning to the main tasks with which we have to deal at this session, I  wish to pay tribute to the memory of personalities deceased since the twenty-fifth session: Mr Ahmed Abdallah  Abderamane, President of Comoros, Mr Rene Muawad, President of Lebanon, Professor Sjarif Thajeb of  Indonesia, former member of the Executive Board, Ms Dolores Macalintal of the Philippines, Mr Amadou  Hampâte Bi of Mali, former member of the Board, Mr Gardner Davies, former member of the Board, and our  dear and close friend Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, former President of the General Conference.
1.4 Let us also pay tribute on this occasion to the many others who have contributed to furthering the  ideals of UNESCO, and, in particular, to those who have given up their lives in the defence of peace.
1.5 I now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute's silence in their memory.  (The Conference observes one minute's silence)
1.6 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, during the last session of the General Conference of UNESCO we  witnessed the cataclysmic events in Eastern Europe and hailed the beginning of an irreversible trend in the  geopolitical development of the region and the world. Lest we succumb to the ecstasy and euphoria surrounding  those events, this intellectual forum needs to be reminded of our priorities. We must separate political  convulsions in a spatio-historical sense and man's continuing struggle as reflected in UNESCO's civilizational  mission expounded by Archibald MacLeish, building ‘the defences of peace in the minds of men’. To  reinvigorate this idea, we would need to interpret recent events not merely in a particular political or  intellectual experience but as a continuing struggle against repressive order and the irrationality of  revolutionary dialectics. It is therefore a struggle of human conscience, of the ‘mind’ and not of the ‘might’ of  man.
1.7 Indeed, the collapse of the old order has altered the post-war political landscape. And undoubtedly  there is a reassuring development towards peace, the reduction of the arms race and avoidance of a nuclear  disaster. But it should not be allowed to evolve into a new hegemony generating protagonistic conflicts between  the industrial rich and the developing poor. Symptomatic somewhat of this attitude of mind is the view  expressed by Francis Fukuyama when he described the emergence of the new order as a triumph of 'western  liberal democracy’ and even as ‘an end of history’. This somewhat echoes Tocqueville's dictum: ‘une feuille  blanche’, or 'a blank page’ in an entirely new history.
1.8 This premise unfortunately ignores the realism of the diversity of cultures. It thus seems to be a  renewed attempt to legitimize a particular cultural dominance. But more pronounced is the failure to recognize  the moral dynamics that has been operating in the continuum; the incessant value crisis described by the  fourteenth-century historian Ibn Khaldun as the ‘cyclical’ motion of human history.
1.9 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, despite major strides in economic and technological achievements,  our perennial problems of illiteracy, hunger, poverty, disease and environmental degradation, coupled with civil  strife and suppression of fundamental liberties, remain unchanged.
1.10 Like the European ‘myth of 1992", our preoccupation with the cessation of the Cold War should not  blind us to the challenges of the future. In shaping the new character of the global matrix, certain fundamental  questions need to be pondered. What relevance has this new world order to the hundreds of millions living in  abject poverty? What charity has the new world order to those children dying of hunger and malnutrition? Of  what relevance are freedom and democracy to the nearly one fifth of the world's population who are haunted by  the scourge of illiteracy? Is the new order sensitive to the perplexing debt burden and unjust trade practices that  are crippling the economies of the developing world? Do we have the will to reverse the process of  militarization in which billions of dollars were spent on arms build-up to promote transnational economic and  ecological security? The old order was created not through genuine universal participation, but through the  dictates and dominance of powerful nations.
1.11 It was the order that promoted clientelism, fear, tension and division in the international system. It  divided humanity into different worlds, the First, the Second and the Third Worlds. All this is a relic of the old  civilizational thinking when powerful nations developed ethnocentric notions about their own cultures.  Universalism from that point of view became a mere rhetorical slogan, a fiction rather than a reality. Respect  for pluralism was a pretence rather than a real commitment.
1.12 UNESCO's idcal as the universal voice of human conscience is indeed more relevant and pronounced.  What we need is an intellectual and cultural renaissance and the promotion of a global cultural consciousness.  UNESCO ought to concentrate on the genesis of a new culture of peace, freedom and justice. The words of  Thomas Jefferson are still alive: I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against tyranny upon the  mind of man’.
1.13 UNESCO, as an intellectual forum, must have the moral courage to be the voice of the conscience of  humanity. This moral imperative should be manifested in a coherent and consistent manner when discussing  democracy, whether in Moscow or Haiti; when discoursing on freedom, whether in the Baltic countries,  Palestine, South Africa or Afghanistan; and when expressing our anxiety over Dubrovnik or proscribing the  wanton destruction of Mesopotamian treasures.
1.14 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, contemporary experiences point to the inevitability of moral and  cthical criteria in establishing a just world order. We have observed the Western colonial scramble and  plundering of Africa in the nineteenth century, and the near abandonment of Africa in our own times. We  notice the rising tide of racism, ethnocentrism and religious fanaticism, even in the so-called fully matured  democratic societies. If our social moroseness culminates in the defeat of man as a moral being, then history  will inherit nothing beyond disasters and defeats.
1.15 We do recognize the inconsistencies and limitations even of the developing world. The rampant  corruption and moral decadence perpetuated by dynastic and autocratic tendencies have frustrated attempts  towards democracy and reforms in alleviating the plight of the poor and enhancing the quality of education.  Often, criticism of the rich industrialized countries is used to hide their own inadequacies or even excesses.  However, those who genuinely attempt to move their societies towards freedom and democracy are hampered  by mounting debt burdens and protectionism. Certain problems requiring genuine solutions are ignored, while  new strategic alliances are established at the expense of the developing world.
1.16 UNESCO, as the universal voice of the human conscience, should ensure that the voice of the rich and  powerful, and the plea of the poor and the small have an equal reception, and that multilateralism forms the  basis of the new order.
1.17 If we proclaim, in the governance of our citizenry, Voltaire's commitment: 'T disapprove of what you  say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it," how then can we deny it in the context of the governance  of the world? Yet there are more than a handful in this very assembly who bear the scars or have the fear of  saying what others do not wish to hear.
1.18 We all despise totalitarianism and abhor dictatorship. What is unacceptable within the nation-state  must surely be intolerable within the community of nations. We must give meaning to democracy and not   scrmonize about it as a monolithic ideal. That is why the Malaysian Prime Minister was prompted to call for a  restructuring of the United Nations. If we genuinely believe in democracy, let us ensure that the practice of true  democracy begins in the international forum - the United Nations and its agencies!
1.19 This brings us, ladies and gentlemen, to the major issues addressed at the last UNESCO General  Conference: universality and the need for reform. There is no greater relevance to the principle of universality  than the attempt to promote global cultural consciousness, a global state of mind which can accept diversity or  pluralism as a common paradigm. Its cultural message and its operation have to be transparent and visible to  all, capable of transcending particularized or regional interests.
1.20 — But the greatest challenge that confronts UNESCO involves its capacity to reform and revitalize itself.  lt is not that UNESCO lacks vision; but in order for this vision to become a reality, to be pragmatic, it has to be  supported by an organizational culture that is capable of sustaining and nurturing it. Human ideals cannot  remain perpetually mere subjects of rhetorical dialogue and debate. That it is imperative to find a new focus for  the terms of conduct of the problématique, of the international system and to fill the vacuum in its cultural  forum is reiterated in the latest Club of Rome report: The First Global Revolution. Respect for excellence in  intellectual leadership; the avoidance of bureaucratic encumbrances; and the need for decentralization are still  the burning issues for UNESCO in a changing environment. And there should be no digression from our  central task and UNESCO's major field of competence: education for all. In our efforts to revitalize UNESCO's  mission, we must place the highest priority on education.
1.21 In the current political and ideological vacuum, UNESCO is in a unique position to spearhead a global  intellectual revolution. If we, the Member States of the Organization can ensure that its mission remains true to  the spirit of its founding fathers; that it retains its role as a global intellectual forum; that it becomes the  messenger of peace and enlightenment in the world; only then shall this world body become the true voice of  human conscience. Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
1.22 Inow give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, H.E. Mr Yahya Aliyu.  ALLOCUTION DU PRESIDENT DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  DISCURSO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbICTYIDIEHHE INPEJCEJATENH UCTTIOJIHUTEIILHOT'O COBETA  iii Gulakl Gut; LAS  RE FR EE
2.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as Chairman of the Executive Board it is a great privilege to extend on its  behalf a very warm welcome to the delegations of the Member States and Associate Members taking part in this  twenty-sixth session of the General Conference. I also extend a cordial welcome to observers from those States  which are not yet members of UNESCO, as well as to the representatives of the various organizations of the  United Nations system and of intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.
2.2 Mr President, the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference under your distinguished guidance  closed at a critical historical moment for many countries. Since then the world has changed at an extremely  rapid rate, creating new horizons as well as many changes .in the different continents. This complete process  has nevertheless brought forward the need for the enhancement of multilateral co-operation and in particular of  the United Nations system as a whole. Needless to say, it is up to us to contribute to that enhancement in the  spheres of competence of UNESCO, bringing forward new bold initiatives for furthering peace and  understanding.
2.3 During these last two years, UNESCO has faced new challenges and new opportunities. To assume  fully its role in a renewed international community, the Organization must gear itself to a new dynamic.  Streamlining its action and reforming its methods of work, bringing forward clearly defined perspectives in a  world where many still lack access to even the most basic elements of education, science, culture and  communication. Development remains the key word, but for it to become a tangible reality, many efforts remain   to be made, in a context where aspirations rapidly change and while the diversity of cultures reflects the  existence of deep-rooted values which have been underestimated by the strategies of development for too long.  Therefore, the opportunity which lies before us must not be missed: UNESCO must be one of the essential  elements of the present drive towards a reinvigorated multilateral co-operation, and needless to say, the  restoration of its universality in every sense must be one of our priorities.
2.4 During the last two years, the Executive Board has fully complied with the mandate given to it by the  General Conference in a spirit of consensus, tackling not only the many day-to-day problems facing the  Organization but also proposing new perspectives in the interest of international intellectual co-operation. The  Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 was thoroughly examined by the Board and the consensual  recommendations of the Board pertaining to it will doubtless contribute to the success of this Conference. May 1  add that the recommendations by the Board to the Nominations Committee will allow distinguished and highly  competent personalities to preside over the different organs of the Conference in a spirit of co-operation and  common purpose. In the fulfilment of its tasks, the Board has been constantly helped by the Secretariat under  the leadership of the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, whose efforts for reform and renewal have always  met with the co-operation of the Executive Board, which I have had the honour to chair during the last two  years.
2.5 Distinguished delegates, it is an honour for me to welcome you to the twenty-sixth session of the  General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which will be a  success through your contributions, your dedication and commitment to the high ideals that this Organization  represents. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. It now gives me great pleasure to invite the Director-  General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, to give his address.  ALLOCUTION DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  DISCURSO DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  BbICTYILIEHHE TEHEPAJIBHOI'O HPEKTOPA  sled oul) AUS  TS HE
4.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs,  il y a exactement quarante-cinq années prenaient place, au coeur de la Sorbonne, les vingt délégations  constituant la première Conférence générale de l'UNESCO. La vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale  que nous avons l'honneur d'ouvrir aujourd'hui est bien davantage qu'une occasion nouvelle de nous rassembler :  elle est une seconde naissance.
4.2 En effet, Mesdames et Messieurs, l'UNESCO était née de la guerre, d'une guerre totale s'ouvrant sur la  violence, se prolongeant dans le génocide et s'achevant dans un nuage nucléaire qui n'allait plus se dissiper. Et  l'UNESCO n'a connu, depuis cette première Conférence générale, que la guerre, certes une guerre d'une autre  nature, la guerre froide, issue de la fracture de la communauté des nations en blocs idéologiques opposés, qui se  sont ainsi affrontés sans discontinuer jusqu'aux années 90 et ont rendu difficile le fonctionnement des  institutions de coopération internationale qui avaient été définies à Bretton-Woods, à San Francisco et à  Londres.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(4.3) And yet, Mr President, this critical situation has not prevented our Organization, in the 45 years of its  existence, from asserting itself, through its work and achievements, as an irreplaceable forum for intellectual  reflection, investigation and dialogue, as a necessary instrument for the development of education, culture,  science and communication in the world, as a platform for discussion and consultation, and as a vital bastion of  peace in the minds of men.
(4.4) And, today, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time since 1946, a General Conference is being held in a  climate of freedom and hope, heralding a new phase in which Member States, united in their commitment to  certain common principles, in their single-minded acceptance of certain shared values and dedication to certain  common goals, are engaged in rebuilding UNESCO as a corner-stone of the rebirth of the United Nations system,  as an edifice equipped to respond to the major challenges with which the twenty-first century is already  confronting us.
4.5) Central the new edifice must be the forceful, determined resolve to establish the ethical principle at the  very heart of all thinking and action. This is why I am convinced that UNESCO's major task today is to incite men  and women, countries and peoples to subscribe to a moral contract for our world society. Only the Member States,  which are UNESCO, have the legitimacy and capacity to enter into this contract, one which reconciles and binds  human beings with the world around them, development with solidarity, commercial exchanges with ethical  behaviour, and the efficiency and competitiveness of individuals and groups with community values.
(4.6) The reductions in the arsenals of tactical and strategic nuclear weapons of the two major blocs, the  establishment of mechanisms for addressing jointly problems of security and co-operation, the peaceful settlement  of many regional and local conflicts under the auspices of the United Nations, the reunification of divided  countries - Germany in the North, Yemen in the South - the peaceful transition to democracy in many countries of  Mediterranean, Central and Eastern Europe, in Latin America, Asia and Africa, are proof that today, mainly as a  result of the abatement of ideological divisions between States and their desire for concord, peace and progress  have become realistic and viable goals.
4.7) This new situation should enable us to use the dividends of peace as a means of solving the most urgent  and immediate problems facing our societies. More balanced, harmonious world economic growth and all-round  human development should help to raise living standards in the developing countries and avert or reduce  migration to countries which although they have greater economic resources are still - we must admit -  inadequately equipped for rewarding coexistence in multicultural societies.
(4.8) It should be possible to use these peace dividends to heal that gaping wound, to repair that great rent in  what is the most precious and vulnerable fabric of peoples, their youth, by using all necessary scientific and  financial resources to an end to the collective disgrace of drug trafficking and to launch an ambitious, sustained,  large-scale programme to help rehabilitate drug addicts.
(4.9) But we should not allow this more encouraging situation to go to our heads. It is as if, with the end of  the Cold War, the tide had receded and exposed conflicts, obstacles and problems which had been overshadowed,  repressed or covered up by antagonisms between States, and autocracies within them, but which are now making  a vigorous and vengeful comeback. Geopolitics is an especially dangerous area in this respect. Community  assertiveness, State frontiers, minority rights, ethnic rivalry, racial prejudice, various forms of fundamentalism,  xenophobia and intolerance have always dogged the steps of humankind. Now they are erupting into our lives  with renewed violence, posing a radical threat to our ability to live together. Solutions to these problems can only  be found in a world whose structures are based on principles and values.
(4.10) Democracy, freedom and human rights, which have always been and continue to be the principal  objectives of UNESCO, have now become basic ingredients of incontrovertible policy for the whole world.  Democracy is no longer just a way of organizing the political life of a community; it has become a philosophy of  life, a Weltanschauung, not just an instrument, but a teleological condition. In other words, democracy as a  system of rules (rules of the political game) cannot be built on thin air but must be erected on a foundation of  principles and moral values. The theory and practice of democracy are inseparable from ethics. One of the most  important elements of the heritage which our battered but triumphant twentieth century, with its mistakes and its
10   success stories, its heroism and its turpitude, will hand on in the year 2001 is the message that democracy without  moral fibre is either a fool's paradise or a farce.
(4.11) The key to democracy as an ethical principle is to ensure that individuals achieve political fulfilment as  citizens, the subjects par excellence of community life, that each man and each woman is the protagonist as well  as the beneficiary of action taken in conjunction with others. One can only achieve political maturity within and  with the wider community. Democracy can only be established by and with the help of all: freedom,  responsibility, solidarity, the individual and the community are all inextricably interwoven threads of the same  cloth.
(4.12) Citizenship, however, is learned by initiation into the fundamentals of democracy and by putting them to  use. Now that national defence has begun to demand fewer resources than before, there are grounds for hope that  enough resources will be available for the defence of individuals, enabling them at long last to exploit their full  potential. And this in fact can only be brought about by strengthening the processes of training. The most recent  great military conflict demonstrated not only that military power is conferred by mastery of the latest advances in  technology but also that there is no point in possessing costly arsenals without the knowledge required to use  them.
(4.13) Mr President, distinguished ministers and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO must lead reform  of the content of education at all levels so as to ensure that the proper behaviour patterns for relationships with  other individuals, other groups and the ecological environment evolve and take firm root in every woman and in  every man: this requires a form of education that is suitable for all, the knowledge of theoretical principles and  the skills required to use the techniques and applications that would reduce the present glaring discrepancies  between different individuals’ and different countries’ access to natural and intellectual resources and, with the  new cducation, would attenuate the excessive differences and imbalances that threaten our common future.
(4.14) Education is the only factor capable of containing the excessive differences and imbalances which are  also present in population growth. This gap will be reduced only when every individual achieves full control over  his or her own future and when development, which by its very nature is indivisible, is no longer divided, as  happens, for example, when provisions from the outside world which are intended for immunization and adequate  nutrition are not accompanied by the concomitant training that would make it possible to use them properly and  give them their full significance. The purpose of such training is to attempt to correct present imbalances and to  do as much as possible to narrow the current gap between the few who have everything and the many who have  virtually nothing.
(4.15) The present situation can be considered only from a global perspective. The world today, which is so  various and so complex, is a single entity or it is nothing. There are no frontiers as far as the pollution of our  water and our atmosphere are concerned; there are no territorial limits when it comes to pandemics or news.  There are no longer any high walls protecting hidden and inaccessible areas. The world is now a glasshouse  which requires good-neighbourliness, mutual knowledge, understanding and tolerance. However, this  globalization should not lead us to postulate, as may happen at any time, a world State. Why not? On the one  hand, because this worldwide dimension of statehood is already represented and operating by and through the  United Nations system, a democratic body to which all States belong and which is therefore both multiple and  diverse; and, on the other, because the age in which we are living, which is one of civil societies, points us  towards a world civil society for which this constellation of States is simultaneously both the framework and the  foundation.
(4.16) Such a world society requires not only social actors but also approaches that are on a world scale. We  already have them in the economic field, with large multinational corporations and their operational networks, but  there is a tragic lack of them in other fields and social sectors, such as education and science. This does not  mean - needless to say - replacing unproductive fragmentation by sterile uniformity. But it means creating  networks of universities, research institutes and training centres which, while retaining their distinctive character  and differences, form a common structure with great synergetic power. The essential feature of world society is  precisely its capacity to preserve social and cultural diversity, which is even more valuable than biological  diversity, while continuing to use its resources as effectively as possible.
(4.17) World society can be consolidated and can prosper only if - and I would stress this once again - only if  it is based on moral values that are no longer a superfluous luxury or a disturbing prejudice, but a strict  requirement for survival, an essential condition for progress. I should like to give just two examples. A vast  majority of contemporary scientists agree that ethics and research are two sides of the same coin and that there  can be no science without conscience. Biology and medicine are perhaps the scientific disciplines in which this  link appears most clearly. Let us consider for a moment all the medical advances affecting the human body:  transplants and grafts, medically assisted reproduction, human testing of new drugs, the sale of organs, and  genetic engineering, which not only make us question the status of the individual, and reveal our total lack of  legislation and legal precedent in this sphere, but also bring us face to face with ethical principles. The great
11   debates on these subjects and the establishment of national committees on bioethics are proof that we are facing a  question of crucial importance.
(4.18) However, even more is at stake. The kind of economy that operates solely on the basis of productivity  and the calculation of results, where everything is judged in terms of competitiveness and profits, is beginning to  realize the urgent need to introduce principles and standards of behaviour into its frame of reference, since if we  wish to reduce conflicts, which could prove devastating, between large corporations, keep such conflicts within  reasonable limits for the competitors themselves and make them bearable for the community, the ROI-ethos  (return on investment) needs to be accompanied by a moral code governing the way corporations operate. In this  context, it is very significant that they are beginning to talk in the business world of the need for a market ethic  and a business morality.  (The Director-General continued in English)
4.19 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Conference represents a turning-point, a crucial moment in  the life of the Organization. This is reflected in the important resolutions submitted by various countries  proposing reforms of the governing bodies of UNESCO, the establishment of advisory groups, the creation of  international programmes for the human and social sciences and for technical and vocational training,  provision for the permanent monitoring of administration and management. All these initiatives are  encouraging signs of the involvement of Member States in the life of the Organization. It augurs well for  further progress by UNESCO in the fulfilment of its mission.
420 — The draft resolution concerning the reform of UNESCO's governing bodies, unanimously supported by  all the regional groups, considers that UNESCO, as an intellectual organization, is today ‘more relevant and  indispensable’ than ever, Yes, today more than ever the aims of our Constitution represent vital goals. The  Second World War was, to quote the words of UNESCO's Constitution, 'made possible by the denial of the  democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation, in their place,  through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and races’, and the Preamble to our  Constitution, which must be recalled in these moments of rebirth, continues as follows: ‘the wide diffusion of  culture, and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man  and constitute a sacred duty which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern; ... a  peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be a peace  which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace  must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind’.
421 Such were the convictions that, in April 1945, led Senator Fulbright and other members of the United  States Congress to present a first draft resolution - a text I was very moved to read the day before yesterday in  Washington, when Senator Fulbright offered UNESCO his personal archives on the very beginning of this  Organization - which stated, 'it is essential to collaborate with other nations to promote educational  advancement and at the same time to direct education towards the achievement of mutual understanding among  the nations’. Here, at this new turning-point, we realize that we must renew - in the light of past experience and  present opportunities - our faith in shaping a better future.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(4.22) Mr President, an African, a great poet and statesman, Léopold Sédar Senghor, wrote in his "Chants  d'ombres’; Tt is time to set out, to face the anxiety of stations; I thirst after new places and fresh waters’. Yes,  indeed, it is time to move on to fresh woods and pastures new; it is time to think again, centring the aims of  development on human beings and resolutely undertaking joint action with clear roles for all the governmental  and non-governmental bodies concerned; it is time for a complete overhaul of all countries’ education systems and  their content so as to ensure that they foster attitudes of peaceful coexistence and tolerance and, at the same time,  provide the necessary knowledge, skills and rules of behaviour to guarantee protection of the environment; it is  time to promote the full exercise of human rights and their concomitant duties everywhere; it is time to speed the  process of disarmament so that the dividends of peace can lead to stronger democracies and larger investments in  health, nutrition, justice and education; it is time to reform economic management at the international level so as  to facilitate the just pricing of raw materials, particularly in the least developed countries; it is time to act on the  production and consumption of energy and on the emission of carbon dioxide and other gases which cause the  greenhouse effect; it is time to give renewed attention to the intellectual heritage of humanity, the fund of  knowledge, traditions, values and art forms; it is time to cut down on the number of diagnoses and reports and  increase the number of instruments for decision-making and the prescription of proper treatment; it is time for us  to stop being an audience and to become actors; it is time to give all the world's children - especially those who  are displaced, disabled, forced into child labour, living on the streets, the poorest and most marginalized - the  basic necessities of life and the education that they need; it is time to strengthen scientific research; it is time to  reduce overconsumption in the wealthiest countries; it is time to infuse fresh energy into all the voluntary  movements for international solidarity, for the environment and for intellectual co-operation; it is time to find a  solution to the just aspirations of the Palestinian people without further delay; it is also time to re-examine and  correct conceptual definitions and equivalents which are devoid of rigour and meaning, stereotypes which label  national identities as racist or reactionary; it is time to build bridges between nations, countries and peoples so  that all cultures, without exception, can express themselves; it is time for the active and the resolute to make their  presence felt and to construct the defences of peace in the minds of all the inhabitants of the earth.
(4.23) Ladies and gentlemen, these are, I think, some of the concrete obligations implicit in the moral contract  that world society requires and is demanding today. Through education, science and culture, UNESCO could  contribute decisively to its establishment. Thank you very much.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the  meeting will be suspended for a few minutes to enable us to receive and welcome President Frangois  Mitterrand. Because the adjournment is for a few minutes only, delegates are requested not to leave the hall.  We shall resume shortly after the arrival of President Mitterrand.
5.2 The meeting is suspended.  (The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
13   VISITE DE S. EXC. M. FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE  VISIT BY H.E. MR FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR. FRANCOIS MITTERRAND, PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA FRANCESA  BH3HT ETO TPEBOCXO/INTEJILCTBA I''HA $PAHCYA MHTTEPAHA,  ITIPEBH/IEHTA PPAHIY3CKOH PECITYBJIMKHA  Lucas ill Le y sgandl puts; 1G) Aa Vpn ld Gud J Lala 3,5  RET EME BER AR I - FRE M TFUE)  (S. Exc. M. François Mitterrand prend place à la tribune)
6. The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me indeed great pleasure and honour to welcome President  François Mitterrand to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization's twenty-sixth  General Conference. Your presence here, Mr President, is a testimony to your personal support and France's  continued commitment to the vision and ideals of UNESCO and to the principle of multiculturalism. Sir, you  are the leader of a great country, France, with a profound heritage. The spirit of liberty, egality, fraternity  continues to inspire generation after generation. That is precisely why I am right here this morning to echo the  sentiments of delegates to the General Conference that we shall continue to look forward to your intellectual  guidance, to France's continued support of UNESCO. As a depository of intellectual currents and cultural  heritage, France has always been a vital element in innovative ideas and ideals to enrich and uplift education,  science and culture. I now invite the Chairman of the Executive Board, H.E. Mr Yahya Aliyu, to take the floor  to welcome you, Mr President.
7.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Your Excellency Mr François Mitterrand, President of the French Republic, Mr President of the  General Conference, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen; Mr President, in my  capacity as Chairman of the Executive Board of UNESCO, it is a great honour for me to welcome you to this  twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.
7.2 Indeed, since its inception, the ideals of UNESCO have also been those of France, our host country,  and your personal dedication to the realization of those ideals has been an inspiration for us all.
7.3 In the last few years, during which so many critical issues have confronted the international  community, you have striven to bring forward positive and lasting solutions within the perspective of  international co-operation, and with a view to enhancing it.
7,4 In the spheres of competence of UNESCO, the contribution of France has always been of key  importance to the Organization, since it provides not only new ideas and future-oriented proposals, but also a  steadfast and concrete contribution to the materialization of those ideas and proposals. May I add that the  timeliness of many of the initiatives of France has greatly contributed to the clarification of many important  issues, and this in turn has allowed us, through dialogue and consensus, to engage in programmes and projects  that permit UNESCO to expand its activities in very many different countries.
7,5 We are sure that France, and you personally, Mr President, will contribute again during this twenty-  sixth session of the General Conference, to the further enhancement of UNESCO as the single organization of  the United Nations system dedicated to intellectual co-operation. Indeed, as the world moves into a new phase  of international co-operation, many problems of the past remain, in all their acuteness. As we strive to construct  the new, we must not forget that it must be based on the solid foundations of all the good work already  achieved. As we embark on this important task, we are gratified to welcome to our midst a decision-maker of  the immense stature of the President of the French Republic. Mr President, you are most welcome!
8. The PRESIDENT:  I now call on the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza.
9.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président de la République française, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, personnalités  scientifiques et culturelles, entrepreneurs qui honorez de votre présence ce moment important de la vie de  l'Organisation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, Monsieur le Président, c'est
14   vraiment un très grand honneur pour l'UNESCO que de recevoir pour le quarante-cinquième anniversaire de la  première réunion de la Conférence générale de notre Organisation, le Président de la France, pays hôte de  l'UNESCO depuis sa création.
92 Votre présence, Monsieur le Président de la République, prend toute sa signification à un moment  crucial pour l'avenir de l'humanité et pour la part que le système des Nations Unies - et en particulier  l'UNESCO - y prendra.
9.3 Merci, Monsieur le Président, pour vos initiatives en faveur de la paix et du désarmement. La France  a, sous votre présidence, fait progresser de façon significative la coopération en faveur du développement, tout  comme elle oeuvre sans répit en faveur des droits de l'homme et des libertés individuelles.
9.4 Ce que vous allez nous dire, Monsieur le Président, va éclairer nos délibérations des prochains jours et  contribuera ainsi à l'élaboration d'une vision globale de l'avenir. Cette vision devient indispensable pour mieux  appréhender un monde marqué par la diversité et les déséquilibres mais qui, dans le même temps, voit ces  déséquilibres devenir l'affaire de tous, par cette globalisation immédiate - je dirais presque foudroyante - à  l'échelle de la planète, des problèmes qu'ils génèrent. Et c'est parce que le monde se réunifie après s'être si  longtemps fragmenté, divisé, que la coopération internationale, sous sa forme multilatérale, retrouve sa  signification profonde. Réorganiser le concert des nations, approfondir le dialogue, notamment culturel, entre  les peuples : voilà les perspectives qui s'ouvrent à nous ! En vous écoutant, Monsieur le Président, je sais que  nous entendrons la voix singulière, d'une résonance exceptionnelle, qui est la vôtre. Je vous remercie.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. Now, on behalf of the General Conference, I have the pleasure and  honour to call on President Mitterrand of France.
11.1 M. MITTERRAND (Président de la République française) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, en cet instant, se  retrace dans ma mémoire l'histoire de l'UNESCO, depuis qu'après la première guerre mondiale naquit la  Commission de coopération intellectuelle internationale, qui ne prit une forme institutionnelle qu'en 1945.
1945 : songeons à ce qu'était le monde à cette époque. La guerre la plus meurtrière de l'histoire venait de  s'achever. C'était le temps alors de toutes les ambitions. Les bases d'une Organisation des Nations Unies ont été  jetées et l'on songe aujourd'hui - on n'y pensait sans doute pas naguère - à l'interrogation de Paul Valéry à  l'intention de Salvador de Madariaga : que serait une société des nations sans une société des esprits ? En effet,  quelle espérance, Mesdames et Messieurs : un lieu où prendraient forme l'idée d'un droit à la culture, ainsi que  des projets internationaux d'échanges et de coopération entre les grandes civilisations !
11.2 Eh bien, ce lieu, il est ici et vous vous rassemblez pour justifier l'ambitieuse entreprise. Certes, au  dialogue ouvert entre femmes et hommes de bonne volonté, s'est trop souvent substituée depuis lors ce qu'on  appelle la langue de bois, de ceux qui parlent sur ordre ou au nom d'un ordre. Eh bien, malgré tout, quarante-  six ans après, même si des crises douloureuses éclatent encore à travers le monde, les hommes et les Etats  réapprennent à se parler. En deux ans, des murs se sont effondrés, des prisons ouvertes, des esprits libérés,  tandis que resurgissent en même temps des nationalismes anciens, souvent oubliés, des antagonismes  nouveaux, des fanatismes enfouis, des racismes qu'on avait cru disparus.
11.3 Face à ces contradictions, seuls la réconciliation des hommes par le respect de l'autre et le partage de la  pensée sauront nous préserver du pire. Je pense qu'après tout, cette réponse s'appelle la démocratie. Démocratie  qui suppose le refus de l'irrationnel et la reconnaissance des identités. Refus de l'irrationnel : celui-ci nous  interdit d'abdiquer devant les fanatismes de toutes sortes que l'on retrouve sous toutes les latitudes, dans toutes  les civilisations. La reconnaissance des identités exige que soit respecté l'équilibre toujours difficile et  cependant nécessaire entre les groupes humains, les ethnies qui constituent les peuples, les peuples qui font les  nations, les nations qui font la société internationale.
114 Or, une seconde chance nous est offerte. Nous vivons maintenant comme une autre après-guerre, celle  qui nous a fait sortir du monde coupé en deux et des blocs militaires. Léon Blum l'avait affirmé en 1946, je le  cite : "On attend de l'UNESCO deux résultats qui ne sont nullement incompatibles, bien au contraire : d'une  part, des initiatives précises, méthodiques, progressives dans un certain nombre de domaines techniques  essentiels et d'autre part, une action d'ensemble sur la condition spirituelle des peuples et des individus."
11.5  Au-dela des programmes sur lesquels vous travaillez, votre véritable objectif n'est-il pas de renouer  avec la société des esprits que j'évoquais pour commencer. Il serait impensable que l'UNESCO ne puisse  constituer ce forum qu'elle a pour mission d'être pour traiter l'ensemble des grands problèmes de civilisation du  monde contemporain. Il serait impensable que l'UNESCO ne soit pas pleinement ce pour quoi elle a été faite et  c'est pourquoi, vraiment, j'appelle, en tant que pays hôte de l'UNESCO, l'ensemble des Etats à venir rejoindre  aujourd'hui cette forte puissance mondiale de la pensée et de la création que vous entendez aujourd'hui  représenter.
116 Le temps de la responsabilité intellectuelle et culturelle des Etats et des peuples est revenu,  Réapprenons à penser, à travailler ensemble. Non plus seulement en de simples colloques, aussi intéressants et  fructueux qu'ils soient, mais en constituant une enceinte responsable capable de proposer des lignes de conduite  et de prendre des engagements au nom des Etats qui s'y retrouvent. Pourquoi ne pas aborder directement, et par  vous-mêmes, les problèmes fondamentaux, ceux de cette fin de siècle : l'environnement, le devenir de la ville,  le sort des minorités, l'apprentissage de la démocratie et, bien entendu, la définition d'une nouvelle coopération  culturelle Nord-Sud généreuse, efficace, en un mot, exigeante ?
11.7 Car le vent de la liberté n'a pas seulement soufflé sur l'Est. Au Sud aussi, de plus en plus nombreuses  sont les voix qui s'élèvent pour réclamer davantage de dialogue, de responsabilité, davantage de droits. Je me  réjouis de ces revendications : elles portent en elles le germe du renouveau. Mais il faut le répéter partout, le  répéter sans cesse, comme je m'efforce de le faire moi-même : la liberté est indissociable du développement. On  ne bâtit pas la démocratie, le progrès sur la misère et l'injustice. Or, le poids de la dette, l'effondrement du prix  des matières premières, la dégradation de l'environnement s'aggravent chaque jour et aggravent en même temps  une situation déjà insupportable.
11.8 Dans tous ces domaines, vous connaissez l'action de la France et c'est vrai qu'au cours de ces dernières  années, la plupart des initiatives ont été prises par notre pays ou ont été partagées par lui, afin d'alléger tous ces  poids sous lesquels ploient l'énergie, le courage et la vie des hommes sur la terre.
119 Mais vous avez vous-mêmes une mission particulière, l'approfondissement du savoir, l'essor des  connaissances, le développement de l'éducation, qui sont à la source même, précisément, de tout  développement, en même temps que de la démocratie, puisqu'il s'agit de la prise en mains de leur destin par les  citoyens.
11.10 Le droit à l'éducation, reconnu par la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme, demeure encore  lettre morte pour une part importante de l'humanité. Près d'un milliard d'adultes, dont les deux tiers sont des  femmes, demeurent analphabètes. Plus de cent millions d'enfants, dont une majorité de filles, n'ont pas accès à  l'enseignement primaire. De 10 à 20 % de la population ne maîtrise pas les mécanismes élémentaires de la  lecture et de l'écriture, même dans les Etats industrialisés. Et cette situation s'est alourdie au cours des dix  dernières années.
11.11 Comme l'a rappelé la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous tenue en Thaïlande l'année  dernière, c'est, au sein du système des Nations Unies, à l'UNESCO qu'incombe tout particulièrement la  responsabilité de l'éducation. Et c'est donc à votre Organisation qu'il appartient au premier chef d'apporter la  réponse. Vous le ferez d'autant mieux, Mesdames et Messieurs, que vous vous concerterez avec les différentes  institutions internationales qui interviennent dans ce domaine, les organisations non gouvernementales ainsi  que les grandes fondations ou institutions d'aide bilatérale.
11.12 Encore faut-il que l'UNESCO elle-même s'en donne les moyens, ou qu'elle les ait, qu'elle soit par son  expérience, par sa qualification, par sa ténacité, ce pôle d'excellence dont l'autorité s'impose et s'imposera, pour  susciter autour d'elle l'engagement de la communauté internationale tout entière. C'est ce que je voulais  exprimer il y a un moment en faisant appel à celles et ceux qui ne sont pas encore, qui ne sont plus, parmi vous,  et qui devraient, tous ensemble, s'engager dans l'ambitieuse réussite qu'exige le sort de l'humanité. Les  événements de ces dernières années sont là pour le démontrer : les hommes de science et de culture précèdent  souvent les autres et en particulier les responsables politiques, ou du moins, ils les inspirent pour leur indiquer  le chemin.
11.13 Enfin, la France salue les efforts entrepris par vos responsables, par votre Directeur général,  M. Federico Mayor. Elle nourrit pour vous et pour votre Organisation les plus grandes ambitions et se déclare  prête, elle, la France, à contribuer de son mieux aux grands débats qui vous attendent.
11.14 Je n'ai que peu parlé de vos programmes. Cependant, comment ne pas citer, en ce moment et ici, la  restauration en cours des sites d'Angkor au moment où renaît, après tant d'épreuves, la nation cambodgienne  dont la pleine autorité internationale sera reconnue à Paris la semaine prochaine ?
11.15 Mesdames et Messieurs, vous êtes l'universel. Je le répète, votre vocation c'est l'universalité dans  l'espace, dans le temps et dans le savoir. Plus que jamais, l'humanité se cherche des points de repère, vous êtes  là pour les lui fournir. Je suis convaincu que cette vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale de  l'UNESCO vous permettra d'avancer de façon décisive dans cette voie, C'est pourquoi, au nom de la France,  heureuse de vous accueillir à Paris, je vous exprime mes voeux de bienvenue en même temps que mes voeux de  plein succès pour vos travaux. Merci.
12. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is suspended for a few minutes.  (The meeting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. to permit the President of the French Republic to leave  the hall, it resumed at 12 noon)  CONSTITUTION DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  CONSTITUCION DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  CO3/1AHHE KOMHTETA IO IMPOBEPKE MOITHOMOYHH  SLGeŸl 350 and Lad JAS  À 2 HILE # Eh &
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may we now proceed to the establishment of the Credentials  Committee in conformity with Rule 27, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  according to which 'The Credentials Committee shall consist of nine members who shall be elected by the  General Conference on the proposal of the Temporary President’. I should like to propose in accordance with  the principle of equitable distribution between the five regional groups that the Committee be composed of the  following members: Benin, Chad, China, Guatemala, Jordan, Italy, Nepal, Paraguay and Poland.
13.2  Isee no objections. It is so decided.
13.3 In accordance with the same Rule 27, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the Credentials  Committee will elect its own Chairman.  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS: STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES  ATRASADAS
3AJONTKEHHOCTH ITO BBHOCAM: 3A5IBIEHHE BPEMEHHOTO MPE/[CE/TATEJ/ISI  BA) Guat J) plus : SYS OUI (SA AY  RSR 2 Whe ERE
141 The PRESIDENT:  Our next item concerns arrears in contributions. This is a matter which has an effect on the voting  rights of Member States at the present session. The document for this item is 26 C/50.
142 According to Article IV, paragraph 8 (b), of the Constitution, the right to vote is made conditional  upon the payment by Member States of contributions. The Executive Board at its 137th session examined  communications from 15 Member States, namely: Bolivia, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Grenada,  Guatemala, Iraq, Liberia, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Yugoslavia. The  Board has recommended to the General Conference that these Member States be allowed to participate in the  voting during the twenty-sixth session, and invited the Director-General to urge Member States in arrears as
17   listed in document 137 EX/22 Add. to pay their contributions outstanding or, in exceptional circumstances, at  least to enter into payments plans for settlement of their arrears. Consequently, the Secretariat has prepared  letters to Member States concerned, which were remitted to them when they registered for the General  Conference, in order to draw their attention to the recommendations by the Executive Board.
14.3  Irecognize the delegate of the Dominican Republic.
(15) Mr FERNANDEZ (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):  The Dominican Republic has also invoked the provisions of Articles IV. C, paragraph 8 (b), of the  Constitution, but we do not seem to have been included in the list of States whose right to vote is to be  considered.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Are there any other objections? I give the floor to the delegate of Paraguay.
(17 Mr FILARTIGA LACROIX (Paraguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Paraguay has not been mentioned either, although we have also sent the corresponding note.
18. The PRESIDENT:  This will be the next matter to be raised.
19. Mr TETAGA (Papua New Guinea):  Papua New Guinea is also sending its letter to the General Conference.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I call on the delegate of Yugoslavia.
21. Ms KIPRIJUREOVA (Yugoslavia):  Mr President, it is with great pleasure that I inform you that the Yugoslav Government has given  instructions to the Yugoslav national bank to pay out the Yugoslav contribution. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We take note that the money has been remitted. Are there any more objections? I call on  Scnegal.
23. M. SARRE (Sénégal) :  La délégation sénégalaise a le plaisir de vous informer que le gouvernement sénégalais s'est acquitté de  sa contribution mardi demier. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I recognize the delegate of the Central African Republic.
25. M. MANDATA-N'GUEREKATA (République centrafricaine) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. J'ai le plaisir de vous informer que la République  centrafricaine vient elle aussi de s'acquitter de ses arriérés le 10 octobre de cette année. Je vous remercie.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, may I take it that the recommendation is adopted, namely that  Bolivia, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Grenada, Guatemala, Iraq, Liberia, Madagascar, Nicaragua,  Panama, Peru, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Yugoslavia be permitted to vote during the twenty-sixth session of  the General Conference?
26.2 The delegate of Mali has asked for the floor.
27. M. N'DIAYE (Mali) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je crois que le Mali a lui aussi adressé une requête à la Commission  financière et administrative et nous avons constaté que nous ne sommes pas cités parmi les différents pays qui  souhaitent avoir le droit de vote. Merci.
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  The list I have just read concerns countries which submitted communications earlier before the time-  limit established by the Executive Board and the Secretariat. I shall refer to Mali in a moment. May I ask  whether the Member States that I have just mentioned are to be authorized to participate in the voting at this  session?
28.2 Itis so decided.
28.3 Now, since the deadline initially fixed, further communications have been received, namely from  Burundi, El Salvador, Mali and Suriname; they appear as Annexes XVIII, XIX, XX and XXI of document
26 C/50. Since the date of preparation of document 26 C/50, communications have been received from Antigua  and Barbuda, Lebanon, Mozambique, Paraguay, Papua New Guinea, Argentina, Gambia and Niger. We have  also just received notice from the Dominican Republic, Senegal and the Central African Republic. Invoking the  provisions of Article IV, paragraph 8 (c), of the Constitution, may I therefore seek your agreement to permit  these countries to vote at the present session?
28.4 I see no objection. It is so decided.
28.5 Now, 40 Member States still had arrears of contributions in excess of the amount due for the current  year and the immediately preceding calendar year at 10 October 1991, as shown in Annex I of document
26 C/50. But Senegal as well as Saint Christopher and Nevis have since paid more than their amount of arrears  listed therein and so have the right to vote. Payments are in the process of transfer to the Organization from a  few other Member States. Confirmation has been received from Argentina, Mozambique and Yugoslavia that  amounts exceeding due arrears of contributions for previous financial periods are in process of transfer. I shall  announce receipt of these and other payments as soon as they are made, so that delegates of other Member  States may vote immediately thereafter. Nevertheless we shall require a decision on this matter; if the General  Conference so decides, the question might be referred to the Administrative Commission, which would  examine it in the framework of its debate on item 9.6. May I take it that you agree?
28.6 It 1s so decided.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX  ORGANIZATION OF WORK  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS  OPTAHH3ALH#H PABOTDI  Jlacÿt aus  T E44
29.1 The PRESIDENT:  Now we have come to the close of the morning's plenary meeting because we will have to proceed  immediately to the Nominations Committee. The Committee will prepare the list of nominations for  membership of the General Committee including the Chairpersons of the respective commissions and other  organs, In accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee consists of the  heads of all delegations entitled to vote in this Conference. The head of delegation may of course designate  another member of the delegation to vote in his or her place and may be assisted by one other member of the  delegation. Rule 29 also states that the Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. The Nominations  Committee will meet in Room XI, immediately after this meeting. I wish the Nominations Committee every  success. The Credentials Committee will hold its first meeting immediately after this meeting in Room VIII.
29.2 The meeting is adjourned and we shall meet at 3 p.m, sharp.
20  La séance est levée à 12 h.20  The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 12.20
3acenanne 3akpbIBaeTca B 12.20  od sas VY, YL eld) ob Lada! cans,  UT 11H04) 45 R