Vingt-quatrième séance plénière
4 novembre 1991, à 15 h.10  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Twenty-fourth plenary meeting
4 Hos6ps 1991 r. B 15.10  Ipencenatens: r-R OroT (Kenns)  Oardadly Last dl Lalad! LulaI  JSTOR SVE WMT CIL IIL FARR yO Py  (Las) ada dual: aad I  fy ol U1 No
19914F1184 H, 158104  Æ M: RE TEICE (FRED
731   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  MOKJIAJ| KOMHCCHH TIO AJIMHHHCTPATHBHbIM BOIIPOCAM: PE3OIIIOLIUN H  PEKOMEHJITAIHH »  lue golly zal Had: Glad) Call] a 440  TE RE VRE : IL AN IX
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I declare the meeting open. As we do not have a quorum, 1 will  suspend the meeting for five minutes.  (The meeting was suspended at 3.10 p.m. and resumed at 3.15 p.m.)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is called to order. The item on our agenda is the approval of the  report of the Administrative Commission and the adoption of the recommendations made therein. As you  know, there is no written narrative report before us, and a summary covering important points of discussion in  the Administrative Commission will be presented to us orally by the Chairman of the Commission,  Ambassador Ananda Guruge. :
1.3 An introduction together with the recommendations of the Commission on the items on its agenda are  contained in documents 26 C/143 and 26 C/143 Add. & Corr. before you.
1.4 I now turn to Ambassador Guruge for any general remarks he may wish to make before moving on to  the approval of the report and the adoption of the recommendations item by item. Mr Guruge, you have the  floor.
2.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an honour  and privilege, and a pleasure as well, to be able to present to you for adoption the report of the Administrative  Commission of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.
2.2 Before I do so, I have to make amends for a lapse on my part to which several of my colleagues, who  are nevertheless my friends, have drawn my attention. It seems that I have not even once drawn on the wisdom  of Asia in the course of any of my statements hitherto. I do apologize most sincerely. My excuse, Mr President,  is simple. I could have drawn the attention of the Commission to one of the most useful pieces of advice on  economic matters to be found in the Buddhist scriptures. In this, Buddha recommends the following budgeting  technique: divide the income into four equal parts; one part only must be used for daily expenses; two parts  must be invested in enterprises to generate further resources; and the last and fourth part should be set aside for  an emergency.
23 Mr President, such a technique does not appear to be applicable at this particular stage when the  Director-General has used the most stringent budgeting techniques and proposed, much against his own desires  and much against the wishes of many Member States, negative growth in real terms for the first time in this or  any other organization of the United Nations system. We congratulate him on streamlining the management  but we would have liked the $11 million so saved to have been applied to priority areas of the programme. I  would, however, recommend that ways and means be explored to avoid taking desperate steps like borrowing  when real emergencies such as cash deficits arise. We have to set aside something to overcome such situations.
24 Mr President, friends, I have a more relevant allusion to make from a set of principles which the  Buddha once enunciated. He was responding to a question as to whether a small republic threatened by the  growing imperial tendencies of the neighbouring overlord of Magadha could survive. The Buddha said that as  long as this republic respected the seven principles of stability, the republic despite its smallness would survive  and prosper. These are the seven principles of stability: (1) they assemble in harmony, discuss their business in  harmony and disperse in harmony; (2) they introduce no revolutionary ordinances and respect conventions and  traditional laws; (3) they honour and esteem the elderly and the experienced; (4) they respect and protect the  womenfolk; (5) they hold on to religious values, principles and practices and safeguard their shrines; (6) they  fulfil their obligations and do not allow the customary offerings to be neglected; and (7) they are tolerant and  allow free access and sojourn to all holy persons. How these principles apply to an Organization like UNESCO
732   need not be elaborated. But permit me nevertheless to say how many of these we have been able to uphold  during our current session and how much we have envisaged them in our programme and budget.
2.5 Mr President, you have been an exemplary chairman and seen to it that the first principle of meeting  regularly and harmoniously is observed to the letter. Mr Director-General, perhaps you had no idea that your  efforts to improve the position of women in the Organization are in accordance with the Buddha's own  injunction. The German proposal for a forum is a veritable approach to ensuring greater esteem for the wisdom  of the elderly and the experienced. My own Commission has taken every care not to violate conventions and  established practices while at the same time underlining the obligation to pay one's dues without delay. The  most encouraging to me is the increase in the importance the Organization has begun to assign to religion. The  safeguarding of monuments, which are for the most part religious, is another principle of stability. The most  significant of these are projects like the Integral Study of the Silk Roads, the World Decade for Cultural  Development and the newest proposal concerning the Routes of Faith, all of which highlight religious tolerance  on the one hand and the promotion of spiritual and ethical values on the other.
2.6 With this introduction, and after expressing my utmost satisfaction with an excellent session of the  General Conference which is now drawing to a close, let me present to you the report of the Administrative  Commission.
2.7 Mr President, at the outset I would like to express my immense pleasure and satisfaction at being able  to report to you the successful achievement of the complex tasks which were assigned to the Administrative  Commission. But for the complete understanding and co-operation of all its members, not to mention their  patience, we would not have been able to do so within the time-frame.
2.8 The Commission had 27 items on its agenda to be considered under five major headings: eight items  relating to the programme and budget (item 3.2 on budgeting techniques and methods; item 3.4 and items 3.7  to 3.11 on detailed consideration of Parts I, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of the budget; the appendices to document
26 C/5 and item 3.12 on the Appropriation Resolution); items 8.1 and 8.3 (under Methods of work of the  Organization) concerning respectively the information resources development plan and the use of the six  working languages of the General Conference; items 9.1 to 9.8 relating to Financial Questions (the financial  reports, the scale, currency, collection and payment of Member States’ contributions, and the Working Capital  Fund); items 10.1 to 10.6 on Staff Questions (Staff Rules and Regulations, and salaries; the geographical  distribution of the staff; pension issues; and the Medical Benefits Fund); and items 11.1 to 11.3 concerning the  upkeep of Headquarters buildings, the report by and mandate of the Headquarters Committee.
2.9 Mr President, 15 meetings were devoted to the discussion and adoption of recommendations  concerning the 27 items. A sixteenth meeting will be devoted tomorrow to the Joint Meeting of the  Administrative Commission and the five Programme Commissions on item 3.12, with a view to fixing the final  budget ceiling, as well as its breakdown into individual appropriation lines, taking into account the distribution  of the Reserve for Draft Resolutions. This meeting will also transmit the Appropriation Resolution to the  General Conference for adoption.
2.10 — As decided by the first plenary meeting when considering item 1.6 and in accordance with the  procedure followed during the last session of the General Conference, the Commission's report includes only  the decisions recommended to the General Conference for adoption. Any reservations expressed by delegates  have been mentioned in all cases.  ITEM 3 - PROGRAMME AMD BUDGET  Item 3.2 - Methods of preparing the budget and budget estimates for 1992-1993 (26 C/5 &  Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 & Add., 26 C/7, 26 C/8, 26 C/ADM/DR.3 Rev.)
2.11 Mr President, the Commission had before it eight items relating to the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1992-1993: item 3.2 relating to the techniques and methods of preparing the budget and budget estimates;  item 3.4 and items 3.7 to 3.11 relating to a detailed consideration of Parts I, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII of the  budget; and the 14 appendices issued separately.
2.12 I now take up item 3.2. Although this item was entitled ‘Methods of preparing the budget and budget  estimates for 1992-1993’, it also included consideration of the text of the Appropriation Resolution and of the  budgeting techniques to be used 1n future C/5 documents.
2.13 The Administrative Commission examined the techniques and methods applied in the preparation of  the budget and budget estimates for 1992-1993 with a view to ascertaining their conformity with the decisions  of the General Conference and the Executive Board, bearing in mind the affirmative conclusions of the 136th  and 137th sessions of the Executive Board.
2.14 After a detailed examination, the Commission was satisfied that these techniques had been applied in
26 C/5 in accordance with the directives of the General Conference and the Executive Board. Many speakers  considered that the techniques currently practised were among the most advanced in the United Nations system.
2.15 The Commission recalled the provisional budget ceiling of $415,143,000 for Parts I to VII of the  budget, to which should be added $29,561,000 for Part VIII in accordance with document 26 C/5 Rev. 2,  making a total of $444,704,000. You may recall that this provisional budget ceiling was adopted by the plenary  on 28 October. The final budget ceiling will be fixed tomorrow during the meeting of the Administrative  Commission and the five Programme Commissions.
2.16 Mr President, for future C/5 documents, the Commission felt that the budgeting techniques used so far  should be subjected to a very thorough review in the light of the changing international economic situation and  the budgeting practices of other United Nations agencies. It was therefore agreed that the Executive Board  should be authorized to specify the techniques to be used in the preparation of the next programme and budget.  In this connection the Commission welcomed the creation of an expert group on financial and administrative  matters, in accordance with decision 8.6 of the 137th session of the Executive Board. This group of experts  could look into existing budgeting techniques with a view to making proposals for further refinements and  improvements through the Finance and Administrative Commission of the Executive Board.
2.17 Some members voiced a word of caution against too radical or fundamental changes in the techniques  which to date have served the Organization well. They agreed, however, that improvements could be brought  about with regard to the budget presentation, coherence, clarity and level of detail. Others suggested that  Part VII should no longer be established separately, but integrated into the budget, as in other United Nations  organizations. It was also suggested that the provision under Part VIII could be dispensed with in the light of  the split-level method of assessment adopted by UNESCO. Other members considered that these matters should  be taken up in the forthcoming review of budgeting techniques for the preparation of the next Draft Programme  and Budget (27 C/5).
2.18 The recommendations of the Commission concerning the review of budgeting techniques with the  involvement of the group of experts on financial and administrative matters was discussed in the General  Committee. The Committee heard the views of the Chairman of the Executive Board, following a letter he had  addressed to the President of the General Conference in which reference was made to the constitutional  relationship between the Executive Board and the General Conference and to the established procedure  whereby the General Conference addressed itself only to the Executive Board and not to any of its subsidiary  organs. In the ensuing discussion in the General Committee, the majority was in favour of the opinion  expressed by the Chairman of the Executive Board and accordingly called upon the Commission to review the  wording of the paragraphs concerned and incorporate suitable modifications. A revised text was proposed in  draft resolution 26 C/ADM/DR.6. Three alternative texts were also received: while one of them contained no  reference to the group of experts, the other two (one of which was subsequently withdrawn) retained references  to the group of experts acting through the Executive Board and its Finance and Administrative Commission.  Following a debate in which several delegates participated, the latter version was retained after an informal  show of hands. The Commission, however, felt the desirability of recommending to the General Conference a  consensus text. An informal working group under the leadership of Canada drew up the new paragraphs 3  and 5 of section I of the draft resolution appearing under paragraph 2(A) of document 26 C/143 Add. &  Corr. in replacement of paragraph 4 of the text contained in paragraph 6 of document 26 C/143 which was  unanimously approved by the Commission. Certain reservations concerning subparagraph 7 of the proposed  resolution are indicated in paragraph 7 of the report.
2.19 I now submit the draft resolution appearing in paragraph 6 of document 26 C/143 as amended in  document 26 C/143 Add. & Corr., paragraph 2 (A), I, for adoption by the General Conference.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Before we consider the draft resolution, I would like to point out that any improvements in  the style, idiom and language of the text of the report, and all corrections of mistakes in translation between the  various languages, will be incorporated into the final version which will be verified by the Reading Committee.  I would therefore appreciate it if observations in this regard are not made here; on the other hand, you may  wish to hand over your suggestions, if any, to the Secretariat of the Administrative Commission.
3.2 We can now go back to the draft resolution just proposed by the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission. Are there any objections or comments? I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland.
4, M. NORDMANN (Suisse) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement faire ajouter le nom de la Suisse à la liste des  pays énumérés au paragraphe 7, comme ayant émis une réserve.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, shall we consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 6  of document 26 C/143 as amended under sections (A) and (B) of document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr. as  adopted?
52 It 1s so decided.  Item 3.4 - Part I - General Policy and Direction (26 C/5 and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and Add.,
5.3 Now we turn to item 3.4 - Detailed consideration of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993;  Part I - General Policy and Direction. I invite the Chairman of the Administrative Commission to present the  report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the Commission's recommendations thereon.  Mr Guruge, you have the floor.
6.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  This part consists of five chapters, each of which constitutes a separate appropriation line. The  Commission submitted paragraphs 00001 to 00064 of document 26 C/5, Part I - General Policy and Direction,  to a detailed examination which focused on the proposed arrangements concerning the duration of the sessions  of the General Conference and the Executive Board, and on the functioning of certain services of the  Directorate.
6.2 As regards Chapter 1 (General Conference) and Chapter 2 (Executive Board), the majority of the  delegates who addressed themselves to these chapters were of the opinion that the budgetary provisions for the  General Conference and the Executive Board could not be further compressed without adversely affecting the  efficiency of these organs; and that further cost reductions could be envisaged only if there were profound  changes in their structure and working methods. As to the question of whether the proposals aimed at  improving the efficiency of the work of the Executive Board, under consideration by the General Conference at  its present session, would have an impact on its budget in 1992-1993, it was explained that any such impact  would be felt only as from the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995 (27 C/5), since 1992-1993 would be  a transitional period with respect to the introduction of any new arrangements.
6.3 In response to concerns voiced over the fact that information documents for the General Conference  were produced only in English and French, it was explained that although these documents could be produced  in other languages, this would have additional financial implications.
6.4 Finally, the view was expressed that the clarity of the budget tables (for example under para. 00005)  would be further enhanced by the presentation of detailed additional budgetary data enabling a comparison to  be made not only between the proposed provision and the recosted base but also between the proposed provision  and the approved one.
6.5 Concerning the Services of the Directorate under Chapter 4 of Part I of the programme and budget, the  Commission was provided with information on the new arrangements foreseen for the carrying out of the  functions of the Mediator by a senior and widely respected staff member in one of the sectors, thereby ensuring  the required independence. This would enable the Mediator's post to be abolished. On the other hand, the
24   clerical requirements of this function necessitated the maintenance under this chapter of a secretarial post and  of a small provision for temporary assistance.
6.6 Questions were also raised and information provided concerning the evaluation activities foreseen for
1992-1993, which would comprise essentially six impact (or external) evaluations as well as self-evaluation  activities (i.e. internal evaluation). An explanation was also provided on how such activities would dovetail into  the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995. It was explained that the results of the  evaluation activities of the Secretariat were always brought to the attention of the Executive Board in an  appropriate manner and that the Board also carried out its own evaluation activities. Information was also  furnished on the staffing and functions of the Division of Studies and Programming.
6.7 In reply to a query from a member of the Commission about the calculations for recosting the budget  provision under Part I of the budget, explanations were given for the variations that could be observed in the  recosting percentages evidenced under such staff-intensive services as those under Part I of the budget, as well  as the general administrative and programme support services, as compared with those for the programme  sectors, which had large budget provisions for programme costs.
6.8 At the end of the debate the Commission recommended that the General Conference approve the  budget provisions under these five chapters as follows, subject to adjustment in the light of the decisions to be  taken by the Joint Meeting of the Administrative Commission and the Programme Commissions: Chapter 1 -  General Conference - $5,633,100; Chapter 2 - Executive Board - $6,912,900; Chapter 3 - Directorate -  $1,678,700; Chapter 4 - Services of the Directorate - $15,316,000; Chapter 5 - Participation in the Joint  Machinery of the United Nations System - $1,166,300; Total Part I - $30,707,000.
6.9 I accordingly propose to the General Conference for adoption, the recommendations appearing in  paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of document 26 C/143, as amended by section (C) of document 26 C/143  Add. and Corr. as regards the French version of the report.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendations contained in paragraphs
12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of document 26 C/143 as amended by document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr., as adopted.
7.2 It is so decided.
7.3 I give the floor to the delegate of Chile.
(8) M. SANHUEZA CARVAJAL (Chili) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Maintenant que les crédits proposés par la Commission  administrative ont été approuvés, mon pays voudrait donner quelques éclaircissements quant à son adhésion au  consensus. Les délégués qui ont représenté le Chili dans les différentes commissions de cette vingt-sixième  session de la Conférence générale se sont réunis et sont parvenus à la conclusion que, malheureusement, la durée  actuelle de la Conférence générale ne permettait pas aux Etats de participer comme il convient aux travaux de la  session. Cet état de choses est particulièrement grave s'agissant d'une région comme l'Amérique latine, qui compte  de nombreux Etats sans délégation permanente auprès de l'Organisation à Paris et pour lesquels par conséquent le
736   fait d'assister à la Conférence générale constitue l'occasion non seulement de participer à ses travaux, mais aussi  de traiter avec le Secrétariat des questions qui les intéressent. Ainsi, Monsieur le Président, la façon dont le  Conférence générale est actuellement structurée fait que les Etats membres, de plus en plus marginalisés, sont de  moins en moins en mesure d'influer sur le destin de l'Organisation. Aussi, sans préjudice de l'approbation des  crédits prévus pour la prochaine Conférence générale, mon pays souhaiterait-il que le Conseil exécutif,  conformément aux indications données par le Secrétariat lors de la réunion de la Commission administrative,  évalue, dans la durée, les répercussions politiques et administratives d'une Conférence générale aussi courte que  celle-ci.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I think that the thing to do at this stage is to record your comments and probably ask the  Executive Board to examine them. It is obviously the shortest General Conference session we have ever had,  but we can take that into consideration when we are organizing the next session. Your comments will be  recorded.  Item 3.7 - Part IV - General Admi istrative Services (26 C/5 and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and  Add., 26 C/7, 26 C/8)
9.2 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon. He has the floor.
10.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, the report on item 3.7 - Part IV is subdivided into four chapters: Chapter 1 - Bureau of  the Comptroller; Chapter 2 - Bureau of Personnel; Chapter 3 - Bureau of Documentation, Informatics Services  and Telecommunications; and Chapter 4 - General Services Division. While the four chapters as a whole form  one appropriation line, the Commission discussed each chapter separately.
10.2 Several speakers referred to the net reduction of 12 posts under this part of the draft programme and  budget, and the view was expressed that further reduction of the staffing of the administrative services might  prove counter-productive.
10.3 Concerning the Bureau of the Comptroller questions were raised and explanations provided  concerning the proposed staffing reduction of one Professional and two General Service posts; the functions of  the Bureau with respect to the management of financial resources under the regular budget; associated funds  and special accounts; the amount of $2,071,300 proposed for 1992-1993 for the contribution to the Medical  Benefits Fund (MBF) for associate participants and for administrative costs relating to the MBF's operations;  and the financial situation of the MBF.
10.4 With respect to the Bureau of Personnel, several queries were raised concerning training activities and  human resources development, one member deeming that the amounts spent on staff training were inadequate.  Information was also provided to the Commission on the assignment of probationers, on the number of post  reclassifications foreseen in document 26 C/5 and on staff training activities.
10.5 The proposed provision for 1992-1993 for the Bureau of Documentation, Informatics Services and  Telecommunications was discussed in conjunction with item 8.1 of the agenda (Proposals for an information  resources development plan).
10.6 At the end of the discussion, the Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of  the budgetary provision under Part IV of the budget, broken down as follows: Chapter 1 - Bureau of the  Comptroller - $9,692,900; Chapter 2 - Bureau of Personnel - $13,639,300; Chapter 3 - Bureau of  Documentation, Informatics Services and Telecommunications - $7,407,200; and Chapter 4 - General Services  Division - $4,713,000; Total - $35,452,400.
10.7 The Commission also recommended that the General Conference approve the budgetary provision of  $35,452,400 for Part IV, subject to adjustment in the light of decisions to be taken by the Joint Meeting of the  Administrative Commission and the Programme Commissions. I submit the recommendations appearing in  paragraphs 19 and 20 of document 26 C/143, amended by section (D) of document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr,  for adoption by the General Conference.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendations contained in  paragraphs 19 and 20 of document 26 C/143, as amended by document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr., as adopted.
112 — Itis so decided.  Item 3.8 - Part V - Maintenance a d security (26 C/5 and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and Add,
11.3 I now invite Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
12.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  This item was examined by the Commission in conjunction with items 11.1 (Upkeep of Headquarters  buildings and plant, and conservation and large-scale repair work: Report by the Director-General),
11.2 (Report by the Headquarters Committee) and 11.3 (Mandate of the Headquarters Committee).
122 — In reply to questions, clarifications were provided on the relations between the budgetary provision  under this part and the financing of the conservation programme for 1992-1995 presented in document
26 C/70. At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended that the General Conference approve the  budgetary provision of US $28,810,300, subject to adjustments in the light of the decisions to be taken by the  Joint Meeting of the Administrative Commission and the Programme Commissions. This recommendation  appears in paragraph 23 of document 26 C/143, which I propose to the General Conference for adoption.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendation contained in paragraph 23  of document 26 C/143 as adopted.
13.2 — Itis so decided.  Item 3.9 - Part VI - Capital expenditure (26 C/5 and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and Add,
133 I call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
14.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  The Commission took note of the budgetary provision of $1,348,400 under this part of the draft  programme and budget and recommended that the General Conference approve it, subject to adjustment in the  light of decisions to be taken by the Joint Meeting of the Administrative Commission and the Programme  Commissions.
14.2 I submit this recommendation appearing in paragraph 25 of document 26 C/143 for adoption by the  General Conference.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendation contained in paragraph 25  of document 26 C/143 as adopted.
152 Itis so decided.  Item 3.10 - Part VII - Anticipated cost increases (26 C/S and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and Add.,
15.3 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
16.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, in considering this item, the Commission examined paragraphs 17002-17005 of  document 26 C/5 and the proposed budgetary provision of $18,215,700, made up of $15,318,000 for staff  salaries and allowances and $6,997,700 for goods and services, offset by a reduction of $4,100,000, which  would have to be absorbed. The Commission also took into account paragraph 108 of document 26 C/6 in  which the Executive Board had recommended that the reduction of $4,100,000 under Part VII should not affect  priority areas. Accordingly, the text of paragraph 17005 (c)(ii) was revised to read "the reduction will have to be  absorbed within non-priority areas, while priority areas will benefit fully from additional allocations for cost  increases due to inflation’.
16.2 In reply to questions, the Commission was informed of the detailed modalities of calculation of the  budgetary provision; no efforts were spared to ensure that the calculations, which were made item by item, were  realistic, and the details of such calculations were available for consultation. A suggestion was made  concerning the application of standard indices for establishing the amount of anticipated cost increases. Such  an approach would be much simpler, and the group of experts on financial and administrative matters could  look into this in the context of its study of budgeting techniques.
16.3 At the end of the debate, the Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference approve  the budgetary provision of $18,215,700 for Part VII - Anticipated cost increases, and that para-  graph 17005(c)(ii) be revised as proposed by the Director-General in document 26 C/5 Rev. 1, paragraph 12.  This recommendation appears in paragraph 28 of document 26 C/143, which I propose to the General  Conference for adoption.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendation contained in paragraph 28  of document 26 C/143 as adopted.
17.2  Itis so decided.  Item 3.11 - Part VIII - Currency adjustment (26 C/5 and Rev. 1 and 2, 26 C/6 and Add.
17.3 I now ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
18.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, under this item the Commission examined three documents: 26 C/5, where the figure of  $36,896,000 was established at the exchange rate of 5.65 French francs and 1.31 Swiss francs to the dollar;
26 C/5 Rev. where the figure was reduced to $14,670,000 applying an exchange rate of 6.10 French francs and
1.55 Swiss francs to the dollar; and 26 C/5 Rev. 2 where, following subsequent movements in the exchange  rates, the requirements for currency adjustment were revised to $29,561,000 at the October dollar rate of
5.75 French francs and 1.47 Swiss francs to the dollar.
18.2 — At the end of the debate, the Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference take  note of the budgetary provision of $29,561,000 for Part VIII - Currency adjustment. I propose the relevant  recommendation appearing in paragraph 31 of the report for adoption by the General Conference.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendation contained in paragraph 31  of document 26 C/143 as adopted.
192 — Itis so decided.  Appendices to document 26 C/5
19.3 The next subject relates to the Administrative Commission's examination of the 26 C/5 Appendices.  Mr Guruge, you have the floor to present your report on the Administrative Commission's consideration of the
14 appendices.
20.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission examined the form and content of the 14 appendices to  document 26 C/5, issued separately. The first ten of them contain data concerning the budget and the last four  data concerning programme activities.
20.2 One delegate regretted the discontinuation of the appendix showing the detailed distribution of  Part VII, Anticipated cost increases, among all parts of the budget. The Commission was assured that  Appendix V will be expanded to contain this information in future C/5 documents. Another delegate, referring  to Appendix XII, regretted that Spanish was not foreseen as a working language in several important meetings  scheduled to take place in 1992-1993. The delegate of the USSR made a similar reservation with regard to the  use of Russian.
20.3 May I now propose that the General Conference take note of the appendices subject to the observations  indicated in paragraphs 34 and 35 of the report of the Administrative Commission.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Chile has the floor.
(22) M. SANHUEZA CARVAJAL (Chili) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement signaler que, dans le paragraphe 35, le nom de  mon pays soit associé à celui de l'Espagne.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Venezuela has the floor.
(24) M. DELGADO REYES (Venezuela) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement signaler que le Venezuela s'est, lui aussi, associé  à la motion de l'Espagne concernant l'usage de l'espagnol. Je vous remercie.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now I give the floor to the delegate of Colombia.
(26) Mme PARRA (Colombie) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite qu'il soit pris acte du fait que la Colombie s'est, elle aussi,  associée aux observations relatives à l'emploi de l'espagnol, et souhaite en conséquence que son nom figure sur  cette liste. Je vous remercie.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. This will be done. Now, if there are no objections, I shall consider the recommendation  contained in paragraph 34 of document 26 C/143, amended by section (E) of document 26 C/143 Add. and  Corr., as adopted.
27.2 It 1s so decided.
27.3 This concludes our work on the items concerning the budget. Now we turn to the two items relating to  the working methods of the Organization.
740   ITEM 8 - METHODS OF WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION  Item 8.1 - Proposals for an information resources development plan (26 C/45)
27.4 I ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on item 8.1 and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon. :
28.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. An exhaustive debate took place on this item. The plan in its new  formulation was appreciated for its presentation, its pragmatic approach, and the pertinence of its content in  relation to priorities, both of Member States and of the Organization. The new title of the plan (Information  Resources Development Plan) was particularly welcomed as better reflecting the approach adopted.
28.2 — The representative of the Director-General stressed that the new plan was the result of a housewide co-  operative effort, following the guidelines given by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session and by the  Executive Board. The Steering Committee for Informatics and Telecommunications assured this objective.
28.3 The Commission noted the modular structure of the plan which consisted of a preparatory phase
(1990-1991) and two biennial development phases (1992-1993 and 1994-1995). It was understood that,  although this plan as such was recommended for adoption by the General Conference, the budgetary  authorization only related to 1992-1993.
28.4 The Commission stressed the importance of systematically following up the implementation of the  plan, which should evolve in accordance with the priorities of the Organization and of Member States. The  importance of setting up a follow-up and reporting mechanism which would require the nomination of a staff  member to act as co-ordinator, and reinforcement of the role of the Steering Committee which could continue  to operate on a permanent basis as an intersectoral follow-up team, was underlined. This team could also avail  itself of the technical support of external specialists who might be provided by certain Member States. The  possibility of seeking extra-budgetary contributions to enlarge the scope and to speed up the implementation of  the plan was also mentioned.
28.5 Questions were raised as to the breakdown of costs of the new plan, its global financial implications,  the reduction of the total investment costs to $6 million from the original figure of $22.7 million, the quality  and productivity gains expected and the operation of the Special Account.
28.6 — The Commission also stressed the importance of staff training at and away from Headquarters. They  asked to what extent the training activities undertaken by the Bureau of Personnel were complementary to the  training elements contained in the Information Resources Development Plan. The necessity of ensuring a close  relationship between the Information Resources Development Plan and the four-year plan presented by the  Director-General aimed at optimizing the utilization of human resources was also underlined.
28.7 — The resolution recommended by the Commission for adoption by the General Conference appears in  paragraph 38 of document 26 C/143 and a reservation thereon in paragraph 39.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Chile has the floor.
(30) M. SANHUFZA CARVAJAL (Chili) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Veuillez m'excuser, Monsieur le Président, de prendre la parole une fois encore. Je tiens à dire que mon  pays fait sienne la réserve formulée par le délégué de l'Union soviétique au paragraphe 39. Nous partageons ses  appréhensions. Je vous remercie.
31.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. May I now consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 38 of document 26 C/143  as adopted?
31.2  Itis so decided.      Item 8.3 - Re he ix working le
31.3 Now we turn to item 8.3, conceming the Director-General's report on the use of the six working  languages of the General Conference. I ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item  and to introduce the Commission's recommendations thereon.
32.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Under item 8.3 on the use of the six working languages of the General  Conference the Commission examined documents 26 C/47 and 26 C/ADM/DR.1 Rev. The first document was  presented by the Director-General in accordance with a request made at the twenty-fifth session of the General  Conference, and the second document was a draft resolution presented by the USSR, concerning wider use of  the Russian language.
32.2 The Commission deplored the fact that, despite numerous resolutions of the General Conference  calling for an equitable treatment of the six working languages of the General Conference, therc was still a  serious imbalance in their use in UNESCO, particularly in the field of publications. The delegates emphasized  that the current distribution of the use of languages was unacceptable and that, budgetary constraints  notwithstanding, it was not unreasonable to ask that the General Conference's resolutions be implemented.  Austerity measures should not penalize some languages in relation to others.
32.3 The Commission stressed the need to revise the proposed Publications Plan for 1992-1993, which  should not show an increased number of titles in English and French while there was a decrease in three of the  other languages, and no title at all foreseen in Chinese.
32.4 The Commission wished to have some indication of the cost of giving the six languages an equitable  status, so that it could assess the situation properly.
32.5 Following the debate on the draft resolution submitted by the USSR, a working group representing  each of the six languages was constituted (Burundi for French, Canada for English, China for Chinese, Spain  for Spanish, Sudan for Arabic and the USSR for Russian) with a view to drafting a resolution to correct the  existing imbalance in the use of the six working languages of the General Conference. The working group  prepared a revised draft resolution (26 C/ADM/DR.1 Rev.) on a more balanced use of the six working  languages of the General Conference.
32.6  Inow propose to the General Conference the adoption of the resolution proposed by the working group  and recommended by the Administrative Commission, appearing in paragraph 42 of document 26 C/143,  amended by section (F) in document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr.
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 42 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
33.2 Itis so decided.
33.3 This concludes our work on the items concerning the working methods of the Organization.  ITEM 9 - FINANCIAL QUESTIONS  Item 9.1 -
33.4 Now we tum to the items relating to financial matters. The first item concerns the financial report and  audited financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for the financial period ended 31 December
1989, and report by the External Auditor.
33.5 1 call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
34.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, under Financial Questions the Commission examined eight items, the ninth item  relating to the amendment to the Financial Regulations having been deleted from the agenda. On item 9.1, we  had the pleasure of welcoming among us the External Auditor of UNESCO, Mr Jeroom L.E. Van de Velde, the  First President of the Belgian Cour des Comptes.
34.2 The Commission examined document 26 C/51 (report by the External Auditor and audited financial  statements) submitted to the General Conference in accordance with Financial Regulation 12.10. The Executive  Board, while transmitting them to the General Conference in pursuance of 135 EX/Decision 7.3, had decided to  establish an ad hoc working group to study the External Auditor's recommendations, on the basis of an  implementation report to be provided by the Director-General. This report was annexed to document 26 C/51  and the decision of the Executive Board, following the study and recommendations made by the ad hoc working  group, was quoted in paragraph 3 of the same document.
34.3 The External Auditor, after explaining how his audit had been carried out so as to enable him to give  an unreserved opinion on the financial statements of UNESCO, welcomed the initiative taken by the Executive  Board of setting up a working group to consider his recommendations in detail. The meetings of the working  group had the positive effect of producing a better understanding between the Secretariat, the Executive Board  and the External Auditor's staff. He noted that most of the recommendations contained in his report were being  implemented, and confirmed that he would be submitting a report concerning consultants to the 139th session  of the Executive Board. He assured the Commission that his next audit report would include the results of his  follow-up to the observations and proposals made in the current report.
34.4 During the debate, general appreciation was expressed of the report of the External Auditor and his  presence at the Commission. The unreserved audit opinion and the positive approach being taken to implement  the audit recommendations were emphasized. The discussions concentrated on the decision taken by the  Executive Board at its 136th session and, in particular, on addressing the training needs of the directors of field  units and of other field staff for administrative and financial management. The Commission was informed of  the intention of the Director-General to recruit young professionals with financial diplomas who, after initial  training at Headquarters, would form a cadre of professional administrative officers. This measure, together  with an improvement of administrative systems within the Information Resources Development Plan, would  strengthen both the field and Headquarters with respect to financial management and controls. The  Comptroller announced that a meeting had been scheduled for early November with all directors of field units  to discuss administrative and financial training.
34.5 — At the end of the debate the Commission recommended the resolution appearing in paragraph 45 of  the report for adoption by the General Conference.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 45 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
35.2 It is so decided.  Item 9.2 - Fi
35.3 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon,
36.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Under this item, the Commission examined document 26 C/52 which was  transmitted to the General Conference in conformity with Financial Regulation 12.10. In accordance with
25 C/Resolution 32.2, the Executive Board, by 135 EX/Decision 7.4, had approved the report of the External  Auditor.
36.2  Inreply to a question, the Commission was informed by the representative of the Director-General that  the unexpired portions of the contracts of project personnel for future years were now included in the accounts  as forward commitments. The representatives of the External Auditor explained that his examination included  an in-depth test on UNESCO-executed project expenditures and that there was no double audit of these projects  by the auditors of UNDP.
36.3 At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended the resolution appearing in paragraph 48 of  document 26 C/143 for adoption by the General Conference.
37.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 48 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
37.2 — Itis so decided.  Item 9.3 - Finançial report and interim financial statements as at 31 December 1990 for the  financial period ending 31 December 1991 (26 C/53, 26 C/53 Add.)
37.3 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
38.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, under this item the Director-General submitted the unaudited interim financial  statements of UNESCO as at 31 December 1990, for the financial period ending 31 December 1991, under  cover of document 26 C/53. Document 26 C/53 Add. reproduced 137 EX/Decision 8.3 whereby the Executive  Board decided to transmit them to the General Conference.
38.2 After a brief discussion, it was decided to change the wording of the draft resolution from Receives  and accepts’ to ‘Notes’, since this was considered to be more appropriate with regard to unaudited financial  statements.
38.3 At the end of the debate the Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference adopt the  resolution appearing in paragraph 51 of document 26 C/143.
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 51 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
39.2 It is so decided.  Item 9.4 - Scale of Member States’ contributions (26 C/54)
39.3 I now ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
40.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission considered document 26 C/54 on the principles, guidelines  and regulations determining the scale of assessments, The annex to the document contained a table showing the  probable UNESCO scale of assessments for 1992-1993 on the basis of the provisional scale of assessments  recommended by the Committee on Contributions to the 46th session of the United Nations General Assembly.
40.2 — The representative of the Director-General outlined the likely impact on the revised scale of  assessments for the biennium 1992-1993 of the admission of four new Member States (Estonia, Latvia,  Lithuania and Tuvalu) and said that the exact scale of assessments of UNESCO could not be determined until  the General Assembly had approved the United Nations revised scale in December 1991. He also drew attention  to a proposed modification in calculating the assessments of Associate Members at 60 per cent of the minimum  rate of assessment of Member States which would entail a reduction in miscellaneous income estimates for
1992-1993 of some US $ 90,000.
40.3 Several delegates expressed dissatisfaction with the probable scale for 1992-1993 on the grounds that it  did not accurately reflect changes in economic data for certain Member States. They were informed that the  Committee on Contributions of the United Nations applied a ten-year moving average of economic and other  data to determine proposed rates of Member States’ contributions, which did not always coincide with the more  recent economic situation.
40.4 With regard to the final date for the inclusion of new Member States in the scale of assessments for
1992-1993 and the question as to whether such a date was needed at all, the representative of the Director-  General replied that a cut-off date was essential to finalize a scale but that this did not mean that Member  States acceding to membership after it were exempt from paying contributions in 1992-1993. It was decided to  change the cut-off date in the draft resolution from 31 July to 31 October 1991 to allow for the inclusion of the  four new Member States in the scale.
40.5 During the discussion of this item and of item 9.5, observations were made by some delegations  concerning the texts of draft resolutions when consisting largely of standard clauses. It was suggested that such  provisions concerning basic principles and methodology could be incorporated in a manual which would  simplify the process of preparation and adoption of the resolutions. I assured the Commission, during the  adoption of the report, that, although this suggestion is not included in the recommended resolution, it would  go into the records of the General Conference so that the Director-General could study the matter with a view to  making appropriate proposals to the General Conference.
40.6 The resolution recommended by the Commission appears in paragraph 54 of document 26 C/143  subject to the modification under (G) proposed in document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr.
41.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 54 of  document 26 C/143, amended as indicated in document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr., as adopted.
41.2 It 1s so decided.  Item 9.5 - Currency of Member States’ contributions (26 C/55)
41.3 I now ask Mr Guruge to report on the work of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
42.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Document 26 C/55 contained two proposed resolutions. The first dealt with  the continuation of the split-level assessment system for payment of contributions partly in United States dollars  and partly in French francs introduced at the twenty-fourth session of the General Conference for the 1988-
1989 biennium and with the payment of contributions in currencies other than the US dollar and the French  franc. The second resolution contained a proposal by the Director-General to amend Article 5.6 of the Financial  Regulations because of the recommendation of the Executive Board that the split-level system be continued for  an indefinite period.
42.2 The Secretariat proposed that the percentage of French francs to be assessed for 1992-1993 should be  fixed at 57 per cent, a slight reduction from the 1990-1991 figure at 60 per cent, following an analysis of the  requirements for expenditures in French francs in the current biennium and with regard also to the budget  proposed for 1992-1993.
42.3 During the debate that followed, there was strong support for the continuation of the split-level  assessment system for the payment of contributions partly in United States dollars and partly in French francs.  Satisfaction was expressed by some Member States that the possibility of paying contributions in their national  currencies was also available, as in the past, in the terms of the proposed resolution.
42.4 In answering questions on the amounts accepted in national currencies, the Secretariat informed the  Commission that $1.6 million worth of national currencies from 11 Member States was accepted in 1990 and  $1.2 million in respect of six Member States was accepted in the first nine months of 1991. There had been  situations, however, where the currencies had devalued against the United States dollar after their acceptance
24   and before the Secretariat could fully utilize the amounts. Claims bad been made from the Member States  concerned to make good those losses in accordance with the relative clause in the resolution.
42.5 The resolutions, with a modification to clarify the method of determining the dollar portion of  contributions to be assessed in paragraph 1(a)(ii), recommended by the Commission for adoption by the  General Conference, appear in paragraph 59 of document 26 C/143, amended by document 26 C/143 Add. &  Corr.
43.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 59 of  document 26 C/143, amended as indicated in document 26 C/143 Add. & Corr, as adopted.
43.2 It is so decided.  Item 9.6 - Collection of Member States’ contributions (26 C/57, 26 C/57 Add. 1, 2, 3 and 4)
433 I now invite Ambassador Guruge to report on the work of the Commission on this item and to  introduce the Commission's recommendations thereon.
44.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Under this item the Commission examined document 26 C/57 and Addenda
1-4. Given the complexity and scope of the subject, the debate was structured under four headings, namely,  collection of contributions, payments plans, granting of voting rights and option for improving the cash  situation, and loans. Two meetings of the Commission were devoted to this important item.
442 The representative of the Director-General informed the Commission of those Member States that had  paid their contributions since 30 September 1991 for a total of some US $ 7.9 million, and several delegates  spoke of their own countries’ specific situations; this included a statement from the delegate of one of the larger  contributors that his country would be paying its 1991 contribution very shortly.
44.3 Many delegates complimented the Secretariat on a document they considered to be very good and  comprehensive, particularly in view of the short time that had been available to prepare the addenda to it  following the discussions during the 137th session of the Executive Board. It was generally agreed that the  collection of contributions was now one of the major problems for the Organization and that it was the duty of  all Member States to pay promptly in accordance with the Financial Regulations, which stipulate that payment  should be made within 30 days of receiving the assessment request or by 1 January, whichever is the later.  Delegates acknowledged that the Director-General had done everything that was administratively feasible to  obtain payments and stated that it was therefore a problem for Member States to address.
44.4 During the debate that followed, most delegates supported the continuation of the incentive scheme to  induce prompt payment of contributions.
44.5 As you will recall, the General Conference at its first plenary meeting referred to the Administrative  Commission the item relating to the conditions under which voting rights could be granted at future sessions of  the General Conference. Several delegates considered that there should be stricter application of the  constitutional provisions on voting rights and one suggested that such provisions might even be modified to  link, for example, voting at the Executive Board with payment. The Executive Board's recommendation to  grant voting rights only to those Member States which are unable to pay due to exceptional circumstances and  which have proposed definite payment plans for settlement of their arrears was accepted and incorporated in  the resolution on this item.
446 Most members supported some increase in the Working Capital Fund even if this did not constitute a  significant answer to the cash flow problems of the Organization. One delegate strongly opposed any increase  in the Working Capital Fund.
44.7 Most delegates opposed the suspension of the Financial Regulations so that estimated miscellaneous  income of some US $12.5 million could be set aside as parallel working capital instead of being deducted from  assessed contributions.
44.8  Several delegates considered that expenditure should in some way be aligned with actual income. On  the other hand very few supported the idea of a planned contingency margin that would involve a first and  second set of priorities in programme planning. It was agreed that the Director-General should request  Member States to inform him of their payment intentions and take these into account in the management of the  treasury function.
449 The subject of borrowing authority gave rise to a wide-ranging and comprehensive debate. Most  delegates supported authorizing the Director-General to contract short-term loans in case of need, without a  ceiling, but some were either against giving this authority at all or considered that a ceiling should be set on it.  Many speakers were opposed to using a borrowing facility to cover unforeseen and extraordinary expenditures  over and above amounts budgeted, as they considered that this should be covered by supplementary estimates as  authorized under Article 3.9 of the Financial Regulations. The representative of the Director-General reminded  the Commission that, although the Executive Board could provisionally approve supplementary estimates, only  the General Conference could authorize the assessment of supplementary contributions. Consequently it might  be necessary to borrow for this purpose to avoid convening an extraordinary session of the General Conference.
44.10 Referring to a previous occasion when UNESCO needed to borrow funds, one delegate proposed that  the Director-General's authority should be limited to the contracting of intérest-free loans. This proposal led to  some discussion during which most delegates considered such a restriction impractical. It was decided that the  Director-General should contract loans on the most favourable terms possible.
44.11 Several delegates, whose governments had paid their contributions on time, stated that they would not  accept responsibility for any loans or for the payment of any part of the interest and cost of such loans. Several  other delegates felt that such costs should be borne by all Member States. On the proposal of one delegate,  seconded by several others, an amendment was introduced into the resolution to the effect that interest costs  should be shared by Member States with arrears of contributions. The Director-General was invited to propose  modalities of application for approval by the Executive Board at its 139th session. Many delegates urged that  attenuation measures be introduced for Member States with exceptional difficulties and asked the Director-  General to propose such measures to ensure a fair and equitable distribution.
44.12 During the adoption of the report, two alternative proposals were introduced, one by Chile and Brazil  and the other by Germany. A working group was constituted under the chairmanship of Chile, with the  participation of Germany, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Spain, Denmark, France, Japan, Madagascar,  Mauritania, Mozambique, Paraguay, Suriname, the USSR and Venezuela. The working group drew up a  consensus text which was adopted unanimously by the Commission. This text, appearing under section (I) of  document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr., replaced the original text which appeared in subparagraphs 11 and 12 of  paragraph 63 of document 26 C/143. Let me stress that I added China to the list of participants in the working  group. China is not mentioned in the documents before us, but will be mentioned in the final version of the  General Conference records.
44.13 During the meeting of the working group, concern was expressed about the cash situation of the  Organization resulting from delays in the payment of contributions. It was reiterated that those Member States  that paid assessed contributions in time should not be held responsible for this situation. It was also recognized  that adequate consideration should be given to Member States in arrears due to economic and financial  difficulties beyond their control. These points have been highlighted by me at the request of the working group.
44.14 Mr President, with this I close my presentation of the item on the collection of contributions. I must  apologize for the length of my statement, but I consider that it is justified, given the importance of the subject.
44.15 The recommendations of the Commission proposed for adoption by the General Conference appear in  paragraph 63 of document 26 C/143, amended by sections (I) and (J) of document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr.  The reservations expressed by certain delegates with regard to subparagraphs 10 and 13 of the resolution may  be found in the revised version of paragraph 64 in section (K) of document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Are there any comments or objections? The delegate of Iraq has asked for the  floor.
24   Habel) sana wud! 0  oA Vyaasol Sy 41/3 4455 Je dead) Gash Jai Oa Guests HEH Galas Ÿ Gad pualol) saad! S28  pans! e131 pals at Vi GLASS Guladl pal Lelia Unasl of Goan AIS Balad ly Rail lias] pans olay  [SSI pis pb epi ad) Jaall ony Oa 3h Glosdl oF I satay Sisal] Gals il] asad (ais  Haas Fal Guan Ji Ge all GIT ay pad) od Tad gpiad) Batlge of ells pale 323 Ÿ QL  ia ye hall mis east GAY pula of Ge pel Sans J153 Ÿ 5 a Lil gai oF LS isa ls Uys wide  paki LSI Gal] pales clint pe casses Lllgal sans JI53Y Il Lelinald Jol) oF 5) assy anand]  LUI Ta3¥ Ge AAA db ded JS Land paluddy Jo Styl) (J LS IS EN sassy SIL ple)  LIU Labial) liam oud sobday US (goionns sSanisnl) pe Logs Glalad ail gS gulf ie las all  ÉSlanLue is Ge Juadl Gans Sal p psg gun SU plan gf Ce Bade (GR VS Gulall i Gia 15 Gadd]  rs Lubin Glas pias Vy ph of pablus Al) Jp dl oo FRA JI Bey LOL 55leas CL  sla wad 5 Loy) Vall) Lili of badls of ciwsll gay Lali Gp 76 Ce Ala all Jad ells  daly Lhaad ales AVY ale 30l Gan Gauss le clan oF sSadgall aw GL 3 af Las EY  ce oly bin Cb Galas) LAS) aby) oda Laie WAV ale ell HIS) 5 0 pale Goodie  Layla lade La y Baad doa BU Gay oad paid à SIU alla] Ga (goal Jud pa pals oT Glad) Gis  Mall Ga AS GEST a Suns pl] Glas (aliens Ad 3G Slade oly MAL 5 VV ale ay Le SY 95 cada  cailas Lod lis J) Glad) pad a 236 Laie Su pd] Lines oF Salas od Gly dass Bade aa si (3)  OSa pd 131 Lae (gud pe Joli a Tle ain le ly pond] CSSS a LUS 5 utie Laelia Jys ell ge  HAS Su pi J Il ASE gga VS gd 2885 J) Ldle 300i) Lee luall Jol) pany Hubs of Lady Jo LiSes  pal Jas asm oad dle Ga lis Ga SN I asad] ANS as Si sd! lads Si Ce Vs Waa bl Oa  Tusa VEY/pYV Libdl (pa VE LER Lb 3usl sll (0A Jal Lsauaty Lis gp (ins cals JI) Glad!  oust A (gaan 1 HSA Co gay
(46.1) M. HAIDAR (Irak) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous ne sommes pas contre la résolution et les amendements apportés  par le Groupe de travail, bien au contraire, mais qu'il nous soit permis de faire quelques remarques, certaines  générales et d'autres plus spécifiques, que nous avons d'ailleurs déjà formulées devant le Conseil exécutif. En  premier lieu, nous sommes préoccupés par la situation financière difficile que connaît actuellement l'UNESCO. Il  y a lieu de noter que l'Irak fait partie des pays qui ont été en retard dans le versement de leurs contributions, pour  des raisons que nul n'ignore, à savoir que ses revenus pétroliers sont toujours sous la tutelle internationale du  Conseil de sécurité, lequel est aujourd'hui dominé par une seule puissance, et que ses fonds à l'étranger  demeurent gelés bien que le Conseil de sécurité ait recommandé de mettre fin à cette forme d'embargo. Nous  souhaitons que les pays industriels qui continuent de geler nos fonds se conforment aux recommandations du  Conseil de sécurité afin que nous puissions nourrir nos enfants, honorer nos engagements financiers à l'égard de  l'UNESCO, voire contribuer de manière concrète à atténuer la crise financière que connaît l'Organisation. Nos  relations avec l'UNESCO se sont toujours situées au niveau de la culture et de la civilisation, et n'ont jamais été  soumises au critère étroit de l'intérêt financier. Au Conseil exécutif, nous avons vivement mis en garde contre  toute tentative de politisation de la question du retard que certains pays mettent à verser leurs contributions pour  des raisons indépendantes de leur volonté, et nous avons demandé qu'une distinction soit faite entre les pays qui  sont capables de payer et ne le font pas pour des raisons politiques, et les pays qui sont victimes de circonstances  particulières. Malheureusement, force est de constater que lors des débats de la Commission administrative, il y a  eu des tentatives flagrantes de politisation de cette question, qu'il faut traiter de manière impartiale.
(46.2) En second lieu, je voudrais rappeler qu'en 1976 l'UNESCO a obtenu des prêts sans intérêt d'un montant  de plus de 21 millions de dollars, lorsque les Etats-Unis ont gelé leurs contributions pour des raisons politiques.  L'Irak s'honore d'avoir alors, avec d'autres pays du tiers monde, accordé à l'UNESCO des prêts sans intérêt. Entre
1976 et 1980, l'Irak a prêté 4 millions de dollars, et les intérêts correspondants auxquels nous avons renoncé  représentent bien plus que ce que nous devons verser. Nous nous félicitons d'avoir soutenu l'UNESCO au moment  où elle en avait le plus besoin, ce que des pays industriels qui en ont les moyens n'ont pas fait, et ne font toujours  pas aujourd'hui. Etant donné ce précédent, je me demande, comme d'autres, s'il ne serait pas possible, voire  nécessaire, que certains industriels qui ont les moyens financiers de le faire accordent des prêts sans intérêt à  l'UNESCO afin d'atténuer ses difficultés et de lui éviter de devoir recourir constamment à des prêts à des taux  d'intérêt élevés. Pour conclure, je voudrais ajouter le nom de l'Irak à ceux de la Mauritanie, du Nigéria et des  autres pays qui ont formulé les réserves énoncées au paragraphe 64 du document 36 C/143 Add. et Corr. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
47.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your comments will be recorded and your country's name added to the list, as you request.
47.2 If there are no objections, I shall now consider the draft resolutions contained in paragraph 63 of  document 26 C/143, amended by document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr., as adopted.
47.3 It is so decided.
47.4 The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
48.1 Mr SIZOO (Netherlands):  Thank you, Mr President. Now that the General Conference has adopted the resolutions contained in  paragraph 63, I must comply with the instructions from my government to explain our position in general on  the authority to be given, or not to be given, lo organizations within the United Nations system to borrow, to  contract short-term loans.
48.2 It is the general policy of the Netherlands not to authorize organizations within the system to contract  short-term loans, because we believe that the expenditure of the United Nations organizations, and that of  course includes UNESCO, should be geared to actually available financial funds, or to funds that could become  available at short notice.
48.3 I must consequently express our serious misgivings with regard to paragraph 10 of resolution (A)  under paragraph 63, and wish to go officially on record as stating that paragraph 10, and also paragraphs 11  and 12, but especially 10, are contrary to our policy, the policy of the Netherlands. Thank you.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your position will be recorded. I now give the floor to the delegate of Spain.
(50) M. RAMALLO (Espagne) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. L'Espagne s'est associée à l'adoption par consensus de la résolution  relative au point 9.6. Nous avons participé aux débats de la Commission administrative et fait partie du groupe de  travail si expertement présidé par le Chili. Toutefois, nous souhaitons qu'il soit pris acte officiellement de la  déclaration suivante concernant le point 9.6 de l'ordre du jour : l'Espagne espère que la résolution adoptée sur le  point 9.6 "Recouvrement des contributions des Etats membres” n'empêchera pas le Conseil exécutif et le  Secrétariat de proposer à la Conférence générale, lors de sa prochaine session, de se prononcer pour l'adoption  d'une procédure qui, partant du principe qu'acquitter leurs contributions en temps voulu est pour les Etats  membres une obligation, définirait de quelle façon tout Etat qui retarderait délibérément le paiement de sa  contribution annuelle devrait prendre à sa charge également la part correspondante des intérêts dus par  l'Organisation dans son ensemble au titre des emprunts qu'elle se verrait contrainte de contracter, sous peine de  devoir interrompre ses activités. Cette procédure contribuerait à une meilleure réalisation des objectifs de  l'Organisation, au bénéfice de tous les Etats membres, et en particulier des moins avancés d'entre eux, qui  risquent de pâtir au premier chef des difficultés économiques de l'UNESCO. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
51. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your comments will be recorded. I now give the floor to the delegate of Germany.
52. M. BAUMGARTNER (Allemagne) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. L'Allemagne partage l'opinion des Pays-Bas et nous appuyons cette  déclaration. Ce faisant, nous voulons surtout souligner que la situation financière de l'Organisation, due au  non-paiement des contributions des Etats membres, devrait être améliorée d'une manière significative afin de  permettre au Directeur général de poursuivre l'exécution du programme sans devoir recourir à des emprunts.  Merci.
53. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now the delegate of Mauritania has the floor.
54. M. OULD DEIDA (Mauritanie) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je tiens pour ma part à expliquer la nature des réserves que  nous avons faites, uniquement à l'égard du paragraphe 13 de cette résolution, parce que nous sommes  totalement d'accord avec ce qui a été dit par l'Espagne, par les Pays-Bas et par l'Allemagne, notamment sur le  fond, c'est-à-dire sur le respect de nos obligations vis-à-vis de l'Organisation. Nous voulions tout simplement  rappeler que les raisons qui ont amené l'UNESCO à contracter des prêts ne proviennent probablement pas, à  très long terme, d'un défaut de paiement des contributions de la part des petits Etats et que ce paragraphe 13  met pratiquement tous les Etats sur le même plan. Les prêts contractés viennent des retards de paiement de  certains grands contributeurs alors que le paragraphe 13 ne pénalise en fait que les petits pays qui ont des  problèmes, parfois exceptionnels, pour lesquels pourrait être invoqué l'article IV.C de l'Acte constitutif. Voilà,  Monsieur le Président, la raison qui a amené mon pays à faire des réserves sur ce paragraphe en particulier.  Merci.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
56.1 Mr AKIMOTO (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to associate my delegation with the statements by the delegates  of the Netherlands and of Germany. Today, the delay in payment or non-payment of contributions by Member  States is a common problem for all organizations of the United Nations family, and the issue is becoming more  and more serious, year after year, as the accumulated amount of non-payment has grown.
56.2 I believe that there are a lot of causes for this state of affairs. In the course of the last session of the  Executive Board, Mr Muheim explained that there were three; to my own mind, the question must be discussed,  not as a financial but as a political one; and it is time for all the organizations of the United Nations family,  either through ACC or some other mechanism, to consult on the matter.
56.3 The Secretary-General of the United Nations, several weeks ago, explained that three quarters of the  Member States are not paying their contributions to the United Nations, despite its improved performance. A  lot of sacrifices have been made and the United Nations has introduced a series of economic measures, but in  spite of that the organizations are facing greater and greater difficulties in meeting the increasing demand for  peace-making and peace-keeping operations, and their financial situation has not improved. Let me repeat, this  difficulty is common to all United Nations organizations, including our own: I think it is time for this question  to be discussed from a political, and not merely from an administrative and financial, point of view. Thank you,  Mr President.
57. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Ambassador Akimoto. The views of Japan will be recorded in our proceedings. The delegate of  Ukraine now has the floor.
58. I'-u BOPOBHK (Yxpauna):  Bnaropgapio Bac, yBaxkaeMBbIH lOCIOJHH IMpencegaTrens, Mbl 6bI XOTeAM, YTOÔbI B YHCHE FOCYJAPCTB,  KOTOPhIE BbICKA3a/1H CBOH OFOBOPKH B OTHOINI€HHH I[YHKTOB 11 u 12 npoekTa pesonroux (A), burypuposau  H HAllla nenerains. Mpl aKTHBHO BbICTYIIAJIH NO 3TOMY IOBOAy. Bnarogapio Bac.
(58) M. BOROVIK (Ukraine) (traduit du russe) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Nous souhaiterions que notre délégation figure aussi au  nombre des Etats ayant formulé des réserves sur les paragraphes 11 et 12 du projet de résolution (A). Nous  sommes intervenus activement à ce sujet. Je vous remercie.
59.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We have noted your request.  Item 9.7 - Working Capital Fund: level and administration (26 C/58)
59.2 I now invite Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
60.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Under this item, the Commission considered document 26 C/58. Part I of  the document, concerning the level and administration of the Working Capital Fund, was divided into five  sections. The first three sections dealt with the objectives of the Fund, the actual use of the Fund during the  current biennium, and its proposed use during 1992-1993. The fourth section, on the proposed level of the Fund  for 1992-1993, included comparative analysis with other United Nations agencies, and provided justifications  for the proposed increase of the level by $2.2 million to $17.2 million. The fifth section dealt with the currency  clement of the Fund.
60.2 In-depth discussions on this subject had already taken place under item 9.6, 'Collection of Member  States' contributions’. During the debate, there was general consensus that the Working Capital Fund should be  denominated as a dollar figure that would be reviewed at every General Conference rather than as a percentage  of the approved budget, and most delegates supported the increase in its level to US $17,200,000 for 1992-
60.3 The proposed resolution on Part II of the document, which concerned the continued operation of the  facility established to assist Member States in acquiring UNESCO Coupons for educational and scientific  material necessary for technological development, was accepted after clarification concerning the condition that  Member States should propose to use national currencies to settle arrears of assessed contributions before  requesting allocations for the purchase of Coupons in national currencies.
60.4 The resolutions recommended by the Commission for adoption by the General Conference appear in  paragraph 67, and a reservation thereon in paragraph 68.
61.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the two draft resolutions in paragraph 67 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
61.2 — It1s so decided.  Item 9.8 - Incentive scheme to induce the prompt payment of contributions (26 C/59)
61.3 Let me now ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendations thereon.
62.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr President. Under this item, the Commission considered document 26 C/59 concerning  the incentive scheme for prompt payment of contributions.
62.2 During the discussions, delegates supported the continuation of the incentive scheme, believing it  appropriate that Member States which paid their contributions on time should have some benefit. One delegate  supported the Director-General's suggestion that payments under the ‘scheme should be contingent upon the  prior existence of a cash surplus, as was the practice in several other United Nations organizations, but many  other delegates considered that it would not be fair to penalize those Member States which paid on time.
62.3 In response to the question as to how much interest had been distributed under this scheme and to how  many Member States during the previous biennium, the representative of the Director-General informed the  Commission that US $3,700,000 had been distributed: US $1,500,000 in 1988 to 63 qualifying Member States  and US $2,200,000 in 1989 to 70 qualifying Member States.
62.4 The resolution recommended by the Commission for adoption by the General Conference appears in  paragraph 71 of document 26 C/143.
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 71 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
63.2  Itis so decided.  ITEM 10 - STAFF QUESTIONS  Item 10.1 - Staff Regulations and Staff Rules (26 C/62, 26 C/62 Add.)
63.3 We now turn to staff questions, the first of which relates to the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, and I  call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the Commission's  recommendations thereon.
64.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, prior to the discussion of items 10.1 to 10.6 concerning staff questions, the Presidents of  the UNESCO Staff Association (STA) and the International Staff Association of UNESCO (ISAU) made  statements on behalf of their respective associations. The STA representative expressed the concern of the  Association on subjects relating to personnel policy, the staffing table, the situation of field staff, and the post of  the Mediator. The ISAU representative expressed the Association's views on the items in the agenda on the  Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, staff salaries, allowances and other benefits, geographical distribution and  the Medical Benefits Fund.
64,2 Now I turn to item 10.1. In document 26 C/62, the Director-General submitted to the General  Conference an amendment to Staff Regulation 9.5 designed to increase from 60 to 62 years the mandatory age  of retirement of staff members who entered or may enter into the service of the Secretariat on or after 1 January
1990, as the case may be. The objective of the proposed amendment was to harmonize Staff Regulation 9.5 with  a decision taken by the United Nations General Assembly at its 44th session in 1989 to the effect that, for  common system staff members who became or would become participants in the United Nations Joint Staff  Pension Fund on or after 1 January 1990, the normal retirement age would be 62 years instead of 60 years as  was previously the case.
64.3 In document 26 C/62 Add. the Director-General reported that, in pursuance of the authority conferred  on him by the Staff Regulations of the Organization, he had approved and issued the 1991 edition of the  booklet entitled ‘Staff Regulations and Staff Rules’. The Commission took note of this report.
644 The Commission was also informed that the Director-General had approved, with effect from 1  October 1991, a new set of Staff Rules for the recruitment of specialists for a fixed-term, non-renewable,  maximum period of three years.
64.5 In reply to questions on this issue, the Commission was informed that the discretionary authority to  extend appointments beyond the normal statutory retirement age was already included in the Staff Regulations  and Staff Rules, and that, in practice, its application had not raised any particular problems.
64.6 While the general opinion within the Commission was that the discretionary authority given to the  Director-General by Staff Regulation 9.5 to extend appointments of staff members beyond the ages of 60 or 62,  as the case may be, was necessary, it was felt equally useful for the Director-General to lay down some  guidelines regarding the exercise of that discretion.
64.7 Following consideration of this item, it was agreed, on the Chairman's proposal, to combine the draft  resolutions contained in paragraphs 5 and 3 respectively of documents 26 C/62 and 26 C/62 Add. The merged  draft resolution, as proposed for adoption by the General Conference, 1s contained in paragraph 74 of document
65.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, J shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 74 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
65.2 It is so decided.  Item 10.2 - Staff salaries. allowances and other benefits (26 C/63)
65.3 I now invite Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendation thereon.
66.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, the Commission considered document 26 C/63, in which the Director-General reported  on the implementation of resolutions 39.1 and 39.2 - adopted by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth  session - relating to staff salaries, allowances and other benefits. It was indicated that, in conformity with the  relevant enabling resolutions of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference, the Director-General was  already applying to UNESCO staff the measures approved by the United Nations General Assembly or by the  International Civil Service Commission, since that session of the Conference.
66.2 The Secretariat pointed out that in accepting the Statute of ICSC, UNESCO had formally adhered to  the United Nations common system of salaries, allowances and other conditions of service. To that extent and  so long as UNESCO remained part of that system, it was only appropriate that the Organization apply to its  staff measures approved by the United Nations General Assembly or ICSC. It was also explained that ICSC and  the General Assembly always considered the financial implications for the common system as a whole before  approving any changes in the conditions of service of the staff of the organizations participating in the system.
66.3 At the conclusion of its discussion of the item, the Commission agreed to recommend for adoption by  the General Conference the draft resolution contained in paragraph 78 of document 26 C/143.
67.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Are there any objections? I see none. May I therefore consider the draft resolution  contained in paragraph 78 of document 26 C/143 as adopted?
67.2 It is so decided.                     Item 10.3 - Geographical distribution of the staff, à ementation © : d18 J LI d  plan (1990-1995) for the recruitment and renewal of the staff (26 C/65, 26 C/ADM/DR.2)
67.3 I now ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendation thereon.
68.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, under this item the Commission considered documents 26 C/65 and 26 C/ADM/DR 2.
68.2 The first document (26 C/65) concerned the report on trends in the geographical distribution of the  staff at 1 July 1991 and on progress achieved in the implementation of the recruitment plan for 1990-1995. The  second document (26 C/ADM/DR.2) was a draft resolution presented by the USSR regarding improvements in  the personnel policy of UNESCO.
68.3 During the debate, the delegates expressed their wish to see more tangible progress in improving the  geographical distribution of the Secretariat staff.
684 Draft resolution 26 C/ADM/DR.2 was discussed at length and certain amendments were incorporated  into it. The resolution, as amended, appears in paragraph 81 of the report, together with another resolution  taking note of the contents of document 26 C/65, which I now submit for adoption by the General Conference.
69.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolutions contained in paragraph 81  of document 26 C/143 as adopted.
69.2 It is so decided.  Item 10.4 - United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund: Report by the Director-General (26 C/66)
69.3 I now ask Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendation thereon.
70.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, document 26 C/66, presented to the General Conference for information, contained the  Director-General's periodic report on the main developments relating to the pension system since the twenty-  fifth session of the General Conference, particularly the salient points of relevant decisions taken by the United  Nations General Assembly at its forty-fourth and forty-fifth sessions (December 1989 and December 1990  respectively), and the recent recommendations of the forty-third session (held at UNESCO Headquarters in  Paris from 16 to 25 July 1991) of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board.
70.2 Since no draft resolution was proposed under this item, the Commission took note without debate of  the contents of document 26 C/66 and decided to transmit it to the General Conference for information.
71.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider that the General Conference takes note of  paragraph 83 of document 26 C/143.
71.2  Itis so decided.     Item 10.5 - UNI [J Sta
71.3 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendation thereon.
72.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, in accordance with Article 6(c) of the Regulations of the United Nations Joint Staff  Pension Fund, the General Conference is required to appoint its representatives, consisting of three members  and three alternates, to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for the period 1 January 1992 to 31 December
72.2 — After consultations among the various regional groups, the Commission unanimously decided to  recommend to the General Conference to appoint the representatives of the following six Member States to the  UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for the years 1992-1993: as members - Belarus, Gabon and India; as  alternates - Costa Rica, Italy and Mauritania.
72.3 The resolution contained in paragraph 85 of document 26 C/143 is accordingly proposed for adoption  by the General Conference.
73.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 85 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
73.2 It is so decided.  Item 10.6 - f the Medical Benefits Fund: Repor Director-General (26 C/68, 26 C/68 Add.,
26 C/68 Corr.)
73.3 I now invite Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on this item and to introduce the  Commission's recommendation thereon.
74.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, document 26 C/68 and Add. and Corr. were submitted in pursuance of
25 C/Resolution 42, paragraph 3, which requested the Director-General to study the possible participation of
754   Member States in the Board of Management of the Medical Benefits Fund and long-term measures to maintain  the financial equilibrium of the Fund, and to make proposals thereon to the General Conference at its twenty-  sixth session.
74.2 All the delegates who spoke on the item expressed their appreciation of the management of the  Medical Benefits Fund since the previous session of the Conference and noted with satisfaction the good results  obtained in the operation of the Fund ($1.2 million surplus in 1990 as against deficits in 1988 and 1989).
74.3 With regard to the possible participation of Member States in the Board of Management of the Fund,  the Commission was unable to reach a consensus on this issue. On the one hand, a number of delegates agreed  with the Director-General's proposals that the present bipartite composition of the Board (administration and  staff) should be maintained. In their opinion, the inclusion of Member States in the Board would be a radical  departure from the prevailing practice in the United Nations system, would interfere with the Director-  General's overall personnel policy, and would be a potential source of conflict in responsibility and delegated  authority under the Staff Regulations. On the other hand, a number of other delegates felt that, since the  contributions to the Medical Benefits Fund were paid in equal shares by the participants and the Organization,  Member States should be represented on the Board of Management. Some delegates were not happy at the  prospect of Member States being involved in the management and setting up of mechanisms that might affect  efficiency and increase costs.
74.4 Other observations made by delegates included the need to discuss further the form the representation  of Member States should take, whether or not they should have voting or observer status, etc.
74.5 After a wide-ranging discussion, the Commission decided to invite the Director-General to present to  the 139th session of the Executive Board proposals on the composition of the Board of Management to include  representatives of Member States.
74.6 Concerning long-term measures to restore the financial equilibrium of the Fund, the Chairman of the  Board of Management of the Fund gave the Commission a brief résumé of the Director-General's proposals,  which were presented as a package of cost-containment and increased funding.
74.7 It was emphasized that the measures proposed had been carefully negotiated with all parties concerned  (staff associations, administration, active and retired staff members).
74.8 It was also underlined that the study of the long-term financial equilibrium of the Fund must take into  account the increasing proportion of retired staff in relation to active staff members.
74.9 In this connection, there was no support for commercial underwriting of the health insurance benefits  as a possible solution for the long-term financial stability of the Fund. Some delegations pointed out that  UNESCO's scheme was the least costly to Member States in the United Nations system, as revealed by a study  on comparative costs carried out in 1989.
74.10 At the conclusion of the debate, the Commission decided to recommend to the General Conference the  adoption of the resolution appearing in paragraph 88 of document 26 C/143.
74.11 Observations made on this item by certain delegates are mentioned in paragraph 89 of document
26 C/143, and have been revised in section (L) of document 26 C/143 Add. and Corr.
74.12 I now submit the resolution appearing in paragraph 88 of document 26 C/143 for adoption by the  General Conference.
75.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the resolution contained in paragraph 88 of  document 26 C/143 to be adopted.
75,2 It is so decided.
75.3 The delegate of Spain has asked for the floor.
(76) M. RAMALLO (Espagne) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais seulement, dans la ligne de ce que mon pays a déjà  exprimé en diverses occasions, lorsqu'on a débattu du point 10.6, préciser que s'il s'est associé au consensus relatif  à la résolution figurant au paragraphe 88 du rapport, cela ne signifie pas qu'il soit d'ores et déjà disposé à  approuver le principe de l'entrée de représentants des Etats membres au Conseil de gestion de la Caisse. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
77.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your reservations will be recorded. We have now completed the items related to staff  questions.  ITEM 11 - HEADQUARTERS QUESTIONS  Item 11.1 - CC Hien “| ildi DS di d J COISC  rk: R Dir -Gen (26 C/70)  Item 11.2 - Report by the Headquarters Commitice (26 C/71)  Item 11.3 - Mandate of the Headquarters Committee (26 C/72)
772 I now call on Mr Guruge to present the report of the Commission on the items dealing with  Headquarters questions, and its recommendations thereon.
78.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, the Commission examined these three items together, taking into account their  complementary character. Before the opening of the discussion, the Commission heard Ambassador Musa Bin  Jaafar Bin Hassan, Chairman of the Headquarters Committee, who presented the Committee's report (26 C/71).
78.2 While welcoming the progress achieved in this respect during the last two years, as well as the fruitful  co-operation between the Committee and the Secretariat, the Chairman of the Headquarters Committee  underlined certain areas in which improvements could be obtained, for example the mail service between  Miollis and Fontenoy, the functioning of the Miollis lifts, and the cleaning services.
78.3 A number of delegates emphasized the need to reinforce the upkeep of the Headquarters buildings and  plant and to devote sufficient funds to that effect.
78.4 In this connection, the need for preparing a long-term capital outlays plan as well as the necessity to  make a clear distinction between capital and recurrent expenditures were pointed out. The postponement of  some essential work was also mentioned.
78.5 In the light of its debate on this item, the Commission reiterated the need for the preparation of a plan  and time-schedule for conservation and major repairs, and expressed the view that the Headquarters Committee  should play a crucial role in the elaboration and implementation of such a plan.
78.6 The Commission agreed that the role and competence of the Headquarters Committee should be  reinforced and that it should monitor more closely all questions reldting to the Headquarters buildings and  premises. In this connection, some delegates felt that the governing bodies should be more regularly made  aware of difficulties which deserved their special attention.
78.7 Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the election of the 25 members of the Headquarters Committee  took place on 31 October 1991, and the new Committee will be able to commence its work shortly after the end  of the General Conference.
78.8 At the end of the debate, the Commission examined and approved with slight modifications a  consolidated resolution which took into account the discussions in the Commission, as well as the draft  resolutions contained in documents 26 C/70 and 26 C/71.
78.9 — The consolidated resolution recommended by the Commission for adoption by the General Conference  appears in paragraph 92 of document 26 C/143.
79.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, I shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 92 of  document 26 C/143 as adopted.
79.2 It is so decided.
79.3 Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the report of the Administrative Commission on specific items. I  shall now give the floor to the Chairman of the Commission for any concluding remarks.
80.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr President, please permit me to conclude my presentation with a few words of grateful thanks to all  those who contributed to the fruitful conclusion of the deliberations of the Administrative Commission, First on  my list are the delegates of Member States who gave the Commission the benefit of their technical expertise  and professional competence and co-operated with me in keeping to a tight time schedule and an exacting  rigour and discipline in debate and decision-making.
80.2 Mr Director-General, our work would not have been so orderly and purposeful without the excellent  documentation which proved to be as concise as it was relevant and comprehensive. Our thanks go to you and  the Secretariat for a job well done. Equally helpful to us were the extensive technical treatment of all issues at  the level of the Finance and Administrative Commission, whose Chairman I shall not name, and the clear and  unequivocal recommendations that came from the Executive Board. I take this opportunity to express my  admiration of the able leadership of its Chairman, H.E. Ambassador Yahya Aliyu. I am equally grateful to  H.E. Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan, Chairman of the Headquarters Committee, for his guidance and valuable  suggestions.
80.3 Mr President, my Commission would never have progressed as it did without the indispensable  assistance the Commission in general, and its Chairman in particular, received from the representative of the  Director-General, Mr CL. Sharma, Deputy Director-General for Management. His candour and openness  matched his wise and practical attitude to problem-solving. The manner in which he orchestrated the technical  contributions of the Secretariat is, to me, a lesson in effective management. I am equally grateful to Mr Klaus  Hagedorn, Director of the Bureau of the Budget, who seems to possess a thoroughly reliable crystal ball to help  him anticipate and answer all questions the delegates asked on many budgetary and financial matters. Not to be  outdone in a similar performance was the Comptroller, Mr Dan Daly. I am also thankful to the Acting Director  of Personnel, Mr Solomon Hailu. May I also take this opportunity. to thank every head of division, bureau,  service or unit who attended the Commission when items relating to them were taken up. In this category I  have placed Mr Arfwedson, Chairman of the Medical Benefits Fund, Mr D. Janicot, Director CAB, Mr Pio  Rodriguez, Secretary of the General Conference and the Executive Board, Mr Albert Sasson, Director BPE,  Mr Salem Charfi, Assistant Secretary of the General Conference, Mr J.M. Dethoor, Director DIT. I also have a  word of thanks for the Legal Adviser, Mr G. Mpozagara, whose discreet and helpful advice enabled me to solve  a number of knotty problems.
80.4 Now, Mr President, a few words on those who made my task so easy and enjoyable. Foremost among  them is the Rapporteur, H.E. Mr François Nordmann. His co-operation at every level has been invaluable in the  preparation of the report and its adoption by the Commission. I am thankful for another delightful occasion on  which we could work together in unison for the good of this Organization. The next, of course, is the  indefatigable Secretary, Mr Hari Iyer. He is the proverbial slave-driver - by this I mean a ruthlessly efficient  and no-nonsense executive from Kerala, the most literate and educated State of the Indian Ocean. On  occasions, I found myself under his merciless whip, goading me on as much as his colleagues in our little  secretariat. But I am very grateful to him because he urged for nothing but speed, efficiency and accuracy.  Together with him I had the willing services of a band of devoted colleagues whom I shall name even if I do  not elaborate on their individual contributions. They are the loyal and willing Malik Ait Si Selmi, the
24   systematic, punctual and hard-working Alex Pokrovsky, the energetic and pleasant Jorge Sequeira and the well-  organized and efficient Maud Chaverneff, Xuan Vu, Terry McGinnis and Magda Dalal.
80.5 I must also thank Mr Michel Detinho and his Conference assistants without whose help we could not  have successfully functioned.
80.6 Mr President, may I also express my sincere thanks to all those who served us from behind the scenes,  especially the interpreters whose tasks were in no way simple on account of the highly technical nature of our  deliberations and decisions. I am personally grateful to the Chief of the Interpretation Service, Mr Sacha  Andreyev, who was readily available to meet all the demands of our Commission. Last but not least,  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you most sincerely for the confidence you  placed in Sri Lanka when I was elected to be the Chairman of the Administrative Commission and for adopting  the report of the Commission unanimously. Thank you.
81.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Guruge. I think that it is clear to all of us that the confidence we  placed in Sri Lanka and in you in particular was not misplaced. I have attended General Conference sessions  since 1964, and, as far as I know, this is the first time financial questions have been resolved very speedily and  with no rancour at all; ! believe this is due in no small measure to your quality of leadership. In fact, you solved  all the problems in Commission and that is why we have completed our examination of its report in two hours.  On behalf of the General Conference I would like to thank you most sincerely, together with your team.
81.2 Now, ladies and gentlemen, that brings us to the end of today's work. This plenary will meet next on  Wednesday, 6 November 1991; until then, the plenary stands adjourned. Thank you.  La séance est levée à 17 h.30  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 17.30