Vingt et unième séance plénière
31 octobre 1991, à 15 h.10  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Twenty-first plenary meeting
31 okrs6ps 1991 r. B 15.10  Mpeucenaresr: r-1 OroT (Kenus)  SR sas V, V2 PURI IXY COE STACY JOT VA  (LoS) end nl aed: Guat JI  HT —IKEE
689   ELECTION DES MEMBRES DES COMITES DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  POUR LA VINGT-SEPTIEME SESSION ET ELECTION DE MEMBRES D'AUTRES  ORGANES (points 12.2 2 12.14)  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEES OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  FOR THE TWENTY -SEVENTH SESSION AND ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF OTHER  BODIES (items 12.2 to 12.14)  ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LOS COMITES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  EN SU 27* REUNION Y ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE OTROS ORGANOS  (puntos 12.2 a 12.14)  BBIBOPhI WIEHOB KOMHTETOB TEHEPAINbLHOH KOH®EPEHLHH JIS ABAJILATD CEMBMOH  CECCHH, A TAKXE BbIBOPbI “VIEHOB [IPYTUX OPTAHOB (MYHKTbI 12.2 - 12.14 MOBECTKH M[H5)  Crayton] y Laaleadl 35 9ald plaJi Saad] Talal) 550) > Lei Glass  (AY, VE ANT 5e asi) ssl clin pi Lei Galas,  ERASE -TLREUEZRIE AMEE LENA R ORHI2.2--12.14 )
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As there is no quorum I shall apply Rule 69.3 of the Rules of  Procedure, and adjourn the meeting for five minutes, after which, with your consent, we shall take up our  business, with or without a quorum.  (The meeting was adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to consider the report of the Nominations Committee on  items 12.2 to 12.14 of the agenda, which relate to the composition of committees, commissions and other  bodies. Please turn to document 26 C/137 which contains the report of the Nominations Committee on these  items. I now have the pleasure of giving the floor to Ms Rosario Manalo, Chairwoman of the Nominations  Committee.
2.1 Ms MANALO (Philippines), Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. The report of the Nominations Commiitee is contained in document
26 C/137 which you now have before you for consideration. But before turning to the matter in hand, I should  like to express my gratitude on your behalf to all the electoral groups and Member States for their co-operation,  even when certain awkward problems were encountered. I should like to thank them for the patience they  showed during the counting of the votes.
2.2 Mr President, the Committee held its fourth, fifth and sixth meetings respectively on 24, 28, 29 and 30  October 1991, in order to adopt its proposals for the composition of the committees, commissions and other  bodies in accordance with Rule 30, paragraphs 1 and 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
2.3 The Committee considered all the nominations submitted by Member States or electoral groups, and  had at its disposal in that connection documents 26 C/NOM/INF.2 and 26 C/NOM/INF.2 Rev.1 and Rev.2 as  well as 26 C/NOM/3 to 26 C/NOM/15. The debate that took place and the various statements made by  candidate Member States or representatives of the groups showed both the interest taken by Member States in  the activities of the intergovernmental councils and the growing difficulty within some groups in reaching  agreement on submitting a number of candidates equal to that of the seats to be filled. Thus, whereas in the last  session of the General Conference the Committee voted by secret ballot in connection with eight bodies and for  only two electoral groups, this time the Committee voted for nine organs for which with the exception of  Group V(b) all the other groups submitted for one organ or another more candidates than the number of seats to  be filled. This necessitated at times three rounds of elections before arriving at the desired results. Considering  that the election of the Executive Board was seitled in the first round, one is struck by the increased interest for  these committees and commissions.
24 A matter which may be of interest came up during discussion of item 12.11, Intergovernmental  Committee of the World Decade for Cultural Development. It concerns the proposal by Group I to replace Italy,  Portugal and Switzerland, which had resigned from the Committee, by three other members of the group for the  remaining period of office. The proposal generated a lot of discussion on the part of those who thought that  such a procedure might create difficulties in future. In the light of the debate and in the absence of any text
690   dealing with the issue the Committee felt it advisable to draw the attention of the General Conference to the  need to have clearer provisions in future regarding the replacement of resigning members.
2.5 At its sixth extended meeting, the Committee voted by secret ballot for nine bodies with a view to  adopting its proposals concerning the lists of nominations submitted by Electoral Groups 1, II, HI, IV and V(a).  With the exception of Group V(b) all the other groups had submitted more candidates than the number of seats  to be filled in this respect.
2.6 Under item 12.2 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the General  Conference the following composition for the Legal Committee (21 members): Argentina, Benin, Cameroon,  Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan, Jordan,  Italy, Mexico, Spain, Sudan, Switzerland, Tunisia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Venezuela.
2.7 Under item 12.3 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the General  Conference the following composition for the Headquarters Committee (25 members): Argentina, Benin, Chile,  Costa Rica, France, India, Jordan, Malawi, Mali, Myanmar, Namibia, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay,  Poland, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine, Yemen and Zaire.
2.8 Under item 12.4 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for  Groups II, III, IV and V(a), to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to  the ten seats to be filled on the Council of the International Bureau of Education: Burundi, China, Japan,  Jordan, Kenya, Nigeria, Poland, Switzerland, Thailand and Venezuela.
2.9 Under item 12.5 of the agenda, the Committee after taking note of the withdrawal of the nomination of  Mr Elhadj Ali-Bandiare (Niger) decided unanimously to propose that the General Conference should elect the  following four persons to the four seats to be filled on the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission  responsible for seeking the settlement of any disputes that may arise between States Parties to the Convention  against Discrimination in Education: Ms Irene R. Cortes (Philippines), Mr Mamadou Dagra (Niger),  Mr Pierre-Michel Eisemann (France) and Mr Francesco Margiotto Broglio (Italy).
2.10 — Under item 12.6 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for  Groups II, IV and V(a), to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to the
16 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Committee for the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme:  Angola, China, Czechoslovakia, Cuba, Germany, Italy, Kuwait, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Portugal,  Syrian Arab Republic, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Uruguay and Zimbabwe.
2.11 Under item 12.7 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for all  groups except Groups V(a) and V(b), to propose that the General Conference should elect the following  Member States to the 15 seats to be filled on the International Co-ordinating Council of the Programme on Man  and the Biosphere: Argentina, Canada, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Gabon, France, India, Indonesia, Mexico,  Philippines, Poland, Senegal, Spain, United Republic of Tanzania and Uganda.
2.12 Under item 12.8 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for  Groups II, IV and V(a), to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to the
16 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Council for the International Hydrological Programme: Algeria,  Angola, Belgium, Bulgaria, Finland, Germany, Israel, Jamaica, Nepal, Qatar, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,  Uganda, Uruguay, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Zambia.
2.13 Under item 12.9 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for  Groups I and IV to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to the ten  seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its  Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation: Angola, Belize, Greece, Italy, Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya, Namibia, Nepal, Poland, Turkey and the United Republic of Tanzania.
2.14 — Under item 12.10 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously to propose that the General  Conference should elect the following Member States to the 15 seats to be filled on the Executive Committee of  the International Campaign for the Establishment of the Nubia Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of  Egyptian Civilization in Cairo: Argentina, Belgium, Central African Republic, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, El  Salvador, Finland, France, Greece, Guinea, Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan, Portugal, Switzerland and Sudan.
2.15 Under item 12.11 of the agenda, the Committee decided after a vote which proved necessary for  Groups II, III, IV and V(a), to propose that the General Conference should elect the following Member States to  the 19 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental Committee of the World Decade for Cultural Development:  Bulgaria, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Guatemala, India, Japan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mozambique,  Morocco, Nigeria, Norway, Romania, Spain, Sudan, Switzerland, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and  Yemen. Furthermore, as I stated earlier, the Committee also decided to recommend that the General  Conference elect Belgium, Greece and Turkey to replace Italy, Portugal and Switzerland which had resigned  from the Committee.
2.16 Under item 12.12 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the exception of the list  submitted by Electoral Groups III and V(a), for which a vote proved necessary, to propose that the General  Conference should elect the following Member States to the 17 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental  Council of the International Programme for the Development of Communication: Argentina, Bulgaria,  Burundi, Côte d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, France, Germany, Ghana, Italy, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal,  Spain, Suriname, Sweden and Yemen.
2.17 Under item 12.13 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the exception of the list  submitted by Electoral Groups IV and V(a), for which a vote proved necessary, to propose that the General  Conference should elect the following Member States to the 14 seats to be filled on the Intergovernmental  Council of the General Information Programme: Algeria, Chile, China, Congo, Egypt, El Salvador, Guinea,  India, Jamaica, Japan, Portugal, Sierra Leone, Spain and the United Republic of Tanzania.
2.18 Under item 12.14 of the agenda, the Committee decided unanimously, with the exception of the list  submitted by Group V(a), for which a vote proved necessary, to propose to the General Conference the  following composition for the Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (14 members):  Brazil, Canada, Côte d'Ivoire, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Germany, Iceland, Kenya, Myanmar,  Nepal, Nigeria, Norway, Syrian Arab Republic, Spain and Zambia.
2.19 Mr President, those were the recommendations of the Nominations Committee for all the committees,  commissions and other bodies of the General Conference. However, I should not like to finish without paying  tribute to those who complied with my request to serve as tellers, a strenuous task which entailed many hours of  work, sometimes late at night. They were Ms Natalia Martin-Leyes Barvo from the delegation of Colombia,  Ms Azmi Nadra from the delegation of Indonesia, Mr Ali Adam Abdarrahman from the delegation of Chad  and Mr Jacques Boisson, Deputy Permanent Delegate of Monaco. I should also like to thank the Secretariat of  the General Conference, particularly the Secretary of the Committee, Mr Abdelaziz Abid, his colleagues,  Mr Musa Boreh, Ms Marianne Raabe and Mr Paszkowski, the representative of the Legal Adviser, for the hard  work that they did at all our Committee's meetings. Without their assistance, we would have been unable to  accomplish our task. I am particularly grateful to them for their unremitting efforts to assist us in our  proceedings. 1 should also like to thank the team of interpreters and the Conference room staff, who went to  great lengths to make the Committee's task as easy as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee. You have fulfilled your task in an  excellent manner and it is only appropriate that, on behalf of the General Conference as a whole, I should  express our appreciation and gratitude to you and to the members of the Committee. I also wish to thank the  Secretariat members you mentioned for their assistance to the Committee.
3.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us document 26 C/137 concerning the composition of the  different committees, commissions and other bodies as a whole. May I propose that we deal with all these  various bodies together?
33 The Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee has read out the document which is before you. If  there are no objections, questions or requests for clarifications, I shall propose that the General Conference now  adopt the recommendations which it contains.
34 I see no opposition or objection. It is so decided.  (Applause)
35 Once again, Madam Chairwoman, thank you for an excellent job; the applause reflects our gratitude.  LIEU DE LA VINGT-SEPTIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  PLACE OF THE TWENTY-SEVENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  LUGAR DE LA 27* REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  MECTO IPOBEJIEHMS JIBAJIUATEL CEJLMOW CECCHH TEHEPAJILHOH KOH®EPEHLIHH  eladi ad pall Ca ada | y daslutl oud] lias OS  KEE HERE HH
4. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we also have on our agenda this afternoon item 13.1, Place of the twenty-  seventh session of the General Conference’. The Executive Board has deliberated on this and I shall give the  floor to its Chairman, Mr Yahya Aliyu, to report on the item.
5.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Thank you, Mr President. During the recent 137th session, the Executive Board examined the question  of the place of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. The Board was guided by the provisions  of Rules 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. In view of the fact that, within the  time-limit established by Rule 3, no Member State had invited the General Conference to hold its twenty-  seventh session in 1993 in its territory, the Executive Board, in decision 6.3, and I quote: ‘Recommends that the  General Conference hold its twenty-seventh session at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris’. That,  Mr President, is the recommendation of the Board concerning the place of the next session of the Conference.
5.2 May I add that, as to the question of the date of the twenty-seventh session, in conformity with Rule I,  paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Director-General will consult the  Executive Board at one of its forthcoming sessions before fixing the opening date. Thank you, Mr President.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board. Ladies and gentlemen, the document corresponding to  this item is 26 C/113, and the General Conference must now adopt a decision concerning paragraph 6, which  reads as follows:  The General Conference,
1. Having regard to the provisions of Rules 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference,
2. Considering that on the date fixed by Rule 3, no Member State had invited the General  Conference to hold its twenty-seventh session on its territory,
3. Decides to hold its twenty-seventh session at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris.
6.2 Is it your wish to adopt the draft resolution?
6.3 I see no objections. It is so decided. We shall meet again in Paris in 1993.
6.4 That brings us to the end, ladies and gentlemen, of our agenda for this aftemoon. We shall meet again  in plenary on Saturday, 2 November, at 10 a.m. to consider reports from Commission V and the Legal  Committee. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 15 h.45  The meeting rose at 3.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 15.45  BaceaHHe 3aKpbIiBaeTca B 15.45  A) ay V0, £0 Loli! db Tada) mand  & XF 15H} 454} LE