Vingt-septième séance plénière
7 novembre 1991, à 10 h.20  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Twenty-seventh plenary meeting
7 Hox6ps4 1991 r. B 10.20  Ipenceraresb: r-u OroT (Keuns)  (alm Vo, Vo Veluadl NAAN IIS Ca g3/ saad V  (Lag) apd of sul: Gua I  I a RC  ISIELLRT B, 1084204  E OF: BBEEE (FRE)
821   MESSAGE AU GOUVERNEMENT ET AU PEUPLE DES PHILIPPINES APRES LE CYCLONE  QUI A FRAPPE CE PAYS  MESSAGE TO THE GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES FOLLOWING  THE CYCLONE IN THAT COUNTRY  MENSAJE AL GOBIERNO Y AL PUEBLO DE FILIPINAS CON MOTIVO DEL CICLON  CUYOS EFECTOS HA PADECIDO EL PAIS  MOCHAHHE MPABHTENBCTBY H HAPOJLY PHIHIMTHH B CBAI3H C LUMKJIOHOM B DITOH CTPAHE  LIN 13a lal 3) 5 LacŸl das (pans OI Le S a JI Uli) ua 90  FRKAIUE, KUEBFHMAR FEAR
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the twenty-seventh plenary meeting.
1.2 Before moving on to the first item of the agenda this morning, I would like to inform you that, on  behalf of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO, I have sent a telegram of  condolences to the families of the victims of the cyclone that struck the islands of Leyte and Negros in the  Philippines.  VOTE DE LA RESOLUTION PORTANT OUVERTURE DE CREDITS POUR 1992-1993  ADOPTION OF THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1992-1993  APROBACION DE LA RESOLUCION DE CONSIGNACION DE CREDITOS PARA 1992-1993  MPUHSTUE PE3ONIOIHH OF ACCUTHOBAHMSIX HA 1992-1993 IT.  VATA AY ail LIU cs lslaieŸl 3b 5155 Sle cas gui  Hat 1992-—1993FRAKHX
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  The first item before us today is the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 1992-1993. The  relevant document before you is document 26 C/144.
22 You will recall that at the twentieth plenary meeting on Monday, 28 October 1991, the General  Conference adopted a provisional budget ceiling for 1992-1993 of $444,704,000 for Parts I to VIII of the  budget, including the amount of $1,500,000 for the Reserve for Draft Resolutions from Member States. It was  further decided that the final budget ceiling should be fixed by the Joint Meeting of the Programme  Commissions and the Administrative Commission.
2.3 Accordingly, the Joint Meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative  Commission met on Tuesday, 5 November 1991, and considered document 26 C/PRG/ADM.1 relating to the  final budget ceiling and the Appropriation Resolution.
24 I invite Ambassador Guruge, who presided over the Joint Meeting in his capacity as Chairman of the  Administrative Commission, to present to us the results of the Joint Meeting.
3.1 Mr GURUGE (Sri Lanka), Chairman of the Administrative Commission;  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Excellencies, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, this -  is to be my final presentation. Let me therefore thank you and everyone else who enabled me to bring this  important task of reaching a consensus in regard to the budget ceiling and Appropriation Resolution to a  successful close. I do not claim paternity for what I am about to present as our product, because paternity is only  an opinion while maternity is a solid fact. Mr President, collectively the programme commissions and the  Administrative Commission have not only conceived but also laboured, and now I deliver.
3.2 It is a great pleasure and honour for me to present to you the results of the work of the Joint Meeting of  the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission relating to the Draft Appropriation  Resolution for 1992-1993. The report of the meeting is presented to you in document 26 C/144.
3.3 The Joint Meeting examined document 26 C/PRG/ADM.1, which contained five parts and two  annexes: the first part related to the budget ceiling, the second and third to adjustments within tbe budget
822   ceiling and other adjustments respectively, while the fourth and fifth parts related to the form and content of the  Appropriation Resolution itself. Annex I showed the distribution of the Reserve for Draft Resolutions among  the various major programme areas and transverse themes and programmes. Annex II contained the complete  text of the Appropriation Resolution incorporating the revisions concerning the text, and the amounts under  each appropriation line, based on the adjustments mentioned above.
34 During the meeting of the programme commissions and the Administrative Commission, several  delegates raised questions concerning draft resolutions, the financing of budgetary reinforcement for some  programme areas and the treatment of currency fluctuation in document 26 C/5. These questions and the  replies provided thereto are reflected in the report of the Joint Meeting.
3.5 At the end of the consideration of the various issues, the Joint Meeting recommended to the General  Conference the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution which is now reproduced in document 26 C/144. On  behalf of the Joint Meeting I propose it for adoption by the General Conference. Thank you.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for his presentation and I invite the General  Conference to take note of the report of the Joint Meting presented in document 26 C/144.
4.2 If there are no objections, I consider that the General Conference has taken note of this document.
4.3 We are now going to proceed to adopt the Appropriation Resolution for 1992-1993 as submitted to us  by the Joint Meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission and which is set  out in final form in document 26 C/144 (Annex II).
4.4 I propose to you that we adopt the Appropriation Resolution by acclamation. I am assuming silence  means acclamation.  (Applause)
4.5 It is so decided.  POINT 15.7 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR : PROJET DE RESOLUTION RELATIF À UN APPEL  EN FAVEUR DU MEMORIAL GOREE-ALMADIES  ITEM 15.7 OF THE AGENDA: DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING AN APPEAL ON  BEHALF OF THE GOREE-ALMADIES MEMORIAL  PUNTO 15.7 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA: PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION RELATIVO A UN  LLAMAMIENTO EN FA VOR DEL MONUMENTO CONMEMORATIVO GOREA-ALMADIAS  MYHKT 15.7 IIOBECTKH J1HSI: TPOEKT PE3OIOIHH OTHOCHTEJILHO IPH3bIBA K CO3TAHHIO  «MEMOPHAJA TOPE-AJbMA IH»  So Tall — Gad” ad Jai Ce elas Gln S150 6 godin Jane Joa Ca Vo V idl  MEMAIS. I: XT “XTRERT--FRDHESMAMT RDF E
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we can now move on to the second item on our agenda for this morning, that is  item 15.7 - Appeal on behalf of the Gorée-Almadies Memorial, contained in document 26 C/PLEN/DR 4.
5.2 Is it the wish of the General Conference that this appeal be adopted by consensus? I presume that your  silence signifies assent.
53 It is so decided.
54 I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
6. M. DEME (Sénégal) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais au nom de mon pays, le Sénégal, au nom des pays membres  de l'OUA - puisque le projet est également un projet de 'OUA et au nom de la diaspora noire à travers le  monde, je voudrais, disais-je, vous remercier très sincèrement et, par votre intermédiaire, remercier les Etats  membres ici présents et les membres du Conseil exécutif qui, à une ou deux exceptions près, se sont portés
27   coauteurs du projet dont nous sommes saisis ce matin. Je voudrais également remercier tout particulièrement  M. le Directeur général et ses collaborateurs de l'intérêt qu'ils ont manifesté pour ce projet et de la coopération  qu'ils voudront bien apporter à sa réalisation. Encore une fois merci pour tout.  CLOTURE DE LA VINGT-SIXIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  CLOSURE OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  CLAUSURA DE LA 26* REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL
3AKPbITHE JIBAJUATH INECTOH CECCHH TEHEPAINBHOH KOH®EPEHOHH  pled) 50540 Ga pial] dussludl 35 50d) eGSf  KE#04 AM DAT
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Senegal. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, we now move to the next item: the  closing meeting. You have before you document 26 C/PLEN/DR.5, which contains the resolution in tribute to  Mr Yahya Aliyu, Chairman of the Executive Board. This is a unanimous resolution submitted by the General  Committee for the consideration of the General Conference. It expresses the shared sentiments of the General  Committee, our deep gratitude and admiration for the commitment offered by Mr Aliyu to the Executive Board  and this Organization. He has served in many very different capacities and has been always very successful in  leading the Executive Board, sometimes under very difficult circumstances. His charm, wisdom, high ideals  and patience with one and all have always impressed us.
7.2 Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, please accept this tribute from the General Conference and our  deepest gratitude for all you have done for this Organization. We are sure that you will continue, as a very  distinguished member of the international community, to serve the ideals and the purposes of UNESCO. Your  advice and wise counsel will be always sought after by all of us.
7.3 I therefore, submit draft resolution 26 C/PLEN/DR.S to the General Conference for adoption. It reads  as follows:  The General Conference,  Noting that Mr Yahya Aliyu will conclude his term of office as Chairman of the Executive Board at  the end of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference,  Considering that his moderation and sense of dialogue, impartiality and wisdom have permeated the  spirit in which the Executive Board has adopted its decisions during the past biennium,  Considering the equanimity, scrupulous fairness, open-mindedness and unfailing sense of commitment  to the noble aims of UNESCO, all of which he has brought to his high office,  Recognizing the major contribution to the work of the present session of the General Conference  which the Executive Board made under his leadership,  Expresses its deep gratitude to Mr Yahya Aliyu for the distinguished services he has rendered to  UNESCO.  (Applause)
7.4 I take it that the draft resolution is adopted by acclamation.
7.5 Dear friend, thank you once again for all your services. You have the floor.
8.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I  am tempted, Mr President, to follow the good example of President Aristide when he visited us here and put  aside my prepared text and speak to you directly from the heart because, Mr President, distinguished ladies and  gentlemen, this Conference has done me far too much honour for the modest contribution I have made in  chairing the Executive Board over the last two years. I have to give you my prepared text, however, if only
824   because it demonstrates one of the many secrets of my success, namely, that it is not entirely my own work. It is  work that I have done with the aid of my many assistants and I think I owe it to them to read the prepared text.
8.2 Mr President of the General Conference, I should like to express to you, and through you to the  sponsors of the resolution, and in fact to this whole distinguished gathering, my most sincere thanks for the  honour you have so eloquently bestowed on me. Please also accept my profound gratitude and appreciation for  your most spontaneous and warm applause.
8.3 These expressions of appreciation I accept on behalf of all my colleagues on the Executive Board as  well as the members of the Secretariat with whom I have had the privilege of working in the service of our dear  Organization. For without their co-operation, counsel, devotion and help, the responsibilities I was called upon  to assume could have proved too much for me.
8.4 For me and my colleagues on the Board, at least for some of us, this is the moment for farewells. But it  is also the moment for renewal and rejuvenation of the Board. The Constitution of our Organization has wisely  made provision for periodic renewal of the membership of the Board by the retirement of half of the members at  the end of each General Conference while assuring continuity through those who remain.
8.5 Since the last session of the General Conference, the international situation has witnessed a lot of  movements and changes, most of which could not but have serious implications for UNESCO. They have  therefore called for resourcefulness from the Board in dealing with them. These issues and questions, as well as  the circumstances of their emergence, have all pointed to one fact: the necessity for the existence of UNESCO  and the importance of the role it is called upon to play on the international scene. We in the Board are therefore  proud that the General Conference has, through its approval, put its blessings on our action on its behalf,  during this past biennium. In this regard I would like to refer particularly to the Executive Board's  recommendations on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 which, we are gratified to note, have  contributed to facilitating the General Conference's examination and review of that document. Now it will be  the responsibility of the new Board, which will be meeting soon, to ensure the effective and rational  implementation of the approved programme.
8.6 The constitutional amendments concerning the composition of the Board, the resolution concerning  UNESCO's role in intellectual co-operation, the importance given throughout the programme to the  strengthening of UNESCO's catalytic role in many fields, all these will contribute to enable the Organization to  respond to the new dynamic that has manifested itself in our debates. UNESCO's intellectual mission has been  thus solemnly reaffirmed and this is of major importance in a context in which the Organization has to give  answers to many expectations in all its spheres of competence.
8.7 If it is true that some regions of the world have experienced in these last two years historic  transformations, it must not be forgotten that the greater part of humankind continues to suffer from ever-  growing inequalities, injustice, ecological catastrophes, and the overall deterioration of their economies. The  backlog of unresolved problems is daunting and it is clear that euphoria and enthusiasm cannot go very far as  regards finding ways of resolving them. It is only through a thoughtful approach to reflection and action that  we can advance together through the myriad of contradictory processes actually going on in the world at large.
8.8 In making our recommendations on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 we are  particularly concerned that everything should be done to safeguard the specific character of our Organization.  While keeping this in mind, we have encouraged judicious concentration in our programming, promoted due  balance between reflection and action, and stressed the need for the proposed activities to respond to the three  identified target groups, namely, the least developed countries, Member States of the Africa region, and  women. We also drew attention to the importance of UNESCO's co-operation with other agencies of the United  Nations system as well as with other organizations and to the need for the co-ordination of UNESCO's activities  with all of those bodies. We believe that it is only in this way that the limited resources available will be put to  the most efficient use.
8.9 Another important element we underlined was the need to improve the quality of the evaluation of our  programme activities. We feel very strongly that this is an important element in our assessment of the past and  our planning for the future. The Board also stressed the importance of decentralization in its in-depth study on  this issue, and it was clear from the general policy debate that this concern is also shared by Member States.  For an agency of intellectual co-operation such as UNESCO, the process of decentralization cannot, of course,
27   take the same form as in other agencies of the United Nations system. For us, the process must be a continuing  one, carefully thought out and judiciously implemented, for on its success will depend to a great extent the  overall revitalization of UNESCO.
8.10 It must be added that all these aspects, complex though they are, reflect the renewed confidence of the  Member States in UNESCO. Indeed, having survived the debilitating crises of yesteryears, we have before us a  unique opportunity to make UNESCO a leading agency of the United Nations system, in a context in which  reflection cannot be limited to slogans such as ‘change and more change’ but must be focused on the pondered  establishment of clear-cut perspectives in which all Member States can recognize themselves.
8.11 In this sense the question of universality must be raised once again. The quest for universality is not  only a question of membership, heartened as we are by the presence at this session of the four new Member  States, namely Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu, it is also the quest for a common purpose and a common  action that reflect the universal nature of UNESCO's mission itself. As regards this matter the Board made its  point of view clear, that more than any other means, it is through the efficient execution of its programme and  the attainment of the objectives set by the Member States in the General Conference, including the reform of its  structures and working methods, that UNESCO will effectively create the optimum conditions for its  universality. I think that we can all be justly proud of our efforts in this regard.
8.12 I should like now to address the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor. Mr Director-General, allow me  once again to state how much I personally appreciate the manner in which you have always reacted positively to  the Executive Board's unceasing call for dialogue and co-operation as we sought together the best solutions to  the many problems and issues with which we have had to deal over these last two years, I therefore, on my own  behalf and on behalf of the entire membership of the Executive Board, express our thanks and gratitude to you  and to all the members of the Secretariat who have in so many ways contributed to the successful achievement  of our tasks, which is to serve the supreme interest of our Member States.
8.13 1 also wish to add a word of thanks to the host country, France, for the way we have been made  welcome here and particularly for the great importance accorded this Conference by President François  Mitterrand, who found the time to join us at the beginning of this Conference and to offer us his kind words of  encouragement.
8.14 Finally, Mr President, allow me to express my admiration to you for the capable and unflappable  manner in which you have directed the work of this Conference. Our thanks and appreciation go to you for  having conducted our deliberations to such a positive and inspiring conclusion. Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all most  warmly.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Aliyu.
9.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, doubtless the appreciation and gratitude we have expressed to  Mr Aliyu should also be shared by the outgoing Executive Board members who are all very well known to you.
93 I now have the pleasure of inviting Ms Ruth Lerner de Almea, Permanent Delegate of Venezuela to  UNESCO, who will address the General Conference on behalf of the regional groups.
(10.1) Ms LERNER de ALMFA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this new era which we are experiencing in UNESCO, it is a great honour  and privilege for me to have been chosen by my General Committee colleagues to address you on behalf of the  regional groups that make up the Organization which, at this twenty-sixth session of the General Conference, has  been enhanced by the presence of new Member States - the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania,  and Tuvalu. This is indeed a very important contribution to the process of ensuring the Organization's  universality, a process that will culminate, sooner or later, in the return of the United States, the United Kingdom  and Singapore.
(10.2) I believe that I am speaking for all of us in pointing our that this new era has been marked by an active  process of innovation and reform, launched by the Director-General, with the presentation of structural reforms in  the first quarter of 1990, followed by in-depth studies and comments by Member States. The opening up of  dialogue, a feature of the democratic principle, has enabled this process to be carried through satisfactorily.
(10.3) Fundamental reform projects relating to the Organization's present and future functioning were also  submitted by several Member States. All this produced a chain reaction in the process of reflection and action  which found practical expression in the various documents dealing with the reform of the Constitution, the setting  up of a group of experts on financial and administrative matters, the assertion of UNESCO's intellectual role and  the creation of an ad hoc forum of reflection, this latter idea also having been visualized by the Director-General  in introducing his own reform plan.
(10.4) All these measures, which will lead to the more effective functioning of the Executive Board and,  ultimately, contribute to new and constructive inputs for consideration by the General Conference, gave rise to  intense activity among the permanent delegations which make up the various regional groups; they should never  be regarded as a factor of dispersion but, on the contrary, as an invaluable mechanism for action and reflection in  the attainment of a shared ideal.
(10.5) The permanent delegations played an active part in this process. Study commissions were set up in the  regional groups covering UNESCO's various areas of competence. The results of their work were transmitted to  our ‘communicating vessels' in the Member States - the National Commissions for UNESCO. At this point may I  pay a special tribute to the permanent delegations and their members for the constructive work they have carried  out, an effort that must be vigorously pursued in this centre of lifelong education that UNESCO represents. I  should like to point out that the success of the proposed reforms depends to a great extent on observance of the  principles of rotation and geographical balance.
(10.6) The work of the regional groups has also been given a stimulus by the consolidation of democracies in  various parts of the world. We hope that the opening up of West-East relations can be rounded off by the  relaunching of the complementary and indispensable dialogue with the countries of the South.
(10.7) In this connection I should like to make specific reference to the Group of 77 - which I have the honour  of presiding over until the end of this General Conference - by quoting the views of one of its founders, Manuel  Pérez Guerrero, a Venezuelan imbued with a spirit of universality. He stated the following: "Within the Group of
77 there are generally arguments about the subjects under discussion, but sooner or later a consensus is reached.  It can be said that the position adopted by the Group, because of the preparatory work involved, makes it more  difficult at times to reach agreement in United Nations forums. This is, in fact, achieved, but the reason is that  more often than not the distance separating the developed from the developing countries on critical economic  issues is so considerable that a greater demonstration of good faith is demanded from both sides. In actual fact,  when serious discussions between the various groups in the United Nations have been held, it has always been  possible to reach agreement.
(10.8) May I voice the unanimous sentiments of the delegations present at this twenty-sixth session of the  General Conference in expressing our gratitude to the host country, eternal France, for the welcome it has  extended to this Conference, inaugurated in masterly fashion by President François Mitterrand, one of the great  statesmen of our times.
(10.9) On behalf of all the regional groups I should also like to express our gratitude to three great world  teachers, instrumental in developing the work of the Executive Board and of the General Conference. Professor  Aliyu from Nigeria has been Chairman of the Executive Board during the past biennium and is a former President  of the Group of 77. His working method, known as the 'Aliyu style’, is characterized by the ‘three Ps' of prudence,  patience and perseverance in achieving his aims. I should also like to express our gratitude to Professor Ogot from  Kenya for the masterly way in which he has guided the discussions at this twenty-sixth session of the General  Conference and for all that he has taught us in his work of presiding over the General Committee of the General  Conference. Our thanks are also due to the Secretariat and to the technical and administrative staff whose hard  work has contributed so much to the successful conclusion of our task.
(10.10) Finally, may I say how grateful we are to another admirable teacher, Professor Federico Mayor,  Director-General of UNESCO, a man who is open to dialogue and, hence, receptive to criticism which he knows  how to accept and turn to constructive use. He has encouraged communication between the Secretariat and the  Member States. The chairpersons of the regional groups would like to express, through me, their gratitude for his  periodic meetings for the exchange of ideas and information. Mr Director-General, in reaffirming the integral  values of UNESCO, you are not alone: teachers throughout the world are with you in your 'Dream' - the poem  which you dedicated to Mr and Mrs Guruge in 1980. Teachers the world over are at your side in the task of  making this ‘dream’ a reality.  "This is my dream:  An army of teachers on the march...  The wars we wage are different wars,  To help all those whose lives are wrecked  By drug abuse or alcohol,  The children and the handicapped,  The lonely, and those suffering  From bullet wounds or loss of hope,  Forgotten by the world, and those  Who know the pain of growing old...  Let soldiers of another ilk,  Invincible, arise and fight  With weapons of a different kind  For other causes, other ends...  (While rockets streak across the sky,  Millions of illiterates live and die).
(10.11) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  and delegates, I thank you very much.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank Ms Lerner de Almea.
11.2 I now give the floor to Mr Wataru Miyakawa, member of the Executive Board, to deliver a brief  message on behalf of Japan.
12.1 Mr MIYAKAWA (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. I have to correct you, Sir, because I am not yet a member of the Board,  which will meet for the first time this afternoon.
122 Thank you, Mr President, for allowing this digression from the normal closing ceremony procedure.  Since the distinguished representative of Venezuela has referred in her address to the reform proposal, I feel  that I must take this opportunity to express the sincere gratitude of my delegation and that of my government to  all those who contributed to the adoption by consensus of the proposal. If we did not do so at the time, that was  because it was no longer our proposal but a consensus draft contained in the first report of the Legal  Committee, and my delegation felt it presumptuous to intervene in its own name. In order not to interrupt  unduly the closing proceedings I shall be very brief, and therefore cannot name all those to whom our thanks  are due, and I wish to crave your indulgence for any omissions.
12.3 My delegation is grateful for the co-operation and understanding of the many delegations which have  contributed in the process towards consensus. We are particularly grateful to the Group of 77 and to  Ambassador Lerner de Almea, who - as its Chairwoman - played an extremely important role in the consensus-  building by organizing what I believe to have been nearly 40 meetings of the group with a view to producing a  draft which would receive the support of a large number of Member States.
12.4 Our thanks are due also to another lady, Ambassador Kunadi, Vice-Chairperson of the Group of 77  and Chairwoman of the Asia-Pacific Group. Another person who played a heroic role at a crucial moment in  the negotiations is Ambassador Ould Deida of Mauritania, who shuttled from one group of co-sponsors to  another in order to reconcile conflicting views; my delegation wishes to express its special thanks to him.
12.5 There are many others whose contribution is deeply appreciated: they include Mr Bourokba of Algeria,  Ambassador Costa-Franco of Brazil, Ambassador Dato'Hassan of Malaysia, Ambassador Messan of Niger and  Ambassador Guruge of Sri Lanka - the list could go on but I shall stop here.
126 — The gratitude of my delegation also goes to the Chairman of the Legal Committee and its members for  their good and expeditious work. Last but not least, my delegation wishes to thank the Director-General for  giving us guidance through his vision about the future of UNESCO as well as providing us with the necessary  logistical support, and in particular the services of the Legal Adviser.
12.7 Thank you, Mr President. I apologize again for the interruption.
13.2 I now give the floor to Mr Jean-Pierre Angrémy, Permanent Delegate of France to UNESCO and  newly elected member of its Executive Board, who will speak as the representative of our host country, France.  You have the floor, Sir.
14.1 M. ANGREMY (France) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, c'est  une tradition, pour le représentant du pays hôte, que de prononcer quelques mots au cours de cette séance de  clôture. Oserai-je vous dire que rarement j'ai été aussi heureux et aussi honoré de satisfaire à une tradition.  C'est que si les sessions de la Conférence générale se terminent bien souvent sur des satisfecit que l'on se  distribue généreusement à soi-même, cette vingt-sixième session a été tout à fait exceptionnelle au moins sur  deux points : d'abord, par le contexte politique dans lequel elle s'est réunie ; ensuite, par l'efficacité, l'énergie  dont elle a fait preuve, inaugurant peut-être une ère nouvelle dans l'histoire de l'UNESCO.
142 Le contexte de cette session de la Conférence générale, vous le connaissez tous et presque tous les  orateurs qui se sont succédé à cette tribune lors du débat de politique l'ont souligné : depuis la précédente  session, les choses, dans le monde, ne sont plus ce qu'elles étaient. Lors de son intervention ici même le
15 octobre dernier, le Président de la République française, M. François Mitterrand, l'a démontré : en deux ans,  des murs se sont abattus, des prisons ouvertes, des esprits se sont libérés. Un monde ancien s'est effondré. La  fracture entre l'Est et l'Ouest semble aujourd'hui bel et bien abolie et l'Europe veuve d'elle-même s'est  réconciliée. Parallèlement se met en place une nouvelle définition des rapports Nord-Sud, dont les fondements  ont sûrement cessé d'être la surenchère de quelques-uns face à l'aveuglement de beaucoup d'autres. Une ère  d'espérance nouvelle s'est ainsi ouverte pour le monde mais dans le même temps, des réactions brutales se sont  manifestées, des nationalismes anciens ressurgissent et ont ressurgi, des haines nouvelles, des préjugés, des  violences, des deuils.
14.3 Seule la démocratie peut apporter une réponse à ces défis. Mais, le Président Mitterrand l'a dit, la  démocratie ne saurait survivre qu'appuyée sur deux piliers aujourd'hui indissociables, qui sont le refus de  l'irrationnel et le respect des identités. Et puis, cela a été souligné à maintes reprises, la démocratie demeure un  vain mot - la démocratie pour quoi faire ? - sans le développement, c'est-à-dire partout où un vide économique  impose un ordre social de facto et une rigueur qui prévalent trop souvent sur toutes les aspirations à la  démocratie authentique.
144  Afin de respecter ces identités sans pour autant tomber dans les abîmes de l'irrationnel, et tout en  assurant des chances plus égales dans le développement de tous, la société internationale est en train d'opérer  en son sein une réorganisation des tâches entre les différentes institutions qui la composent. L'ONU et ses  institutions spécialisées se répartissent ainsi la part du travail qui leur revient sur le plan politique, mais aussi  économique, financier et dans tous les domaines techniques. Chaque fois, ce sont les moyens de chacun qu'on  s'efforce de mettre au service de tous dans un secteur particulier.
145 Voila pourquoi l'UNESCO, à son tour, doit se mettre au travail et s'est déjà mise au travail. Pendant
50 ans, nous avons pensé comme à l'intérieur d'un moule qu'on nous avait imposé, avec tout ce que cela  comportait de restrictions, de rigidités, d'inerties et de langue de bois. Ce moule nous a éclaté au visage à tous :  c'est à des hommes de culture de tenter les premiers d'apprendre à penser autrement. Une chance s'offrait à  nous, nous n'avions pas le droit de la manquer. Je crois bien que cette première session de la Conférence  générale d'une autre après-guerre, qui est l'après-guerre idéologique, ne l'a pas manquée. Représentant ici le  pays hôte de notre Organisation, je m'en réjouis et je vais tenter d'en tirer les principales conclusions.
146 Monsieur le Président, la première expression de cette volonté de réforme a été la proposition  japonaise relative à la représentation directe des Etats au Conseil exécutif. Le texte que nous avons adopté par  consensus - ce consensus qui fait la force de notre Organisation - ne fait que consacrer en droit une évolution  déjà perceptible depuis de nombreuses années dans la pratique et devrait permettre à nos Etats de se sentir  investis d'une responsabilité pleine et entière vis-à-vis des décisions prises par le Conseil. Toutefois, pour  préserver le caractère unique de notre Organisation, nous avons tous ensemble pris un certain nombre de  précautions fondamentales - établi des garde-fous, en somme - pour que cette représentation soit assurée au  niveau qu'il convient par les hommes et les femmes les plus propres à tenir ce rôle et dans les conditions les  plus adaptées à une mission qui ne ressemble à aucune autre.
14.7 C'est dans le même esprit que le Conseil exécutif lui-même a décidé, à la suite d'une initiative prise par  le Canada, de créer au sein de sa Commission financière et administrative un groupe restreint d'experts chargé  de se pencher notamment sur la question délicate des techniques budgétaires. Cette décision a été saluée par  notre Conférence générale qui l'a interprétée comme une confirmation de la volonté du Conseil de jouer  pleinement son rôle en coopération étroite avec le Directeur général et le Secrétariat.
14.8 Tout cela est très bien, tout cela ne peut certainement qu'améliorer l'organisation générale de  l'UNESCO et sa rigueur, et je crois que nous pouvons nous en féliciter. Mais je crois aussi que nous devons  également nous féliciter de ne pas en être restés là.
149 Car nous n'en sommes pas restés là. À quoi servirait, en effet, d'améliorer une mécanique, d'en graisser  les rouages si elle ne véhiculait rien de neuf et fonctionnait aujourd'hui comme elle cahotait voilà 10 ou 15 ans,  sur la même route, sans orientations nouvelles et surtout sans tenir compte des grands carrefours intellectuels,  hier interdits, aujourd'hui largement ouverts ? Un nouvel équilibre devait être trouvé entre la rigueur nécessaire  de la gestion et la volonté de renouveau de l'imagination et de la pensée. C'est le même équilibre, en somme,
27   qu'il faut maintenant retrouver entre les programmes et les débats fructueux qui doivent reprendre au sein de  I'Organisation.
14.10 Je ne résiste pas à la tentation, après le Président de la République française, de citer à nouveau Léon  Blum, Président de la Conférence générale de 1946 : "On attend de l'UNESCO deux résultats qui ne sont  nullement incompatibles, bien au contraire : d'une part, des initiatives précises, méthodiques, progressives dans  un certain nombre de domaines techniques essentiels et, d'autre part, une action d'ensemble sur la condition  spirituelle des peuples et des individus."
14.11 En ce qui concerne les programmes, cette vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale a largement  et efficacement balayé le terrain. Plus concentrés, souvent mieux définis, les champs majeurs de programme ont  fait l'objet d'un examen attentif et parfois critique déjà très riche. Des échéances nouvelles vont se présenter ; je  pense à la Conférence de Rio sur l'environnement : nous devons être en mesure d'y répondre et, à Rio par  exemple, de faire tenir à l'UNESCO la place qui doit être la sienne. Comme l'a souligné au début de la session,  M. Lionel Jospin, l'UNESCO doit savoir convaincre de son efficacité et de sa spécificité dans les domaines de  l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication, où elle doit faire face à la concurrence d'autres  organisations mondiales.
14.12 Mais l'action pour nous, hommes et femmes de culture, est indissociable de la réflexion. Au-delà des  programmes, notre véritable ambition doit être de renouer avec cette idée exprimée en 1933 par Paul Valéry, et  déjà citée à cette tribune, dans une lettre qu'il écrivait à Salvador de Madariaga : "La société des nations a  besoin d'une société des esprits”. Presque tous les intervenants dans le débat politique du début de cette session  ont ainsi souligné de la même façon que, dans une démocratie retrouvée dont on doit par-dessus tout préserver  les acquis et étendre les territoires, il était impensable que l'UNESCO ne redevienne pas le lieu de rencontre  qu'elle seule peut constituer, où tous les pays qui la composent, face à face et parfaitement égaux, se poseront  ensemble les grands problèmes de civilisation qui dominent le monde d'aujourd'hui.
14.13 Les idéologies, qui ont trop longtemps raboté les discours pour les transformer en une langue de bois,  sont mortes. Loin des idéologies, osons dès lors à nouveau les idées. Voilà pourquoi le moment est venu - et  nous l'avons bien senti - d'introduire une notion peut-être nouvelle : il est temps, en effet, qu'au sein du Conseil  exécutif, les Etats assument dans des domaines essentiels les responsabilités qu'ils considèrent déjà comme tout  naturellement les leurs dans les domaines politiques ou économiques au sein d'autres organisations. Il est  temps, on l'a dit, d'affirmer la responsabilité intellectuelle et culturelle des Etats et des peuples. C'est parce que  nous avons tous ressenti cette urgence que nous avons, tous ensemble, à partir d'une initiative de l'Allemagne et  de la France et à nouveau par consensus, adopté l'idée d'un renforcement de la coopération intellectuelle.
14.14 Nous sommes tous d'accord pour que cette réflexion renouvelée se fasse dans le cadre qui est  naturellement le sien, le seul - je le répète - qui puisse refléter démocratiquement l'égalité de tous les Etats : le  Conseil exécutif. C'est dès lors au Conseil exécutif, ou au sein d'émanations du Conseil exécutif, émanations  voulues par lui et constituées de spécialistes de telle ou telle question qu'il souhaite voir traitée, que seront  discutés, sous sa responsabilité - c'est-à-dire en engageant la responsabilité des Etats qui constituent le Conseil  exécutif comme de ceux qui l'ont démocratiquement élu - les grands problèmes culturels, intellectuels,  scientifiques, d'éducation et de communication, qui sont ceux du monde d'aujourd'hui. Ainsi, parce qu'il se  situe déjà lui-même au coeur de cette autre réalité de l'UNESCO que sont les programmes, le Conseil sera-t-il le  seui à même d'établir ce lien indissociable dont on a parlé, entre débats intellectuels et programmes, entre  réflexion et action.
14.15 Afin de mieux préparer ces nouveaux débats, vous avez également décidé de la création d'un groupe de  réflexion ad hoc chargé d'identifier et de définir les sujets clés sur lesquels le Conseil pourra se pencher. Ce  forum, qui sera établi par le Conseil en collaboration avec le Directeur général, ne risquera en rien de dessaisir  le Conseil de ses prérogatives, En effet, établi pour une période de temps limitée, mais renouvelable, ce groupe  ad hoc n'étudiera pas lui-même les questions mais, on l'a dit, il les identifiera et fera des propositions au  Conseil.
14.16 Vous l'avez bien compris, c'est tout un nouveau schéma de travail que, sans hâte pourtant, et tout en  oeuvrant avec une diligence exemplaire sur les problèmes de fond qu'elle avait à examiner, cette Conférence  générale a mis au point. Au-delà de tout ce que nous pouvons éprouver de satisfaction quant au travail réalisé  sur les programmes, c'est tout particulièrement de maturité, d'esprit d'équipe aussi et de sens de la démocratie  enfin dont cette Conférence générale a fait preuve. C'est de cette nouvelle approche de ce que sera peut-être
832   l'UNESCO de l'avenir que le représentant du pays hôte doit pouvoir se féliciter, doit nous féliciter tous et toutes  ensemble.
14.17 Dans ce contexte, et face à ces initiatives, face à un aspect nouveau aussi, qui renoue avec les  aspirations des pères fondateurs tout en s'appuyant avec une acuité accrue sur la réalité du monde d'aujourd'hui,  on peut espérer que les pays qui se sont un moment éloignés de notre Organisation se rendront compte qu'ils ne  peuvent pas ne pas rallier la société nouvelle que nous constituons et redonner à l'UNESCO son universalité.  Quelque part se profile devant nous une deuxième naissance de l'UNESCO : tous ses membres actuels, y  compris les plus neufs que nous avons accueillis ici et que nous saluons - l'Estonie, la Lettonie, la Lituanie,  Tuvalu - participent à ce mouvement ; tous les pays fondateurs devront y participer.
14.18 Monsieur le Président, à l'issue de nos travaux, je voudrais à présent rendre hommage à votre sens  remarquable du dialogue qui a permis, de pair avec l'autorité naturelle que chacun vous reconnaît, un  déroulement harmonieux et constructif de cette Conférence si importante.
14.19 Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, nous avons tous pu apprécier au cours des années écoulées  votre compréhension sans faille des difficiles questions dont est saisi le Conseil exécutif ainsi que la sagesse  avec laquelle vous avez su dédramatiser certaines situations, guider certains débats vers leur conclusion  naturelle et ouvrir ainsi sur l'avenir la période qui s'achève.
14.20 Monsieur le Directeur général, depuis quatre ans, vous menez avec opiniâtreté et courage la tâche  difficile qui consiste à préparer l'UNESCO à entrer dans le XXIe siècle. L'élan d'enthousiasme, l'attachement  aux valeurs essentielles de l'humanité qui avaient présidé à la fondation de l'UNESCO au lendemain ‘de la  deuxième guerre mondiale couraient le risque, avec le temps, il faut bien le dire, de s'émousser. C'est à vous  qu'est échue la responsabilité difficile et parfois même ingrate mais combien exaltante, de donner un nouveau  départ à cette Maison, l'UNESCO.
14.21 Monsieur le Président, je tiens, quant à moi, à réaffirmer que la France est prête, pour sa part, en tant  que pays hôte à mettre à la disposition de l'UNESCO tous les moyens dont elle dispose et qui pourront être  utiles aux nouveaux débats qui vont s'instaurer en son sein.
14,22 En effet, 1945 et 1946 étaient les années de toutes les utopies. On rêvait de pouvoir penser. Mais au  fracas des armes a bientôt succédé le fracas des mots inutiles, sans que les armes pour autant soient vraiment  tombées. Voilà qu'aujourd'hui, les mots trop bruyants et bien vains de la langue de bois se sont enfin tus à leur  tour. Cette session de la Conférence générale nous a montré que, face à l'ancienne volonté de puissance, on  pouvait non plus seulement rêver mais oser affirmer enfin une autre volonté, la volonté de penser : de penser,  Monsieur le Président, et vous nous y avez puissamment aidés pendant ces trois semaines, de penser tous  ensemble. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Jean-Pierre Angrémy. Through you, on behalf of the General Conference,  may I thank the French Government for the support and co-operation it extends to the Organization.
15.2 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I now have the pleasure of inviting the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, who has contributed so much to ensuring the success of this Conference, to take the floor.
16.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président, au moment où prend fin cette vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale,  je voudrais en mon nom personnel comme en celui de l'Organisation tout entière joindre ma voix à toutes celles  qui viennent de s'exprimer pour vous féliciter d'avoir su animer avec autorité, sagacité et courtoisie, les travaux  d'une session de la Conférence générale qui, je le crois, marquera une date historique dans la vie de l'UNESCO.  Vos qualités nous ont été précieuses, Elles le seront également au Conseil exécutif où vous êtes appelé à siéger  avec voix consultative jusqu'à la prochaine session de la Conférence générale. Comment ne pas exprimer aussi  notre reconnaissance au Président sortant du Conseil exécutif, M. Yaya Aliyu, ainsi qu'à l'ensemble des  délégués pour leur contribution précieuse au succès de cette Conférence.
16.2  Permettez-moi également de remercier toutes celles et tous ceux qui ont tant travaillé pour  l'organisation et le déroulement de cette Conférence. Je veux parler des membres du personnel de l'UNESCO. Il  y a ceux que l'on voit à l'oeuvre, et puis d'autres dont le labeur reste presque invisible derrière les vitres opaques
27   des cabines d'interprètes, derrière les portes grises des bureaux. A chacun, permettez-moi aussi d'exprimer toute  notre reconnaissance et nos remerciements les plus chaleureux.
16.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, voici venu le moment de nous séparer. Voici que  sonne l'heure de la synthèse et du bilan. Tout est dit : vous avez examiné le nouveau programme, vous l'avez  approuvé, vous avez adopté un budget, vous avez approuvé des réformes cruciales, vous avez renouvelé votre  foi dans l'UNESCO et dans sa capacité de se transformer. Tout est dit. Le temps est venu d'agir. Sur la base des  indications que nous avons reçues, il nous faut désormais frayer la voie à l'UNESCO du futur. La fin de cette  session, c'est l'aube d'un jour nouveau. L'union des volontés qui s'est manifestée - avec quelle force ici même le  prouve : l'UNESCO non seulement est vivante, mais la vigueur de son message et de sa renaissance est apparue  en pleine lumière dans le tournant historique pris par l'époque - à l'heure de toutes les transitions.
16.4 L'accord sur le fond auquel vous êtes parvenus l'indique clairement : cette session aura été celle de  l'unité. J'ajouterais volontiers que cette Conférence générale pourrait bien apparaître, dès lors que les acquis en  auront été soupesés et les enseignements tirés, comme la Conférence du renouveau. Aujourd'hui, l'UNESCO est  une idée neuve pour les peuples du monde. "Réveil de l'Organisation”, "seconde naissance” de l'UNESCO, tels  sont les mots qu'a su trouver le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour résumer  l'impression partagée par beaucoup. Pour sa part, le Président de la République française a évoqué la deuxième  "chance qui nous est offerte". Ce sont là des paroles de poids. Nombre de délégués, avec leurs mots - leurs  cultures diverses - ont exprimé la même idée, et se sont réjouis de ce réveil de l'UNESCO, dans lequel chacun  peut puiser la source d'un nouvel engagement au service des idéaux de l'Acte constitutif.
16.5 Monsieur le Président, je ne tenterai pas de passer en revue de manière systématique les résultats des  travaux qui s'achèvent aujourd'hui. Je voudrais cependant mettre en relief les acquis de la session, la portée des  décisions budgétaires qu'a prises la Conférence générale, les enseignements, enfin, que je tire de vos débats.  Permettez-moi d'abord de souligner l'ampleur de la participation à cette session. Le nombre et la qualité des  délégations ont fait de cette session de la Conférence générale une rencontre exceptionnelle : 7 chefs d'Etat ou  chefs de gouvernement qui nous ont fait l'honneur de leur présence et de leurs réflexions, 161 Etats membres  représentés, avec des délégations dirigées par 155 ministres ou personnalités de rang ministériel, 2 Etats  membres associés, 3 Etats non membres, 2 autres observateurs, 8 organismes des Nations Unies,
23 organisations internationales gouvernementales, 126 organisations internationales non gouvernementales,  soit en tout quelque 2.206 participants, auxquels il convient d'ajouter de nombreux journalistes. Quatre  nouveaux Etats membres se sont joints à l'UNESCO. Ce fait ne saurait laisser personne indifférent : comme  l'ont souligné la plupart des délégués, l'événement démontre à lui seul la vitalité de l'UNESCO, sa force  d'attraction, la finalité nécessairement universelle qui est la sienne. En outre, la brièveté de cette session de la  Conférence générale indique sans conteste que les dispositions recommandées par les organes directeurs eux-  mêmes ont fait la preuve de leur efficacité. Cette vingt-sixième session aura été la plus courte de l'histoire de  l'UNESCO depuis 42 ans, c'est-à-dire depuis la quatrième session tenue en 1949 - date à laquelle l'Organisation  comptait, il importe de le préciser, non pas 163, mais 51 Etats membres.
16.6 — Au-delà de ces données, je crois résumer le sentiment de chacun en soulignant le caractère  exceptionnel du climat de cette session. Voilà longtemps, en effet, que ne s'était pas exprimée une adhésion  aussi franche et massive au programme proposé à l'approbation de la Conférence générale. J'ai noté aussi le très  large consensus qui s'est dégagé au sujet des réformes que j'ai entreprises et de celles qu'ont introduites les Etats  membres et le Conseil exécutif.
16.7 La première leçon que je tire de cette session, c'est la volonté qui s'est manifestée - malgré les  difficultés, les hésitations, l'abondance des besoins - d'approuver un programme marqué au sceau d'une  concentration effective, fondée sur un ordre réel de priorités. Concentrer, par-delà la richesse et la diversité  constitutive des domaines d'action qu'assigne à l'UNESCO notre mandat, c'est rassembler les forces autour de  l'essentiel, en préservant l'équilibre entre la réflexion et l'action. Concentrer, c'est choisir. Cela veut dire  sélectionner. 11 fallait en avoir le courage. Il fallait accepter la métamorphose. En mettant au point les plans  détaillés de l'exécution du programme, en préparant le programme futur, je garderai à l'esprit la leçon qu'avait  su résumer par avance le Conseil exécutif lorsqu'il indiquait que "la concentration du programme doit être  poursuivie avec vigueur afin d'accroître l'impact positif de l'action de l'Organisation”.
16.8 Cette volonté de concentration n'a en rien entamé la ferme résolution, signifiée par chacun d'entre  nous, d'aller de l'avant. Car vous vous êtes prononcés en même temps pour un programme davantage orienté  vers les urgences d'un monde en mutation, vers les exigences du futur. Une relation étroite unit l'impératif de la
834   concentration et la conscience des urgences imposées par l'accélération de l'histoire. Sans dresser l'inventaire  des priorités que vous avez exprimées, permettez-moi d'évoquer quelques points de convergence de votre  réflexion, à l'intersection entre l'éducation, la science et la culture.
16.9 Ainsi, vous avez été nombreux à donner, au carrefour des disciplines et de l'action des acteurs, toute  son importance à l'éducation pour le XXIe siècle. Car tous les pays ont besoin, qu'il s'agisse de l'éducation pour  tous ou de l'enseignement supérieur, d'une rénovation radicale non seulement de leurs politiques éducatives,  mais du processus même de l'éducation. Jadis, l'éducation était réservée à un âge de la vie, Close derrière tes  murs de l'école, elle était un système. Devenue permanente, elle est maintenant l'affaire de toute une existence  et de la Cité tout entière. Autrefois, elle était le lot de quelques-uns. Aujourd'hui, elle est le patrimoine et la  vocation de tous. Hier, l'éducation visait la quantité : le poids des contenus devait pénétrer la masse inerte des  effectifs scolaires. Désormais, elle doit viser aussi la qualité. Auparavant, il fallait apprendre. Il faut dorénavant  apprendre à apprendre pour apprendre non plus seulement à être, mais à devenir, à se transformer, à  entreprendre. Pour nos maîtres, l'éducation était surtout transmission du passé, et voici qu'elle glisse peu à peu  vers le continent du futur.
16.10 Faut-il dès lors s'étonner que nombre de délégués aient souligné, comme le président Julius Nyerere  lors d'une visite mémorable à l'UNESCO, qu'on avait, du fait des politiques d'ajustement structurel, par trop  négligé le développement de l'enseignement supérieur ? Sans celui-ci, le Sud serait condamné au destin de  l'assisté. S'il est raisonnable d'accorder la priorité à certains segments essentiels de l'éducation, tels que  l'éducation de base, toute politique, dans ce domaine, ne peut être que globale. Je me réjouis que les premiers  signes qui laissent augurer une régression de l'analphabétisme en chiffres absolus sotent désormais perceptibles.  Seul cependant l'engagement tenace des Etats membres permettra de confirmer cette bonne nouvelle, et  d'inverser au cours de cette décennie la tendance à l'accroissement en valeur absolue du nombre d'analphabètes.  C'est d'ailleurs aux Etats membres, et non aux bailleurs, de concevoir l'architecture de leurs systèmes éducatifs  et de déterminer leurs propres priorités, en s'aidant, dès lors qu'ils le souhaitent, des conseils de l'UNESCO,  organisation du système des Nations Unies à laquelle a été confiée l'éducation. À la suite de la Conférence de  Jomtien, les banques internationales et régionales et les sources de financement - notamment la Banque  mondiale - ont multiplié au sens strict du terme le volume déjà important des ressources qu'elles consacraient à  l'éducation. Comment ne pas s'en réjouir ? Je suis persuadé que les Etats membres sauront saisir cette chance,  comme l'ont fait un certain nombre d'entre eux, pour savoir exprimer leur volonté sans équivoque d'associer  l'UNESCO à la définition de leurs nouvelles stratégies éducatives.
16.11 Volonté politique, alliances entre partenaires pour une action de synergie, qualité des éducateurs : tels  sont les trois préalables du succès. Un esprit caustique - en fait, l'un des hommes d'État qui ont dominé le  XXe siècle - a pu, voici un quart de siècle, définir l'UNESCO comme "l'internationale des professeurs”. Sous  une forme plaisante, il résumait au fond l'idée qu'Ellen Wilkinson, chef de la délégation britannique, et  ministre de l'instruction publique du Royaume-Uni, énonçait en ces termes lors d'une autre séance de clôture, le
16 novembre 1945, alors que s'achevaient les travaux de la Conférence de Londres qui a créé l'UNESCO : "en  ce moment solennel, disait-elle, nous disons aux maîtres que ceux qui participent à la lutte contre l'ignorance  ne combattent pas seuls ; nous sommes derrière eux, nous, et cette grande Organisation à laquelle ils peuvent  s'adresser." Près de 46 ans après cette déclaration, je me félicite que, fidèle à l'esprit de la marraine fondatrice  de l'UNESCO, qui lui a fait don du "S" de la science, l'Organisation s'apprête à étudier la possibilité de créer  une distinction Comenius pour récompenser les pédagogues les plus éminents et de proclamer une Journée  mondiale de l'enseignant.
16.12 J'ai évoqué l'éducation des temps futurs, S'il est une autre leçon essentielle de cette session, c'est la très  haute priorité que s'est vue reconnaître la culture, Car le développement s'enracine dans la culture. Comme l'a  justement indiqué le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, il commence "dans l'esprit des  hommes" : la culture est donc dès l’origine la dimension essentielle du développement. Elle le devient chaque  jour davantage, dès lors que "le savoir tend à supplanter la terre ou le capital en tant que facteur de production”.  Entre le respect de l'héritage et la formation des ressources humaines, au confluent du passé, du présent et de  l'avenir, au point de rencontre de l'éducation, de la science, de la communication, la culture indique ainsi le  chemin où chacun peut trouver le lieu et la formule de son épanouissement, grâce au dialogue entre les visions,  les oeuvres et même les rêves.
16.13 La haute priorité que vous avez accordée à l'environnement et qui lui est reconnue au sein du  programme, est également un signe qui ne trompe pas : l'UNESCO - c'est une autre leçon de cette session - fait  désormais une place accrue à l'interdisciplinarité et à l'intersectorialité. La préservation de l'environnement, de
27   même que l'importance décisive des questions culturelles font ressortir nettement aujourd'hui les enjeux de  toute décision majeure. Selon la belle formule du ministre des affaires étrangères de la République italienne, il  faut désormais choisir "entre l'intégration et la désintégration”. Dans le vertige de cette alternative, se jouent la  forme et les contours du monde futur. La préparation de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur l'environnement  et le développement a donc été, comme on pouvait s'y attendre, au coeur de vos discussions : elle est aussi en  tête de l'ordre du jour que vous vous êtes assignés en approuvant le programme proposé. Je veux voir là encore  une autre convergence cruciale entre science, culture, et société. Mais c'est aussi l'occasion, pour l'UNESCO, de  confirmer, comme à la Conférence de Jomtien, qu'elle a rompu l'isolement qu'on lui avait parfois reproché, et  qu’elle joue désormais pleinement la partition qui est la sienne dans le concert des Nations Unies.
16.14 Avec la concentration du programme autour des quelques grands objectifs et des cibles prioritaires que  vous avez retenus, l'approfondissement de la réforme de l'UNESCO constitue l'autre grand acquis de cette  session, En modifiant l'Acte constitutif, en recommandant la constitution d'un petit comité consultatif chargé  des questions administratives et budgétaires, les Etats membres ont souhaité, tout en renforçant leur  participation à la prise de décision, améliorer l'efficacité des travaux du Conseil exécutif. Cette réforme  imprimera, j'en suis convaincu, une nouvelle dynamique à notre action. Car l'UNESCO - permettez-moi de le  redire - ce n'est pas le Secrétariat. C'est encore moins le Siège. L'Organisation, c'est vous. Ce sont les Etats  membres. Le renforcement de leur présence au sein du Conseil exécutif devrait avoir pour corollaire un  engagement encore plus résolu de la part de chacun des Etats membres de l'UNESCO, de poursuivre avec  vigueur les buts de l'Acte constitutif et les objectifs retenus par la Conférence générale.
16.15 Cependant, l'amélioration de l'efficacité intergouvernementale de l'UNESCO ne bénéficiera  pleinement aux travaux de l'Organisation que si elle a pour contrepartie un accroissement de son rôle  intellectuel, et donc de ses capacités d'expertise non gouvernementale et de vision prospective. En préconisant  la mise en place d'un forum de réflexion ad hoc ainsi qu'un renforcement de la coopération intellectuelle à  l'UNESCO, la Conférence générale a fait un pas significatif dans cette direction.
16.16 Par ailleurs, je note que les réformes que j'ai moi-même mises en oeuvre ou engagées ont rencontré la  plus large adhésion. Ainsi, la volonté des Etats membres et l'engagement du Secrétariat coïncident. Elles  tendent vers un même but : adapter l'UNESCO aux exigences du futur et au rythme des défis qu'elle doit  relever. La nécessité de réformer en profondeur l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies, et chacune de ses  organisations en particulier, s'impose aujourd'hui à tous. Une telle réforme ne saurait se limiter aux aspects  concernant l'administration, pas plus qu'elle ne peut faire l'économie d'une réflexion sur le rôle et les missions  du système dans son ensemble, et de l'UNESCO en particulier. L'étude approfondie du Conseil exécutif, mais  aussi les échanges de vue au sein du Comité administratif de coordination, ont indiqué les pistes de recherche.  La réforme de l'Organisation exige non seulement le renouvellement de son programme, qui est sa raison  d'être, mais aussi une révision en profondeur des modalités d'exécution de celui-ci. Que faire ? Comment le  faire ? Avec qui le faire ? Telles sont quelques-unes des questions auxquelles nous ne saurions nous dérober  aujourd'hui. Sur la base des indications et des directives que m'ont données l'ensemble des chefs de délégation,  je compte au cours des mois qui viennent poursuivre les consultations, en recourant à l'expertise interne et  extérieure, afin d'explorer les voies et les moyens d'une accélération du processus de réforme à l'UNESCO.
16.17 Monsieur le Président, vous venez ce matin même d'adopter à l'unanimité et par acclamation le budget  que j'ai proposé pour 1992-1993. Le montant total des crédits ouverts pour cet exercice est de 444.704.000  dollars. L'adhésion sans réserves que vous venez d'apporter au budget est aussi un signe de la confiance que  placent les Etats membres dans l'avenir de l'Organisation. La satisfaction que nous pourrions éprouver se trouve  cependant tempérée par les limites qu'impose à l'action de l'UNESCO un tel budget. Pour la première fois, le  montant du budget qui a été adopté correspond à une croissance négative en termes réels : moins 2,6 %. Je  rappelle en effet que j'ai dû réduire le budget de 11 millions de dollars. Si l'on ajoute à ce montant les "dettes du  passé” dont l'amortissement s'élèvera à 7 millions et demi de dollars qui devront être absorbés pendant  l'exercice, c'est, au total, une somme de 18 millions et demi de dollars, soit plus de 4 % du montant total du  budget du présent exercice biennal, qui fera défaut au programme, au risque de diminuer les services que rend  l'Organisation aux Etats membres. Permettez-moi donc de formuler le voeu, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames  et Messieurs, que cette réduction budgétaire reste dans la vie de l'Organisation un événement unique lié à des  circonstances exceptionnelles, et que de nouvelles possibilités d'action nous soient données, non seulement  grâce à un accroissement des contributions extrabudgétaires, mais par la restauration de l'universalité de  l'UNESCO.
16.18 Je viens d'évoquer les limites budgétaires qui s'imposent à l'ation de l'UNESCO. La Conférence  générale s'est en outre à bon droit préoccupée de notre situation de trésorerie. Bien que les contributions reçues  au cours du mois d'octobre aient largement couvert les dépenses courantes et que les emprunts que j'ai dû  contracter aient été presque intégralement remboursés à ce jour, le montant des contributions dues s'élevaient  encore à plus de 67 millions de dollars à la fin du mois d'octobre. Je prie donc les Etats membres concernés de  régler "sans délai”, comme vient de les inviter à le faire la Conférence générale, l'intégralité de leurs arriérés. Je  demande également à tous les Etats membres de s'acquitter aussi rapidement que possible de leurs contributions  pour l'exercice 1992-1993, afin que nous soyons en mesure d'exécuter intégralement et au rythme qu'ils ont  choisi le programme qu'ils viennent d'approuver. La confiance qui vient d'être témoignée à l'action de  l'UNESCO exige en effet que les moyens lui soient donnés d'atteindre ses objectifs. Le respect par les Etats  membres de leurs engagements financiers, par-delà les obligations statutaires qui s'imposent à chacun, est une  question d'éthique internationale. Je suggérerai au Conseil exécutif, au vu de la situation, toutes formules qui,  dans le respect de vos décisions, me paraîtront s'imposer.
16.19 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, au-delà des acquis de la session, quels enseignements  pouvons-nous tirer de nos travaux ? Un premier constat s'impose. De l'aveu de la plupart d'entre vous, nous  vivons un moment décisif ; cette chance historique, nous n'avons pas le droit de la laisser passer. Pour des  continents entiers, de vastes régions, notre temps est marqué au sceau de la transition démocratique. Sans  institutions qui fondent l'autonomie, la démocratie peut s'effondrer. Dans la pénurie, elle risque de se briser  dans la violence. Pour durer, pour s'affermir, la démocratie doit inscrire sa loi dans le coeur des citoyens. Ce  sont eux qui sont l'esprit de la démocratie et son meilleur bouclier. La démocratie ne saurait se limiter au libre  choix des gouvernements par les gouvernés. Elle exige la participation et le dialogue de tous les acteurs, et ne  peut s'édifier que sur une éthique de partage et de solidarité. Elle ne saurait bâtir sa demeure sur l'ignorance. En  permettant le dialogue d'identités ouvertes, et librement assumées, la démocratie réconcilie culture et politique,  dans l'union de la volonté personnelle et de l'intérêt général. L'essor des connaissances, le développement des  ressources humaines, la culture de la démocratie sont donc au principe de la grande transformation en cours. Ils  sont la clé de tout développement, de toute paix durable. Là réside, je crois, l'originalité de la contribution de  l'UNESCO.
16.20 Il va de soi que cette réflexion prend inévitablement une dimension internationale. Les murs se sont  effondrés, les prisons ouvertes, les bouches déliées. Mais dans notre village planétaire, comment les ailes de la  liberté pourraient-elles prendre leur envol si pèse sur elles le fardeau de la pauvreté ? Le Président Aristide a su  évoquer, avec des paroles inspirées, l'"école du temps” - cette école des démunis qui est aussi école de tolérance.  Mais la misère fait le lit de toutes les tentations, de toutes les aventures, de tous les autoritarismes. Les avancées  locales de la démocratie sont tributaires de son essor international. Nombre d'entre vous l'ont affirmé : aux  murs de l'idéologie, gardons-nous de substituer les murs de l'égoïsme, les barrières de l'argent, les exclusives de  la prospérité aveugle. La liberté doit rimer avec l'universalité, pour peu qu'elle se refuse à n'être qu'une liberté  particulière, en d'autres termes, un privilège.
16.21 Ici se situe - c'est une autre grande leçon de cette session - la "seconde chance” de l'Organisation. Si la  démocratie se voit reconnaître une légitimité universelle, alors l'UNESCO peut puiser aux sources de son Acte  constitutif une nouvelle jeunesse. J'avais voici 4 ans pris un tel pari - car à l'époque c'était encore un pari - dans  mon discours d'installation. Mais c'est Jaume Torres-Bodet qui, dès l'origine, avait su résumer mieux que  quiconque la clarté de notre engagement, à l'égard des générations futures, lorsqu'il déclarait en 1945 à la  Conférence de Londres ayant créé l'UNESCO : "Nous sommes venus de tous les continents … fonder une  institution démocratique au service de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture.”
16.22  L'avènement d'un âge nouveau des relations internationales, libéré de l'opposition entre blocs  antagonistes, offre en effet une chance unique à l'UNESCO. Il est désormais possible d'imprimer un élan  nouveau à la coopération intellectuelle internationale entre les rations. Lorsque s'effondrent ou se  métamorphosent les piliers de l'idéologie, lorsque s'affirme le succès du dialogue, alors il devient possible de  donner un sens plus pur aux mots et aux principes de la communauté internationale. La pleine signification des  formules consacrées par l'Acte constitutif apparaît alors en pleine lumière, car si les idéologies ont disparu, les  idées sont bien vivantes, et les idéaux demeurent. Quelle erreur ce serait que de réduire le droit international ou  la coopération entre les nations à l'établissement de normes économiques ou à la fixation de contingents de  produits agricoles ou manufacturés, quand nous avons la chance aujourd'hui de pouvoir édifier cette autre paix,  en renforçant les grands objectifs que l'Acte constitutif assigne à notre action et qui sont au fondement du  progrès humain !
16.23 Ainsi l'UNESCO peut-elle désormais accomplir, sans craindre l'enlisement dans les aléas des  controverses, l'une de ses missions essentielles : rapprocher par la libre communication des acteurs, dans une  réflexion active et dans une action réfléchie, la "société des esprits" évoquée avant-guerre par Paul Valéry de la  société organisée des nations et de la communauté internationale des décideurs. Le Président de la République  française a su formuler les enjeux essentiels, lorsqu'il a déclaré ici même : "j'appelle l'ensemble des Etats à  venir rejoindre aujourd'hui cette sorte de puissance mondiale de la pensée et de la création que vous entendez  aujourd'hui représenter”, et qui doit constituer "une enceinte responsable capable de proposer des lignes de  conduite et de prendre des engagements au nom des Etats qui s'y retrouvent”.
16.24 Utopie ? Entre 1945, date à laquelle l'UNESCO fut conçue parmi les ruines, et le début de la guerre  froide, il avait fallu renier, en deux ans à peine, la grande ambition des pères fondateurs. L'histoire de la genèse  de l'UNESCO, c'est celle des illusions perdues. En renonçant à l'idéal d'une coopération fondée sur une  compréhension réciproque universelle, Jacques Maritain avait, dès 1947, avec lucidité, restreint les objectifs de  l'UNESCO au strict minimum. Constatant qu'à défaut de rechercher une communauté de pensée, elle pouvait  s'unir autour des finalités de l'action, Maritain concluait que l'accord à l'UNESCO pouvait s'établir "sur une  commune pensée pratique”. Admettant que cela était peu, il ajoutait que "c'était le dernier réduit de l'accord des  esprits”, mais que cela suffisait “pour entreprendre une grande oeuvre”.
16.25 Sans cette profonde leçon de pragmatisme et de sagesse politique, l'UNESCO aurait-elle survécu ?  René Maheu lui-même continuait de penser, à la fin de sa vie, que la vie de l'Organisation avait été à ce prix.  Mais c'était pour ajouter aussitôt "qu'en prenant comme critère majeur pour la détermination du programme les  avantages de ses effets, et non plus la valeur de ses fins, on acceptait, dès le départ, une dévaluation de  l'Organisation par rapport à ses ambitions fondamentales premières”.
16.26 J'ajouterai une seconde conséquence : sur les ruines du dialogue véritable et de la pensée critique a  longtemps proliféré "la langue de bois de ceux qui parlent sur ordre ou au nom d'un ordre”, comme nous l'a dit  encore le Président de la République française. Si chacun aujourd'hui réapprend à se parler, alors l'UNESCO,  elle aussi, peut réapprendre à être, et à s'exprimer. Face à la langue de bois qui est le jargon du déboisement,  qui tarit à sa source la sève de nos langues et les déracine, il nous faut désormais, comme aime parfois à le dire  mon collègue et ami Eduardo Portella, "reboiser” la langue. Méditer et susciter l'entrecroisement des langages,  des discours, des créations. Et donc être à l'écoute. À l'écoute de la terre, comme le font les Indiens d'Amérique,  en approchant l'oreille du soi. À l'écoute de l'histoire. À l'écoute des générations futures.
16.27 Le monde ne peut pas vivre sans boussole. Rendant visite voici un quart de siècle à la Conférence  générale, le Général De Gaulle avait estimé que l'UNESCO pouvait fournir à l'humanité les points de repères  qu'elle se cherche, puisque l'Organisation a, je le cite, "pour raison d'être de servir l'unité humaine”, qui "ne  procède que de l'esprit”. C'est, je crois, une idée analogue qu'a évoquée à cette session le chef de la délégation  roumaine. "L'Universel, a-t-il dit, fut l'étoile qui éclaira la naissance de l'UNESCO et le travail de nos pères  fondateurs : ceux qui, comme leurs ancêtres, les philosophes des Lumières, nous ont légué le devoir irréductible  de penser et de défendre, fermement, l'universalité des droits de l'homme”. Cet Universel, a-t-il ajouté, "que l'on  ne reconnaît plus, comme au temps de Hegel, dans l'homme providentiel traversant l'histoire sur son cheval  blanc ; mais au contraire, dans cet ensemble de délégués discrètement attelés à leur tâche (...) dans cette salle  où, à chaque table, les lumières clignotent sur des liasses de dossiers”. Universel pluriel par conséquent,  universel naissant au croisement des voies multiples de la diversité. Universel qui est une rose des vents, car  l'UNESCO n'est ni du Nord ni du Sud ni de l'Est ni de l'Ouest, mais doit être au service de l'humanité tout  entière. Comme l'a souligné l'un de mes prédécesseurs, "il faut qu'elle devienne la conscience de chacun pour  Être la volonté de tous”.
16.28 Devant la force des témoignages que nous avons entendus, je suis convaincu que l'universalité  intellectuelle, culturelle, scientifique qui est la raison d'être de l'UNESCO finira par coincider, à plus ou moins  brève échéance, avec l'universalité géographique et politique.
16.29 Monsieur le Président, durant plus de trois semaines, j'ai écouté chacun des chefs de délégation.  Nombre d'entre eux ont souligné qu'il fallait "viser haut". D'autres ont préconisé la modestie, et la réduction de  nos ambitions. Je ne vois pas d'incompatibilité entre ces démarches. Pour ma part, j'ai souligné le caracière  complémentaire du réalisme - qui nous invite, au nom de l'efficacité, à concentrer notre action - et de  l'idéalisme auquel nous ne saurions renoncer sans renier les idéaux de l'Acte constitutif.
16.30 Jai noté qu'au cours de cette session, ceux-là même qui étaient les plus favorables au pragmatisme  gestionnaire n'en ont pas moins estimé qu'il fallait renforcer le rôle intellectuel de l'UNESCO, parce que, selon  la formule de l'un d'entre vous, "le temps de la responsabilité intellectuelle et culturelle des Etats et des peuples  est revenu”. J'ai aussi observé que nombre de délégués se sont prononcés en faveur d'une consolidation, voire  d'une réactualisation, des trois contrats hélas trop souvent résiliés qui sont le fondement de toute construction  effective, aujourd'hui, de l'universalité. Contrat moral d'abord, peut-être le plus fondamental de tous, puisque  c'est sur la base de ses clauses que peuvent et doivent s'instaurer le respect de l'autre, la renonciation à la  violence, l'éthique de négociation et de solidarité que j'ai évoquée tout à l'heure. Là où certains ne veulent voir,  encore trop souvent, que des endettés, le contrat moral doit être passé entre des partenaires égaux en dignité et  en droits. Contrat social ensuite, et même contrat social international dont les principes sont le fondement de la  démocratie, mais dont les clauses doivent aussi porter sur la population et le développement. Contrat naturel  enfin, que chacun doit passer avec la planète Terre, pour préserver l'héritage que nous devons transmettre aux  générations futures, et que trop souvent le droit de la guerre, la violence industrielle, mais aussi l'aveuglement  des contrats sociaux ont ignoré et négligé. La solidarité est aujourd'hui la forme supérieure non seulement de la  sécurité, mais du développement et de la culture. La sagesse africaine est un bon guide, qui nous enseigne, par  un chant populaire du Mali, que "l'amour est la seule chose que le partage grandit”.
16.31 Archibald MacLeish l'avait souligné à la Conférence de Londres : l'UNESCO doit viser "le  développement de la compréhension entre les nations, compréhension réalisée non seulement entre les  gouvernements ou entre les hommes de science, mais entre les peuples du monde eux-mêmes”. Tâche  impossible, disent les sceptiques. J'ai dit parfois que le possible des hommes de courage, c'est l'impossible des  pusillanimes. Je vous l'ai dit un jour - c'était il y a quatre ans, à l'occasion de mon installation - qui voudrait  qu'on lui appliquât le terrible mot de Camus : "... alors qu'ils pouvaient tant, ils ont osé si peu” ? Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. You have once again shown how deep is your  commitment and your dedication to this Organization; as UNESCO moves into a new phase, I am sure that all  of us here, and in particular the members of the Executive Board, will consistently contribute to enhancing the  scope and the work of the Organization, working together to achieve its high ideals and objectives.
172 Through you, Mr Director-General, I wish to thank the members of the Secretariat - in the first place,  the Secretary of the General Conference, Mr Pio Rodriguez, his staff, the staff in the commissions and in the  plenary, the very efficient interpreters and translators, as well as all of those whom we do not see, in the  printing departments and typing pools, in the telephone and technical services, and elsewhere. Tribute is also  due to the exceptional professional expertise and dedication of the Secretariat staff, who have laboured day and  night to ensure the success of our work.
17.3 Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for the President of the General Conference to make his closing  speech, so you will forgive me if I invite myself to take the floor.
174 My dear friend, Yahya Aliyu, Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Federico  Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to you all the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference has been a  success, a big success, imbued as it was with an all-pervading dynamic that permitted us to take many  important decisions. These decisions will be of consequence to the Member States, to the Organization itself,  and above all, to all those men, women and children from all climes who have high expectations from the  activities of UNESCO and for whom education, science, culture and communication are a vital need.
17.5 — The last two years have witnessed epoch-making changes: the collapse of the social order in Central  and Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union; the end of the Cold War, the Gulf War and its consequences, and  the political upheavals that are sweeping across Africa, among others. Consequently, we are told by the experts  that a whole system of thought has been jettisoned. Terms such as Imperialism’, ‘Class struggle’, ‘Socialism’,  "Third World' - which formed part of the basic vocabulary of the old intellectual system - have all become  unfashionable. But is imperialism a non-word? Is the Third World a misnomer, an anachronism, because it is  all one world now? Are we not forgetting that the Third World is not a category: it is a relationship between the  rich countries of the North and the poor countries of the South. Is not the current mass discontent with Ancien  Régimes in Africa attributable to the dramatic fall in the quality of life over the past two decades? There is  therefore a need for a humane foundation; our common future must be the object of a common search, to which
27   all countries and all regions must contribute. Urgency and necessity must be our watchwords as we try together  to envision the future in terms of our past experience.
17.6 There was a time when it was believed by the development experts that all parts of the world should  eventually look like the industrial West. But today, as human civilization strains against the ecological limits of  the planet, it is becoming clear that the Earth cannot sustain the continual expansion of industrial progress. We  are today confronted with a nightmare of ecological catastrophe: over-population, ozone depletion, global  warming, acid rain, toxic waste, nuclear accidents and worse. This dilemma facing mankind today reminds us  of the answer the late Mahatma Ghandi gave when he was asked how long it would take independent India to  reach the level of development that Britain had attained. He answered that it has taken Britain, which at that  time owned half the planet, over 300 years to attain such a level of industrial development. Turning the  question around, he in turn asked: how many planets will India need to achieve the same level of development?  One could extend this question to other areas: for example, how many planets will China, with her huge  population, need to achieve the same level of development as the West?
17.7 UNESCO, with its rich past, can greatly contribute to the search for a common future. As many heads  of delegation stated clearly in this forum, there is an urgent need for serious intellectual debate on global  problems under the aegis of UNESCO. For what is being asked of our Organization, more than ever before, is  to give concrete answers to far-reaching questions that are daunting by their very nature.
178 It must be stressed that the concentration of the Organization's programmes has been one of the most  important features of this session of the General Conference. And this reflects both the need for a more compact  set of actions in terms of efficient programme execution and the common aspirations of the Member States,  which are increasingly giving more attention to problems at regional and international levels. This is indeed a  very positive tendency, in which countries of different latitudes have a common perception of the impact of a  series of different phenomena, that extend from the need for a deeper dialogue between cultures to the fostering  of common strategies in the field of ecology. And this tendency, of course, is a result of the strengthening of  international co-operation at its highest level, where the political will recognizes the need for concertation and  the peaceful solution of conflicts.
17.9 During the last two years, and in particular during this session of the General Conference, UNESCO  has made great strides towards the improvement of its methods of work. On the one hand, the Executive Board  and the General Conference have made important improvements in their methods of work, which must be  assessed not only in terms of economies made but also in qualitative terms of a coming back to the roots of  UNESCO itself, to its constitutional purpose and to its essentially intellectual mission. On the other hand, the  efforts of the Director-General to streamline the Secretariat, to render flexible its action and its capacity to  respond to ever-growing needs, have on the whole been successful, and as the new biennium begins, it is  certain that the efforts towards decentraliztion will be accelerated and will result in a more concrete perception,  on the part of the Member States, of what UNESCO really can mean for each of them in concrete terms.
17.10 I must add here that UNESCO, as a Specialized Agency, cannot rely on the Secretariat alone. If the  Member States do not create the necessary structures at local level, that is, if they do not create and strengthen  their National Commissions and if they do not give them the necessary means for concerted action, there will  obviously be a communication gap between themselves and their Organization and a deep distortion in terms of  expectations. In many countries, these structures exist and they have turned out to be an essential factor in the  dynamic of UNESCO's action. This is the only way to ensure that the expectations of Member States are  coherently expressed at the local level and the only way in which the action of the Secretariat can find a basis  for its catalytic role.
17.11 Our contention is that UNESCO already has a framework for its constant improvement and that it is  unnecessary, and even dangerous, to become victims of the bureaucratic syndrome that leads from the need for  reform to the obsession with economy and managerial efficiency. This can easily lead an organization to  paralysis, and in the case of UNESCO, with the very limited means at its disposal, it must be stressed that  reform can only be an ongoing process, in which its three main organs, each in its own way, can contribute to  its success. In this sense, the amendments to the Constitution adopted at the present session, the reforms  undertaken by the Executive Board to improve its methods of work, and the efforts of the Director-General to  streamline and improve the efficiency of the Secretariat constitute a dynamic whole based on the will of all the  Member States to create a new dynamic, not for its own sake but in response to the needs and expectations of  their peoples at many different levels.
17.12 By ridding the Organization of ideological strife and by reasserting the universal character of  UNESCO, we have, in my view, succeeded in creating a new vital environment in which major initiatives can  be taken, without any suspicion of domination or manipulation. We have thus committed ourselves, in a very  solemn fashion I think, to the ideals that must guide UNESCO's action. In this context, and in my capacity as  President of the General Conference, I would like to launch an open appeal to the United States, to the United  Kingdom and to Singapore to regain their places in our Organization so that together we can fulfil our mission  to humanity. For we have before us, all together, a unique opportunity to strengthen UNESCO and to transform  it into an efficient tool for the realization of those noble ideals for which it was founded 45 years ago. Thank  you.
17.13 Inow give the floor to the Director-General.
18. The DIRECTOR-GENERAI .;  Mr President, it is my honour and pleasure to offer you, as the President of the twenty-sixth session of  the General Conference, this gavel which you may in a moment, if you so wish, use to close the session.  (The Director-General presented Mr Ogot with a gavel)
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close, I shall invite the  UNESCO staff choir Les Voix Unies' and the Orfeo International Orchestra to perform the C Major Te Deum  by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The conductor is Jorge Lozano Corres.  (The Conference heard a rendering of Mozart's Te Deum in C Major)
19.2 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for that moving performance. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare the twenty-sixth  session of the General Conference closed. We shall meet again here in Paris in October 1993.  La séance est levée a 12 h.35  The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12.35