Dix-huitième séance plénière
26 octobre 1991, à 10 h.20  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Eighteenth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the eighteenth plenary meeting.
1.2 This morning, we are going to take up item 12.1 of the agenda, Election of members of the Executive  Board’, for which we have the following documents: 26 C/NOM/2 and Corr., 26 C/NOM/INF.1, Rev.
26 C/NOM/2.1 to 26 C/NOM/2.47 and finally 26 C/136.
1.3 I give the floor to the Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee, Ms Rosario Manalo, to present her  report on item 12.1 of the agenda.
2.1 Ms MANALO (Philippines), Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, in accordance with Rule 30, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the Nominations Committee, at its third and fourth meetings held on 21 and 24 October 1991,  examined the nominations received for the 25 vacant seats on the Executive Board. The Committee had before  it document 26 C/NOM/2, the series of documents from 26 C/NOM/2.1 to 26 C/NOM/2.47 and document
2.2 At the third meeting, the delegate of Niger, Chairman of Subgroup V(a) (African States) requested  that the following statement concerning the composition of Group V be included in the record of the  proceedings: "Electoral Group V consists in fact of two distinct subgroups, which are Subgroup V(a), composed  of the African States, and Subgroup V(b}, made up of the Arab States. The two Subgroups are sharing the ten  seats falling due to them at the present session of the General Conference as follows: six seats for  Subgroup V(a) and four seats for Subgroup V(b)".
2.3 The delegate of Kuwait, Chairman of Subgroup V(b), confirmed the statement made by the delegate of  Niger on behalf of Subgroup V(a). He further announced that for the purposes of the present elections, the four  candidates submitted by the Arab Subgroup, applying the Subgroup's criteria for nominations to the Executive  Board are the following: Mr Ali Mustafa Benalashhar (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Mr Mongi Chemli (Tunisia),  Mr Ali Mohamed Fakhro (Bahrain) and Mr Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan (Oman).
24 The delegate of Algeria informed the Committee that no consensus had been reached by the Subgroup  and that Algeria maintained its candidate, Mr Mohamed Amine Bourokba.
2.5 The delegate of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya supported the statement by the delegate of Kuwait,  Chairman of Subgroup V(b).
2.6 During the fourth meeting, following an inquiry by the delegate of Ethiopia concerning the  distribution of the ten seats shared by Subgroups V(a) and V(b), which prompted several other delegates to take  the floor, the Chairwoman decided to maintain the position on the matter adopted by the Committee at its third  meeting.
2.7 The delegate of Ethiopia requested that his reservations concerning this position be placed on record.
2.8 On arriving later on, the Chairman of Subgroup V(a) confirmed again the statement he had made at  the Committee's third meeting, which reflected the agreement reached between the two Subgroups to the effect  that Subgroup V(a) (African States) should have six seats and Subgroup V(b) (Arab States) four seats at the  twenty-sixth session of the General Conference.
29 On behalf of the Central African Subgroup, the delegate of Zaire announced the withdrawal of the  nomination of Mr Jean-Robert Eboulia (Gabon).
2.10 Having taken note of these statements, the Nominations Committee drew up the following list, by  Electoral Group and in alphabetical order of the candidates’ names, for submission to the General Conference:  Group I (five seats to be filled, eight candidates): Mr Jean-Pierre Angrémy (France), Mr Salvino Busuttil  (Malta), Mr Talat S. Halman (Turkey), Mr Alexander Keynan (Israel), Mr Torben Krogh (Denmark),  Mr Heinz Loeffler (Austria), Mr José Augusto Seabra (Portugal) and Mr Johannes Sizoo (Netherlands);  Group II (two seats to be filled, two candidates): Mr Dan Haulica (Romania) and Mr Vladimir B. Lomeiko  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics); Group III (three seats to be filled, seven candidates): Mr Mariano  Baptista Gumucio (Bolivia), Mr Raymond Chassagne (Haiti), Mr Alvaro Da Costa Franco (Brazil),  Mr Gonzalo Giueroa Yañez (Chile), Mr Rex Nettleford (Jamaica), Ms Gloria Pachén de Galan (Colombia) and  Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna (Peru); Group IV (five seats to be filled, seven candidates): Mr Tae-Hyuk Hahm  (Republic of Korea), Mr Jalat Khan Hekmaty (Afghanistan), Ms Attiya Inayatullah (Pakistan), Mr Barry O.  Jones (Australia), Mr Wataru Miyakawa (Japan), Ms Lourdes R. Quisumbing (Philippines) and Mr Hassan  Sadough Vanini (Islamic Republic of Iran); Group V(a) (six seats to be filled, nine candidates): Mr Kumsa  Gabeyehu (Ethiopia), Mr Balla Keita (Côte d'Ivoire), Ms Danièle Limbassa (Central African Republic),  Mr Gilles Nageon de Lestang (Seychelles), Mr Pedro Domingos Peterson (Angola), Mr Guy Rajaonson  (Madagascar), Mr Mwindaace N. Siamwiza (Zambia), Ms Thérèse Eppie Striggner Scott (Ghana) and  Mr Thomas Tlou (Botswana); Group V(b) (four seats to be filled, five candidates): Mr Ali Mustafa Benalashhar  (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Mr Mohamed Amine Bourokba (Algeria), Mr Mongi Chemli (Tunisia), Mr Ali  Mohamed Fakhro (Bahrain) and Mr Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan (Oman).
2.11 The Committee also decided to recommend to the General Conference that it invite the Executive  Board to consider which Electoral Groups the four new Member States of UNESCO should join and to report to  the General Conference thereon at its twenty-seventh session,
2.12 Thank you, Mr President.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairwoman of the Nominations Committee for her very clear presentation.
3.2 Does the General Conference endorse the final recommendation by the Committee? I see no objections.
3.3 It is so decided.
3.4 I now give the floor to the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee.
(4) Mme PRERA FLORES (Guatemala), Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs présente à la Conférence générale, dans  son quatrième rapport supplémentaire, la situation des Etats membres pour ce qui est de l'accréditation de leurs  délégations. Sur le total de 163 Etats membres, 161 ont présenté leurs pouvoirs. Ce sont donc ces Etats qui sont  habilités à participer au présent scrutin. Les deux Etats qui n'ont pas présenté leurs pouvoirs sont le Cambodge et  Kiribati. Je dois informer la Conférence générale que, conformément aux règles établies, ces deux Etats ne  pourront voter lors de la présente élection. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I shall give the floor to the Secretary of the Conference for further clarification on this matter.
6. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. En effet, deux Etats membres ne peuvent pas voter parce qu'ils n'ont pas  présenté leurs pouvoirs. Trois autres Etats membres ne peuvent pas voter en raison du montant de leurs arriérés  de contributions. Cela fait donc cing en tout, Monsieur le Président.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now we are clear about the candidates and about who can and who cannot vote.
7.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference must now proceed to elect 25 members of the  Executive Board by secret ballot.
7.3 In conformity with Rule 2 of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, I request Ms Sirnoi  Pouatung of Thailand, Ms Lisette Bloch of El Salvador, Mr Mohammed Basguirs of Morocco and Mr Jacques  Boisson of Monaco kindly to agree to act as tellers, and I invite them to take seats by the ballot box.  (The four tellers took their places beside the ballot box)
7.4 I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference who will explain the procedure to be  followed.
8. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, voici donc la procédure  qui sera appliquée. Le Secrétariat distribuera aux délégations une enveloppe avec cinq bulletins de vote de  couleur différente, correspondant aux cinq groupes électoraux. Chaque bulletin porte les noms de tous les  candidats présentés pour le groupe électoral en question. Les votants barreront les noms des candidats pour  lesquels ils ne souhaitent pas voter. Seront considérés comme des abstentions les bulletins sur lesquels tous les  noms auront été barrés. Sera considéré comme nul, tout bulletin sur lequel 11 restera plus de noms qu'il n'y a de  sièges à pourvoir dans le groupe électoral auquel se rapporte ce bulletin. Ne sera pas considéré comme nul un  bulletin sur lequel il restera moins de noms qu'il n'y a de sièges à pourvoir dans le groupe électoral auquel se  rapporte ce bulletin. Les délégations seront appelées successivement par le Secrétaire dans l'ordre alphabétique  français des Etats membres, en commençant par la Grenade dont le nom a été tiré au sort, et elles déposeront  leurs bulletins, placés sous une seule enveloppe, dans l'une se trouvant devant la tribune. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretariat informs me that the ballot papers have been distributed. If any  delegation has not received them, please inform the Secretariat immediately. I take it that all delegations have  received ballot papers.
9.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is confusion because some of the five States that we said could not  vote are asking for ballot papers. Would the Secretary please read out the names of the five States that are  disqualified.
10. Le SECRETAIRE :  Les trois Etats membres qui ont des arriérés de contributions, Monsieur le Président, sont le Bénin, le  Cap-Vert et la Guinée-Bissau. Ceux qui n'ont pas présenté leurs pouvoirs sont le Cambodge et Kiribati. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
11. The PRESIDENT:  The Secretary will now call delegations one after another according to the French alphabetical order of  the names of Member States, beginning with Grenada. Each delegation is invited to come and deposit its  envelope in the ballot box when its country's name is called. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Argentina.
(12) M. ZAIN ASIS (Argentine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, j'aimerais savoir s'il est possible de demander a la Conférence générale, dans le  cadre de cette séance plénière, que les pays qui ne sont pas habilités à voter puissent le faire à la demande  spéciale des États membres. Ce que je propose, très exactement, c'est que soient admis à voter les Etats qui, pour  des raisons diverses, ne sont pas habilités à le faire. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I shall give the floor to the Legal Adviser because there are two categories. One category is composed  of States that have not presented any credentials - I really do not see how they can vote; and then there is the  other category, which includes three States which are in arrears; according to our rules, they are not entitled to  vote. I give the floor to the Legal Adviser.
14. Le CONSEILLER JURIDIQUE :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. En vertu de l'Acte constitutif, les Etats qui n'ont pas présenté  leurs lettres d'accréditation ne peuvent pas voter. Deuxièmement, ne peuvent pas voter non plus les Etats qui ne  sont pas en règle du paiement de leurs contributions. Cependant, aux termes de l'article IV.C.8 (c), si la  Conférence générale le décide, ces Etats, qui n'ont pas payé leurs contributions, pourront voter.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of France.
16. Mme CABANA (France) :  Monsieur le Président, compte tenu des explications fournies par notre Conseiller juridique, j'appuie la  proposition du représentant de l'Argentine.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegates of Angola.
(18) M. QUARTA (Angola) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. L'Angola appuie, comme vient de le faire la France, la proposition du  délégué de l'Argentine.
19. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Mauritania.
20. M. OULD DEIDA (Mauritanie) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. La Mauritanie appuie la proposition faite par le représentant  de l'Argentine. Je vous remercie.
21.1 The PRESIDENT:  It seems to me that everybody wishes to second the proposal. We are not concerned with the two States  that have not submitted credentials: they cannot vote. We are only discussing the other three. Is it your wish  that the three States which have not paid their dues, and which have not requested to be allowed to vote, be  permitted to do so? I see no objections.
21.2 — Itis so decided.
21.3 May I now ask the Secretariat to distribute ballot papers to the three States that had been denied them.  (The vote was taken by roll call)
214 We have now completed the first call of delegations. I shall now proceed to a second call for all  delegations which have not voted.  (A further call was made)
21.5 Ladies and gentlemen, the voting is now closed. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 10bis in the  Appendix to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the votes will be counted in another room, in  this case Room VII, under the supervision of a Vice-President of the General Conference. I therefore invite Mr  Federico Edjo Ovono of Equatorial Guinea, Vice-President of the General Conference, to supervise the  counting of the votes. The ballot box is locked, and I shall hand over the key to Mr Edjo Ovono. No Member  State is allowed to enter Room VII.
216 Iwill now suspend the meeting. We shall resume the meeting at 2. p.m. for the results of the vote and,  if necessary, for a second or even third round of voting. The meeting is suspended.  (The meeting was suspended at 11.30 am.)  (It was resumed at 14.55 p.m.)
21.7 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is called to order. I am sorry we have kept you waiting, but the  tellers and the supervisor of the election wished to do their job thoroughly. I shall now read out the results of  the vote in the election of members of the Executive Board.
21.8 Group I, in which there are five seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 7; number of votes recorded: 151;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 76; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Mr Jean-Pierre Angrémy: 123;  Mr Torben Krogh: 116; Mr Johannes Sizoo: 110; Mr Talat S. Halman: 104; Mr José Augusto Seabra: 97;  Mr Heinz Loeffler: 95; Mr Salvino Busuttil: 45; Mr Alexander Keynan: 43.
219 Mr Jean-Pierre Angrémy (France), Mr Torben Krogh (Denmark), Mr Johannes Sizoo (Netherlands),  Mr Talat S. Halman (Turkey), and Mr José Augusto Seabra (Portugal) having obtained the majority required, 1  declare them elected.  (Applause)
21.10 Group Il, in which there are two seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 2; number of votes recorded: 156;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be clected: 79, names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Mr Vladimir B. Lomeiko: 153;  Mr Dan Haulica: 152.
21.11 Mr Vladimir B. Lomeiko (USSR) and Mr Dan Haulica (Romania) having obtained the majority  required, I declare them glected.  (Applause)
21.12 Group II], in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 8; number of votes recorded: 150;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 76; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Mr Alvaro Da Costa Franco: 95;  Ms Gloria Pachôn de Galan: 88; Mr Rex Nettleford: 79; Mr Gonzalo Figueroa Yafiez: 67; Mr Mariano Baptista  Gumucio: 39; Mr Alberto Wagner de Reyna: 35; Mr Raymond Chassagne: 21.
21.13 Mr Alvaro Da Costa Franco (Brazil), Ms Gloria Pachén de Galan (Colombia) and Mr Rex Nettleford  (Jamaica) having obtained the majority required, I declare them elected,  (Applause)
21.14 Group IV, in which there are five seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 7; number of votes recorded: 151;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 76; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Mr Wataru Miyakawa: 138;  Mr Tae-Hyuk Hahm: 128; Mr Barry O. Jones: 121; Ms Attiya Inayatullah: 112; Ms Lourdes R. Quisumbing;
21.15 Mr Wataru Miyakawa (Japan), Mr Tae-Hyuk Hahm (Republic of Korea), Mr Barry O. Jones  (Australia), Ms Attiya Inayatullah (Pakistan) and Ms Lourdes R. Quisumbing (Philippines) having obtained the  required majority, I declare them glected.  (Applause)
21.16 Group V(a), in which there are six seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 8; number of votes recorded: 150;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 76; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Ms Thérèse Eppie Striggner  Scott: 125; Mr Mwindaace N. Siamwiza: 124; Mr Balla Keita: 117; Mr Thomas Tlou: 97; Mr Guy  Rajaonson: 92; Mr Gilles Nageon de Lestang: 84; Mr Pedro Domingos Peterson: 82; Ms Danièle Limbassa: 72;  Mr Kumsa Gabeyeho: 51.
2.17 Ms Thérèse Eppie Striggner Scott (Ghana), Mr Mwindaace N. Siamwiza (Zambia), Mr Balla Keita  (Côte d'Ivoire), Mr Thomas Tlou (Botswana), Mr Guy Rajaonson (Madagascar) and Mr Gilles Nageon de  Lestang (Seychelles) having obtained the required majority, I declare them elected.  (Applause)
21.18 Group V(b), in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 161; absent: 3; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 8; number of votes recorded: 150;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 76; names of the candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Mr Mongi Chemli: 133; Mr Musa  Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan: 127; Mr Ali Mohamed Fakhro: 113; Mr Mohamed Amine Bourokba: 109; Mr Ali  Mustafa Benalashhar: 66.
21.19 Mr Mongi Chemli (Tunisia), Mr Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan (Oman), Mr Ali Mohamed Fakhro  (Bahrain) and Mr Mohamed Amine Bourokba (Algeria) having obtained the majority required, I declare them  elected.  (Applause)
21.20 Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we do not need a second ballot. I congratulate all those who  have been elected and I wish to express thanks, in the name of the General Conference, to our Vice-President,  Mr Edjo Ovono, who supervised the counting, and to the four tellers who carried out their task in a most  diligent manner.
21.21 In accordance with a decision adopted by the Executive Board at its 132nd session, I appeal to all  concerned to start consultations regarding the election of the officers of the Executive Board, which will take  place the day following the end of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference. In my capacity as  President of the General Conference, I am at the disposal of all concerned by these elections in order to play a  catalytic role in the consultations.
21.22 Thank you. The plenary is adjourned until Monday at 10 o'clock.  La séance est levée à 15 h.10  The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 15.10
3aceranne 3aKpbIBaërcs B 15.10  Haas SANE PWNS SIN PEP  ST ISB 104257