Troisième séance plénière
16 octobre 1991, à 10 h.30  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya),  Third plenary meeting
41   INSCRIPTION DE NOUVEAUX POINTS A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  INSCRIPTION OF NEW ITEMS IN THE AGENDA  INSCRIPCION DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA  BK/IIOUEHHE HOBLIX IIYHKTOB B MOBECTKY JIHS  Jlae¥l Jgaa 0 Basse Sets Clos  SEN HI IL EM A
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the third plenary meeting. The General Committee met for the  first time this morning and among the items it examined was the question of the addition of new items to the  agenda for the General Conference; in conformity with Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, these three new  items are to be submitted to you for your approval. The three new items proposed are as follows: (1) Intellectual  co-operation at UNESCO (an item proposed by France); (2) Directives concerning UNESCO's relations with  foundations and similar institutions (an item proposed by the Director-General); (3) World report on culture  and development (an item proposed by the Executive Board). The General Committee recommends that the  General Conference approve the addition of these new items to the agenda; if the Conference so decides, they  could become items 15.1, 15.2 and 15.3. Consideration of item 15.1, that is, Intellectual co-operation at  UNESCO, proposed by France, will be assigned to plenary in the context of the general debate; item 15.2,  proposed by the Director-General will be assigned to Commission I; and item 15.3, proposed by the Executive  Board, will be assigned to Commission IV.
1.2 May I now ask whether the General Conference approves the recommendation of the General  Committee to add those three items to our agenda. I see no objections.
1.3 It is so decided.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuacién)  OPTAHHU3 AILS PABOThI
(2255) Jlae¥l 15  MR TERHE (8)
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now take up item 1.6, Organization of the work of the twenty-sixth session of the General  Conference. I wish to draw your attention to document 26 C/2, and its Addendum and Corrigendum, which  have been prepared by the Director-General in the light of the recommendations made by the Executive Board.  There is, however, one point which was discussed by the General Committee in regard to the organization of  the work of the General Conference, namely the question of arrangements for dealing with draft resolutions  from Member States at the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference. Because of its complex nature, the  General Committee decided to postpone the decision on this important question until Friday, 18 October. So, if  there are no objections, I propose that the General Conference approve the Board's recommendation concerning  the organization of the work of the General Conference with the exception of paragraphs 18 and 21 of  document 26 C/2 concerning the arrangements for dealing with draft resolutions. I am submitting to you the  whole document with the exception of those two paragraphs, which will be taken up on Friday. Is it your wish  that we approve the Board's recommendation? I see no objection.
2.2 It 1s so decided.
42   INTRODUCTION AU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE  INTRODUCTION TO THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  INTRODUCCION AL DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL  BBEJIEHHE K OB CYXJIEHHIO BOITPOCOB OBIIEH TOJIIHTHKH  Calad) Lula) Lh Tania  BARRES
3. The PRESIDENT:  Now, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the next item on the agenda, which is of the utmost  importance to the General Conference; this is the presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board and the  Director-General of their reports on activities, of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, and of all  the items on which the general policy debate will be based. May I now give the floor to Mr Yahya Aliyu,  Chairman of the Executive Board.
4.1 Mr ALIYU (Nigeria), Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as Chairman of the Executive Board, it is an honour and a privilege for  me to introduce the general policy debate at this twenty-sixth session of our General Conference, This  introduction will include a report on the Board's activities during 1990-1991, a presentation of the Director-  General's report on the work of the Organization, and finally the submission, for your consideration, of the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, together with the Board's recommendations thereon.
4,2 During the last two years, the Executive Board has had to deal with a series of complex problems,  concerning the life of the Organization in a rapidly changing international context in which some of the  certainties of yesterday have become the doubts, but perhaps also the hopes of tomorrow.
4.3 At the end of the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference in November 1989, we left this room  fully conscious of the dawning of a new phase in international relations; a phase which was bound to have a  major impact on UNESCO and on its function as the authentic depository of international intellectual co-  operation in its various fields of competence.
4.4 Needless to say, the four Executive Board sessions held since then have taken cognizance of this  situation and this is clearly reflected in the ever-growing awareness of all its members that UNESCO must not  only keep pace with many new aspirations but also that bold initiatives must be taken and that, in consequence,  the Organization must redefine its profile and enhance its action,
4.5 It is in this context that the Executive Board, at its 135th session, decided, upon the recommendation  of its Special Committee, to undertake an ‘in-depth study on the organization and methods of work of  UNESCO, as a member of the United Nations system, in a changing world". This in-depth study was submitted  to the Board at its 137th session as a preliminary report in which important statements are made concerning  basic topics such as UNESCO's achievements in its fields of competence, an overview of the possible evolution  of the role of the United Nations as a whole, the future and main tasks of UNESCO, and the organization and  methods of its work.
4.6 These statements are accompanied by a series of questions which we will have to answer, through  debate and exchange of views in the coming months, So ‘the dialogue has begun' and it must lead us to the  necessary consensus for choosing our new strategy. At its 137th session, the Board considered that the  examination of the topic should continue as a matter of priority, taking into consideration the views of Member  States expressed during the general policy debate as well as other relevant decisions taken by the General  Conference.
4.7 These last two years were also marked by one of the most serious conflicts since the end of the Second  World War: the Gulf crisis. The Executive Board assumed its responsibilities fully during that crisis, in relation  to the execution of the resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations and, in accordance with the  United Nations Charter and the Agreement between UNESCO and the United Nations. This is manifest in the  Board's decisions concerning the destruction of educational, cultural and scientific institutions in Kuwait
(135 EX/Decision 8.4, 136 EX/Decision 9.3 and 137 EX/Decision 9.2).
4.8 It must also be stressed that during this period the Executive Board, as a collective decision-making  body, has discharged its responsibilities as the Constitution instructs it, not only to ensure continuity in carrying  out the wishes of the Member States between sessions of the General Conference - in particular, following  closely the execution of the Approved Programme and Budget for 1990-1991 - but also in view of contributing,  in innovative ways, to the strengthening of the Organization and its action. In this, the Executive Board has  counted on the assistance of the Director-General, whose co-operation is a most valuable element for our work  and for the maintenance of a solid dynamic in respect of the different mandates that the Constitution has given  to the three principal organs of UNESCO.
4.9 At each of its last four sessions, the Executive Board gave careful consideration to the successive  reports on the activities of UNESCO submitted to it by the Director-General. The debates in plenary on those  reports have been extremely fruitful, with the full participation of each member of the Board. The careful  analysis of the various aspects of the execution of the programme has contributed to the enrichment of the  ongoing intellectual debate that is every day more necessary in our Organization.
410 The two commissions of the Board have also taken up different parts of the reports of the Director-  General and on various occasions decisions were adopted on specific items on the recommendation of the  commissions Thus a two-tiered analysis of these reports - in plenary and in the commissions - has allowed us to  examine not only the tangible results of the execution of the programme but also to contribute to important  initiatives, some of which will be submitted to this session of the General Conference, among them are the  UNESCO-Chemobyl project (135 EX/Decision 5.1.1(ID)), the Gorée-Almadies project (136 EX/Decision
5.1.1(B)) and the Arabia Plan (136 EX/Decision 5.4.1).
4.11 = I shall now tum to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, Beginning with the 134th session,  the Board started to put forward recommendations concerning the preparation of this document, which is  fundamental. At subsequent sessions of the Board, all the main issues were addressed as we saw the  Programme and Budget (26 C/5) through the successive phases of its preparation.
4.12 — In its recommendations to the General Conference on document 26 C/5, the Executive Board took note  with satisfaction that the draft programme and budget is, in general, in conformity with the overall framework  and the main lines of emphasis of the Medium-Term Plan. As regards one of the main concerns of the Member  States, programme concentration, the Executive Board noted that progress had been achieved in the various  priority areas. However, it is the considered opinion of the Board that more can be done in this regard.
4.13 The Executive Board also took note with satisfaction of the incorporation of regional strategies, of the  strengthening of the interdisciplinary approach and intersectoral co-operation, of the emphasis placed on the  mobilization of extra-budgetary sources as well as of the efforts made to strengthen collaboration with other  organizations of the United Nations system in the implementation of programme activities.
4.14 In the Board's opinion, all these aspects will contribute to the positive impact of UNESCO's action,  while at the same time stressing the intellectual mission of the Organization. The delicate balance between  these two aspects - the concrete and practical, and the intellectual and future-oriented - is doubtless difficult to  achieve. But every effort must be made to maintain this balance, in order not to lose the specific character of  our Organization,
4.15 In presenting the proposed activities for the consideration of the General Conference, the Board  stressed the fact that these activities should respond to the urgent needs of the three identified target groups: the  lcast developed countries, Member States of the Africa region, and women. In this respect the Board during the  biennium also adopted decisions aimed at the enhancement of the action of the Organization in favour of these  target groups, in particular the least developed countries (134 EX/Decision 5.1, 135 EX/Decision 5.1.1(I) and
136 EX/Decision 5.5.1).
416 The Board likewise considered that there ought to be a greater co-ordination of UNESCO's activities  with those of the other institutions of the United Nations system, and with those of other intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations. As regards co-operation with non-governmental organizations, it was  considered that further efforts should be made to evaluate, rationalize and strengthen this co-operation, while  striving for a better geographical distribution of the organizations, with which UNESCO maintains official  relations. This aspect is closely related to the question of the decentralization of the Organization to which I  will come back later.
4.17 One of the most important elements underlined by the Board was the need to improve the quality of  both internal and external evaluations of the implementation of programme activities and to provide the  necessary means for this purpose.
4.18 These proposals and specific recommendations of the Board concerning each of the seven major  programme areas are contained in document 26 C/6. That document also contains the Board's  recommendations concerning the proposed budget reduction, in which it submits to the General Conference for  consideration its concern that the percentage of staff costs in the total budget is still too high, in spite of the  efforts already made to reduce it (26 C/6).
4.19 Among the many complex problems the Board had to face during this period was the way to respond  to the urgent need for administrative and budgetary reforms in the Organization in order to implement the  programmes, globally defined in the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995), in strict respect for resolutions 40  and 46 adopted by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session.
4.20 In this matter, following certain initiatives taken by the Director-General at the beginning of 1990, the  Board took up the question at its 134th session, in the spring of the same year, engaging in a frank and open-  minded exchange of views with the Director-General which resulted in the adoption of a major decision
(134 EX/Decision 7.3), that reflects the will to proceed in a concerted manner with the Director-General in  matters of reorganization and reform.
4.21 Thus, aspects relating to personnel policy, management methods and policies aimed at improving  administrative procedures and increasing accountability, decentralization, interdisciplinarity and  intersectorality, etc., were the object of a very careful and objective scrutiny on the part of the Board. This  analysis resulted both in the definition of reorganization and reform as an evolving process, and in the  establishment of an active and regular dialogue with the Director-General (135 EX/Decision 7.7 and
136 EX/Decision 8.5).
4.22 It should be underlined that the Executive Board, fully aware of the responsibility assigned to it, was  guided in this matter by a fundamental consideration: that reform measures, however urgent, should not in any  way hamper the execution of the programme and the attainment of the objectives set by the General Conference  in resolutions 40 and 46 adopted at its twenty-fifth session.
4.23 During the period under review, the Board also addressed itself to the process of decentralization of the  Organization. A working group of the Special Committee was set up to deal with the in-depth study on  decentralization. The work of this group led to the formulation of recommendations which must be considered  important contributions to the establishment of a sound policy in this field. These recommendations, fully  cndorsed by the Board, concerned several aspects of the general decentralization policy, the structure and  functions of field offices, the support that the Headquarters should provide for decentralization as well as  specific administrative and financial issues. The recommendations also cover the role of the National  Commissions in decentralization and the important questions of relations between UNDP and UNESCO in the  field.
4.24 Mr President, as decided by the Executive Board at its 137th session, 136 EX/Decision 3.3, concerning  decentralization and which contains the recommendations mentioned above, is submitted to the General  Conference in document 26 C/9 as comments by the Board on the report of the Director-General on the  activities of the Organization in 1988-1989.
4.25 Now, concerning the issue of universality, the Executive Board was most pleased to consider the  application for admission to UNESCO submitted by Tuvalu. Regarding this application, the Board welcomed  especially such requests from States situated in a region in which there are several States that are not yet  members of our Organization.
4.26 In this regard, the Board also examined, during this period, measures taken to restore the universality  of the Organization. Whilst reaffirming its continuing interest in the building up of the Organization's  universality, the Board considered that UNESCO should concentrate more on the efficient execution of its  programme and on the attainment of the objectives set by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session,  including the reform of its structures and working methods. The achievement of these goals, it was felt, would
45   in itself further enhance the importance and prestige of UNESCO and should in the long run contribute to the  attainment of the sought-after universality.
4.27 It is in this spirit and in the fulfilment of its assigned responsibilities, in accordance with  resolution 47.2, adopted by the General Conference at its twenty-fifth session, that the Board faced the task of  reviewing the working procedures of the General Conference, and the improvement of its own working  methods. I am indeed happy to state that the Board made a substantial contribution on this issue during several  of its sessions.
4.28  Asregards the General Conference, the work of the Board is reflected in document 26 C/2, which you  approved this morning. In that document various measures were proposed concerning the limitation of the  duration of speeches by heads of delegations, a reduction in the number of commission meetings, the omission  of the narrative part of reports of the commission and the improvement of the procedures for the processing of  draft resolutions.
4.29 All this involves substantial economies, and so does the reduction in the duration of the twenty-sixth  session by nine days in comparison with that of the twenty-fifth session which would represent by itself an  economy of about US $900,000.
4.30 The Executive Board has also striven during this period to enhance the efficiency of its methods of  work. This was achieved through the streamlining of its procedures, the reduction of the number and volume of  its documentation and also through the reduction of the duration of its sessions during the 1990-1991  biennium. The achieved reduction, which amounts to more than 40 days, represents a saving of some  US $787,000. Thus, the reduction in the duration of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference and of  the Executive Board sessions constitute by themselves a global economy of about US $1,687,000.
4.31 But the action of the Board concerning the improvement of its functioning was not limited to those  that can be quantified only in monetary terms, It is thus that we tried an experiment whereby the Bureau held  an informal meeting during which we reviewed the various questions that had been raised concerning its  working methods, and those of the Board in general.
4.32 — The discussion which took place was relaxed and frank and dealt with issues such as enhanced roles  for the Bureau in the preparation and conduct of the work of the Board; suggestions for meetings of the Board  devoted to the exchange of views on global problems as well as questions of co-ordination of the work of the  Programme and External Relations and Finance and Administrative Commissions, and the enhancement of  dialogue in the Board.
4,33 This experiment was the result of a concern, not to say preoccupation, for continuity in the Executive  Board: the passing-on of the message and the experience of one Executive Board to its successor: a kind of  informal briefing which, hopefully, could be the source of some guidance for those who come after us. Our hope  is that if this experiment helps the new Board to avoid pitfalls that might have dogged our action, then we  would have achieved enough. If however, even only marginally, it leads the Board in the right direction, then  the exercise would have been worth the effort.
4.34 — Mr President, at its 136th session, the Executive Board initiated a process which testifies to the  seriousness with which we approach the execution of our responsibilities. At that session, the Board adopted a  decision to engage in exploratory dialogue with all concerned within our Organization, with a view to  determining the need and the possibility of establishing a committee to advise it on its essential work on  administrative and financial questions.
4.35 After further consideration and consultations, we were able at the 137th session to adopt a decision
(137 EX/Decision 8.6) to: ‘set up on an experimental basis a group of experts on financial and administrative  matters which will be drawn from the Finance and Administrative Commission’, and which will be mandated  to assist the Commission in its work, with a view to strengthening its efficiency and effectiveness.
436 The Executive Board will pursue this question at its 139th session. At that time it will proceed to the  designation of the members of the group, to be composed of two experts from each regional group, and to settle  other issues relating to its functioning.
4.37 In the field of international co-operation, the Executive Board took relevant decisions on the follow-up  to International Literacy Year and the World Conference on Education for All, urging Member States and  international organizations to intensify their efforts to achieve literacy and education for all and calling upon  them to demonstrate their active solidarity with countries facing particularly severe problems of illiteracy and  lacking the resources to tackle the problem effectively without the support of the international community
(136 EX/Decision 5.2.2).
4.38 At its 134th session, the Board stressed the importance of these issues in the framework of the first  meeting of the Joint UNESCO-UNICEF Committee on Education, calling upon the two Organizations to  continue co-operating with other agencies and other partners in the spirit of the Jomtien World Conference on  Education for All.
4.39 At its 136th session, it adopted the recommendations of the second meeting of the Joint UNESCO-  UNICEF Committee on Education, defining a series of priority areas for co-operation to achieve the goals set  by the World Conference on Education for All and by the World Summit for Children (136 EX/Decision 5.2.1).
440 Concerning co-operation with non-governmental organizations, the Executive Board examined the  prerogatives of the General Conference, the Executive Board and the Director-General concerning the granting  of subventions to NGOs, considering that it would be desirable for the Executive Board to be able to submit  recommendations to the General Conference with a view to the approval, by the Conference, of the total sum  for subventions and its distribution by major programme chapters (135 EX/Decision 6.2).
441 At its 136th session, the Board took measures to assure a more rigorous attitude towards those NGOs  that in future fail to comply with the conditions concerning them as laid down in the Directives concerning  UNESCO's relations with international non-governmental organizations.
4.42  Atits 137th session, the Board examined in its agenda item 7.3 the 'granting of subventions to certain  international non-governmental organizations in 1992-1993" and decided to approve the subventions set out in  Annexes 1 to 22 of document 136 EX/5. The Board also took note of the Director-General's decision ‘to replace  those subventions that were previously equal to or less than US $25,000 by contracts .... The Board also  recommended that the General Conference at this session: ‘should approve the appropriations required for the  granting of subventions for which the detailed proposals have already been approved, in principle, by the Board  (Section V of [document 136 EX/5])', especially taking into consideration the priorities of Member States, the  policy of decentralization and the principle of equitable geographical distribution.
443 I now come to the subject of operational activities carried out in close co-operation with both  multilateral and bilateral external funding sources which are an important aspect of UNESCO's participation in  assisting Member States in their development activities. The Executive Board at its 134th session reaffirmed  the validity of the 1970 consensus, particularly with respect to the utilization of United Nations agencies in the  implementation of multilateral technical co-operation programmes and projects (134 EX/5.2). At its 135th  scssion, the Board endorsed the concept expressed in Resolution 44/211 of the United Nations General  Assembly with respect to bringing the technical competence of United Nations organizations more  expeditiously into country programming through the strengthening of the authority and competence of their  field offices and their staff (135 EX/Decision 6.1).
4.44 At the same session, the Board examined the different technical aspects of the new UNDP mechanism  for co-financing technical support services, underscoring the complexity of the new arrangement and the  necessity for a strengthening of the technical co-operation capacities of the Organization.
4.45 In this respect, the Board requested the Director-General to step up his efforts aimed at the provision  of technical advice at the country level by ensuring the necessary increase, especially in the field, in staff time  allocated to operational activities. Whilst supporting the UNDP decision, at the 37th session of its Governing  Council, whereby the process of national execution is to be accelerated during the next cycle, the Board still  reiterated its view that United Nations agencies should continue to be the preferred sources of backstopping for  this modality when such support is required.
4.46 At its 137th session, the Board after having examined the item on the operational activities of the  Organization, including co-operation with UNDP (137 EX/16), urged the Director-General to keep national  authorities and the UNDP Resident Representatives fully informed of UNESCO's broad-ranging fields of
47   competence, so that their forthcoming requests for services for projects, not implemented directly by UNESCO,  may be formulated in full knowledge of the Organization's multiple capacities. It also expressed thanks to  donor countries and decided that the future programme and budget should include US $50,000 earmarked for  in-depth programme evaluation related to operational activities.
4.47 In the field of culture, the questions related to the World Decade for Cultural Development were  examined at the 134th and the 135th sesstons of the Board. At its 134th session, the Board examined the  revised report of the Director-General on the possible setting-up of an international programme for the World  Decade. It approved the proposal for setting-up such a programme (134 EX/Decision 4.3.2) and at its 135th  session, after reaffirming the importance of taking the cultural dimension of development into account in the  international development strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade, it made a series of  recommendations to the Intergovernmental Committee for the World Decade and to the Director-General in  order, among other things, to study the possibility of providing greater support under the regular programme  and the Participation Programme for different aspects of the World Decade.
448 In the framework of its debates on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, the General  Conference will have to take a decision on the proposed international programme already mentioned.
449 Item 4.1 of the agenda of the General Conference, entitled ‘Jerusalem and the implementation of
25 C/Resolution 3.6', was considered by the Board at its 135th and 137th sessions. On both occasions, it had  before it reports prepared by the Director-General and it noted that, despite the various efforts made by the  Director-General, the cultural heritage and the traditional site of the City of Jerusalem are continuing to  undergo modifications.
4.50 The Board consequently invited the Director-General to continue his efforts to secure the dispatch to  Jerusalem of a mission of his representatives, in application of UNESCO's decisions and resolutions. An appeal  was also made to the international community to express and give tangible evidence of its solidarity particularly  by way of voluntary contributions of any kind, so as to enable the Organization to prepare a study of operational  projects with a view to completely safeguarding the heritage of the City of Jerusalem.
451 — At its 137th session, the Board examined the Director-General's report, as well as the report of his  personal representative, Professor Lemaire, on his mission to Jerusalem in July 1991.
4,52 Item 4.4 on the agenda of the General Conference, entitled Implementation of 25 C/Resolution 20  concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories’, was also examined at each of  the last four sessions of the Board.
4.53 At each session, the Board deplored the educational policy pursued in the occupied territories which  jeopardize the operation of the educational and cultural institutions in those territories and invited the Director-  General to persevere in his efforts to ensure, as a matter of urgency the reopening of the educational  institutions.
4.54 And now Mr President, I come to the conclusion of my oral report. Therefore allow me in the first  place to thank most warmly all my colleagues and their deputies for the devotion and the efficiency with which  they acquitted themselves during the past two years when I have had the honour to preside over our  deliberations. But my appreciation goes beyond that, covering the four years during which I have enjoyed their  comradeship as we worked closely and with great commitment for the goal of our Organization.
4.55 But it is particularly as Chairman during the last two years that 1 offer my gratitude because without  their support and the wisdom of their action, the duties they thrust on me in electing me to this office would  have been too daunting for me alone. We have had to deal with many issues, some of which, by their very  nature, were difficult and complicated. But as the valuable contributions of all my colleagues have been directed  towards finding the best solutions for our Organization, it has been gratifying that together we have been able  to surmount every one of the difficulties that emerged in our work.
4,56 My very special thanks go to the chairpersons of the commissions, the committees and the working  groups for their invaluable contributions to the smooth and efficient functioning of the Board.
4.57 My special thanks to Ms Margaretha Mickwitz for the capable, firm but gentle manner in which she  conducted the work of the Programme and External Relations Commission. These qualities no doubt  contributed to the efficient manner in which the Commission accomplished its duties. To our indefatigable  Chairman of the Finance and Administrative Commission, Mr Ananda Guruge who with humour and skill  guided the work of that Commission as it treated a series of often complicated and delicate matters. To  Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad, Chairman of the Special Committee, for the devotion and discernment he brought to  bear on those many important issues that his Committee was called upon to treat. My thanks also go to the  Chairman of the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations, Mr Jorge Cayetano Zain Asis for the  rigour and discernment with which he guided the demanding work of that invaluable body. We will always  remember his infectious enthusiasm, his unfailing good humour and his keen sensitivity to issues concerning  human rights.
4.58 As for Mr Punisa Pavlovic, his long experience, his knowledge of the Organization and his patience  were most valuable attributes which contributed to the efficient performance of his role in guiding the work of  the Committee on International Non-Governmental Organizations, as its Chairman,
4.59 Also please allow me to pay tribute here to my colleagues in the Bureau, especially the Vice-  Chairpersons of the Executive Board, whose wise counsel greatly facilitated my task.
4.60 Other members of the Board are to be thanked for their excellent chairmanship of working groups to  prepare some of our more complex decisions. I refer in particular to Mr Natarajan Krishnan for the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5), Mr Carlos Tunnermann Bernheim for the in-depth study on  decentralization and Mr Luis Ignacio Ramallo for the in-depth study on the organization and methods of work  of UNESCO, as a member of the United Nations system, in a changing world.
4.61 Mr President, allow me now to address myself to the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, who as the  head of the Secretariat has worked in partnership with the Board in the discharge of its duties of overseeing the  rational implementation of the programme, as approved by the General Conference.
4.62 When I took up my functions at the end of 1989 as the Chairman of the Executive Board, I stressed the  importance, in fact the absolute necessity for the Board and the Secretariat to work together and in harmony.  Therefore I pledged myself - my support, my co-operation and my friendship - to the Director-General, and of  course, I had no doubt that he too would react in like manner.
4.63  Itis in this context that the co-operation between the Board and the Director-General at the head of the  Secretariat has taken place in the two years since we last met here. The exchange of views both within the  Board and with the Secretariat have been positive and fruitful. No doubt, divergence's of orientation and even  perception have not always been absent. To expect unity of opinion and views on all the many and varied issues  we had to handle is to deny the complexity of the task that faced us. But through dialogue, exchange of views  and a rigorous adherence to our mandatory responsibilities, we were able to lead our deliberations to solutions  in the best interest of our Organization. In this we were able to count on and receive the co-operation of the  Director-General and his staff, all of whom I would like to thank on behalf of my colleagues on the Board.
4.64 Mr President, I cannot conclude these expressions of thanks and gratitude without mentioning my dear  friend Mr Anwar Ibrahim, President of the General Conference, who in spite of his many other important  responsibilities still found time to make available to the Board, and to me personally, his invaluable counsel on  the important issues before us. I hardly need to mention the positive role he played in ensuring the success of  the Jomtien Conference on Education for All. Mr Anwar Ibrahim's understanding of UNESCO's problems and  his wisdom in treating them is appreciated by us all and we wish him every success in the performance of the  duties that his country and the international community will no doubt continue to entrust to his youthful and  competent hands.
4.65 Mr President, the last two years have been for us on the Executive Board, and indeed for UNESCO, a  period of reaffirmation. The movements and changes in the state of the world that have marked this period  have more than ever before underlined the important place and role of UNESCO in the emerging world order.  Armed with your mandate, and acting in line with your wishes expressed in the programme and budget you  approved two years ago, we have striven, and indeed we have not failed, to ensure that UNESCO continues to  fulfil its role as the depository of international intellectual co-operation.
4.66 This we have done with faith in our established institutions. Also, with courage and caution we have  sought to sharpen our tools for action-streamlining our procedures and taking firmly in hand our duties as the  depository of your authority in between sessions of the General Conference and as the guide and gauge for the  efficient and rational fulfilment of your expressed collective wish.
4.67 Mr President, I believe that I can say on behalf of my colleagues that in this we feel that we have not  failed you. Thank you Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much Mr Aliyu. On behalf of the Conference I should like to express my deep  appreciation for the report you have just submitted as Chairman of the Executive Board. I should also like to  thank you for your dedication and commitment; having worked with you on the Executive Board for the last  four years, I have seen the commitment you have displayed in sometimes very difficult and complex  circumstances. Your patience, wisdom and energy, and your personal contribution to the Board's deliberations,  are appreciated by all. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of  UNESCO, who has made an enormous contribution to the preparation of this session of our General  Conference and to the common work done during the last two years. Mr Federico Mayor.
6.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs,  permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de la  vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale. Vous êtes en effet particulièrement qualifié pour diriger les  débats de la Conférence générale, du fait des multiples fonctions que vous avez assumées non seulement dans  votre pays, notamment comme Doyen de la faculté des lettres et Professeur d'histoire à l'Université Kenyatta,  mais encore au plan international. Votre expérience de l'UNESCO, elle aussi, est longue. Depuis 1971, vous  êtes membre du Comité scientifique international pour la rédaction de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique, comité  que vous avez présidé de 1978 à 1984. Voici quatre ans bientôt que vous êtes membre du Conseil exécutif de  l'UNESCO, dont vous êtes l'un des vice-présidents, En vous portant à ces hautes fonctions, la Conférence  générale a voulu appeler à sa présidence, pour la première fois depuis quinze ans, un représentant de l'Afrique.  Je m'en réjouis tout particulièrement, alors que le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993 place cette  région du monde au premier rang de ses priorités.
6.2 H y a deux ans, lors de la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, alors que l'histoire du  monde connaissait une brusque accélération, les Etats membres adoptèrent le Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-
1995. Ce dernier assignait à notre Organisation la mission de répondre, dans ses domaines de compétence, aux  grands défis du monde contemporain qui ont pour nom la paix, les droits de l'homme, le développement et la  protection de l'environnement. L'évolution intervenue depuis 1989 a confirmé la pertinence des orientations  générales du troisième Plan à moyen terme, tout en mettant en relief la nécessité pour la communauté  internationale de déployer encore plus d'efforts en faveur du dialogue interculturel et d'une culture de la paix.  Dans cette perspective, l'UNESCO devra oeuvrer en rapprochant toujours plus les idées, les savoirs et les  énergies des peuples du monde.
6.3 Durant le présent exercice biennal - qui correspond à la première tranche d'exécution du Plan à moyen  terme - j'ai poursuivi, tout en exécutant le programme approuvé par la Conférence générale, la mise en oeuvre  des réformes destinées à améliorer le fonctionnement de l'Organisation et la structure du Secrétariat. Ces  réformes et ces mesures permettent à présent d'envisager des modifications plus profondes, destinées à mettre  l'Organisation en mesure de répondre aux défis de notre temps et à l'évolution inévitable du système des  Nations Unies dont nous sommes partie intégrante.
6.4 Je rappellerai donc, avant de présenter le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, les  éléments saillants de l'exécution du programme en 1990-1991 ainsi que les principales réformes entreprises.  S'agissant de la mise en oeuvre du programme en 1990-1991, j'ai présenté au Conseil exécutif, à chacune de ses  quatre sessions durant l'exercice biennal, un rapport sur l'activité de l'Organisation qui contient des  informations détaillées sur l'exécution du programme. Ces quatre rapports sont à la disposition des chefs de  délégation. Je ne puis évoquer ici qu'un nombre fort limité d'activités. En outre, pour conserver à cette  introduction une durée raisonnable, je ne présenterai pas oralement cette partie, que vous trouverez dans le  document d'information qui vous sera remis dans les plus brefs délais.!
1 Le texte complet de l'intervention du Directeur générale a été publié dans le document 27 C/INF.11.
6.5 Je dois enfin souligner que durant cet exercice biennal, j'ai tiré de mes visites officielles dans les Etats  membres beaucoup d'enseignements sur leurs besoins, leurs aspirations et leurs attentes quant à la coopération  multilatérale. J'ai chaque fois pris, en tenant compte des moyens disponibles, les mesures qui s'imposaient au  niveau de la conception et de l'exécution de notre programme. Je tiens à exprimer devant la Conférence  générale ma gratitude aux chefs d'Etat et de gouvernement, aux ministres et aux responsables nationaux qui  m'ont reçu et qui m'ont fait part de leurs analyses et de leurs précieux conseils.
6.6 Comme je l'indiquais au début de mon exposé, l'exercice 1990-1991 aura été marqué par-un  approfondissement de la réforme de l'UNESCO, tant à l'initiative des Etats membres qu'à la mienne. Cet effort  a paru d'autant plus s'imposer que depuis la vinet-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, la situation  internationale a profondément changé. L'époque de transition où nous vivons donne aux organisations de la  famille des Nations Unies une chance unique depuis l'après-guerre. Mais elle leur impose en même temps une  épreuve de vérité : ou le système multilatéral s'adapte en profondeur, ou il prend le risque, au terme d'un  progressif déclin, de s'effacer devant une nouvelle génération d'institutions qui pourraient se multiplier en  dehors de lui, sur la base d'autres principes et critères que les siens.
6.7 Il fallait, dès le début de l'année 1990, adapter sans tarder le fonctionnement de l'Organisation et la  structure du Secrétariat aux nouvelles orientations retenues par les Etats membres dans le Plan à moyen terme  pour 1990-1995. En adoptant le document 25 C/4, la Conférence générale avait approuvé ipso facto, dans sa  résolution 25 C/100, le Plan administratif qui l'accompagnait. Ce dernier fixait les objectifs suivants : accroître  la pertinence et l'efficacité de l'action de l'Organisation ; adapter les structures ; accroître l'efficacité du  Secrétariat ; moderniser et rénover les instruments et les méthodes ; développer les ressources humaines ;  accentuer la présence de l'UNESCO dans le monde et améliorer sa visibilité.
6.8 L'exercice 1990-1991 a donc été l'occasion, pour divers Etats membres ou pour le Conseil exécutif,  comme l'a indiqué son Président, d'approfondir la réflexion sur la réforme de l'UNESCO, en vue d'accroître la  pertinence et l'efficacité de l'action de l'Organisation. C'est ainsi que le projet de résolution présenté par le  Japon propose des amendements à l'Acte constitutif en vue de modifier la composition du Conseil exécutif et  d'en améliorer le fonctionnement. Onze autres Etats membres ont proposé des modifications aux amendements  préconisés par le Japon. Un accord complet s'est déjà dégagé à cet égard. Le Conseil exécutif a en outre décidé  de créer, sur une base expérimentale, un groupe d'experts des questions financières et administratives, qui sera  issu de sa Commission financière et administrative ; je me félicite de cette initiative.
6.9 En outre, l'Allemagne présente à la Conférence générale un projet de résolution proposant la création  d'un Forum UNESCO, qui sera examiné au titre du point 8 de l'ordre du jour (méthodes de travail de  l'Organisation) et en séance plénière. Ce Forum de personnalités éminentes, qui serait établi en consultation  avec le Conseil exécutif, étudierait les questions clés qui posent de nouveaux défis à l'UNESCO dans le cadre de  son mandat.
6.10 La France présente pour sa part un projet de résolution intitulé "La coopération intellectuelle à  l'UNESCO", qui fait l'objet d'un point supplémentaire de l'ordre du jour et sera traité à l'occasion du débat de  politique générale. Cette proposition vise à renforcer la coopération entre l'UNESCO et les communautés  intellectuelles et scientifiques ; elle ouvre aussi la voie à l'exploration par le Conseil exécutif et par le Directeur  général des modes de consultation les plus appropriés qui permettraient d'associer, en tant que de besoin,  d'éminentes personnalités à la réflexion de l'UNESCO sur les défis d'un monde en mutation.
6.11 De surcroît, ie Conseil exécutif vient d'examiner le rapport préliminaire concernant une étude  approfondie sur "l'organisation et les méthodes de travail de l'UNESCO en tant que membre du système des  Nations Unies dans un monde en changement". Le Président du Conseil exécutif s'est exprimé à ce sujet et je  conviens tout à fait que ce rapport pose nombre de questions fort pertinentes sur la réforme de l'UNESCO,  auxquelles, tous ensemble, nous devrons nous efforcer de répondre. Le Conseil exécutif se prononcera à sa 139e  session sur les modalités appropriées pour la poursuite de cette étude approfondie, à la lumière notamment des  débats et des résolutions de la Conférence générale. J'ai présenté moi-même à la réunion du Comité  administratif de coordination (CAC) un document sur la réforme du système des Nations Unies dans son  ensemble ; le débat sur cette question se poursuivra lors de la réunion du CAC au printemps de 1992.
6.12 Je retiens donc de l'ensemble de ces initiatives, dont je me réjouis, trois idées. La première, c'est que la  voix des Etats membres doit se faire entendre avec netteté et efficacité au sein d'organes directeurs dont les  méthodes de travail seraient rationalisées et améliorées. La deuxième idée, c'est que la fonction et le rôle  intellectuels de l'UNESCO doivent être renforcés si l'on veut qu'elle soit non seulement à la hauteur de son  mandat, mais encore en prise directe sur la réalité. La réflexion est désormais - tous les décideurs le savent - le  phare de l'action et son meilleur pilote. Une troisième idée, c'est qu'il convient d'approfondir le réexamen des  missions, des méthodes et des modalités d'intervention de l'UNESCO, Je compte prendre dans cette perspective  et sur la base des indications que me donneront les chefs de délégation au cours du débat de politique générale,  un certain nombre d'initiatives, en concertation avec le Conseil exécutif et tous les partenaires concernés.
6.13 Durant l'exercice 1990-1991, j'ai pris un ensemble de mesures visant à améliorer le fonctionn ment de  l'Organisation, qui ont été présentées en détail dans mes rapports au Conseil exécutif sur l'activité de  l'Organisation. J'ai procédé à des aménagements de la structure du Secrétariat afin de l'adapter aux fonctions et  aux objectifs assignés à l'UNESCO pour la période sexennale, et de mettre en oeuvre les programmes approuvés  par la Conférence générale.
6,14 Pour rationaliser et simplifier les méthodes de travail, j'ai délégué largement l'autorité en matière de  ressources financières, de recrutement et de gestion du personnel, et d'exécution du programme. Un certain  nombre d'études d'audit portant sur plusieurs unités ou secteurs du Secrétariat ont été entreprises, tandis que la  refonte et la mise à jour du Manuel de l'UNESCO vont permettre de simplifier et de moderniser la gestion. Un  nouveau plan de développement de l'informatique et des télécommunications a en outre été préparé ; intitulé  désormais "Plan de développement des ressources en matière d'information”, il privilégie une approche  concrète et pragmatique. La communication interne, au Siège et entre ce dernier et les unités hors Siège, a aussi  été améliorée par l'emploi des techniques modernes de communication et par la mise en place d'un nouveau  système de rapport et d'information. Des cercles de qualité favorisent, au sein du personnel, l'esprit d'innovation  et de participation.
6.15  Accroître la présence de l'UNESCO dans le monde et améliorer la visibilité de son action constituent  les objectifs de la politique de décentralisation. Grâce à l'étroite collaboration entre le Conseil exécutif et le  Secrétariat, les enjeux de la décentralisation ont pu être clarifiés, cependant que sur le terrain, la mise en oeuvre  de la nouvelle politique progressait sensiblement. Le Conseil exécutif, à sa 136e session, a formulé, sur la base  des premiers résultats d'une étude approfondie, un certain nombre de recommandations précieuses à ce sujet ; à  sa 137e session, le Conseil a pris note des progrès réalisés par le Secrétariat en matière de décentralisation.  Celle-ci n'est pas une fin en soi, mais une stratégie qui doit permettre à l'UNESCO d'ajuster sa présence hors  Siège aux besoins des Etats membres et aux possibilités de l'Organisation, tout en améliorant la qualité des  services rendus sur le terrain. Les mesures que j'ai prises visent à mieux associer le personnel des unités hors  Siège à l'effort de planification de l'UNESCO, à accroître l'impact des activités de l'Organisation dans les Etats  membres, et à prendre pleinement en considération les priorités de ces derniers, telles qu'ils les expriment par  leurs commissions nationales. Dans cette perspective, nos bureaux hors Siège doivent s'acquitter de trois  fonctions essentielles. La première, c'est d'informer régulièrement l'Organisation des besoins des États membres  dans ses domaines de compétence, afin que l'UNESCO puisse affiner et ajuster la programmation de ses  activités. Mais il importe surtout que ces unités hors Siège - c'est leur seconde fonction - apportent au moment  opportun l'assistance efficace que les Etats membres sont en droit d'attendre dans le cadre de l'exécution du  Programme ordinaire. Les bureaux hors Siège doivent de surcroît être capables d'identifier, de concevoir, de  suivre, d'évaluer les projets financés par des ressources extrabudgétaires et d'en négocier le financement avec  les sources bilatérales et multilatérales compétentes. L'importance prise au cours des dernières années par ces  services consultatifs d'expertise m'a conduit à améliorer la formation du personnel des bureaux hors Siège et à  l'adapter aux nouvelles conditions de l'assistance technique. Ces conditions sont au nombre de trois :  l'accroissement des capacités nationales d'expertise et d'exécution des projets ; la diversification croissante des  spécificités de chaque région ou sous-région ; et la multiplication des institutions ou des organisations  prestataires de conseil et, souvent, de financement.
6.16 … L'information du public contribue aussi à la visibilité de l'oeuvre de l'Organisation : en 1990-1991, la  diffusion de la revue Sources ainsi que du bulletin d'information UNESCOPRESSE constituent à cet égard des  progrès encourageants.
6.17 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993 témoigne aussi des efforts qui ont été faits pour  diminuer les frais administratifs. Il convient sur ce dernier point d'évoquer la réduction importante du volume  de la documentation, la diminution des missions du personnel, la limitation du nombre des réunions et
52   l'amélioration de leur suivi, ainsi que la réflexion engagée en vue d'améliorer la politique des publications et  des périodiques.
6.18 Les organes directeurs de l'UNESCO ont également réduit leurs coûts de fonctionnement au cours du  présent exercice biennal. Il appartient à la Conférence générale de se prononcer sur les propositions qui lui sont  faites, au titre du prochain exercice biennal, en ce qui concerne les méthodes de travail des organes directeurs et  les économies qui pourraient résulter de leur modification. J'ai aussi suggéré que soient revus le rythme, la  durée et les modalités des réunions des organes directeurs des programmes intergouvernementaux de  l'UNESCO ; cette proposition a reçu un accueil favorable du Conseil exécutif à sa 136€ session ; si elle était  appliquée de façon raisonnable, elle permettrait de dégager des ressources supplémentaires qui seraient  consacrées à des activités hautement prioritaires, notamment dans les Etats membres les plus démunis.
6.19 Le renforcement de la présence de l'UNESCO dans le monde passe aussi par l'amélioration de l'action  de l'Organisation relative à la mise en oeuvre des activités financées par des ressources extrabudgétaires. J'y  reviendrai plus loin en présentant le budget pour 1992-1993. Mais il est clair que l'UNESCO aura surtout à  élaborer, par exemple dans le domaine de l'éducation, en coopération avec les sources de financement et les  autorités nationales, les politiques de développement des ressources humaines, ainsi que les stratégies relatives  à leur mise en oeuvre. L'analyse et le diagnostic, la conception de projets et l'identification de leurs modalités  de financement se situent en amont de leur exécution effective ; elles se caractérisent par un haut niveau de  professionnalisme et de compétence. L'évolution même de la coopération internationale rapproche donc chaque  jour davantage la réflexion et l'action. En renforçant ses missions d'ordre intellectuel, l'UNESCO sera donc en  mesure de jouer un rôle de chef de file dans chacun de ses domaines de compétence. Ce rôle, l'UNESCO ne  peut bien entendu le tenir que si la Conférence générale scelle ce contrat moral entre tous les Etats membres,  que j'évoquais hier dans mon allocution d'ouverture. Il importe en effet que chaque gouvernement s'engage à  utiliser les services de l'UNESCO, et qu'il exige effectivement sa présence dans tout domaine relevant de sa  compétence,
6.20 Le développement et l'amélioration des ressources humaines sont la pierre angulaire de toute réforme  authentique de l'UNESCO. Durant l'exercice écoulé, un certain nombre de mesures ont été prises dans ce  domaine : les délégations de pouvoir en matière de gestion du personnel ; les programmes de formation du  personnel à la gestion ; la réactivation du programme des jeunes fonctionnaires stagiaires ; l'amélioration de la  planification du recrutement et l'utilisation de l'assistance temporaire ; la rationalisation des organes  consultatifs paritaires ; l'introduction d'un nouveau système d'évaluation des performances du personnel, qui  permettra la mise en place d'un schéma de planification des carrières fondé sur le mérite ; et l'examen général  du classement de tous les postes au Siège et hors Siège ainsi que des descriptions d'emploi.
6.21 Il m'a paru nécessaire d'aller encore plus loin, en définissant en juillet 1991, les grandes lignes d'un  plan quadriennal dont les principes sont formulés dans une note qui a été diffusée à l'ensemble des délégations  permanentes et qui s'intitule "Rationalisation et optimisation des ressources humaines (1992-1995)". Il  convenait, en effet, à la veille de l'approbation d'un nouveau programme et budget par la Conférence générale,  d'engager sans retard une évaluation prévisionnelle de toutes les ressources - notamment humaines - dont  disposera l'Organisation. Utiliser les ressources humaines au mieux de leurs capacités en vue d'accroître la  qualité de la mise en oeuvre du programme, rationaliser l'emploi de ces mêmes ressources afin d'améliorer la  gestion de l'UNESCO, restructurer en conséquence le Secrétariat grâce à un rééquilibrage entre le Siège et les  unités hors Siège, telles sont les orientations du plan présenté à la 137e session du Conseil exécutif, qui lui a  réservé un accueil favorable.
6.22 _ L'exercice engagé vise, en premier lieu, à accroître la part des ressources de l'Organisation qui est  dévolue à l'exécution du programme, tout en améliorant l'efficacité de celle-ci ; il s'agit de réunir, autour des  axes majeurs de concentration choisis par les Etats membres, toute la gamme de compétences requise et les  masses critiques indispensables. En second lieu, le Plan a pour but de reconstituer graduellement le gisement  intellectuel de l'Organisation ; en recrutant de jeunes spécialistes, l'UNESCO bénéficiera d'un sang neuf, de  compétences nouvelles, tout en corrigeant le profil de la pyramide des postes. En troisième lieu, il s'agit de  renforcer progressivement, dans le strict respect des décisions des organes directeurs, le personnel affecté hors  Siège par rapport au personnel du Siège. Quatre critères caractériseront la mise en oeuvre de ce plan  quadriennal : le rajeunissement des cadres, l'urgence d'attirer des compétences neuves au sein de  l'Organisation, l'amélioration de la répartition géographique et la poursuite de la politique visant à accroître la  proportion des femmes dans le personnel, en particulier au sein du cadre organique et de rang supérieur.
6.23 Monsieur le Président, l'élaboration du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, qui  correspond à la deuxième tranche du Plan à moyen terme pour 1990-1995, a été guidée par les principes  suivants : concentration des activités sur les domaines considérés comme hautement prioritaires par les Etats  membres ; renforcement du rôle de l'UNESCO au sein de la coopération internationale ; amélioration et  rénovation du fonctionnement de l'Organisation.
6.24 La concentration du programme de l'Organisation sur des ensembles d'activités hautement prioritaires  s'impose au nom de l'efficacité et du souci de donner à ces activités l'impact nécessaire. Cette concentration  correspond aussi à l'obligation d'utiliser au mieux les ressources humaines et matérielles de l'Organisation. Il a  donc fallu resserrer l'éventail des priorités en se référant aux diverses sources de la programmation où elles sont  identifiées par les Etats membres. I] a été aussi tenu compte des résultats de différentes activités d'évaluation  mises en oeuvre principalement en 1990 qui ont été présentés dans un document synoptique, pour la première  fois, au Conseil exécutif, à sa 136e session, en même temps que le Projet de programme et de budget pour
1992-1993. II a été possible, dans nombre de cas, de concentrer les activités sous des objectifs plus précis et de  proposer des modalités pertinentes et efficaces pour leur mise en oeuvre. L'utilité de ce document synoptique  sur les résultats des activités d'évaluation a été reconnue par le Conseil exécutif ; l'expérience sera donc  poursuivie en même temps que seront renforcées les activités d'évaluation, afin d'améliorer la programmation  des activités futures de l'Organisation.
6.25 Cette concentration s'est traduite par une diminution de 16 % du nombre de sous-programmes et de
25 % de celui des actions de programme par rapport au Programme et budget approuvés pour 1990-1991. Il  aurait sans doute été possible d'accroître encore plus la concentration du programme, mais il a paru souhaitable  de maintenir, en en réduisant le nombre, des activités dont le degré de priorité est moindre, mais que les Etats  membres désirent voir se poursuivre. À leur mise en oeuvre ont été affectées des ressources limitées, mais  suffisantes pour qu'elles aient le rôle catalytique voulu, ou pour qu'elles permettent de mobiliser des ressources  extrabudgétaires, Certaines d'entre elles pourront être aussi financées au titre du Programme de participation.
6.26 La concentration du programme a également pour objet de répondre aux attentes les plus urgentes et  aux besoins les plus pressants. Ceux-ci concernent trois principales catégories de destinataires : les pays les  moins avancés, les Etats membres de la région Afrique et les femmes. Ces destinataires sont mentionnés dans  les plans de travail des actions de programme ; ils se trouvent dans les textes récapitulatifs, au sein du  document 26 C/5 ou dans ses appendices (par exemple, dans l'appendice XIV où sont récapitulées les activités  mises en oeuvre dans chaque région). Une fois le Programme et budget approuvés par la Conférence générale,  je veillerai à ce que les plans d'exécution du progamme, élaborés par le Secrétariat, mettent en relief, avec la  précision nécessaire, la priorité accordée à ces trois principales catégories de destinataires. En ce qui concerne  l'Afrique, où se trouvent les deux tiers des pays les moins avancés, il est par ailleurs prévu de renforcer le  programme "Priorité Afrique” ; une partie des activités de ce dernier sont financées au titre du Programme de  participation et son objet est de répondre aux besoins les plus urgents des Etats membres de cette région dans le  cadre des activités qu'il s'efforce de promouvoir, et, surtout, de mobiliser des ressources extrabudgétaires en leur  faveur.
6.27 Il convient par ailleurs de signaler que, pour la première fois, ont été élaborées et introduites dans le  document 26 C/5 des stratégies régionales qui visent à rendre plus pertinente et mieux adaptée l'action de  l'UNESCO dans ses Etats membres. C'est le cas, par exemple, des programmes régionaux de lutte contre  l'analphabétisme, de promotion du livre et de la lecture, de soutien de la création artistique et d'aménagement  des ressources naturelles. Ces stratégies régionales, qu'il conviendra sans doute de développer et d'affiner au fil  de l'expérience, font partie de la politique de décentralisation. Les objectifs de cette dernière ont été évoqués  précédemment.
6.28 Aux progrès qui seront réalisés en matière de décentralisation et qui permettront à l'Organisation d'être  mieux insérée dans le tissu de la coopération régionale et sous-régionale, devra correspondre, en 1992-1993, la  poursuite de la rati I 1 institut i  Au cours du présent exercice biennal, des résultats importants ont été obtenus à cet égard. À titre d'exemples, je  citerai l’organisation, en mars 1990, de la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous à Jomtien, en  Thaïlande, en coopération avec le Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement (PNUD), l'UNICEF et  la Banque mondiale ; le renforcement de la coopération spécifique entre l'UNESCO et l'UNICEF, grâce à la  création, en 1990, d'un Comité mixte UNESCO/UNICEF ; la tenue, en octobre-novembre 1990, à Genève, de la  deuxième Conférence mondiale sur le climat en coopération avec l'Organisation météorologique mondiale  (OMM), le Programme des Nations Unies pour l'environnement (PNUE) et le Conseil international des unions
54   scientifiques (CIUS) ; la contribution à la mise en oeuvre de la Stratégie internationale du développement pour  la quatrième Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement ; le renforcement, au sein du système des  Nations Unies, de la coopération en matière d'environnement grâce à la tenue de réunions périodiques  interinstitutions des fonctionnaires chargés des questions d'environnement ; l'adoption d'un programme  conjoint UNESCO-PNUE dans le domaine de l'éducation relative à l'environnement ; la conclusion d'un accord  en matière d'éducation entre l'UNESCO et le Fonds des Nations Unies pour la lutte contre l'abus des drogues  (FNULAD).
6.29 = L'UNESCO participe aussi activement depuis plus d'un an à la préparation de la Conférence des  Nations Unies sur l'environnement et le développement (CNUED), qui aura lieu au Brésil en juin 1992 et qui  constituera pour l'ensemble du système des Nations Unies un événement de la plus haute importance. Il serait  souhaitable, à l'instar des initiatives prises par les organes directeurs des autres institutions spécialisées du  système des Nations Unies, que la Conférence générale adopte une résolution destinée à la CNUED, pour  rappeler la contribution de l'UNESCO et réaffirmer son rôle dans la mise en oeuvre des résolutions et du  programme d'action de la Conférence.
6.30  L'amplification de la coopération interinstitutions au sein du système des Nations Unies devra  s'accompagner de celle de la collaboration avec les grandes organisations intergouvernementales régionales, à  la fois pour des raisons de synergie et pour mieux tirer profit de ressources budgétaires limitées. II me semble  que face aux défis auxquels la communauté internationale est confrontée, tous les acteurs de la coopération  multilatérale doivent oeuvrer en synergie pour assurer à leur action les plus grands effets multiplicateurs. Au  cours des deux prochaines années, l'UNESCO y contribuera en consolidant et en élargissant les alliances déjà  nouées avec les organisations des Nations Unies, les organisations intergouvernementales, les institutions d'aide  bilatérale, les grandes fondations et les organisations i ternationales non gouvernementales (ONG). En ce qui  concerne les liens privilégiés existant avec les ONG, la politique suivie a pour but d'amplifier ce partenariat,  tout en demeurant strict sur le choix de nos partenaires et les modalités de notre coopération. Dans ce domaine  comme dans d'autres, l'impératif de la qualité doit primer, car c'est la condition nécessaire de la crédibilité de  l'action de l'UNESCO.
6.31 Des progrès significatifs sont aussi attendus de la conception i terdisciplinaire des ctivités de  programme et de la coordination renforcée de leur mise en oeuvre intersectorielle. L'approche interdisciplinaire  est désormais indispensable pour cerner l'évolution du monde contemporain dans les domaines de compétence  de l'UNESCO. Les projets intersectoriels et de coopération interinstitutions, les projets mobilisateurs ainsi que  les programmes et thèmes transversaux, qui concernent des domaines clés de l'action de l'Organisation comme  l'environnement, le développement, la population, les femmes et la jeunesse, se prêtent tout à fait à  l'interdisciplinarité et nécessitent une mise en oeuvre intersectorielle.
6.32 Une proposition visant à améliorer les modalités d'exécution du programme de l'Organisation concerne  la création de chaires UNESCO. Ces dernières sont envisagées dans un certain nombre de sous-programmes.  Elles représentent un lieu privilégié de coopération internationale, régionale ou sous-régionale, où une  institution d'enseignement supérieur, avec l'aide de l'Organisation et d'autres partenaires, publics ou privés,  organise des activités de formation et de transfert des connaissances scientifiques et technologiques. Qu'elles  servent à l'organisation de séminaires ou de colloques destinés à promouvoir la recherche, ou qu'elles soient un  lieu d'échanges entre institutions d'enseignement supérieur ou entre laboratoires, dans le cadre par exemple de  jumelages interuniversitaires, les chaires UNESCO sont appelées à devenir une modalité importante de la mise  en oeuvre du programme, ayant les avantages suivants : accès rapide et soutenu aux connaissances, tout en  évitant les déplacements dans le pays ou la sous-région, ainsi qu'en réduisant l'exode des cerveaux. Plusieurs  Etats membres ont déjà manifesté le vif intérêt qu'ils portaient à cette innovation. On peut aussi envisager la  création de chaires patronnées et soutenues par des organisations internationales telles que le PNUD ou  l'Université des Nations Unies, par les Etats membres, par des institutions et par des entreprises industrielles  publiques ou privées.
6.33 Monsieur le Président, c'est donc pour que l'UNESCO puisse poursuivre sa mission face aux grands  défis du monde contemporain, répondre aux besoins urgents de catégories de destinataires considérés comme  prioritaires, tenir son rôle au sein de la coopération internationale, rénover et améliorer son fonctionnement, et  concentrer son action sur des priorités plus marquées, que le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993  a été élaboré. Ces priorités, que le Conseil exécutif avait mises en relief à sa 135e session et qui se retrouvent  dans les sept champs majeurs de programme, les projets mobilisateurs, les thèmes et programmes transversaux,  concernent : l'éducation de base pour tous, le renouveau des concepts et de la pratique de la formation des
55   élèves pour l'adapter à l'évolution du monde contemporain, ainsi que l'enseignement supérieur ;  l'environnement et l'aménagement des ressources naturelles, ainsi que la formation et la recherche en sciences  fondamentales et en sciences de l'ingénieur ; le patrimoine mondial, le développement culturel et la dimension  culturelle du développement, le livre et la lecture ainsi que la création et la créativité ; le renforcement des  infrastructures, des capacités de production endogène et du savoir-faire des pays en développement en matière  de communication ; la promotion de la libre circulation de l'information et sa diffusion plus large et mieux  équilibrée sans aucune entrave à la liberté d'expression ; la promotion du développement institutionnel des  sciences sociales et humaines, ainsi que la contribution de celles-ci à l'analyse des changements dans le monde  contemporain ; le développement des ressources humaines ; l'élucidation de la notion de culture de paix,  l'enseignement et la promotion des droits de l'homme et de la démocratie, ainsi que la lutte contre les diverses  formes de discrimination et notamment l'élimination de l'apartheid.
6.34 En ce qui concerne les différents champs majeurs de programme, la distribution des ressources qui leur  sont affectées, c'est-à-dire les coûts du personnel chargé de l'exécution du programme et les coûts directs  afférents à la mise en oeuvre des activités, met en relief les grandes priorités thématiques au sein du programme  de l'Organisation :  Champ majeur de programme I 80.164.600 dollars  Champ majeur de programme Il 60.914.300 "  Champ majeur de programme II 32.592.400 "  Champ majeur de programme IV 10.950.900"  Champ majeur de programme V )  Champ majeur de programme VI ) 23.712.100 "  Champ majeur de programme VII )
6.35 Monsieur le Président, je ne présenterai pas oralement la partie concernant les divers programmes  figurant dans le 26 C/5, qui sont traités en détail dans le document d'information que j'ai précédemment  mentionné. Pour conclure, je souhaiterais donc me référer au budget.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en anglais)
6.36 Before presenting the budget proposed for 1992-1993, I should like to emphasize that, because of the  prolonged cash deficits arising from non-payment or late receipt of contributions of Member States, the  Organization has been obliged to have recourse to internal and external borrowing. At the end of September
1991, $25.3 million have been borrowed. Also at the end of September 1991, contributions unpaid for the  current and previous financial periods totalled $100.5 million or 55.1 per cent of the amount assessed for 1991.  Although I have been informed that one very large contribution will be paid within a matter of days, the  outlook for the remainder of the year is most preoccupying. I therefore draw the attention of the General  Conference to this cash-flow problem. At the same time, UNESCO is handicapped by an inadequate effective  level of cash resources in its Working Capital Fund. That is why I have requested in document 26 C/58 that the  level of the Working Capital Fund in UNESCO for the next biennium should be increased to 4 per cent of the  revised total Appropriation for 1992-1993, I have also made proposals in document 26 C/57 on the need to  renew and strengthen the borrowing authority that the General Conference has given me, as well as modalities  of repayment of loans.
6.37 The budget proposed for 1992-1993 reflects the priorities described under the seven major programme  areas, and the requirements of the directing and support services needed for their execution.
6.38 Member States were fully involved in each phase of its preparation, starting with 25 C/Resolution 46  of the General Conference on the budgeting techniques to be used in document 26 C/5 and leading to the  directive of the Executive Board (135 EX/Decision 4.1) that a substantially reduced nominal budget increase  should be proposed through planned austerity measures and programme concentration. While the application of  the budgeting techniques implied zero growth, the implementation of the Executive Board's directive entailed  negative growth in real terms. This conflicting situation will have to be resolved finally through the General  Conference's Appropriation Resolution for 1992-1993, which will establish the definitive budget for the next  biennium.
6.39 I also had to steer a course between the genuine hopes of a majority of Member States for more  services from UNESCO and the constraints of an unfavourable economic environment. The resulting negative  growth in real terms was achieved mainly through the deletion of 62 existing posts from the Organization's  staff, giving savings of some $8.1 million, and the curtailment of other expenses, yielding additional savings of  $2.9 million. The total savings amount to $11 million, which represents a negative growth of 2.6 per cent.
6.40 The abolition of 62 existing posts was achieved by means of a thorough analysis of the Organization's  requirements for the forthcoming biennium. The impact of UNESCO's programme depends upon the quality of  its staff. The division often made between staff and programme is artificial for, in the final analysis, both  components are interdependent, and one cannot exist without the other. Most of the posts abolished belong to  administrative and non-programme functions. The Organization cannot weaken programme implementation  and 1ts presence when it is particularly needed in many Member States. The staff establishment will be subject  to constant review so as to ensure that the Organization can dispose of the most adequate working instrument.  In this respect, a four-year plan for rationalizing and optimizing the Organization's human resources, which I  mentioned previously, aims at a better, more effective and more economic implementation of the programme.
0.41 To my knowledge, UNESCO is the only organization of the United Nations system anticipating  negative budget growth in real terms at this stage. Other major agencies, including the World Health  Organization (WHO), the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Food and Agriculture Organization  of the United Nations (FAO), benefit from the maintenance of budgetary status quo (zero growth) which  preserves their present strength, while the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United  Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), for example, project an increase of resources, including staff. The  Executive Board, at its 136th session, expressed its satisfaction with the $11 million reduction, although it was  still concerned about the percentage of staff costs within the total budget. I should add that this percentage of
60 per cent is among the lowest in the United Nations system. When adding extra-budgetary funds in respect of  projects implemented by the same staff, the percentage is less than 40 per cent, which is remarkably low,  particularly when one takes into account the intellectual nature of the Organization.
6.42 Progress has been made with respect to the integration into the regular programme of activities  designed to strengthen co-operation for development and financed by extra-budgetary resources. The increased  involvement of the Organization in these activities has to be seen in the context of UNESCO's overall role as a  catalyst in the development efforts of Member States; it assists in the identification of specific priority needs,  and in the collaboration between them as well as with funding sources for the mobilization of resources. The  evolution of extra-budgetary resources channelled through the Organization shows:  in 1986-1987 : $144.5 million;  in 1988-1989 : $155.5 million; and  in 1990-1991 : $178.0 million, as an estimate.
6.43 In the Programme and Budget for 1990-1991, these funds were estimated at $202.3 million, and it is  hoped that $178 million will be implemented or some 88 per cent of the 25 C/5 document estimates. An  amount of $246.8 million has been projected in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, representing  an increase of some 20 per cent over the present biennium.
6.44 The execution of these activities depends to a large degree on the will of the donor Member States,  organizations and beneficiary countries. It is also too early to draw any conclusion with respect to the  shortcomings or advantages of the newly introduced support costs system for UNDP- and UNFPA-financed  programmes and projects, but the Organization will spare no efforts to draw the maximum benefits for Member  States out of the new and complex arrangements.
645 Mr President, the budget proposed for 1992-1993 in document 26 C/5 Rev. 2 amounts to $444.7  million, which represents a negative growth in real terms of 2.6 per cent - not counting the 'debts of the past’  for which an amount of $7.5 million will have to be absorbed during the biennium - and a nominal growth of
17.4 per cent in comparison with the budget approved for 1990-1991. This figure could be revised, as it  depends on the exchange rate evolution.
6.46 At its 137th session, the Executive Board unanimously recommended for consideration by the General  Conference a provisional budget ceiling of $415,143,000 for Parts I to VII of the budget, to which will be added  the figure in Part VIII when the Conference votes the budget.
6.47 I am confident that the General Conference, on the basis of a detailed analysis and scrutiny by the  commissions and assisted by the Secretariat to the best of its ability, will conclude its work by voting a budget  which is commensurate with UNESCO's mission and the expectations of the international community.
6.48 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these expectations are high because, beyond the discussion of the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, this twenty-sixth session of the General Conference represents a  crucial event in the life of the Organization. As I stressed yesterday, this is the first time since 1946 that the  General Conference has taken place in an international context characterized by such major progress in  democracy, human rights and freedom; at a time, moreover, when Member States are reiterating their belief in  these values and are reflecting upon the reform of the United Nations system. That is why I am renewing my  appeal for a moral contract between all Member States on this occasion, in order to underline the unique role of  UNESCO in reconciling humankind with its environment, development with solidarity and co-operation,  market forces with ethics, and efficiency and competitivity of individuals and groups with community values.  Through this moral contract and a renewed faith in our Organization's mission and role, through the reform of  its functioning and the effective implementation of its programmes, we can take a decisive step towards the  ‘society of minds' to which the President of the French Republic referred yesterday. I am convinced that this  appeal, and the determination shown by the General Conference in this respect, will be heard and that the  universality of UNESCO will be strengthened accordingly. This universality has, since yesterday, been  amplified with the membership of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Tuvalu, to whom I express the warmest  welcome.
6.49 I thank you for your attention.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank you the Director-General for a very comprehensive report which I am sure will contribute  immensely to our deliberations.
7.2 The organization of the work of the session is virtually complete. This afternoon at 3 p.m. we shall  begin the general policy debate and I would like to make two requests in that connection: firstly, that speakers  observe the time-limit on statements as far as possible; and secondly, that we endeavour to start our meetings  punctually.
7.3 I now give the floor to the Secretary to make announcements.
8.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rappeler, de la part du Président du  Comité des candidatures, combien il est important que tous les présidents des groupes électoraux régionaux  participent aux travaux du Comité, afin que celui-ci puisse prendre les décisions qui s'imposent.
(8.2) Two videos will be shown.The first, lasting 17 minutes, outlines the Organization's attitude towards  current issues. The second, lasting 26 minutes, shows how UNESCO is trying to face up to current challenges in  carrying out its programme. Both films can be followed through headphones in the six languages of the  Conference. The first film - and only the first film - will now be shown here in this room. The second will be  shown on another occasion, to be announced in due course. In a few moments, therefore, you will be able to see  the first film that I mentioned. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (La Conférence générale assiste à la projection d'un film)
58   The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is adjourned.
59  La séance est levée à 12 h.40  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 12.40