Huitième séance plénière
18 octobre 1991, à 15 h.05  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. EDJO OVONO (Guinée équatoriale)  puis : M. TACAR (Turquie)  Eighth plenary meeting
18 October 1991 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr OGOT (Kenya)  later: Mr EDJO OVONO (Equatorial Guinea)  later: Mr TACAR (Turkey)  Octava sesiôn plenaria
19919F10 H18H , 1584054  FOR EE CH ET)  REA : KE « MUR Æ CONÉ LAN )  REA: ER SUNICE CHR)
249   TROISIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE  DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  THIRD SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE  CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  TERCER INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTA DEL COMITE DE  VERIFICACION DE PODERES  TPETUIM JLOTIONHHTENbBHbIH JIOKJIAJ] MPEJICEJIATEJSI KOMHUTETA TIO MNPOBEPKE  TIOJHOMOYHH  Sel F5 y pans id Lust sd ed) lay) 5 A0  HEBER ERP EZRA TRE
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the eighth plenary meeting. Before we proceed with the general  policy debate, I shall give the floor to the Chairwoman of the Credentials Committee to present her third  supplementary report.
(2.1) Mme PRERA FLORES (Guatemala), Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  {traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Ceci est le troisième rapport supplémentaire du Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens à vous  informer que depuis la lecture du deuxième rapport supplémentaire du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs en  séance plénière, le 17 octobre 1991, à 17 h.30, 140 Etats ont présenté des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme et
19 des pouvoirs provisoires. Les délégations de quatre pays n'ont pas encore communiqué de pouvoirs.
(2.2) Nous nous sommes acquittés de notre mission dans une atmosphère particulièrement agréable grâce à  l'expérience et à la compétence de mes collègues du Bénin, de la Chine, de l'Italie, de la Jordanie, du Népal, du  Paraguay, de la Pologne et du Tchad, qui composent avec moi le Comité, grâce aussi à la coopération des États  membres qui se sont attachés à remplir rapidement les formalités d'accréditation conformément aux règles  établies. Je leur adresse à tous mes remerciements.
(2.3) I faut en outre souligner un fait historique et significatif pour un organisme des Nations Unies : nous  comptons, à la fin de la première semaine de la Conférence générale, 159 Etats accrédités - soit 98 % des Etats  membres - et il n'y a eu aucune contestation. La preuve est ainsi faite que l'évolution des idées se traduit  concrètement par des actes visant à promouvoir une meilleure compréhension et une meilleure connaissance entre  les peuples et à permettre la conclusion d'accords qui nous conduiront rapidement à un monde nouveau, où  pourront prévaloir la paix et la solidarité internationales et où seront réaffirmés les principes de dignité, d'égalité  et de respect mutuel entre tous les hommes et toutes les nations que défend l'UNESCO. Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.
3. The PRESIDENT:  On behalf of the General Conference I would like to thank the Credentials Committee and particularly  its Chairwoman for their excellent work. Thank you.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXJIEHHE BOMNPOCOB OBILEH TIOINHTHKH (1Ipo/torxenne)  (el) Tale] Aulas | Lilia  BREE CHE)
4, The PRESIDENT:  We shall now resume the general policy debate. May 1 repeat my appeal for brevity. I give the floor to  the Hon. Barry Jones MP, Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Long-Term Strategies and head of the  delegation of Australia.
5.1 Mr JONES (Australia):  I join other national representatives in congratulating you, Mr President of the General Conference on  your election, the President of the Executive Board on his leadership, and the Director-General on his  articulation of new challenges for UNESCO. Australia was a Founder Member of UNESCO and since 1946 has  perceived the Organization as an instrument of the greatest importance in improving the quality of human life.  We want to play a part in transforming it and helping it to fulfil its historic mission.
5.2 With the ending of the Cold War, the United Nations has gained a new lease of life and heightened  moral authority. The role for UNESCO should be enhanced in the 1990s. There have been substantial gains in  education internationally. Far more children are exposed to primary education now than in any previous  generation. We live in an age of scientific revolution where the products of research have a falling unit cost,  and the poorest nations have access to some forms of high technology. In culture, the world is passing through  an information revolution where the use of telecommunications, satellites, radio and television has created a  global village, with all the threats and opportunities of cultural convergence.
5.3 The challenge of assisting less-developed countries to recognize the importance of their own culture is  immense. But is UNESCO able to meet the potential challenges that the world is placing on it, with a budget of  US $447 million, when the world’s population is 5.5 billion and more than 1 billion adults are illiterate? The  need for UNESCO is greater than ever; the Organization must regain moral authority, seek increased resources,  pursue the restoration of universality and restate its historic goal of harnessing intellectual capacity to solve  global problems.
54 Ironically, UNESCO is the only international body within the United Nations lacking universal  membership. We are encouraged by the growing interest in membership by the Pacific Island States. Australia  welcomes the admission of Tuvalu at this General Conference. We look forward to further additions to the  membership from the Pacific region, which has not so far received from UNESCO the attention, the  representation or the resources it deserves.
5.5 Australia calls for the return of the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore to UNESCO as  a matter of the highest priority. This is not just for the financial and intellectual resources they can bring, but  because the issues that led to their withdrawal must be debated and resolved inside the Organization. While  those nations remain outside, the issues are unresolved.
5.6 UNESCO has played a very valuable role in many areas - in creating the World Heritage List, in the  great restoration projects such as those of Abu Simbel, Borobudur and - to the extent that circumstances  permit - Angkor Wat. It continues to draw attention to environmental, educational and intellectual property  issues. The Man and the Biosphere programme has been particularly important. So has setting the goal of 'basic  education for all, and many valuable publications, especially historical. However, at a time when the  Organization ought to be regarded as a focus of world intellectual activity, it appears to be peripheral. The  major items on this General Conference agenda are being negouated quietly between regional groups and will  not be the subject of plenary debate. We regret this. Indeed, the issues which concern the Organization appear
251   to be essentially matters of housekeeping, matters of form, which mean little to the governments that sent us  here, and nothing to the billions of people in the world whose interests we claim to represent.
5.7 We can all accept the list of problems which President Mitterrand identified in his speech here last  Tuesday, and I will not restate them. The question is: "What can UNESCO do to address them?" Other than  changing the Constitution as it affects the Executive Board and advancing the idea of a ‘forum of reflection’,  what more is proposed?
5.8 We lack confidence about how far the Organization can provide far-sighted vision, bold ideas and  concepts and frank debate. There are some major problems in the way the Organization addresses issues. In my  experience as an observer of Executive Board meetings in October 1990 and May 1991, and at this Conference,  we do not debate issues, we just talk about them, and there is a difference. It is essentially monologue and not  dialogue. To repeat, the argument and negotiation that go on behind closed doors are often on matters of form  and not of substance. Let me here declare my own interest, as a member of parliament and writer in a different  approach: I welcome vigorous debate, I suppose, because I am used to it. However, I express concern that the  bureaucratic-administrative approach to problem-solving is becoming increasingly dominant in UNESCO.
5.9 Typically, in their addresses, national representatives describe their own experience or set out a wish  list, sometimes even a little tourist promotion. They rarely refer to matters raised by previous speakers. Indeed  the rules make it very difficult for an immediate reply when matters of substance are raised, as was shown on  Wednesday, when speakers lists were prepared well in advance. There seems to be a view that contentious  issues ought not to be debated on the floor of the Conference. If this is so, how can UNESCO claim intellectual  leadership? We need more intellectual rigour. We need to identify issues and discuss both sides, pro and con,  with vigorous, open analysis.
5.10 And we should not be worried about bringing issues to a vote. Traditionally, when intellectuals  changed the world around them, it was on the basis of debate, and a frank, open critique - and we need only  invoke the names of Montesquieu, Voltaire, Rousseau and the eighteenth-century philosophers; Jefferson and  Madison in the United States; Marx and Engels; Mill and Russell; Mahatma Gandhi; and Jean-Paul Sartre and  Frantz Fanon more recently here in France, and so many others who were thinkers first, then men of action.
5.11 There is a vital role for UNESCO if it can seize the initiative and tap the world's huge intellectual  resources to help create a better, more secure life for the future. It is essential that UNESCO retain an  intellectual base - but it must claim it and demonstrate it first. It is a long time since the Executive Board had  Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan as a member.
5.12 The ending of the Cold War, the collapse of totalitarianism, the explosive growth of democratic  practice will create a new set of international priorities in which the development of cultural issues, in the  broadest sense, must be central. UNESCO must form a key element in this structure of the post-ideological  order, for we cannot talk about a framework of international co-operation without addressing the educational,  scientific and cultural needs of mankind - the means, as President Mitterrand has emphasized, of entrenching  the ideals of democracy and tolerance in our present institutions and in the minds of the generations to come.
5.13 The problem of harnessing world intellectual resources on great issues is extraordinarily difficult. Its  difficulty has been grossly underestimated. We all agree that more scientists are living now than ever lived  before - but where are they? Who are they? And what contributions do they make to intellectual debate? And 1f  they don't, why don't they? Albert Einstein is the only universally recognized scientific name and image of the  twentieth century. If Einstein is number one, who is number two? Some would support Sigmund Freud, but  others would challenge his status as a scientist. But even if we include Sigmund Freud, who is number three,  and so on? We recognize major figures in the arts and music, but the sheer complexity of science and  philosophy discourages much sense of empathy among lay people.
5.14 Let me draw several related elements to your notice: first, the problem of superspecialization; second,  the decline of the scientific generalist; and third, the ‘invisibility’ factor. When UNESCO was set up in 1946,  Sir Julian Huxley became its first Director-General. He was not only an eminent biologist but also a writer,  educator and controversialist. In his generation many eminent scientists prided themselves on understanding  the ‘Big Picture’ - and they included such names as Einstein, Bohr, Pauli, Schrôdinger, Bernal, Blackett and  Haldane, all of whom engaged in major, sustained intellectual debate. Now this view is utterly out of fashion.  Scientists and philosophers concentrate on increasingly narrow areas of specialization. Some scientists say as a
252   matter of pride: I have no time to read anything outside my field’. They also isolate themselves from other  intellectuals by their use of specialized language and jargon. In the excellent promotional film on UNESCO  shown to the General Conference on Wednesday, the names and images of Bertrand Russell and Jean-Paul  Sartre were invoked. Where are their equivalents nowadays? Jacques-Yves Cousteau and Luc Montagnier, both  shown in the film, are known for their skilful use of media to direct attention to major issues, but at present  they are quite exceptional.
5.15 Unfortunately, scientists who attempt popularization, for example, Stephen Hawking, Stephen Jay  Gould, Carl Sagan and others, often come under strong professional criticism. Some scientists are actively  discouraged from popularization by peer pressure. There seems to be a fear in these circles that engaging in  public debate is a prostitution of the academic discipline and is more the responsibility of politicians than of  professors. Those scientists whose expertise in the factors shaping the future of mankind enabling them to  speak to us authoritatively about the quality of human life and the environment should be encouraged to speak  out freely.
5.16 Unfortunately, science and philosophy have become faceless, largely invisible activities carried out by  teams of people whose names we do not know. Many recent Nobel prize-winners are little known, even in their  own countries. Historically, candidates for higher degrees were required to present a thesis - an argument -  which required them to justify their conclusions in open debate. This valuable tradition has been lost and needs  revival.
5.17 UNESCO seems io fall between two stools (if I may use the English phrase). Et lacks the total support  of some national governments and it is not seen by others as the focus of the world's intellectual effort. There  ought to be a unique opportunity for UNESCO in the 1990s to take advantage of the changed world  environment. It is essential that UNESCO attempt to stimulate linkages between specialist areas and to  encourage intellectuals to assert their right and obligation to contribute to debate on major issues - especially  for the long term. If the reforms proposed for the Executive Board help achieve this objective, we will have  begun the process of reviving one of the main purposes for which the Organization was founded. In particular,  the Executive Board must cease to replicate the General Conference and must not conduct a sterile general  debate which is nothing more than another occasion for formal set-piece statements.
5.18 Mr President, what we need today are not only national thinkers but global thinkers. There is a vast  intellectual potential which is simply being thrown away. We must use it. Our challenges and problems are not  only international but interrelated and interdependent. UNESCO is uniquely well-equipped through its  mandate, mechanisms and accumulated knowledge and experience to be an intellectual focus and clearing  house for the world.
5.19 If we are true to the spirit of this Organization the membership must adhere to certain basic principles:  universality; representation that is expert and responsible; its original terms of reference - co-operation in  education, science and culture. If we lose sight of these basic objectives we risk becoming unrepresentative of  the world community of nations and peoples, and unbalanced in our focus of geographical attention and  concern; we risk becoming a governmental body that is politicized, timid and excessively diplomatic; leading to  duplication of the work of other multilateral bodies both inside and outside the United Nations system.
5.20 UNESCO was conceived of as a unique organization. If it sacrifices its uniqueness for the sake of  short-term and transient purposes, it will have forfeited its potential contribution to promoting mankind's  harmony, understanding and survival. We must begin reviving UNESCO's moral authority and creativity  immediately. Tomorrow is too late!
6. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Australia, who made a very nowerful case for intellectual co-  operation, and finished on time. I now call on H.E. Mr Jean-Pierre Keusch, Ambassador and head of the  delegation of Switzerland.
7.1 M. KEUSCH (Suisse) :  Vous me permettrez, Monsieur le Président, de vous présenter tout d'abord les félicitations de ma  délégation pour votre élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale. Le rôle crucial que vous avez joué  dans le passé, votre impartialité bien connue nous sont garants des délibérations fructueuses que va tenir notre  Conférence sous votre présidence.
7.2 Monsieur le Président, l'année où se tient la vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale de  l'UNESCO marque pour la Suisse une étape importante, puisqu'elle célèbre en 1991 le 700e anniversaire de son  existence en tant qu'Etat. Tout au long des manifestations qui ont émaillé cette année de fête, nous avons  souligné l'importance des liens que nous entretenons avec le monde entier, et notamment dans le domaine  intellectuel et culturel. Notre présence à l'UNESCO, notre fidélité à ses idéaux plongent leurs racines au plus  profond de notre sentiment national. J'ajouterai que les fêtes du 700e anniversaire se sont déroulées sous le  signe, non pas d'une rétrospective, mais d'une interrogation permanente et de l'utopie, source de regénération,  d'imagination et d'espoir. Mais la Suisse n'est pas la seule à pouvoir commémorer ainsi, cette année, la  conquête de son indépendance.
7.3 Vers la fin de la dernière session de la Conférence générale, le mur qui symbolisait la division de  l'Europe tombait sous les coups d'un peuple ivre de liberté ; de proche en proche, la liberté et la démocratie ont  terrassé les totalitarismes et la tyrannie qui dominaient les peuples d'une partie du continent, apparaissant  comme la condition même du développement.
74 Depuis lors, tout s'est mis en mouvement, dans la sphère politique, philosophique, économique. Nous  assistons à une révolution à l'Est. Cette révolution nous interpelle en permanence. Il serait impensable que,  dans un monde bouleversé et à la recherche d'un nouvel équilibre, l'UNESCO ne se remette pas à son tour en  question.
7,5 C'est pourquoi nous estimons que l'Organisation doit accélérer et approfondir les divers processus de  réforme engagés depuis quatre ans et passer à la vitesse supérieure, sous peine d'être dépassée par les  événements. Mais avant de tracer les grands axes sur lesquels doit s'articuler à nos yeux l'action de l'UNESCO,  dans un monde interdépendant et en pleine mutation, il est indispensable de tirer un bilan rapide de la période  écoulée.
7.6 Monsieur le Président, il y a deux ans, nous pouvions constater avec satisfaction que l'UNESCO  paraissait en bonne voie : aucune divergence de fond ne séparait plus les Etats membres ; le Plan à moyen  terme reflétait à la fois le consensus retrouvé, la volonté des Etats membres d'agir ensemble et leur exigence de  concentrer les activités de programme. Seule nous inquiétait encore l'évolution du Secrétariat, l'absence d'une  politique du personnel et budgétaire adaptée aux objectifs que s'était fixés la Conférence générale.
7.7 Cette dernière contribua alors de trois manières au renforcement de l'Organisation. Tout d'abord, elle  mit virtuellement fin à la querelle sur la communication, qui l'avait déchirée. La Conférence adopta un texte et  une formule proposée par le Japon qui permit à l'UNESCO de définir une nouvelle stratégie en matière de libre  circulation de l'information sans entraves et de diffusion plus large et mieux équilibrée. L'activité du Secrétariat  depuis lors a permis de donner plein effet au compromis réalisé naguère et de restituer sa crédibilité à  l'UNESCO dans ce domaine. Il convient de rendre hommage au Directeur général pour l'effort soutenu et  constant qu'il a déployé en priorité pour la promotion d'une presse libre, indépendante et pluraliste, en Europe  de l'Est et en Afrique notamment. De leur côté, les Etats membres ont accru leur contribution au PIDC, devenu  l'organe essentiel de la coopération multilatérale dans le développement des médias et de la presse. Pour avoir  aussi favorisé cet essor, ma délégation se réjouit particulièrement des succès remportés.
7,8 La Conférence générale a encore tenu à affirmer sa volonté de renforcer l'UNESCO en indiquant les  domaines prioritaires où elle voulait voir, petit à petit, se concentrer l'action de l'Organisation. Elle a décrété  que les économies éventuelles, réalisées en cours d'exercice, devaient être affectées à trois secteurs :  alphabétisation, communication et environnement.
7.9 Pour ce qui est de la communication, nous avons déjà exprimé notre satisfaction. S'agissant de  l'alphabétisation, le bilan est moins réjouissant. D'une part, les dispositions strictes de la résolution 46 n'ont pas  été fidèlement appliquées. D'autre part, la priorité accordée à ces activités n'est pas clairement marquée.  L'alphabétisation devrait être la carte de visite de l'Organisation, son image de marque, le fleuron de son action.  A Jomtien, l'UNESCO avait revendiqué avec raison la direction du suivi de la Conférence mondiale. Dans la  réalité et dans le terrain, il en va autrement. Ni les ressources humaines ni les ressources matérielles ne  traduisent cette volonté dans la pratique.
7.10 — Reste le troisième secteur prioritaire. La Conférence générale avait en effet mis également l'accent sur  la question de l'environnement, à la fois dans sa dimension scientifique et comme facteur lié au développement  en général et à sa dimension culturelle. Dans ce domaine, l'UNESCO possède quelques atouts de taille - par
254   exemple dans le secteur de l'océanographie. Elle gère la politique mondiale de sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel et naturel de l'humanité - mais là encore, avec quels moyens dérisoires !
7,11 Or, si l'on veut examiner la capacité de l'UNESCO de faire face aux grands défis de l'avenir, c'est peut-  être précisément dans le secteur de l'environnement que se situe l'enjeu le plus important de ces prochaines  années pour l'UNESCO. Les chefs d'Etat et de gouvernement se sont donné rendez-vous au mois de juin  prochain à Rio pour définir les enjeux en matière d'environnement pour le XXIe siècle, adopter un plan d'action  pour mettre en oeuvre un développement durable de la planète. L'UNESCO a un rôle à jouer dans ce  gigantesque chantier de l'univers, en matière d'éducation à l'environnement, de recherche et d'observation  scientifiques, de préservation du patrimoine. Mais saura-t-elle le tenir ? Saura-t-elle mobiliser ses ressources ?  Il ne s'agit pas de promouvoir une rivalité hors de propos et coûteuse entre institutions spécialisées. Mais il  s'agit, plus modestement, de mettre l'UNESCO en mesure de remplir la tâche qui lui est assignée, afin qu'elle  relève le défi que je viens d'évoquer.
7,12 A côté de ces trois priorités, qui mériteraient plus d'attention et de soin, il convient de mentionner  également la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel. À ce propos aussi, nous ne pouvons cacher notre  déception devant le faible impact des programmes, l'absence de projet d'envergure et la relative pauvreté des  moyens mis en oeuvre.
7.13 Monsieur le Président, en 1989, à sa vingt-cinquième session, la Conférence générale n'a pas  seulement réaffirmé le principe de la libre circulation des idées ; elle n'a pas seulement indiqué des marches à  suivre en termes de programmes, Elle s'est aussi penchée sur les problèmes de la gestion et de la politique du  personnel. À de très nombreuses reprises, nous sommes déjà intervenus pour préconiser une diminution du  nombre des postes de cadres supérieurs, qui excèdent les possibilités de l'Organisation, une politique de  recrutement mieux ciblée, allant à la recherche de candidates femmes et de jeunes, nous élever contre des  promotions arbitraires ou abusives et demander le respect de la règle de la compétence et de la répartition  géographique équitable. Surtout, il nous paraît inévitable de procéder rapidement à une importante diminution  des effectifs, au vu des lourds frais de personnel qui grèvent le budget et pèsent sur le programme.
7.14 Certes, le Secrétariat a fait en partie écho à nos préoccupations ; d'importantes réformes ont été  entreprises, des améliorations sont esquissées ou promises. Dans deux ans, à coup sûr dans quatre, nous dit-on,  le visage du Secrétariat aura changé. Le nombre d'activités de programme aura diminué. La décentralisation  sera mieux maîtrisée, donc adaptée au programme, et permettra le transfert d'une part plus importante des  activités sur le terrain. Nous prenons acte de ces assurances et donnerons tout notre appui à leur réalisation.  Mais pour rester compétitive, l'UNESCO doit être en mesure d'agir plus rapidement et à meilleur escient.
7,15 Or, il nous paraît que le sentiment de l'urgence des réformes à accomplir devrait être mieux pris en  compte par le Directeur général. Mais cette réserve ne nous empêche nullement de rendre hommage au  Directeur général, dont nous apprécions l'action telle qu'il la mène depuis quatre ans, à la tête du Secrétariat.  On ne peut que le féliciter de sa volonté de réformer l'UNESCO.
7,16 Les critiques que nous avons été amenés à exprimer, notamment au Conseil exécutif, ne nous  dissimulent pas les progrès accomplis. Le Directeur général a su tirer parti de l'évolution des relations  internationales pour mettre en oeuvre un programme enfin dépouillé de contingences politiques extrinsèques. Il  a su prendre également une série d'initiatives bienvenues en vue de renforcer la fonction de l'UNESCO au sein  du système des Nations Unies et sa coopération avec d'autres organisations internationales.
7,17 En dépit des efforts entrepris, en dépit des objectifs déjà atteints, l'Organisation demeurera affaiblie  tant qu'elle n'aura pas retrouvé son universalité, c'est-à-dire tant que la réforme poursuivie n'aura pas convaincu  les Etats qui ont quitté l'UNESCO d'y revenir. Le moment est-il alors opportun pour lancer à ces pays un appel  à revenir au sein de l'Organisation ? D'une part, et ils le savent, nous serions heureux de les accueillir le plus  rapidement possible parmi nous. D'autre part, nous partageons dans l’ensemble les opinions qu'ils émettent sur  nombre d'aspects de la vie de l'Organisation. Leur retour est, il convient de le rappeler, une affaire interne, une  question de souveraineté. Qu'ils sachent bien cependant que les améliorations constatées, soit dans les rapports  entre les Etats membres eux-mêmes, soit dans certaines activités de l'Organisation, nous encouragent à  persévérer dans la ligne que nous suivons, et qu'elles témoignent qu'à nos yeux l'UNESCO est sur la bonne  voie. Oui, elle a un rôle à jouer dans le système des Nations Unies revitalisé, plus efficace, plus fort et plus  compétent que nous appelons également de nos voeux. Cette contribution sera d'autant plus importante que
255   l'UNESCO aura plus rapidement remis sa maison en ordre. L'admission de nouveaux Etats membres, que nous  sommes heureux de voir désormais à nos côtés, ne fait que renforcer cette exigence.
7.18 Monsieur le Président, notre engagement envers l'UNESCO est, vous le voyez, total - engagement en  faveur de ses idéaux, de ses principes et des objectifs fixés dans l'Acte constitutif. Mais nous ne sommes pas liés  à l'institution en tant que telle si celle-ci ne parvient pas à se ressaisir ni à se mettre à la hauteur des tâches qui  l'attendent. En proposant à quelques Etats de réfléchir avec nous, voilà une année, à la réforme institutionnelle  de l'Organisation, reprenant ainsi une idée lancée dès la vingt-quatrième session de la Conférence générale,  nous avons constaté qu'un large consensus existait à propos d'une amélioration rapide du fonctionnement du  Conseil exécutif, susceptible de rendre l'UNESCO plus attentive à la volonté des Etats membres. Des initiatives  ont été prises par d'autres à partir de ce constat, initiatives que nous soutenons et veillerons à faire aboutir. Je  ne parle pas seulement du groupe d'experts que le Conseil exécutif vient de créer. Je pense également au projet  d'amendement à l'Acte constitutif déposé par le Japon, lequel permettra d'associer de plus près les Etats à la  marche de l'Organisation. Ma délégation oeuvrera en faveur de l'adoption des idées japonaises qu'elle a  appuyées dès le début.
7.19 S'il faut renforcer les structures institutionnelles et veiller à une bonne gestion, il convient aussi de ne  pas perdre du vue la finalité de l'UNESCO. Dans un tel ordre d'idée, nous avons noté avec intérêt l'idée de  relancer la mission culturelle et intellectuelle de l'UNESCO, qui fait écho à une proposition que nous avions  avancée en 1987 et 1989, à savoir étudier en profondeur les conditions de la coopération intellectuelle  internationale à venir.
7.20 La démarche qui nous est proposée est d'importance. Elle appelle, croyons-nous, une action  progressive : s'il nous paraît prématuré de prévoir dès maintenant une étude de faisabilité qui déboucherait sur  la création d'un nouvel organe spécifique, il est juste d'attirer l'attention des Etats membres, du Conseil  exécutif, des commissions nationales et du Directeur général sur les moyens dont ils disposent déjà pour  souligner davantage le caractère spécifique du rôle intellectuel de l'UNESCO au sein du système des Nations  Unies. Rien n'empêche, en effet, d'ores et déjà, l'UNESCO d'attirer à elle, à des titres multiples, les  intellectuels, les artistes, les savants, les créateurs. Le fait est qu'ils ne se pressent toujours pas à nos  manifestations, qui leur sont pourtant grandement ouvertes !
7.21 Monsieur le Président, si la réforme de l'UNESCO que nous appelons de nos voeux, à la fois dans son  fonctionnement institutionnel et son modus operandi, n'est pas menée à bien avec détermination dans une  période aussi propice que celle d'aujourd'hui, le retour de l'Organisation à l'universalité ne pourra pas être  réalisé, ce qui condamnerait l'UNESCO au dépérissement.
7.22 Cette réforme s'inscrit dans la ligne d'une vaste remise en cause de toute la coopération internationale,  visant à la rendre plus efficace, mieux adaptée aux besoins, en évitant gaspillage et double emploi. La refonte  de la Charte des Nations Unies est fréquemment évoquée et, comme je l'ai dit, la redistribution des tâches est à  l'ordre du jour de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur l'environnement et le développement. L'UNESCO doit se  préparer à cette échéance, se renforcer et se tenir prête à abattre ses cartes au moment opportun.
7.23 Pour notre part, nous pensons apporter une contribution à ce stade crucial en proposant, avec  l'Espagne, le renforcement du Secteur des sciences sociales, autrefois centre nerveux de toute l'activité  intellectuelle de l'UNESCO, et qui devrait être restauré comme tel. Nous avons noté avec satisfaction le soutien  de principe que le Secrétariat a apporté à notre projet, qui consisterait à envisager de créer un Programme  international de sciences sociales, et nous espérons que la Conférence générale voudra bien se rallier à cette  proposition. Nous pensons en effet qu'il vaut mieux renforcer et moderniser les structures existantes qu'ouvrir  prématurément de nouveaux champs d'activité à l'UNESCO.
7,24 Monsieur le Président, en conclusion, je dirai que le bilan que nous tirons des quatre années écoulées  ne nous incite pas encore à l'optimisme, mais qu'il nous conduit à redoubler d'efforts sur la voie d'une réforme  en profondeur de l'UNESCO. D'indéniables progrès ont été accomplis en matière de communication et de  gestion. Il faut maintenant aller plus vite et plus loin si l'on veut que l'institution puisse apporter une réponse  adéquate aux interrogations et aux besoins de la communauté internationale, dans ses domaines de compétence  et conformément à ses idéaux. Les améliorations sont urgentes ; elles ne sauraient souffrir de nouveaux délais.  Les priorités définies par la Conférence générale doivent être mieux respectées, et les programmes y relatifs,  mieux dotés. J'espère que la Conférence générale apportera quelques réponses à ces préoccupations, Ma  délégation oeuvrera en tout cas dans ce sens. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Switzerland and I now call upon the Hon. Mr P.M. Mabathoana,  Assistant Minister for Education and head of the delegation of Lesotho.
9.1 Mr MABATHOANA (Lesotho):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable ministers,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Lesotho delegation and on my own behalf, may  I extend to you, Mr President, our sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General  Conference. We wish you and all of us a successful session.
9.2 The Lesotho delegation wishes to pay tribute to the Executive Board under its able Chairman and to  the Secretariat for the efficient and harmonious manner in which it has addressed various crucial issues during  the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993.
9.3 The twenty-sixth session of the General Conference is a major landmark in UNESCO history, an  eventful history in which the Organization has experienced success. We welcome the positive changes in  Eastern Europe following the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the end of the Cold War and the demise of the  communist threat, the initiatives being taken in South Africa towards a complete and full eradication of  apartheid and preparation for majority rule under a democratically elected government, and the initiatives  taking place in the Middle East.
94 Mr President, before addressing the various policy issues, our delegation wishes to extend  congratulations and a warm welcome to Namibia which has recently been admitted to UNESCO. We look  forward to future co-operation in UNESCO activities with Namibia. We also wish to extend our warm welcome  and congratulations to Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu on their admission as members of the UNESCO  household. We wish these new Member States prosperity and success on the difficult path to peace and  tranquillity in their respective countries.
9.5 Mr President, allow me to begin my address by indicating that Lesotho fully supports the practical  decentralization measures that the Secretariat plans to undertake under the able direction and leadership of the  Director-General. Whilst we welcome these important measures, like Iran, we feel the expansion of the  administrative horizons should not be at the expense of important and desirable priority interventions that  Member States wish to see during the coming biennium. We therefore call on the Secretariat to embark on the  decentralization exercise with great care, ascertaining that important interventions are not sacrificed.
9.6 I also wish to register my country's support for the innovative thinking regarding the establishment of  a UNESCO forum. In my opinion, such a forum would provide an important and essential facility in which  intellectuals from Member States would put their minds together to discuss problems and challenges facing  those States. In other words, the forum would become UNESCO's ‘think tank”.
9.7 Mr President, allow me now to turn to the major programme areas that UNESCO has been supporting  and continues to support in our national development efforts: I shall begin with Major Programme Area I  (Education and the future). Lesotho subscribes fully to the World Declaration on Education adopted at the  Jomtien World Conference on Education for All and its framework for action, and the plan of action for the  eradication of illiteracy by the year 2000. We applaud the work of the Inter-Agency Commission, consisting of  UNDP, UNESCO, UNICEF and the World Bank in organizing the Jomtien Conference. We note with  appreciation the leadership role being played by UNESCO in the follow-up and implementation of the  framework for action. UNESCO organized regional and subregional meetings on improving learning outcomes  in basic education in preparation for the international symposium on significant strategies to ensure the success  of all in basic school which was held in Lisbon in May 1991 in collaboration with the Portuguese Government.  Lesotho supports the southern African subregional proposals endorsed by the Lisbon symposium.
9.8 In Lesotho our strategy is to increase the quality, efficiency and relevance of educational programmes  at all levels. However, priority is on primary education, as reflected in our five-year development plan which  has just been completed. At this level we intend to reduce overcrowding by constructing and furnishing  additional classrooms. Quality improvement is to be achieved through a number of strategies that include the  increase in the supply of instructional materials and strengthening of the dissemination and distribution of  these materials, the rationalization of the curriculum, expansion of the district resource teacher network,
257   recruitment of additional teachers to reduce the currently high pupil:teacher ratios, and increasing in-service  training opportunities.
9.9 My country is committed to the promotion of literacy for youth and adults, and to the establishment of  clear guidelines on the interface between formal and non-formal education. We have also adopted a policy of  education with production in an attempt both to bridge the gap between school and the world of work and to  make education more relevant to the needs of the country. Where the young child and the family environment  are concerned, we subscribe to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African  Charter on Children's Rights and Welfare. Early child development is being promoted through the training of  teachers, the formation of national curriculum guidelines, and the establishment of a data base for pre-school  centres. The same applies to special education.
9.10 — At the secondary school level, Lesotho is embarking on resource reallocation, restricting the number of  new schools and establishing the pupil:teacher ratios at acceptable levels, and strengthening of the teaching of  English, mathematics and science. In vocational/technical institutions and at the National Teacher Training  College we intend to expand and upgrade programmes and improve the quality. At the university level we plan  to introduce more coherent academic programmes and improved planning. In all of the above initiatives we  look forward to continued support from UNESCO in collaboration with other Member States and donor  agencies.
9.11 Mr President, next I wish to comment on Major Programme Area II (Science for progress and the  environment). Lesotho welcomes the proposals focusing on such spheres as environment protection and natural  resources management, environmental education and information, conservation of biological diversity and  natural heritage and the INFORMAFRICA project. It is our view that one important approach to environmental  problems lies through the deployment of various educational, cultural and social measures to produce people  who have a deep concern for, and a proper attitude towards the environment. In the INFORMAFRICA project,  which comes under the Priority: Africa programme, we wish to call upon UNESCO to assist us to develop our  informatics and its use in our educational system. Allow me, Mr President, to express at this juncture our  gratitude to UNESCO for the financial assistance we received for hosting an international conference on  computing in southern Africa.
9.12 Let me turn now to Major Programme Area IH (Culture: past, present and future). We in Lesotho see  our needs reflected in the provisions of document 26 C/S, for example those activities involving women, young  people and underprivileged groups, such as the disabled; the collection of major works of oral traditions and  traditional music; and the celebration of cultural events promoting the mutual appreciation of cultures and  cultural exchanges. At this point, Mr President, allow me to express our gratitude to UNESCO for the  assistance provided to Lesotho in carrying out a study on collection of traditional musical mstruments and  recording their music on tape, and the hosting of a seminar on international safeguarding campaigns. We  would welcome more practical assistance for the restoration and preservation of our national monument,  Thaba-Bosiu.
9.13 Let me now, Mr President, turn to Major Programme Area IV (Communication in the service of  humanity). I strongly believe that the free flow of information is among the most important values that we  should protect on behalf of mankind. It is in this context that UNESCO launched the International Programme  for the Development of Communication (IPDC) by consensus among all Member States, in an effort to reduce  shortcomings in the flow of information by developing good communication infrastructures.
9.14 But, Mr President, the gap which exists between the different countries and regions in this regard has  to be bridged by training and reinforcement of communication infrastructures. Activities which would be of  immediate help to us in the developing countries, notably in Lesotho, would comprise the provision of  equipment, the training of communication and information personnel, the enhancing of information exchange  within the country, and the strengthening of infrastructures as basic steps towards the realization of a free and  more balanced flow of information in the world.
9.15 However, on a more appreciative note, let me commend the efforts made by Germany which has done  great work in developing the communication capacities of UNESCO's Member States in the Southern and East  Africa Subregional (SENAD) project. This project has brought to Lesotho benefits through the setting up of the  Lesotho News Agency (LENA), the provision of equipment and the training of personnel. We would, however,  wish to call for more assistance under the regular programme to enable our journalists, television and radio
258   personnel to attend more training courses to enhance the knowledge and skills that will enable them to cope  effectively with the demands of modern communication technology.
9.16 Mr President, regarding Major Programme Area V (The social and human sciences in a changing  world), Lesotho wishes to record her appreciation to UNESCO for supporting two national activities under this  programme during this last biennium. These were: a subregional conference on peace, reconciliation and post  apartheid reconstruction in southern Africa - the role of workers; and the compilation of a list of businesses in  which women are involved in view of identification of the role of women. These are important issues for  Lesotho, considering the fact that changes in South Africa are affecting the migrant labour system upon which  our economy is heavily dependent. The retrenchment in the southern African mining industry is a new  phenomenon that has implications for future economic trends in Lesotho.
9.17 Lesotho is planning to participate actively in UNESCO's activities related to the social human  sciences, under both the regular programme and the Participation Programme. We intend to give priority to the  development and the mobilization of human resources for sustainable development. The problem of shortage of  skilled manpower we are encountering will necessitate systematic deployment of resources, training in analysis,  formulation, monitoring and evaluation of development strategies. Attention will be given to development  efforts in the rural areas, partly to combat rural-urban migration. Priority will go to those populations that have  hitherto been marginalized, that is, women and youth. Ways and means of involving them in the labour market  will be explored. The role of women as agents of social change will be strengthened through elimination of all  forms of discrimination against them and the recognition of their legal status. Let me add that we plan to adopt  an integrated development strategy, particularly by incorporating cultural and environmental dimensions of  development.
9.18 During the past two years, Lesotho has been actively engaged in articulating a national population  policy, mainly through the support of UNDP/UNFPA. This exercise will be completed during the coming  biennium. The assistance of UNESCO will be needed in the implementation of the policy guidelines,  particularly issues of population education, and in other areas within the Organization's competence.
919 Mr President, my government is observing with active interest the winds of change that are sweeping  across the Republic of South Africa. This phenomenon is bound to have a bearing on peace, human rights and  the elimination of racial discrimination in this part of the world. As a neighbour, Lesotho is prepared to play its  role in the efforts to promote the attainment of a new South Africa. Finally, Lesotho plans to strengthen the  infrastructure for information and documentation to cater for various activities under Major Programme  Area V. The need for such infrastructure is felt particularly in the mountainous parts of the country. Thank you.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Lesotho. Now I call upon H.E. Mr Per Unckel, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Sweden.
11.1 Mr UNCKEL (Sweden):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let  me first of all, Mr President, join all the previous speakers in congratulating you personally upon your election  as President of the General Conference. Mr President, as we all know, UNESCO can be looked upon in  different ways, depending on which of its many important roles one wants to stress. Let me here today, on  behalf of my country, put forward UNESCO's function as a meeting-place. UNESCO serves its tasks best by  providing a forum where experts and politicians can meet in order to find solutions to common problems. It is  important to preserve this role as a meeting-place for people with different backgrounds. Therefore, one of  UNESCO's primary tasks is to promote cross-cultural relations.
11.2 Mr President, the relationship between freedom and democracy on the one hand and peace and  stability on the other, is of central importance: this is true for Europe but it is also true for all other parts of the  world. The democratic developments which we have seen in so many parts of the world, particularly during the  latter half of the 1980s are therefore encouraging. We can witness promising developments in many parts of  Africa. And this past decade has seen a return of democracy in Latin America. The demands for democracy  have become a powerful force. We are convinced that these demands will prevail. Needless to say, this process  confirms the purposes for which the United Nations system was created. UNESCO can and should play an  important role in this respect. Now is the time for all of us to do more in this ficld than ever before.
11.3 The United Nations system should also take an active part in the defence of human rights in all  countries. These efforts should be further developed. To safeguard freedom of speech is especially important  because this right is an inseparable part of human dignity. Too often we have witnessed sertous violations of  this and other human rights. The respect of these rights is vital to the efforts to achieve international peace and  security.
114 Mr President, Europe has experienced a revolution in liberty. New conditions and new opportunities  have opened up in our part of the world. Communism has been defeated in one country after another. We  welcome whole-heartedly our friends in Central and Eastern Europe into the family of free and democratic  nations. Your new freedom will be of the utmost importance also for cultural and intellectual growth in our part  of the world. In this context, I note with the greatest satisfaction that Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia have been  installed as members of UNESCO. The Swedish Government welcomes with enthusiasm these States - which  are especially close to our hearts - into the Organization and looks forward to continued close contacts. We also  welcome the State of Tuvalu.
11.5 With the democratization of Central and Eastern Europe, old, artificial barriers have been demolished.  This is most encouraging. We now bear a joint responsibility to prevent the erection of new barriers, which  might lead to a renewed division of the European continent. The new democracies must be included in steadily  closer co-operation with the other countries in Europe, be it political, economic, cultural or in other fields. In  different ways - bilaterally and in co-operation with other governments - Sweden has tried to promote the  change to freedom and to democratic systems. This commitment will stand firm.
116 I should like, Mr President, to underline here that the efforts of the Swedish Government in Europe  will not affect our assistance to other parts of the world. But we will stress the importance of freedom,  democracy and a market economy as the necessary tools to shape a brighter tomorrow. Freedom is an integral  part of true development.
11.7 — Some Member States, notably in East and Central Europe, want UNESCO to play an active role in  strengthening democracy. In draft resolution 26 C/DR.80 submitted by the USSR, Belarus and Ukraine, there is  a request for the Director-General, inter alia, to draw up a special intersectoral programme to support the  introduction of democratic reforms by strengthening parliamentary forms of democracy in the countries of  Eastern Europe. In 26 C/DR.62, Czechoslovakia is asking for support, especially in Major Programme Areas 1,  II and III to countries in the period of their transition to democracy.
11.8 Mr President, the future is impossible to foresee. That is the only thing we can foresee. Developments  will take place which we cannot predict in our Medium-Term Plan, the base for our programmes.  Consequently, there must be some flexibility within the planning process and in the plans. The Organization  must be able to respond to new well-defined and relevant requests for support, based on changes on the national  and global stage. And UNESCO should be able to do so without having to redefine the overall priorities laid  down by the General Conference.
119 Mr President, during the last few years, and especially in the last nine months, the momentum of  reform in UNESCO has grown stronger. The Secretariat has initiated a reform programme largely based on the  so-called Hammarskjôld Report. At the same time the Executive Board has also been subjected to certain  important reform proposals, one of which has a direct link to a Swedish proposal put forward some 20 years  ago. Let me say that Sweden supports these reform efforts whole-heartedly. They will in our view lead to a  more efficient UNESCO, in regard to both the Secretariat and the governing bodies. We hope that this positive  momentum will be maintained and strengthened in the next few years. It is only through a strong, effective and  important UNESCO that we can attract all governments to become and remain members of our Organization.  Let me add that we very much regret that some States have chosen not to be present here as members of today's  UNESCO. UNESCO cannot fulfil its mandate or its functions properly so long as it is not a truly global  organization. We hope it will not be long before universality is restored.
11.10 Mr President, in 1988 the Nordic countries set up a project to determine how we could contribute to  the discussion on the reform of the United Nations in the economic and social fields. The final report has been  published recently. One of the conclusions of the project 1s that the Specialized Agencies, among them  UNESCO, ought to strengthen their 'centre-of-excellence' role in order to become more qualified and relevant  within their mandates. This would enable them better to meet the needs of all Member States for advice and  analysis in matters of global concern.
11.11 The study holds that the Specialized Agencies should have first and foremost an analytical and  normative function. As regards operational, extra-budgetary activities, it is stressed that these must be  organized in such a manner as to allow the governing bodies to ensure that established priorities are not  watered down.
11.12 On the issue of governance and leadership, the study has come to the conclusion that the 'meeting-  place’ function is quite different from that of the operational or ‘executive’ function. It is recommended  therefore that these two roles be better defined to form a coherent whole.
11.13 If we want UNESCO to accept these challenges and to become a true ‘centre of excellence’, we must  not only look at the draft programme and budget, but also discuss how we want UNESCO to function. For  many years a debate on decentralization has been going on in UNESCO, and various models have been  presented. Some of these ideas tend either to suggest ‘mini UNESCOs' or local offices for one region or offices  for one of UNESCO's many fields of competence only. My government believes that the solution should be to  rely on existing structures in Member States, rather than to create new ones. A regional office for science and  technology could be connected to an existing institution such as a research council or a university.
11.14 These iv... on decentralization should also be seen in the light of the Information Resources  Development Plan. During the last session of the General Conference an elaborated plan was presented. The  new plan is more modest, and I hope that it will be adopted. We cannot expect UNESCO to fulfil its role in the  international community if it does not have adequate equipment and a well-trained staff. A complex  organization like ours must function properly, and in the same way as we put high demands on our national  authorities, we must be able to ask for the same standards in UNESCO's work. If the quality of the work, the  administration and the equipment in UNESCO is not up to modern standards, we shall find ourselves with  difficulties at home when we ask for support for the Organization - not only when asking our experts to take  part in the actual work of the Organization but also when bringing up questions of financial support.
11.15 Today, Mr President, there exist a number of organizations trying to fulfil almost the same tasks as  UNESCO. There are, of course, differences between these organizations; some are regional, some cover only  one of UNESCO's fields. But the competition is there. This means that the organization which is best, i.e. the  organization which best meets the demands of professional circles and governments will be the one of greatest  interest to them. I do not want to see the interest shifting away from UNESCO. I want UNESCO to be  interesting, relevant and efficient. I want our best experts to take part in its work.
11.16 I find it important for us to discuss not only what we get from UNESCO but also how we can  contribute to its work. And in this context let me underline the importance of what is being done by the non-  governmental organizations. If we want UNESCO to function in a more efficient manner, if we want its  activities to be interesting and rewarding for those who participate in them, we must also be prepared to pay our  contributions. We cannot expect to get good results from our Organization if we do not see to it that it has the  financial resources which we ourselves have decided upon in the General Conference. It 1s disturbing that  governments sometimes seem to speak with two tongues - one when the budget is adopted and the rules of  payment set, and another when it comes to actually paying the contributions. It is also highly unsatisfactory that  the interest payments on the loans that the Organization is forced to take up should have to be paid by those  governments which loyally and promptly fulfil their obligations.
11.17 The main task for this session of the General Conference is to discuss the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1992-1993. We very much support the attempts further to concentrate the programme ‘on some well-  defined priority areas. My delegation will present its more detailed views on the draft programme and budget in  the commissions. Our overall impression, based on the opinions of many authorities, non-governmental  organizations and other bodies in Sweden, is that UNESCO is moving in the right direction.
11.18 Mr President, let me conclude by mentioning briefly two specific items. In 1992 the United Nations  Conference on Environment and Development will be held in Brazil. It is essential that the co-operation  between UNESCO, the Preparatory Committee and the secretariat of the Conference is active and includes both  science and education at all levels. Education and awareness-building in the field of environment and  development are issues that fall naturally within UNESCO's mandate. They should be given special attention.  UNESCO should play the key role in developing environmental education programmes oriented towards  sustainable development and directed at each and every one of us.
11.19 Another issue recently placed on the agenda is the question of preparing a world report on culture and  development. We have been looking favourably on the idea of such a report, since we feel that it would increase  our knowledge regarding the situation of culture in the world today, and also bring up important questions  relating to the cultural dimension of development. We shall follow the debates on this report very closely. It is  my sincere hope that the General Conference will take a positive stand on this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
12. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Sweden and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Jamiruddin Sircar,  Minister of Education, Science and Technology and head of the delegation of Bangladesh.
13.1 Mr SIRCAR (Bangladesh):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all,  Mr President, to offer on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf our warmest felicitations on your  election to the presidency of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference which, I am sure, will find a  befitting guide and leader in you and thus be able to hold extremely productive deliberations and take wise  decisions.
13.2 I also feel it obligatory on my part to express our heartfelt gratitude to the Director-General for his very  momentous and fruitful visit to Bangladesh prior to the historic World Conference on Education for All in  Jomtien in March 1990, and for his keenness to offer help to our country, especially by way of approving most  of the proposals submitted under the Participation Programme during the 1990-1991 biennium. We also  congratulate Mr Mayor on his very judicious and able leadership in furthering the causes of UNESCO for the  past four years.
13.3 Mr President, I really feel privileged and honoured to represent the people of Bangladesh in delivering  to this august assembly the message of the triumph of democracy in our country; and I wish you to share with  us the joy of this achievement of our people, whose indomitable courage has always prompted them at times of  intense crisis to have recourse to what is only right.
13.4 — Mr President, the people of Bangladesh are extremely tolerant and the country's nature through the  ages has taught them to be so. To exist by fighting against the turbulent elements is, in fact, a matter of course  for our people. This is a sacred struggle, waged so composedly by them that it has become a legend; and when  in last April another fatal blow of cyclone and tidal surge hit the coastal area of Bangladesh, all the world knew  for sure that as we are used to fighting against natural calamities, we would have both the physical and mental  strength to survive this catastrophe with dignity: we have, indeed, done so, with the co-operation of the  countries which helped us.
135 The world today is going through a period of unprecedented transition and as a result of a new  awakening all around the globe, its map is also assuming a new shape. The struggle for the emancipation of  man has always been esteemed highly by us and we cannot but express our solidarity with it. Hence, on behalf  of the Government and the people of Bangladesh, I unhesitatingly declare today the inseparable unity with the  UNESCO spirit that is engaged in inculcating in the hearts of humankind the feeling of oneness - which is the  sole and single answer to the threats that hang over our survival.
13.6 Mr President, the beginning of the final decade of this century witnessed two very significant events  initiated by the United Nations and UNESCO: International Literacy Year; and the Jomtien Conference. These  two events have had a far-reaching impact on the educational planning of Bangladesh. From 1967 to 1989,  observance of International Literacy Day offered exceptional opportunities to call the attention of the general  public and leaders of public opinion to the illiteracy situation, and in 1990 the celebration of International  Literacy Year revealed to us that literacy is an essential ingredient of individual and social development.  Because at the individual level literacy helps change people's thinking and feeling about themselves and the  world around them, and at the societal level it helps to promote capacities, predispositions and conditions for  social transformation. But most of all, International Literacy Year has led us to realize that the benefits of  literacy are quite as often political as they are economic. We believe that literacy is the basic right of man, and  that for political participation in social life it is a virtual prerequisite. We also maintain that to a democratically  elected government, to which my delegation truly belongs, the eradication of illiteracy undoubtedly tops the list  of priorities in the political manifesto. In this connection, two very important decisions have been taken by our  government towards universalization of primary education: the introduction of compulsory primary education  from 1992; and the institution of free education for girls up to grade eight. You would all agree that the last-
262   mentioned decision is in full conformity with the valued slogan of this year's International Literacy Day -  educate a woman, educate a nation,
13.7 Mr President, soon after assuming office, our government embarked on plans to accelerate the mass  education programme initiated by the late President Ziaur Rohman as long ago as 1979 and, regrettably, placed  in very low gear by the previous regime. Under this reconstruction programme we have given special emphasis  to and taken effective steps for compulsory primary education wherein we will have a non-formal education  programme and modalities.
138 — The Jomtien Conference also served as an eye-opener for us in another direction, by impressing on us  that the eradication of illiteracy is today a collective and global task . This in turn has also given rise to the idea  that mere transfer of content from a knowledgeable and authoritative source to a passive learner does nothing to  promote the receiver's growth as a person unless the latter is really conscious of, capable of contributing to, and  interested in influencing his or her society. The realization has dawned because at the Conference in Jomtien  the emphasis was rightly on the basic needs of the learner.
139 As I mentioned, Mr President, the World Conference on Education for All has stimulated our  government to plan a number of very important measures towards achieving universal primary education by the  year 2000. Our targets are, in brief: a gross enrolment ratio raised from 67 per cent to 80 per cent or more in
1995 and 90 per cent by 2000; female enrolment raised to 65 per cent in 1995 and 90 per cent in the year 2000;  a drop-out rate reduced to 40 per cent or less by 1995 and to zero per cent by 2000-2010; improved quality of  education; improved management of the primary education subsector; the promotion of non-formal primary  education; the provision of ‘second chance education’ to drop-outs; and the promotion of formal and non-formal  education through the electronic media.
13.10 In addition, we have planned to make extra provisions for youth and adult education, and in this  connection we have set the goal of raising the rate of youth and adult literacy to 45 per cent by 1995 and 65 per  cent or more by the year 2000. We have pragmatic plans for post-literacy too, for we know from experience that  all our literacy endeavours will be baffled if we do not nurture a mechanism for continued education.
13.11 Mr President, obviously this is no easy task. We need national, regional and global co-operation in this  respect, and an international organization like UNESCO can play the role of a potential forum for all of us.  Please let me place on record in this connection the help extended to Bangladesh by the International Institute  for Educational Planning (ITEP) in developing educational planning personnel, of which we have great dearth.
13.12 I alluded earlier to the fact that Bangladesh 1s geographically a delta prone to natural disasters. Given,  in addition, its rapidly increasing population, it has become imperative on our part to integrate components of  environmental instruction into both formal and non-formal curricula. We record with great appreciation  UNESCO's role in developing and improving materials on population education, environmental pollution,  cyclone preparedness, disaster management, afforestation, the greenhouse effect and the warming up of the  Earth's environment, and Man and the Biosphere programme.
13.13 Mr President, in cultural matters, UNESCO has always been extremely co-operative, The programme  for the preservation of the world cultural heritage has taken under its wing the Paharpür Buddhist Monastery  and the Sait Gumbad Mosque in Bangladesh. In addition, during the 1990-1991 biennium the Asian Cultural  Centre for UNESCO initiated a considerable number of cultural activities in Bangladesh, including the  publication of books for children. We earnestly look forward to keeping up these activities in ‘the future, in  collaboration with UNESCO.
13.14 Mr President, we have meticulously examined the recommendations of the Executive Board on the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5), and we sincerely feel that the members of the Board  deserve congratulations for the practical wisdom they have shown in preparing this document, for most of the  programmes are in full agreement with our national plans on education, science, culture, communication and  social science. I am sure some other member countries will also find the recommendations very useful for their  purposes.
13.15 Mr President, we have been able to identify a number of fields where greater co-operation could be  effected and benefit derived. Among them we may mention programmes on basic education for all; follow-up of  the World Conference on Education for All; Mobilizing Project 1 (Combating illiteracy); early childhood
263   development; technical and vocational education (I would insist particularly on this); the comparative study of  the quality of education; science and technology for development; environment and natural resources  management; environmental education and information; participation of women in science and technology co-  operation; the cultural dimension of development; cultural identities and intercultural relations; preservation  and enhancement of the physical cultural heritage; free flow of information; freedom of the press; and activities  under the transverse themes, especially programmes on the role of women in development, social change and  the protection of the environment and the participation of youth in the various activities, including intercultural  youth exchanges.
13.16 Mr President, it is truly gratifying to note that UNESCO's activities are constantly being streamiined to  match the needs and aspirations of the Member States. For our collective benefit, we strongly recommend that  extra efforts be made to bring the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore back to the Organization's  fold.
13.17 Mr President, we endorse with full conviction the principles and purposes of UNESCO as before and  thus pledge to pool all our endeavours in building a community of free, happy, literate and prosperous human  beings. Member States cannot live today in isolation. All that is necessary is concerted unity of thought in the  global plan. It is cultural unity, a human approach towards life, compulsory education up to certain standards,  universal education, and scientific and technical education which will eradicate illiteracy and improve specific  scientific method. All that is necessary is peaceful coexistence providing financial and scientific means,  technical and vocational training, good understanding and tolerance. Certainly, Mr President, it is necessary to  accept the commitment to fulfil these objectives, and to look more especially at the environment, which is  changing so very quickly throughout the world. Mr President, democracy and progress cannot develop from  poverty: so poverty is a curse which must be eliminated, as of tomorrow; to achieve that, the development of  education is a prime necessity. A programme of vocational education and training, science and technical  education has to be implemented so that this world of ours will be a happier place to live in for all. Thank you.
14.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Bangladesh. That brings us to the end of the morning list. We  now start on the afternoon list and we have 14 speakers: any shortening of statements would be welcome.
142 I now give the floor to HE. Mr Abdel Basit Sabdarat, Minister of Education and head of the  delegation of Sudan.  : (old) CH ydsee Saudi TI  pale pui cashg)l plisely 215588 Balad] Colaal salad] sual) Subic 5H IIS gulall Guat; Sad  le Boll) 43555 all pila! juan JSS AI) gS pl) Laie pada (ri PLV ada Anh Ga WE Tan 55  sents) Taina i ASL EST GUY pan Gaal) gual alle auld) Tall caus yi Gla  Olas) yar cra Buia Talia suing Guandly gas Il Jalal Ga aah 3500 Lays pod LSE paie JS ES  Chae a bday Jods Lanas pildgs GUA all ous L)laa BLAS a 500 albus pL Lua  pÉus pdt ol Slitely pa VI BSS Cpa JSI IS 5 LAND Gladiwd | Usptees sasall al) Leaking Lata]  le 353 Js da5a) Ladd has boas Lo¥ Claas Jp] 5555 of aaa” LA 03 pladl aul! $91 JG LS  Vses tlgluay Llsialy Lote sh ple pay ob ULES) FINIS s SES alia Go Cantine s4by Cia sie  Jaad) Ll; ph gg Lad la Lads) Gadady poled) pi od Lisa ped) SAIS ad l, aS300 Takia) ody) SU Ni és  i  Saal pal) bain TLS pp 4p 95003 Gi) SST 50 ons USA A Gus gad) Ula 5) cual Bolas NON  LreleïaŸl palall es BIS IA La guns s Jun ls LA y Das) ly paie LADA 155 Alaa] Jad) 5505  Lisl) pol Sles ga Gl (WA = (Alo3Yly clawmisll sunday Blade paisll os Luagdadl pylally  ih Bayes Las Ge SU y celà JS) Lablally S800) SIL plasaÿly Le lis] Lelady Lac walla pibaly  Lui sis LOU fais ya il al) alls oll pbk) say (pa il UT clashed! Lans y plalalsy Gays id  asad 56 ha Abb] pla padan Less aseoll Gle Gis ES GAIN le rs SN (gi (G05 5
264   Sad pad} J gs  oF he sSa pall “gh sania” plat Laslill Glaus od (SAIS Gulall Guys ol ead of Bde LS Vo, ¥  JS dads Lali Ulin Gla Ce 3508 JSS Baad Gly Ga Sal) JS Shas lasatiay Spat poaadl (catia 5550  (pale 1 etdl LS y Glad anus y alla]
13555 daa Ge Vjaate sla VAATSVANY slid) peated 2ail3ally galinoall godin of eyes Soles Vo, 8  LS Ail) Talal) wl pa3 ll clings pe Wika Gils ola 3 ilshly canal JS Gia ilo Glial doa ay  Fad JF SLI JS a3 y eal 1555 (gl) CLAS lay Tail) Jal oa Lis yd 53S plod) Li pas aati sl  diay sad Uda jae ld) Hal Gad 50,05 Las Aly Gay Jladd] ges Gand! 3a! Gavan  CaS MO Lian YT ae end pid) ents J) Talis U pie pa Lalas isa  ob ta (SI Saal Sas daly dant Lily las Glass Cod) JSUa of utd) sal Vo, 0  ALA bla oll f SSL Jad 5 pla sas Ale age Lili 5585 of Jabs gly Jul,  Loaa¥l ain yu ARS Gi LG 8505 old 0b Loh Tals GES Taal alas put) subi BSI LS Vo, 1  sas eh Yada 5 Shand pas SSII eel LY1 Joli Lisa Ca  JAans ES JU of S30,  ULLT 5la gas Gigi bn] ce Gaga SLT 1 LalS Hu dana Ci id) Guallly Wall gadis i pakiay pal  Luis Pay Guiding Cosa peal cual Sa cdans Cosa quai lopli Lad daa polasl! Uialya Ga  Awd  SYS Lady J,lis ay aud] Op ll las ob Leslie 150 Lda] Ula, plas LUS Sud pad] of NOV  Jobo LUI, L,Sall Lol yd) 5505) Labial) pe Lal sbae¥) Judd Jess LS yall eld 3s) ob soa  di alata) Hla] iy pant] Toil) doa Ald) a3 Lun 555 alls oli sa Jelisll ell 355
5355 Ge ocean VAL ple Jybi/paatse i Lips gail lubed) Joa Lagi ade Glos! sie (Jelisd)  Loladial pigs 3500 ay pleat) Lida lalaely Sal Sy pall) Juels gold] pala] pass Basan Landes  Layo J BOYS HSU Ga pu lall CASA glued go Wad Gaus gobaia dl Lan ys oS AU 31,10 Lalas  Lalasial ist a aad) 31500 al pm (AL ANSE Guo lall db opal es LAS shoe Lad (opleass u1K3  shill ulated Glo Ld paad 52353 A Ta) gas Una Liga] pally alebially upusll 4b 5560 Lala  gals guleay Yale sla! JUIN Saad a  GAUL 03a JHE Ge TuaŸf palin sue le pS gd] clases Juding plaid JS a (500 Jasduy V0, A  saa Gal) add) Las help ally Laa¥ le oldill Ualid) Unall paige Tala¥ sai andy 3asaall  Of sass LS . WAN ale a alliy Liaw £0 dl lai Ve Ga andl Li ob Taal ad cial pale ques Taal  Laalall wba] ob od uid] ase FRE 31 ASE AIT Je qd ALT SS ES ST y GASH gall J) Sais  Slaala puad clan] LS Jal LATE cdl adie (J) Jad VAL ple gd Ji tie sai HH AVI Lad a  wold) suse! palin wats of Jlall Vin 55 155 Slosad) ola] JS dy laa pase) lay duos  Jali oa Joall wlaalas LWilaala oa SWIG" Gad a Lis pla 55 oly Ald) plas pa pds y aud yoy  SRI y dal) Labige Blais fay ps La OI Lunalad) aad SUE LSS) GLY pb SO pal) 3215 Si  coda LI lS Gilad Lilaals slain le
265   Ladd of Ulin US i Jyh0] Lani) ais of OSes Ÿ FSU AIL saad] JAI Jia ol plas guess NO,  pis LU 5465 of cad Ligh bin isa pid] OU asad] phen padi SLA of Lay Goals LAS oly
2235 Blea Tlalpan Gosia LISA saga) Takin Gf canny 300 Lis pif cise oF gas Il LES  Aas A Lua Sule pobdly p Lad) Joshi V5 elica¥) le SI NYSE ud JS Lhe alot Leeds anal  GS uy
(15.1) M. SABDARAT (Soudan) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres et les  membres des délégations, nous voici réunis ces jours-ci au Siège de l'UNESCO, cette conscience vivante du  monde et ce poumon qu'irrigue l'oxygène de la liberté, hier encore rare dans un monde qui étouffait sous la  rivalité des grandes puissances. Nous voici donc réunis à l'UNESCO, ce forum intellectuel qui nous offre une  précieuse occasion d'approfondir notre réflexion et qui éclaire pour quelques jours un espace où l'on peut se  pencher de plus près sur des questions de civilisation intimement liées à la science et à la culture, un espace qui  préserve quelque peu de la tyrannie du politique et de son nouvel ordre sécuritaire, un espace où la polarisation  cède la place à la participation de tous les peuples de la planète, car l'UNESCO doit, comme l'a dit son Directeur  général, appartenir à tous les Etats. En effet, nous avons tous besoin de l'UNESCO pour faire taire la morgue du  puissant face au faible, pour mettre fin à l'oppression du faible par le puissant et pour établir une osmose entre les  cultures au sein d'un monde où régneraient la paix, le respect mutuel, l'égalité et la justice. Nous voici donc à  l'UNESCO pour réaffirmer sa mission éternelle : propager la paix, réaliser le développement durable et lever haut  l'étendard de la justice entre les peuples.
(15.2) Monsieur le Président, la mission de l'UNESCO consiste à établir un équilibre entre le rôle intellectuel  qui la distingue des autres organisations du système des Nations Unies et son rôle opérationnel dans ses domaines  de compétence qui sont l'enseignement, l'éducation, la culture, la communication, et, surtout, le rapprochement  entre les sciences sociales et les sciences de la nature, afin que le progrès soit équilibré, pluridisciplinaire et  multidimensionnel. Voilà pourquoi nous sommes en faveur de la réforme de l'Organisation et de ses méthodes de  travail, pourquoi nous voulons que son action soit bénéfique et que l'on s'intéresse aux effets tant immédiats que  durables de cette action. Pour nous assurer du sérieux de ce que nous préconisons, nous avons étudié  attentivement les réformes proposées par la délégation du Japon et celles proposées par les délégations de  l'Allemagne et de la France. Nous approuvons, Monsieur le Président, le texte sur lequel il y a eu consensus,  concernant la proposition japonaise, afin d'obtenir un amendement qui établisse les droits de tous les pays, grands  ou petits, sur la base de l'égalité, un amendement qui ne soit pas imposé par des Etats puissants mais accepté par  tous les Etats membres de l'UNESCO.
(15.3) Nous nous félicitons aussi de la proposition tendant à ce que le Conseil exécutif étudie lors de ses  prochaines sessions la création d'un "forum de réflexion" de l'UNESCO, étant entendu qu'il s'agirait d'un forum  ouvert à tous, d'une instance dynamique et en constant renouvellement, représentative de tous les intellectuels, et  que chacune de ses sessions soit consacrée à tenter d'éclairer et de résoudre un problème spécifique d'intérêt  universel.
(15.4) Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, qui se distingue par sa  concentration et ses objectifs, recueille tout notre assentiment, car il est conforme aux recommandations des  conférences générales passées. Nous approuvons en particulier le programme "Science et technologie pour le  développement", qui vise à lutter contre le retard dont pâtissent tous les pays les moins avancés et à combler le  profond fossé qui sépare le Nord du Sud, situation qui a été bien décrite dans le récent rapport de la Commission  Sud. Nous sommes à cet égard entièrement d'accord avec le Président Mitterrand pour estimer qu'il ne saurait y  avoir de démocratie sans développement.
(15.5) Monsieur le Président, les problèmes de l'environnement nous préoccupent tous. Aussi attendons-nous  avec beaucoup d'espoir la Conférence qui doit se tenir au Brésil et qui, il faut l'espérer, ouvrira une ère nouvelle  de coopération pour la solution des problèmes mondiaux et régionaux.
(15.6) Nous sommes d'autant plus conscients, Monsieur le Président, de l'importance de la culture que nous  somunes un pays caractérisé par sa diversité culturelle. Nous affirmons que la mission de l'UNESCO consiste non  seulement à promouvoir la liberté de l'échange d'opinions mais aussi à garantir l'équilibre et l'impartialité de la  diffusion de ces opinions. Or cette mission est contrariée en Palestine occupée et à Jérusalem, où la dignité de  l'homme est bafouée par le déni des droits les plus élémentaires, y compris celui qu'ont les enfants de poursuivre  leurs études, avec pour résultat un peuple contraint à l'errance, dont l'identité est délibérément effacée, au point  que la pierre est devenue son identité, son fusil et même son cahier de classe.
(15.7) L'UNESCO a, nous le savons, une mission morale et un grand rôle à jouer dans le domaine de la  coopération internationale, et elle s'acquitte de ce rôle en collaboration avec les autres institutions du système des
266   Nations Unies. Ii existe également une interaction positive entre les Etats membres et l'Organisation pour  raffermir les liens intellectuels et culturels, le premier axe de cette interaction étant le suivi des résolutions et  recommandations de la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous. Dans le cadre de cette interaction, le  Soudan a organisé en septembre 1990 une conférence nationale sur les politiques de l'éducation, qui a eu pour  résultat une nouvelle révolution dans ce domaine. Outre qu'elle a pour buts de généraliser l'enseignement de base,  de donner des bases solides aux programmes et d'assurer une formation véritable des enseignants, cette révolution  vise plus particulièrement à améliorer la condition sociale de la femme et à réduire l'écart entre la scolarisation  des filles et des garçons, jusqu'à le faire disparaître dans le primaire. Une attention particulière est accordée aux  programmes en faveur des femmes ayant une activité productive dans les zones rurales, programmes où la  formation est liée aux industries et à l'artisanat ainsi qu'à la campagne d'alphabétisation menée dans toutes les  régions du pays, qui rencontre un accueil remarquablement enthousiaste chez les femmes.
(15.8) Dans le cadre de ses plans, et grâce au concours de l'UNESCO, mon pays s'emploiera à tarir les sources  de l'analphabétisme au moyen de ces nouveaux programmes. Des dispositions sont prises pour organiser une  conférence sur la campagne générale d'alphabétisation, campagne dont le plan quinquennal prévoit  l'alphabétisation de 5,5 millions de personnes dans la tranche d'âge 10-45 ans d'ici à 1995. Nous voudrions aussi  signaler les grands efforts que nous avons faits dans le domaine de l'enseignement supérieur, les effectifs des  établissements universitaires étant passés de 5.000 à 10.000 en 1990 à 20.000 cette année. En outre, cing  nouvelles universités, réparties sur l'ensemble du territoire soudanais, ont été créées. Nous voudrions à cet égard  saluer le programme de l'UNESCO relatif à la rationalisation et au développement de l'enseignement supérieur, et  à réaffirmer notre volonté de coopérer au jumelage de nos universités avec celles d'autres pays. Nous espérons  que l'Organisation envisagera la création de chaires UNESCO. De par notre situation géographique et historique,  nos universités sont tout à fait disposées à accueillir de telles chaires.
(15.9) Nous saisissons cette occasion pour appeler l'attention sur un problème nouveau qui préoccupe au plus  haut point aujourd'hui le Soudan, à savoir celui de l'éducation des réfugiés. Assumant pleinement les  responsabilités qui découlent de sa situation géographique et de son sens du devoir moral, le Soudan accueille un  nombre considérable de réfugiés et il compte que te monde libre, qui est attaché à toutes les valeurs nobles, ne  manquera pas de se pencher sur l'ampleur de ce problème ct d'accroître son assistance à cette catégorie d'êtres  humains.
(15.10) Monsieur le Président, nous savons que les quelques minutes dont nous disposons ne permeitent pas  d'aborder, ne serait-ce que brièvement, toutes les questions. Étant donné que nous disposcrons de plus de temps  en commissions, je terminerai mon intervention en vous félicitant, Monsieur le Président, vous qui faites honneur  pa  à l'Afrique, ce continent auquel l'UNESCO accorde une place privilégiée. Cela nous incite à soutenir  l'Organisation et ses programmes et à en attendre les effets les plus bénéfiques. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Sudan, and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Abdullah Al Bazaz,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Iraq.  (alo) 5151 saad) WY,  mand) Vi) plas) le Cagall pal Ge oS opel OÙ ast 1 Guat odl st pa J) aa Jd A pus  of Lladl a yl LS Dal yay Laka pled] 53300 Vin 5935 3500) a pSalady S58 Ge saad] si LS pui  Oly oaabe Su mand wud] plail Lous éuluis Lalsladls o550e ly Suns pdt LAN Glad) Tuilieas Ge quel  dass 5 ice pans Glad) als aad) padall a Gaal) Silly GAME La 555 Ge pai Saws JL L150  ssa] Cols Ge Baby sa LS palin) puis A Ssaiati LL Why Llsally gels y dl pgsdd ossi,  © 505 gi all AUS pall Jaa SUIS A dls Gas y cold) Tin Glass glee) db gids] Gala  Goad! of od Sassy LOIS ISSN bas Ge Sl laalad) wld Joa! pana AU Lulu ou pe lly Si sul!  Sed pall ly aad ag pad SI bull Gly As dial] Tia sladiwl y (sin il jlaally Jhall ga 5a0 43  (gall a Jais of sie) LS  LAUS 9a3 40 oud bush La 3,0 Jind] IL gg dam Ge eps oF pal will spzs WV,  (squall 3 Sia, SS galt (stadia VIA NE fa  i Lalit aps LS Thi päaçail pas Glals Ge pul A (GS SV pms pled] spn sold sad] NN
267   vds he ples) iy ddladl sian 5505 Lb Jad! Oa JE sue of Sualy Us ol isl saad) Cia pa Lats  Jas dlls CHI p55 lsh nls JI seas Gat pled i pdadly Lo pal galas pa GABLES Tiny Ga  cols 43 dsl pall cnlS 1b Jalid! lead) Tabi fa UNS y LIS pad! Ge Le sie Jaca V0 5 AI Gilat  AI le Soda) (ia ls (Js aad alas) ol pui G 585 odes Slate JUL dian le Gay il  sa Gi Ga Yau be J pd Sha say ile (ashe Shia JUS Ce Gan paged subs aly add Ge m3 4G  AS Os II 5e Yo LadAY Lula]!  (Lose 8200) Lao ga] AGL clad asl Sled A Glad) a Liga UM Lure SAN cays sil \Wv,é  Oba) peas all BOIS opal y AMI Lans Il Jil] Jia gum pal SM wlaadly SYŸI,  Sad CUS Huis Las plan?) Lily Casi Tol ju) ela shad) Ce La sd y Lao gl I al ls¥) C58 (ania  pra HUY Galan 3 baal Jones Landed) lue Mi Glad La JI GilaYl Jia Saal SY 53 Haale Vo.  gad  CLS) pal (gual) Goad) Lani iy GIS Talal lal, Jad Ai golali¥) jlaall of LS NV,  sla saad! 1531 LS Lal dads Tony sll wl) sands Talal selina plum a pads (EI atidlly ual 5 ul)  Lu lis Giada Gload) Ladle sani aj gu03 (Sa Ÿ Lia Lung 138 aay] 135 duiad! i Un vu II Lia oS]  Là JUIN a Je dG pd laa GT SI Jasdasy Ligne aa) AST Ge das pala la Tals y Lily ld cla  be Sad) po isa lg Ugo Lid Ge Ulis La pal dia 3 ay Td gal) Lae pb usd uals lel pal ue Las  Crag lay (gaa) a IP old LAINE LEA JJ) ae silo lus Lay ad lis f aaa Load ol bia  odd! lash le Gagsill lanl pid Gosia) puni LI Li pue pus J) AG goss opt pull Takis Lian  Lga¥l als Louis Cl granny Bla NS ould) JULY ase ply ail Ugilall Lyall Lya¥ly Li2Yl,  la piles y lady load] JUL Gilead) 1) ages] SY Sill Jin le gugay Lash pail aly Li2Y,  Sold) ail) Chinas ola Ga ap ATV SF Gadd! ST Ronan al gidl Ga sl gas jl 5 ju Ge pr Gala 3a  Lassi Ally AGIT Sis Liane Glas dal ga Lule candy al GS Np Al) Sa Ed alld) Silas le  lila pale p 5 pee Lal J) TU adn Sully MAL S131 Gus siasdd prea] Las If Ja SOUS Laisa  Tad paula he LILAS Gloadl Le orm yall HA BUS jlaally Shall Laally LoladY! ibgadl oe  Lis GK lta ls Gauss a  SoH! pay A Cag Blladly Jaadl le Si sous (si pa Lily csasall Pod! pla) fe caisall JA, WY,
3235s Ligue I Jlaliwly Las pod ly Sail) IS Line Ja le 55 halls Jladd] ga Tiadadly Tua pd 4353]  hark ppelgs gil oh ial lial shill oly iadall hl yall skill 1 gage gi) KEL pall
533 Unbawy lus Ÿl ska phyñal (1 ais (GIE phy 51359) BoaIl eat (gram V5 VALGAU lab  ob plais Ÿ saly asd pb Ji eld JS 51 Ney 2555 A Ulead] ly Toasted | Laan] Lyon ls  Ailsa GIS  or ali (5 alga 301s WALES pad, 359 mally des oad gad) Lue US 5 SG Gall ploaa¥l gly WV,V  ld Faas Saal wa Fes Jedd) GG ands by GAIN Gala Glad] Gada pay JS, Jul)  lil Ga AIT Goda olin Up) lA rad) (sr idly polally ESS GAROU Ggay (a JS Jud  sata Al Dapuall UM pa) Tags Utd Yoo dl pa daladll a GET sla) as LS 0 Lud] JAN  le elanedly Glad) uass Ualgl Ula p0050 LIK wba, Lad pps JS Shadly 3555 Lan oad]  LAST) pad, oly eal] aay 3250 Sle Jaally LAS IIS 45555 A Jauilly ual, JdGaly Golo  nd LAS dll A Usibll Gada Ge 150 WEY GMA a Unidad) Goda plomal Lal an oF cea Taal ya 3¥  lian Li LuiŸl 5155 ga lesa JS 3) sil I  gals) Gaga pa, 8155300 Blea Glas Sle jo all  duaill Le POI slid) yg paiad) savais La unie I JIK&T GIS lati Jaad) olga J) Land gous Lisl  old] Tia a Tada ay 3,0 pe JA SIM Le LAS Class (gated)
268   AE sail 5 sad) Taaaa GUT pad J seas Jl32 V5 OS Glad oF ped Il snd) Ll aly WY, A  Shad! a LI Le 3a) AS Lal) SAS aslaadd Ge Olay gay Jol] padall GRE US pe ps Sally aladly  Ladida ls pa, LAS Jia J) Gla ad Slidtaeay ala welldy dusaall SLAM da a 0 Leu s  Law 5 capipl) AIS ells le lisant aby pled) Sa3ll plas! a Lay gus plead SSI paaiady Sols Tad sug  Ol held Hlsall le pa pal y LolanVl caddy aod; (550 ots le ads Al Ga Gay) Ladall Clas  Gall He gui pS Bp Jaded S11 HLA Laassl) wll peal) pe G230SS Toland) lanl sia  aad] ass (Goad) sam WL Tosa) Ladd] Coal Blas Gauss Le 188) slaaly Las dl  uot Lleol asin oF Judy dan! slp glia Ge JS peut Gad Tilly UBLII lelesyl  Lai WSS Ljphlal ay Basel Leki yaaŸ) Lush i pates paws of Sa Ÿ S11 go,
3 oh lal Liles 3 SM of a Onda Aad Lily Labi Teaagdly Leg Sad) 35001 Ga pd IL Salad  Saal pally sess dl lila lo alas IE EI y plié s kag] GAIN 5 Gall Ul sad)  ol Jos! gaat oF ge gas pled) Saall sad) CAIN HUET La 003 pe pneus ail Gus pl) gana 1nd, WY,  SalI 3 can aban F gage £5 soa Ve BS aid gd Goad) oa (wid) oad) IT mals ys peas  S13 Lops plad) SGA Gi pus Ga cin YG paaead] Sud Ge OF od 55 FSU Lewladly ci al)  ole Bialy Llal ce AIF Lapll ue goa pled! MI ja le a gadis U gs le Jala oF avn sud Lai à  Oaladdly lsall slea¥ LG, Liu HF sla; lall ia Jha 55 poe Al seas Gad, GUI lia 4 Galas  vais Laat Lia lilly & 53pm Gal) load] JT JI SAIS le suid] gals pr pa gas of Jal LS, dou!  çà DA Load) ua saad SLAM AABU pladl oaa¥l Jhes adi Lal Le shy Shall aloud y 131s ofall  JS ge sado À
(171) M. AL BAZAZ (Irak) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous féliciter chaleureusement de votre élection à cette  fonction éminente ; je suis convaincu que vous saurez diriger avec sagesse et tact les travaux de cette Conférence  générale. Je voudrais commencer par exprimer le soutien de l'Trak à l'UNESCO et sa fierté des réalisations qu'elle  accomplit sous la conduite de son Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor. Nous sommes fiers de l'UNESCO en  raison du rôle moral et intellectuel éminent qu'elle joue au sein de la communauté internationale. La délégation  irakienne accueille avec satisfaction et appuie le Projet de programme et de budget et les priorités qu'il énonce, et  elle apprécie les efforts faits par le Conseil exécutif pour élaborer ses recommandations à ce sujet. Nous  partageons les inquiétudes suscitées par la situation financière difficile que connaît l'UNESCO, situation  essentiellement imputable au retard mis par certains États dont la quote-part est élevée à verser leurs  contributions. Si l'Irak pouvait se libérer du blocus économique et de nouveau disposer librement de ses avoirs  gelés, il serait en mesure d'aider généreusement l'UNESCO), comme il avait coutume de le faire dans le passé.
(17.2) La délégation irakienne accueille favorablement le projet japonais révisé, l'idée de créer un groupe  d'experts des questions financières auprès du Conseil exécutif de l'UNESCO et l'idée d'un forum de réflexion.
(17.3) Monsieur le Président, le monde connaît de grandes transformations qui amènent de nombreux pays sur  la voie de la démocratie, et l'on assiste à une détente des relations entre l'Est et l'Ouest. Nous nous félicitons  naturellement de ces transformations, surtout si elles favorisent le bien-être de l'humanité. Nous constatons  néanmoins, à notre grand regret, qu'un Etat, ou un petit nombre d'Etats détermine seul le sort de la planète et  domine le Conseil de sécurité, en contradiction avec les principes de liberté et de paix dans le monde. Nous  appelons à soutenir les mesures de désarmement et demandons que le Moyen-Orient devienne une zone  totalement démilitarisée et exemple d'armes de destruction massive. La guerre froide a certes entraîné son lot de  tragédies, notamment celle de la Palestine et la guerre du Viet Nam, mais la domination planétaire d'une seule  grande puissance a entraîné la destruction d'un pays tout entier, dont le peuple est affamé par suite de l'embargo  qui lui est imposé, un embargo que ne peut justifier aucun argument politique, moral ou juridique.
(17.4) Les institutions éducatives irakiennes ont subi des dégâts considérables touchant les bâtiments scolaires
(4.000 écoles), les équipements et matériels pédagogiques, les moyens de transport utilisés par les élèves et les  enseignants, le mobilier scolaire (un million de banes de classe), les services administratifs scolaires et autres  moyens nécessaires à l'enseignement tels que les livres ou les moyens audiovisuels. Ces dégâts sont estimés à
650 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis, montant auquel il faut ajouter les destructions et pillages subis par les  institutions scientifiques et les sites culturels et archéologiques.
(17.5) En outre, le blocus économique est appliqué à tous les équipements scolaires, et en premier lieu au  papier nécessaire a la fabrication des manuels scolaires et au bois utilisé pour fabriquer les bancs et les tableaux.  II porte aussi sur toutes les fournitures, simples ou complexes. Cela a créé une situation dont il est difficile  d'imaginer la difficulté. Le nombre des élèves et étudiants irakiens avoisine les cinq millions, et répondre à leurs  besoins est une tâche extrêmement difficile et complexe ; cette situation, sans précédent dans le monde, est due à  des mesures qui se couvrent du manteau de la légitimité internationale mais qui sont en réalité l'expression de la  volonté d'un seul Etat de contrôler les capacités de notre peuple et le sort de nos générations futures. Nous avons  adressé plusieurs appels aux organisations internationales à vocation éducative et humanitaire, dont l'UNESCO,  afin qu'elles joignent leur voix à celle de tous les hommes de bonne volonté pour demander la levée de l'embargo  sur le matériel scolaire, la nourriture et les médicaments nécessaires aux enfants. À ce jour, 170.000 enfants sont  morts faute de médicaments et de nourriture. Je profite de la tribune qui m'est offerte aujourd'hui pour à nouveau  réclamer l'équité en faveur des enfants et des jeunes de l'Irak et demander qu'ils soient protégés des dommages  graves qu'ils ont subis et continuent de subir sur les plans aussi bien physique que psychologique et éducatif par  suite de l'arbitraire des forces qui président aux destinées du monde et vont jusqu'à violer les accords relatifs à la  protection des moyens de développer l'enseignement qu'elles ont elles-mêmes signés, le dernier en date étant celui  de la Conférence mondiale sur l'éducation pour tous tenue en Thaïlande en mars 1990. Je signale à cette occasion  que nous allons distribuer aux délégations un dossier sur les répercussions humanitaires et sanitaires de la  véritable catastrophe que constituent l'embargo et du blocus injustement imposés à l'Irak et à ses 18 millions  d'habitants.
(17.6) I n'est question aujourd'hui que du nouvel ordre international, et nous sommes pour notre part  favorables à tout système nouveau qui serait fondé sur la justice et l'égalité et qui viserait à combler le fossé  technologique et scientifique entre le Nord et le Sud et à résoudre les problèmes de la pauvreté et de  l'endettement, à éliminer le racisme et à renforcer le dialogue d'égal à égal conduisant à un vrai développement  démocratique. Or, pour mériter cette qualification, le développement doit tenir compte de la situation de chaque  pays et non être dicté par la force et le brigandage. Il doit s'appuyer sur le respect des droits de l'homme, le règne  du droit, le pluralisme de la vie politique et de l'information et la répartition équitable des richesses, car ces  éléments convergent et forment un tout indivisible.
(17.7) Le vrai respect du droit international et de la légitimité internationale implique nécessairement le refus  des approches sélectives et du principe "deux poids deux mesures” dans les relations entre Etats, dans la manière  d'aborder les problèmes, dans la défense des droits de l'homme et des droits des peuples et dans l'interprétation du  droit international et de la Charte des Nations Unies. Cela suppose donc avant tout l'application intégrale,  rigoureuse et immédiate de toutes les résolutions internationales relatives aux droits du peuple palestinien et à  l'occupation israélienne, comme cela suppose que l'on en finisse avec l'hypocrisie entourant les 200 bombes  atomiques israéliennes pointées vers les Arabes pendant que Washington invente chaque jour de nouvelles  histoires et des prétextes fallacieux pour continuer à détruire l'Irak, à violer sa souveraineté, à occuper ses  territoires, à s'ingérer dans ses affaires intérieures et à essayer de le démembrer. Le refus de l'approche sélective  et du double langage signifie aussi nécessairement que le respect des droits de l'enfant en Irak fait partie  intégrante du respect des droits de l'enfant dans le monde et que la protection et la sauvegarde du patrimoine  historique millénaire de la Mésopotamie fait partie intégrante de la protection et de la sauvegarde du patrimoine  de l'humanité tout entière. Nous appelons aussi à poursuivre l'action visant à éliminer toutes les formes de  racisme et de discrimination raciale et à abolir l'apartheid, et nous proclamons notre entière solidarité avec le  continent africain à ce sujet.
(17.8) Monsieur le Président, l'Irak n'a jamais cessé de plaider pour l'ouverture de nouvelles perspectives de  dialogue dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la culture, de la science et de la pensée avec l'ensemble de la  communauté internationale, et il est pleinement disposé, aujourd'hui comme demain, à participer en toute bonne  foi, sans complexe ni susceptibilité, à l'action commune dans ces domaines vitaux. Nous sommes venus ici avec  un esprit ouvert et la volonté réelle de contribuer au succès de la Conférence générale. Nous avons été  particulièrement encouragés à cet égard par les interventions des différentes délégations, en particulier lors de la  séance d'ouverture, qui ont été d'une haute tenue intellectuelle et ont reflété un esprit positif et une volonté de  dialogue. Cette atmosphère positive est sans nul doute incompatible avec les imprécations de ceux qui exploitent  cette digne tribune pour donner libre cours à leurs complexes morbides, ressasser tout ce que diffuse l'arsenal de  la guerre psychologique américaine et israélienne contre l'Irak et se faire l'écho d'affabulations et d'allégations  mensongères, Nous exhortons tous les égarés, avant qu'il ne soit trop tard, à se reprendre et à tirer les leçons de  l'histoire, qui montre que l'arogance du nouvel empire ne saurait perdurer, car il est rongé par des contradictions  aiguës, malgré sa puissance militaire et son hégémonie politique. Nous sommes convaincus que la victoire  appartiendra au bout du compte aux valeurs de justice, de vérité, de dignité nationale et aux objectifs de concorde  et de paix que proclament l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO et la Charte des Nations Unies.
(17.9) Monsieur le Président, le Directeur général a indiqué hier à deux reprises que l'Irak est l'un des pays qui  soutiennent le Programme du golfe arabe (AGFUND). Aussi aurions-nous souhaité que les questions purement  politiques ne soient pas abordées dans le discours prononcé à cette occasion. Nous jugeons inadmissible qu'un  invité de la Conférence générale, surtout lorsqu'il ne s'agit pas d'un représentant officiel, attaque un Etat membre  du haut de cette tribune, sortant ainsi du rôle qui devait être le sien et pour lequel il a été invité, avec notre
270   accord, dans cette enceinte. Nous demandons que des pratiques aussi regrettables ne se reproduisent pas car elles  vont à l'encontre de l'atmosphère de dialogue et de coopération internationale. Notre espoir était que l'AGFUND  se pencherait sur la situation des enfants irakiens qui meurent par centaines quotidiennement faute de  médicaments, de nourriture et de produits essentiels pour la survie, situation sur laquelle le représentant du  Secrétaire général de l'ONU, le prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, a attiré l'attention dans le rapport que l'on sait. Je  vous remercie.
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Iraq, and I now call on Ms Fausta Morganti, Minister of National  Education and Culture and head of the delegation of San Marino.
19.1 Mme MORGANTI (Saint-Marin) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président, de m'avoir donné la parole et je désire tout d'abord m'associer aux orateurs qui  m'ont précédée pour vous féliciter, au nom de la délégation de Saint-Marin, pour votre élection à la présidence  de cette assemblée. Je désire également remercier le Directeur général et le Secrétariat pour la préparation de  cette Conférence. Je voudrais aussi souhaiter la bienvenue dans la famille de l'UNESCO aux nouveaux Etats  membres : la Lituanie, l'Estonie, la Lettonie et Tuvalu.
19.2 Cette vingt-sixième session revêt une importance toute particulière non seulement en raison des projets  et des décisions que nous sommes appelés à adopter, mais surtout en raison des événements politiques auxquels  nous assistons. Je ne vais pas les mentionner puisque nous les connaissons tous très bien, même s'ils ne  semblent pas toucher nos limites géographiques. L'avènement de la paix générale dont nous avions entrevu  l'espoir est, une fois de plus, retardé par les conflits actuels, qui ne trouvent pas de solution adéquate. C'est  pourquoi nous voulons apporter notre message de solidarité à tous ces pays où la guerre a causé des déchirures  et des blessures inguérissables au mépris de tout droit à une vie digne de ce nom.
19,3 Tous les efforts de recherche et de proposition, faits au sein des organisations nées dès le lendemain de  la guerre grâce à la volonté des Etats et des nations, afin de substituer à la guerre le dialogue et la négociation  pacifique, semblent avoir échoué. La revendication d'autonomie des différents groupes qui a remis en cause le  modèle d'Etat-nation nous appelle à une révision radicale de l'interprétation historique de notre époque  contemporaine. Le scénario qui constituait la base du sentiment de légitimité des Etats modernes, qui en  justifiait et en garantissait l'existence, a complètement changé. Cette explosion des différentes ethnies et des  différents peuples transforme complètement la conception des finalités de l'homme et de la politique. Eile  apporte également une nouvelle notion des ressources, de leur emploi et de l'avenir du monde. Cette explosion  montre à quel point la coexistence de valeurs qu'on avait données pour sûres est incertaine.
194 Voilà pourquoi la volonté de promouvoir les valeurs de la culture prend une force essentielle. L'effort  de compréhension, de respect des identités culturelles devient notre défi. Dans ce contexte, le détachement  progressif du politique et de l'économique, le conflit d'hégémonie entre économie et technologie, l'articulation  possible entre technologie et science, tout cela nous paraît être le cadre au sein duquel nous devons continuer à  créer des moments de réflexion culturelle et de coopération. Or, cette Conférence nous semble être le forum le  plus adéquat où construire ou, du moins, déterminer les bases et les lignes de tendance de nos défis futurs, où  faire la tentative de reconsidérer la politique comme valeur de médiation et de dialogue, comme espace  d'indulgence où les hommes peuvent exprimer leurs diversités et écouter chacun l'opinion de l'autre.
19.5 Des 1dentités culturelles demandent aujourdhui à pouvoir exprimer leurs traditions et leurs modèles de  vie, et revendiquent la fin de l'oppression et de l'étouffement. I! faut une identité culturelle recherchée et  affirmée, afin de créer un rapport humain et constructif avec la science, l'économie et les transformations  technologiques.
196 La Décennie mondiale du développement culturel, proclamée par les Nations Unies, nous semble la  réponse la plus adéquate à la situation actuelle, puisqu'une fois de plus on affirme la primauté de l'homme sur  la réalité et sur la quasi-inéluctabilité des conflits.
19.7 Le processus d'intégration européenne, qui intéresse plus directement notre petit pays, appelle aussi à  la recherche d'une coopération régionale et interrégionale impensable jusqu'en 1989, voire même à la mi-1991.
19.8 Nous avons toujours mis l'accent sur le thème de la différence et des diversités dans nos réflexions sur  l'Europe. Et il ne pouvait en être autrement, compte tenu des caractéristiques de ses peuples et de ses cultures.  Nous avons dû reconnaître l'impasse des utopies d'unification, qui n'ont fait qu'étouffer les aspirations de  liberté, de paix et d'autodétermination.
199 A cela s'ajoute la crise du modèle qui a conditionné notre développement fondé sur l'accumulation et  l'exploitation des ressources, au détriment de la plupart des pays du monde ; au niveau politique, cette crise a  donné lieu aux totalitarismes les plus violents, en provoquant, dans les pays les moins nantis, la naissance de  régimes fondamentalistes, seule alternative à la résignation, à la faim, au manque des moyens les plus  élémentaires de développement. Nous devons donc trouver ensemble des solutions, comme l'ont mis très bien  en évidence les débats de cette Conférence.
19.10 La relation entre pays industrialisés et progrès scientifiques et technologiques nous fait souvent perdre  de vue les motivations profondes qui mènent à la logique de la découverte, élément majeur pour analyser les  processus de l'intuition et de la créativité humaine. À partir de ces données, l'appel à la coopération régionale et  interrégionale est riche en perspectives et peut contribuer réellement à fonder de nouvelles valeurs de  coexistence entre les hommes.
19.11  Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président et Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, puisque l'argument a été  soulevé dans cette assemblée, de dire quelques mots sur les célébrations prévues à l'occasion du cinquième  centenaire, qui seront l'objet de grandes manifestations. Elles pourraient être l'occasion salutaire d'une relecture  critique de la prétendue découverte de l'Amérique, afin de comparer l'optique des occupants des trois caravelles  avec celle des peuples qui les ont vu arriver, et aussi afin de favoriser chez les différents peuples autochtones un  autre processus de grandes découvertes, celles de leur civilisation et de leur histoire biologique, récupérant ainsi  une mémoire niée pour accéder enfin à la "modernité". Une telle opération, essentiellement culturelle, pourrait  livrer les maillons qui manquent à une histoire qui n'a été racontée que par les conquérants et par les  témoignages de ceux qui, à travers les siècles, ont dénoncé courageusement la souffrance des peuples conquis,  sans parler des aspirations des nombreuses populations autochtones qui demandent à l'ONU de déclarer 1992  année de leur libération. C'est ce que ie Directeur général a bien su interpréter quand il a mis en relief  l'interdépendance des cultures et des civilisations concernées par la rencontre entre l'Europe et l'Amérique,  aboutissant ainsi à une véritable symbiose culturelle.
19.12 La délégation de Saint-Marin apportera toute sa contribution aux programmes de l'UNESCO, afin de  promouvoir des formes de coopération qui, en mettant en valeur les diversités, développent des chemins  communs de recherche et d'application dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la recherche et de l'échange  mutuel.
19.13 À cet égard, nous avons pris récemment diverses initiatives, et notamment : le colloque des directeurs  de recherche pour l'enseignement du Conseil de l'Europe ; des symposiums cybernétiques et sciences de  l'homme ; une organisation universitaire qui nous permet un dialogue constant avec des réalités différentes sur  les sujets les plus actuels du débat concernant le progrès, la connaissance et l'histoire de la culture ; enfin, une  étude intensive des langues européennes afin de donner une dimension véritablement active à l'approche et au  débat culturels.
19.14 Par ailleurs, nous allons promouvoir la constitution de facultés des sciences humaines, de la gestion  des ressources et du développement technologique. Dans ce sens, nous sommes prêts à soutenir les projets de  jumelage entre les facultés des sciences humaines et sociales à travers les Etats du Nord et du Sud afin d'aider  au développement global des sociétés Nous appuyons également la constitution d'un Comité  intergouvernemental dans ce domaine.
19.15 Nous avons mis en route un projet de conférence permanente sur l'enseignement et nous avons pris  différentes initiatives visant à la création d'un centre international de coopération multiculturelle, dont nous  avons déjà présenté les lignes générales au cours de sessions précédentes de la Conférence générale.
19.16 Tout en étant conscients de nos limites, nous mettons à la disposition nos structures afin de faire  avancer le dialogue et alimenter l'espoir de paix. Nous comptons sur vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, pour  que notre Organisation, l'UNESCO, comme elle l'a fait jusqu'ici, puisse jouer plemement son rôle  conformément aux objectifs qu'elle s'est donnés d'un développement harmonieux de l'homme et des ressources  de la planète et demeurer une tribune où chacun s'exprime en toute liberté. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of San Marino. I now call on the Hon. Christophoros Christophides,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Cyprus.
21.1 Mr CHRISTOPHIDES (Cyprus):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, on  behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Cyprus, I wish to congratulate you on your election to the presidency  of this Conference. We are certain that under your able leadership we shall deal effectively with all the  important issues that confront the world community today in the spheres of competence of UNESCO. We  would also like to welcome among us the new members of UNESCO: Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Tuvalu.
21.2 In the two years that have elapsed since the previous session of the General Conference, we have  witnessed profound political and social changes. The dramatic developments in Central and Eastern Europe,  culminating in the unification of the German nation, revived our hope for the birth of a new era of democracy,  peace and co-operation. Subsequent tragic events have demonstrated that the efforts for the peaceful settlement  of disputes must not be relaxed if that hope is to be realized. It is two and a half thousand years since  democracy was born in ancient Athens towards the end of the sixth century BC and it is perhaps a good omen  that this anniversary falls during the coming biennium.
21.3 UNESCO has a unique role to play in meeting the three major challenges that face humanity on the  eve of the twenty-first century: peace, development and the environment. My government is happy that the  draft programme and budget before us reflects, as a whole, an effective response to these challenges.
214 1 would now like to turn to some specific issues in our agenda, We are pleased to sce that the struggle  against illiteracy will continue with even greater intensity. The World Conference on Education for All, a  remarkable example of co-operation between States and international bodies, resulted in a commitment by the  international community to combat illiteracy, improve primary education and provide opportunities for the less  privileged. We shall participate actively in the follow-up action as reflected in document 26 C/S. Despite our  well-known and tragic problems since 1974, we have succeeded in providing education not only to the school-  age population but to adults as well. We offer free education for all, both at primary and secondary levels, and  pre-primary education is now available in most areas. Special education is extended to the disadvantaged,  whilst students from poor rural areas, refugees and low-income families are provided with school meals and  free transportation. Although the illiteracy rate in Cyprus is only 4 per cent of the population, special  programmes are conducted to eradicate illiteracy completely.
21.5 We, in Cyprus, have long recognized the importance of technical and vocational education and its  positive contribution to the employment of human resources and to development. We therefore strongly support  the initiative of Germany to strengthen UNESCO's involvement in this field.
21.6 One of the most important developments in the education system of Cyprus 1s the establishment of the  University, the fulfilment of a long-standing aspiration. The University of Cyprus, after the enactment of the  relevant legislation, is now in existence. Its Interim Governing Board, with the participation of a consultant  from UNESCO, and the first members of its staff are working hard to make it possible for students to be  admitted in September 1992.
21.7 At a time when walls of separation have collapsed and the breeze of reconciliation is blowing  elsewhere, Nicosia, the capital of our country, remains the only divided city in the world. The University of  Cyprus will have the essential mission of contributing to the unification of our island. It will be the forum  where all the young people of Cyprus will meet to lay the foundations of a common and more promising future.
21.8 — Another item of special importance to our country is Major Programme Area II (Culture: past, present  and future) and, in particular, the preservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage. My government  makes continuous efforts to conserve the monuments of all cultures and periods without any prejudice or bias.  Unfortunately, however, the cultural heritage in the occupied part of Cyprus 1s still under serious threat, at best  neglected and abandoned, more often looted or deliberately destroyed. The intention appears to be to eliminate  important features of the history and culture of Cyprus, the main victims being Byzantine churches,  monasteries and works of art. The most recent example is the announcement that Saint Barnabas Church and  Monastery, the burial place of the founder of the Church of Cyprus and therefore deeply venerated by the  people of Cyprus, is being converted from a place of worship to other uses. It is for this reason that we reiterate
273   our wish that the UNESCO mission, provided for in all the biennial programmes since 1976, to report on the  condition of these monuments and to contribute to their safeguarding, will finally materialize.
21.9 One positive development deserves to be mentioned: the unique early Byzantine Kanakaria mosaics  that had been looted from a church in the occupied area and offered for sale in the United States have finally  been returned to their rightful owner, the Church of Cyprus, after a series of favourable decisions by United  States Courts. We draw this happy outcome to UNESCO's attention as a precedent which will reinforce its  efforts for the prevention of illicit traffic in cultural treasures.
21.10 Finally, a word about the ongoing process of reform of the Organization. Since the success of the  programmes is dependent on the effective performance of the various organs of UNESCO, we welcome all  efforts to improve efficiency. Proposals, studies and constructive dialogue have already resulted in significant  progress. The latest proposals for reform of the Executive Board, initiated by Japan and refined through a wide  and fruitful exchange of ideas, constitute an important further step. The success of the entire reform enterprise  will determine the future of our Organization.
21.11 Mr President, this session of the General Conference takes place at a time when the role of the United  Nations in world affairs is greatly enhanced. As an essential component of the United Nations system,  UNESCO cannot but be called upon to play an even more important part than in the past in its various fields of  competence. It is therefore all the more necessary for our Organization to be ready to deal effectively with the  objectives entrusted to it by its Constitution. Thank you, Mr. President.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Cyprus and I now give the floor to H.E. Mr Olafur Einarsson,  Minister of Education and Culture and head of the delegation of Iceland.
23.1 Mr EINARSSON (Iceland):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all, Mr President, to express my  congratulations on your election to the high office of President of the General Conference. I wish you every  success and pledge the sincere support of my delegation.
23.2 Mr President, since the last General Conference, great events have occurred in Europe. The process of  democratization and economic reform in Central and Eastern Europe is a demanding challenge to our  Organization, but this process of change in our immediate political environment is still clouded with problems  arising from a number of factors which are not within the realm of UNESCO.
23.3 The United Nations as a whole and our Organization in particular are facing some very demanding  challenges. In this connection I should like to quote what the Icelandic Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his  closing remarks in the general debate at the forty-sixth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations  on 23 September: 'I believe it is not overly "Eurocentric" to state that recent events in Europe have been of  global political and economic importance. But more than this, they demonstrate to the whole world that the  human spirit is indomitable. The triumph of democracy, which in itself entails respect for human rights,  constitutes a clear message to the oppressed everywhere, that theirs’ is not a hopeless cause since even the  mightiest totalitarian means of oppression did not suffice to quell, subdue or restrain dissent or opposition. In  the words of that great stubborn humanist, President Landsbergis of Lithuania: "The independence and  inherent dignity of the human spirit shall prevail”.
23.4 It is a special pleasure for me to welcome the three Baitic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as new  members of UNESCO. I wish them well in their co-operation with the ever-growing family of independent  democratic nations.
23.5 — The purpose of UNESCO, defined some 46 years ago in its Constitution as being ‘to contribute to  peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture’, is as  important today as it was almost half a century ago.
23.6 Iceland became a Member State of UNESCO in 1964. For a small nation whose national identity is  based very much on its history, literary heritage and language, it is important to be a part of the cultural  universe, both as a receiver but not least as a donor. We appreciate the Organization's assistance to several of  our cultural and educational projects.
23.7 Mr President, I shall now refer to some important features of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1992-1993, which is before this session of the General Conference for examination and decision.
238 In the field of education, my government welcomes the emphasis given to education for alt and to  literacy. Unfortunately, we still face the gigantic world problem of illiteracy. It is clearly within the realm of  UNESCO to tackle this problem and provide leadership on our path to a world where everyone is enabled to  realize his or her potential.
23.9 In the field of sciences, Iceland would like to stress the importance of activities concerning protection  of our environment. Since the last General Conference a ministry of the environment has been established in  Iceland. We Icelanders are, as a fishing nation, very concerned about the state of the ocean, but we also  acknowledge the necessity to devote great efforts to the fight against atmospheric pollution.
23.10 Next year, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development will convene in Brazil.  The Government of Iceland feels that the Conference should lay down a realistic plan for actions concerning  the relationship between the environment and the economy as well as education and research. Educational  matters at all levels are issues within UNESCO's programmes that we believe should be given special attention  at the Rio Conference.
23.11 Iceland sets great store by the cultural co-operation forum that UNESCO provides. The heart of  Icelandic culture is to be found in its language and its history. These two elements create our cultural heritage,  and are channels for the ideas, values and experience that make us a nation. They nourish our creativity and  give us our national identity. The Icelandic literature created in the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth centuries  had enormous influence on the development of literature in Europe and, for that matter, on the global cultural  heritage. We would be delighted to make our literary heritage more accessible to others.
23.12 This autumn we are commemorating the seven hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary of the death of Snorri  Sturluson, one of the most famous and respected signbearers of early Icelandic literature. Snorri Sturluson was  both an author and a historian; excellent translations of one of his most distinguished writings, Edda, the main  source of information on Nordic mythology, were recently published in English and French.
23.13 To commemorate this milestone, the Icelandic Government has decided to establish a literary fund  named after Snorri Sturluson that will enable foreign writers, translators and scholars to come to Iceland and  spend time acquainting themselves with Icelandic culture, both ancient and contemporary. We are interested in  exploring whether it would be reasonable or opportune for us to seek UNESCO's assistance in introducing these  grants in Member States.
23.14 Finally, a few comments on UNESCO's communication programme, ‘Communication in the service of  humanity’, the programme that has caused a great deal of controversy in our Organization. UNESCO has an  important role to play in promoting the free flow of information, knowledge and ideas and in supporting full  respect for the freedom of the press. | emphasize the word ‘free’ here, because UNESCO must never allow it to  happen that the Organization is used to hinder the free flow of information. It must never become a vehicle for  oppression.
23.15 Mr President, the Icelandic Government wishes all success to the efforts to strengthen UNESCO's role  as a vehicle for world co-operation in education, science and culture and to mobilize our resources to serve  those who mostly need our Organization. Thank you.
24. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Iceland, and I now call on H.E. Mr Amanya Mushega, Mimster of  Education and Sports and head of the delegation of Uganda.
25.1 Mr MUSHEGA (Uganda):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be as brief as possible. My delegation congratulates  you on your deserved election to the high office of President of the General Conference. Allow me also to pay  tribute to H.E. Mr Anwar Ibrahim, your immediate predecessor, for having conducted the affairs of the twenty-  fifth session of the General Conference with decorum and distinction,
25.2 My country was honoured by the visit of the Director-General in March this year during which  enriching discussions were held on, among other things, strengthening UNESCO through achieving  universality and on collaboration between Uganda and the Organization. Let me use this opportunity to call  upon the Director-General and all Member States to intensify their efforts to persuade those who left UNESCO  to return to the fold and also to speedily admit Palestine, which has a long history and a rich culture.
25.3 Mr President and distinguished delegates, the mandate of our Organization is to contribute to peace  and security through collaboration in its ficlds of competence. Since we last met here at the twenty-fifth session,  many global events have taken place in international relations, and of particular interest to us are those in our  region. Namibia has attained independence, apartheid is being shaken and positive steps to restore peace in  Angola and Mozambique are being taken. My delegation welcomes these and other momentous and historic  changes. As a result of these changes, some people are talking about a ‘new world order’. It is pertinent to pause  and think about what this new world order means for Africa in particular and for developing countries at large.
25.4 While on the whole we welcome the idea we should move with caution and in measured steps. Allow  me to recall that major shifts in international relations have, more often than not, left Africa marginalized,  weakened, divided and in bad shape. In the late eighteenth century, when Europe was affirming and celebrating  the principles of liberty, fraternity and equality, in Africa the trade in human beings intensified. Again, while it  was being proclaimed in North America that 'All men are created equal ... with certain inalienable rights’ this  principle was not to apply to African peoples. In the first half of the century, Africans were called upon to shed  their blood to help Europe resist foreign domination and Fascism. However, when the Second World War  ended, Africans discovered to their disbelief, that freedom from foreign domination was, to some, not theirs by  right. They then had to begin their own struggles to end colonialism. If the new world order is to bring some  hope and have meaning, it must address the African condition.
25.5 — Mr President, Africa is today still the most backward continent on earth. The average school  enrolment is 45 per cent, the literacy rate is 49 per cent for males and a mere 28 per cent for females, the infant  mortality rate is 120 per 1,000 live births; the total debt burden of sub-Saharan Africa as a ratio of total foreign  exchange earnings is a staggering 353.2 per cent and while humanity has the technology to conquer space, visit  other planets and return to earth, poverty, hunger, famine and drought continue to plague the African  continent. The plight of Africa is a tragedy for all of humanity. What solution does the new world order hold  for this bleak situation?
256 Now that the world is no longer preoccupied with the East-West conflict, old problems that had long  been submerged by the Cold War are surfacing and are demanding urgent attention. Could this not be the  moment of hope for the African continent to address its real problems? Even if during the Cold War there were  people and organizations in Africa who refused to be dragged into this matter, allow me to explain, using  President Yoweri Museveni's words during his address to the United Nations General Assembly in 1987, how  Africa's capacity to conceive and define its problems has hitherto been stunted, and distorted: "There is a lot of  distortion concerning the situation in Africa... The question is often raised: arc we pro-West or are we pro-  East? In my view, this type of labelling is an insult to the African people. It presupposes that the Africans have  no legitimate interests of their own and their only role is to support the interests of others... This attitude is  erroneous, misleading and simply unfortunate... Even the simplest form of animals, such as amoeba, hydra or  earthworms know their interests... They know how to get food for their survival and they run away from danger  when they see it. Why should Africans not know what is good for them? Why must we only know what 1s good  for us through the lenses of others?" Africans partly through their own fault have been pawns in other people's  conflicts,
25.7 Mr President and distinguished delegates, the challenge of the present moment is, on the one hand, to  conceive and define the way ahead and, on the other, to find the will to move in that direction. All this calls for  new thinking on the part of decision-makers and intellectuals. UNESCO, as an intellectual organization and  the conscience of the world, is ever more relevant as we take up this challenge.
25.8 Africa needs a new development paradigm which takes into account the diversity of cultures and  religions. Gone are the days, thank God, when development was synonymous with economic growth and based  on one universal prescription. In my country we conceive democracy as an essential component of development.  In our view, meaningful development is not possible without morality and justice. In his opening address the  Director-General mentioned the need for a 'moral contract’. President Mitterrand of France remarked in his  opening address that democracy cannot be built on poverty, misery and injustice and that UNESCO should
276   provide therein for humanity. We totally agree with this fresh thinking and believe that this should be the  intellectual plane from which global action should spring.
25.9 We have affirmed the reflective role of UNESCO, but the mandate of UNESCO goes beyond reflection.  In a world where the great majority live in abject poverty, are illiterate and suffer, due to ignorance, from  preventable diseases, in a world where the majority have very low scientific, technological and managerial  capability, UNESCO has to match reflection with action. Human problems are diverse, but the human being 1s  one whole and cannot be dissociated. That is why we urge UNESCO and Member States to continue exploring  ways of acting in concert with other sister agencies of the United Nations system.
25.10 Mr President, allow me to make some comments on the reform process within UNESCO. My  delegation welcomes efforts towards making this Organization more effective and responsive to the needs of  Member States. To this end, my government will continue to participate actively in discussions aimed at  reforming the functioning of the Secretariat, the Executive Board and UNESCO as a whole. We must insist,  however, that such reforms should ensure the full and equitable participation of Member States in the decision-  making process and efficient functioning of the Organization.
25.11 Mr Pres: at, just a few words on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993. We are impressed  by the concentration of the programme on a few realistic objectives. There is, in gencral, a better ordering of  priorities, although we should have liked to see more emphasis on maintenance and on technical and  engineering education in the science programme. We hope that the education for all plan started at Jomtien will  continue and bear fruit and that the Decade for Cultural Development will achieve the desired goals.
25.12 In conclusion, Mr President, we wish to express our approval of document 26 C/5 and to wish the  Director-General success in the implementation of the programme. Our detailed comments on the document  will be made in commission. Thank you for your kind attention.
26. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Uganda, and I now give the floor to H.E. Ms Maria Luisa  Baltranena de Padilla, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Guatemala.  (M. Edjo Ovono, Guinée équatoriale, prend la présidence)
(27.1) Mme BELTRANENA DE PADILLA (Guatemala) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres d'Etat, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, notre  délégation adresse ses souhaits de bienvenue les plus chaleureux aux nouveaux membres qui viennent de faire  leur entrée dans cette importante institution qu'est l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et  la culture. Elle tient à féliciter le Président de la Conférence générale de son élection bien méritée et remercie  tous ceux grâce auxquels la présente Conférence peut se tenir.
(27.2) Le Guatemala est un petit monde pétri de lumière. Situé dans la ceinture tropicale de la planète - où  règne la chaleur la plus douce - il partage avec une douzaine de pays les privilèges de ia latitude de la luxuriance.  Par sa géographie, il abrite un vaste répertoire d'espèces zoologiques et végétales. Inscrit dans un isthme exposé à  un flux océanique puissant, son relief ramassé et sa latitude bénie par un régime des vents favorable en font un  pays au climat toujours agréable, aux horizons captivants et aux paysages inoubliables. Dans le règne animal, sa  richesse est telle qu'on y dénombre, par exemple 13 espèces de mammifères : plus qu'en tout autre point de  l'univers.
(27.3) Dès l'aube de l'Histoire, le pays a été dépeint par ses premiers habitants comme une terre généreuse,  couverte de forêts, Dans la chronique la plus ancienne, le Popol-Vuh, il est évoqué comme un lieu où les plantes  et les animaux sont si abondants qu'aux époques primitives - avant même toute agriculture organisée - il pouvait  alimenter des peuples entiers en migration et les repaître des délices de son miel sylvestre et de son gibier.  Toutefois, les "civilisations" de la poudre, de la vapeur et des émanations chimiques sont venues altérer cet €den.
(27.4)  S'inscrivant dans une réalité toujours plus complexe et plus interdépendante, les remords de l'Occident  ont éveillé la conscience écologique, afin que la scie mécanique n'abatte plus d'arbres en fleurs, que le piège et le  fusil ne poursuivent plus le mammifère assoiffé et que les oiseaux aux mille couleurs ne volent plus vers leur  extinction. Par ailleurs, un même remords, de plus en plus aigu lui aussi, s'est exprimé dans le discours  anthropologique. Après tant de souffrances indiennes, on a commencé à battre sa coulpe. L'Etat guatémaltèque a  peu à peu admis qu'il était fondamentalement pluriculturel et multilingue.
(27.5) Avec l'approche du cinquième centenaire de la présence espagnole en Amérique, la conscience politique  s'est éveillée à la nécessité de faire en sorte que les indigènes guatémaltèques vivent sur un pied d'égalité avec le  reste de la poputation.
(27.6)  L'irruption espagnole a marqué le début d'une dévastation humaine, qui s'est traduite à la fois par une  dramatique décimation de la population indigène, due aux épidémies causées par les maladies étrangères dont  étaient porteurs les Furopéens et par une ségrégation systématique qui a commencé avec les "reducciones” et les  "encomiendas”. Ce cinquième centenaire imminent est une occasion de relecture de l'Histoire ct constitue un  point de départ pour l'éducation guatémaltèque, qui devra s'attaquer à la détérioration progressive de l'homme et  de la nature. Cette dégradation est dénoncée depuis que la société de consommation et la culture nationale  hégémonique ont été remises en question. Avec la société de consommation, des conduites viciées se sont  imposées, assorties de contre-valeurs qui gagnent peu à peu et ouvertement du terrain. La désagrégation du  concept de dignité personnelle et la disparition du sens de la transcendance ne sont pas seulement des problèmes  éthiques, mais des menaces pour l'imaginaire et la survie même de notre société.
(27.7) Depuis une quinzaine d'années, aussi, les mouvements indigènes luttent pour revendiquer leurs droits et  en particulier pour rendre vie à leurs cultures. Au moment où s'engage, au niveau du continent, l'indispensable  réflexion qu'appelle le cinquième centenaire d'une rencontre qui a marqué le choc de deux cultures, admettre que  les peuples indigènes doivent être intégrés dans la culture nationale dominante ne suffit pas ; il faut absolument  rechercher de nouvelles formules de coexistence.
(27.8) Longtemps, le niveau élevé d'analphabétisme du Guatemala, plus accentué chez les indigènes, est  apparu comme un handicap. C'est là une prolongation de la vision eurocentrique, qui évalue le progrès des  peuples à la maîtrise de l'alphabet de l'Occident. Certes, au Guatemala tout le monde ne sait pas lire les caractères  de l'alphabet latin, en revanche, la diversité des lectures de la réalité, à la fois si proches et si éloignées de la  pensée occidentale, est très riche, même si cette richesse est méconnue.
(27.9) Cet analphabétisme, le gouvernement et les autres secteurs de la société se sont montrés pleinement  disposés à agir pour l'éliminer, mais l'incidence contraire des facteurs extérieurs et de la situation interne du  système éducatif s'est révélée décisive. Il est aujourd'hui permis de penser, qu'avec la fin, aussi surprenante  qu'enthousiasmante, des tensions Est-Ouest ct la profonde transformation du climat des relations internationales,  les priorités des Etats précédemment engagés dans la "guerre froide” vont changer. Ce conflit non déclaré avait en  effet axé sur la guerre la majeure partie des ressources, les détournant des objectifs essentiels, à poursuivre  d'urgence, comme l'alphabétisation. Au niveau national, on voit peu à peu se dissiper la principale raison qui  faisait obstacle à une action suivie en matière d'alphabétisation, à savoir la crainte que celle-ci ne représente une  menace politique ou ne mette en cause la légitimité des dirigeants politiques, dans la mesure où elle était liée à  une exigence de justice sociale.
(27.10) Il importe, dans l'analyse sociale, de tenir compte d'une réalité incontournable : l'existence d'une culture  de résistance qui est le fait de près de la moitié de la population guatémaltèque. C'est une culture propre à la  population indigène. Son existence même impose au système éducatif de s'ouvrir à d'autres formes de  socialisation, ce qui se traduirait par le renforcement des cultures indigènes et l'octroi à celles-ci de la faculté  d'arrêter - et de gérer - dans un avenir idéal, le type d'éducation qui leur conviendrait le mieux.
(27.11) La démocratie au Guatemala se trouve actuellement dans une phase de consolidation et bien que, pour  les impatients, cette phase ait duré plus longtemps qu'on ne l'escomptait, ce n'est pas faute d'une volonté suffisante  de la mener à son terme. La raison en est plutôt qu'il s'agit d'un processus relativement récent, caractérisé par les  balbutiements, les changements de cap et les premiers pas hésitants, symptomatiques d'une culture politique  naissante. Les résultats obtenus sont importants, si l'on compare cette période de moins de six ans où les  gouvernements ont été élus par le peuple à la longue, très longue, étape d'autoritarismes de toutes sortes qui ont  laissé leur trace indélébile sur notre paysage politique. Cet apprentissage coûteux n'a pas été exempt d'accès de  fièvre, que l'on pourrait interpréter comme une exhalaison des aspirations de liberté, d'égalité et de justice que les  Guatémaltèques ont si longtemps réprimées.
(27.12) Le silence forcé a engendré une revendication extrémiste, qui a entretenu dans le pays un climat de  guerre non déclarée pendant plusieurs décennies. Mais, au cours de ce processus de rééducation politique, le
281   dialogue et la négociation civilisée ont exercé leurs effets bénéfiques, favorisant l'apaisement et le règlement des  conflits sociaux.
(27.13) Ainsi, tant le gouvernement que les groupes rebelles en armes ont manifesté leur volonté de paix en  réfléchissant de concert à ce qui faisait obstacle à l'instauration d'une concorde sociale fondée sur les principes de  la justice. Voici quelques années, ce type d'échange verbal entre des secteurs de la société qui ne concevaient  d'autre forme de relation que la violence aurait été impensable.
(27.14) On cherche maintenant à mettre un terme à ce conflit, auxquels les uns ont fourni les idéologies, les  autres les armes et nous les morts. Le secteur de l'éducation a contribué à créer un nouveau style de  gouvernement, dans lequel la participation et la transparence se sont substituées à l'autoritarisme et à la négation  de toute réflexion critique. Si les confrontations entre le corps enseignant et le gouvernement ont été les signes  cliniques de la généralisation de la démocratie en Amérique latine - et le Guatemala n'a pas fait exception à la  règle - le fossé entre eux s'est progressivement comblé. Fossé dû à un autoritarisme profondément ancré et à  l'oubli dans lequel avait été maintenue l'une des corporations les plus vigilantes et, partant, les plus susceptibles  de favoriser tantôt l'immobilisme, tantôt le changement, ces extrêmes dont l'alternance a caractérisé l'histoire de  notre éducation. A l'heure actuelle, les divergences sont réduites à des questions de forme et, sur le fond, on a  cherché à faire concorder tant les principes que les efforts.
(27.15) Cette synergie entre les autorités ministérielles et les maîtres est illustrée par l'augmentation des crédits  accordés à l'éducation, pour en faire un facteur de développement efficace. La nouvelle loi régissant l'éducation  nationale a été promulguée en janvier dernier et se fonde sur les propositions de l'avant-garde enseignante. Elle  prévoit que l'Etat augmentera les crédits budgétaires affectés à l'éducation à concurrence de 7 % du produit  intérieur brut. Plus que d'une norme, il s'agit là d'une obligation qui est devenue une revendication des  fonctionnaires comme des travailleurs de l'éducation. Ce faisant, l'Etat guatémalteque satisfera à la  recommandation énoncée en 1979 par les ministres de l'éducation de l'Amérique latine, connue sous le nom de  "Déclaration de Mexico", et qui invitait les pays de la région à consacrer ce pourcentage minimal du produit  intérieur brut à leurs besoins éducatifs pour les satisfaire réellement et efficacement.
(27.16) Malgré le pas en avant que constitue cette déclaration d'intention, le montant des dépenses publiques  consacrées à l'éducation continue de dépendre du service de la dette extérieure et des taux de croissance  économique qui sont faibles. Que nous le voulions ou non, une grande austérité financière continuera de présider  aux politiques et aux stratégies éducatives. Mais si nous ne pouvons échapper à la gêne financière, nous espérons  en revanche sortir de cet engrenage en appliquant des stratégies peu coûteuses, mais efficaces.
(27.17) Les principes, les politiques et les stratégies de l'éducation visent actuellement à élever les niveaux  d'efficacité, de qualité et d'équité, à partir de deux grandes transformations : la régionalisation tout d'aberd, qui a  permis de repenser le rôle de l'Etat guatémaltèque et de poser le principe de sa nécessaire rationalisation.  L'adéquation des programmes scolaires ensuite, qui permet de compenser la modicité des ressources. Tel est le  schéma qui a été suivi pour redéfinir le rôle de l'école traditionnelle, afin d'en faire une véritable école pour la  paix. Cette nouvelle école est destinée non pas à rejeter certains élèves pour des raisons d'ordre culturel, mais à  favoriser la rencontre des cultures. C'est là un progrès important, étant donné que pendant des siècles le système  scolaire guatémaltèque s'est fait le défenseur d'une culture nationale, unique, hégémonique et ségrégationniste, au  détriment des cultures indigènes et des minorités ethniques.
(27.18) En améliorant les programmes, on espère éviter l'échec scolaire, qui se traduit par des taux élevés de  redoublement et d'abandon. On cherche à assurer aux élèves une formation complète, à travers un plan d'étude  dont la souplesse doit permettre de répondre aux besoins éducatifs essentiels de la population, en quantité et en  qualité, de façon juste et équitable en fonction des caractéristiques personnelles, culturelles et sociales ainsi que  des besoins, des intérêts et des problèmes de chacun. Il s'agit de faire en sorte que tous les enfants  guatémaltèques, en particulier ceux qui viennent des groupes les plus vulnérables, bénéficient d'une éducation  fonctionnelle et utile. Cette stratégie est inscrite dans le Cadre d'action pour répondre aux besoins éducatifs  fondamentaux, par lequel le Guatemala, non content d'avoir adhérer à la Déclaration mondiale sur l'éducation  pour tous, s'est attaché à la mettre en pratique.
(27.19) Parallèlement aux deux stratégies qui visent à améliorer d'une part la qualité et d'autre part l'efficacité  du système éducatif guatémaltèque, on s'emploie à adapter les résultats positifs d'une autre expérience latino-  américaine : l'Ecole nouvelle de Colombie. Cette formule, dûment aménagée, est mise en oeuvre à titre de projet  pilote dans une des zones du pays où le conflit politique et social a été le plus aigu, et où il tend d'ailleurs  actuellement à s'atténuer. Les initiatives visant à ce que soit reconnu le rôle central des éducateurs dans  l'explication des processus et des résultats éducatifs ont par ailleurs été soutenues avec pour résultat un libre  débat pédagogique, inhabituel dans les annales de l'éducation guatémaltèque.
(27.20) Peu à peu, le consensus s'est fait sur la nécessité de repenser la fonction de l'enseignant, de façon à ne  plus rendre les lacunes de la formation pédagogique seules responsables des déficiences de l'enseignement, mais
282   de situer le problème de son amélioration qualitative et de son efficacité au niveau des bases institutionnelles du  système. Cette stratégie, bien qu'appelée à porter ses fruits à plus long terme, a déjà permis de renforcer le  caractère professionnel de la tâche accomplie par les maîtres guatémaltèques.
(27.21) Monsieur le Président, nous apprécions que dans cette instance dédiée à l'éducation, la science et la  culture, on traite, dans le cadre du programme général, de l'alphabétisation, de l'enseignement universitaire, de  l'enseignement technique et professionnel, de l'éducation environnementale, de la formation scientifique, du  renforcement des valeurs, et dans le cadre des sciences sociales, dans la perspective d'une démarche participative,  de la communication en tant qu'instrument de diffusion culturelle, ferment de la solidarité mondiale. C'est sur elle  que le Guatemala se fonde lorsqu'il croit et espère pouvoir disposer de l'appui inconditionnel de l'UNESCO et des  pays développés pour promouvoir son propre développement.
(27.22) Les programmes de l'UNESCO sont parvenus au monde entier, mais les problèmes auxquels ils se  proposent de répondre demeurent latents ou même se sont aggravés. Permettez-moi de souligner que si l'on s'est  attaqué, par le biais d'une campagne mondiale à cette grave maladie qu'est l'analphabétisme, le virus qui la cause  continue à proliférer dans les conditions propices d'une couverture scolaire insuffisante, ce qui explique que, dans  nombre des interventions antérieures, on ait pu parler à juste titre de forte recrudescence.
(27.23) Dans le cadre du programme transversal consacré à l'amélioration de la condition de la femme, tous les  pays ont inené, avec l'aide de l'UNESCO, un grand nombre de projets. Mais on n'a pas prêté assez d'attention à la  réalité, au fait que nos filles ne peuvent aller à l'école parce qu'elles sont une main-d'oeuvre au foyer presque  impossible à remplacer.
(27.24) Mesdames et Messieurs les représentants des pays membres, vous qui exécutez les décisions de la  Conférence générale, je voudrais, en évoquant la mémoire d'un homme, Guillermo Putzeys Alvarez, qui a  consacré en grande partie l'essentiel et le meilleur de sa vie à l'UNESCO, formuler une dernière recommandation  et apporter un dernier message du Guatemala. Je voudrais demander à cette instance de se souvenir que la culture  maya est et sera toujours un patrimoine de l'humanité qui doit être respecté, revalorisé et sauvé. Outre que le  monde s'enrichira d'un trésor qui est demeuré enfoui, caché, ainsi resurgira une identité régionale qui permettra  aux esprits de s'imprégner des principes qui ont fait sa grandeur : la solidarité, la compréhension, la justice et la  paix. Fassent l'esprit du ciel et de la terre qu'elle recouvre cette grandeur. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(28) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation guatémaltèque de son intervention. Je donne maintenant la parole à  Mgr. Lorenzo Antonetti, chef de la délégation du Saint-Siège.
29.1 Mgr. ANTONETTI (Saint-Siège) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de présenter au Président, au nom de la délégation du Saint-  Siège, mes plus vives félicitations pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO.  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, les  deux dernières années qui se sont écoulées depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale ont été  marquées par les événements que vous savez. Ils ont profondément modifié l'horizon de la situation mondiale  surtout en Europe et au Moyen-Orient. Actuellement, de nombreux et délicats problèmes se posent à nombre de  régions du monde quant à leur avenir non seulement politique et économique, mais aussi éthique.
29.2 — La délégation du Saint-Siège, avant tout, estime de son devoir moral de faire ici mention des graves  conséquences du conflit armé qui, depuis quelques mois, dévaste une noble terre d'Europe, la Yougoslavie, et  particulièrement la Croatie. Notre pensée va, tout d'abord et spécialement aux nombreuses victimes du conflit.  Dans cette enceinte, il nous faut regretter que, malgré les dispositions de la Convention de La Haye qui  demande le respect et la protection des biens culturels en cas de conflit armé, de graves dommages aient été  causés au patrimoine culturel et historique. Dans plusieurs villes et villages, des monuments internationalement  connus et d'autres particulièrement importants pour la vie de la communauté chrétienne ont été détruits ou  gravement endommagés. À ce propos, lc Saint-Siège désire exprimer ses remerciements au Directeur général  pour son récent appel en faveur du respect du patrimoine culturel. Quarante-cinq ans après sa création,  l'UNESCO ne peut pas ne pas s'interroger devant toutes ces situations nouvelles et devant leurs perspectives.
29.3 — Fidélité à l'idéal et à la mission qui lui ont été fixés au sein des Nations Unies, pour une tâche  spécifique visant le service de la paix par l'éducation, la culture, la science, et aussi la communication,
283   ouverture et réponse aux problèmes nouveaux qui se posent aujourd'hui, ces deux exigences seraient-elles  incompatibles ? Aucunement. C'est en étant encore plus elle-même, en affirmant et en approfondissant sa  spécificité, que l'UNESCO sera la plus apte à répondre aux appels, aux besoins du monde d'aujourd'hui dans le  champ des tâches qui lui ont été fixées.
294 — Mais, parce qu'elle ne poursuit pas l'action politique qui revient à l'Organisation des Nations Unies,  parce qu'elle n'est pas directement concernée par les problèmes qui sont au premier rang de l'actualité,  s'agissant de questions qui relèvent de l'Organisation des Nations Unies et de ses autres institutions spécialisées,  l'UNESCO ne retient pas l'attention autant qu'elle le mériterait. En une telle conjoncture, la délégation du  Saint-Siège tient à souligner l'importance et l'urgence des tâches de l'UNESCO, essentiellement parce qu'elle  répond tout particulièrement à l'idéal de la défense des droits de l'homme, de la promotion de l'homme  principalement par la culture, et de la paix entre les hommes, que l'éghse a toujours partagé. Rappelons tout  spécialement le discours du pape Jean-Paul II à l'UNESCO le 2 juin 1980.
29.5 Aussi, le Saint-Siège entend-il appuyer plus encore que dans le passé l'action de l'UNESCO. L'idéal  qu'elle poursuit est, en dépit des incontestables progrès de ces dernières années, encore loin d'être pleinement  atteint, s'agissant des libertés, et particulièrement de la liberté religieuse, à cause de graves déviances et  carences. D'un côté, un abus dégradant de la richesse et de ce qui permet le pouvoir de l'argent, chez les plus  favorisés ; d'autre part, l'impossibilité, chez les plus démunis, d'atteindre un niveau de vie décent, suffisant,  qu'il s'agisse de l'alimentation et de la santé, et des besoins de l'homme dont s'occupe l'UNESCO, en premier  lieu l'éducation, de l'alphabétisation jusqu'à l'accès aux savoirs et à l'information, comme le marque si bien  l'orientation de la Conférence mondiale de Jomtien sur l'éducation pour tous. On n'a pas encore assez souligné  l'enjeu que représente l'éducation pour la promotion de la culture et pour le développement.
296 La délégation du Saint-Siège voudrait aussi insister sur une perspective d'une extrême actualité et qui  doit retenir au plus haut point l'attention de l'UNESCO pour les orientations de son action, à savoir le lien étroit  qui peut et doit exister, mais qui ne sera assuré que par une saine volonté des peuples, entre le progrès si  notable de la démocratie auquel nous assistons aujourd'hui et le progrès de la culture. Certes l'Eglise n'a pas à  prendre position sur les modalités des systèmes politiques. Néanmoins, au nom de l'idéal chrétien de l'homme  et de l'humanité, qui coïncide en tant de points avec l'idéal de la Charte des Nations Unies et de la Déclaration  universelle des droits de l'homme, l'Eglise ne saurait admettre des régimes politiques qui portent atteinte aux  libertés. A l'opposé, elle appuie la démocratie - comme le pape Pie XII l'a dit avec force lors de la dernière  guerre mondiale dans un célèbre message - parce qu'elle repose sur des principes de liberté et d'égalité  fondamentale entre les hommes, si malaisée que puisse être son instauration dans des Etats qui longtemps ne  l'ont pas connue.
29.7 Ce contexte, ce climat, si heureusement améliorés, offrent à l'UNESCO des possibilités accrues,  spécialement durant cette Décennie du développement culturel qui est, entre autres, marquée par le souci de la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel et naturel dont l'UNESCO contribue si heureusement à la reconnaissance et  à la protection, le déclarant patrimoine mondial dans ses réalisations les plus remarquables.
29.8 Le développement de la culture, au sens le plus large, le plus complet, le plus réaliste, implique  l'éducation, l'acquisition des savoirs et des pratiques qui, tout à la fois, respectent la culture de chaque peuple et  lui donnent toute sa valeur, et en même temps sont ouverts à la science et à la technologie qui, bien comprises  et appliquées, doivent enrichir l'homme et la société humaine dans un sens spirituel. Mais il nous faut lutter  contre ses perversions, parmi lesquelles il faudrait signaler la prolifération des armements, spécialement ceux  dont les effets sont les plus meurtriers, ainsi que certaines pratiques biologiques qui, dans le cas de l'homme,  constituent une atteinte infiniment grave à la dignité, au respect absolu de la personne humaine, lorsqu'elles  touchent surtout la génération et le terme de la vie terrestre.
299 La délégation du Saint-Siège voudrait, au terme de son intervention, souligner le sens et l'importance  de l'universalité que doit partager l'UNESCO avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies et ses autres institutions  spécialisées, et dont on ressent de plus en plus la nécessité. Contrairement à ce qu'on croit assez souvent, cette  universalité n'est pas une abstraction ou une vaine mise en commun de vues et d'actions, elle doit prendre la  forme d'initiatives concrètes et tout faire pour les réaliser.
29.10 L'UNESCO notamment est un lieu où s'affirme pleinement la souveraineté et l'identité de chaque  nation, et en même temps leur fondamentale égalité. Le réalisme pourtant nous fait un devoir de reconnaître les  problèmes complexes et combien délicats dont toute l'histoire a été marquée et que pose, spécialement
284   aujourd'hui, l'harmonisation des souverainetés et des affirmations nationales. Celle-ci ne pourra se réaliser que  par des concessions réciproques et dans le respect des minorités - de leur langue, de leur culture - que comptent  tant de nations.
29.11 D'ailleurs ces souverainetés n'auront-elles pas désormais à s'ouvrir au-delà des affrontements aux si  funestes conséquences à une solidarité accrue au sein de plus grandes unités. Alors seulement la paix sera une  véritable paix, et sera pleinement réalisée l'universalité des Nations. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(30.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Saint-Siège de son intervention. Je donne maintenant la parole à  S. Exc. M. Wolfgang Schallenberg, ambassadeur extraordinaire et plédipotentiaire, chef de la délégation  autrichienne.
(30.2) Je prie instamment Mesdames et Messieurs les orateurs de bien vouloir tenir compte des temps de  parole fixés. Je vous remercie.
31.1 Mr SCHALLENBERG (Austria):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, the Austrian Minister for Education and Culture, Rudolf Scholten, who planned to address the  General Conference today, had to cancel his trip to Paris only this morning as he was suddenly faced with  problems with regard to his ministry's budget which made his presence in Vienna indispensable. He asks me to  convey to you his sincere regrets and to stress his personal interest in UNESCO and its work. As Permanent  Representative of Austria, I therefore have the honour to read his speech to you.
31.2 Let me begin by congratulating Mr Ogot on his election, and by wishing him success in the difficult  task he has undertaken. I also wish to join all those who have expressed their satisfaction in welcoming in our  midst the delegation of Tuvalu as well as of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. I am especially pleased to see the  latter States resume their rightful place in the community of sovereign and independent nations.
31.3 This General Conference takes place exactly 45 years after the Organization was established on
4 November 1946. UNESCO's foundation was part of the efforts to create a new world order after the chaos of  the Second World War, an order developed not just by States but by supranational institutions as well. This  effort found its expression in the establishment of organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank,  the International Monetary Fund and UNESCO.
314 This world order has since undergone radical changes. New States - hoping for more justice and  peace - are striving for new structures of international co-operation. International organizations such as  UNESCO are thus faced with new tasks and challenges. This year's General Conference will be an event of the  highest importance because the Organization is endeavouring to reform its Constitution. We hope that this  assembly will come to satisfactory conclusions in what 1s a difficult situation.
31.5 Mr President, the present situation may appear to be particularly complex as it confronts us with new  and decisive changes. Bearing in mind that change is an inherent element of life, we have to search for new  approaches. The challenge of constantly finding new beginnings and the question of UNESCO's significance as  such confronts us once again. There has been talk of a crisis at UNESCO for a long time. However, does il not  reflect the intellectual crisis of our times?
31.6 Numerous efforts have been made over the past five years, and current endeavours to streamline the  Constitution of UNESCO and its bodies allow us to conclude that our Organization will be able to cope with the  ongoing changes in the world. Let me therefore sincerely thank the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, and  all members of the Secretariat, as well as the members of the Executive Board, for their efforts to ensure  UNESCO's effective operation in fulfilment of its statutory tasks.
31.7 Mr President, I started out by mentioning a new world order which was to be designed by the  international organizations. "World order’ is a grand concept which was reintroduced at the beginning of this  year and which has received a new significance in view of the changes taking place in Central Europe and the  collapse of unrealistic ideologies.
31.8 This new world order in my opinion can be established, provided that it is based on freedom. Yet order  also means the rule of law, and it is only by ensuring such an order in freedom that the human rights in a truly  free society, formulated 200 years ago, will be transformed into civil rights.
31.9 Mr President, we have all heard alarming reports about attacks against and destruction of cultural  property in the area of conflict between the Yugoslav People's Army and the armed forces of Croatia. 1  therefore noted with satisfaction the statement made last week by the Director-General and I hope UNESCO  will continue to offer its services to the parties in this armed conflict in accordance with Article 19 of the Hague  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.
31.10 The new world order will have to ensure peace on the basis of human rights and the fundamental  rights of the community of nations. This also explains the importance of education for peace and human rights  under Major Programme Area VII of UNESCO's programme, which is fully supported by Austria. Activities  pursued by two Austrian non-governmental organizations, the European University for Peace Studies in  Schlaining and the University Centre for Peace Studies in Vienna, should be viewed in this light.
31.11 I feel that the non-governmental organizations are an element of special importance because, in  working towards the implementation of human rights, they are contributing to their transformation into legally  binding civil rights, and thereby acting as brokers for the new world order. From the Ford Foundation to  Médecins sans Frontières, from Willy Brandt's Development and Peace Foundation to the Bruno Kreisky  Foundation - all of them are led by committed idealists who, by their specific tasks, help to strengthen universal  human rights.
31.12 Quite especially, non-governmental organizations also contribute to preserving and maintaining the  variety of cultural phenomena in the world. UNESCO is faced with the dilemma of having to assume enormous  tasks, such as the campaigns to eradicate illiteracy or to provide environmental and heritage protection, with  scant means. In consequence, minor tasks have to be set aside, since our entire budget is not sufficient to solve  worldwide problems in the field of our responsibility. Yet the withdrawal of financial assistance for  international non-governmental organizations would mean the end for many of them and thus toll the bell for  cultural diversity. I would therefore enter a plea for funds for the NGOs' work not to be cut.
31.13 Mr President, in order to fulfil its tasks, UNESCO should regain its universality. We strongly hope  that the countries which have left our Organization and which carry the highest responsibility in shaping the  new world order we wish to construct together will rejoin UNESCO as soon as possible.
31.14 Mr President, with regard to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, Austria agrees with the  principles although some details will still have to be raised by our delegation in the relevant commissions. I  would, however, like here to make some comments regarding specific topics.
31.15 First, I will touch upon the matter of the National Commissions for UNESCO. They are being  accorded greater significance by the Secretariat and the Executive Board, and this is a welcome development in  view of their contribution to the realization of UNESCO's objectives and ideals on a broad basis. In my capacity  as Minister chiefly responsible for the Austrian National Commission for UNESCO, I can assure you that my  ministry is increasing its involvement within the scope of UNESCO, especially as regards co-operation with  developing countries in the field of education and culture.
31.16 Our main interest is directed towards co-operating with such decentralized educational facilities of  UNESCO, as the International Bureau of Education (IBE), the Intemational Institute for Educational Planning  (IEP) and the UNESCO Institute for Education in Hamburg (UIE). Concerning IIEP activities, I should like to  point out that this year Austria co-financed and organized a workshop for educational planners from developing  countries in Vienna. Let me add that within the scope of the education programme, our major focus is  environmental education.
31.17 Among the Austrian manifestations of assistance to UNESCO in implementing its tasks, I should like  to mention the European Co-ordination Centre for Research and Documentation in Social Sciences, the so-  called "Vienna Centre’, which over the last 25 years has been doing fruitful work, transcending former political  blocs and confrontations; the activities of the Centre have taken on a new dimension in the light of the changes  taking place in Europe.
31.18 Austria also appreciates the work performed by the General Information Programme (PGI) in all its  fields of activity. Subjects such as software development, terminology issues, library and audio-visual archiving  are frequently given inadequate attention despite the fact that they are tasks with long-term significance.
31.19 Mr President, allow me to make a critical comment concerning the organization of the Participation  Programme. This is a major tool for realizing projects of regional importance worldwide and has a great impact  on the people concerned. It can also improve and promote knowledge and awareness of UNESCO. Yet,  experience in the past years has shown that the management of funds is unsatisfactory. I feel that there is a  need for a fundamental improvement in the management of the Participation Programme.
31.20 Mr President, Austria has strengthened its commitment in numerous areas of UNESCO activities, not  least in the promotion of the 'Blue Danube’ programme as a response to the changes in Central Europe,  providing for this purpose, an administrative office and two employees to ensure efficient implementation of the  UNESCO programme in co-operation with the countries of the Danube region.
31.21 UNESCO's Constitution envisages a periodic renewal of the Executive Board, and Austria has  submitted its candidature for membership on the Board for the forthcoming elections. Our candidate, Dr Heinz  Loffler, is a well-known university professor and highly reputed scientist. Dr. Loffler has frequently served as  chairman of commissions at General Conferences. In many years of chairing the Austrian MAB programme  and as a member of the Austrian National Commission for UNESCO he has become familiar with UNESCO's  work style, and as the head of numerous hydrological study programmes and training courses in more than
50 countries all over the world, he has acquired intimate knowledge of the social and ecological problems of  developing countries. He is considered a leading expert in his field, moreover, he combines scientific ethics  with political sensitivity. Thanks to Austria's ability to present such an outstanding candidate and in view of the  fact that our country has not been a member of the Executive Board since 1976, Austria 1s asking your support  to elect him to the seat currently held by Switzerland.
31.22 When the Director-General of UNESCO visited Austria last year, it was agreed to establish a liaison  office between UNESCO and the United Nations organizations in Vienna. Austria has supplied office space on  United Nations premises in Vienna, which will be equipped by an Austrian sponsor.
31.23 The mission of an associate expert to Pakistan last year and the organization of the vocational  education workshop which I mentioned earlier for educational planners from developing countries are just two  signs that show that Austria is fully aware of the concerns put forward by the Third World and responds to  them.
31.24 Mr President - and with these remarks I shall conclude - this year Austria is commemorating the two  hundreth anniversary of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's death, an anniversary celebrated by UNESCO as well.  Mozart is commemorated because his message continues to be valid today. His cosmopolitan genius and  musical harmony remind us of the Age of Enlightenment. In that period, the concept of liberty was newly  defined and became the basis for the principles of human rights which have achieved their worldwide  dimensions only today. His opera ‘Le Nozze di Figaro' is an expression of individual freedom, and his  "Zauberflote' shows us how hate and disdain are overcome by charity and self-discipline. These values have  retained their validity in the changed world of the twentieth century because the fundamentals of the human  condition have not changed. Let us all strive to preserve these values for generations to come by consciously co-  operating in the tasks of UNESCO. Thank you.
(32) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation autrichienne de son intervention et lui sait gré d'avoir  rigoureusement respecté son temps de parole. Je donne maintenant la parole a S. Exc. M. Cyril Walker, ministre  de l'éducation, chef de la délégation barbadienne.
33.1 Mr WALKER (Barbados):  Mr President, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to join my colleagues in offering Mr Ogot my heartiest  congratulations on his election to preside over the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO.  It is indeed an honour for me to be afforded once again the opportunity to bring you the warm greetings and  best wishes of the Government and people of Barbados.
33.2 Mr President, I shall now refer to the areas of greatest importance of my country which are included in  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 presented to this session of the General Conference for  examination and decision.
33.3 In the field of education, Barbados welcomes the continued prominence given to basic, adult and  continuing education and to scientific and technological education. My government has always placed  education and the training of its people high on its list of programmes. In fact, the allocation of a large share of  the overall budget to the education sector stems from our perception that people are our nation's greatest  resource and that the quality of this resource depends in large measure on the quality of education. It is for this  reason that Barbados continues to provide free education from early childhood up to and including tertiary  education. Indeed, there is no more fundamental means of developing a country’s potential than through  education. Education offers hope for the future and promotes peace and understanding. Nothing worth while  can be achieved without education.
334 My government is appreciative of UNESCO's continued attention to educational planning and  management and to the training of educational personnel both at the policy and the teaching levels.  Mr President, a well-functioning education system depends to a great extent on an efficiently applied education  policy. Accordingly, we fully support the planned activities of Subprogramme 1.3.2 which addresses the  improvement of educational planning and administration. In this regard my government has recently received  assistance from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank for a programme of school  rehabilitation and construction with a substantial human resource development component. A major portion of  these funds has been channelled into the human resource development of personnel in the central  administration of the Ministry of Education.
33.5 Mr President, as far as Major Programme Area II is concerned, my country and quite naturally its  sister islands in the Caribbean, place particular emphasis on Subprogramme 11.2.2 (Earth sciences and natural  hazards). In order to lessen the devastating effect which hurricanes have on our societies, it is essential for us to  strengthen the procedures for disaster preparedness. In fact, after the last hurricane in 1989, which created  havoc in Caribbean countries, a Regional Disaster Preparedness Programme was set up. This will, I believe,  help to reduce the impact of any future natural disaster in our region.
33.6 Of particular interest to Barbados, too, is Programme IL.2 which deals with the environment and  natural resources management and includes research on ocean and marine resources. Barbados attaches the  greatest importance to programmes and activities aimed at better protection of the environment. Small  developing island countries such as my own, as you will appreciate, Mr President, are especially vulnerable to  the illegal dumping of toxic or other waste in their coastal areas. This practice is a major cause of alarm for our  small island States in the Caribbean, which depend to a great extent on the safe and secure use of our beaches  and waters for the promotion of a tourism that earns us much-needed foreign exchange. It is therefore my  sincere hope that these issues will continue to be addressed in UNESCO's programmes.
33.7 Mr President, I now turn my attention to Major Programme Area III (Culture: past, present and  future). We in Barbados appreciate and recognize the very important work which UNESCO has done and  continues to do in this area. The Government of Barbados is fully committed to a programme of dynamic  cultural development for all Barbadians. We therefore generally endorse the activities under the programme.  We in the Caribbean note that some funds have been provided for the Caribbean Festival of Creative Art  commonly known as CARIFESTA. However, we must express our disappointment at the amount of funds  allocated for this, the premier festival of the Caribbean region.
33.8 The fifth CARIFESTA will be held in Trinidad in August 1992 and I sincerely hope that you,  Mr President, and all other delegates will wend your way to the Caribbean to share in this cultural  extravaganza which not only brings together people of the Caribbean with different languages and cultures but  allows them to share their varying experiences through the media of song, dance, drama, poetry and the other  performing arts.
33.9 Mr President, the culture and history of a country 1s what makes a nation, especially a small proud  nation. Barbados has often been assisted by UNESCO in its cultural projects and we look forward to continued  co-operation in this area. It is a cause for pleasure that the draft programme and budget accords high priority to  the preservation of the cultural heritage. This preservation becomes even more important owing to the cultural  penetration which small States like Barbados experience. Such efforts to preserve our individual heritages will  assist us in maintaining our unique histories and traditions.
33.10 Mr President, the Government of Barbados wishes to associate itself with the objectives of Major  Programme Area IV (Communication in the service of humanity). We believe that UNESCO has a positive role  to play in improving the flow of information from South to North and within the North itself. It is also clear  that UNESCO will have 10 play an ever-increasing role in facilitating the process by which the people of  developing countries will gain from improved access to knowledge. A free flow of information can only lead to  a greater understanding among peoples of the world. At the same time, however, it is critical for us to develop  our own systems of communication so that we may learn for ourselves what is going on within our own  communities. Too often we are faced with a flood of material from the industrialized countries which in some  cases has a negative impact on our societies. There is therefore a need to remove the dependence of Caribbean  communication systems on foreign programme material while at the same time expanding the volume and  improving the quality of programme material.
33.11 Concerned as we are about the one-way flow of information into the Caribbean region, there is also a  need to market Caribbean programmes more aggressively in North America and the United Kingdom and in  any other areas where there are significant communities with Caribbean interests.
33.12 Mr President, permit me to turn my attention to other matters no less important than the programme  and budget. UNESCO must be congratulated on the process of decentralization, the strengthening of the  presence of UNESCO at the regional level and the promotion of links with National Commissions. This  decentralization has of course reached the Caribbean subregion where the offices of the Caribbean Network of  Educational Innovation for Development, better known as CARNEID, in Barbados and of the Science and  Technology Adviser in Trinidad have been upgraded to the level of representational status. We believe that  there is now a need to provide the human and material resources to permit these offices to play a positive and  effective role in the service of Member States.
33.13 Mr President, we also firmly believe that UNESCO needs to give priority when filling vacant posts to  countries previously not represented or under-represented, provided of course that the candidates fulfil the  required conditions. It is our opinion that this would assist in bringing greater interaction and continuity  between UNESCO and the largest possible number of its Member States.
33.14 Mr President, no one here would deny that countries within a subregion or region have certain  similarities. However, it is important to recognize significant cultural and linguistic differences of individual  countries and countries in a subregion vis-à-vis the region as a whole. It must therefore be emphasized that  each subgroup must be allowed to have a say in and influence on the formulation of policy. This 1s no less  important for the Caribbean subregion with its own peculiarities. If every subregion cannot be represented on  the Executive Board, can we then truly say that the explicit statement in the Constitution that the Executive  Board in electing members ‘shall have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical  distribution’ is being carried out?
33.15 1 sincerely hope that after Saturday, 26 November, every subregion will have representation on the  Board, and might I add, in its subsidiary bodies, commensurate with its numerical strength.
33.16 Mr President, I cannot conclude without making reference to an issue of critical importance and  growing dimensions. You are aware that many small countries now face growing debt burdens which are  affecting their efforts towards development. This has had an adverse effect on or led to a halt in the  programmes which these countries had been achieving in health, education and other services. The areas of
289   health and education in particular are crucial to the social and economic development of countries and therefore  any failures in the delivery of related programmes can have a devastating effect. It is my government's opinion  that UNESCO's programmes and activities should address these problems.
33.17 In closing, I wish to express my country's appreciation of the dedicated service of the Director-General  and look forward to his continued support. Mr President, I am sure that under your expert and skilful guidance  and with the wise counsel of the Director-General, this twenty-sixth session of the UNESCO General  Conference will be successful and the Organization will continue to grow from strength to strength. I thank  you.
(34) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation barbadienne de son intervention. Je donne maintenant la parole à  S. Exc. M. Hamad Abdul Rahman Al Madfa, ministre de l'éducation, chef de la délégation des Emirats arabes  unis.  (M. Pulat Tacar, Turquie, prend la présidence)  : (saan) Las gal wl, LY) hall sauf VO,  Wl das 55 pale poland) ca ghgll olinely olan; Bilal) pladl 405548 Gus; sad) pas 551 am) UN pus
2S) lial] all pe alia Lagny Lut, BAM Lis padl wl Ld Uys oa pall Glan Tink Taal AIS 925  SAIL puisi BF ses alan gladly FA AIG Sasdadly Gulf plod! La pi sh y suis) Lakialy lavas  Jlacl 5 pales dae Ce JS y pled] sai3all Gabad) Laladl 3,080) Gutsy panda) 551 wand] dled oli pas  Aa 3g all putt emg gl small Aled F5 55019 plasd] Liat (pall alls  HEIL 03 sd Ce slada¥ly SUR SVI ein syd pps la 11555 pelle Gaal Uad¥l als pad VON  Whasilly Lakiall oda File Sle SEL Lad ghoud) pan plais (led Ukiay slat Juss pst] Lal) Lalall  atl) PLU) 3 lida y VAS) Vpn y VALIAU GERI Gu 5lsall 3,00)
3 bead hohe gran of Ld peas ANNFHNANE lad Tal5ally palin) page JI LokS 130, Yo, ¥  candy 45 24500 Tali Add Gk cS ly Ga Sasi) dadl dials lead! Vin (SAS Tae,  Halls 5 LB 55088 adel Tus 3ally li ff Toad) lal à Weds 1g gall! pias pals JI sSad sally  ail Oa Takia Tala) 2050 Ga ZV JI dead ly geal oad) 3d) Lin ai Ladd] le Biol Ce pian  LIU 35 5 Lala Ge 515 dopadlly pLaaa¥) Ge Guise a3 UESNI gaan of Je 3,083 TUL  PA A EP Undio¥ly ER Jal Gi OL PA CEE Jie isla!  Ald! 153015 alias ABI peat) JMS lal Tasasigd Ly Talia pled] Slams dS pad y le  EE RCI CAES py PU  Le Joyal wlaboal ga SI als Lei Jai quais al api y 13S a JI IL, VOS  TEA cual aly, Vc pYOV pi, payloads) Gulall slic] Subd] Lp payly Lpuals Loses  Olalall Jal ay cha Lutin | LES SAA) = UL Lalli alaboad) Lads pas UNIV pe Le page Que pl olliS  ob 300s) Tend) Las SN LA TU SAN of A5 3150 Th s à) Glia Ge slacl Jyally daa  Gela Le pe Gay als Date "duiSed ly LI INT pant) JA sla aid cls 855 0/00 ud  JULY! mile Las xs Ge GT A) sal 13a a sassy all Alaa) eden] peaaty Glas las Loli licass  pi] na slg sania lag Jalse pop culs Ge JU Lol Linda II wlaball Glaaly cas yall  pd EUW PRUL J RO PIV CPN PCT] J OT | DN J PROV CCH DI PSOE 5 puis pas Las pi BURNET  Aa guols YVCTTPO, | DEVS ORY FRC ps) is Gui SRUV. ps1] LOST YW 9
290   Ukis has of aps Gal 9) Lad) puis) Loss pall suis” ABH atoll JIM le ells Galas, Yoo  gb yddl JMS Ge 3i35 ly Lea, Y SR Zi pans Glail) Wadi Ge 1500 dass aby oH pl  ob rad) Jedi Tapadl 552 5all rd Ulta lis 505 Une sLSL 5uSitl) pe Aaa od sual] UE J yl  Sais al Lilaal p ais LS Lad) S05all Gd ol Liab) Jlas Tatas ol jaal) agde) 5S 0 sll Sind)  asia) es Uasally Hla! syle gel will Syd Vs gl yaall Gady Lil yaad! SUN olga Talal! ga  Lada Lulu I ob Aland! Sahil] Ga sally Saas 3500 Llaly (0/00, V5 9 oa NOW I) YY ou  stall = l3 Jyadl y LIEU oa Goutal elld ps oF le (Lusiad all a,lsd) le BAL  YVeY0 py HILAL SS bag died] puy alll a GEA SOB) atoll JEU dy Ye,  eld! ponds Gl 3h Le Luis Lali Coad) Lai 5 JLaSY 1 plod) pres Sl Jlaall Taal, NOV  Shady Land Tals SLs) LSLAII @¥lasy) clés pais Fais Lad Gall gaydl Taalye Ge Lsliully  Saeaatll p30 of Jal LS alas Joa) sla?) agen Lakill spgal plasdl Loads, Tall) lady  SLUIL Lisa Loans Jali of sales alga slacks palall bland) 3a aie Loaalsy) eladisll pe je,  ala LE Yl  Liesl Legal pled) Toads Je Tage Silom Lie 55 puulully qua lil lassi Jf oY lll GIS 131 Yo, A  Josh a HS Lindl Slag) psy opualall pall Tot) ESS ppd 5 daadid] Jal] ods 5 spl  JS pean alld of ges) Lala re Luisly Ltd) Tall Visas y La 555 Gala | SEI Lill Le 58,300 pe sliael  gh OY) Gola aay pad) Galad i gS! plead of pola] tl JAI Wasnt Jlaay S53  Udo) GK GU Ladad! a Lali LAS 5 Usa Jf IRAN ola Ulu, saga sb AIS GS, Sasl) le SLAG  ole PAIN 5a3a5 alas Lula) lsh cp 55 Ha3ll Vip) Vs luJ 3,500) caslS 131 La Ubi, dl 03a pads  oasll ada pl aladl 53a) pray ob ola aay pli) bile cI cupdy (Aladly addi] Css  Sa¥ ly edad) G iad Gash le Lalas] SSI sadly Jo cola l,is¥) ells cul plall sin Ga Aa FA sedis Lad  oS el ylsaJl go Hlsall Gadas ob Ubages PLU Lakin) adel Jud (3 oa LIST laque Gaoladl Jaa lees gral lal)  wml yldall cas + Gd ll gall 134) els sa gill Jas) le PSI el ol) pa] pas  NE TOVLRERVIL lg SCT VRE PPV EU TJ i: PR) YL Ss SUCTION IO JX TPR CI  Slat Gai pay dad Go scant (Uy Ul cn SU ga) Ge M Shall SAIS ay 31 Ald] pala,  Lil pl ox spl) puke U glass pb Lal oy co 81 ald eld db Lassa) mead) Jens i bd gui) prasad]  pans leaps Sal Goa ll Lili ghare cre Wiosity Landal] oluadll ands Ga road] eld RG  Jak) Ula cil8 aly Judd! pablo Lili 5 LAS y BY, cialill Gay Anna Lia pd 338500 £5 ea  Aaolas¥) pail) pans le slid otal oi, SI  asa ui ay eliae¥l Joo) on GplGIL Gp ghe Walla; oll a Lindl ain plas ole ple JS, Yo, 0.  gaat Les pd] Goodall GS Tsladind 3, ea Sata aS Lab lily pod) Gudasd os oY Laka
555 of Jelly cilaa] Ge dy Gal Le UIGY 0,38 JU (3) prlaali Cand [asia by Léhe Tag sall Cosa]  Aaah) La 3La5 Jal) 13a a SV JUS al) saga  clan i LS asl pas Copal) Umea ob Saal] Topadl GAY Uys of eyes 5Ml gam NON  Ayal) gas oad JT olalis 5 aly add) paul] alia Jui Ge Lagliay Gun pies UGS Sy aladly LS  Toad) ada slash Gus La 355000 HS GYM ada db lel ad) Ge aps JL call 55 Sans yd epsslies ligue y  sal Wala UN LUS NAS Hiatal Fol Ls Le epamail ¥ JBL Jar le Lia 5555 Lait  A La) Laas alias) JI sais oF canal) Ga lady aarp dh SAYS y ol, 5500 glace Gre peas Ta
291   ploill Loads cles pére y bad laden (Lal AAVO ple i JA. mils of aay VAAL alld pled] ZI a  Lin) say clad pled) padell) Gujlan celal) Tal jay Jaa) pans (BIG A pudly OLIS plaidly (sys  HAS pals gs Guat slate) Luols U gl Lsalas¥) Gl) pales pales) HAT, (JULY Gals; sushi] 355s  La) ante abipdly oladdls ald 3,05 lial ule] lust ti sa MI Toad) ol ld Sante LMI wld)
(35.1) M. AL MADFA (Emirats arabes unis) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Messieurs les chefs et les membres des délégations, je  vous transmets les salutations du Président, du gouvernement et du peuple des Emirats arabes unis, en vous  souhaitant à vous tous, à l'UNESCO et à sa vingt-sixième Conférence générale, plein succès, I] m'est agréable,  tout d'abord, d'exprimer ma gratitude à M. Anwar Ibrahim, président de la dernière session ordinaire de la  Conférence générale et à tous ceux qui ont participé à ses travaux, et d'exprimer tous mes voeux de succès à  M. Ogot, président de la présente session.
(35.2) Etant donné l'aggravation des dangers qui guettent l'humanité, celle-ci a de plus en plus besoin de les  prévenir et de se prémunir contre leurs conséquences. D'où la nécessité impérieuse de la paix comme voie du  salut et comme refuge, et l'importance de la responsabilité qui incombe à cette Organisation - celle de diriger le  dialogue entre les diverses cultures afin de parvenir à une cuiture et une civilisation de paix.
(35.3) Si nous considérons le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, nous constatons que tous ses  éléments convergent dans un courant principal qui alimente ce dialogue et le dirige vers l'objectif voulu. Si  l'austérité et la politique de rationalisation ont poussé l'UNESCO à réduire certains programmes et activités dans  les champs majeurs de programme, cela n'a cependant pas empêché de maintenir la part consacrée à l'exécution  du programme à 76 % du budget de l'Organisation pour cet exercice financier. Certaines activités bénéficient  même de davantage d'attention et de crédits que durant l'exercice précédent, comme le programme concernant  l'éducation de base pour tous, dans le champ majeur de programme I, ou les activités ayant trait à l'enseignement  universitaire et à la recherche dans le domaine des sciences fondamentales et des sciences de l'ingénieur, dans le  cadre du champ majeur de programme Il, ou encore le patrimoine mondial dans le champ majeur de  programme HI.
(35.4) Quant aux orientations et aux priorités des programmes, il apparaît effectivement qu'elles répondent  dans une large mesure aux besoins des Etats membres, tels que les ont identifiés les membres du Conseil exécutif  dans leur décision 135 EX/4.1. De même, l'Organisation a fait un choix judicieux en axant une série d'activités  sur la satisfaction des besoins des trois catégories les plus prioritaires que sont les pays les moins avancés, les  Etats membres de la région Afrique et les femmes. C'est ce que confirme un examen attentif des sept champs  majeurs de programme dans le document 26 C/5. Le champ majeur de programme I "L'éducation et l'avenir” est  caractéristique et exhaustif. Nous l'appuyons, surtout en ce qui concerne la généralisation d'un enseignement  primaire de qualité. Nous voudrions souligner à ce propos que parmi les groupes d'enfants démunis et ayant des  besoins éducatifs spécifiques, il en est qui sont victimes de carences délibérées, qu'il s'agisse de la destruction de  leurs bâtiments scolaires ou de pratiques, qui brisent leurs aspirations éducatives, leur dénient de fait leurs droits  les plus élémentaires et contrecarrent les efforts de l'UNESCO et de l'ensemble des institutions du système des  Nations Unies.
(35.5) Notre appréciation est la même en ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme II "La science pour  le progrès et l'environnement”. Cependant, nous voudrions que la région du Golfe bénéficie, éventuellement lors  de futures sessions, d'une part des activités concernant l'acquisition de connaissances sur l'écorce terrestre, dans le  cadre du Programme international de corrélation géologique, tandis que serait envisagée la création d'une station  de prévision couvrant la région de la péninsule arabique. Nous souhaitons que l'on commence à réfléchir à la  création d'un centre des sciences du désert, soit en Afrique du Nord, soit dans la péninsule arabique. Nous  proposons aussi d'ajouter un point concernant les recherches sur les ressources des régions désertiques et semi-  désertiques, à l'instar du point qui concerne les ressources marines et océaniques (par. 02264 à 02267 du  doc. 26 C/5), et d'ajouter un paragraphe qui traite de la limitation de l'urbanisation dans les environnements  côtiers afin d'en préserver les ressources, ces activités devant être menées de façon coordonnée par l'Organisation  et les Etats concernés.
(35.6) Dans le cadre du champ majeur de programme III "La culture : passé, présent, avenir", nous voudrions  rappeler la résolution 25 C/3.6 concernant la ville sainte de Jérusalem, et nous invitons la Conférence générale à  accorder à cette question le soutien et l'intérêt qu'elle mérite.
(35.7) Concernant le champ majeur de programme IV "La communication au service de l'humanité", nous  apprécions que le Projet de programme et de budget envisage l'examen de la situation actuelle concernant les  tarifs des télécommunications, surtout dans les pays en développement. Nous souhaitons que les efforts de  l'Organisation et ceux de I'TUT soient couronnés de succès. Nous espérons aussi que l'UNESCO coordonnera son  action et coopérera avec les organisations régionales pour ce qui est des activités de mise au point de matériels  didactiques et de moyens audiovisuels dans les différentes régions.
(35.8) Si les champs majeurs de programme V et VI traitent de questions importantes, telles que le  développement des ressources humaines, la sensibilisation du public au rôle de la réflexion philosophique dans la  compréhension des problématiques majeures de notre monde contemporain et le soutien des organismes  concernés dans les Etats membres, tout en concentrant les efforts sur les trois groupes cibles susmentionnés, en  particulier les jeunes et les femmes, nous estimons que cela renforce de manière efficace les activités du champ  majeur de programme VII. La contribution de 'UNESCO à la paix, aux droits de l'homme et à l'élimination de  toutes les formes de discrimination constitue la quintessence de la mission de cette Organisation. Comme nous  l'avons dit brièvement au début, toutes les activités sont au service de cette noble mission. Si la dernière session  de cette conférence a coïncidé avec la réalisation de progrès vers la consolidation de la paix aux niveaux régional  et mondial et avec les premiers signes d'un apaisement des crises dans certains foyers de tension, la présente  session se déroule aussi à Un moment où l'on voit s'accentuer ces mesures d'apaisement et de détente, et même se  produire des changements qui ont une incidence positive sur l'établissement de la paix et de la sécurité  mondiales, ce qui facilite l'accomplissement par cette Organisation de sa tâche de promotion du dialogue entre les  civilisations afin que règne une paix fondée sur la justice, produit de ce dialogue constructif des civilisations.
(35.9) Mais je me dois de mentionner, avec beaucoup de douleur et d'amertume, le sombre épisode qui a  entaché cette période et qui a failli emporter la paix mondiale dans la tourmente : l'invasion brutale par l'Irak de  l'Etat pacifique du Koweït, qui, dans le cadre d'un plan prémédité, non seulement a paralysé le processus éducatif  dans ce pays tranquille, mais aussi a voulu effacer l'identité nationale et culturelle de son peuple, en détruisant et  en vidant de leur contenu les établissements d'enseignement, en incendiant et mettant à sac les bibliothèques, en  détruisant les installations de technologique éducative et en pillant musées et monuments. En bref nous pouvons  dire que le but poursuivi était de tuer la pensée, d'enterrer la. civilisation et d'annihiler toutes les valeurs  humaines.
(35.10) D'une manière générale, le succès de cette Organisation dans l'accomplissement de sa mission dépend  de la coopération entre les Etats membres et est lié aux efforts de l'organisation mère pour instaurer la paix. Aussi  réaffirmons-nous la nécessité de rétablir tous les droits légitimes de tous les peuples qui en sont privés, à  commencer par le peuple palestinien qui attend depuis longtemps que cesse l'injustice dont il est victime. Nous  espérons que les efforts actuellement déployés à cet effet aboutiront aux résultats escomptés.
(35.11) Monsieur le Président, l'Etat des Emirats arabes unis, dans ses efforts inlassables pour moderniser ses  plans dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, sous la direction et la supervision de  S. A. le Cheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nehyan, chef de l'Etat, et s'inspirant des principes de l'UNESCO, a pris de  nombreuses mesures dans ces domaines depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale. Nous citerons, à  titre d'exemples : la poursuite de la campagne générale d'alphabétisation, avec l'appui du Conseil des ministres et  toutes les autorités officielles - il convient de signaler à ce propos que le taux d'analphabétisme est tombé à  environ 21 % en 1990 alors qu'il atteignait 90 % en 1975 ; la poursuite des plans et projets de développement du  secteur rural et du secteur féminin ; la généralisation de l'introduction et de l'apprentissage de l'informatique dans  les écoles publiques ; l'amorce de la création d'un centre pour le développement des écoles maternelles, et d'un  autre pour la promotion de l'enseignement de la langue anglaise; la décision d'appliquer le programme  d'enseignement de base aux étudiants de l'Université des Emirats arabes unis ; le rétablissement du ministère de  la jeunesse et du sport ; la création d'un ministère de l'enseignement supérieur, dont la mise en place des
293   structures est en voie d'achèvement ; la création de différents centres de recherche scientifique, tel le centre de  recherches sur le désert et l'environnement marin à l'Université des Emirats ; la création dans la même université  d'un centre international spécialisé dans les plantes qui supportent un degré élevé de salinité ; l'intensification des  programmes de découverte, de protection et de restauration des monuments archéologiques sur tout le territoire  de l'Etat, avec le concours d'experts internationaux, dont des experts de l'UNESCO ; l'accueil par les organismes  des Emirats d'un certain nombre d'activités des organisations régionales, notamment un séminaire sur la culture  en tant qu'expression, un séminaire sur le droit d'auteur et une conférence internationale sur les plantes et la forte  salinité ; la contribution de l'Etat des Emirats arabes unis au projet de l'UNESCO pour la renaissance de la  Bibliothèque d'Alexandrie.
(35.12) Ces exemples confirment sans doute la justesse des orientations et la volonté d'oeuvrer dans le cadre  tracé par cette Organisation digne d'estime.
(35.13) Enfin, je ne saurais manquer de renouveler mes remerciements et l'expression de ma reconnaissance à  tous les services de l'UNESCO et d'abord à son Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, ainsi qu'à tous les  membres de sa direction, au Président et aux membres du Conseil exécutif, au Secrétariat de l'Organisation et à  tous ses fonctionnaires - spécialistes, administrateurs, techniciens - pour tout ce qu'ils ont fait et font au service de  l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. Merci.
36. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Emirats arabes unis. Je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Didi Ould  Bounamaa, ministre de la culture et de l'orientation islamique, chef de la délégation de la Mauritanie.  (Lal yaa) Lalas gs aly saad] YY,  (siaiand] Gudall Guts saad | usd Hl) sd) A) pue le psbadly ideally psa Ji Gram sd) A) py  pals pando A aa ee banad ls Ssbad) Lal casdadl slidely sland, Salas ly ladl Qloal pled] saath sad)  dad! pled) lin pa Hlaa 58 La Lad DS of Jaa Loayd ail oly dail, sl) Tata Lo) saad)  le wsial Haast AF Lai AA paish of J cooley LS gSunpd) Loading oa 3) palddl Alay  ole LAB AA gaa sad 00S SGI dale Us JMS puis Gl Gon Gnd Aad (ly gg d add Lud, lass  FY) lal db 555 JI seat] Lull) gly paladl Glle 7,6 ob Loluall TGS] Uap) ain 5La|  Gull, 5538 Wik mall clio Taal sagen Sle Gotaadly Luce OI 3, 0d) Gul; paalsal 5931 0384  plat] Land  (SHHAI pulall foal Liste Union a Al) Sand) plally dal) spall of puioll gana YV,Y  ele] Salud @iadinll Gulall Guat; le oan dal) SUSI SSA] dla coalsdl Ga Jaad Laladl 350070,  Lushs Jape Lal pall susp Judi spe ob spt (SAIS Lakinal) pladl pdf Haale St pad add Jy caalas  eG) lal) Jaadly pré pa  aaa ALES 5 ale pled) 5550 LES GAS Al Lolo 5 Gotu] Log spl of puis] (gine YYLY  Lal ols de sladll TALLY Lalas sl a clan Li MAS Jai y pad | Glad] y Lis sd] goons Je jada  LW gas Lali 3,050 wt] Lal) WRI Jad) opm lS sft] nid fied lll ils Hall sind) les Jos  ler 3b Al Lal sal Su a 3300a © ads Le Vins day JaST le Lgiages pladll Jilusd! JS Laas 5  Sait?) lasa 5 ST agen Liles SLE piles y Taal gas Joa ei JS Ad) spall Oly opin 30a Ll  JULY ala] Mail bs dos pd Le Gl Bia Bilas] ell alah] (aifses lb Ga ST Ge Gauss 31 Au, ully  AU Le guyadl see le Lb 105 od 31 JLa¥) sins inte Taa¥l ols Hire Tacuba) Las all Gash oe  Gale Lipa) cling) pa Golesi oF) hais paras] Las if doa Gta pe adds ob Jlai JS hs Lol 08 7 LA  Glia Gaadad) Lith y Und puny J) days 3 puatns Ugh palin  unt; phllad] taal save us Tsglae anal Lalas Lely ley slt y nbs Ga Bla gut dl ud] YY, E  geo dal oe ad Glally play) wlSle ais, Glle pats suey Jud) ga pLaa¥l al) 52500 ob (yu  lage Louk le das) aid opdally 33adly paisll lly ob play (Il Gp EM) oud pda) Caps ob pally ducal  psa wlll Gali ales dia Lobasss pay] le Gall Glhlyhiad] due stat Teale pul puny  Sle Tusa JS publi lal Tae oF da J) conn 155 Lala, pe AU nally oppall 5,5 13S, VAE/AY/AY
03a pe (ahaill Gadall Là Ws sade 3500 iis ad) Lilas gd Leeda! Lj ppandl Of ound) gina TV, A  Laas Gaile A Lod SHS "paisa alle a Sadpad] 598” Joa Taste Lal pu i Tag pelle IN a RSS  oi alld] ag gs pis Lakin Js of dal ce pedals Lage Lead dad) deals of sa 53) (Gusdd cle]  Saath) pall Lalita pe shaue leg Sid Jlall
2ST a iat ell Sa] Tas 588 Last) Le gsgaall of Sat of a2 PLAN 1 025 I (pass VA  A [planes 1 IS 5 Lu zd8 IF as Ji JS aa pd Le GL Vaisie âne Sci pal) cilaly Ja cp EMI  dt cilaa) of Saad Gu Gad BIS LAS A Lhe mal 3 dh yl Sy sâ se Us JS aad pd Lay (@aiY ly Sand!  ian poil : Jui cassis all ls allt coLp3¥) V1 all Juas Ÿ Lisle bass Mis Luba) Giles Unoiil Ladfand  JUL! Gaia pol LIL Cinaes ll wl paiill JE Gh Jags V Gale put ll gam old) gis od 5) deal!  ob aly Talay Gal idly Lala) cond) 8 dasdly pled] i Liksd] Gay ordeals lay Eady slay  AS pa AT Las 5,5 pate pally pH y GEAY Ey Liga
(37.1) M. OULD BOUNAMAA (Mauritanie) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Messieurs les chefs et les membres des délégations, Mesdames, Messieurs, j'ai le plaisir de vous saluer au nom  de la République islamique de Mauritanie et de souhaiter à notre Conférence qu'elle constitue une pierre blanche  du monument scientifique et humain que représente notre Organisation, l'UNESCO. Je voudrais aussi présenter  mes sincères félicitations à M. Ogot pour son élection à la présidence de cette session. Je suis certain que sa  grande expérience et son savoir aideront au mieux l'Organisation à traverser cette période transitoire névralgique  de l'histoire de notre monde moderne. Je voudrais enfin saisir cette Occasion pour remercièr son éminent  prédécesseur, M. Anwar Ibrahim, président de la vingt-cinquième session, pour les efforts méritoires et l'activité  fructueuse qu'il a déployés pendant sa présidence.
(37.2) Monsieur le Président, les efforts intenses et les sages mesures qui sont le résultat digne d'estime de  l'action du Conseil exécutif et de la Direction générale me font un devoir d'adresser mes remerciements et mes
295   éloges à M. Yahya Aliyu, président du Conseil exécutif, et à tous les membres du Conseil, ainsi qu'à M. Federico  Mayor, directeur général de l'Organisation - qui, sous sa direction et grâce à ses efforts persévérants, a bien  progressé sur la voie de la réforme et fait un travail sérieux et constructif.
(37.3) Monsieur le Président, la République islamique de Mauritanie qui s'enorgueillit d'être un centre de  rayonnement scientifique et culturel connu et apprécié en Afrique, dans le monde arabe et dans le monde  islamique, s'est fixé, entre autres, comme priorité de développement l'élimination du fléau de l'analphabétisme  avant la fin de la décennie. Pour réaliser ce noble objectif, elle a été l'un des rares pays à créer un ministère de  l'alphabétisation, qu'elle a doté de tous les moyens pour s'acquitter au mieux de sa mission. Le prix  d'alphabétisation décerné par l'UNESCO à notre pays il y a deux ans en témoigne. Aux efforts déployés dans le  domaine de l'alphabétisation et de l'éducation des adultes correspondent des efforts encore plus grands dans le  domaine de la scolarisation. En effet, notre pays alloue plus du tiers de son budget à l'enseignement, car nous  sommes convaincus que tant que la route de l'ignorance ne sera pas barrée à nos enfants au moyen de l'éducation  de base, le fléau de l'analphabétisme renaîtra avec le renouvellement des générations qui ne trouvent pas de place  à l'école. C'est pourquoi notre pays a participé activement à la Conférence de Jomtien sur l'éducation pour tous et  prépare, en coopération avec les institutions qui ont parrainé cette réunion, l'organisation d'une table ronde qui  aura pour objet d'établir un plan national de mise en oeuvre des décisions de la Conférence.
(37.4) Monsieur le Président, convaincus que la libération de la volonté humaine est seule capable de libérer  les capacités de l'être humain et de faire s'épanouir ses aptitudes créatives de façon qu'il prenne conscience de son  passé et assume son présent, afin de forger l'avenir radieux auquel il rêve, source de progrès, de fierté et de paix,  mon pays et ses dirigeants, avec à leur tête le chef de l'Etat, S. Exc. le colonel Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed Taya, se  sont engagés depuis que Son Excellence a pris les rênes du pouvoir le 12 décembre 1984, à asseoir sur des bases  saines l'exercice d'une véritable démocratie en Mauritanie. C'est ainsi que, grâce à Dieu, nous voyons aujourd'hui  la Mauritanie abriter jusqu'à présent sept partis qui rivalisent en toute liberté pour obtenir la confiance de  l'électeur, de même que nous voyons des dizaines de journaux libres paraître ici ou là, exhalant un parfum de  liberté, se développant sans contrainte et s'exprimant sans crainte dans un climat national libre et honnête que  renforce l'amnistie générale dont ont bénéficié tous les condamnés politiques depuis l'indépendance jusqu'à nos  jours.
(37.5) Monsieur le Président, nous remercions l'UNESCO de son aide précieuse dans de multiples domaines,  tels l'alphabétisation et le développement de la communication et nous voudrions mentionner spécialement la  campagne mondiale pour la sauvegarde des cités historiques mauritaniennes - Chinguetti, Wadam, Walata et  Tichit - qui ont pu ainsi revivre grâce à la sollicitude personnelle du Directeur général. Un des résultats de cette  campagne a été la participation de l'Agence de coopération Toulouse-Midi-Pyrénées que nous remercions d'avoir,  avec l'UNESCO, établi un plan de sauvegarde de la cité historique de Chinguetti. Tout en appréciant ces efforts  généreux, nous souhaitons qu'ils s'amplifient et nous appelons tous les représentants des Etats et des organisations  gouvernementales et non gouvernementales à s'associer à cette grande oeuvre qui a pour but de sauver quatre cités  connues depuis qu'existent des documents écrits comme la mémoire du Sahara et comme des centres d'un  rayonnement qui a atteint la plupart des parties du globe. Que l'humanité s'empresse de sauver de l'ensablement  l'architecture côtière, les manuscrits rares, les coutumes et traditions véritables et les contes merveilleux. Que le  pari sur le salut de l'humanité et sur la sauvegarde de son patrimoine culturel soit notre motivation et notre but  dans la réalisation des nobles objectifs en vue desquels nous avons bâti cette grande maison de la pensée qu'est  l'UNESCO.
(37.6) Monsieur le Président, l'UNESCO a connu ces dernières années beaucoup de changements positifs d'une  importance capitale. Ainsi le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat ont-ils établi une relation de dialogue sérieux et  positif, comme en témoignent la coordination et la complémentarité des documents qui nous ont été soumis, ainsi  que le fait que notre Organisation se dirige d'une démarche assurée vers une nouvelle ère d'efficacité et de  clairvoyance. Dans ce contexte, mon pays apporte son soutien à l'initiative du Japon tendant à accroître l'efficacité  de l'Organisation, tout en soulignant que cette réforme ne saurait porter aucune atteinte à l'esprit des nobles  principes sur lesquels sont fondés l'UNESCO et son Acte constitutif et au principe de l'égalité des Etats membres.
(37.7) L'UNESCO, qui est la maison de l'intellectuel, doit le rester. C'est pourquoi mon pays est intéressé par  la proposition allemande tendant à instituer un forum de réflexion qui apporte une aide intellectuelle aux  différentes instances de l'UNESCO sans les représenter ou prendre la place d'aucune d'entre elles. Il faudrait donc  enrichir cette proposition, l'appuyer et confier la question au Conseil exécutif.
(37.8) Monsieur le Président, la République islamique de Mauritanie, dont le mandat en tant que membre du  Conseil exécutif se termine avec cette session, au moment où celui-ci a entamé une étude approfondie sur le rôle  de l'UNESCO dans un monde en changement à laquelle la Mauritanie a participé aux côtés de cinq autres  membres, espère que ce travail sera poursuivi avec détermination et persévérance afin que notre Organisation  continue à jouer son rôle d'avant-garde dans le domaine de la réflexion au sein du système des Nations Unies.  -
(37.9) Monsieur le Président, en conclusion, je voudrais souligner que la République islamique de Mauritanie  qui a toujours été et restera au nombre des pays les plus résolument attachés aux idéaux et aux objectifs de  l'UNESCO, ne cessera jamais d'être convaincue que tant que chaque enfant ne trouvera pas le chemin de l'école,  chaque mère le chemin de l'emploi et de l'épanouissement, et chaque Etat, petit ou pauvre, la liberté pour son  peuple de faire ses choix, sans discrimination ni injustice, nos nobles objectifs et nos grands idéaux demeureront  des tours d'ivoire auxquelles n'accéderont que les puissants. Il y a là une injustice extrême. On a dit anciennement  “la science est pure ignorance si elle n'est pas partagée”. C'est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, nous ne devons  pas négliger, dans les changements qui affectent le monde d'aujourd'hui, les droits des enfants, des femmes, des  personnes âgées et des habitants de la Palestine et de l'Afrique du Sud au savoir, au travail, à un foyer chaleureux  et à un avenir paisible, en un mot à la liberté, à l'émancipation et à la paix. Merci.
297   lad Lalially gel) page Base Lowliay Ld! Glad] jaan LL Lod pasasad of vois VASE  Ja) Uniugie US Lube 38,1 La) Lawl) LMI Ge ops pideall pled) SLs Zoeuddly Yl VAAT-VARY  SATE ITE PCN] FSA SIUC IR ALES J ENE PIC UCIT IN IR] Sas JET LR LYN]  Nou Ge Vay VE URI se analy 0) Ge Vas EF Lue pill gal yall sae ganali (SSSSSS Gulall aul 0e
(39.1) M. BAHAA EL DINE (Egypte) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Messieurs les membres des  délégations, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais tout d'abord féliciter Monsieur le Président de la confiance que les  délégations lui ont témoignée et de souhaiter à la Conférence plein succès sous sa sage direction. Je voudrais  aussi remercier M. Anwar Ibrahim, président de la vingt-cinquième session de la Conférence générale, des efforts  qu'il a déployés au cours de cette session. J'adresse mes remerciements au Président et aux membres du Conseil  exécutif pour les valeureux efforts qu'ils ont déployés au cours des deux années qui viennent de s'écouler. Je me  dois aussi de remercier M. le Directeur général de l'Organisation et les membres du Secrétariat de ce qu'ils ont  fait pour mettre en oeuvre le Programme et budget du dernier exercice biennal, préparer la Conférence générale et  élaborer le Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain exercice biennal.
(39.2) Mesdames, Messieurs, notre Conférence se réunit à un moment singulier de l'histoire de l'humanité, où  ont lieu dans de nombreux Etats et sociétés des changements fondamentaux qui annoncent de nouvelles  orientations de l'ordre international reposant sur la justice, le droit et la paix, et soutenues, à l'échelon  international, par la ferme volonté de limiter armements et d'éliminer les armes de destruction massive.  Cependant, certaines difficultés continuent à préoccuper la plupart des Etats et des peuples du monde. Ce sont, en  premier lieu, les situations d'oppression, de racisme et d'occupation de territoires par la force, qui aboutissent  inéluctablement à des soulèvements visant à la libération, à la revendication du droit à l'autodétermination et à  l'éradication de l'occupation. En second lieu, il y a les situations de "ni guerre ni paix" ayant des répercussions sur  la paix mondiale et régionale, ce qui oblige la communauté internationale à imposer des solutions pacifiques  justes qui préservent les peuples, garantissent la sécurité et la stabilité et favorisent le développement et le  progrès. En troisième lieu, il y a le problème de l'endettement croissant et de ses incidences sur le  développement, surtout dans les pays en développement, qui mettent en péril l'acquis de ces pays dans les  domaines de l'éducation et de la santé, entre autres. Cette situation exige que tous les Etats du monde fassent  preuve de solidarité en vue d'instaurer un nouvel ordre économique qui permette d'affronter les problèmes de  l'endettement et de l'inflation persistante qui touchent les économies de la plupart des Etats du monde, d'établir un  véritable dialogue Nord-Sud et de favoriser la mise au point de solutions à ces problèmes. En quatrième lieu, il y  a la protection de l'environnement et la préservation des ressources naturelles, revendication mondiale exprimée  par tous les milieux lors des conférences internationales, ce qui impose d'agir pour éliminer la pollution de  l'environnement, assurer le développement durable des ressources naturetles et leur préservation, inventer des  technologies propres et affronter le problème de l'exportation des déchets nocifs et toxiques vers certains pays en  développement. J'espère à ce sujet que l'UNESCO jouera un rôle de premier plan à la Conférence des Nations  Unies sur l'environnement et le développement, qui doit se tenir en juin 1992 au Brésil. I y a enfin la lutte à
299   mener contre les catastrophes naturelles et autres en établissant des programmes et des fonds internationaux, et la  nécessité de concentrer les efforts sur la recherche afin d'en atténuer les risques, ce qui imposera à l'UNESCO une  lourde charge durant la Décennie internationale de la prévention des catastrophes naturelles, proclamée par  l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies.
(39.3) Mesdames, Messieurs, en nous rencontrant à l'occasion de notre Conférence générale, nous devons faire  ressortir le grand rôle de l'UNESCO en tant qu'organisation intellectuelle du système des Nations Unies, et ce  d'autant plus qu'une myriade d'événements déferlent sur le monde, qui se trouve ainsi à un véritable tournant dans  l'histoire des Etats et de leurs idéologies. Aussi incombe-t-il à l'Organisation de continuer à jouer tout son rôle  dans l'action visant à enraciner les valeurs de paix et de compréhension internationale dans l'esprit des hommes, à  raviver l'esprit de coopération internationale et régionale pour résoudre les problèmes de l'humanité, à assurer sa  sécurité au moyen des activités en matière d'éducation, de culture, de science et de communication, à fixer les  règles gouvernant les droits de l'homme et leur exercice et à préserver les libertés fondamentales de la personne  humaine.
(39.4) Je voudrais maintenant, à l'occasion de la présentation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-
1993, passer en revue quelques questions importantes. Premièrement, concernant le cadre général du Projet, la  concentration de la mise en oeuvre des champs majeurs de programme constitue un des principes fondamentaux  sur lesquels repose le troisième Plan à moyen terme de l'Organisation. Le Projet de programme et de budget pour  le prochain exercice biennal maintient cette orientation, qui a reçu l'appui du Conseil exécutif. Aussi, le nombre  de sous-programmes est-il passé de 51 à 43 et celui des actions de programme de 150 à 104. Nous approuvons  cette orientation, car la concentration des activités garantit des résultats tangibles concrétisant ce qui constitue la  raison d'être de l'UNESCO dans les domaines de l'éducation pour tous, du développement culturel global, de la  promotion des projets scientifiques et technologiques, de l'enseignement supérieur, de la recherche scientifique,  de la protection et la préservation de l'environnement, du développement durable des ressources naturelles, ainsi  que dans la promotion des projets en matière d'information, de communication, d'études prospectives et de  stratégies de développement, compte tenu de la nécessité, lors de la préparation du Programme et budget  constituant la troisième tranche du Plan, de compléter les autres programmes et activités.
(39.5) Deuxièmement, pour ce qui est de la répartition des activités et des projets entre les régions, la tendance  à la décentralisation des activités et de la gestion a été et reste, sans nul doute, une revendication pressante des  Etats membres. Toutefois, en lisant le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1992-1993, on peut constater qu'il  exclut la région arabe de nombreuses activités, comme par exemple celles qui ont trait au développement de  l'enfant (par. 01144), à l'éducation préventive (par. 01221), à la promotion de la recherche en chimie (par. 02118)  ou à la vulgarisation scientifique et technologique (par. 02305). Il faudrait donc prendre soin d'ajouter les pays  arabes à la liste des régions appelées à bénéficier de ces activités, entre autres. Il faudrait aussi soutenir les  bureaux régionaux et accroître leur rôle dans la mise en oeuvre des programmes, étant entendu qu'ils coopèrent  avec les commissions nationales et l'élaboration et à la mise en oeuvre du Projet de programme et de budget  conformément aux recommandations de la seizième Conférence régionale des secrétaires des commissions  nationales arabes pour l'UNESCO, qui s'est tenue au Caire en novembre 1990.
(39.6) Troisièmement, concernant l'éducation, le suivi des résultats de la Déclaration mondiale sur l'éducation  pour tous (Jomtien, mars 1990) est une des tâches majeures de l'Organisation, car il s'agit d'atteindre les objectifs  énoncés par cette déclaration et de parachever les efforts de l'UNESCO à cet effet. Nous sommes d'accord pour  que l'UNESCO s'oriente vers l'organisation de tables rondes nationales, pour participer à la formulation et au  développement des politiques nationales dans ces domaines, réunions qui seront suivies d'autres tables rondes  réunissant les organisations et institutions qui ont participé à la Conférence de Jomtien et d'autres organismes de  financement, pour aider à réunir les fonds nécessaires aux campagnes de généralisation de l'enseignement  primaire et aux campagnes d'alphabétisation. Une fructueuse table ronde a été organisée au Caire en collaboration  avec le Bureau régional d'éducation pour les Etats arabes (UNEDBAS). Je dois souligner ici les efforts déployés  par l'Organisation dans les domaines de la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, de la généralisation d'un enseignement  primaire de qualité, du renouvellement du contenu et des méthodes de l'éducation, de la promotion et de  l'amélioration de l'enseignement supérieur, et surtout de l'action visant à encourager les jumelages entre  universités et à promouvoir l'éducation à vocation internationale, notamment au niveau de l'enseignement  supérieur, les politiques éducatives et l'innovation éducative.
(39.7) Nous voudrions insister sur le projet intersectoriel intitulé "Le jeune enfant et le milieu familial". En  effet, l'intégration des services fournis aux enfants est, pour les pays en développement, le seul moyen permettant  de combler l'écart de civilisation qui les sépare du monde développé. Elle est certainement le pilier essentiel de la  réforme économique et de la paix sociale, qui constituent un objectif fondamental à ce stade crucial de l'histoire  de notre pays.
(39.8) Nous appuyons en outre l'adoption du projet de convention universelle sur la reconnaissance des études  et des titres de l'enseignement supérieur, aboutissement des six conventions régionales qui facilitent la mobilité  des étudiants, des chercheurs, des professionnels et des membres des personnels de l'éducation, ce qui
300   renforcerait la coopération internationale et l'échange de données d'expérience au niveau mondial. A ce sujet,  nous exhortons le Directeur général à faire le nécessaire pour soutenir les bureaux régionaux de l'UNESCO dans  les pays arabes, à savoir le Bureau régional d'éducation (UNEDBAS), le Bureau régional de science et de  technologie (ROSTAS) et l'Unité de coordination du Programme d'innovation éducative (EIPDAS). Il va sans dire  qu'il faut insister sur la nécessité de garantir le droit à l'enseignement et à l'éducation nationale des populations  arabes dans les territoires arabes occupés et de préserver l'identité culturelle du peuple palestinien. Nous saluons  la lutte de ce peuple courageux pour faire valoir son droit à l'autodétermination et récupérer ses territoires.
(39.9) Quatrièmement, dans le domaine de la culture, les activités de la Décennie mondiale pour le  développement culturel représentent un tournant dans la mise en évidence du rôle de la culture dans le  développement global, l'affirmation et l'enrichissement des identités culturelles et le soutien des grands projets  culturels mondiaux, à savoir les projets concernant la renaissance de la Bibliothèque d'Alexandrie, les Routes de  la soie, la Commémoration du cinquième centenaire de la rencontre de deux mondes. Quant à la création d'un  programme international pour la Décennie, nous proposons de retenir la quatrième option -création du  programme sur une base expérimentale pour l'exercice 1992-1993, étant entendu que la question de savoir s'il doit  être poursuivi sera tranchée à la lumière des résultats obtenus. Nous voudrions ici saluer les efforts déployés par  l'UNESCO pour préserver le patrimoine culturel de Jérusalem, et appeler le Directeur général à poursuivre son  action afin que soient prises les mesures nécessaires pour préserver les lieux saints et leurs caractéristiques, et  tout particulièrement la mosquée Al-Agsa. Nous remercions M. le Directeur général d'avoir envisagé le projet de  "Plan de développement de la culture arabe".
(39.10) Cinquièmement, concernant la science et la technologie, il est reconnu que l'Organisation joue un rôle  important dans l'action visant à réduire l'écart entre les pays développés, qui bénéficient des grands progrès de la  science, et les pays en développement, en retard dans ce domaine ; il convient aussi de mentionner son rôle dans  l'interaction des réalisations scientifiques dans le monde et des cultures, et dans le développement de la  connaissance mutuelle entre les peuples, qui favorise la paix, la compréhension internationale et le respect des  droits de l'homme.
(39,11) Sixièmement, concemant la communication et les systèmes d'information, l'Organisation joue aussi un  rôle important dans l'action visant à rapprocher les idées et les réalisations de l'intelligence humaine et à  promouvoir l'échange libre et équilibré des connaissances sans porter atteinte aux identités culturelles des  peuples, tout en renforçant les capacités et les moyens des Etats membres dans les domaines de la communication  et des systèmes d'information. À ce propos, nous invitons le Directeur général à soutenir le réseau d'information  que met en place la Fédération des universités arabes et à faciliter le raccordement des réseaux d'information de  la région arabe au réseau d'information de l'enseignement supérieur mis en place par l'Association internationale  des universités sous le nom de "Trace".
(39.12) Je tiens à remercier le Directeur général de l'intérêt porté, dans le Projet de programme et de budget, au  programme "Priorité Afrique" et au renforcement de ce dernier dans une grande partie des activités dont a besoin  le continent africain, et en particulier les pays les moins avancés de ce continent. En conclusion, je vous remercie  tous de votre attention, et j'exprime mes meilleurs voeux de succès à notre conférence.
40. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Egypt, and I now give the floor to the Hon. Ram Hari Joshi  Minister of Education, Culture and Tourism and head of the delegation of Nepal.
41.1 Mr JOSHI (Nepal):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  it is a great honour for me to address the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference of UNESCO in the  presence of the distinguished delegates of all the member nations. On behalf of the members of the Nepalese  delegation and myself, I extend to Mr Ogot congratulations on his election to the presidency of the Conference.  I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to you, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity to address  the Conference and touch upon the issues of common interest to us all.
41.2 — During the two years since the twenty-fifth session, the international political scene has assumed a new  dimension. People's democratic aspirations have trrumphed everywhere and momentum has been established  for the restoration of human rights and democratic processes in areas where people's fervent wishes are yet to  be honoured. Mr President, it gives me the greatest pleasure to be able to state before this august gathering that  we in Nepal also successfully brought about the revolution for the restoration of democracy in April 1990, and  thereby established a multi-party parliamentary political system,
41.3 While expressing justifiable pride in the advent of democracy in our country, we also realize that  sustaining the democratic process in a society with meagre resources and weak educational and scientific
301   support base is fraught with challenges. Therefore, we look upon our friendly countries and international  organizations like UNESCO for increased support to strengthen democratic institutions in Nepal through a  better system of education and skill development programmes.
41.4 Mr President, before turning to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, I would like to say a  few words about the state of education, science, culture and communication in Nepal - the areas of primary  concern for UNESCO on the global scale. Nepal has a rich cultural heritage symbolized by traditional crafts of  wood carving, stone engraving and metal-work - all of which have found living expressions in ancient temples  and monuments all over the country. At this point we, the Nepalese, must express our sincerest gratitude to  UNESCO for the contributions it has made to the renovation and reconstruction work of some of our temples,  palaces and objects which are of immense cultural value for the entire world.
41.5 Nepal's education sector needs a new thrust. Because of the liberal arts base of our present education,  science and technology have not been effectively integrated in the school system. As a result, we are facing the  problems of educated unemployment on the one hand and a penury of essential skills on the other. The present  government formed by the Nepali Congress Party has therefore accorded high priority to the revamping of all  aspects of education in the country.
416 Communication media constitute yet another area of stilted growth in Nepal. The present literacy rate  of about 36 per cent bars a large number of people from enjoying the benefits of the print media. The national  television and radio networks lack sufficient software and programme skills. But as in education and science,  there is a strong determination in the Nepalese media to fulfil the information needs of the future.
41.7 This brief description of education, science and the media announces a bleak prospect ahead for the  country's democratic institutions. We are seriously lacking in material and physical resources to support these  programmes. We therefore seek assistance from international organizations such as UNESCO, other United  Nations and multilateral agencies, and friendly countries. I would also like to take this opportunity to express  Nepal's sincere appreciation and gratitude for the help and support we have been receiving from UNESCO for  strengthening education, science, communication and environmental protection programmes in Nepal.
418 Mr President, Nepal appreciates the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 submitted to the  General Conference. The draft plan has adopted in good spirit the themes and priorities identified for UNESCO  in the third Medium-Term Plan (1990-1995), which stresses the need for more concerted efforts in promoting  peace, development and protection of the environment for the benefit of all mankind, I am confident that the  distinguished delegates gathered here would agree that the prospect for peace as the overriding concern of the  modern era has been greatly enhanced by the recent upsurge of people's power in many parts of the world.
41.9 Nepal as a member of the group of least developed countries (LDCs) fully endorses the destgnation of  the LDCs, the countries of the Africa region and women as three categories of special beneficiaries and hopes  that their 'urgent expectations’ will indeed be met under the suggested plan of action.
41.10 Nepal continues to attach great importance to the possible role of UNESCO in promoting better  understanding among the member countries, interregional and intraregional groupings of nations and the  scholars, scientists and cultural personalities in the world.
41.11 Mr President, it is encouraging to note that UNESCO has recently been striving to overcome certain  organizational impediments and streamline its activities. This process, we hope, will culminate in bringing  back to UNESCO's fold those Member States which had withdrawn their membership from the Organization.  The world today needs greater involvement and commitment on the part of all countries to eradicate the  scourges of ignorance, illiteracy and environmental degradation. My delegation sincerely wishes UNESCO,  under the able stewardship of Director-General Mayor, every success in effectively implementing the activities  proposed under the programme for 1992-1993.
41.12 For Nepal, Major Programme Area I, which addresses the issue of education and the future, is of the  greatest significance because our goal is ‘basic education for all by the turn of this century’. Besides regular  education for school-age children. Nepal has also emphasized programmes for combating illiteracy among out-  of-school population, imparting functional skills for rural girls and women, and adults living in remote areas.  In pursuance of this goal, Nepal has been providing free education to all primary-school children and free
302   textbooks to all up to grade 3. The country aims at providing free secondary education - gradually - in the years  to come.
41.13 Major Programme Area II proposes to channelize science for progress and environmental protection.  Nepal certainly wishes to harness modern science, not only to advance its national interest but also for the  benefit of its regional neighbours. In relating science to the environment, it is important to realize that Nepal  occupies an important place in this regard because the great Himalayas which straddle its northern borders  have a direct influence on the climate and ecology of the entire Indian subcontinent in the south and the  Tibetan plateau of China in the north. We therefore hope that UNESCO will continue its support for  programmes of environmental protection in the Himalayan areas.
41.14 Nepal would also like to participate fully in Major Programme Area III, which deals with culture, and  the World Decade for Cultural Development. The Kathmandu Valley, the capital of Nepal, has already been  declared part of the cultural heritage of mankind for its ancient temple art and traditional skills in wood, stone  and metal carvings. Lumbini, the birthplace of Lord Buddha, is being developed as an international cultural  centre and place of pilgrimage, for which the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies have made  significant contributions.
41.15 Since Lord Buddha is the symbol of peace and non-violence for the whole world, Mr President, I take  this opportunity to appeal to the General Conference to declare Lumbini as one of the world cultural heritage  sites and set up a committee for research on Lumbini and Kapilbastu, the capital of Buddha's father's kingdom.  Furthermore, the ancient Nepalese arts such as the traditional Newari dances, music and musical instruments  and old scripts are vanishing fast. I therefore strongly appeal to the General Conference to provide the means  for preserving these living arts.
41.16 All the other programmes, as covered under Major Programme Areas V-VII, dealing with the  promotion of peace and human rights, and the elimination of all forms of discrimination, are highly welcome.
41.17 Mr President, allow me, as I conclude, to express optimism for the success and effective  implementation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993.
41.18 Let me say, too, that we are extremely happy with the admission to UNESCO of the three Baltic  Republics, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. Our hearty welcome to them as they join the UNESCO family.
41.19 We all work for the strengthening of conditions that guarantee peace and understanding. Once the  cloud of distrust is removed, the resources released for peaceful pursuits must meet the requirements of the  united world. We earnestly hope the new international order will indeed promote the conditions for enduring  peace.
41.20 Finally, we appreciate the plan prepared by the Director-General and his team and congratulate them  on the successful holding of the Conference. Thank you.
42. Le PRESIDENT :  Certaines délégations souhaitant faire usage de leur droit de réponse, je voudrais tout d'abord donner la  parole à la délégation de la Yougoslavie, pour trois minutes. Merci.
43. M. PAVLOVIC (Yougoslavie) :  Monsieur le Président, dans son intervention cet après-midi, le chef de la délégation du Saint-Siège,  S. Exc. Mgr. Lorenzo Antonetti, s'est référé au conflit armé dans mon pays et a notamment déclaré : "Dans  plusieurs villes et villages, des monuments internationalement connus et d'autres particulièrement importants  pour la vie de la communauté chrétienne ont été détruits ou gravement endommagés." À ce propos, je tiens à  dire qu'aucun monument internationalement connu n'est détruit et que, dans un flot d'informations non fondées,  le chef de la délégation du Saint-Siège a fait un choix malheureux pour présenter ses affirmations. Je tiens à  rappeler ici, Monsieur le Président, que le chef de la délégation de la Yougoslavie, Mme Kiprijanova, a  exprimé hier ses remerciements au Directeur général et au Conseil exécutif de l'UNESCO pour les appels qu'ils  ont lancés, dans lesquels étaient invoquées les dispositions de la Convention de La Haye et de la Convention  concernant la protection du patrimoine mondial culturel et naturel. En outre, le gouvernement fédéral de mon  pays, ainsi que les autorités compétentes locales, font tout pour préserver les biens et monuments historiques et  culturels des dangers que peuvent comporter les conflits armés. Enfin, je tiens à vous informer que
303   l'ambassadeur de la Yougoslavie auprès de l'UNESCO, M. Cicanovic, est en train d'examiner avec le Directeur  général de l'UNESCO les dispositions à prendre afin qu'une mission de l'UNESCO puisse se rendre en  Yougoslavie pour évaluer sur place de la situation. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
44. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué de la Yougoslavie. Je donne la parole maintenant, pour un droit de réponse de  trois minutes, au délégué de l'Irak, Merci.  (Gloadl) ass sai £0,  sail) Vin pashan Ÿ Gulf yâes a Lady UL las le spl) A) ui oF Sle (opal Toa Ga  à Bas Le dal 155 dail) ada a Taaly Waal partic ans OU Suis sad) pula Taund 5d Gaidly  elaged | Galall] Gly Aaa 50Ÿ0 33001 lsd sleasual (A shige) Glall) of Jolly LaSloadl otage RAS  Wl! le gusdll i ob lose] Tadallly (Gloal) sb aoe sly saat) LS ond) elated) Blas! 4 a  Lalad) Jlgal¥) suid ob Ay Lalpally oS sal) pasta 5alg¥ 132i Jasiadl Sled plans y ely ¥1 Jos  Ail pas Jaks Aussi) Soma! Jokaas Ge Lely Glad] pad adtialy @olsall fLaE1 SLi lyin le
(45.1) M. HAIDAR (Irak) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Nous sommes au regret de devoir une fois de plus exercer notre droit de réponse face aux attaques  injustes et à l'impudence de certains, qui n'ont aucun respect pour cette enceinte et qui, si on leur appliquait les  critères de l'UNESCO, ne devraient pas demeurer une minute de plus dans cette Organisation. D'aucuns parlent à  propos de l'Irak d'un "sombre épisode" ; nous disons que le sombre épisode est celui qui a consisté à faire appel  aux forces d'invasion américaine, à accueillir l'aviation israélienne pour qu'elle détruise un pays arabe - l'Irak - à  aller à l'encontre de la volonté des pays de l'OPEP, à casser les cours du pétrole pour plaire aux maîtres  américains et sionistes, à dépenser les fonds publics dans les casinos ou pour se procurer des domestiques et  acheter des chevaux de course. Pour ce qui est de la paralysie du processus éducatif, il est vrai que nous avons  paralysé un système fondé sur l'esclavage et la domesticité et mis un terme à la discrimination raciale exercée  contre des travailleuses asiatiques qui subissaient les formes d'oppression les plus odieuses.  (L'orateur poursuit en français)
45.2 — Enfin, Monsieur le Président, selon l'Organisation Amnesty International, dont une équipe s'est rendue  dans l'Emirat le 28 mars ou en avril, un grand nombre de victimes ont été tuées et des centaines d'autres ont été  arrêtées arbitrairement. Beaucoup ont été torturées par les forces armées koweïtiennes et par les membres du  groupe de résistance anti-irakienne … |  (L'orateur poursuit en arabe)  Lin labf yaad) Usa (pipi y LS pa Ÿl Lilanall U5 pi) Lut il| Tilanall db Ligues ¥ Sale dia £0,  catial yall 35d] ain JES egal ontill 53h Tass A Lusi Bytes Ge paaally pis pled spaall Losaly  Sots ALS aay odd] gall Jud A) pial] Wl pad] © ld pas OF pal asdl oa gas] eps sa¥)  de sid Tail) 3,500 à Sana J 53a) 5 ssl patil] (gh Tan yin rn 53a 3) ga (à Losale là 353  Olas salty Bualy USE Sl Tae Ga lina SO JS SU) le ate) dla el bed] Laan  pad] pa GAS SY phae ly Gale La¥) pall ly LOL)
(45.3) Je voudrais citer un témoignage dont il n'est pas rendu compte dans la presse française et qui a été  publié dans la presse américaine et dans le journal d'opposition Al Nasr, témoignage que je mets a la disposition  du Directeur général, de vous-mêmes et de toutes les délégations, celui de la directrice de l'école Hedy Chaarawi,  et je prie le Directeur général de bien écouter ce que cette directrice déclarait aux journalistes américains : "Je  jure sur Dieu tout puissant que je dis la stricte vérité ; ils m'ont emmenée avec 18 jeunes Palestiniennes dans la  fleur de l'âge de l'école Hedy Chaarawi à la caserne du sixième secteur, près de l'autorama, et là, ils ont  collectivement violé les jeunes filles à plusieurs reprises, en leur affirmant qu'elles avaient été condamnées à mort  pour avoir soutenu l'Irak”.
46. Le PRESIDENT :  Cher collègue, vous avez dépassé les trois minutes. Je vous prie de terminer en 15 secondes.
47, M. HAIDAR :  Point d'ordre, s'il vous plaît ; je suis ici depuis 20 ans ; personne n'a dit trois minutes. Qui a décidé de  ces trois minutes ? Laissez-moi parler.
48. Le PRESIDENT :  Monsieur le délégué, cher collègue. Le Président de la Conférence a décidé que les droits de réponse  devraient être de trois minutes. Je vous prie de respecter la présidence.
49. M. HAIDAR :  Je la respecte. Je suis ici depuis 20 ans et j'ai toujours suivi les règles du jeu.  (L'orateur poursuit en arabe)  Mais si vous voulez faire taire ceux qui défendent la vérité, libre à vous, Monsieur le Président ; j'ai un seul  mot à dire et je voudrais que vous m'écoutiez.
50. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous en prie, Monsieur le délégué de l'Irak, vous avez dépassé les trois minutes, Nous sommes ici à  une Conférence générale de l'UNESCO et je vous prie de bien vouloir, cher collègue, respecter la présidence.
51. Mr HAIDAR:  Yes, I shall respect it, but one minute. You have given the Kuwaiti delegate one hour instead of
15 minutes and nobody stopped him. Why this discrimination? Why, I want to ask the Secretariat? He had only
15 minutes but you gave him 60 minutes. Why? Can you tell me?
52. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous prie, encore une fois, cher collègue, de respecter la présidence.
53. Mr HAIDAR:  And I also ask you to respect the ‘règles du jeu’, to respect UNESCO's rules. Thank you, Mr President.
54. Le PRESIDENT :  À sa demande, je donne la parole au délégué du Koweït, pour trois minutes.  Fema) pese sui 00  sg GNT pay AGL gheall say als Cie purs Lac que pa T0 BRAIN Gl gala  OI sia OF aadll sage JA ma SI 158 Leste yaad! Li 505l dasa Ce plan oF Elyuadla Jolas GF pas)  SLA] 5 saasll pal) lake JS path ail aud) pa $p3S 10a Le abigand) CLASS pasando) Na sd  out Blue Le AS Via 5 dasa lash CS 5 La YI sland) A Gg nad) Jaye iS
(55) M. AL-ONAIZI (Koweït) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, le dernier intervenant s'est exprimé sur le mode propre au régime qu'il  représente, à savoir celui des imprécations. De toute évidence, et à notre vif regret, il s'efforce ainsi de justifier le  crime commis par l'Irak en envahissant le Koweït. L'intervenant veut-il dire que son pays a envahi le Koweït pour  libérer les servantes asiatiques ? Tout cela n'est pas sérieux. Les organisations du système des Nations Unies et le  monde entier savent malheureusement quel traitement a été réservé aux Asiatiques dans le désert jordanien,  comment ils ont été chassés et contraints à l'errance. Je m'arrêterai là, Monsieur le Président.
56. Le PRESIDENT:  Je remercie le délégué du Koweït. Je donne la parole pour la dernière fois au délégué de l'Irak, pour deux  minutes.
58.  SSE pas US LAS] ac GA La pal Jalal) Le pail yl
(57) M. HAIDAR (Irak) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Je ne lance pas d'imprécations, mais on m'empêche de vous donner lecture du témoignage d'enseignantes  et d'élèves palestiniennes enlevées de leurs écoles et emmenées dans les centres de police et les demeures des  émirs, ces émirs du Koweït qui ont pris l'habitude d'avoir des domestiques et de traiter les êtres humains selon le  seul critère de l'argent. À ces émirs je dis : "C'est vous qui avez volé le pétrole irakien, ainsi que 45 km du  territoire irakien, qui avez cassé les cours du pétrole fixés d'un commun accord par l'OPEP et qui avez gaspillé  des ressources pour cette guerre. Si vous étiez vraiment des gens d'honneur, vous auriez accepté les solutions  arabes que le roi Hussein s'efforçait de trouver”. Je vous remercie.  Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué de l'Irak. Je donne la parole maintenant pour la dernière fois et pour deux  minutes, au délégué des Emirats arabes unis.  à sa5l Le JS 45355 paul od Ci guess Gland) Codie pa lys lpe a Jai Gd igen pu) sad S08  fin lid] Las 8 5 J) sams ails Taga) Io] le Gsm yi Guill Sle a olagead | Talal] oT a Ji  ld) ley dds alall cotid) ley Tonal) LY) ley (sod) cmp) aad (le Pay SI pal plas caps) La  Le Gale sald Ulgals Josie) 523135 GSTS FLAN pl aus pi dose WS alll boas) Le tansy
(59) M. AL MANSOURI (Emirats arabes unis) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je n'entrerai pas dans une vaine polémique avec le délégué de l'Irak et je  ne voudrais pas vous faire perdre du temps ; je tiens simplement à préciser que le "sombre épisode” est imputable  à ceux qui rejettent les normes internationales pour revenir à la loi de la jungle, Telle est bien la voie qu'a suivie  le régime irakien en agressant le peuple koweïtien sans défense, la nation arabe, le peuple irakien lui-même et le  monde entier. Le contenu de toutes les interventions est consigné dans les archives de l'ONU et de ses institutions  spécialisées. Quant au gaspillage du pétrole et des revenus qu'il procure, ce qui se passe aujourd'hui au Koweït  même montre bien ce qu'il en est. Le délégué de l'Irak sait tout cela. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le délégué des Emirats arabes unis. La séance est levée.  La séance est levée à 20 h.  The meeting rose at 8 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 20.00
3acexanne 3akpbiBaeTcs B 20.00  lus A Leland jb Lada! ni  STF UR 0045 TR