Vingt-troisième séance plénière
4 novembre 1991, à 10 h.15  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  Twenty-third plenary meeting
4 Hosa6pa 1991 r. B 10.15  Mpercenaresn: r-u Oror (Kenns)  Susduadly LB Laladl Talal  (ala Vo V0 Talal VARY OS Gu p83) andy 8  (Laas) end ol wand 1 uss I  E+ =KkEeS
19914F 11 A4 HE, L0BF154)  E M: REfRE (FRE)
709   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION I: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION I: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION I: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  JTOKJIAJl KOMHCCHH I: PE3OJTIOL[HH H PEKOMEHIALHH  lastly nl, La: I RAT 5,33  PI ERSHRE : BFE
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not appear to have a quorum and I shall  therefore suspend the meeting for five minutes, after which we shall proceed.  (The meeting was suspended for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed. The item on the agenda for this morning is the adoption  of the report of Commission I. The two documents we have to consider bear the following reference numbers:
26 C/138 and 26 C/138 Add. and Corr.
1.3 I would like to suggest that, in view of the diversity of the items treated in this report, we adopt it in  parts and not paragraph by paragraph. With your permission, I shall submit to you, for adoption, all the  paragraphs falling under a given item, following the order of the Commission's agenda.
1.4 I now give the floor to Ms Margaretha Mickwitz, Chairwoman of Commission I, who will introduce  the report of her Commission and present the first two items. Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
2.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to present to  the plenary meeting of the General Conference the results of the work carried out by Commission L.
2.2 The Commission examined the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 pertaining to item 3.5 -  Part II.B, the Transverse Theme and Programme on Women, and item 4.2 - UNESCO's contribution to  improvement of the status of women. It also considered item 3.6 - Part III - Support for Programme Execution,  which comprised nine chapters: Chapter 1: Bureau for Co-ordination of Operational Activities; Chapter 2:  Bureau for External Relations; Chapter 3: Bureau for Co-ordination of Field Units; Chapter 4: Office of Public  Information; Chapter 5: UNESCO Courier Office; Chapter 6: Innovation and Modernization Unit; Chapter 7:  Conventions Unit; Chapter 8: Office of the UNESCO Press; and Chapter 9: Bureau for Programme Support. In  this last chapter, we examined only the activities pertaining to the Languages and Documents Service and the  Conference Division, as the other parts were to be examined by the Administrative Commission and  Commission IV. We also examined item 15.2 - Directives concerning UNESCO's relations with foundations  and similar institutions; item 7.1 - Report by the Director-General on changes in the classification of  international non-governmental organizations; item 8.2 - Definition of regions with a view to the execution of  regional activities, following changes in the names of Member States; and item 8.5 - Establishment of a  UNESCO forum (Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an ad hoc forum of reflection). In  addition to the documents concerning these items, 19 draft resolutions were submitted for consideration by the  Commission.
2.3 Mr President, the Commission examined the items on its agenda in the course of 15 meetings which  began on Tuesday, 15 October, and ended, as scheduled, on Thursday, 24 October. The report was adopted by  the Commission on Tuesday, 29 October at its sixteenth meeting.
2.4 In spite of the number of items it had to examine in a very short period of time, the Commission  completed its work thanks to a remarkable spirit of self-discipline on the part of its members, who expressed  their views with force and conviction on sometimes sensitive subjects, but nevertheless with great respect for  other points of view. | warmly thank the members of the Commission for their positive attitude which allowed  us to reach a consensus on some controversial issues, thus greatly facilitating my task. Of course, some  delegates expressed reservations concerning some of the points discussed and I hope that they have been  properly recorded in the Commission's report and its Addendum and Corrigendum,
2.5 I feel very honoured by the opportunity given to me to chair this Commission; it has indeed been a  pleasure to be able to work together on some very important items pertaining to UNESCO's programme.  Item 3.5 - Part ILB - Transverse Themes and Programmes, Chapter 1: Women  and  Item 4.2 - UNESCQ's contribution to improvement of the status of women
2.6 Mr President, with your permission, I am now going to present the part of the report pertaining to  items 3.5 - Part ILB - Transverse Themes and Programmes, Chapter 1: Women, and item 4.2 - UNESCO's  contribution to improvement of the status of women, which were considered together in the course of two  meetings. The Commission examined the relevant parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993
(26 C/5), document 26 C/15 and two draft resolutions: 26 C/DR.29 Rev. and 26 C/DR.244. An open-ended  drafting group with representatives of Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Norway and the Netherlands, the last  representing the European Community, was set up in order to merge the two draft resolutions. The results of  their work greatly facilitated the decisions taken by the Commission concerning the merged draft resolution,  which carries the reference 26 C/COM.I/DR.2.
2.7 A large number of delegates spoke about the programme proposed under the Transverse Theme  "Women', many of them men! They expressed unanimous support for the programme and satisfaction with the  priority accorded to women in the coming programme and budget. However, several speakers regretted the fact  that not enough funds had been allocated to this priority programme and asked that the resources of the Co-  ordination Unit, both human and material, be bolstered. They also regretted that a co-ordinator for activities  relating to women had not yet been appointed.
2.8 Some reiterated the need to implement systematically and methodically the dual strategy for improving  the status of women; they felt that concentration of efforts and implementation of concrete policy measures had  not been sufficient.
2.9 The speakers underscored the fundamental importance of the following themes: the struggle against  illiteracy among women which, in absolute terms, is increasing at an alarming rate; universal access by women  and girls to basic education and the reduction of drop-outs among girls; technical and vocational training,  particularly for women in rural areas and marginalized urban zones and for women heads of families; inclusion  in education and literacy curricula of facts of health, nutrition, forestry and water, and the rights of women; the  establishment of pilot learning centres for women; the introduction of courses on the equality of the sexes and  women's rights in school and university curricula; equal opportunities for women in higher education and in  senior professional and political positions; the role of women in the democratization process; the role and status  of female teachers.
2.10 — Many delegates regretted the cuts in the funds allocated to training in the communication professions  and stressed the importance of these programmes for women; the reduced number of activities in the field of  culture drew several comments.
2.11 A large number of speakers proposed activities in the following areas: the role of women in the  transmission of the cultural heritage and the preservation of the environment; women's access to scientific  studies and careers; the fight against stereotypes and the promotion of mixed education and ‘gender-neutral’  science and technology education; the impact of the media on the lives of women; studies on the status of  women and the compilation of reliable statistics; the creation of a data bank on the status of women; the  struggle against violence against women and female prostitution and the protection of teen-age mothers; better  access of women to decision-making in all areas in the life of societies; the sharing of parental responsibility in  the education of children.
2.12 One delegate suggested that UNESCO should carry out an analysis of the situation of women in  different countries and even include it in the fourth Medium-Term Plan.
2.13 A representative of one non-governmental organization regretted the fact that the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1992-1993 did not include a paragraph on education for the prevention of child prostitution.
2.14 The position of women in the Secretariat was mentioned several times, and it was requested that a  report on the findings of the ad hoc Working Group on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in UNESCO's  Secretariat be submitted to the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.
2.15 — One delegate pointed out that the Convention on Technical and Vocational Education, adopted by the  General Conference at its twenty-fifth session, should be revised on the basis of equality between men and  women. She also suggested that UNESCO should encourage the scientific non-governmental organizations it  works with to introduce measures meant to improve the participation rate of women, adding that the Executive  Board, the ad hoc Forum of Reflection (if and when approved) and other bodies should give the example in this  area.
2.16 Some speakers also wished to see more co-operation with non-governmental organizations of women  and other groups in the implementation of the transverse programme on women.
2.17 Several speakers commented on the Director-General's report concerning UNESCO's contribution to  improving the status of women (26 C/15), commending its quality. A few, however, said that it lacked a critical  dimension, and that some of its contents were not sufficiently explicit. Some delegates also said that UNESCO  should eliminate sexist language from its own documents.
2.18 One delegate asked UNESCO to change the transverse programme on women to a major programme  in the future.
2.19 A number of delegates asked that a study be envisaged to evaluate the impact of activities carried out  during the last few biennia for the benefit of future programming.
2.20 Lastly, the delegates said that UNESCO should start preparations for the 1995 Fourth World  Conference on Women and the International Year of the Family in 1994.
2.21 Mr President, I have finished my presentation of this part of the report
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your presentation, Ms Mickwitz. We now have to adopt the part of the report and of its  Addendum and Corrigendum relating to items 3.5 and 4.2 (pages 3 to 6 of the English version).
3.2 Paragraph 3 pertains to draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR.2 elaborated by the drafting group.  Paragraph 4 pertains to the budget proposed in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, and  paragraphs 5 and 6 to the functions of the Co-ordination of Activities relating to Women and to the summary of  activities relating to the improvement of the status of women.
3.3 May I remind you that the figures of the proposed budget we are to adopt are subject to adjustment in  the light of the decisions that will be taken by the joint meeting of the five programme commissions and the  Administrative Commission. This applies to all the other proposed budgets to be approved by the General  Conference as regards the items treated by Commission I. Are there any objections or comments? I see none.
34 May I consider that as regards items 3.5 and 4.2 the General Conference adopts draft resolution
26 C/COM.I/DR.2 as amended by the Commission; approves the budget proposed in document 26 C/5; and  takes note of the functions and activities in document 26 C/5?
3.5 It is so decided.  Item 3.6 - Part IN - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 1: Bureau for Co-ordination  Operational Activiti
3.6 Ms Mickwitz will now present the part of the report of Commission I dealing with item 3.6 - Part III -  Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 1: Bureau for Co-ordination of Operational Activities.
3.7 Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
4.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission devoted one meeting to the examination of the Bureau for  Co-ordination of Operational Activities. The Commission considered the relevant parts of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5) and draft resolution 26 C/DR.47.
4.2 The speakers who took the floor on the subject of the Bureau for Co-ordination of Operational  Activities underlined the importance of operational activities and the focal role of the Bureau for Co-ordination  of Operational Activities in enhancing UNESCO's active participation in international development co-  operation. They welcomed the new trends in this co-operation, which give a prominent role to the national level  in the design and execution of projects, adding that in this period of critical examination of the United Nations  system, UNESCO must do its utmost to demonstrate professional excellence and competitiveness, and to create  a climate of close co-operation with other United Nations bodies and recipient countries. It was emphasized that  the intellectual and cultural dimensions of UNESCO's work should be reflected in the Organization's  operational activities. In particular, sector analyses and other upstream activities undertaken by the  Organization should take into account priority areas, i.e. the role of women, least developed countries and the  Africa region.
4.3 Several speakers welcomed UNESCO's intention to reinforce, through training and technical  assistance, national institutional capabilities for sector policy analysis, sectoral adjustment planning and sector  management. Furthermore, a number of delegates indicated their keen interest in UNESCO's proposal to assist  Member States in project preparation and implementation, including selection and procurement of equipment  and administration of fellowships, and urged the Organization to give this adequate priority.
4.4 One speaker stated that over the years UNESCO had witnessed a continuous decrease in its share of  operational activities financed by UNDP and within the United Nations development system in general; he  questioned the reduction of the allocation proposed for the Bureau in terms of both budgetary and staff  resources. He welcomed some of the new management approaches but added that his country would like to see  more clearly the concrete steps taken by UNESCO to strengthen its co-operation with UNDP and to adapt its  operational activities to the new modalities of international development co-operation.
4.5 Two speakers took the floor in relation to funds-in-trust. One of them requested that the final reports of  funds-in-trust financed projects, both from the Secretariat and recipient countries, be speeded up, indicating  that this would have a positive influence on donors and facilitate the allocation of new funds. The second  expressed the hope that funds-in-trust would in future be managed in a more practical and efficient way.
4.6 Two speakers referred to the complexity of project management at the country level, and stressed the  need for national counterparts to be fully involved in the management of projects, including the disbursement of  funds.
4.7 The representative of Venezuela presented draft resolution 26 C/DR.47, indicating that the feasibility  study mentioned in the draft resolution was an essential pre-condition for obtaining from various sources, such  as OPEC, the extra-budgetary funds necessary to establish the fellowship bank. All the speakers who intervened  in the debate on this point warmly supported the draft resolution and asked for its urgent implementation;  several of them deplored that the feasibility study in question, requested by the General Conference two years  ago, had yet to be completed. Finally, two speakers expressed the wish that women would be given priority  attention once the fellowship bank became operational and one speaker urged that literacy animators benefit  from this facility. Mr President, I have finished this part of my presentation.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Ms Mickwitz. We now have to adopt the part of the report relating to item 3.6 - Part III -  Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 1: Bureau for Co-ordination of Operational Activities (pages 7 and
8 of the English version). Paragraph 2 pertains to draft resolution 26 C/DR.47; paragraph 3 to the proposed  budget for 1992-1993; and paragraph 4 to the work plan.
5.2 Are there any comments or objections? I see none. May I then consider that as regards item 3.6 -  Part III - Chapter 1, the General Conference adopts draft resolution 26 C/DR47 as modified by the  Commission; approves the proposed budget; and takes note of the work plan in document 26 C/5?
5.3 It is so decided.
23   Item 3.6 - Part]     and  Item 15.2 -
54 I shall now invite Ms Mickwitz to continue her presentation of the Commission's report. Ms Mickwitz,  you have the floor.
6.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. With your permission, I will now proceed with the presentation of item 3.6 -  Part III - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 2: Bureau for External Relations, and item 15.2 -  Directives concerning UNESCO's relations with foundations and similar institutions. These two items were  examined by the Commission at two meetings.
6.2 For the Bureau for External Relations, the Commission examined the relevant parts of document
26 C/5, document 26 C/6 and two draft resolutions, 26 C/DR.12 and 26 C/DR.108. In addition, a working  group set up by the Commission submitted draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR.3. For item 15.2, the Commission  examined document 26 C/117 and draft resolution 26 C/DR.240.
6.3 In the discussions concerning the Bureau for External Relations, one delegate advocated the  strengthening of co-operation between UNESCO and intergovernmental, interregional and regional  organizations and also with the agencies of the United Nations system, which was especially vital in view of the  recent changes in the Europe region.
6.4 A substantial debate took place on co-operation with National Commissions. Most speakers  emphasized the need to strengthen National Commissions further, which must be seen as instruments of  paramount importance in the decentralization process. The key role which National Commissions are called  upon to play to reaffirm UNESCO's intellectual mission was also underlined.
6.5 Several delegates emphasized that regional co-operation among National Commissions should be  strengthened further, and that it was important to find ways and means to hold all three regional meetings  instead of the two mentioned in the draft programme and budget.
6.6 Many delegates stressed the importance of training activities, of short-term secondments of staff  members to certain National Commissions, of strengthening co-operation among National Commissions,  particularly interregional co-operation, and of the need to ensure that National Commissions play a greater part  in the preparation and implementation of the Organization's programmes. The acquisition of basic equipment  by National Commissions, particularly in the least developed countries, was also given high priority. A number  of delegates considered the recently launched bulletin for National Commissions UNESCONTACT a useful  initiative.
6.7 While there was general support for the activities presented in the framework of the programme for co-  operation with National Commissions, several speakers were of the view that the budget was insufficient and  proposed that it be increased in future biennia.
6.8 The speakers said they hoped to see the conclusions and remarks concerning co-operation between  UNESCO and National Commissions circulated for information to all UNESCO sectors. The role of National  Commissions should be highlighted even more in future C/5 documents, and the division relating to them  within the Bureau for External Relations should be strengthened.
6.9 A number of speakers stressed that it was important for National Commissions to receive copies of all  correspondence addressed by the Secretariat to bodies and institutions in their respective Member States.
6.10 Many delegates highlighted the importance of the UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations  movement, and the role of their World Federation. They felt that UNESCO should continue to give increasing  support to this movement, which contributes to a large extent to the training of young people in respect for  cultural traditions and moral values.
6.11 As to co-operation between UNESCO and international non-governmental organizations and  foundations, a large number of delegates recognized the important role played by these bodies on the
714   international scene and highlighted their valuable collaboration with UNESCO in its fields of competence. But  they also expressed concern regarding the subventions policy.
6.12 Several members of the Commission said they were in favour of wider geographical representation in  the international non-governmental organizations maintaining official relations with UNESCO; they also  wanted to see non-governmental organizations in developing countries more closely associated with UNESCO's  programmes. With this in view, it was suggested that the criteria for the allocation of subventions be re-  examined and that the Director-General present to the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference a  report on efforts made in this direction. |
6.13 The draft Directives concerning UNESCO's relations with foundations and similar institutions were  favourably received.
6.14 One delegate requested that the conditions for the granting of official-relationship status to foundations  and similar institutions should be applied in the light of resolution 7/34 of the twentieth session of the General  Conference. Mr President, I have finished the presentation oË this part of the report.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We now have to adopt the part of the report relating to item 3.6 - Part III -  Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 2: Bureau for External Relations, and item 15.2 - Directives  concerning UNESCO's relations with foundations and similar institutions. Let us start with paragraph 2 of the  report (pages 9 to 12 of the English version) pertaining to draft resolution 13.1 set out in paragraph 13202 of  document 26 C/5, as amended. We shall then proceed with paragraph 3 (pages 12 and 13 of the English  version) which refers to draft resolution 26 C/DR.12 and paragraph 4 (pages 13 and 14 of the English version)  which concerns draft resolution 26 C/DR.108 and paragraph 5 (pages 14 to 18 of the English version)  pertaining to the draft resolution in paragraph 8 of document 26 C/117, and the Directives contained in the  Annex to the same document, as amended. We shall continue with the proposed budget for 1992-1993 in  paragraph 6 and, finally, with the work plan in paragraph 7.
7.2 Are there any comments, objections or questions? I see none. May I then consider that as regards  item 3.6 - Part III - Chapter 2, and item 15.2, the General Conference adopts draft resolution 13.1 in  document 26 C/5 as well as the draft resolutions submitted by Member States and the draft resolution in  paragraph 8 of document 26 C/117, as amended; that it adopts the proposed budget; and fakes note of the work  plan proposed in document 26 C/5.
7.3 It 1s so decided.  Item 7.1 -  and  Item 8.2 -     TA We will now move on to items 7.1 and 8.2. I give the floor to Ms Mickwitz who will proceed with the  presentation.
8.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. I will make a brief presentation of item 7.1 - Report by the Director-General  on changes in the classification of international non-governmental organizations, and item 8.2 - Definition of  regions with a view to the execution of regional activities, following changes in the names of Member States.  For item 7.1, the Commission examined document 26 C/41 and for item 8.2, document 26 C/46 and Add. and  Corr.
8.2 The discussion on item 8.2 reflected the geopolitical changes which have taken place recently. Four  new countries, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Tuvalu, have been admitted to UNESCO. I would like to inform  you that the Addendum and Corrigendum to the Commission's report includes the changes in the names of  certain countries in the French version. Mr President, I have finished my presentation of this part of the report.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We now have to adopt the part of the report relating to items 7.1 and 8.2  (pages 19 and 20 of the English version),
9.2 Let us start with item 7.1. Are there any objections? I see none.
9.3 I consider then that the General Conference takes note of the report by the Director-General on  changes in the classification of international non-governmental organizations contained in document 26 C/41  and annexes.
9.4 It is so decided.
9.5 Concerning item 8.2, are there any objections? I see none.
9.6 I shall consider, then, that the General Conference approves the participation of Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania in the regional activities of the Europe region and of Tuvalu in the regional activities of the Asia and  the Pacific region. It also takes note of the changes of the names of two Member States.
9.7 It is so decided.
9.8 I shall now invite Ms Mickwitz to present the next item. Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
10.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. With your permission, I shall present item 8.5 - Establishment of a  UNESCO Forum (Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an ad hoc forum of reflection).
10.2 The Commission examined draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR.1, which was to be replaced by
26 C/COM.I/DR.4 and its Addendum and Corrigendum.
10.3 At its seventh meeting the Commission discussed the agenda item on the establishment of a UNESCO  Forum, to be renamed ‘Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an ad hoc forum of  reflection’, an item originally proposed by Germany in draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR.1, which was to be  replaced by a new draft resolution dealing with ‘Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an  ad hoc forum of reflection’, submitted by Germany and France. The delegates of both countries provided a  number of clarifications on this matter. The advent of a new era in international relations, it was said,  presented a new opportunity: it was now possible to give a new impetus to intellectual co-operation between  nations and to reinforce UNESCO's role in this domain.
10.4 Following an exchange of views on procedure and reference by the Chairwoman to Rule T8A,  paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, it was decided to examine an unofficial draft  of a resolution which had been circulated in its English and French versions during the meeting.
10.5 In the course of the ensuing discussion, a large number of delegates took the floor to express a whole  range of rich and varied views on the subject. A large majority of them supported in principle the proposals  contained in the unofficial draft text, which invited the Executive Board to ‘set up an ad hoc forum of  reflection’. A number of delegates, however, felt that this proposal should be looked at methodically and from  all angles. Some speakers thus suggested postponement of consideration of the matter until the Director-  General, as invited by the draft resolution, submitted his proposals to the 139th session of the Executive Board.  Many delegates asked for a feasibility study on the forum, the findings of which would be submitted to the  twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. A number of speakers stressed the need, in the light of the  Constitution, to associate closely the three UNESCO bodies - the General Conference, the Executive Board and  the Secretariat - with the setting up of an ad hoc forum of reflection.
10.6 While agreeing with the principle of establishing a forum of reflection, a number of delegates wished  to see certain aspects of the draft spelled out in a clearer manner. For example, they raised questions  concerning the position of the forum vis-à-vis the governing bodies, its mandate, its composition (for example,  should this be fixed or variable?), the periodicity of its meetings, the methods of drawing up its agenda and the
716   choice of its members. Several speakers said they hoped that this choice would be made on the basis of a  ‘balanced’ geographical distribution rather than a ‘diversified’ one. Many of the statements touched upon the  forum's future ties with the mechanisms and relays of international intellectual co-operation (particularly  National Commissions, non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations and the network of UNESCO  experts) as well as the scope of its work.
10.7 Many delegates underlined the project's budgetary implications, some hoping that the forum would be  financed by extra-budgetary resources. The forum, some said, should include the most eminent intellectual and  scientific figures, both men and women, such as winners of Nobel prizes and other similar awards. According  to several speakers, this should be kept in mind when the Executive Board examines the proposals of the  Director-General concerning the composition of the forum and the choice of persons called upon to take part in  it. They also asked for the preparation of specific methods for the forum's establishment and functioning.
10.8 In his reply, the representative of the Director-General said there was a need to clarify the many  questions raised during the debate in order to enable the Secretariat to provide the appropriate answers by the
139th session of the Executive Board. It was then decided to examine, during a later meeting, a new draft  resolution which would reflect some of the amendments proposed during the discussion.
10.9 At its thirteenth meeting, therefore, the Commission examined draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR 4,  submitted by the Chairwoman, concerning Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an ad  hoc forum of reflection’. This draft resolution replaced 26 C/COM.I/DR.1. À large number of delegates took the  floor, and again there was wide support, in principle, for the new resolution. However, a number of speakers  put forward the same questions and suggestions as they had made during the seventh meeting, or proposed new  ones in various amendments to the text. The representative of the Director-General took the floor again to ask  the authors of the draft for precise indications as to the ways and means they foresaw for the setting up of an ad  hoc forum of reflection. One of the authors expressed the opinion that the members of the forum should remain  the same during the initial two-year period. He thought the forum's meetings should be held at Headquarters,  except if an invitation was made by a Member State. The forum should fix its own agenda since it was called  upon to raise questions hitherto unasked and to anticipate matters so as to keep the Executive Board fed with  new ideas. It should have consultative status, and should be experimental during the initial two-year period.
10.10 The meeting was then suspended to enable a new text for the draft resolution to be drawn up taking  account of some of the amendments suggested during the debate. When the meeting resumed, the Commission  decided to recommend that the General Conference adopt draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR.4 as amended. As  suggested by the Chairwoman, the Commission also decided to recommend that the General Conference  change the title of agenda item 8.5 to bring it into line with that of the resolution: ‘Intellectual co-operation in  UNESCO and the setting up of an ad hoc forum of reflection’. Mr President, that concludes the part of the  report concerning this item.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your interesting presentation, Ms Mickwitz. I give the floor to the delegate of France.
12. M. BRUNSVICK (France) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voulais remercier la Présidente de la Commission I de la façon dont  elle a relaté ce débat important. Peut-être serait-il souhaitable d'en compléter la teneur par la mention de la  déclaration qui a été faite par le représentant de la France en commission, à savoir qu'à la suite de cette  adoption, la France avait décidé de retirer le projet de résolution 26 C/PLEN/DR.1 qu'elle avait présenté au titre  du point 15.1.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We have taken note of your remarks.
13.2 We now have to adopt the part of the report relating to item 8.5 contained in document 26 C/138 and  Add. and Corr. (pages 21 and 22 of the English version). Are there any objections?
13.3 As there seem to be no objections, may 1 consider that as regards item 8.5, the General Conference  adopts the recommendations relating to draft resolution 26 C/COM.I/DR 4, as amended, including the proposal  that item 8.5 be renamed ‘Intellectual co-operation in UNESCO and the setting up of an ad hoc forum of  reflection’, on the understanding that item 15.1 - ‘Intellectual co-operation at UNESCO' is deleted from the  agenda of this session of the General Conference.
134 I see no objections. It is so decided.
13.5 Inow give the floor to Ms Mickwitz, who will proceed with the report on the next item.
14.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. The item dealing with the Bureau for Co-ordination of Field Units was  covered in one meeting. The Commission examined the relevant parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for
14.2 The debate on the draft programme and budget of the Bureau for Co-ordination of Field Units was  particularly rich and covered many aspects of UNESCO's decentralization policy. In general, the delegates who  took the floor welcomed the ‘new signs of energy’ with which decentralization was finally being pursued and  the 'wise collaboration’ that now existed on this issue between the Secretariat and the Executive Board. They  stressed, however, that a reasonable balance should be maintained between the activities of the UNESCO  Secretariat in Paris and its regional field units. These units should be partners in discussions concerning the  decentralization process.
143 A few Member States expressed reservations regarding the potential cost of decentralization and  requested caution in its implementation. A detailed cost analysis of decentralization would be necessary and  helpful for future activities in this area. On the other hand, the vast majority of speakers expressed the view  that, for their regions, decentralization was a prerequisite for stimulating more intellectual interaction between  the Organization and their own professional communities and planning agencies. Consequently, they felt that  the role of the field offices in UNESCO's planning process should be increasingly strengthened, especially in  the setting of priorities; there should be provision for a two-way flow of information so that the global mission  of UNESCO could be both enriched by regional experiences and adjusted to the specificities of each subregion  and region.
14.4 For that purpose, field offices should be given increased resources for regular visits to Member States  and much closer collaboration with both the National Commissions and the intergovernmental bodies through  which Member States increasingly co-ordinate their policies at the subregional and regional levels. Similarly,  the field offices should increasingly draw upon the professional expertise available within Member States in all  regions.
14.5 The Regional Offices should, as far as possible, have staff members who are responsible for all of  UNESCO's fields of competence, including culture.
14.6 Many speakers indicated that they were anxious to see concrete evidence of increased resources in field  offices, as regards both their professional and administrative responsibilities. On the other hand, several  speakers expressed their appreciation for the steps that had already been taken by the Director-General to  strengthen specific offices. There was a consensus that decentralization should proceed through the  strengthening of existing structures and not through the creation of new ones.
14.7 Almost every speaker emphasized the role of the National Commissions as the focal point for  collaboration between the field offices and the national, professional and planning bodies. Many of them  acknowledged that National Commissions themselves would need the support of their own governments and  UNESCO in order to discharge these responsibilities fully. The representative of the Director-General indicated  that the head of each field office had now been designated as UNESCO representative to specific Member  States and, in the context of the new decentralization policy, had been given very clear instructions on  collaboration with National Commissions. Together, the field offices and National Commissions formed the  two main pillars of decentralization.
148 Commission I unanimously supported the chapter of the draft programme and budget concerning the  Bureau for Co-ordination of Field Units and welcomed, in particular, the emphasis on training, data bases and  the proposed annual review of UNESCO in its Member States. Thank you, Mr President, I have finished this  part of my presentation.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We shall now move on to the adoption of the part of the report relating to  item 3.6 - Part II, Chapter 3. Paragraph 2 refers to the proposed budget and paragraph 3 to the work plan as  proposed in document 26 C/5.
15.2 Are there any objections? I see none.
15.3 May I consider then, that the General Conference approves the budget in paragraph 2 and takes note of  the corresponding work plan in document 26 C/5?
15.4  Itis so decided.  Item 3.6 - Part
15.5  Inow give the floor to Ms Mickwitz who will present this part of the report.
16.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. Chapter 4 refers to the Office of Public Information under Part III - Support  for Programme Execution. The Commission devoted one meeting to the discussion of this item. The documents  examined were the relevant parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 in document 26 C/5 and  document 26 C/13 Add., and draft resolutions 26 C/DR.102, 26 C/DR.103, 26 C/DR.116, 26 C/DR.119 and
16.2 The debate on the Office of Public Information began with a brief introduction by the representative of  the Director-General, who recalled the three objectives he had set himself for the 1990-1991 biennium: to re-  establish relations based on confidence with the media of industrialized countries; to rebuild a network of  privileged relations with the press specializing in education, science, culture and communication; and to  introduce new blood into OPI and build up its professional capacities.
16.3 During the discussion, several speakers touched on the problem of regional information, stressing the  need to decentralize public information activities and the corresponding human and financial resources. Some  African countries regretted that OPI was not present in their countries, and pointed out that Africa was one of  the three priority targets of UNESCO's action.
16.4 A few speakers supported the pilot experiment to decentralize public information in Latin America  and said they would like to see it applied in other regions, In general, the delegates wished to receive more  information material (both written and audio-visual), and underscored the need to produce more material in the  Organization's languages other than English and French.
16.5 Several delegates welcomed the initiatives taken by OPI, in collaboration with the Communication  Sector, for the promotion of pluralistic and independent media in Central and Eastern Europe as well as in  Africa with special reference to East/West meetings and the Windhoek seminar. These initiatives have resulted  in increasing UNESCO's visibility in the media and among the public.
16.6 Some speakers spoke of the role of UNESCO Sources in informing the public about the Organization's  programmes. A few of them raised the question of the production of this periodical in other official languages  of the Organization. One delegate asked for more information on the arrangements and time-frame for the  production of the Spanish version.
16.7 Several delegates expressed their interest in the UNESCO Coupon Scheme and in the Philatelic and  Numismatic Programme, and asked that they be continued on the same basis in 1992 and 1993.
16.8 A large number of speakers took the floor to discuss the various draft resolutions concerning the  commemoration of anniversaries of great personalities and events. There was a unanimous move to continue  the calendar of anniversaries in the next biennium, for it was felt that the calendar was one of the most  important tools in promoting knowledge of other countries and their cultures. Consequently, the anniversaries  proposed in draft resolutions 26 C/DR.102, 116, 119 and 120 will be taken into consideration when the  calendar for the 1992-1993 biennium is drawn up.
16.9 Many delegates asked OPI to develop a global strategy aimed at promoting the Organization among  the public at large, insisting on the need to co-ordinate the efforts of the Office with those undertaken by other  services, particularly the UNESCO Courier and the Office of the UNESCO Press.
16.10 Several speakers pointed out that the cuts in OPI's budget could seriously hamper the Office in  carrying out its functions. All efforts should go to making optimum use of available funds, especially in  building up a positive image of the Organization in the Member States.
16.11 In his reply, the representative of the Director-General welcomed the suggestions made by the  delegates. However, he drew their attention to the fact that the funds allocated to OPI (which have registered a
35 per cent decrease compared with the last biennium) would not make it possible to satisfy all their demands.  But he said he would take into account the concerns of the Member States when deciding on priorities for the  next biennium. Mr President, I have concluded my presentation of this part of the report.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Czechoslovakia has asked for the floor.
18. Mr POMEZNY (Czechoslovakia):  Mr President, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 2(a) of the draft resolution on page 24 of the  report. The Czechoslovak delegation would like to repeat its request that the four-hundredth anniversary of the  birth of Jan Amos Comenius be included in this paragraph. The importance of this personality is generally  acknowledged: and the head of the Czechoslovak delegation, at the beginning of the General Conference,  alluded to a motion to institute a UNESCO Comenius Award for outstanding pedagogues; and there was also a  motion to establish an international teachers’ day to commemorate the Comenius anniversary. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. May I ask the Secretary to clarify which paragraph, or subparagraph, we are talking about?
20. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. L'alinéa (d) du paragraphe 4 dit que le Conseil exécutif devrait  continuer à examiner les critères et procédures à suivre pour la célébration d'anniversaires et décider de  l'inscription d'autres anniversaires. La solution la plus simple serait de remplacer cet alinéa (d) par un autre,  dont le libellé pourrait être le suivant : "que l'UNESCO s'associe aussi à la célébration du quatrième centenaire  de la naissance de Comenius", ou tout autre rédaction adéquate, bien sûr. Voilà la proposition la plus  raisonnable, je crois. Merci beaucoup.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela.
(22) Mr QUINTERO (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish}:  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to follow up Ms Mickwitz's frequent references to comments  made by various delegates regarding the use of other languages besides English and French in the General  Conference, and express my surprise - a feeling which is, I think, shared by the other Spanish-speaking  countries - at the fact that the Secretariat has not provided the text of the address by President Fujimori in  Spanish, the language in which it was delivered, but only in English and French, despite the fact that Spanish is  one of the official languages of UNESCO. That is all. Thank you.
23. The PRESIDENT:  These concerns will be noted. May I ask the delegate of Czechoslovakia if he can accept the  amendment proposed by the Secretary?
24. Mr POMEZNY (Czechoslovakia):  Thank you, Mr President. If this anniversary is included, then paragraph (d) should read as suggested  by the Secretary. Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Austria has the floor.
26. Mr MUSSI (Austria):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 wished to support the request by the distinguished delegate of  Czechoslovakia, but that has now been adequately dealt with, it seems. Thank you very much.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
28. Mr SIZOO (Netherlands):  The Netherlands, too, Mr President, wishes to support the proposal by Czechoslovakia. Thank you.
29.1 The PRESIDENT:  Note will be taken of all comments. We shall now proceed with the adoption of this part of the report  (page 24 of the English version). Paragraph 2 refers to the resolution proposed in paragraph 4 of document
26 C/13 Add., as amended during the debate; paragraph 3 refers to draft resolution 26 C/DR.103 which will be  considered when we come to the adoption of the part of the report pertaining to the Office of the UNESCO  Press, and paragraphs 4 and 5 refer to the proposed budget and work plan for 1992-1993 respectively. Are there  any objections? I see none.
292 — May I consider then that the General Conference adopts the resolution proposed in document 26 C/13  Add, amended to include the paragraph proposed by the delegate of Czechoslovakia; that it approves the  proposed budget and takes note of the work plan for this item?
29.3 It is so decided.  Item 3.5 - Part ILC - Participation Programme
294 — We shall now examine for adoption the next item in the report. Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
30.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. With your permission, I shall now introduce the part of the report pertaining  to item 3.5 - Part II.C - Participation Programme. The Commission examined draft resolution 12.0 in  paragraph 12002 of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5), as well as the relevant parts of  the same document concerning this item. In addition, there were two draft resolutions for consideration:
26 C/DR.215 which was not admissible and 26 C/DR.285.
30.2 The delegates who spoke during the debate on the Participation Programme were unanimous in  emphasizing its importance to their countries, for it was a programme in which all Member States participated.  They welcomed the increase in the budget proposed for the programme in the next biennium, but they asked  that more funds be allocated to it in the future.
30.3 While recognizing that some effort had been made to improve procedures for processing requests  submitted by Member States, the majority of the speakers said that more needed to be done in this area. They  also asked that decisions regarding requests be taken more rapidly. For them, the key words in managing the  programme should be simplicity, transparency and cohesion. Some of them suggested the setting up of an  evaluation mechanism and the re-establishment of a special Participation Programme unit which should be  responsible for channelling requests to sectors and seeing that they are executed in strict accordance with the  priorities and needs indicated by the Member States.
304 Consequently, all the speakers were in favour of draft resolution 26 C/DR.285 submitted by Austria  (except for the final paragraph of the draft); this resolution deals precisely with the questions I have just  mentioned.
30.5 Several delegates questioned whether emergency assistance should really be financed by the  Participation Programme; one speaker thought that activities relating to the World Decade for Cultural  Development should not be processed within the programme. Others were of the opinion that financing of  activities belonging to the regular programme from Participation Programme funds should be avoided.
30.6 A number of speakers insisted that the Programme's funds should be allocated only to requests  concerning activities in UNESCO's fields of competence and in accordance with the programme's objectives,  and not to satisfy what some described as 'political’ requests.
30.7 In the opinion of many delegates, high priority should be given to requests submitted by the least  developed countries. One delegate asked that paragraph 3(ii) of circular letter CL/3259 concerning the  Participation Programme be interpreted with flexibility.
30.8 The delegates hoped that the Participation Programme would not be affected by the budgetary cuts and  that the funds allocated to co-operation with National Commissions would only be used for this purpose. They  also asked Member States to prepare their requests more carefully in order to accelerate their processing.  However, to facilitate the preparation of requests, an estimation of the amounts allocated to each country should  be indicated in advance.
30.9 Concerning draft resolution 12.0, one delegate expressed reservations regarding paragraph 8(f) which  deal with privileges and immunities granted to personnel recruited under the Participation Programme.
30.10 Lastly, several delegates said that requests for funding submitted by non-governmental organizations  should be treated separately from those of Member States.
31.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We shall now proceed with the adoption of the part of the report relating to  item 3.5 - Part TLC of document 26 C/138 and Add. and Corr. (pages 25 to 28 of the English version of the  report). Paragraph 2 pertains to draft resolution 12.0 in document 26 C/5, as amended, paragraph 3 refers to  draft resolution 26 C/DR.285, as amended, paragraph 4 presents the budget summary and paragraph 5 the work  plan in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5). Are there any comments or objections? I see  none.
31.2 I then consider that the General Conference adopts the resolution presented in paragraph 2 as well as  resolution 26 C/DR.285 in paragraph 3; approves the budget in paragraph 4; and takes note of the work plan in  paragraph 5.
31.3 It 1s so decided.  Item 3.6 - Part III - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 5: UNESCO Courier Office
31.4 Ms Mickwitz will now present item 3.6 - Part III - Chapter 5. Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
32.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. I am going to make a brief presentation of the part of the report which  covers the UNESCO Courier Office. The Commission examined, in the course of one meeting, the relevant  parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993, draft resolution 26 C/DR.113 (which was not  retained) and draft resolution 26 C/DR.103; the decision concerning the latter was postponed until the  discussion pertaining to the Office of the UNESCO Press.
32.2 All the speakers expressed their general satisfaction with the new format and contents of the UNESCO  Courier and its good image in spreading UNESCO's objectives. They advocated the continuation of the  excellent work so far carried out and also requested that greater efforts be made to increase the universality of  the themes and articles, and to present better UNESCO's own activities mn all its fields of competence.
32.3 One delegate spoke of the absence of a resolution on the UNESCO Courier in the C/5 document and  insisted that such a resolution should be included in the future.
32.4 Some delegates hoped for a more stable financial situation for the Courier, which should not depend  solely on revenue from its Headquarters editions. It was felt by several speakers that more funding should be
722   made available for promoting and publishing non-Headquarters editions, and that funds should be adjusted to  take into account the number of potential readers in any one language. Editors of non-Headquarters editions  and National Commissions should also play a greater role in planning the main themes of forthcoming issues.  Regular meetings of Headquarters and non-Headquarters editors of the Courier should be maintained.
32.5 Some delegates said they were interested in obtaining from UNESCO regular information on the  circulation of both Headquarters and non-Headquarters editions.
32.6 One delegate stressed that all aspects of these editions should be taken up in detail at the twenty-  seventh session of the General Conference. Several speakers were of the opinion that, during future sessions of  the General Conference, the agenda item concerning the Courier should be discussed as part of UNESCO's  general publications policy.
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We shall now proceed with the adoption of this part of the report (page 29  of the English version). We shall only have to consider paragraphs 3 and 4 relating to the proposed budget and  work plan for this item. Are there any objections? I see none.
33.2 May I then consider that the General Conference approves the proposed budget and takes note of the  work plan contained in document 26 C/5?
33.3  Itis so decided.  Item 3.6 -
334 — We shall now continue with the presentation of the report. I give the floor to Ms Mickwitz.
34.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. The next part of the report covers item 3.6 - Part III - Support for  Programme Execution, Chapter 8: Office of the UNESCO Press. The Commission devoted one meeting to this  item which attracted much interest in the light of proposals made by the Director-General concerning a new  publications policy. The relevant documents examined by the Commission were the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1992-1993 and draft resolution 26 C/DR.103 submitted by Germany which, as I said before, also  concerned the Office of Public Information and the UNESCO Courier Office. The Commission had postponed  decisions on this draft resolution until consideration of this item. I would like to point out that this part of the  report was subject to an addendum and corrigendum during its adoption by the Commission.
34.2 — The statements during the debate on the Office of the UNESCO Press centred mainly on the proposals  concerning a new publications policy presented by the Director-General at the 137th session of the Executive  Board (137 EX/10).
34.3 Most of the speakers expressed reservations on this matter. It would be difficult, they said, to reconcile  the proposed partition by sector with the Organization's specific mandate in areas of priority action such as  peace, environment and development. In this regard, they insisted on the co-ordination role which has fallen on  the Office of the UNESCO Press. Consequently they said they hoped that the report to be submitted to the 139th  session of the Executive Board would include not only arguments for and against the planned reform, but also  indications on ways to improve the existing structure.
344 Referring to the proposals by the Director-General, his representative pointed out that they were based  on the observation that the Office of the UNESCO Press was not a publisher in the strictest sense of the word,  since it was not free to choose the titles it published. Yet it was expected to achieve reasonable sales for titles  that were not adapted to market needs.
34.5 Since the sectors were the best judges of who the readers of their publications were, it seemed  preferable not to try to sell unmarketable publications and to leave this responsibility entirely to them. Parallel  to this, a proposal was put forward to set up a small unit to be responsible for the dissemination to a wide public  of works relating to the Organization's various fields of competence. With this in mind, it would be more  rational to envisage reading committees at the sector level.
346 Some delegates felt that the proposed work plan relating to this part of the programme was too  general.
34.7 Several speakers were in favour of decentralizing production, promotion and distribution. However,  they pointed out that the notion of self-financing publications introduced in the work plan should not be applied  at the expense of the least developed countries and that a certain amount of free distribution should be  maintained. Some delegates said there was room for improvement in the distribution of UNESCO periodicals  and other publications, which were sometimes very late in reaching certain destinations.
34.8 Several delegates were concerned by the unequal use of languages, and called upon the Director-  General to set this situation right, In this regard, co-publications might contribute to reducing production costs.
349 Some reservations were expressed with regard to the budget appropriation for the Office of the  UNESCO Press, its functions as described in document 26 C/5 and the Publications Plan contained in  Annex XIII thereto. These appear in the written report you have before you and will be published accordingly.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. The delegate of the Soviet Union has asked for the floor.
36. F-H ETOIIKHH (Coro3 Coserckux CoumannerHyeckHX Pecny61HK):  Brarogapio Bac, rocmoquH IlpercemaTens. Y MeH4 eCTh TONMPARKA, KaCalOIIa4cH IyHKTa (4)  IPE/TOXEHHOrO HaM JOKYMEHTA, B YACTHOCTH BToporo naparpada pesontonud. Co6CTBEHHO, 3TO HE CTONbKO  TONMpaBKa, CKOJbKO YTOYHEHHE, KOTOPOE HallpaBJIEHO Ha TO, YTOÔbI IpUHHUMAaeMasi HAMM PE30NI0NHs OonbliIe  COOTBETCTBOBaJIa XapaKTepy NpoMCLIe ICH TUCKYCCHH H NO3MIMAM TOCYAapCTB-YASHOB. 51 HMCIO B BHAY TY  YHacTb BTOPOro naparpada, rie roBopuTcs: "OTMedaeT jajee C YAOBJIeTBOPEHHEM MONHTHKY, KACAFOIIY-OCH  nybnukamuit IOHECKO, pkatouas Kypwep IOHHECKO” un Tn. [eno B TOM, 4YTO, KaK YXe OTMETHI  npepcenatens Komuccun I, Ha sacemannsx  Oblna BbicKa3aHa cepbe3Has 03ab0O4YCHHOCTb IIOJIMTHKOMR B 06-  JHACTH ny6naukauui Opranusanuy, H gist TOro, 4TOOLI HE CO3TANOCb HEJOIOHHMAHHH HIM HEIPaBHIBHOIO  IIOHMMaHUs JaHHOTO IIyHKTa Pe30nIioNUM, B KOTOPOM HJET pedb O HONUTHKE B OGJNACTH IICPHONHYECKHX  My61HKalIHH, 4 Npemlaraio BHECTH H3MCHEHHE, KOTOPOE MOCHE KOHCYALTAIIHÀ C pSAgoM Jeleranui, B TOM  yxcne c nenerauneñ I'epMannu, KOTOpas npejcraBuia JaHHbIÂÉ IIPOEKT pesOnIOIIHH H KOTOpas COrJacHa ¢  INPEJIAaracMbIM MHOH H3MEHEHHEM, 3BY4ail0 Obl CHCNyIONIHM obpasoM: ’’… oTMeyaeT Hanee ¢  YROBNETBOPEHHEM MONHTHKY …”” (CHENYIONINME HECKONLKO CIOB MbI BbIYEPKHBAËM, CHUMaeM) ”…. OTMEYAeT  jajnee ¢ YNOBNETBOPpeHHEM MONHTHKY, © KOTOPOH l'OBOPHTCA B NyYHKTE 33 okyMeHTa ...”" H T.J. To ecth Ha  AHrJIHÉCKOM #3bIK€ J[AHHbIÂ TEKCT 3Byual Obl CHCAYIOU[HM 06pa3om: ’’Futher notes with appreciation the policy  outlined in 26...” and so on. B TakoM BHJC, KaK MHE Mpe/(CTABJISETCH, PE3OMONHA GoJee NpaBHITbHO OTpaxana  Obl XapakTep COCTOSBILEHCS [HCKYCCHH H HCKIIOYAIA Obl BO3MOXHOCTb HENMPABWILHOIO IOHKMAHHS aHHOFO  TeKcra. Criacubo.
(36) Mr EGOCHKINE (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to make an amendment to paragraph 4 of the document that has  been submitted to us, in the second preambular paragraph of the resolution. Strictly speaking, it is not so much an  amendment as a clarification designed to bring the resolution which we are to adopt more into line with what was  said in the discussion and the positions of the Member States. I refer to that part of the second preambular  paragraph which reads 'Further notes with appreciation the policy concerning UNESCO's publications, including  the Courier’. As the Chairwoman of Commission I pointed out, serious concern was expressed in the Commission  regarding our Organization's publications policy and so, in order to ensure that there is no uncertainty or  misunderstanding regarding this paragraph of the resolution, which concerns policy on periodical publications, I  propose an alteration on which I have consulted a number of delegations, including the delegation of Germany,  which submitted the draft resolution and agrees with my proposed alteration. The alteration would consist of  deleting the words following "Further notes with appreciation the policy’ and then continuing so that the resolution  reads 'Further notes with appreciation the policy outlined in 26 C/5 Draft, para. 33' and so on. The resolution  would, in my opinion, then be a more correct reflection of the discussion which took place and the possibility of  misinterpretation of our text would be eliminated. Thank you.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of China.
38. SE CPR) :  RENTE FREE, RIESE, THRRAZ RAREMENT EL BR LP 1  AR EPS IFo  VA VA + le op
(38) Mr MA (China) (Translation from the Chinese):  Thank you, Mr President. The delegation of China fully agrees with the revision just proposed by the  delegation of the USSR to the second subparagraph of paragraph 4 of the resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of France has the floor.
40. M. BRUNSVICK (France) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais exprimer un regret, c'est que ces modifications n'aient pas  été présentées lorsque nous avons étudié ce texte en commission et lorsque nous l'avons ensuite, une seconde  fois, adopté. Je trouve que ce n'est pas le lieu d'ouvrir un débat ; c'est un point qui avait été traité différemment  et controversé. Personnellement, je ne suis pas favorable à une modification en séance plénière d'un texte qui a  été examiné, adopté une première et même une seconde fois. J'ajoute que, si j'ai bien compris ce qui vient d'être  dit, on supprime la référence au Courrier, ce qui est contraire à ce qui s'est passé, car une satisfaction absolue et  générale a été exprimée quant au Courrier. Donc, je ne saurais m'associer à la proposition qui est faite. Merci.
41, The PRESIDENT:  The list of speakers is expanding, but I would like to appeal to those who took part in the  Commission's work not to reopen the debate. We are here to adopt the report, so I do not think we should go  over the same ground. I give the floor to the delegate of Germany.
42. Mr LOHSE (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. Germany agrees to the proposal made by the Soviet Union, Thank you,  Mr President.
43, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Yemen has the floor.  (oaall) 195 soil 44  As pet lia 4 A)
(44) Mr ZAID (Yemen) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express Yemen's support for the proposed amendment and I  see no need to go into any detailed justification of this support. Thank you.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now give the floor to the Chairwoman of Commission I.
46. Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Mr President, I also regret that this discussion did not take place in the Commission itself. However, I  personally do not see any difficulty in accepting the proposal by the delegate of the USSR. It does reflect some  discussions which took place in the Commission.
47. The PRESIDENT:  I note that the Chairwoman of the Commission has agreed that we may accept the wording proposed  by the distinguished delegate of the Soviet Union and supported by several delegations. Is that your wish? The  delegate of Equatorial Guinea has the floor.
(48) Mr EDJO OVONO (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, I should like to know whether the representative of the Soviet Union strongly objects to  any mention of the UNESCO Courier, since it seems to me that, although it is part of the publications policy,  there is clear satisfaction with its publication and distribution.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
50. [-5H ETOIIKHH (Coto3 Cosercknx Counanucruieckux Pecnybnuk):  Bnarogapto Bac, rocnonnx IIpencenaTens. OTseYas Ha BOMpPOC yYBaXaëMOro HeneraTa H3  DxpaTopHanbioN ['BHHEH, st XOWy CKa3aTh, UTO jallllasi MOMpaBKa HHKOHM OÔpasoM He HarlpaBéHa Ha TO,  YTOÔbI MCKNIOUHTD YNOMHHAHHE Kypvepa IOHECKO B RannoM IyHKTe pesonIionuH. M ecim MbI NMOCMOTPHM  Ha MOCHEAHIOH YaCThb AHHOFO Ke MyHKTa, TO TaM OJ[HO3HAYHO TOBOPHTCA O TOM 3HAYUTEJILHOM BKJa/lé,  KOTOPbIÉ BHOCHT Kyprep HHECKO B esTenblocTB Oprannsauxx. SI xouy, YTOÔbI ObI1110 OKHO3HAYHO TIOHATO,  YTO MOINpaBKka KacaeTcs xapakTepa o6cyx/CHH5, KOTOPO€ COCTOSIOCb B CBHA3H C OÔLIEH HOJNHTHKOH B  OTHOLICHHH Ny6OIIHKaHH, IIPHYEM HE TO/ILKO MEPpHONHYECKHX, H Haxxe HE CTONBKO HEPHONHYECKHX, CKOJIBKO  TY61HKaIHÂ B ILEJTOM, IOCKOJNbBKY PAN IeJIEraToOB BhICKA3bIBAII OYEHb CEPRE3HYIO O3AÔOHEHHOCTh, KACAIOIIYIOCH  HYOHHKaI[HH Ha HEKOTOPbIX H3 5H3bIKOB, KOTOPbIE ACÂCTBYIOT B IOHECKO. Bmecre © Tem, rocnopun  MpexcexaTesb, si XOTET 6b1 OTMETHTDL, YTO 3TOT BONPOC IO/HKMAJICH, IPHYCM HMCIHO B TAKOW IOCTAHOBKC,  Bo BpeM4 paboTbI Komuccuu I. Eciu ecTh HEOÔXOHMOCTL TIPOBEPHTb MPOTOKO/bI, $1 [yMalo, YTO 3TO  BO3MOXH0. Cnacx60, rocnoyum IIpenceraTesb.
(50) Mr EGOCHKINE (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the question raised by the distinguished delegate of Equatorial  Guinea, I should like to make clear that it is in no way the purpose of this amendment to exclude any reference to  the UNESCO Courier in this paragraph of the resolution. In the last part of that paragraph, unequivocal reference  is made to the important contribution made by the UNESCO Courier to the Organization's activity. I should like it  to be clearly understood that the amendment relates to the nature of the discussion which was held on general  policy concerning publications, and not only periodicals, and even not so much periodicals as publications in  general, since a number of delegates expressed very serious concern regarding publications in some of the  languages used at UNESCO. At the same time, Mr President, I should like to point out that this question was  raised, in exactly this form, in Commission I. If it is necessary to check the record of the debate, I think that this is  possible. Thank you, Mr President.
51.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We shall now proceed with the adoption of the part of the report relating to item 3.6 -  Part IIT - Chapter 8 in document 26 C/138 and Add. and Corr. (pages 30 and 31 of the English version).  Paragraph 4 refers to draft resolution 26 C/DR.103; paragraph 5 to the proposed budget for 1992-1993;  paragraph 6 to the functions of the Office of the UNESCO Press; and paragraph 7 to the Publications Plan  presented in Appendix XIII to document 26 C/5. Are there any objections?
51.2 If there are none, I consider that the General Conference adopts resolution 26 C/DR.103, as just  amended; approves the budget; and takes note of both the functions and the Publications Plan proposed for
51.3 It is so decided.
51.4 We now move on to the next item and I give the floor to Ms Mickwitz.
52.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. With your permission, I shall proceed with the presentation of this part of  the report which covers item 3.6 - Part III - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 9: Bureau for -  Programme Support.
52.2 The Commission examined the relevant parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993
(26 C/5). As 1 mentioned before, the Bureau for Programme Support covers four units, of which the  Commission examined only one: Part III - the Languages and Documents Service and the Conference Division.  The other parts were to be examined, as I said before, by the Administrative Commission and by  Commission IV.
52.3 During the discussion concerning the Bureau for Programme Support, one delegate, welcoming the  intention stated in the Director-General's Introduction to document 26 C/5 to keep meetings directly organized  by UNESCO to a bare minimum, asked for preliminary information on the shift towards the co-organization of  meetings. ‘
52.4 The representative of the Secretariat stated that it had been possible in 1990-1991 to respect the 25 per  cent reduction in meetings foreseen for that period; the Secretariat would endeavour in 1992-1993 to remain  within those same limits and if possible achieve a further reduction by increased use of the indirect method of  organization.
53.1 The PRESIDENT: :  Thank you. We shall now proceed with the adoption of the part of the report pertaining to item 3.6 -  Part III - Chapter 9 (page 32 of the English version). Paragraph 2 refers to the proposed budget and  paragraph 3 of the work plan as presented in document 26 C/5. Are there any objections? | see none.
53.2 May I consider then, that the General Conference approyes the budget in paragraph 2 and takes note of  the work plan in paragraph 3?
53.3  Itis so decided.  Item 3.6 - Part III - for Pr E 1 hapter 6: Innovation Modernization Uni
53.4 The next part of the report covers item 3.6 - Part III - Chapter 6. Ms Mickwitz, you have the floor.
54.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. This part of the report deals with the Innovation and Modernization Unit.  The Commission examined the relevant parts of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5) and  draft resolution 26 C/DR.96.
54.2 1 should like to point out that draft resolution 26 C/DR.96 was amended during the adoption of the  report by the Commission.
54.3 The debate on the Innovation and Modernization Unit was introduced by the Deputy Director-General  for Management, who presented the tasks of the Unit.
544 In the ensuing discussion, most speakers underlined the differences between the functions enumerated  in subparagraphs 13602(a) to (d) of document 26 C/5 and those in subparagraph(e), the latter concerning the  UNESCO-Chemobyl programme. All the delegates expressed their satisfaction with the Unit's work in  managing the UNESCO-Chemobyl programme. The project, said two delegates, was an example of what  UNESCO can do within its fields of competence to deal rapidly with a problem of worldwide interest.  According to other speakers, the project had succeeded in mobilizing international opinion concerning the  Chernobyl problem, and the Director-General should be congratulated on the results so far achieved.
54.5 One delegate stressed that the Unit's mandate as a whole was to find rapid and dynamic ways to meet  unforeseen changes and an unconventional approach to the Organization's activity, which was the only means  of achieving real innovation and modernization.
54.6 It was pointed out that, within the Chernobyl programme, there was a need for even more co-operation  between the Unit and the concerned sectors in UNESCO as well as international governmental and non-  governmental organizations. The delegates observed that the programme had broad public appeal; UNESCO  should strengthen the public's interest by producing and disseminating information material on the subject.  UNESCO's specific role in Chernobyl-related activities should be concentrated and defined better.
54.7 With regard to subparagraphs (a) to (d) in document 26 C/5, some delegates expressed the view that  the functions described in them often overlapped with those of other Secretariat divisions. They made it clear  that if funds were to be increased for this Unit they should be used for the Chernobyl programme. However, a  more detailed evaluation of the present activities of the Unit should be undertaken prior to any increase in the  budget. Some delegates said they would welcome a review of the division of competence between the Unit and  the Office of Public Information, in the spirit of 26 C/DR.103 already approved by Commission I.
54.8 The Secretariat provided a number of clarifications. The Unit makes a specific contribution to the  sectors and other services of the Organization; there is no duplication of responsibility and work since the  projects are transferred from the Unit to other parts of the Organization as soon as they become operational.
54.9 The Commission was also told that the study activities concerning the improvement of efficiency in  UNESCO (distribution of documents, internal communication, computerization, etc.) complement its  operational activities and provide concrete information needed for its action.
54.10 The delegates were informed of the distribution of an informal document on the activities of the Unit  which should have provided them with the necessary information.
54.11 It was also explained that the Unit had concentrated its attention on the realization of practical priority  projects for Chernobyl. The information document handed to the delegates shows that US $1.7 million were  mobilized to this end within a period of 10 months. The UNESCO-Chernobyl programme works in close co-  operation with the United Nations Task Force.
55.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We now have to adopt this part of the report (pages 33 and 34 of the  English version) and its Addendum and Corrigendum. Paragraph 2 contains draft resolution 26 C/DR.96;  paragraphs 3 and 4 refer to the proposed budget and functions in document 26 C/5. Paragraph 5 has been  amended in the Addendum and Corrigendum. Are there any objections? I see none.
55.2 I then consider that the General Conference adopts resolution 26 C/DR.96 as amended by the  Commission; approves the proposed budget; and takes note of the functions in document 26 C/5 as well as the  Addendum and Corrigendum concerning paragraph 5 of this part of the report.
55.3 It is so decided.  Item 3.6 - Part III - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 7: Conventions Unit
55.4 Finally, we come to the last item in the report, which concerns the Conventions Unit. Ms Mickwitz,  you have the floor.
56.1 Ms MICKWITZ (Finland), Chairwoman of Commission I:  Thank you, Mr President. The last part of the report deals with item 3.6 - Part II - Support for  Programme Execution, Chapter 7: Conventions Unit. The Commission examined the relevant parts of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1992-1993 (26 C/5) pertaining to the budget and work plan of the Conventions  Unit.
56.2 The Conventions Unit was also on the agenda of our Commission. The importance of UNESCO's  standard-setting action was highlighted by all the speakers. They congratulated the Director-General on the  establishment of this Unit which, they said, constituted a very positive step forward, and expressed support for  its activities.
56.3 In this context, it was hoped that the Executive Board will examine all the legal and normative  problems faced by the Organization, both from the substantive and structural viewpoints. The speakers also said  that activities and responsibilities of a normative nature were too dispersed within the Secretariat.
564 The importance and utility of a wide dissemination of information concerning the different aspects of  normative action was stressed. It was recommended that a general document on such action be prepared for the  benefit of National Commissions. The latter, it was hoped, would get intellectual and technical assistance from -  the Secretariat to translate standard-setting instruments into languages other than the Organization's official  ones. UNESCO, it was suggested, should regularty circulate among Member States information regarding  translations into national languages made officially by the Member States.
56.5 Lastly, one speaker suggested that it would be good to strengthen the association of the concerned  professional bodies with UNESCO's normative action. Mr President, I have finished my presentation.
57.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Mickwitz. We now move on to the adoption of this last item of the report (page 35 of  the English version). Paragraph 2 refers to the proposed budget and paragraph 3 to the work plan. Are there  any comments or objections? I see none.
57.2 May I then consider that the General Conference approves the budget and takes note of the work plan  as proposed in document 26 C/5?
57.3  Itis so decided.
57.4 Ladies and gentlemen, we have now completed the adrguon of the report of Commission I. The  delegate of Oman has asked for the floor.  (Otas) iaall seuil 0A  Based | (aad AIN YT Tall] wliayty wl, ly3 pli] 50540 satel shy oF cunt) sand 1S  Jig) Tail Tad 3a] phy Lib gli lables 303 Slr Lard 5395 Lag 10, F 5 To Gratll Lay Lust Il  Bie ob pli Sasa) SEIT oT gud I saad bo J pian 136 Lob sy 4480-3441 Lao 3,550 As 54e 55 Jal  LILI 5,50) JHE Lupale (sie AJ 405 oly F0 La]l pladl SA 0335) 55 Lib yd) Slalll peas (ala LIL,501 13a  dass Tall slael oul pladl SSI 5155 Belge JI Tide sll lal] punis plat] pradf wach seul SU US  ais) Ja oly Tals ps plat Lasalle oapat Lil Glalll pes) Touyals Tatlin pals poise ell  Jans piu gal pA ay pal y LAI, Toa) Jal da Asad) oulasdl bd Lad 5 oY pdb) sagt  Dy dalla bela Akal
(58) Mr AL-MAJAINI (Oman) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. Now that the General Conference has adopted the resolutions and  recommendations of Commission I, which the Chairwoman presented, including those under items 3.6 and 15.2  on greater support to the National Commissions and the allocation of more funds for this purpose in the budget of  the 1994-1995 biennium, allow me, Mr President, to remind the General Conference that it took a similar  resolution at its last session to support the National Commissions, but we have heard of no tangible follow-up to  that resolution at this session. I therefore invite the Director-General and the National Commissions unit to take  that General Conference resolution into account when preparing the new budget, by working out concrete  programmes and specific budget proposals in support of the National Commissions for submission to the General  Conference at its next session. This is important because the world has entered a period of closer contacts and an  eagemess for international co-operation in the service of education, culture and science. Lastly, I would ask that  these comments be included in the records of the meeting. Thank you.
59. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Your comments will be recorded. The delegate of Gabon has the floor.
60. M. NYALENDO (Gabon) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement relever une petite anomalie - du moins ce que je  crois être une anomalie, au point 8.2 : Définition des régions en vue de l'exécution des activités. Dans la version  française du rapport, Malte se trouve à la fois sur la liste Etats arabes et sur la liste Europe. Je crois que c'est  une petite anomalie. Merci.
61. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary.
62. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne la classification régionale aux fins de l'exécution du  programme, il n'y a pas de problème, si cela est demandé par l'Etat membre en question et accepté par la  Conférence générale, à ce qu'un Etat membre puisse appartenir à deux régions à la fois. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Nov, ladies and gentlen.en, as I said before we have completed the adoption of the report  of Commission I, and I would like to thank you all for your co-operation. Let me thank particularly, once again,  Ms Mickwitz, Chairwoman of Commission I, for the excellent work she has done.
63.2 The meeting stands adjourned until 3 o'clock, when we shall take up the report of the Administrative  Commission.  La séance est levée à 12 h.10  The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 12.10
3aceyanne 3akpbiBaeTcs B 12.10  Ih VY Lela) a Tadd) cand,  SWF IR 104345