Treizième séance plénière
2 novembre 1993, & 10 h.20  R&ident : M. SAWAD (‘Yémen)  puis : M. AL-GHAMAI (Emirats arabes unis)  Thirteenth plenary meeting
2 November 1993 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr SAYYAD (Yemen)  later Mr AL-GHAMAI (United Arab Emirates)  Decimotercera sesion plenaria
2 1iox6p11 1993 r. > 10.20  IIpeEcenaTenb: PH CAI45In (HeMeH)  saTe&% T-H knb-rAMAPi (06xemettwse Apa6cmse 3mpa~b1)
(1) IX PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Bonjour, nous reprenons le débat de politique générale. J’espère que vous avez pu vous reposer  dimanche et lundi. Je voudrais d’abord vous rappeler que nous avons une longue liste d’orateurs et qu’il faudra  donc que chacun s’en tienne aux 12 minutes qui lui sont imparties. Je donne la parole au premier orateur, S. Bxc.  M. le Baron Vaea de Houma, premier ministre et chef de la délégation des Tonga.
2.1 Baron Vaea of HOUMA (Tonga):  Mr President of the General Conference and Honourable Chairman, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Distinguished Ministers, Your Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, it is my honour and privilege to bring the greetings and best wishes of His Majesty, King  Taufa’ahau Tupou IV, His Majesty’s Government and the people of Tonga to UNESCO and its member  countries and to ail distinguished delegates attending the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of  UNESCO.
2.2 1 should like to take this opportun@ to thank UNESCO for continuing to provide leadership and  initiative in the areas under its mandate: education, culture, science and the environment, communication and  information and social and human sciences, for the benefit of people everywhere, but particularly for the  women and children of the world and other disadvantaged groups, including the vuhterable populations of the  small isolated nations of the Pacifie Ocean. As we approach the end of the twentieth Century and the beginning  of the twenty-first, it is clear that many of the humanitarian goals founded under the auspices of the United  Nations Will not be achieved: despite massive efforts and huge injections of funds into educational  development, millions of adults around the world will remain illiterate and millions of children Will have no  chance of schooling; despite also the energy expended on establishing a culture of peace based on the  promotion of human rights, tolerance and democracy, many parts of the world today, including the Pacifïc  region, are tom apart by racial, cultural and religious differences and despite, too, the development of  international goodwill and co-operation, there are today increasing gaps between the affluent developed nations  and the struggling developing countries, not only in terms of economic advancement but more importantly, as  far as long-term progress is concerned, in terms of information, knowledge and skills. In such a world it is  gratifying indeed that UNESCO stands as a beacon of hope for the development of human beings everywhere  and indeed for the future of our planet by educating the children of today and tomorrow not merely to revere  peace, human rights, tolerance and democracy but to become living representations of them.
2.3 Tonga became a member of UNESCO in 1980, the second Pacifie country to do SO. It did SO because it,  too, is committed to the ideals embodied in the ethical mission of UNESCO. Today, there are 11 Pacifie  Member States of UNESCO: Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, New Zealand, Niue, Papua New Guinea,  Solomon Islands, Samoa, Tonga and Tuvalu, and four with observer status: Federated States of Micronesia,  Marshall Islands, Nauru and Vanuatu. All of them affm the mission of UNESCO.
2.4 Tonga supports the programmes of UNESCO as set out in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-
1995, the priorities and emphasis identified in the draft, the thrust of the five main programme areas and the  transverse themes and the general allocation of funds to support those activities. However, Tonga would like to  examine some of these programmes not only in relation to its aspirations and priority concerns but with respect  to the Pacifïc region as a whole. 1 hope that my Pacifie colleagues Will welcome the initiative and forgive the  presumption that Tonga cari speak on behalf of the region.
2.5 The Pacifïc Regional Community, of which Tonga is a member, comprises Australia and New Zealand  and 33 other small States. 1 shah confine my remarks in this short address to the geographical area in which  are located: Melanesia, which includes Fiji, New Caledonia, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and  Vanuatu; Micronesia, which includes Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, and the Federated States of  Micronesia; and Polynesia, which includes the Cook Islands, Niue, Tonga, Tuvalu, Western Samoa and French  Polynesia. The Pacitïc region that 1 shah refer to hereafter Will exclude Australia and New Zealand and the  French territories, and Will refer only to the small independent and self-goveming States of the Pacifie.
2.6 The Pacifie region is characterized by extreme linguistic, cultural, physical and political diversities.  The Melanesian countries, in terms of population sixe, are probably the most linguisticalIy and culturally  diverse group in the world. For example, some 800 languages are spoken in Papua New Guinea alone, 115 in  Vanuatu and 87 in the Solomon Islands. The physical geography of the countries ranges from high and very  rough, inaccessible mountain terrain to small islands separated by vast physical distances. These factors have  effectively isolated communities within these countries as much as the ocean does in the other hvo groups.  Micronesia, on the other hand, consists mostly of tiny atolls with average elevations of about five metres above  sea-level. With the exception of Nauru, which is composed of one single raised coral island, the remainder ail  share one common feature: their composite islands are scattered over vast distances of ocean and the  administrative centre is far removed from the rest of the country. Kiribati, the largest of the group, straddling  the equator, is composed of 33 small islands with a total land area of 810 square kilometres but is spread over  an c.wxn area of 5 million square kilometres and stretches 3,870kilometres from west to east and
2,050 kilomeues from north to south. Polynesia, in contrast to the other two groups, was largely monocultural  and monolingual befom European contact and had developed into distinct political entities at the time of  contact.
2.7 However, despite these apparent differences among these small island nations and the considerable  distances which separate them geographically, linguistically, culturally and politically, they all share a number  of common features. Apart from Papua New Guinea, smalhtess in terms of land area and population size is the  most obvious. Eight of the member countries have populations of less than 100,000 and nine have land areas of  less than 1,000 square kilometres. The geography of the region ensures that settled communities are small,  scattered and isolated. This means that a very high percentage of the region’s population is rural. In Polynesia  approximately 75 per cent of the population reside in rural amas; in Melanesia it is about 80 per cent and about
70 per cent in Kiribati. Gnly the former United States territories record a rural population of less than 50 per  cent.
2.8 Given the rural nature of the population and the physical constraints, the distinct lack of or  underdevelopment of resources, the scarcity of skilled and experienced manpower resources and the high costs  of development in such a context, the region’s economy is still largely subsistence. Most countries are overly  dependent on a few export commodities and the vagaries of overseas markets, extemal assistance, the tourist  industry and Overseas remittances. Higher education in the region, for example, is almost entirely paid for by  foreign aid, as are most of the development programmes. However, these factors aIso combine to give the island  States a relatively high per capita GNP, which is somewhat offset by the high prices of foodstuffs and  manufactured goods, almost all of which are imported. In the last decade or so, the region has experienced  escalating problems of population growth, stagnating economies, increasing political instability, rising  environmental issues and massive migration, including a significant loss of skilled manpower, all of which  have seriously affected the delivery of services in the social sectors, such as health and education.
2.9 In a region where at least 60 per cent of the population is under 21 years of age, the rate of  participation at all levels of education is an issue of grave concern. Excepting the Polynesian countries and Fiji,  participation at the primary level is less than 100 per cent; at the secondary level, it is less than 50 percent,  excepting Fiji, Tonga and Samoa; in some parts of Melanesia, it is less than 20 per cent; and, at the post-  secondary level, it is less than 10 per cent. The Pacifie Islands Literacy Levels (PILL) stndy conducted by  UNESCO, which assessed the literacy and muneracy levels of nine Pacifie countries (involving 2,529 Class 6  students in 94 schools), although it concluded that many have achieved literacy and numeracy competence  noted, however, that the level at which the students were tested was Glass 4. The study aIso revealed that much  work was needed to be done on the development of literacy mater& in the vemacular languages. In  Melanesia, other than Fiji, available figures indicate that adult literacy is less than 20 per cent and that in some  countries some 50 per cent of the adult population had never attended school. On the whole, enrolment figures  indicate that the women of the region have access to education at more or less the same level as men (apart  from some Melanesian countries), and are able to participate significantly at all levels of education, although
455    they are yet to be fully represented at all levels and in employment opportunities and tend to be less represented  in the sciences, technical and commercial areas.
2.10 For the Pacifie region, therefore, the priorities and emphasis of UNESCO reflect and highlight some of  the more pressing challenges of development in the region, which include the following.
2.11 In the fïeld of education, tbe issues of access to and equity at the basic levels of education and for  adults at the non-formal education level; the development of the higher skills needed for modemization and  development, particularly vocational and technical education at the post-secondary level; the development and  promotion of quality education at ail levels, which means the development of appropriate and relevant quality  curricula at ail levels; the training of competent teachers and teacher trainers for all levels; tbe development of  effcient and effective educational management and the delivery of education in the mother tongue for at least  the first six years of schooling, not only to promote and maintain the vemacular languages and cultures and the  development of individual and group identities, but to develop self-confidence and a sense of self-worth which  are necessary for the acquisition of additive education, including the acquisition of a world language.
2.12 In the area of culture, the issues of vemacular languages development and maintenance and cultural  preservation and enhancement; the promotion of literacy and education in the mother tongue, particularly in  the extreme multilingual contexts of the region, as the main thrust for the maintenance of the small vumerable  languages and cultures of the Pacifie, which are increasingly being exposed to dominant world langnages and  cultures and are suffering various stages of language and cultural erosion and 10s~; the development of reading  materials at the basic levels of education in the vemacular languages and information mater& for adults to  support literacy efforts and development programmes; the development of dictionaries and grammars of these  languages; the establishment of cultural programmes within the for-mal school programmes; the promotion of  regional efforts to create cultural awareness and the importance of their contribution to national and individual  development.
2.13 In the areas of social development and the environment the challenges of effectively mobilizing and  hamessing the marine resonrces of the region for the benefit of its people and its small island States; the  development of long-term strategies to meet the challenges of rising populations and their impacts on the  increasingly pressured and vulnerable enviromnents; the necessity of global dialogue to address issues relating  to the consequences of international activities on the Pacifie environment, such as the effect of global warming  of the atmosphere and the resultant rise of the sea level and its repercussions on the small atolls of the region,  as aIso the effects of nuclear testing in the region on the overall health of people and its effects on the region’s  marine resources and environment.
2.14 In the fïeld of communication and information, the necessity of accessing the new communication  technologies and computer techniques to increase equity and access to education through other modes of  delivery, such as distance education, and to new advances in science and technology, such as the satellite links  provided through the PEACESAT network which has improved communication links, not only between  countries of the region and within the countries themselves, but witb the outside world as well and, given the  extreme isolation of communities within countries and within the region, to assist in the reduction of physical  distances and those created by opportnnity, knowledge, skills and information gaps in education and otber  developmental areas.
2.15 Lastly, in the area of human rights and democracy, the need to develop educational programmes to  promote political stability and coherency and, with it, the development of appropriate tools of democracy: basic  education that promotes human rights issues, peace and tolerance and, ultimately, the creation of appropriate  legislation which recognizes and validates human rights, equality issues, tolerance and democratic principles  and practices.
2.16 We in the Pacifie region as a whole recognize and applaud the achievements of UNESCO through its  programmes and planned activities in these areas. However, we in tbe Pacifie maintain tbat the challenges we  face today and in the future, although they may appear to be common with those of all other least-developed  countries and with other small isolated States of the globe, are, nevertheless, unique and require diiferentiated  treatment and context-specifïc solutions. One example is sufficient to illustrate the point.
2.17 It is ofien forgotten that the Pacifie States, although tiny in themselves, are located in the world’s  largest ocean and therefore have access to one of the world’s largest natural resources, which by tbis very fact,  is increasingly becoming a significant player on the world stage. Although the conventional view of the Pacifie  islands is that they are small, impoverished and isolated, the Pacifie Islanders had always seen themselves as  ‘large’ by association witb their ocean home. My fellow compatriot, Epeli Hau’ofa, has argued convincingiy  that the ‘world of Oceania is neither tiny nor deficient in resources. The importance of our [Pacifie Ocean], for  meeting a significant proportion of the world’s protein requirements, for the production of certain marine  resources in waters that are relatively clear of pollution, for the global reserves of mineral resources, among  others, has been increasingly recognized and puts paid to the notion that Oceania is the hole in the doughnut.  The emergence of organizations such as SPACHEE, SPREP, Forum Fisheries and SOPAC; of movements for a  nuclear-fiee Pacifïc, the prevention of toxic waste disposal, and the ban on wall-of-death fishing methods, witb  linkages to similar organizations and movements elsewhere; and the establishment at the University of the  South Pacifie of the Marine Science and Ocean Resources Management Programmes, witb linkages to flsheries  and resonrces agencies throughout the South Pacifïc and beyond indicate that we [pacifïc Islandersl could play  a pivotal role in the protection and sustainable development of our ocean. There are no more suitable people on  earth to be guardians to the world’s largest ocean than those for whom it has been home for generations. Our  role in the protection and development of our ocean is no mean ta&; it is no less than a major contribution to  the well-being of mankind’.
2.18 The issues of environmental protection and the sustainable development of marine resources of the  region, despite regional co-operative efforts, are yet to be adequately addressed in terms of educational and  training provisions, research and information.
2.19 UNESCO as an organization is based on the promotion of education as a vehicle for human  development and the promotion of a culture of peace based on human rights, tolerance and democracy. It has  over the years increasingly given priority to the development of the least-developed countries, which includes  most of the small States of the Pacifïc region. It has emphasized the importance of education for all, through all  available media, including distance education methods, advanced communication technologies and computer  techniques. It has advocated science education for further progress, environmental and population education  and the development of improved information networks and technologies, all of which are highly relevant to  the small States of the Pacifie, whose development is severely constrained by the underdevelopment of its  human and physical resources, particularly its marine resonrces.
2.20 In the name of the Pacifie region, therefore, 1 am asking that, in UNESCO’s Executive Board, the  Pacilïc be given the right to speak its words and its truths in its own authentic voice by having its own  representative. It was only four years ago that the Pacifie region with its 11 members, including Australia and  New Zealand, which represents one fourth of the membership of the Asia-Pacific electoral region, filled two of  the nine seats on tbe Executive Board allocated to the Asia-Pacific region. One of those seats was taken by  Papua New Guinea, for the first time. This seat is due for re-election during this Conference. Tonga, on behalf  of the Pacifie region, is asking the distinguished delegates of the twenty-seventh session of the  General Conference to give the small States of the Pacifie a voice in decisions that Will affect the development  of tbeir human resources, the preservation and maintenance of their vulnerable linguistic and cultural  heritages, their guardianship of the world’s largest ocean, the development and creation of their political and  legal institutions and structures, and ultimately, their snrvival. The Pacilïc region is often imbued and vested  with the romantic dreams of others; it has been called the Paradise of the world and a living Utopia. We who  work and live in the Pacifie want no romantic solutions to our real and devastating problems and challenges,  while others continue to identify our neecls, allocate our priorities, decide on their solutions but in tbe world’s  forums we wish to speak for ourselves, devise our open solutions to meet our challenges of today and tomorrow  and judge for ourselves tbe most desirable form of development for our people and our region. All we ask is one  Seat on the Executive Board.
2.21 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 am grateful for the opportunity to  represent my country at this Conference. 1 congratulate you, Mr President, on your election and wish you every  success in your direction of the session. 1 want to thank the Diiector-General and the Secretariat for the  excellent preparations made and the support services provided. Allow me also to welcome the new  Member States to the fellowship of UNESCO. TO you all in the name of our common goals and aspirations, our  respective peoples and human beings everywhere, thank you, and with love from Tonga.
(4.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi maintenant de vous donner lecture du message que vient de  faire parvenir S. E?xc. M. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, président de la République tunisienne.
(4.2) “Monsieur le Président de la Conférence, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, j’ai été  heurenx de constater la concordance entre les préoccupations de votre présente session et l’attention croissante  que nous portons, en Tunisie, aux questions de l’éducation, de la culture et des sciences, animés que nous  sommes par la ferme volonté d’assurer aux Tunisiens une formation qui leur permette de partager les aspirations  de l’humanité à une vie meilleure.
(4.3) Du fait qu’elle a le mieux exprimé ces préoccupations et défendu tout ce qui peut servir la pensée, la  paix et la liberté, l’UNESCO a mérité notre fidélité ; elle a mérité que nous continuions à soutenir ses  programmes et à aider à l’exécution de ses projets.
(4.4) En saluant, à travers vous, de nombreux pays frères et amis et en exprimant par votre intermédiaire ma  considération pour les diverses cultures et civilisations, je tiens à rendre hommage à votre assemblée qui incarne  la convergence des volontés et le même souci d’une quête centrale dont l’objectif est la promotion de l’être  humain, partout dans le monde, pour l’élever a une condition dans laquelle il puisse être plus authentiquement  humain, car plus libre des contraintes de l’existence et du poids des vicissitudes de l’histoire. A mon sens, la voie  la plus efficace, pour réaliser cette noble ambition consiste à lutter ensemble pour que les facteurs de  rapprochement entre les peuples l’emportent sur les facteurs de discorde. En effet, alors que l’humanité a atteint  le degré de maturité et de conscience qui est le sien, il ne faut pas que nous laissions ce qui nous éloigne les uns  des autres occulter ce qui nous rapproche, d’autant que les progrès technologiques que nous avons réalisés nous  offrent le maximum de possibilités de nous connaître et de nous comprendre les uns les autres.
(4.5) Nous ne devons pas perdre de vue que si les théories scientifiques auxquelles est parvenu le genre  humain nous ont ouvert les yeux sur la réalité des choses et si les machines puissantes que nous avons fabriquées  nous ont permis d’agir sur la matière avec une efficacité jamais atteinte, il reste à mettre ces progrès  scientifiques et technologiques au service du bien-être matériel et du perfectionnement moral et spirituel, qui  demeure le but suprême de toute action humaine qui se veut digne de respect. L’essentiel est que le progrès,  quelle qu’en soit la forme, doit avoir à la fois pour base la plus solide et pour exigence la plus haute, la liberté,  accomplissement de la notion d’humanité et valeur centrale de notre vie morale et de la loi qui régit notre  existence politique dans le cadre de la société civile.
(4.6) Cela étant posé, la défense de la cause de l’être humain signifie, pour nous, l’engagement concret de  garantir les libertés fondamentales et de consacrer les droits naturels conformément au bon sens et aux  dispositions des instruments internationaux. Elle signifie aussi l’enracinement de la démocratie, considérée  comme la forme politique et sociale appropriée pour l’exercice de ces libertés et la jouissance de ces droits. Ce  sont là les valeurs auxquelles tendent les combats de l’humanité, à l’heure où celle-ci aborde une nouvelle ère de  son histoire qu’elle veut être celle de l’égalité, de la paix et de la fraternité.
(4.7) Indubitablement, la concrétisation de cette volonté exige de tous l’ouverture à ces valeurs afin qu’elles  influent sur notre vie quotidienne. Si la bonne volonté s’y ajoute, ces valeurs nourriront une tradition qui  enrichira nos cultures et favorisera l’accession de l’être humain à l’universel. Certes, chaque peuple est en droit  d’être fier de son appartenance culturelle, fruit de l’authenticité de son expérience historique et symbole de son  propre génie. Néanmoins, nul ne saurait tirer argument de la spécificité pour contraindre l’être humain à adopter  des comportements incompatibles avec sa dignité humaine ou pour refuser de suivre le courant de l’histoire  universelle, avec toutes les idées et valeurs qui y prévalent et qui constituent l’esprit de l’époque et l’espoir de  tous ceux qui aspirent à une vie meilleure.
(4.8) Je n’ai pas besoin de vous rappeler le degré d’ouverture de la culture arabo-islamique à toutes les  cultures avec lesquelles elle fut en contact, ouverture qui fut l’un des plus puissants facteurs de son  enrichissement et de son rayonnement sur bien des nations du monde.Je me contenterai d’en donner pour preuve  la remarquable autorité dont jouissait Ibn Rushd (Averroès) dans tous les milieux scientifiques de l’époque, en  Orient comme en Occident. Cet exemple est, à mon sens, éminemment révélateur du dialogue entre les  civilisations, facteur d’enrichissement mutuel qui élève l’être humain, fait progresser la science et renforce la  compréhension entre les hommes.
(4.9) Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour suggérer à l’UNESCO d’inclure dans ses programmes à venir les  préparatifs de la célébration du millénaire dlbn Rushd, qui aura lieu dans quatre ans. Ibn Rushd est en effet l’une  des plus grandes figures du rationalisme de tous les temps, un des symboles de la fécondation culturelle  réciproque et un exemple remarquable de la synthèse harmonieuse des diverses dimensions de l’être humain  - religieuse, scientifique et philosophique. Nous sommes heureux d’annoncer que la Tunisie est pleinement  disposée à contribuer, autant qu’elle le pourra, à la réussite de cette manifestation, si l’UNESCO veut bien se
13  charger de l’organiser. Je suis convaincu que les intellectuels du monde entier pourront mettre à profit cette  occasion pour relancer l’approfondissement de la réflexion sur des notions que nous avons, aujourd’hui plus que  jamais, besoin de cristalliser et de propager parmi les hommes, comme celles d’universalité, de spécificité, de  tolérance, de liberté et de dialogue des civilisations à un moment où les modes de vie se rapprochent les uns des  autres et où les méthodes d’approche se rejoignent.
(4.10) Il est évident que le développement constant de cette tendance universelle exige que l’on s’efforce de  faire tout ce qui est possible pour assurer l’harmonie entre l’être humain et les valeurs de son époque, afin  d’éviter toute disparité entre sa formation intellectuelle, son éducation morale et son développement affectif pour  le prémunir contre les facteurs de déviation de la volonte et de crise d’identité face aux exigences de la  modernité, ainsi qu’à la conception th6orique et au modèle pratique sur lesquelles elle repose. C’est là,  assurément, une question extrêmement importante, qu’il s’agisse d’assurer la qualité des relations entre les  personnes au sein d’une même société et dans le cadre des rapports existant entre les diverses sociétés, de  manière B éviter toutes les formes de tension interpersonnelle, ou de parfaire l’équilibre indispensable entre  l’homme et son environnement, pour protéger le milieu naturel contre tous les risques de destruction et de  pollution.
(4.11) C’est en tenant compte de toutes ces dimensions que nous avons confié à l’école tunisienne la mission  d’éduquer les jeunes générations - en leur faisant prendre mieux conscience de leur identité nationale et de leur  appartenance à la civilisation arabo-islamique - de manière à développer leur personnalité pour qu’elles  grandissent en ayant le souci de la sagesse et de la moderation dans leurs positions, en faisant preuve de  générosité dans les relations avec autrui et en possédant les vertus de la pensé critique et de la maîtrise de soi,  afin de consolider la volonté d’agir et de créer et de renforcer la propension à l’autonomie.
(4.12) Nous voulons que nos jeunes grandissent en participant aux débats de la pensée humaine moderne,  qu’ils en tirent profit et les alimentent. Pour cela, nous avons fait en sorte qu’ils puissent apprendre - outre  l’arabe, langue maternelle - plusieurs langues étrangères, dont des langues des pays riverains de la Méditerranée,  entre autres. Nous les avons incités à acquérir la maîtrise d’une de ces langues au moins pour se doter des  moyens leur permettant de pratiquer un vkitable dialogue entre les cultures et entre les civilisations, entre les  idées et entre les valeurs, dans le cadre d’une démarche plus globale dont le but est la maîtrise des instruments  de la civilisation moderne et l’enracinement de la culture de la fraternité humaine. Ce sont là des objectifs  communs à l’Etat tunisien et à l’UNESCO. Aussi sommes-nous en droit de considérer l’éducation comme le  précurseur de la mutation culturelle profonde que vit aujourd’hui l’humanité, puisqu’elle conditionne dans une  large mesure la formation de générations attachées à la démocratie et désireuses de coopération constructive.  Car notre avenir ne pourra être qu’à l’image de ce que sont nos écoles aujourd’hui.
(4.13) Nous souhaitons à notre prestigieuse Organisation, WNBSCO, pleine réussite dans ses louables efforts  pour réunir en son sein tous les pays et toutes les civilisations, sans exception. Nous souhaitons aussi qu’elle  voie couronnés de succès ses efforts pour atteindre ses nobles objectifs en ce qui concerne une répartition plus  juste entre les nations.”
(4.14) Merci beaucoup. Je ne peux qu’exprimer en votre nom à tous notre gratitude et notre reconnaissance à  S. Ext. M. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali pour l’intérêt qu’il accorde à cette session en particulier et à l’UNESCO en  général en lui adressant nos voeux de succès et en adressant au peuple tunisien nos voeux de progrès et de  prospérité.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAI2 POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaci&)  OBCYX,IIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBI.@I IIOJIWI’HKII (rrpoaonmerrne)  (& LWI L+dI a.dia  i&!Hww ( $2 1
(5) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, je donne maintenant la parole à l’orateur suivant, S. Ext. M. Janis Dr@,  secrétaire d’Etat pour la culture et chef de la délégation de la Lettonie.
6.1 Mr DRIPE (Latvia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Ministers, Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour  and pleasure to address this distinguished audience. Since the early days of our drive for independence in 1988,  through its restoration in 1991, the Baltic States and Latvia were at the centre of attention of the world. We did  accomplish great things and it was done by peaceful and legal means; therefore some observers described these  events as the ‘siuging revolution’.
6.2 This has really been a period of rapid change. Latvia and bath other Baltic States now bave new  parliaments, set up in accordance with international democratic regulations, new govemments and new  currencies, that remind us of the period of our States’ independence at the beginning of this century and show  that we live an active life based on a market economy and intellect& potential. Culturally we are also  retuming to where we belong - the circle of European traditions, history and beliefs. As such we were received  in UNESCO two years ago, in the Organization the very symbol made of the reality of the riches which corne  from diversity, from cultures old and new, from countries large and small. Here we feel that our contribution to  its diversity Will be of value and Will strengthen the concert of nations. Perhaps the preservation of the cultural  identity of a small nation and country, which has always been conscious of itself as a part of North Europe, is a  commandment for the community of powerful and large countries and a guarantee for their own existence.
6.3 The problems of Latvia corne into focus in Riga, a City of 1 million situated on the Baltic Sea and in  the very centre of the Baltic States. In its 800 years of history this port City bas been open to the world.  Influenced by the traditions and fashions prevailing at the time of its construction, Riga presents an interesting  and diversilïed face. 1 would lie to mention four particular qualities: the old town where ail the historic styles  of Europe are represented, the boulevards as a complex monument of town-planning and eclectic styles, small  apartment buildings in wood construction from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries still standing in the  centre and in the suburbs and the fourth and the most important feature - the remarkable heritage of Art  Nouveau or Jugendstil. More than a third of the buildings in the centre of town are of this style. Due to their  amount, artistic quality and density, Riga is the city of Art Nouveau, equal to which you wouldn’t be able to  find anywhere else in the world.
6.4 These buildings in the Art Nouveau style are presently in a sad condition but, thanks to the excellent  quality of their construction work, the original details of the façades are basically intact. Therefore 1 dare to say  that Riga deserves to be a particular metropolis of Art Nouveau. Within three weeks, at the end of November,  the Latvian National Commission for UNESCO is organizing an international conference, ‘Riga Centre - the  Monument of Town Building’. Mr President, honourable delegates, may 1 express my hope that this Conference  Will introduce Riga and Latvia to the world at a level of unique values and mal quality and aIso constitute an  important contribution to UNESCO’s activities conceming the world’s Art Nouveau heritage.
6.5 The second project dominating our cultural activity is the new building for the Latvian National  Library. It has been designed by Gunars Birkerts, an American architect of Latvian descent, who bas created a  name for himself among the architects of the world. This building should be completed by the year 2001 - the
800th anniversaty of the City of Riga.
6.6 The retum of the Baltic States to their place among the free nations of the world should find its  expression in the field of creativity of cultural and spiritual values. The building of this library, as an immense  undertaking, Will contribute to this end.
6.7 Today, each Latvian owns on average five books at the National Library but each Latvian in the world  has his own folksong, a unique four-lined verse which embodies the nation’s memory and wisdom and is a  symbol of beauty and virtue, a testimony to the sun. Folksongs collected from every corner of Latvia, SO sacred  to Latvian people, were stored in a unique chest. The new library Will be very similar to this chest of folksongs  bath in its importance and its spatial arrangements.
6.8 Mr President, distinguished delegates, it is an unplanned coincidence that our project reflects the one  in Paris - that of the new Grande Bibliothèque de France. Our Latvian Library should be a symbol that in a  modest way an affirmation of our spirit is being built in the Baltics and that the Baltic people intend to  contribute to cultural exchange between nations.
6.9 Affirming my true and deep respect for all UNESCO prioritics, 1 cari say with full responsibility that in  this period of such historical significance and of transition, the Baltic States as well as Eastem Europe as a
13  whole, particularly deserve and need UNESCO’s concem and support which could promote the protection of  their intellectual potential sud the cultural identity of these nations. In the course of my speech, 1 have touched  upon a lot of the historical, artistic and old buildings in Riga, as well as the Latvian National Library, and 1 did  it on purpose, for we in the Baltic consider UNE!JCO as a very special cultural and spiritual structure which  was set up by different nations and in which every nation has its obligations as well as its importance and  value. Thank you for your attention.
(7) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Lettonie et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Oscar Ribas Reig,  chef du gouvernement et chef de la délégation de la Principauté d’Andorre.
(8.1) M. RIBAS REIG (Andorre) [discours prononcé en catalan ; texte espagnol fourni par la délégation]  (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, avant tout, je désire m’associer aux orateurs qui m’ont précédé pour  féliciter, au nom d’Andorre, les pays qui, comme le nôtre, sont depuis peu des Etats membres de l’UNESCO.
(8.2) Du haut de cette tibune je tiens à remercier ici tous ceux qui ont contribué à l’accueil cordial qui nous  a été réservé, d’apporter aussi mon soutien à l’élection prochaine du Directeur général et de dire combien nous  apprécions la tâche remarquable qu’accomplit ce dernier.
(8.3) Mon pays a connu lui aussi l’accélération de l’histoire et, en moins de deux ans, s’est peu à peu institué  le nouvel Etat andorran. Aujourd’hui, Andorre voit confirmés ses objectifs de normalisation et d’intégration à la  communauté internationale, son désir de cesser d’être une survivance du droit féodal et médiéval et de devenir  un Etat régi par les principes du droit international moderne. Notre souhait est de conserver le sens de la  solidarité et de l’hospitalité dont nous avons fait preuve lors d’épisodes majeurs de l’histoire de l’humanité.  Andorre, vieille de 700 ans, a été une terre d’asile pendant les conflits mondiaux qui ont frappe la vieille Europe.
(8.4) L’amour de la paix qui nous caractérise et notre volonté d’ouverture ont permis notre admission récente  dans les organisations internationales où nous voulons faire entendre nos inquiétudes, notre langue, notre  culture, conscients de ce que cela signifie d’être un “micro-Etat”. Sa situation géographique, en pleine chaîne  pyrénéenne, a dicté à Andorre sa vocation touristique, avec les échanges commerciaux et l’ouverture aux autres  cultures et aux autres langues qui en découlent. Situés entre la France qui exerce une forte influence politique et  culturelle et l’Espagne qui représente une forte présence humaine, nous sommes unis, de surcroît, à la  communauté catalane, de tradition culturelle s&ulaire. Ces contacts permanents avec nos voisins sont pour nous  source de richesse.
(8.5) On peut être petit et n’en être pas moins original. L’histoire et les caractéristiques institutionnelles  d’Andorre sont les éléments fondamentaux qui permettent d’expliquer la complexité de son système actuel  d’éducation. Trois systèmes d’enseignement y coexistent très naturellement, le français, l’espagnol et l’andorran,  créé il y a à peine dix ans, qui ont permis de donner une éducation gratuite à des générations d’enfants. Cette  mosaïque éducative a conduit les autorités à concevoir un processus d’asatiou dans le cadre d’un  programme commun mis en oeuvre dans les écoles françaises et espagnoles. Ce programme est fondé sur deux  principes de base : en premier lieu, par l’étude du catalan, de l’histoire, de la géographie et des institutions  d’Andorre, un élément commun est introduit dans les divers systèmes éducatifs précités, qui correspond aux  caractéristiques culturelles d’Andorre. En second lieu, cet enseignement se veut unificateur, c’est-à-due capable  de dispenser une instruction de qualité égale à tous les enfants scolarisés du pays. Ce programme est  actuellement en vigueur.
(8.6) Déjà, lors de mon premier gouvernement, en 1982, et devant la nécessité de préserver notre identité,  nous avons créé notre propre système d’enseignement qui a progressé malgré les obstacles. Nous aimerions  aujourd’hui que la communauté internationale reconnaisse la valeur des efforts consentis dans ce domaine. Pour  l’école andorrane, l’éducation est essentiellement un phénomène de nature sociale dont la finalité est de favoriser  le développement individuel des membres d’un groupe au sein de sa propre culture. L’étude des langues, élément  de culture par excellence, y occupe une place de premier plan.
(8.7) Avec la création d’une école d’infirmières, nous offrons un projet exportable, déjà implanté en Andorre.  En se fondant sur les directives de la Communauté européenne et sur les recommandations de I’OMS, et en  s’inspirant des programmes d’enseignement de l’Espagne et de la France, Andorre a créé des programmes qui  permettront d’adapter rapidement le système scolaire au monde du travail. En fusionnant les différents  programmes qui existent sur la planète et en les mettant en oeuvre, on pourrait favoriser le rapprochement du  monde de l’éducation et celui de la vie quotidienne.
(83) En s’ouvrant au monde, l’Andorre s’est consacrée et continue de se consacrer à l’étude de thèmes  essentiels pour l’humanité. L’an passé, l’Université d’été et, cette année, le cours de la Fédération mondiale pour  les études sur le futur se sont intéressés à la complexité de la communication et, essentiellemenf au traitement  de l’information dans les médias. La plupart du temps, la culture des citadins est pratiquement télévisuelle. C’est  une culture de l’image, de l’instantané, à la fois information et spectacle, qui joue de l’émotion du spectateur.  Tout va très vite, ce qui compte c’est de donner de plus en plus de nouvelles, au détriment de la réflexion. Ce  phénomène doit inciter tous les Etats, petits et grands, à penser à leur avenir, à ce qui est leur nature propre et à  la façon dont les peuples doivent communiquer entre eux et analyser les événements,
(8.9) Comme le Directeur général l’a souligné devant la présente assemblée, l’idée d’universalité qui doit  unir les peuples et les rapprocher les uns des autres ne doit pas trahir les petites cultures ni uniformiser les  valeurs propres à chaque peuple. Devant vous, je forme le voeu que mon pays devienne le cadre propice à une  telle réflexion, étant donné que, par sa petitesse et sa simplicité, caractéristiques qu’il revendique, notre pays  pourra favoriser la mise en oeuvre d’expériences nouvelles. Tout cela nous permet de continuer de rêver, et aussi  de travailler, en vue d’imaginer et de construire notre avenir afin que les projets modestes deviennent de belles  réalisations. Je vous remercie.
(9) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Principauté d’Andorre et je donne la parole à S. Ext.  M. Nicanor Duarte Frutos, ministre de l’éducation et des cultes et chef de la délégation du Paraguay.
(10.1) M. DUARTE PRUTOS (Paraguay) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, en ma qualité de chef de  la délégation du Paraguay, l’un des pays fondateurs de l’Organisation des Nations Unies et membre de  l’UNESCO depuis ses premières années, je tiens à vous dire combien le gouvernement et le peuple du Paraguay  sont sensibles aux efforts considérables et à l’action variée et multiforme que l’UNESCO a menés au cours de ses  bientôt 50 ans d’existence féconde ; je me permettrai d’insister plus spécialement sur sa fidélité louable et  constante a ses idéaux novateurs et à ses objectifs fondamentaux que sont la recherche fervente de la paix, la  défense sans concession de la justice et des droits de l’homme et l’action en faveur de la dignité toujours plus  grande de la personne humaine grâce à la science, à l’éducation et à la culture. Il est de bon augure que  l’UNESCO connaisse aujourd’hui une phase de restructuration institutionnelle et de modernisation administrative  grâce à laquelle elle est mieux armée pour affronter les problèmes nouveaux et complexes de notre époque :  l’explosion démographique des pays en développement, les grands mouvements migratoires internationaux dont  les causes sont à la fois politiques et économiques, la persistance et l’aggravation de la pauvreté à l’échelle  mondiale et l’inquiétante dégradation de l’environnement.
(10.2) D’autre part, d’ici à la fin du XXe siècle et au seuil du XXIe siècle, l’UNESCO devra relever de très  rudes défis dans un contexte international de changements imprévus et sans précédent qui donne le vertige. Les  responsables de la planète doivent faire face avec lucidité, courage et créativité à des situations nouvelles et  paradoxales, telles que le morcellement d’anciennes puissances et la naissance de nouveaux Etats, l’émergence  d’un pluralisme culturel contrastant avec un processus de mondialisation et de planétarisation d’une culture plus  humaine et plus solidaire, l’extraordinaire et formidable progrès scientifique et technique et le gouffre de l’écart  technologique qui sépare les pays avancés et les pays sous-développes et défavorisés. Nous vivons un moment  critique et crucial de défis, mais aussi de possibilités et d’horizons nouveaux, en raison de l’optimisme que  partagent les Etats membres ici présents, convaincus qu’un dialogue positif, une coopération fructueuse et une  solidarité authentique et généreuse les aideront à réussir leur entrée dans cette ère nouvelle où le sort les appelle  à jouer leur rôle avec audace et un renouveau d’espoir.
(10.3) Monsieur le Président, la reconnaissance du caractère pluri-ethnique et bilingue de la société  paraguayenne est le point de départ d’un projet d’éducation fondé sur le respect de notre richesse culturelle, qui  elle-même repose sur une identité ouverte au monde. L’aspiration au respect de notre culture autochtone et les  impératifs de la modernité sont à l’origine d’un conflit non encore réglé, mais manifeste et déclare. Notre  système éducatif doit être capable d’intégrer les différentes expressions culturelles et linguistiques de notre  société, et aussi de transmettre les valeurs de la coexistence démocratique.
(10.4) L’évolution civique et politique du Paraguay a traversé des étapes difficiles. Le gouvernement  autocratique renversé le 3 février 1989, fondé sur l’intolérance, l’absence de liberté et la destruction de l’esprit  critique, avait fait de notre système éducatif un instrument supplémentaire de domination politique et de  reconduction d’un système social injuste et humiliant. C’est ce que nous nous employons à transformer. Le  gouvernement du président Juan Carlos Wasmosy s’est fermement engagé à mettre en place un système  d’éducation capable de promouvoir le dialogue, le respect des opinions divergentes, de la liberté et de la  participation pluraliste. La société paraguayenne n’accepte plus que quelques ilhuninés parlent en son nom et  prétendent la représenter en se proclamant les détenteurs suprêmes de la vérité. L’heure est venue d’une  participation démocratique active.
(10.5) C’est la raison pour laquelle notre projet éducatif ne saurait demeurer une pure construction théorique.  Conçu à partir de notre réalité socioculturelle et en tenant compte de ses urgences absolues, il doit proposer des  solutions différentes et créatives qui puissent conduire à la libération de notre peuple. Nous sommes  profondément convaincus que le système d’éducation doit puiser aux sources de notre culture singulière et  originale et que celle-ci, loin de se refermer stérilement sur elle-même, doit s’ouvrir au contraire à la plénitude et  à la richesse de la culture universelle. Par ailleurs, dans un monde qui s’organise en grands blocs économiques,  la productivité ne peut atteindre le niveau d’excellence qu’impose la mondialisation et l’interdépendance de  l’économie sans un enseignement efficace. Le développement de la science et de la technologie est fondamental  pour que le pays tisse des liens avec les autres sociétés et les disparités enregistrées dans ce domaine conduisent  directement à l’impossibilid de sortir de l’impasse de la pauvreté.
(10.6) L’ancien régime dictatorial nous a légué un système d’éducation déplorable. Le vieux mythe d’une  progression géométrique de l’intégration de la population dans le système d’éducation disparaît aujourd’hui que  l’on dispose de chiffres réalistes, et c’est dramatique. Derrière le masque d’une propagande irresponsable nous  voyons aujourd’hui affleurer une sombre réalité qui nous bouleverse. La déperdition d’effectifs, tant à l’école  primaire que dans l’enseignement secondaire, est tout simplement alarmante. Les chiffres révèlent que le  Paraguay souffre d’une grave insuffisance dans le domaine de l’éducation. Et nous n’avons ni honte ni peur de le  dire, car le gouvernement du président Wasmosy oeuvre en toute transparence et honnêteté avec l’aide de  l’ensemble de la société civile pour surmonter les grandes diffkultés qui nous assaillent.
(10.7) Croyez-bien, Messieurs les délégués, qu’en reconnaissant la réalité telle qu’elle est, nous sommes  foncièrement honnêtes, sincères et objectifs. Nous ne nous réfugions pas dans une attitude alarmiste et un refus  craintif de relever ces défis. Au contraire, nous assumons la responsabilité de transformer et de redresser cette  situation Critique.
(10.8) A cet égard, nous mettons l’accent, en premier lieu, sur la tâche de décentralisation administrative en  nous efforçant d’en finir avec l’ancien schéma centralisateur, convenant certes à des objectifs de domination  politique, mais ne se prêtant guère à une organisation rationnelle et efficace. Ce souci de modernisation  correspond à un sens de la participation et doit déboucher sur l’instauration de nouveaux mécanismes de liaison  entre autorités départementales, municipales et communales.
(10.9) Notre deuxième projet est axé sur la formation du personnel enseignant. Il s’agit à cet égard non  seulement de l’acquisition des compétences techniques nécessaires, mais aussi de l’instauration d’un style  nouveau, qui doit devenir l’un des facteurs qui permettront de cimenter la société démocratique que nous  sommes en train de forger au Paraguay. Nous souhaitons ouvrir une ère nouvelle, une éducation nouvelle pour la  liberté et la démocratie, pour la vie et le travail. Nous aspirons à placer la personne humaine au coeur et à la  base de toute action tendant au développement qui devra être de nature à favoriser l’épanouissement harmonieux  et complet de la personnalité.
(10.10) Notre troisième projet consiste à mettre en oeuvre la réforme de l’enseignement. 11 s’agit en réalité d’un  nouveau programme d’études qui pourrait être appliqué à partir de l’an prochain. Cette tâche sera accomplie avec  le concours technique et intellectuel d’un conseil de la réforme de l’enseignement ainsi qu’avec la collaboration  des responsables de l’éducation et des enseignants qui oeuvrent avec une louable ténacité pour conduire la nation  vers un avenir meilleur.
(10.11) Le quatrième projet revêt un caractère éthique : nous nous efforçons de mettre en place l’infrastructure  administrative qui permettra une gestion transparente des ressources propre à restaurer la confiance, aussi bien à  l’intérieur du pays que dans les institutions financières internationales.
(10.12) Monsieur le Président, notre politique en matière d’éducation est un facteur déterminant du  développement global, qui ne doit pas être limité à un processus statistique enregistrant la progression des biens  et des services, mais être empreint d’un sens de la justice sociale et du respect de la dignité de la personne  humaine, parce qu’une société dans laquelle existent des phénomènes de marginalisation ne peut empêcher sa  propre marginalisation sur la scène internationale. Tous les pays ayant atteint un certain niveau de prospérité et  de développement y sont parvenus, non pas par l’exploitation de leur propre société, mais en faisant fond sur les
13  valeurs d’équité et de solidarité. Etre pauvre ce n’est pas tant manquer de biens qu’être injustement condamné  socialement à ne pas avoir sa part de la richesse produite par tous. Il convient, par conséquent, de souligner que  l’élimination de la pauvreté et du sous-développement passe principalement par une démocratisation de la  connaissance et des savoirs fondamentaux. De même, l’égalité des chances en matière d’éducation est  indispensable au renforcement des sociétés démocratiques nouvelles et au maintien de la paix sociale.
(10.13) Pour conclure, je voudrais réaffiier que nous avons besoin du concours des sociétés les plus  développées, lequel ne doit pas être un acte de charité mais un témoignage d’authentique solidarité et  d’interdépendance internationale afin que nous puissions dire qu’avec le soutien d’autres Etats et d’autres sociétés  nous construisons un nouveau Paraguay, plus libre, qui demeure fidèle à son identité culturelle tout en s’ouvrant  au reste du monde. Je vous remercie.
(11) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Paraguay et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Dan Haulica,  ambassadeur, délégué permanent auprès de l’UNESCO et chef de la délégation de la Roumanie.
12.1 M. HAULICA (Roumanie) :  Monsieur le Prkklent de la Conference génerale, Madame la présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délkgation, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, en  vous f&icitant, Monsieur le Prklent, comme tous mes collegues, je ne fais nullement un geste protocolaire. Si  l’év&rement de votre election s’harmonise avec une rtkente annonce d’espoir, dans une region longuement  dechiree, il me plaît de lire dans cette Clection l’Echo dune convergence qui vient de plus loin, Car c’était de VOS  contrees que la Reine de Saba etait partie pour rencontrer Salomon, dans une lumière de belle legende ; et  toujours du Côt6 de ces terres embaumees vinrent en l’Egypte pharaonique des aromes et des espèces inconnues,  apportant comme la promesse d’un mon& tlargi. Et comment oublier une ballade de noble fierte bédouine due  à l’un de nos plus populaires auteurs, Cosbuc, - le premier poème que j’aie récite ? Sunt, pas& neam de  beduin/Si de la Bab El-Mandeb vin/Sa-1 vând pe El-Zorab ! - Pacha, je suis fils de btklouin, et je viens & Bab  El-Mandeb/pour vendre El-Zorab (le coursier merveilleux que le heros aime avant tout et qu’il finit par tuer  lorsqu’on veut le lui arracher). Bien sûr, je ne m’identifie plus au pOeme, comme dans l’tmoi de la Premiere  rencontre, et je ne vends rien - l’espoir n’est pas a vendre, surtout lorsqu’il se veut constructif et lucide. Par  contre, l’espoir est toujours a réinventer - cette leçon tonique nous l’avons maintes fois dégagée, ces dernières  années, où il nous fut donne de voir au travail le Directeur gbnéral, Federico Mayor, sans jamais desemparer,  avec des ressources inouïes de souplesse et de généreuse initiative. L’avoir proclamC à 1’ unanimit6 notre  candidat, lors de la session du Conseil edcutif, c’était affumer notre foi dans l’avenir d’une oeuvre commune,  vaillamment menée. L’ampleur de nos taches - telles qu’il les a exposées ici - oblige a la persévkmce ; en  retournant le dicton - perseverare diabolicum - il en fait, au contraire, la cl6 de notre succbs. Et il y a un gage de  continuité qui s’etablit ainsi, confirmant la devise prononcte lors de son installation : “Le possible des hommes  de courage, c’est l’impossible des pusillanimes”.
12.2 Car il s’agit vraiment de mutations qui comptent, capables d’operer en profondeur et d’entraîner le  retour de l’UNESCO à son sens primordial, a sa fonction intellectuelle, au-del& des problèmes de stricte gestion.  Cet effort, que nous avons constamment salue et soutenu, rejoint les prémices historiques de l’UNESCO,  l’activité d’esprits éminents préfigurant à Genève, à la Commission de cooperation intellectuelle de la Sociétk  des Nations, ce qui devait devenir notre Organisation, après la guerre. Le Colloque international organise par  nous à Bucarest, autour d’Henri Focillon et de ses grands amis roumains, a legitimement remémoré ces appelé  pnkoces à la solidarité intellectuelle. Des textes annonciateurs, signes par Valery, Focillon et Opresco sont en  train maintenant d’entrer dans le circuit de nos organismes de presse ; ils sont sous les yeux des lecteurs du  Courrier de lUNESCO.
12.3 Dans cette voie, orientee vers l’essentiel, notre Organisation et son Conseil executif ont accompli un  travail ardu. Nous avons laisse derrière nous les fausses querelles qui bloquaient l’effkience de lUNESC0, le  duel des adversités idéologiques, avec sa symétrie prévisible et sttkilisante. Une vivacité sincère et vraie domine  maintenant les debats du Conseil executif, et entre les mains de sa Presidente, Marie Bernard-Meunier, le  consensus s’est aver plus qu’un recours difficile, mais legitime ; il est devenu, on peut dire, une Bégance  naturelle. La culture de la paix, dont l’initiative vous revient, Monsieur le Président, comporte, j’en suis  persuadé, une application a nous-mêmes, une culture du moi profond, qui nous fasse désapprendre les préjugés
469    et combler l’ignorance qui est source de graves frustrations. Des peuples entiers, hors l’Europe, que l’on avait  d&.&tés depourvus d’histoire et d’universalité, l’Am&ique qui Ctait un nondum, un “pas encore” pour Hegel  comme pour Auguste Comte, l’Australie que l’on avait oubliée dans la ronde magnifique des Parties du monde,  figurée par Carpeaux - toutes ces injustices reclament une contrepartie respectueuse t active. Le Desempire :  ainsi s’appelle, à juste titre, un livre r&ent sur le demantèlement de la mental& colonialiste ; “desempire”,  comme desapprendre - pour acquerir la santé mentale, exempte de suffisance et des piètres avatars du racisme.
12.4 L’ignorance, et la volonté de s’y installer, sont la source des plus cruels egarements, Dulce bellum  inexpertis - kcrivait il y a longtemps Erasme. Une culture efficace de la paix doit mobiliser en premier lieu les  moyens propres a l’éducation. Pour être une île de stabilite dans une partie de IEurope qui connaît d’incroyables  déchirements et des atteintes atroces aux droits élementaires des peuples, la Roumanie entend promouvoir une  oeuvre klucative de grande haleine. A l’encontre de la tendance inquietame qui s’est fait jour dernièrement en  de nombreux pays, notre budget national a enregistre, en 1993, pour le Minist&re de l’enseignement, une part  qui depasse de 40 milliards de Lei la part dévolue au Minist&re de la defense. Plus de 6 % du produit intérieur  brut va à l’éducation, où la Reforme s’est forgée un Conseil national, un Departement central, des agences  regionales sous la forme de noyaux d’innovation et un reseau d’ecoles-pilotes, pour soutenir cette impulsion  positive dans chacun des 41 départements du pays, Ce programme de reforme, juge parmi les plus cohérents de  l’Europe centrale et du Sud-Est, met clairement l’accent sur les instruments de comprehension, sur  l’apprentissage des langues 6trangères. Des lyckes Cervantes et Dante Alighieri, en espagnol et italien, une  école américaine et une École française, un lycée allemand, une tkole du Conseil de l’Europe, construite sur  l’idee de l’intégration europeenne à Timisoara, une université et une section de l’Ecole polytechnique en  français et en anglais, illustrent cet effort soutenu par l’Etat. La moitié des colonies de vacances sont organisées  de telle manière qu’elles puissent familiariser les enfants, en jouant, avec les langues Ctrangères. Le même  besoin de compréhension, au-de& des barrieres linguistiques, soutient le programme des étudiants Ctrangers, en  depit des diffïcultes tïnancibres que traverse le pays : a l’intention surtout des étudiants provenant d’Afrique, un  système de bourses, obtenues par concours, a été mis en place par le Ministère des affaires Ctrangères, le  Ministère de l’enseignement, le Ministère de la culture et la Fondation culturelle roumaine. Enfin, le  rayonnement de ces efforts englobe l’Universite de la mer Noire, qui conjugue une problematique complexe et  repond a l’initiative même de l’UNESCO, choisissant comme siege le littoral roumain, pour une action de  formation civique ou se rencontrent les femmes de plusieurs pays europeens, Roumanie et Fédération de Russie,  mais aussi France et Belgique.
12.5 Non seulement Médie, farouche féministe avant la lettre, avait foule ces terres, voyageant sur les  chemins du mythe, du Caucase à la mer Noire en remontant le Danube, mais des théoriciens de grande acuité  comme Simone Weil ont vu la naissance de la geste epique dans l’errance où les gens s’arrachent aux tombes.  La première victoire de l’homme sur les dieux, ce serait de les obliger a voyager. Voyage mental à notre époque,  dans la logique relativiste d’une connaissance mutuelle, qui rebondit sur nos attentes contemporaines ; c’est le  thème d’un grand débat que le Comité national de la DCcennie mondiale du developpement culturel prepare  chez nous, sur “Culture, religion et démocratie”. Un autre colloque se propose d’examiner le sort des  totalitarismes a I’ere de l’Europe, et leurs prolongements culturels, dans une réflexion objective et loyale.
12.6 Au-delà de toute aigreur ou incredulité, il nous semble precieux, dans ces démarches, de respecter les  differences, ce que Segalen, le grand poète de l’exotisme, appelait “l’immense source d’énergie” qu’est le  Divers ; et en même temps, de saisir la profonde complementarite de ces zones distinctes, de ces versants géo-  culturels. Plutôt que le véhicule previsible d’une opposition, comme dans la dialectique traditionnelle de  l’Europe, antl me rappelle un tel versant ; celui qui, dans la vieille gbographie poétique des Incas, etait le  domaine de la selva amazonienne, de la germination irrepressible, qui se composait avec les autres cléments -  avec les hauteurs andines, cunti, avec la côte de I’ocCau, chincha, et avec la pampa, kolla, pour former,  complementaires, tous les quatre, I’univers.
12.7 Multiculturelle et globalisante, notre expérience ne doit jamais avoir comme visée la dénationalisation  de la culture. Les échanges multinationaux ne doivent nullement porter atteinte a la personnalité de chaque  culture, mais, au contraire, lui infuser un clan nouveau : “la voie vers lEspagne passe par l’Europe” soutenait  Ortega y Gasset, dans sa fameuse publication Revista de Occidente. Mais ce paradoxe lwnineux ne justifie pas  les amalgames desinvoltes : cette voie passe par l’Europe, non pas pour tgarer l’Espagne, mais pour la mieux  retrouver, dans sa plus grave vitalite cr&.rice. Si la solidarité intellectuelle a encore un sens, si la culture n’est  pas un vain mot, il faut y voir un rkservoir de liberté et de réflexion critique, ayant le courage de s’attaquer aux  problèmes vrais de la nation et de repondre aux defis contemporains. Ce n’est pas a travers une commode fuite  des cerveaux que l’on peut combattre l’étroitesse nationaliste et les intol&a.nces ; ce n’est pas à travers une
13  désappropriation du savoir que l’on peut conforter les intellectuels dans leur quête de la dignite. Temoins d’une  histoire qu’ils sont seuls à incorporer lucidement, les intellectuels sont aux prises avec le déferlement  d’offensives de divers dinosaures, de plus en plus arrogantes, de plus en plus ineptes.
12.8 La d6fense des langues nous tient à coeur - elle plonge dans les racines ontologiques que Heidegger  avait désignees - la langue comme “maison de l’être”. Car les langues repr&entent non seulement des  instruments conventionnels de communication, mais aussi des realités historico-naturelles, attachees a une  irremplaçable richesse. Les tentatives de réduction arbitraire des langues officielles à l’UNESCO contiennent le  risque dune grave perte de substance et de v&id dans notre travail ; elles appauvriraient en plus le contexte de  nécessaire et cordiale confiance que l’UNESCO a reussi a etablir dans ses rapports int&ieurs, au fil des années.  On a entendu à ce sujet des mises en garde p&cises dans nos instances. Je dois affirmer ici, au nom de l’union  latine dont je suis le President, la même preoccupation concernant l’emploi des langues d’origine latine.  Organisation intergouvemementale groupant 29 pays qui ont comme langue commune ou officielle des idiomes  romans, l’Union latine s’est exprimee - encore une fois - sur ce point, il y a quelques jours a Rio de Janeiro, lors  dune Rencontre des Académies appartenant a son espace - depuis l’Espagne, le Portugal, l’Italie et la Roumanie  jusqu’à l’Argentine, l’Uruguay, le P&ou, le Mexique et le Brésil.
12.9 Partout, on ne peut approcher la diversité d’après des grilles r&luctives. Une logique simplement  productiviste, par exemple la religion du rendement tout court, ne saurait jamais couvrir les modèles  anthropologiques de sociétes dont les assises rustiques sont millenaires : la maniére de mettre ensemble ordre et  joie, don genereux de la fête et effcacite cumulative. Le Corbusier, traversant notre pays en route vers l’Orient,  en 1911, note dans sa correspondance le bonheur de ces journees detendues, le goût de participation intense à la  vie, qu’il surprend à son alentour, et il les resume par une formule inoubliable : “Bucarest, dit-il, est un  dimanche toute la semaine”.
12.10 La fête, qui met l’art au service de la vie, qui en fait une dimension d’epanouissement exemplaire, nous  conduit vers un domaine où l’UNESCO commence a regagner son rôle : je n’en veux pour exemple que les  oeuvres ayant valeur de signal qui font heureusement leur entree dans notre environnement - hier Jacobsen,  aujourd’hui l’acuité éolienne de Takis ; ou l’hommage à Miro, lune des présences tutélaires de cette maison, que  nous allons amplement c&brer le 22 novembre pour son centenaire. Si l’UNESCO doit se faire plus visible,  non seulement credible, dans sa demarche de refondation, il faut qu’elle se fie plus ouvertement à l’image, au  dialogue entre l’image et les trésors de la connaissance. Les occasions ne manquent pas, le Centenaire du  cinéma en sera l’une des plus opportunes, celle de faire le bilan d’un art qui pourrait fournir des documents  indispensables, de haute qualité, sur nombre de nos r&lisations qui meriteraient une survie Cclatante et qui  passent, hélas, presque inaperçues. Le projet ellabore par le Forum de reflexion suppose, lui aussi, un recours  autrement hardi a l’image, au-delà de ce que furent jusqu’à maintenant les limites de notre pratique.
12.11 Un certain sentiment du concret serait, d’ailleurs, très profitable a notre travail, dont les enoncés  empruntent, de plus en plus, une allure compliquée et aride. Issus d’un laborieux travail de la part du  Secr&ariat, nos documents se cachent trop sous des numeros de code rebarbatifs et desséch6s. Cette aura  d’indications cryptiques me fait quelquefois penser a l’artifice tenace de certains systèmes d’equivalence propres  à la vieille poésie orientale. Tel poète iranien remplaçant les m&aphorew5preuves, dans l’eloge de la femme,  par un chiffre convenu, où, par exemple, “cent” est le terme pour “chevelure”, - parce que c’est le nombre obligé  des qualités que peut avoir la chevehrre de la bien-aimee - ; et “dix-neuf’ 6quivaut à “la beau@, parce que c’est  le nombre des chapitres où on la decrit d’habitude. Mais là où l’imagination savait ingénument pallier l’artifice,  nous nous trouvons avec une pédanterie sans arrière-plan symbolique, obstacle inerte entre l’enonce et la  matière souvent brûlante qui en est l’objet. Que Dieu nous donne la force de surmonter ce penchant pour la  complication administrative et de nous attaquer aux problèmes dans un style qui puisse passer la rampe et  toucher un public dont l’audience nous serait indispensable !
12.12 Car le Projet de programme et de budget, tel qu’il se presente devant la Conférence gCnérale, traduit  des options qui ont et6 longuement mûries, et exigent d’être defendues, dans l’intérêt de notre commune  progression. Nous y voyons la perspective d’une avancée qui inspire de nouveaux ralliements a l’UNESCO,  dans le souci d’universalité inspirant notre strategie et notre exploration ces dernières annees. Si “la pensée  remonte les fleuves” - comme disait le Directeur géneral en citant Ramuz - s’il lui est donné de rêver, en termes  audacieux, non seulement I’avenir mais aussi le passé, pour qu’il ne s’effrite pas fossilise - faire nôtre cet appel,  c’est toucher aux cimes d’où l’on découvre la perspective la plus saisissante. Le pèlerinage vers ces hauteurs,  Romain Rolland - a propos de Michel-Ange - l’entendait comme un devoir, une fois au moins dans l’annke pour  embrasser l’heroïsme de la grande creation. Mais il n’y a pas de calendrier ni de limite pour les étendues de la
471    crkativitk humaine, elles engendrent sans fm l’espérance : comme un ocban qui secrète toujours, même  nuitamment, de la lumière.
(13) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Roumanie et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Mohamed  Charfi, ministre de l’éducation et des sciences et chef de la délégation de la Tunisie.
(14.1) M. CHARFJ (Tunisie) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, c’est pour moi un honneur de  vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, mes félicitations pour la confiance que vous ont témoignée les délégués.  Je tiens à remercier la Présidente et les membres du Conseil exécutif pour les efforts qu’ils ont fournis durant les  deux dernières années et à exprimer ma très grande estime à M. le Directeur général ainsi qu’aux membres du  Secrétariat général pour le travail qu’ils ont accompli conformément aux programmes et aux projets de  l’UNESCO. Je saisis aussi cette occasion pour féliciter M. Federico Mayor de son élection par le Conseil  exécutif pour un second mandat. La Tunisie a soutenu sa candidature au sein du groupe arabe et elle est certaine  que la Conférence générale entérinera ce choix.
(14.2) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la conviction profonde de la Tunisie est que les  mutations que connaît notre monde, mutations qui ont diminué les distances et réduit les différences, n’ont de  sens que si elles nous permettent de vraiment nous rapprocher et de promouvoir notre humanité en lui ouvrant  des horizons plus vastes et plus fructueux. En fait, ce qui importe, ce n’est pas seulement que le monde change et  que s’y développent les modes de vie mais que son évolution soit une progression, c’est-à-dire une élévation vers  l’idéal auquel nous croyons. Le progrès matériel, sous toutes ses formes, se mesure à l’aune des grandes valeurs  sur lesquelles il se guide, valeurs qui confèrent aux faits un sens, à savoir faire accéder l’existence humaine à un  niveau supérieur de l’échelle des valeurs de liberté, de démocratie et de droits de l’homme.
(14.3) Aussi la Tunisie croit-elle que l’humanité a atteint aujourd’hui un degré de conscience et de maturité  propre à lui permettre d’agir efficacement sur l’histoire de telle sorte que sa volonté soit érigée en loi orientant le  cours des événements avec une détermination non moins opérante que celle de l’effet de la cause naturelle sur le  cours des choses. Nous espérons fermement que cette action, associée à la détermination et à la persévérance,  conduira à l’instauration entre les êtres humains, individus et peuples, de rapports plus justes ainsi qu’à la
473    diffusion universelle des valeurs du civisme moderne et à l’enracinement de la culture de la paix et de l’esprit de  fraternité humaine.
(14.4) La Tunisie est heureuse de constater la convergence de ses efforts avec les principes sur lesquels a été  fondée l’UNESCO, principes fondamentalement humains ayant une valeur universelle et orientés vers l’avenir.  Rien ne le prouve mieux que l’attention accordée dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1994-1995 à  Wducation et l’avenir”, programme qui donne corps à l’action que mène l’UNESCO pour aider à édifier des  systèmes éducatifs capables d’assurer une éducation de base pour tous, d’éliminer l’analphabétisme et de préparer  les jeunes à faire face aux défis du monde de demain en leur inculquant les valeurs et les vertus nécessaires pour  construire la démocratie à laquelle aspire aujourd’hui l’humanité tout entière, et en les dotant des compétences et  des aptitudes indispensables pour mener à bien le développement et combattre les causes de la pauvreté.
(14.5) La Tunisie est fière d’avoir choisi dès le début de son ère nouvelle, avec clairvoyance et détermination,  une voie qui associe intimement la mise en place des conditions dune société civile démocratique aux moyens  du développement global. Dans cette optique, elle a fait de l’école le fer de lance du changement civilisationnel  qu’elle recherche et elle a, en conséquence, mis ceux qui y travaillent au premier rang des préoccupations de  l’Etat, dans le cadre d’une réforme globale et approfondie du système éducatif. Cette réforme vise entre autres à  assurer le développement de la personne humaine sur le plan théorique, pratique et affectif, à former des  citoyens libres et responsables et à édifier des capacités de production susceptibles de répondre aux exigences du  développement intégré.
(14.6) Nous nous félicitons de l’étroite coopération qui existe entre la Tunisie et l’UNESCO, coopération qui a  les mêmes objectifs que ceux que visent le système éducatif et de politique culturelle de mon pays. C’est dans ce  cadre qu’en novembre dernier, la Tunisie a organisé, en collaboration avec lIJNBSC0, un forum international  sur l’éducation pour la démocratie, initiative couronnée d’un succès qui devrait encourager à persister dans cette  voie.
(14.7) A cette occasion, la Tunisie a pr6senté une proposition tendant à l’établissement d’une grille définissant  les concepts et les valeurs que doit comporter tout manuel scolaire destiné à préparer les jeunes à une vie civique  démocratique. Nous nous employons à faire en sorte que nos programmes et manuels scolaires puissent aider les  jeunes à s’imprégner des valeurs de liberté des peuples et des individus, d’égalité des sexes, d’émancipation de la  femme et d’égalité entre elle et l’homme tant pour ce qui est des droits que des obligations. Une telle grille  aiderait sans nul doute chaque responsable gouvernemental à repérer les déficiences des programmes et des  manuels scolaires et à y remédier. Elle aiderait en outre les observateurs neutres à déterminer l’adéquation des  actes aux discours et celle des moyens éducatifs aux choix politiques.
(14.8) Je voudrais aujourd’hui vous inviter à poursuivre la réflexion sur cette proposition, dans l’espoir de  vous voir prendre une position de nature à faciliter la propagation de l’esprit civique moderne et des idéaux  d’égalité, de liberté et des droits de l’homme. Je tiens aussi à réaffirmer que nous sommes disposés à élargir le  champ de notre coopération avec l’UNESCO pour le bien de l’humanité et la paix dans le monde.
(14.9) Au moment où la Tunisie s’efforce d’enraciner les traditions démocratiques et de propager l’esprit  civique moderne parmi ses enfants et de favoriser la paix et la fraternité entre les peuples, elle exprime sa  satisfaction de voir le conflit palestino-israélien déboucher sur un rapprochement honorable, point de départ  dune solution pacifique qui sera, nous le souhaitons, plus globale et plus juste.
(14.10) Je n’ai pas besoin de vous rappeler le rôle d’avant-garde qu’a joué la République tunisienne en faveur  de nos frères palestiniens et pour concrétiser les espoirs dune humanité éprise de paix et de justice et faire en  sorte que l’avenir de toute la région soit meilleur que son présent. A n’en pas douter, cette victoire accroît notre  détermination à renforcer notre soutien à tous ceux qui oeuvrent pour la paix dans le monde et en particulier  pour mettre fin à la tragédie que subit le peuple de Bosnie-Herzégovine. Nous espérons que les parties au conflit  parviendront à une solution juste, fondée sur le droit et la légalité internationale.
(14.11) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, notre souci est d’approfondir la réflexion concernant  les moyens de développer les structures de l’UNESCO et de faire en sorte que cette Organisation reste  universelle, rassemblant en son sein tous les Etats. Cela exige que nous nous consultions à propos de tous les  problèmes qui sont actuellement posés. Pour ce faire, nous devons procéder à une analyse rigoureuse et sereine  de toutes les questions aussi complexes soient-elles, afin que la réflexion se caractérise par le sérieux nécessaire  pour cerner les voies de l’avenir, un avenir que nous souhaitons prospère tant pour l’UNESCO que pour tous les  Etats membres. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, merci de votre attention.
(1% Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation tunisienne et je donne la parole à S. Ekc. M. Alberto Ronchey,  ministre des biens culturels et de l’environnement et chef de la délbgation de l’Italie.
16.1 M. RONCHEY (Italie) :  Monsieur le Président, veuillez tout d’abord accepter mes felicitations pour votre élection qui garantit  le bon deroulement de nos travaux. En me félicitant également de l’adhesion des nouveaux Etats membres, je  salue chaleureusement les représentants du Kazakhstan, de la Slovenie, de la Republique de Moldova, de la  Croatie, du Kirghizistan, de l’Azerbaïdjan, de l’Arménie, de la Géorgie, de la Slovaquie, de la République  Tcheque, du Tadjikistan, de la Bosnie-Herzkgovine, de l’ex-Republique yougoslave de Mackdoiue, du  Turkmtkistan, de IErythree, des Iles Salomon, de l’Andorre, de l’Ouzbékistan et de Nioué.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, nous savons tous l’importance de cette conference qui nous réunit aujourd’hui, &  une epoque de grands changements. Nous avons vu se dissoudre n quelques aunees des systèmes de pouvoir et  des idéologies que l’on croyait inébranlables. Nous dkcouvrons un nouveau monde, mais l’instabilité qui nous  entoure brise l’enthousiasme provoqué par la fin de la guerre froide. Cependant, la confiance demeure. Nous  continuons de croire que de tels évenements ont maîtrisables grâce aux efforts de l’Organisation des Nations  Unies et de ses institutions sp&ialist?es, qui conservent un rôle essentiel. Les forums multilat&aux de  coopération culturelle se révblent être les seuls instruments pour aborder les problemes lies à l’implosion du  communisme, à savoir la fragilité des nouvelles démocraties, les diffkences profondes qui opposent les nations  pauvres du Sud aux Etats riches du Nord, #migration incontrôlable, qui est le prétexte de conflits  interethniques et de manifestations de racisme grandissant. Heureusement, les perspectives de paix qui viennent  de s’ouvrir dans le bassin oriental de la MCditerranee constituent un signe d’encouragement.
16.3 Nous soutenons avec conviction, a cet égard, la politique de M. Federico Mayor, qui sera certainement  confiie à la Direction générale de l’UNESCO par le vote unanime de cette assembl&e. Nous souhaitons qu’il  suive le chemin trace. Mais nous esperons egalement qu’il r&lisera son programme grâce a une meilleure  sélection des projets, eu tenant compte de leur impact et des résultats atteints. Puisqu’il s’agit de répondre aux  besoins locaux, la d&emralisation des activitis doit être encouragke. La restructuration du ROSIE (Bureau  regional de science de technologie pour l’Europe, à Venise) ayant pour but, entre autres, le “Programme pour le  développement de l’Europe centrale et orientale” (PROCEED), va déja dans cette direction. Le gouvernement  italien est disposé à contribuer à ces initiatives, car la valorisation du potentiel scientifique de l’Europe de l’Est  est une tâche essentielle daus la coopération avec les pays du Sud, qui est toujours au centre de nos  préoccupations, comme le prouve le financement du Centre international de physique théorique de Trieste, dont  les trois quarts des chercheurs appartiennent aux pays en voie de développement.
16.4 Mais il y a d’autres raisons de soutenir le programme de l’UNESCO, Après avoir adheré aux nouvelles  stratégies des Nations Unies concernant les problémes du developpement, l’Italie, qui a deja fourni une  assistance dans des domaines prioritaires, s’est engagde plus spécifiquement dans la promotion des facteurs  endogenes de développement. Elle occupe ainsi la troisième place parmi les contributeurs volontaires aux  projets UNESCO qui visent ce but. En particulier, depuis la Conference de Jomtien, nous avons poursuivi une  politique plus ferme dans le domaine de l’éducation de base, car il s’agit là de la condition prioritaire du  developpement. C’est pourquoi nous avons coop&e, en Afrique et au Moyen-Orient, aux initiatives concernant  le programme de l’Institut international de planification de l’Éducation et du Bureau international d’éducation,  dans le cadre du Forum sur l’éducation pour tous.
16.5 L’Italie s’est d‘ailleurs engagée à promouvoir d’autres facteurs de développement, comme la mise en  valeur du patrimoine, la connaissance scientifique et la communication. Je veux souligner, a cet égard, qu’il est  impensable, à notre avis, que des mesures administratives uffisent pour faire face a l’immigration de masse. Il  faut choisir, au contraire, des stratégies d’intervention qui permettent de créer, dans les lieux d’origine, les  conditions de développement d’un potentiel humain qui soit à même de promouvoir une croissance ndogène.  Notre gouvernement suit avec beaucoup d’intérêt le programme MOST (gestion des transformations ociales),  puisqu’il faut agir sur les dynamiques culturelles du dbveloppement, afin de parvenir à des résultats durables.  Mais toute culture sans communication serait un privilège st&ile. L’Italie soutient, partant, le Programme  international pour le développement de la communication ainsi que les programmes d’informatique et  d’information, qui ont pour but, entre autres, l’essor dune presse indépendaute en Afrique, la liaison  informatisee des centres scientifiques africains, la conservation des archives et des bibliotht‘ques. Autant  d’instruments du monde moderne mis au service du développement des peuples.
16.6 L’objectif de l’UNESCO est la promotion de la vie culturelle. La sauvegarde des identites culturelles  doit alimenter les khanges et s’alimenter des Cchanges. C’est une ddmarche complexe par laquelle la &fense  du patrimoine doit s’unir à la gestion des ressources. L’UNESCO est le laboratoire idéal pour lancer des  initiatives de g&&osité, Venise en témoigne, et pour lutter contre le trtic illégal des biens culturels. L’Italie  doit conserver un patrimoine immense et difficile à gérer, mais elle garde en même temps une attitude  d’ouverture permettant de combiner le souci & la valorisation avec le dynamisme qui caractérise le  cosmopolitisme contemporain. C’est Ià le principe inspirateur de notre politique dans les negociations  communautaires ur la circulation des biens, et dans les nbgociations avec l’UNIDROIT. C’est le même principe  qui inspire notre action au sein de l’UNBSC0. Or, l’intérêt manifeste a ce sujet par la dernière Conférence  g&&ale correspond à nos attentes. Nous pensons que la reflexion en cours pourra devenir op&ationnelle a  travers le Centre pour le patrimoine mondial, qui devrait explorer les potentialitis des instruments juridiques en  vigueur et celles des autres centres spécialids en matière de patrimoine culturel et naturel (I’ICCROM,  I’ICOMOS, I’ICOM, I’UICN). Consciente des responsabilids & la communauté internationale à Wgard de  l’identiti historique des peuples, l’Italie soutient d’importantes operations de conservation du patrimoine dans le  monde entier, à Fez par exemple, ou dans l’ancienne Syrie, a Zanzibar, Angkor et dans le palais royal  d’ Aborne y.
16.7 Monsieur le Prksident, lWargissement de notre Organisation et le retour possible des Etats-Unis et de  la Grande-Bretagne donnent à l’UNESCO une nouvelle perspective universelle, 31 condition ntanmoins qu’a  l’universalité des Etats corresponde l’universalité de la culture. Nous devons donc relancer le rôle des  commissions nationales et imaginer des demarches qui facilitent la rencontre des instances locales et des projets  de l’UNESCO. Nous appr&ions les efforts dont le nouveau programme tt?moigne pour faire face aux urgences  de notre temps. Mais nous savons que le rythme des événements nous impose des réponses opportunes. Voila  pourquoi nous sommes favorables B l’accroissement des pouvoirs du Directeur gCnéral dans la gestion des  situations d’urgence. Solution raisonnable a court terme, qui laisse cependant ouverte la question de savoir s’il  n’est pas temps pour l’UNESCO de repenser sa tâche et ses options. Je crois qu’une occasion utile pour y  r@ondre serait la Conférence propos& par le gouvernement portugais pour l’an& prochaine.
16.8 Monsieur le President, la population mondiale augmente chaque jour de 254.000 êtres humains.  L’environnement se détériore a un rythme exponentiel. De nouvelles pauvret& s’ajoutent aux anciennes.  L’analphab&isme touche un milliard d’adultes, dont les deux tiers sont des femmes, hélas, auxquelles j’espke  que la prochaine Conférence de Pékin rendra justice. La montee des prejugés liés a la race, a l’ethnie et a la  nationalite impose une réflexion profonde sur la notion de tol&ance qui marque, dans le pr&mbule de la  Charte des Nations Unies, le chemin de la paix. Aussi, renouant avec l’une des ities inspiratrices de cette  Organisation, l’Italie donne-t-elle son appui au projet relatif & la dlébration par l’Organisation des Nations  Unies, en 1995, de l’Ann& internationale de la tolérance.
16.9 La Commission nationale italienne est en train d’examiner des initiatives qui visent à garantir le  succès du programme Ian& a Los Angeles et à enraciner dans la conscience des peuples l’aspiration a la paix.  La tâche est immense. Pour y faire face nous avons besoin de l’engagement de tous. A cet égard, il nous paraît  indispensable que les Etats-Unis, la Grande-Bretagne t Singapour reviennent au plus tôt dans notre famille.  Nous devons tous, en effet, participer aux travaux d’une Organisation liberée des bureaucraties et des  idéologies, prête à saisir les inquietudes qui animent nos socit%s et à les traduire dans une action fondée sur la  compréhension des peuples, la solidarit6 et l’espoir.
16.10 Permettez-moi une dernière reflexion. Demain, a Rome, dans la Basilique de Sainte-Marie des Anges,  aura lieu une cCremonie d’adieu à Federico Fellini. Je crois interpr&er le sentiment de la communaut6 culturelle  internationale que nous repr&entons en vous invitant à rendre un dernier hommage à cet immense crbateur à  l’absence duquel nous ne pouvons nous résigner. Le gCnie et la vitalité de l’oeuvre de Federico Fellini resteront  toujours parmi nous. Le d&arroi que la disparition de ce grand créateur a suscité dans le monde entier  timoigne de l’universalid atteinte par son art et d’une gratitude profonde pour le patrimoine d’émotions,  d’images et de rêves qu’il nous laisse. Je vous remercie.
(17) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le ministre italien des biens culturels et de l’environnement.
13  MESSAGE A MME GIULIETTA MASSINA ET AU PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE ITALIENNE  A LA SUITE DU DECES DE FEDERICO FELLINI  MESSAGE TO MRS GIULIETTA MASSINA AND TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC  ON THE DEATH OF FEDERICO FELLINI  MENSAJE A LA SRA. GIULIETI’A MASSINA Y AL PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA DE ITALIA  CON MOTIVO DEL FALLECIMIENTO DE FEDERICO FELLINI  I-IOCJIAHHE I’OCIIOXE jQKYJIbE7T.E MACCHHE R IIPE3kIAEHTY WTAJIbRHCKOfi  PECIIYBJIHKH B CBII3kl C KOHWIHOti QEflEPPIKO QEJTJIkIHY3  W%JJ &&l&> JIJ L+A l+J* i&Jl y” h& ULM, Lb$
(18) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, le grand cinéaste italien Federico Fellini n’est plus. Comme vous le savez, il  est décédé le dimanche 31 octobre 1993 à Rome. Ses nombreux films, devenus des classiques, sont porteurs d’un  précieux message universel de liberté et de créativité. Dans son oeuvre, réel et imaginaire sont indissolublement  liés. Sa contribution à la culture de ce siècle est immense. Sa lucidité est exemplaire et son travail témoigne  d’une personnalité forte, faite de rigueur et de générosité tout à la fois. Je donne maintenant la parole à M. le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO.
19.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président, je veux simplement informer la Conférence génerale que, après l’annonce du  décès de Federico Fellini, le télégramme suivant a et6 adressé a Mme Giulietta Massina : “C’est avec une  profonde emotion et une grande tristesse que nous avons appris le décès de Federico Fellini. La puissance  créatrice et vitale, hors du commun, dont il a fait preuve jusqu’à la fin de sa vie, est à l’image de toute son  oeuvre. Je veux, par ce message, Madame, rendre hommage à un créateur deja légendaire qui a contribué a  donner au cinéma ses lettres de noblesse, et a cr6er dans cet art un style propre a engendrer un monde magique  qui peuplera a jamais nos imaginaires. Federico Fellini nous Egue un patrimoine, un savoir-faire et surtout une  morale. Nous allons bientôt fêter le centenaire du cinema. Il nous fera cruellement défaut. Nous veillerons, a  cette occasion, à lui faire parmi nous la place qu’il mérite. Si le cinema possède ses classiques, Federico Fellini  en fait à jamais partie. En vous adressant mes sincères condoleances, je vous prie de croire, Madame, à  l’expression de ma profonde sympathie.”
19.2 J’ai egalement envoyé une lettre au Président Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, président de la Republique  italienne. Enfin, je voudrais informer la Conference génerale que cet après-midi, lors de la manifestation  prevue dans le cadre du centenaire du cinema, nous allons rendre hommage au grand createur qu’etait Federico  Fellini. Merci Monsieur le President.
(20.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci, Monsieur le Directeur général. Mesdames et Messieurs, vous venez d’entendre le Directeur  genéral vous donner lecture d’un message, Je propose, si vous êtes d’accord, d’envoyer ce message au nom de la  Conférence générale.
(20.2) Je ne vois pas d’objection. Je vous remercie. Ce texte sera donc envoyé au nom de la Conférence  générale.
(20.3) Je vous demande maintenant d’observer une minute de silence a la mémoire du disparu.  (La Confkrence gt%érale observe une minute de silence)  DEBAT DE POIJI’IQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (contiuued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continua&%)  OBCYX,IIEHHE BOIIPOCOB OBIIIEI?I IIOJIMTHKH (upo~osrmeuue)  (&) LWI L-Jr UL  ,EBR%ti ( 8 )
(21) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, je donne maintenant la parole à l’orateur suivant, S. Fkc. Mme Fiame Naomi  Mataafa, ministre de l’éducation et chef de la délégation du Samoa.
22.1 MS MATAAFA (Western Samoa):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads  of delegations, representatives of international, regional sud non-goverumental orgauizations, ladies sud  gentlemen, aIlow me to joiu our distinguished colleagues in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election  to guide this hventy-seventh session of UNESCO’s General Conference. 1 wish you wisdom aud courage as you  carry the burden of guiding this complex task to what we do not doubt Will be a successful conclusion. 1 bring  you greetings from my Government and the people of Western Samoa, and 1 also join previous speakers in  welcoming our new members, especially our Pacifie members, Niue and the Solomon Islands.
22.2 Mr President, let me star-t Samoa’s statement by putting it to you, ladies and gentlemen that the single  most tragic global threat currently hanging over us is the threat to the highest human value - that of the right to  life. In this last decade of the twentieth century we have welcomed the end of the Cold War and we bave  wimessed a continuous commitment to disarmament. We have vigorously pursued the unity of the planetary  community to participate in international co-operation with the United Nations; yet, in the release into freedom  and our expectation of a smooth transition to democracy, we fïnd ourselves unprepared for the rise in  national& religious and ethnie strife which has jeopardized that highest of human values, the right to life.  Whole civilizations and cultures are threatened.
22.3 Mr President, this Organization is known for its efforts for the preservation of nationally and culturally  important monuments and works of art. The Organization must cal1 for more and even greater efforts to re-  awaken the Will, the courage and the desire to preserve human life, just as the founders of UNESCO grappled  with the building of the defences of peace in the minds of men in order to avoid tbe further loss of human life  after the Second World War. Equally life-threatening, Mr President, are the consequences of man’s activities  on the environment. The gradual degradation of the environment had led to frequent natural disasters, such as  floods, drought, hurricanes and SO on. Natural disasters not only take life but leave those fortunate enough not  to perish in an unfortunate situation of homelessness, hunger and despair. Samoa has had no less than three  major hurricanes in the last three years; many Member States have not fared any better with otber natural  disasters. For far too long the struggle for economic development hrough industrialization has led to grave
13  neglect of the need to protect the environment. The Organization must, therefore, continue to rally and  consolidate international support to ‘build the defences of peace with nature’.
22.4 Mr President, this is a turning-point in history and UNESCO Will do well not to miss this golden  opportunity to accomplish its mandate, for 1 truly believe that, of all United Nations agencies, UNESCO, with  its field of competence, will find solutions to our problems. Information and knowledge-sharing Will reduce the  gap between the North and South; education and culture Will foster the understanding that brings peace and  harmony between nations and within nations; education and science Will bring us peace with the environment  which is the foundation of life. UNESCO’s track record of the last four and a haIf decades reflects a forward-  looking institution in its achievements in its areas of competence, for, despite the rapid changes in the world of  today, UNESCO is finally rising to its ultimate aim of peace for man in harmony with his foundation of life.
22.5 Mr President, the flag of UNESCO is very much visible in the Pacifie. Eleven Pacifïc Member States  testify to this visibility. Pacifïc island nations are small, isolated island States with small populations and  because of this we have our specific needs which are by no means small. 1 aclmowledge with gratitude the  provision by the Organization of support for the Pacifie delegates to enable them to participate in and share our  views with you, ladies and gentlemen, at this General Conference of UNESCO.
22.6 As you are aware Mr President, the UNESCO Office for the Pacifie States is located in the capital of  my country - Apia, Western Samoa. The Apia Office was founded in 1984 and, since its beginnings, it has  never had a full complement of advisers. However, by December 1993, the Apia Office Will, for the fïrst time,  thanks to the Diiector-General, have the complete contingent of advisers, namely, the Education Adviser and  Chief of Mission, Culture Adviser, Science Adviser, and Communications Adviser. Complete staffing has corne  in good time, particularly with the Director-General’s intention to decentralize resources and administrative  authority for implementing programme activities to the field offices by the end of 1995. Services to the
11 Pacifie Member States should now improve. In particular, facilitating of the Participation Programme,  which has been a cause of much frustration, should then be quickly accommodated. Most certainly,  Mr President, the recent intervention by the Director-General and my own government to establish a quick  electronic link between the Apia Pacifie Office and Headquarters Will ensure better services and eliminate the  often irritating misunderstandings on implemented activities and funding implications.
22.7 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 shah now refer to the major programme areas and budget for 1994-1995. 1  acknowledge with appreciation the Draft Programme and Budget before us, for, not only is it based on the  overall framework of the 1990-1995 Medium-Term Plan, but it also takes account of changes in Member States  and emerging orientations in the global scene. The Director-General and his administration are to be  congratulated, because the programme concentration for 1994-1995 truly reflects the ‘forward-looking’  aspirations of this Organization. 1 note with appreciation, and rightly SO, the high priorities given to the  development of the human potential, which threads through all major programme areas. 1 note also with  satisfaction the amplified commitments to communications, peace studies and the social sciences, in addition to  the original UNESCO commitments to education, science and culture.
22.8 With regard to Major Programme Area 1, ‘Education and the future’, 1 approve with pleasure the top  priority accorded this major programme area, in particular basic education. For the Pacifïc States, current  educatiou priorities have been identified at the sixth High Level Consultation Meeting of Pacifïc Educators and  they include curriculum content, science education, teacher competency and retention, assessment issues and  resources. Pacifïc island States are currently working to provide and use the indigenous curriculum and  assessment, which we consider culturally appropriate, and relevant to our social and economic needs. The  Pacilic States regional project called ‘Basic Education for Lie Skills’ (BELS) bas been introduced. This is a  good example of a Pacifïc-focused, relevant, co-operative education activity, involving 11 Pacifie States, the  University of the South Pacifïc, UNDP, AIDAB, UNICEF, DANIDA, and the South Pacifïc Board for  Educational Assessment (SPBEA). The project focuses on the development of literacy skills, strengthening of  classroom skills and the promotion of interactive involvement with the community.
22.9 With reference to the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century, we  recognize the importance of Pacifie participation in the activities of this Commission to ensure adequate  reflection of the needs of our subregion in future UNESCO programmes. In this respect, 1 maintain that there  should be Pacifie subregional participation in the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First  Century.
22.10 On tbe education budget for the Pacifïc, the draft budget reflects a drastic tut fiom the 1992-1993  allocation. However, 1 am pleased to know that the Director-General Will review the 1994-1995 Pacifie  allocation with regard to our priority needs and reinstate, or even better, the immediate 1992-1993 allocation.
22.11 With regard to Major Programme Area II, ‘Science for progress and the environment’, science and  environmental education are among the priority areas recognized by tbe Pacifie high-level consultation as very  important. 1 accordingly wish to &aw UNESCO’s attention and assistance to developing appropriate  mechanisms for looking at the whole issue of science education from primary to tertiary levels, including  linkages at ail points and implications for teacher training and resourcing.
22.12 As concems Major Programme Area III, ‘Culture: past, present and future’, there is increasing  recognition in our subregion of tbe value and relevance of traditional knowledge and technology and the  importance of cultural factors and activities in achieving sustainable development. The single most important  Pacifie project for the World Decade for Cultural Development is ‘Vaka Moana’, or the Ocean Roads. Pacifie  States are isolated islands joined by the biggest swimming pool in the world. The Ocean has served as the  playground of migrations and a major source of sustenance for Pacifie people and has played an influential role  in the evolution of Pacifïc cultures. Vaka Moana is a golden opportunity for UNESCO to make a major  contribution to future activities in this area.
22.13 Conceming Major Programme Area IV, ‘Communication, information and informatics in the service  of humanity’, 1 acknowledge with satisfaction the high priority given to the strengthening of communication  capacities in developing countries. In this regard we appreciate the presence of the Communications Adviser in  the Apia field office.
22.14 The amalgamation of the previous Major Programme Areas V, VI and VII into one new Major  Programme Area V is welcomed. 1 applaud UNE%CO’s continuing.efforts in fosteriug the transfer and sharing  of knowledge and its reaffmed commitment to strengthening international and regional networking in the  areas of teaching, training and research. The promotion of innovative methods for the early prevention and  peaceful management of conflicts is a new and sensitive task for UNESCO, but 1 believe the unfailing  dedication of the Organization to the development of a culture for peace and human rights Will give it courage  to persevere. We in the Pacifie have our own problems and we are continuously having to redress ourselves  from the perspective of our culture and traditions. In our efforts to develop, we have sometimes tended to  relegate our culture and traditions of the last 3,000 years to the back doorstep. However, to our relief, we fïnd  that our culture and traditions are the only constants and the only sustainable factors in the whole equation of  development.
22.15 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 go away from this Conference with the greatest gift from you,  and that is you have patiently listened to a voice from a small Pacifie State. TO listen and to hear is an element  of tolerance. Tolerance is an element of understanding, the achievement of which is the road to peace.  God bless you all! Soifua!
(23) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Samoa.
13  ANNONCES DU PRESIDENT  ANNOUNCBMBNTS BY THE PRESIDENT  COMUNICACIONES DEL PRESIDENTE  COOBI.QEHIISI IIPEflCEJIATBJDI  &JJJ(&+tiW+  ÈJTwJJ19
(24.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais vous informer qu’à 13 h.30 précises, c’est-à-dire à la fin de la  présente séance plénière, une manifestation relative à cinq sculptures est prévue au jardin japonais. Cette  manifestation se tiendra en présence de M. le Directeur général et de Mme Melina Mercouri, ministre grec de la  culture. Vous y êtes tous conviés.
(24.2) A 15 heures précises, cet après-midi, le premier orateur sera M. Jacques Delors, président de la  Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle. Merci d’arriver à 15 heures précises.  DEBAT DB POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL PGLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATB DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaci6t-r)  OBCY>YqEHHE BOIIPOCOB OSII@I IIOJIHTHKkI (rtpoAonxemre)  (&3) LWI L&Jl LYIL  ,%iEp%%ipiG; ( 3 1
(25) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Nous poursuivons maintenant le débat. Je donne la parole à S. Bxc. M. Bur&e11 Whiteman, ministre de  l’éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de la Jamaïque.
26.1 Mr WHITEMAN (Jamaica):  Mr President, Mr Diiector-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 fully endorse and whole-heartedly support all that was excellently said at the  opening session of our Conference by outgoing President Ogot, by President Sayyad, by the Chairperson of tbe  Executive Board and the Diiector-General, and 1 welcome the propos& of earlier speakers in this debate, a  debate which 1 believe has been more focused on UNESCO - the Organization - and UNFSCO’s mandate than  in previous years.
26.2 At this stage, Mr President, it is pointless memly to repeat the points which have already been  eloquently made. As we approach the ftitieth anniversary of UNESCO, we have been enjoined to look critically  at our programmes and activities to ensure that UNESCO concentrates on doing well the tasks which lie within  its competence in a world which is very diiferent from that which existed in 1946. Jamaica supports the view  that first and foremost we must always be of practical assistance to Member States in developing policies and  programmes in education and training at all stages from basic literacy to university, to meet their needs and the  international challenges of the twenty-first century. This assistance should include the development of libraries,  audio-visual techniques, educational broadcasting and distance education, not as ends in themselves, but as  means to the effective provision of relevant quality education. Secondly, UNBSCO must foster culture not only  by support of archaeological sites, the development of museums, and the encouragement of arts and crafts, but
481    also by fostering the broader concept of culture in the developing patterns of daily life for men, women and  youth. Thirdly, UNESCO must continue to support the development of democratic systems and international  understanding by the development of a hee flow of information through radio, press and television. Fourthly,  UNESCO must promote scient& research and education directed to human welfare, health and the  preservation of the terrestrial, marine and space environment and the investigation of sustainable nergy. Under  this broad umbrella, Mr President, we believe that special attention should be paid to solar energy, the  importance of the oceans - which caver two thirds of the surface of our planet - and the potential of small island  States. As the conscience of the international community, UNESCO should continue to urge that programmes  such as these benefit from the redirection of resources which were previously expended on the weapons of war.
26.3 In addition, Mr President, UNESCO would do well to accelerate the decentralization process to ensure  that, firstly, funding for programmes and projects is disbursed directly to the subregions and local offices as the  preferred method of operation; and, secondly, that funds are strategically and creatively used for maximum  impact on the receiving population. In sum, Mr President, UNESCO must remain a force for enlightened  direction of the world’s human and material resources towards the fullest and most rapid development of the  human potential.
26.4 A number of speakers have expressed themselves on tbe implications of the changes to the  Constitution which have shifted representation from individual to State membership. For the record, 1 should  like to state the position of Jamaica, which is also my personal position. The fact is that, even before 1991, the  election of members to the Executive Board had a very significant element of national and political  considerations. Those who have been occupying seats on the Board held these seats by vit-tue of their own  intellectual competence but also, and very importantly, because of the support and interventions of their  national govermnents. The situation which now exists, while it throws up some problems of procedure witbin  the Board, also provides us with a very important opportunity and an exciting challenge: it is simply this, to  ensure that, when a country chooses its candidate for the Executive Board, it selects a person who combines a  deep understanding of his or her nation’s concerns, its human development strategies and its aspirations, with a  broad vision and an intellectual grasp of the historical international role and future possibilities of UNESCO, so  that the member cari do justice bath to the Organization and the State which he or she represents. After ah, we  who lay claim to being proponents of education and the culture of peace as guarantors of international  understanding buttressed by democratic practice must also pay due regard to the democratic expression of our  people, recognizing that power and authority derive from them. In large or small States, therefore, in old or  new democracies, we must seek to give the fullest and best expression to the wishes of the people by fulfilling  our mandate in the most responsible way.
26.5 Having said ail of that, Mr President, may 1 also, for tbe record, strongly express tbe view that  arrangements be made to guarantee that the less developed countries who are elected to the Executive Board are  not in any way prevented from making their full contribution because of inability to meet the cost of attendance.  Once they are members in good standing, we must ensure that their presence and full participation are  guaranteed.
26.6 There are four other issues 1 should like to address, the first three very briefly. Fiist, as the  Organization established to give enlightened support to education, culture, the dissemination of information  and the broadening of the frontiers of science and technology in the pursuit of human development, UNESCO,  as 1 sec it, has a role to play as honest broker in mediating between the international funding agencies and the  receiving community. It is not enough to ensure that more money is available by way of loans; it should help  create a better basis for those transactions, more solid grounds of agreement, more acceptable conditions for  effective and sustainable application.
26.7 Second, we applaud UNESCO’s efforts to improve the status of women. We in the Caribbean bave a  proud recent history in this area of endeavour. Most recently, in Jamaica, for example, we have passed  legislation which gives automatic nationality to the children of Jamaican women, ii-respective of the nationality  of the father, a right previously reserved for children whose fathers were Jamaican. It is furthermore an  undisputed fact that, throughout the education system, girls and women statistically are out-performing the  male population. At the University of the West Indies, for instance, 65 per cent of the graduates in the past two  years were women and the trend shows no signs of change.
26.8 This brings me, Mr President, to the third point: that UNESCO needs to be sure that, while we focus  on women in development, the marginalization of men in particular societies, a matter of growing concem,
13  does not escape us. Relevant education and the extrapolation and application of cultural values which address  that issue also need to be kept in view. Let us avoid the error of a general and instinctive tendency to women’s  issues as distinct from gender issues. Where men, especially Young men, are at risk, bath men and women  remain in a state of underdevelopment.
26.9 Finally, 1 wish to bring into focus the importance of culture in the educational process. Perhaps we in  Jamaica, as well as in other societies, have in the relatively recent past tended to neglect this vital aspect of  human development in our determination to ensure that the products of the education process participate in  income-generating productive endeavour. Clearly this must continue to be a corner-stone of the process, but 1  believe that the lag in cultural development has tended to create a vacuum, increasingly being ftlled by a  narrow materialism and blatant ostentation. The Govemment and people of Jamaica therefore commend the  action programme of UNESCO in the field of culture, directed to the nurturing of individual and national  integrity and self-confidence leading to international understanding and universal respect for human existence.
26.10 SO while we welcome the wide range of activities covered by projects to preserve and enhance the  world’s cultural property - sites and monuments, works of art or the ‘intangible’ treasures of intellect and  imagination - we also welcome the fresh and clear commitment to the que& for culture and for the mental  attributes needed to tope with what is still, for far too many of us, the dilemma of difference, to the quest for  that elusive capacity to achieve unity in diversity and for the attainment of a pluralism that Will have people  living not just side by side but together. Only then Will that Splendid initiative by the Director-General fmally  make sense. 1 refer to the culture of peace project, which we are led to believe will receive ail the administrative  support and nurturing that such a project Will need at the outset, for it has to do with human understanding, the  honing of which is as central to the business of culture as it is to peace.
26.11 We who live in human scale aggregations - island States or ‘small States’ in tbe language of  UNESCO - know this only too well. No education policy, no human resources development programme, no  economic apparatus in our small island States bas a chance of succeeding without due reference to the creative  potential of the mass of our populations. What cornes out of the people’s creative imagination, individually and  collectively, should be made to flourish and should be facilitated in its development SO that these cari in tum  inform public policy and give to the people a sense of ownership of, and control over, their own destiny.
26.12 The interfacing of the culture sector with all others - with education, communication and information,  science and technology, and the now fashionable - even if genuinely urgent - area of concem, the enviromnent,  must be written into ail of the initiatives from the culture sector, serving perhaps as the interconnecting  principle of all that goes to make up civil society. This constitutes a major challenge for UNESCO over the next  biennium on the road to the twenty-fust Century.
26.13 The Government and people of Jamaica, Mr President, are happy that this world body is  demonstrating, in its stated intentions and the nature of the discourse that it is facilitating, a greater awareness  of the complexity of the phenomena with which a rapidly changing world must now grapple to make the  foreseeable future far more secure than it seems now to be, even as we speak; and how lucky UNESCO is,  Mr President, to have within its mandate three of the most vital modalities towards human growth and  development, education, communication and, perhaps at this stage pre-eminently, culture. Mr President,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 thank you.  (M. Salem Humaid Al-Ghamai, Emirats arabes unis, prend la présidence)
(27) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Jamaïque et je donne la parole à S. Eixc. M. Amanya-  Mushega, ministre de l’éducation et des sports et chef de la délégation de l’Ouganda.
28.1 Mr AMANYA-MUSHEGA (Uganda):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me fust to congratulate Mr Sayyad on his  deserved election to the pmsidency of tbe General Conference. In the same breath, permit me to pay tribute to
483    his immediate predecessor for the able mariner in which he conducted the affairs of the twenty-sixth session. 1  wish to express my delegation’s appreciation to the Chairperson of the Executive Board and the Director-  General who have provided dynamic leadership to our Organization. Mr President, distinguished delegates, on  behalf of my delegation and my country, 1 welcome the new members who have just joined the Organization.
28.2 Mr President, distinguished delegates, we are once again gathered here to re-examine the goals and  mission of our Organization and how they intimately relate to our ever-changing world. As the Director-  General rightly points out in his Introduction to document 27 C/5, the apparent end of the Cold War poses new  global challenges. When UNESCO was founded, the threat to international peace was mainly across national  fiontiers. Recently, we have witnessed with concem and dismay ethnie conflicts within national borders. The  most recent developments in the Republic of Burundi are a clear reflection of this. My govemment strongly  condemned the failed coup in Burundi as bestial, cowardly and sectarian, which is not in the interests of  democracy, national harmony and international peace.
28.3 The mission of UNESCO in contributing to international peace and understanding in its fields of  competence becomes even more relevant in the face of the new situation. Through its organs, the major  programme areas and the different forums of UNESCO, we must generate new ideas and methods to accelerate  the universalization of education and wider diffusion of culture and information and also to foster the avenues  of mutual respect, tolerance, respect for human rights and grass-mots democratic participation.
28.4 Mr President, the above noble ideas are cherished greatly by my delegation. However, it seems to US  that these aspirations may not be realized unless the world community finds the political Will to address the  issues of poverty, illiteracy, economic marginahzation of some regions of the world and underdevelopment. The  problem of poor nations is further compounded by the unbearable debt burden.
28.5 The current Medium-Term Plan cornes to an end in 1995. Allow me to reflect on the concept of  medium-term planning. The view of my delegation is that medium-term planning should continue to guide the  future thinking of UNESCO. The plan should anticipate programming our activities in terms of broad policy  issues. Flexibility is essential and to this end the plan should be reviewed at every General Conference SO as to  take into account changed circumstances and situations.
28.6 Mr President, distinguished delegates, in the various programme commissions my delegation Will  make detailed comments on document 27 C/5. However, permit me to make brief comments on the Draft  Programme and Budget. As regards the proposals on education, in Uganda the main issues in education have  been identified as focusing on: access and equity; quality; and relevance and management. We have recently  had an opportunity to reflect and exchange xperiences on the above issues when we hosted, in September 1993,  a subregional Conference of Ministers of Education on ‘Education for Ah three years after Jomtien. Our  education policy is being reviewed to focus attention on the vocationahzation of the curricula, science and  environment and skills training, thus creating linkages between education and the world of work. These  initiatives also extend to the non-formal education sector up to the community level. Consequently, the Uganda  Govemment supports the aims and objectives of UNESCO’s international project on vocational and technical  education and the project 2000+, especially in the areas of information exchange, networking and promotion of  international co-operation. The Uganda Govemment has launched a programme on ‘Teacher Development and  Management System’ whose objective, amongst others, is to co-ordinate and improve the planning and  management of the school delivery system.
28.7 In a nutshell, Mr President, Uganda supports the Director-General’s priority emphasis on the  eradication of illiteracy, the provision of basic education and the improvement of management and research at  post-secondary institutions. The achievement of these goals is of paramount importance to Africa.
28.8 In the reahn of science and technology, UNESCO’s role in initiating and sustaining dialogue and  co-operation in the sciences through its various intergovermnental scient& programmes is highly commended.  It is, however, important to recognize the fact that those who lag behind in the management of science and  technology are doomed to permanent domination, poor and primitive living conditions and unequal  participation in world trade.
28.9 The strategies of UNESCO chairs, twinning programmes and universitylindushylscience partnership  (UNISPAR) are commendable innovations. We are already benefiting from the UNESCO chair in  biotechnology and we look forward to participating in others.
28.10 Within the framework of the World Decade for Cultural Development which calls for the  strengthening of cultural identities, the Uganda Government is taking steps to revive, revitalize and record the  relevant and fruitful cultural heritage of our country. There has been a reawakening and a realization that peace  and unity cari be achieved through recognition and harmonization of our positive diverse cultures.
28.11 Since the twentietb session of the General Conference there have been persistent cahs for programme  concentration and an interdisciplinary approach in programme activities. My delegation is gratified to note that  the above calls have been largely met in document 27 C/5. The Director-General and the Executive Board  deserve our thanks for this achievement.
28.12 Mr President, the bringing together of communication, information and informatics activities under  one umbrella is not only logical but Will strengthen their complementary and supplementary roles. The  emphasis given to training and strengthening communication capacities in developing countries is well placed.  In Uganda, we need the capacity to serve the rural amas. As the inhabitants of a developing country, most of  our people live and work in rural areas and that is why we are interested in the project of spreading library and  information services to these areas. Allow me to thank UNESCO for recently sponsoring in Uganda a national,  intergovemmental, informatics programme on ‘Sensitization of decision-makers and the top civil servants in  informatics’.
28.13 UNESCO’s support Will also be needed to establish computer networking and data base bank centres  in the Africa region. Mr President, the social and human sciences play a vital role in the promotion of peace,  world understanding, socio-economic development and enhancement of the role of women in society. The  envisaged UNESCO programme on the Management of Social Transformations is of particular interest to us  and we shah actively participate in it.
28.14 My country has been at the forefront in recognizing and enhancing the role of women in development.  In Uganda a separate ministry has been established to promote women’s participation in development. Forty  seats are reserved for women representation in our National Parliament, one for each district, and women are  free to compete for the rest of the seats. We therefore applaud the recommendation made by the Executive  Board at its 141st session that Member States should ensure that 25 per cent of their Participation Programme  requests hould address activities aimed at the promotion of women.
28.15 The Director-General should therefore be commended for his proposals conceming the redeployment  of budget savings to the priority areas of women, Africa, the leastdeveloped countries and rural areas. We  commend tbe Director-General for including ‘Priority: Africa’ programme in the regular UNESCO budget. We  also welcome the decision of the Executive Board to have the programme evaluated in 1994. We propose that  projects under the ‘Priority: Africa’ programme be of a regional nature aimed at concentrating the liiited  resources SO as to make an impact, create capacity and minimiie dependence.
28.16 My delegation welcomes changes in the structure and working methods of the Organization aimed at  making it more efficient. While making these changes, let us examine all possibiiities SO that we reach a  solution which takes into account the interests of all Member States, rich and poor, large and small. We are  apprehensive of some of the proposals SO far tabled, especiaIly on the intersessional mechanism. If implemented  as proposed, poor countries which cannot afford to fly in experts lïequently and which have small and spread-  out delegations at UNESCO will not be able to participate effectively in the work of the Executive Board. We  should not lose sight of the fact that UNESCO is an international, intellectual co-operation organization which  stands to gain from the intellectual contributions from bath the rich and the poor, taking into account the fact  that producing intellectuals is not a monopoly of the rich. We therefore appeal to the Executive Board in its  new form to examine all possible ways and means of making its work more efficient without marginalizing  contributions of ideas from small and poor countries. 1 am sure, Mr President and distinguished delegates, that  like me you Will have appreciated the contribution on this point by the Minister of Education of Western  Samoa.
28.17 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, before 1 resume my Seat, 1 wish to  reaffm our resolute hope and faith in the vital mission of UNESCO to promote programmes for international  understanding, co-operation, peace and development. Thank you for your attention.
(29) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l’Ouganda, je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Augustus  Ramrekersingh, ministre de l’éducation et chef de la délégation de la Trinité et Tobago.
30.1 Mr RAMREKERSINGH (Trinidad and Tobago):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished ladies and gentlemen, may 1 join those who have spoken befom me in congratulating Mr Sayyad  on his election to the presidency. 1 also wish to add my welcome to the new members of UNESCO. 1 welcome  them to this Organization with a mandate to build the defences of peace in the minds of men - a goal that  remains constant even as modem civilization achieves great strides in diverse areas.
30.2 Trinidad and Tobago wishes to recognize the good work that has been done by the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, and in particular his efforts in the direction of effective and meaningful decentralization  and for the creation of a culture of peace.
30.3 The programmes of UNESCO reflect the complexity and divers@ of the Member States which  comprise the Organization. We in the Caribbean and Latin America support all efforts to recognize, respect and  preserve this diversity within UNESCO which is manifested in our geography, etlmicity and culture in its  broadest sense.
30.4 In the Catibbean subregion the preservation of our particular cultural expressions continues to assume  great importance in a context of cultural penetration, facilitated by advanced scientific and technological  development in the developed world. The General History of the Caribbean, which is in the process of being  written by eminent Caribbean and international historians, is consequently of paramount importance to the  Caribbean at this time. It provides a Caribbean perspective on the history of the region and opens discussion on  several new areas of our past. The work is certain to have an impact on the teaching of history at all levels of  the education system and, it is to be hoped, through more popular forms of dissemination, on the general  population. It Will provide for the population a new understanding of themselves and their region, thereby  reaffnming and defining Caribbean identity at a time when it Will be most needed, at the threshold of the next  millennium. Mr President, 1992 was the quincentennial meeting of two worlds. Caribbean civilization  represents the meeting of more than two worlds: it represents a confluence of many worlds - tbe world of  Europe, the world of Asia, the world of Africa. In religious terms, it represents the confluence of Christianity,  Hinduism and Islam. Our history must reflect not only our diverse origins but must also seek to establish ow  kinship with our neighbours, with Latin America and North America. We therefore recommend, Mr President,  that the material be published as soon as it becomes available; that the financial allocation for the project be  increased and that the project be continued into the 1996-1997 biennium, if necessary, to ensure its completion  and publication.
30.5 The goals of the Caribbean Festival of Arts (CARIFESTA) are consistent with those of the World  Decade for Cultural Development. CARIFESTA V was held in Trinidad and Tobago in 1992. CARIFESTA VI  Will be held in Trinidad and Tobago in 1995 and we look forward to UNESCO’s continuing support for this  important developmental activity which, among other things, helps to strengthen functional linkages among  Caribbean peoples and beyond. Indeed, Mr President, 1 wish to thank our Latin American neighbours whose  participation in CARIFESTA 1992 undoubtedly served to enhance the quality of tbat event. We look forward to  their participation in 1995.
30.6 In the area of education, we in Trinidad and Tobago are seeking to preserve our gains in basic  education for ah, while addressing our post-expansionist problems, largely related to the quality of education.  In addition to our concem with the retention of quality, early childhood tare and education is an area of  overriding priority and we Will be addressing the issue of greater provision and efficiency of this service. Early  childhood tare and education has become essential, given the fact of working mothers, f%utnciaI and economic  difficulties which impact upon families, and therefore children, and in recognition that the early childhood  years are critical in the overall development of a Young person. We also view proper nutrition programmes and  parenting programmes as necessary supports for early childhood tare and education. It is to be noted that there  is in the budget of Major Programme Area 1 no allocation for the Young Child and the family enviromnent for
13  the subregional office in Kingston. An adequate allocation for this office is necessary to support this priority  area in the Caribbean.
30.7 In respect of education for the twenty-first Century, Trinidad and Tobago needs the assistance of the  International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) in our efforts at educational reform. One area of reform  is that of technical vocational comprehensive ducation, which, with its thrust towards early specialization, has  not brought the desired results. We are, therefore, considering the introduction of technology studies, which is  seen to be more effective in facilitating an understanding of the human purposes that are being addressed.  Technology studies is also considered to be more in keeping with information and knowledge industries which  are critical for Caribbean countries in the future.
30.8 The training of adult educators and the training of trainers; the design and implementation of  programmes for educationaI innovation and research; the evaluation of their cost-effectiveness and the use of  information and communication technologies in education are all areas of need in the Caribbean for improving  the quality of education and preparing our society for the twenty-first century.
30.9 In the area of science and technology, we need access to information and resources for capacity  building. Emphasis needs to be placed on the development of national capabilities to identify science and  technology issues within economic sectors, to analyse these issues, inform policy decisions and influence  implementation in the context of resource allocation. Attention should be focused on science and technology in  such a way as to address the special problems inherent in the economic development of the exclusive economic  zone (EEZ) of small island States (SIS).
30.10 Under the Law of the Sea Convention, the ratio of land to sea surface for which small island States are  responsible is a feature unique to these Su&s (Trinidad and Tobago 1:16; Barbados 1:400; Kiribati in the  South Pacifïc 1:4,000!). The management and development of the exclusive economic zone encompasses this  dimension which is peculiar to small island States.
30.11 Small island developing States like Trinidad and Tobago need access to technologies which Will  expand the range and scope of our limited pool of trained human resources. Technologies which Will create  ‘virtual’ critical mass in our thinly spread and widely separated intellectual communities. Amas of emphasis for  us must be telecommunications; information technology - including computer-aided technology such as flexible  manufacturing, computer-aided engineering, expert systems; and mathematical modelling (especially for  natural resource management including the management of hydrocarbon reservoirs and the economic  development of our largest natural resource pool - the exclusive economic zone). Trinidad and Tobago’s  support for the draft resolution on small island developing States submitted by the Philippines is further  evidence of the importance we place on this issue.
30.12 Our country is currently finahzing legislation with a view to establishing a national enviromnental  management agency by the end of 1993, which Will have an overview function with respect to enviromnental  matters and which Will establish that balance between industrial development and the preservation of the  environment.
30.13 Finally, in the area of social sciences in the Caribbean, in addition to the need to increase the equality  of women, there is a need to study rhe question - as Jamaica said - of male marginality and unemployment. This  makes the situation more fragile for women with resuhant economic diiffculties and domestic violence.
30.14 A strong focus on the difficulties facing Young people in Latin America and the Caribbean is essential  to the future well-being of our societies. We note that 1995 Will be declared by the United Nations as the  observance of the tentb anniversary of International Youth Year to chart the course for Young people up to the  year 2000. Caribbean govermnents plan to commemorate this anniversary and we look forward to UNESCO’s  involvement. In Trinidad and Tobago we shah be seeking to undertake research relating to youth; to develop a  national youth policy; to involve Young people in the planning and implementation of national development  objectives; and to establish a management information system for youth, among other measures.
30.15 Mr President, we in the Caribbean and Latin America continue to be very concerned about the  obstacles in the way of the restoration of democracy in Haiti. We support the United Nations resolution, we  support a UNESCO contribution to this end and recommend that measures of aid for Haiti include a social  sciences component.
30.16 Mr President, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago is sensitive to the importance of maintaining  active involvement in UNESCO affairs and those of the United Nations system generahy if we are to contribute  to the efforts of the international community to address current world problems. Trinidad and Tobago wishes to  reaffirm commitment to supporting these efforts and stands ready to continue to make manifest among our  people the most worthy ideals of UNESCO in its areas of competence. Mr President, 1 thank you.
(31) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Trinité et Tobago et je donne la parole à S. tic. Mme Kate  Kainja, ministre de l’education et de la culture et chef de la délégation du Malawi, qui sera notre dernière  oratrice de cette séance.
32.1 MS KAINJA (Malawi):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable leaders of delegations, Permanent Delegates to  UNESCO, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me, Mr President, through you to  congratulate Mr Sayyad on his election to the presidency of our twenty-seventh session of the UNESCO  General Conference. TO be accorded such a responsibility manifests the trust all the delegations gathered here  have placed in you to conduct the deliberations of our Conference. 1 and the entire Malawi delegation share that  trust. In the same vein, you Will allow me, Mr President, to place on record my delegation’s expression of  thanks to the outgoing President, Professor Ogot, for the very able manner in which he presided over the  deliberations of the twenty-sixth session of our General Conference. 1 also congratulate ail members of your  Bureau and hope that, with their untiring support, your task Will be made lighter and enjoyable. TO the other  delegations gathered here 1 extend the good wishes of the Malawi people for a successful General Conference.
32.2 Mr President, UNESCO is a very mature person. If we take 1946 as the year in which she was born,  the age of 47 is an age at which she bas gone through ail the emotions of youth, is sober enough to reflect on  the errors of her past, still strong enough to cultivate meaningful investment out of her present and wise enough  to chart a respectable future. That is our UNESCO today. And we who are here today are possibly lucky in the  sense that we have an entity which, coming back to the analogy of a human being, cari understand us as much  as we understand it in ternis of our interaction.
32.3 Malawi has had to undergo changes. But, in keeping with the spirit of ‘contact and dialogue’ long  expounded by the Founder of the Malawi Nation - our President Ngwazi Dr H. Kamuzu Banda - 1 am happy to  say here that the changes experienced in Malawi have maintained an orderly atmosphere - and it is, of course,  the aim of the entire nation to ensure that Malawi’s move to political pluralism does not negatively affect the  country’s social and economic structures. This is the message, as a nation, that we have signalled to the whole  world community, including of course, UNESCO. It is a message which, we hope, Will give confidence to our  partners in the international community with whom we have worked all these years to mise the standard of the  ordinary Malawian, SO that in us they cari sec a people to whom they cari trust their resources and goodwill,  both bilaterally and multilaterally.
32.4 Mr President, the fie& of education, science, culture, communication and information and the  transverse themes of women and youth are indeed areas no country cari ignore without running the risk of  degeneration into an archaic society. As a nation, Malawi also recognizes the importance of allocating a larger  percentage of her resources to the above sectors or to sectors connected with them, for these are the areas that  contribute to govemment’s strategies in its efforts to alleviate poverty among its citizens. Such strategies,  among others, include ‘broadening literacy and basic education; increasing the productivity of small-scale  entrepreneurs and farmers; increasing the share of public expenditure to social services in primary health tare,  water supply and sanitation and low cost housing’; while in health ‘the strategy is to reduce further deaths  caused by malaria, acute respiratory infections, AIDS and diarrhoea, in addition to maintaining high levels of  immumzation coverage’.
32.5 Mr President, my clelegation feels gratified that the Executive Board itself in its recommendations on  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995, document 27 C/5, has underlined the high priority to be given  to the activities contributing to the promotion of human development in all the major programme areas. For it  is the belief of my delegation that, whatever our Organization endeavours to do, it must do SO witb the aim of
13  contributing to the efforts of the international community in beuering the conditions of human society. Because  of this view, Malawi has followed and always Will follow with keen interest the efforts that UNESCO is  undertaking towards &centraIization of its activities. We even note with further interest that the Director-  General has emphasized this point when he says that he has ‘decided that ail activities aimed at assisting  development efforts in Member States at national level, together with the execution of projects funded by extra-  budgetary resources, should be decentrahzed to Beld offices, as a matter of principle, by the end of 1995, along  with appropriate transfers of responsibility and resources’.
32.6 We, of course, support the fact that UNESCO must maintain its universality, but we believe at the  same time that this should not be done at the expense of its constituencies, who are tbe Member States. While  some of these constituencies Will appreciate, say, a meeting of professors of philosophy, others Will crave for a  primary school pupil to have at least one exercise book. While some will be busy fitting new computers and  television sets into their schools, others Will anxiously be hoping to have that damaged primary school block or  literacy centre fixed before a rainy season sets in.
32.7 Mr President, let me now tum to some programmes in document 27 C/5 which my delegation feels do  need to mceive the support of all of us here. Mr President, my delegation agrees that the main goal in Major  Programme Area 1, ‘Education and the future’ should be ‘education for ah and that priority should be given to  basic education. However, and this is a point of concem to my delegation, apart from meetings, seminars and  conferences, it is now time that concrete projects, even from the regular budget, were put in place. For Malawi,  co-operation with UNESCO is greatly sought in the following areas. Firstly, expansion of community-based  Child tare and education. In this case, Malawi supports and hopes to participate actively and concretely in the  Young Child and the Family Project. Secondly, my Govemment attaches priority to basic education. In this  sector, we aim to increase access to primary education for a large number of children of school-going age,  particularly girls. Since 1990, school fees are being abolished in phases. We are already witnessing increased  participation in our primary schools. Mr President, this has resulted in the need for special programmes to train  the extra teachers needed to tope with this expanded intake, more innovative ways of bringing education nearer  to the Child, for example, provision of community schools and use of the media, and additionaI and relevant  teaching/leaming facilities and materiaIs. My delegation here hopes that UNESCO Will corne to our aid by  identifying extra-budgetary resources to complement our efforts. At this point, let me say that Malawi is  grateful to UNESCO and UNDP for their continued support for her Primary School Curriculum Review Project.  There still remains need for more support in this area because of our intention to incorporate crucial concepts  into tbe revised curriculum, such as population education, AIDS and civic education.
32.8 Considering the importance of the need to eradicate illiteracy, my delegation is very supportive of the  efforts to revive the Network for Education and Innovation for Development in Africa (NEIDA) programme.  We are of the view that NEIDA should concentrate more on the production of materiaIs for basic literacy. In  this programme, it is the view of my delegation that emphasis hould be placed on training literacy personnel in  Member States in the techniques of producing literacy materiaIs, particularly in vemacular and local languages.  The importance of higher education cannot be denied. That is why, Mr President, my delegation supports  UNESCO’s efforts that aim to ‘enhance the efficiency of institutions of higher education’. Malawi particularly  supports the promotion of the university twinning programme (UNITWIN) and the establishment of UNESCO  chairs in Member States as provided for in document 27 C/5.
32.9 Mr President, 1 also wish to place on record my country’s support for the international project on  technical and vocational education, especially as it emphasizes the involvement of women and girls. In fact,  noting with much concem that in some of our nations basic education or primary education is the only type of  education some people receive, we sec a need to strengthen the link between education and the world of work  right from an early age.
32.10 Mr President, Major Programme Area II is probably one area that has been aptly named ‘Science for  progress and the environment’. For it is true that a country’s progress Will always depend on its scientific and  technological capabilities. Whether one thinks of industry or agriculture, scientific research Will always play a  critical role in the advancement of such sectors. The same is also true where our concem is to balance a  country’s efforts towards development and the ah-important requirement of conserving the environment. The  quest for economic stability and growth, food self-sufficiency, improved living conditions and environmental  protection are recognized as major challenges that science and technology should take up.
32.11 We see great potential for co-operation between my country and UNESCO in such activities as  environmental education for local populations, surveys to inventory certain species of fauna and flora to be  found in Malawi with the aim of conserving them, as well as initiating activities whose main objective would be  to carry out reafforestation activities suitable for Malawi. We therefore support the MAB programme.
32.12 Recognizing the importance of the environment, Malawi, within the framework of the UNCED  Agenda 21, and with initial assistance from the World Bank, is in the process of fïnalizing her National  Enviromnent Action Plan, which includes pollution control, research, biological conservation, water resources  and natural disasters. We hope, therefore, that UNESCO Will co-operate closely with my country towards the  achievement of the plan’s objectives.
32.13 WhiIe we welcome mechanisms uch as the World Commission on Culture and Development, we feel  that its plan of action remains nebulous. While we do not condemn the planned meetings and consultations, it  is the view of my delegation that the concentration of the extra-budgetary resources provided to this  Commission rob UNESCO of the meaningful co-operation UNESCO could undertake witb its individual  Member States or subregions in activities within the Decade, such as collaborating in the formulation of  cultural policy documents, promoting physical cultural exchanges between Member States or even enhancing  tbe development of cultural industries in Member States, as has been provided for elsewhere in the work plan of  the Decade.
32.14 Mr President, in the field of communication, my delegation has noted with great interest the Board’s  approval of ‘the high priority given to the strengthening of communication capacities in developing  countries . ..‘. Mr President, members of my delegation Will recall my earlier remarks when 1 informed them of  Malawi’s current process to embrace political pluralism. In such an atmosphere, the role of communication and  information becomes paramount. Communication and information must bring tolerance. They must bring  understanding as well as productive commitment o new ideas and values. Further, it is a well-known fact that  the media have an important role to play in the promotion of human rights in our Member States. My  delegation wishes to support the activities of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC). My appeal to donor countries is therefore to request hem to be considerate whenever  requests are submitted to the Council of IPDC.
32.15 Mr President, my final comments on the Draft Programme and Budget are on the social and human  sciences programme, particularly the proposed research activities on policy-orientcd issues. Within this  framework, my delegation wishes to support the setting up of the International Social Science Research  Programme commonly known as MOST (Management of Social Transformations). While my delegation knows  that it is practically impossible for our Organization to involve each and every Member State in each and every  programme, MOST is certainly one programme which could assist countries like Malawi which are facing  fundamental changes, demographicahy, politically and economically. T~US, while UNESCO Will devote most  of the resources under this programme to the preparation of the World Summit for Social Development in
1995, we wish also to request UNESCO to expand the programmes under MOST to concrete activities within  Member States.
32.16 Lastly, my delegation would like to pay a special tribute to the Director-General for enhancing  functional and operational changes aimed at improving the general modus operundi of the Organization. For  this reason, my delegation would like to express the hope that the General Conference Will entrust him with  another mandate as Director-General of UNESCO.
32.17 Allow me to say in conclusion that Malawi supports, and Will certainly always support, the ideals that  our Organization, UNESCO, stands for. UNESCO is indeed a powerhouse of ideas and, sometimes, of action as  well. It is therefore the hope of my delegation that, as we debate in plenary, as well as in the programme  commissions, our aim must always be to ensure that UNESCO always remains strong. This we cari do through  frank and constructive dialogue, a dialogue that should recognize the strengths of our Organization and, where  necessary, a dialogue that must be able to mention those areas that may need our further critical attention.  Thank you, Sir,
(33) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Malawi, et je lève la séance en vous rappelant que nous nous  retrouvons à 15 heures cet après-midi.  La séance est levée à 13 h.50  The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.50
3acename 3aKpbmae-rcx B 13.50  ~I~\,~.LWI~LgIad~  &$!~13Bf50$M~