Sixième séance plénière
27 octobre 1993, à 15 h.10  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  Sixth plenary meeting
27 October 1993 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr SAYYAD (Yemen)  Sexta sesion plenaria
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  With your permission, 1 now declare open the sixth plenary meeting. However, before 1 give the floor to  the first speaker, 1 should like to ask you once again to pay attention to the yellow light and the red light. When  the yellow light cornes on, this means mat your allocated period is about to end. When the red light cornes on, this  means that you have exceeded the allocated period. Bxceeding the time-limit results in the plenary meeting  having to sit for longer, at enormous administrative and lïnancial cost. 1 would ask, therefore, that contributions  be kept to the 12minute period which you yourselves have laid down. Thank you very much.
(1.2) NOW, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to cal1 on the first speaker, His Bxcellency Dr Antonio Mercader,  Minister for Education and Culture and head of the delegation of Uruguay.
(2.1) Mr MERCADER (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the Conference, Mr President of the Board, Mr Director-General, ministers, delegates,  ladies and gentlemen: First of all 1 wish to welcome the countries which have just joined UNESCO and also to  congratulate the President of the Conference. Our congratulations also go to the Director-General on account of  the certain prospect of a second term of office which will allow him to continue and expand the renewal of the  aims of mis body.
(2.2) The Eastern Republic of Uruguay cornes to this Conference with the same faith and entbusiasm it had  when it first embraced the ideals of peace, democracy, education and defence of human rights which inspired the  foundation of UNESCO. As you know, our country is fully democratic. Within Latin America it is a wuntry  characterized by the civic culture of its population, which has been a constant feature of its history and is assured  in its future. This democratic pmcess, which is a natural sentiment among Uruguayans, is nourished by an  education system which is successful in the coverage it offers. Universal primary and secondary education, the  expansion of technical education and the presence of 60,000 univers@ students in a country with a population of  three million and an illiteracy rate of only 4 per cent form the basis of that vocation for peace, dialogue and  compromise which are SO natural to us.
(2.3) Our educational statistics are good, but we do not rest on our laurels because, as in other countries in  the region, the increase in the number of students has not been accompanied by a parallel improvement in the  quality of the education on offer. We are making every effort to solve this problem, and we are trying to do SO by  stimulating dialogue at national level. We have summoned a11 sectors of society, but particularly teachers, to  discuss and prepare a reform which Will bring about improvements in the course contents of onr education  system. This is the major project within the countty.
(2.4) Looking outwards, our major project is called the Common Market of Knowledge, which the Director-  General was generous enough to mention in his introductoty speech. This project, which was launched by our  President, Dr Luis Alberto Lacalle, has the rare virtue of attracting adherents at every level. The idea is to  combine efforts being made in the areas of science and technology in less developed countries with a search for  support and complementary assistance in the highly industrialized countries. This type of integration rewards not  economic or commercial factors but knowledge, and Will allow us to w-ordinate basic research projects, as well  as set up funds for grants and postgraduate courses, to help reduce the brain drain affecting our countries.
(2.5) In a continent where certain heart-rending extremes of critical poverty are apparent, a new generation of  political leaders has arisen. They have learned the hard lesson which the 1980s taught Latin America. In our  region, these leaders have formed, with overwhelming popular support, the so-called Common Market of the  South (MERCOSUR), within which Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay propose to integrate. The first  stages of this integration - including educational and cultural aspects - have taken place speedily. The formation  of a megablock witb 200 million inhabitants shows greater realism and a search for pragmatism and efficiency  which may be seen in the results apparent in many of our countrics at the present time. The main problem trxlay  lies in how to rapidly convert the results which have aheady been achieved into other expressions of  indispensable social solidarity.
(2.6) Of these social expressions, education continues to be the most powerful instrument for raising living  standards, providing truc equality of opportunity and ensuring govemability in democracy. This acquires even  greater importance when we see how vast regions, suddenly and madily, undergo enormous political changes. But  we are aware that it is not enough to change the forma1 aspects of the system, if this is not accompanied by far-  reaching cultural changes, which are not SO easy to achieve, cannot be implemented in a short time and require  sustained effort.
(2.7) We agree, therefore, with the Director-General and with a number of delegates from other countries  who have spoken before us on the need to increase cultural exchanges, to relaunch intellectual co-opemtion (as  has been done, for instance, with the Forum of Reflection), to link culture with development and, in essence, to  rethink the role of UNESCO, a role imbued with a sense of ethics and forcsight, which must mark out a course for  education in the next millennium on a world stage which it is as yet difficult to envisage.
(2.8) Whatever that scenario may be, we must work for a ‘culture of peace’, on the rules of democracy and  using, tülly and to best advantage, new communication technologies. On this point in particular, we were pleased  to hear express mention made in this room of the fact that communication is one of the fnnctions which UNESCO  must pmmote, alongside education and cultural dissemination. We are in full agreement with this. The media,  and 1 am speaking here of my country in particular and of Latin America in general, are a ‘pamllel school’, the  most important channel of non-forma1 education.
(2.9) It is clear that growing homogenization puts national identity at risk. The growtb of this trend concems  us, and to counteract it we must strengthen the measures aimed at valuing the cultural differences which  constitute the histoty and traditions of each country. In this regard, we wish to stress the UNESCO programmes
6  for encouraging endogenous audio-visual production capacity. We believe that these programmes ought to be  continued and promoted. We also regard as positive UNESCO’s efforts to encourage support for freedom of the  press an4 on a wider scale, freedom of expression with meetings such as the one held recently in Asia. Only  when these freedoms are in place cari truc communication be guaranteed within countries and at international  level.
(2.10) With actions such as these we are sure that UNESCO will strengthen its intellectual leadership, which  is SO necessary at this time of transition when we feel that one era bas passed and another is opening up before us.  We must undoubtedly think of the children and Young people and try and foresee what their needs will be over  the next few decades. For the fiist tinte in history illiteracy is on the wane throughout the world and this is an  unprecedented occurrence. The literacy rate has overtaken the birth rate and this situation, unheard-of in the  history of humanity, also presents us with the challenge of providing the literate population with adequate  opporhmities.
(2.11) Mr President, the responsibility of UNESCO in the task of working towards better times for humanity is  great. Intolerance and lack of understanding of those who are different or who think differently is still a11 tco  commonplace. There are still people who believe that force and the machinery of war are normal resources. We  still see anti-democratic outbursts and attempts to hinder modernization. The task before us is a difficult one but  those of us who believe in education, harmony and dialogue feel encouraged. Like that wise knight, Don Quixote  de la Mancha, we know that the most important thing is to believe and have faith in our ideals, because, as  Cervantes’s immortal character said, ‘there is no greater misfortune, my dear sirs, than to wander without  conviction’.
(2.12) Those of US who believe in this Organization and who are convinced of the importance of its goals are  duty-bound to honour our commitments and to co-operate in the task of strengthening its influence and helping it  recover its universal nature as soon as possible. That is the commitment we take on with you as witnesses. Thank  you very much.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Uruguay delegation and commend him for being brief.  ANNONCE DE L’OCTROI DU PRIX McLUHAN TELEGLOBE CANADA  ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE GRANTING OF THE McLUHAN TELEGLOBE CANADA AWARD  CONCESION DEL PREMIO McLUHAN TELEGLOBO CANADA  COOBI.l&EHHE 0 IIPHCY>Y4EHHH HPEMHR MAK-JIIO3HA (TeJrernoG-Karrana)  +LJI &+lg &jjlrJ dL 2$Ib + &CI  fiu~ks?%Ptx~~~42!m!!t3B~
(4) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now begin the ceremonies for the McLuhan Prize. 1 cal1 on MS Roseann  Runte, President of the Canadian National Commission for UNESCO to announce the winners of the prize.
5.1 Mme RUNTE (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conference génerale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil executif,  Monsieur le Directeur géneral, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Prix  McLuhan Teléglobe Canada a éte crée par la Commission canadienne pour l’UNESCO, en association avec  Téleglobe Canada, prestataire exclusif des services de tél&ommunications intercontinentales du Canada. Créé  en 1983, il se situe dans le droit fil des préoccupations de l’UNl3SCO en matière de communication. Nous  sommes donc h-es reconnaissants a l’Organisation de lui avoir accordé son patronage.
5.2 Ce prix international de 50.000 dollars canadiens, accompagné d’une médaille commémorative créCe  par l’artiste canadienne Lois Betteridge, est décerné tous les deux ans et a pour objet de mettre en lumière  toute oeuvre ou toute action qui a contribué, d’une manière exceptionnelle, à mieux faire comprendre
159    l’influence exercée par les moyens et les technologies de communication sur la société en général, et plus  particulièrement sur sa vie culturelle, artistique et scientifique. Le prix rend ainsi hommage à la memoire de ce  grand philosophe canadien de la communication, Marshall McLuhan.
5.3 Il est fait appel, pour sa mise en oeuvre, a la coopération et à la solidarité du réseau des commissions  nationales pour l’UNESCO, puisque ce sont elles qui selectionnent les candidatures et nous les transmettent. Je  veux exprimer ici toute ma reconnaissance aux commissions nationales, ainsi qu’aux gouvernements qui  appuient leurs efforts, pour leur indispensable collaboration. Sans leur réponse exemplaire à l’appel qui leur a  ete lancé, cette initiative n’aurait pu connaître le succès qui est le sien.  (The speaker continued in English)
5.4 In the name of the Canadian Commission for UNESCO and Teleglobe, 1 now bave the honour of  announcing the names of the winners of the 1993 McLuhan Teleglobe Canada Award. They are  MS Freda Glynn and Mr Philip Batty of Australia.
5.5 In Canada we recount the legend of a person named Johnny Appleseed, who traversed the country  planting small seeds from which sprang the trees whose shade and fruits we enjoy today. Like this folk hero,  Freda Glynn and Philip Batty are responsible for planting a small but beautiful idea which has grown into a  powerful vehicle of communication and education. Like the sturdy apple trees, the roots of this network are  firmly planted in the rich and fertile soi1 of local cultures, language and inspiration.
5.6 Freda Glynn and Philip Batty were instrumental in establishing the Central Australian Aboriginal  Media Association, an organization based in Alice Springs that operates a 24-hour satellite service carrying  television and radio programmes across an area the size of Western Europe. The service extends to a majority  of States and reaches ahnost ail the isolated aboriginal communities in Australia. Beyond the establishment of  the Association, the work of these pioneers in communication and distance education has led to the creation of  over 100 aboriginal media groups throughout the country which, with CAAMA, produce hundreds of hours of  radio and television programmes every week in nine languages.
5.7 The Award Will be officiahy presented to Freda Glynn and Philip Batty by the Mayor of Montreal, His  Worship Jean Doré, at a ceremony which Will take place in Montreal on 24 November. The President and Chief  Executive Oflïcer of Teleglobe Canada Inc., André LeBel, joins us in extending oui warmest congratulations to  the two-person team of laureates, Freda Glynn and Philip Batty. Thank you, Mr President.
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Many thanks to MS Roseann Runte, President of the Canadian National Commission for UNESCO.  Allow me to express, on behalf of everyone here, our appreciation for Canada’s initiative in establishing the  McLuhan Prize. Thank you vexy much.
(6.2) 1 now give the floor to the Director-General.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like, on behalf of UNESCO and on my own behalf, to congratulate  Ms Freda Glynn and Mr Philip Batty on being awarded the McLuhan Teleglobe Canada Prize for 1993. Their  initiative in establishing - with and for the aboriginal population - an organization for the production of audio-  visual programmes and their satellite transmission throughout central Australia is notable bath for the benefit it  has brought to indigenous communities, particularly the most remote ones, and also as an example for others to  follow. This is a project, firstly, that recognizes that what is required today is, above ah, a system that helps  disadvantaged peuple to help themselves. It is a project based on participation, on facilitating the expression  and development of indigenous capacities. It is, secondly, a venture that illustrates the enormous and largely  untapped potential of modem communication media to help bridge the knowledge gap between and within
6  countries, to forge and strengthen cducational and cultural links within and between peoples and to contribute  in this way to what our Constitution refers to as the intellect& and moral solidarity of mankind. The project  may finally serve as a timely reminder in this International Year of the World’s Indigenous People that the way  we treat minorities is a litmus test of the healtb of our democracies, since the tolerance of diiference, respect for  difference, is fundamental to the democratic contract. This applies all the more strongly to indigenous people  since they represent, by definition, a former majority.
7.2 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 congratulate once again, the 1993 McLuhan Teleglobe prize-  winners, Ms Freda Glynn and Mr Philip Batty, and thank Teleglobe Canada and the Canadian National  Commission for sponsoring and promoting this important award. Thank you for your attention.
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Director-General. Our thanks once again to Canada for this initiative.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OECYXJJEHME BOIIPOCOB OBIII,E#I IIOJIMTMKkI (nponoJrxeme)  (& LWI La-Jr UL;  ,gg%%% ( $6 )
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now resume the debate on general policy and cal1 on MS Tytti  Isohookana-Asunmaa, Minister of Culture and head of the delegation of Finland.
10.1 MS ISOHOOKANA-ASUNMAA (Finland):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate you,  Mr President, and wish you every success in your responsible task. The delegation of Finland is rcady to  support you in every way possible in order to help to ensure a successful session of the General Conference. 1  also want to use this opportunity to extend a sincere welcome to the new Member States which have joined  UNESCO at this session.
10.2 Mr President, the world we live in today is undergoing changes which are more violent, more rapid  and less predictable tban at any time since the Second World War. Whilst 1 do not wish to spcak of the world as  a ‘global village’, it is undeniable that the present global links in the economy and in technology and  communication make possible an extremely rapid dissemination of knowledge, skills and experiences within  the international community and they Will thus have an immediate impact on each other. We need to be better  informed about the variety and complexity of the choices, options and problems facing people in different  cultures. We expect that the work of the World Commission on Culture and Development, presided over by  Mr Javier Perez de Cuellar, will make an important contribution in this respect.
10.3 My own country and othets in Europe are facing profound structural changes. The process of  integration in oui continent coincides witb the dismantling of the old social systems in Eastern Europe. These  processes of integration and differentiation are by no means painless, as we well know. Such extensive changes  highlight UN&Xc)‘s role as a proponent of peace, mutual understanding, tolerance and international co-  operation. In advancing humanitarian, cultural and educational objectives, our Organization should be able to  reinforce the peace-building efforts of the whole United Nations system.
10.4 Culture must be recognized as a factor influencing all human activity. Culture in its widest sense nceds  serious consideration in the planning of future development strategies. Technological, economic and social
161    information is indispensable for solving present-day problems, but it is impossible to achieve balanced and  sustainable development without taking cultural aspects into account.
10.5 Factors relating to language, culture and religion bath divide and unite nations. The status of small  and minority cultures is often an important consideration in nationalistic and ethnie conflicts. It is essential for  the peaceful development of societies that the cultural identities of different population groups should be  sustained in a spirit of tolerance. A sound cultural identity and self-respect are conducive to acceptance and  respect of others. If we neglect our culture, we neglect our future. If culture cannot find its positive strength, we  drift into disintegration and conflict. An important factor in the withering of languages and cultures is that the  education systems operate only in the language of majorities. People representing small, endangered languages  and cultures should be able to get instruction in their mother tongue. Gnly this ensures cultural empowerment.  By making room for small cultures and strengtbening linguistic plurality, we promote peaceful development  and stable conditions.
10.6 Finland endorses fully the proposal to make women one of the three priorities in UNESCo’s  programmes. Particular attention must be paid to women’s role in strengthening and disseminating cultural  values, and passing on culture-related knowledge and skills to new generations.
10.7 In a11 the sectors of UNESCo’s programme, it is possible to take measures to strengthen creative and  constructive resources in society. In the view of the Finnish Govemment, special attention should be paid to  action promoting tolerance, respect for human rights and an appreciation of different cultures. This work  should be an integral, intersectoral part of UNESCo’s programme. The Finnish Govemment also endorses the  Director-Generalk proposa1 to the United Nations to declare 1995 the Year of Tolerance.
10.8 Finland agrees with the emphasis that has been put on international intellect& co-operation as one of  the corner-stones of the Organization in UNESCO’s next Programme and Budget. Here 1 should like to mention  a couple of new examples of smoothly running regional co-operation: the work done by the Council of Baltic  Sea States as well as the Euro-Arctic co-operation in the Barents Sea area, which through its practically  oriented objectives seeks to address itself to the grass-roots level. In Finland’s immediate vicinity, there are  numerous Finno-Ugric and Baltic sister nations, whose languages and cultures remained almost hidden, even to  us, for several decades. With the re-emerging interaction in the fields of arts, education, sports, youth and  communication, these peoples have become an essential part of our regional co-operation. A cultural conference  called Kaukametsa - which in English roughly means remote forest - Will be arranged in Finland next summer  to discuss the interaction of cultures in this subregion.
10.9 My delegation looks forward to the debate on the fourth Medium-Term Plan, which Will be launched at  this session of the General Conference. At this stage, 1 wish to express our general agreement with the thoughts  put forward in the document submitted to the General Conference. The fourth Medium-Term Plan should have  a clearer and more flexible structure than the present Plan, and avoid details. In our view, the programme  should be further streamlined, SO that the Organization cari concentrate on major questions of absolute priority.  We also agree with the emphasis that the Director-General has put on adaptation to the new schemes of co-  operation within a renovated United Nations system. The Medium-Term Plan document should also steer  UNESCo’s activities towards long-term action. It should provide continuity to the Programme and Budget,  because two years is a short time-span in terms of the goal-oriented activities of the Organization.
10.10 We hope that the Medium-Term Plan preparation process itself Will not be SO heavy as before. The  members of the National Commissions represent the highest national expertise in UNESCo’s fields of activity.  They are well versed in our Organization, and have accepted their positions of trust on ideological grounds. It  is important that the creative intellect& resources available in the National Commissions should contribute  fully to planning. This is possible only if the process is not too heavy, time-consuming and bureaucratie. 1 also  wish to emphasize the significance of the National Commissions as well-motivated bodies, deeply committed to  their tasks, in other words to UNESCo’s aims. As 1 see it, their expertise should be used even more in  UNESCo’s high-level expert organs.
10.11 Mr President, in two years the United Nations Educational, Scient& and Cultural Organization Will  celebrate its ftitieth anniversary. At that time we want to see UNESCO as an efficient and universal  Organization, fully capable of meeting the challenges of the late 1990s. With this in mind, my government  pledges its continuing support to UNESCO.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Finland and also thank her for being brief. Ladies and gentlemen,  as Mr Barry Owen Jones is otherwise engaged, 1 now give the floor to Mr Yahyia Bin Mahfoudh Al-Mandhary,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Sultanate of Oman.
(12.1) Mr AL-MANDHABY (Oman) (Translation from the Arabie):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference, His  Excellency the Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, the heads of  delegation, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, 1 should like, first of all, to congratulate you on your appointment  to the office of President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference and wish you every success in  this task. 1 should also like to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to Professor Ogof the President of the  previous session, on the exemplary manner in which he conducted the debates of the General Confetence and on  the good results achieved. 1 should also like to thank the Chairperson and members of the Executive Board for  their efforts in laying down a successful framework for the coming session and for its budget. Finally, 1 should  like to thank His Excellency the Director-General for his wise leadership of the Organization, a role for which he  has demonstrated his ability through his snuctural reforms and numerous effective measures introduced despite  the critical financial circumstances experienced by UNESCO.
(12.2) Standing before this international gathering, 1 have the pleasure of conveying to you the greetings of His  Highness Sultan Qaboos Bin Said. It is his hope that the Conference Will be a success, that our aspirations Will be  realized and that our Conference Will achieve its desired goals, reaching decisions and recommendations to which  the Member States aspire for the advancement of mankind and for the achievement of the highest level of  prosperity for people everywhere.
(12.3) Mr Presidenf before comment& on the Programme And Budget, 1 should like to express my  appreciation for the excellent presentation of document 27 C/5 by the Director-General, for the innovative  approach concentrating on a number of major programme areas, and for the increase in the budgets allocated to  priority areas. We should also like to express our satisfaction that education has been given the priority it  deserves, particularly in the developing countries, which need the help of UNESCO to improve the quality of  teaching and the use of modem technological aids in scientific programmes. We further support the Director-  General’s report with regard to intellectual co-operation and the creation of a special thiuk-tank. We hope that the  experts concerned will play new and innovative roles which will increase the efficiency of UNESCO and  publicize its main concems. We also commend the clear aims of the World Commission on Culture and  Development. We appreciate the importance of the Commission and understand full well how much development  depends on the talents, experience and creativity of men such as its members.
(12.4) Mr President, we support the efforts exerted by the Secretariat to bring about decentralization and to  support UNESCO’s presence in the field. However, as this is a process which Will vary fiom one region to  another, account must be taken of the differences and a gradualist approach must be adopted. It is important that
165    decentralization should be assessed at every stage. Equally, it is necessary to strengthen the administrative and  financial resources of the Regional Offices, to train existing staff and to recruit additional competent personnel SO  as to enable these Offices to discharge their responsibilities satisfactorily. At the same time, we would emphasize  the importance of supporting the National Commissions in Member States.
(12.5) We would like to express our support for the increase in the resources made available for the  Participation Programme. The rise from US $15.4 million to US $25 million is needed, in view of the importance  of this Programme for the Member States. We would like to see more efforts to improve the efficiency of the  management of this Programme and to introduce gradua1 assessment. We would not like to see this Programme  decentralized, save within the capabilities of Regional Offices and National Commissions.
(12.6) Mr President, with your permission, 1 will make a few very brief general remarks concerning the main  areas submitted to us in document 27 C/5. We support the absolute priority given to basic education for a11 and to  the modemization of secondary education, with the emphasis on training teachers and pmviding them with  refresher courses and retraining. This approach is well received in Oman, where great importance is attached to  education and teaching. The Government of Oman believes that education is the right way to achieve progress and  prosperity and we respond to every sincere effort to attain the desired objectives of education. In this regard, we  would like to mention the importance of the activities undertaken by the International Bureau of Education and  the International Institute for Educational Planning.
(12.7) As regards the new structure proposed for the second major programme area, namely giving the highest  priorîty to education and information in the field of the environment, we are of the view that facilities should be  provided for research and training in the basic and applied sciences, engineering and water resources and the  transfer of environmentally appropriate tectmology. We further cal1 for increased efforts to pmtect nature and the  environment and feel that it is important for the Organization to follow up the recommendations of the United  Nations Conference on Environment and Development. Those recommendations have been taken to heart in our  country and everyone is now aware of the leading role assumed by the Government of the Sultanate of Oman in  the field of environmental protection and the fight against pollution, at regional, Arab and international level.  This was made abundantly clear in the speech given by His Majesty Sultan Qaboos at the Earth Summit  Conference in Brazil in 1992. His Majesty called for hannony between man and his environment and for  ca-ordination and co-operation in the environmental field. He warned that the pursuit of prosperity and industrial  progress would be in vain if it failed to take into account the balance necessary between development and the  environment and if it did not pay heed to the negative effects on the atmosphere, the ozone layer, the rivers and  the seas, the extinction of certain species, the destruction of forests and the pollution of fertile soil. TO crown  these efforts, His Majesty has announced the introduction of an international prize in the field of the environment  and nature conservancy, to be awarded to institutions or individuals, chosen by UNESCO, who have made a  special contribution in this domain.
(12.8) Mr President, we should like to say that we are fully convinced by and are happy with the programmes  proposed for the protection of the world’s cultural and natural heritage. We believe that it is essential to raise the  profile of the World Decade for Cultural Development. This is yet another important achievement of the  Organization and it clearly underlines the central position occupied by culture in the life of mankind. We also  stress our belief in the role of cultural development in achieving comprehensive development and express our  satisfaction with the excellent results realized by the implementation of the Silk Roads programme (roads of  dialogue between cultures), a programme to which our country has made an effective contribution. This stems  from Orna& conviction of the importance of dialogue between nations and its support for co-operation between  thi3n.
(12.9) The Sultanate has devoted special attention to the monuments of the past and to the revival of the  Omaui people’s ancient heritage. T~US, the Sultanate has been maintaining, repairing, protecting and publicizing  its archaeological sites, with the co-operation of Arab and international consultants. We are proud to note that  certain Omani sites - such as the Bahla Fort and the Bata cemeteries - are included on the World Heritage List. It  is our hope that, with the help and support of the Organization, the Jiddat Al-Harasis site will be registered as  folming part of the international natural heritage. The oryx has been saved from extinction and reintroduced into  this region as a living symbol of the protection of the environment and the maintenance of the balance of nature.
(12.10) Mr Presidenf the Sultanate is extremely concemed to build bridges of constructive co-operation with  UNESCO. Oman takes part in a11 its conferences, gatherings, activities and programmes and responds to its calls  for support, because it believes in the humanitarian role assumed by this international organization. Being aware  of the importance of contacts and closer ties between the peace-loving peoples of this earth and in order to  support the efforts and mission of UNESCO in this field, we stress the need to develop the resources of  developing countries in the field of communications. New ways must be found to strengthen the role played by  telecommunications and the media in education, peace and development and to promote the activities of regional  information and information-processing networks. We support the special attention paid to the preparation for the  United Nations Conference on Population and Development. In this regard, we would like to emphasize the  success achieved by the International Congress on Population Education and Development, held in Istanbul.  Recognizing the importance of the Congress, the Sultanate sent a high-level delegation. We also support the  drawing up of an international programme for the social sciences.
(12.11) In addition, we support the programme to encourage Young people to promote peace, human rights and  international understanding. In this wnnection, we would like to make special mention of the w-operation  between our wuntry and UNESCO in ensuring the success of International Youth Year, for it is the Young who  are the hope of our wuntry and those who will make its future. Hence, attention and tare have been lavished on  Young people by our govemment, to provide them with opportunities to express their creative ideas and to give  them all the means necessary to display their talents and abilities and to realize their full potential. In this regard,
1 would like to psy tribute to the increasing co-operation between the Sultanate of Oman and UNESCO in the  field of youth, particularly the support given by the Director-General and UNESCO’s Division of Youth to the  programmes currently being implemented in the Sultanate on the occasion of Youth Year.
(12.12) Meanwhile, our govermnent bas not neglected the issue of women and their great humanitarian role.  Women have been given full attention and tare, to ensure that they receive the social, educational and cultnral  preparation needed to afford them the opportunity to engage in employment appropriate to their nature and abiiity  and in keeping with the traditions of our Arab, Islamic society.
(12.13) Finally, Mr President, we cannot but applaud the efforts exerted by the Diictor-General to make a  success of the plan for the development of Arab culture, a plan which enjoyed the personal support of His  Majesty, the Sultan of Oman. We look forward to more programmes in this project SO that the desired goal may  be achieved. We also stress our support and encouragement for the establishment of the Priority: Africa  programme. It is right to wncentrate attention on this continent and on its least-developed countries and we  believe that the maximum support should be allocated to African countries suffering hardship in areas falling  withm UNESCO’s fields of competence.
(12.14) TO conclude, 1 would like to welcome the States which have recently joined the Organization. I cal1 on  the remainiug States to join UNESCO SO as to wnfirm the principle of its universality and in order to generate  better understandmg and wider support, both for its long-term objectives and for its day-to-day activities.
(12.15) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 thank you for your attention and wish this Conference of ours  every success.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the Omani delegation for this important speech. 1 now cal1 on Her Excellency, MS Cecilia  Gallardo de Cano, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of El Salvador.
(14.1) MS GALLARDO DE CANO (El Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen: The delegation from El Salvador is very pleased at your election to chair the proceedings of  the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We appreciate the dedication of the Director-  General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, and his performance at the head of our Organization. From this platform  we wish to renew our support for and our confidence in his performance as Director-General of UNESCO.
(14.2) Our first words in mis forum are to express our most fervent desire that the work of this twenty-seventh  session of the Conference Will help envisage new paths for this time in history, SO tbat a11 the peoples of the  Earth, immersed as we are in an ever more complex network, cari take into account, each in our own historical  context and looking beyond our own national realities and peculiarities, those aspects which constitute universal  consensus. We refer to the peaceful manner in which people must learn to resolve the great problems and  differences which confront us today and also to define our aspirations.
(14.3) In 1989, when we addressed the maximum forum of education, science and culture for tbe first tinte,  merely a few months after Alfredo Cristiani had taken office as Rresident of the Republic, we expressed his fïrm
169    conviction and commitment to spare no effort, will or ability to strengthen democracy and make it take fnm root  in our countiy.
(14.4) There is no doubt that the great challenge of this period of government has been to achieve peace. From  the outset, the Government of President Cristiani has engaged in promoting a process which would be viable and  lay the economic foundations to set in order this field of the utmost importance, facing up to the post-war period  with a vision of complete, sustainable and fair development. In the four years which have gone by, the Salvadoran  democratic process has been lmked to a peace process, absolutely necessary in order to bring to a satisfactory  conclusion the armed conflict which overwhehned and bled our dear country dry. Like an extraordinarily  nutritious graft, the peace process has lent force and dynamism to tbe democratic process, to the extent that both  processes are now identified as one single struggle which is accepted by the vast majority of Salvadorans. It might  be summed up in this one sentence: ‘Consolidate democracy on a basic understanding between all sections of  society in order to form the nucleus of an “Ongoing Nation Project”‘. Although this nation is situated in a small  developing counuy, it represents one of the most dynamic struggles for pacification, complex and yet one of the  most exemplary processes in contemporary history.
(14.5) Alongside the struggle to achieve peace, we were very much aware that we also had a responsibility to  confront at once the challenge to stabilize and readjust our economy, without demagoguery or improvisation. For  this reason, as from 1989, our government set in train a far-reaching transformation, based on the concept that  economic and social factors are inseparable. True development is inconceivable without human development.
(14.6) In short, we believe that our economic policy is helping to raise the standard of living of Salvadorans  and it has entered a phase of sustained growth, but our govemment is aware that a great deal remains to be done  to raise the living standards of the poorest people. The social programme in El Salvador is centred around the  search for those factors which are necessary to help break the vicious circle of the poverty trap. Education is the  basic factor in achieving this aim.
(14.7) On the subject of education, we must point out our persistent efforts to expand the coverage of the  school system and to prolong schooling. This is the reason for making basic education a priority.
(14.8) Over the last three years we have managed to extend pre-school caver and to improve the performance  of the system SO that learning goals may be attained. Educational materials have been made more widely available  in schools and in-service training for teachers has been increased considerably. The functions of the Ministry of  Education have bcen strengthened as an essential tool for improving the education process, and a national  curriculum is currently being drawn up on a participatory basis.
(14.9) A new facet of the education service has allowed us not only to widen the local participation base but  also to increase access to and coverage of the system in those traditionally depressed areas most affected by the  armed conflict. This education programme with community participation (EDUCO) has permitted us to transfer  participation in education management to the community to a large extent, and to share our experience with other  countries.
(14.10) One of our main aims is to reduce illiteracy rates. In explicit support of the pacification and national  reconstruction process being undergone in ouï country, the second Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State held  in Madrid agreed to support the ‘Literacy and Basic Education for Adults Programme’, which aims to reduce  illiteracy considerably over the next three years.
(14.11) We have also made a great effort to stimulate the reading habit. A new building has been acquired for  the National Libraty destroyed in the 1986 earthquake. The school library and public library programme has been  minforced. El Salvador has joined CERLAC and book production by national authors has increased by 37 per  cent. Support has been given, through the Minisuy of Education, for the UNESCO paper-book programme to  maximize the use of this type of publication in schools. The draft ‘Book Law’ presented to the Legislative  Assembly, during an event graced by the presence of the Director-General, is currently under debate and is, above  all, proof positive of this effort.
(14.12) In the wide paths of culture we have also had significant success with the recovery and preservation of  the archaeological site ‘Joya de Cerén’, a magnificent showcase of Pre-Columbian domestic architecture which  was buried under ancient volcanic ashes. With the support of UNESCO we have applied to the World Heritage  Committee to have the site included in the World Heritage List. Our Legislative Assembly has recently passed a  special law for the protection of the cultural heritage of El Salvador. We also hosted and organized the first Latin  American Meeting for Cultural Legislation held in November 1992, and we have joined the cultural information  system of Latin America and the Caribbean. However, given the dramatic events of our history, efforts in the area  of culture must now strengthen the sense of cohesion and contribute to the rediscovery of our roots. This is  important to help us develop a sense of self-esteem and identity after the conflict we have lived through. In short,  it must help us to identify and rediscover the most significant factor for any nation - a sense of common destiny.
(14.13) In a peace process such as the one we are living through, we Salvadorans have realized that democracy  is not something that cari be established by decree or a stroke of luck and then enjoyed indefinitely thereafter.
6  Now, we Salvadorans feel that we are discovering one another as ordinary, vulnerable hum‘an beings, with  ordinary, everyday needs and dreams, without ideological idols to adore because the old order, what is left of it,  and the inevitable tragic aftermath, have taught us that there is a pragmatic, moral imperative which cannot wait,  and that is to build a new culture of peace which will hclp the people of our time to know themselves and to  prepare them for a challenge which is even more complex than it seems: preparing people for the immediate  future as individuals capable of developing their positive energies for peace.
(14.14) The efforts to consolidate a culture of peace wcre the most important conclusion of the National Forum  of Reflection on education and culture held in April of this year with the participation of all the community  leaders in the counny. It was inaugurated by the Director-General of UNESCO, who on that occasion announced  the ‘San Salvador Summons’ and appealed to all world leaders to promote learning and living together in a ‘culture  of peace’.
(14.15) Since that event, our country has embarked upon a dynamic, participative process to design a peace  culture programme which we have been working on, together with UNESCO, SO that equality will be considered  as the ethical component based on the values of justice, solidarity, respect for life, freedom and human rlghts, and  tolerance. We must develop an awareness of shared msponsibility: in essence, a culture which cari transfonn  attitudes and individual and social behaviour; a new national culture. In order to build this new culture of peace  we need political, moral and financial support from the international community and, as President Cristiani told  the General Assembly of the United Nations a few days ago, ‘We want to crase from our minds the dismaying  evidence that it is easier to obtain financing for war than fïnancing for peace. The culture of peace, which is a  worldwide challenge, must also be apparent in this fundamental change of priorities’.
(14.16) Fortunately, we are in a position to say that today El Salvador is learning about peace. We still have to  implement a concrete action programme to consolidate a culture of peace. At the present tinte El Salvador is  preparing to celebrate the fiist International Fornm for a peace culture with the patronage of UNESCO and the  political support of the Heads of State of the third Ibero-American Summit held in July of this year in Brazil. This  forum Will be held in El Salvador in February 1994 and its aim will be to contribute to the search for common  elements which will allow us to design a culture of peace and to identify factors which cari help prevent conflicts  in our countries.
(14.17) Mr President, delegates, we hope for effective intellectual co-opemtion where solidarity, human  development and peace will be inseparable. TO conclude, El Salvador fervently desires at this twenty-seventh  session of the General Conference that, through the renewed stimulus which the Diictor-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, has given the Organization, UNESCO will succeed in replacing the pmmised Utopias of the past with a  new and fruitful pragmatism which will benefit our citizens. In El Salvador we no longer die for ideas. We work  to achieve realities. Thank you very much.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of El Salvador for this important speech.
15.2 Et maintenant j’ai l’honneur et le grand plaisir d’inviter Mme la Presidente Marie Bernard-Meunier,  chef de la delegation du Canada, a prendre la parole.
16.1 Mme BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez qu’en ma qualite, cette fois, de chef de la délegation du Canada a la  vingt-septième session de la Conference generale de l’UNESCO, je vous exprime toutes mes félicitations pour  votre élection et mes voeux de succès pour cette Conference générale placée sous votre direction avisée.
16.2 Monsieur le President de la Conference generale, Monsieur le Vice-President du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur gtneral, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de delegation, depuis la dernière session de la  Conference generale, la carte politique du monde s’est considerablement transformée. La communauté des  nations s’est enrichie de nouveaux membres, qui nous feront beneficier de leur culture et de leur expérience.  Force est de constater, cependant, que les antagonismes ethniques et les intolerances culturelles et religieuses  empêchent toutes ces transformations de se dérouler dans l’harmonie. Les conflits existants mettent en lumière  le fait que la paix et le développement ne pourront se materialiser a long terme sans une véritable volonte de  partage entre les Etats et au sein même des Etats.
16.3 La réalisation simultanée de ces deux objectifs, développement et paix, se heurte a des obstacles de ~  deux ordres. Les premiers sont d’ordre structure1 et sont liés a la capacite productive des Cconomies de sociétés  qui ne peuvent répondre aux besoins essentiels de populations dont la croissance est exponentielle. C’est ainsi  que les deséquilibres sociaux s’accentuent de façon dramatique, tant à l’int&ieur des pays qu’entre les régions  géographiques du globe. Nous continuons à croire qu’un effort concerté de la communauté internationale peut  et doit contribuer a renverser cette tendance, pour arriver a un partage plus équitable des ressources. Les  seconds obstacles auxquels nous devons faire face relèvent de la meconnaissance et de l’ignorance et nous  empêchent de parvenir aussi à un plus juste partage des responsabilités.
16.4 Tous ces obstacles peuvent être surmontis. L’Organisation des Nations Unies, en raison de la nature  de son mandat, s’y efforce en oeuvrant dans plusieurs domaines.
16.5 Le premier champ d’action, et le plus évident parce qu’à la base de toute action consensuelle, est celui  du partage de l’information et de la concertation politique.
16.6 Le second champ d’action, plus concret, est celui de l’aide humanitaire. Celle-ci a toujours éte et  continuera d’être un champ d’intervention privilégie par le Canada. Et c’est dans cet esprit que nous donnons  notre soutien au Département des affaires humanitaires de l’Organisation des Nations Unies.
16.7 Le troisième champ d’action regroupe les activités opérationnelles a plus ou moins long terme, qui  veulent associer la communauté internationale au développement économique des régions dans leur ensemble  ainsi qu’au processus de résolution des conflits.
16.8 Enfin, le champ d’action le plus difficile peut-être, parce que les progrès accomplis sont difficiles à  mesurer et & évaluer, c’est celui des relations interculturelles et du développement de la personne. C’est dans ce  domaine d’action qu’il revient à l’UNESCO d’apporter sa contribution à l’édification d’une société plus juste et  démocratique.
16.9 S’il est vrai que les droits de la personne constituent la base essentielle de toute démocratie, et que des  progrès notables ont été realises sur la voie du respect de ces droits, nous devons cependant constater que leur  reconnaissance est encore toute relative et fragile. De là l’importance de la mise en oeuvre du Plan d’action  mondial pour l’éducation aux droits de l’homme et a la démocratie issu du Congrès organisé par l’UNESCO et  le Centre des des Nations Unies pour les droits de l’homme a Montréal, en mars 1993, mise en oeuvre dont le  Directeur général a confié le mandat aux commissions nationales.
16.10 Mais connaître ses droits ne suffit pas, il faut savoir et pouvoir les exercer, ce qui est impossible,  concretement, sans l’acquisition préalable de connaissances reliées a tous les domaines et niveaux de  l’éducation et de la mémoire culturelle. Cette importance de l’education et de l’accès au savoir, pour un  développement équitable de l’humanité, nous a Cté rappelée de façon très pertinente par les membres du Forum  de réflexion ad hoc. L’éducation est en effet le fondement même du développement et l’UNESCO doit  continuer a en faire sa priorité absolue. L’education est aussi un moyen privilégié pour transmettre le message  d’une coexistence culturelle fondée sur l’unité de l’humanité et sur l’universalite des cultures, fondée également  sur la différence, le respect des autres. Monsieur le Président, l’UNESCO, il nous semble, doit orienter son  Programme pour répondre à ces exigences, qui ne sont pas nouvelles, mais qui sont en revanche de plus en  plus pressantes.
16.11 La Conférence générale est appelée à adopter le Programme et budget de l’Organisation pour 1994-
1995. Nous voulons, en tout premier lieu, exprimer au Directeur général notre satisfaction devant la qualité du  document qui est soumis a notre attention. Le Canada approuve les principes directeurs du Programme pour le  prochain exercice biennal et partage la conviction que l’action de notre Organisation doit s’articuler autour de  quelques axes majeurs et s’y tenir avec rigueur. Les travaux en commissions de programme nous permettront  de faire des commentaires plus détaillés sur l’ensemble du Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain  biennium. Permettez-moi cependant de souligner l’importance que nous attachons aux priorités suivantes.
16.12 Le Canada est très heureux de l’initiative prise par WNESCO de créer la Commission internationale  sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle. Nous croyons que, dans le cadre des mutations qui affecteront nos  différents pays, “l’Éducation peut faire la difference” comme le rappelait recernment M, Jacques Delors,  président de la Commission, Et je me permets de dire a ce sujet que nous sommes tres heureux que la  Commission Delors ait accepté de tenir une réunion au Canada en avril prochain. Les changements sociaux,
6  économiques, politiques et techno-scientifiques bouleversent les équilibres qui constituent les fondements des  systèmes éducatifs. Ces bouleversements nécessitent des ajustements Cducatifs qui, jusqu’a un certain point,  sont propres à chaque communauté. Ils nous invitent aussi a nous interroger sur les finalites de l’éducation, sur  son rôle dans la formation de la personne et du citoyen et sur la nécessaire ouverture à l’universel qui s’impose.  Une telle reflexion engage l’entière communauté des nations et nous sommes heureux de constater que  l’UNESCO a assume le rôle de chef de file à cet égard.
16.13 Dans le domaine culturel, où l’UNESCO se distingue depuis fort longtemps par son activite en faveur  de la promotion du concept de patrimoine commun de l’humanité, nous devons nous feliciter de la creation de  l’Organisation des villes du patrimoine dont l’idée a eté lancée lors de la réunion de l’UNESCO sur les villes du  patrimoine mondial, tenue a Quebec en juillet 1991 et dont le siege a éte détermine le mois dernier a Fès au  Maroc. Le Canada est à la fois heureux et honoré que la ville de Québec ait 6té choisie comme siège du  secr&ariat de cette organisation. Il s’agit là dune nouvelle preuve de l’action catalytique de l’UNESCO et de  l’importance grandissante accordée au développement culturel et a la dimension culturelle du développement,  puisque c’est avant tout le partage des connaissances et des expériences culturelles qui en constituera la cle de  voûte. Nous appuyons l’action de l’UNESCO dont les instruments normatifs contribuent autant au domaine de  la protection des biens culturels qu’à celui des droits des createurs et des artistes et de la propriété  intellectuelle. La célebration du centenaire du cinema et la préservation du patrimoine audiovisuel qui l’une,  souligne une importante découverte du XXe siècle et l’autre, ouvre les portes aux nouvelles technologies pour  le XXIe siècle, méritent notre appui.
16.14 Nous sommes heureux des efforts de concentration qui ont été accomplis grâce aux regroupements  des domaines de la communication, de l’information et de l’informatique, et c’est avec satisfaction que nous  avons pris connaissance des activités prevues à cette fin dans le Projet de programme. Au cours de l’exercice  qui prendra bientôt Iïn, beaucoup d’interêt et d’appui ont été exprimes au Canada pour les initiatives relatives  au programme de formation des journalistes ainsi qu’à SOS Média, initiatives grâce auxquelles l’UNESCO  affirme son soutien au développement d’une presse au service du developpement démocratique. Dans le cadre  de la Conference mondiale sur les femmes qui aura lieu à Beijing en 1995, la préconférence prévue sur “les  femmes et les médias” a tout particulièrement retenu notre attention et le Canada se propose de collaborer  activement à cette importante reflexion dans un domaine qui pourrait être crucial.
16.15 Dans le domaine des sciences sociales et humaines, nous appuyons le projet de création d’un  programme international intitule “Gestion des transformations sociales”, et connu sous le sigle MOST. Nous  considérons tout à fait normal que ce programme, qui est toujours dans sa phase initiale de gestation, requière  un certain nombre d’ajustements et de mises au point.
16.16 Dans le secteur des sciences naturelles, c’est le suivi de la Conference des Nations Unies sur  l’environnement et le developpement qui nous apparaît particulièrement important et nous nous réjouissons de  constater que l’étude de certaines problematiques précises ait Cte confiee a l’UNESCO et qu’en cela, elle  collabore Ctroitement avec les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies. Je ne peux que rappeler ici  aussi l’importance particulière que le Canada attache au programme d’Éducation a l’environnement.
16.17 Mon dernier point sur le programme portera sur l’intersectorialité, qui doit devenir une preoccupation  reelle et constante à tous les niveaux de l’Organisation. Il s’agit là en effet de la transposition, en termes  administratifs et structurels, de l’approche holistique que nous cherchons à donner aux activités de  l’Organisation, tant il est vrai que notre epoque a besoin de dépasser tous les cloisonnements intellectuels et  autres, qui la caractérisent. L’intersectorialité doit entrer dans les habitudes de travail du Secretariat, comme  l’evaluation et la concentration des activités.
16.18 Monsieur le President, le Canada tient également à rappeler son intérêt pour la poursuite de la  modernisation et de la rationalisation des pratiques budgetaires et administratives de l’Organisation ; c’est dans  cette optique qu’il présente la candidature de M. Denis Desautels, vérificateur général du Canada, au poste de  Commissaire aux comptes de l’UNESCO. Le Canada souhaiterait ainsi poursuivre, sous une autre forme,  l’action qu’il a menée au sein du Conseil exécutif au cours des quatre dernières annees. Le Canada demeure  conscient des contraintes et des limites financières qui sont celles de cette Organisation et nous sommes  reconnaissants au Directeur général des efforts qu’il a déployés pour tirer le meilleur parti possible d’une  situation difficile. De plus, nous félicitons le Directeur géneral d’avoir su garder, malgré une situation  financiere vulnérable, la confiance des Etats membres et des autres organisations internationales qui ont  continué a alimenter l’UNESCO en ressources extrabudgétaires. Il est d’autant plus impératif, en la
173    circonstance, que les énergies de tous soient mobilisées pour identifier, a l’int&ieur des limites qui sont les  nôtres, les activids les plus pertinentes a la fonction que nous désirons voir remplir par l’UNESCO dans la  conjoncture actuelle.
16.19 Monsieur le Président, je souhaite, en terminant, exprimer le voeu que, sous la conduite de son  Directeur, M. Federico Mayor, auquel nous nous apprêtons à renouveler notre confiance, l’Organisation  réussisse, durant les prochaines annbes, la metamorphose deja commende, qu’elle réaffirme sans faillir sa  vision éthique de 1’Homme et qu’elle continue, a l’instar des intellectuels qu’elle rassemble, à s’interroger sans  cesse sur les modalités de son action. Dans votre tâche difficile, Monsieur le Directeur gCnéral, vous pourrez  toujours compter sur le plein soutien du Canada. Je vous remercie.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Canada who, as always, adhered strictly to the rules. She bas set US  a11 a good example by not continuing after the red light. Thank you very much. 1 now cal1 on Mr Andrew Baing,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea.
18.1 Mr BAING (Papua New Guinea):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies, Mr Director-General,  distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey warm greetings to you from my govemment  and from the people of Papua New Guinea. Although some of us may be feeling a little cold, 1 am sure you Will  agree that we are fortunate to be gathered together in this Splendid City of Paris, for a worthy cause. Let me  also, on behalf of my govemment, congratulate the new members who have just joined UNESCO, and in  particular, my Pacifïc neighbour, the country of Niue. Welcome to the club, and 1 hope he Will sincerely benefit  from all that UNESCO has to offer.
18.2 Mr President, let me hasten to congratulate you on your election to the office of President of the  twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. 1 also take this opportunity to thank your predecessor for his  fine contribution.
18.3 Mr President, human resource development is a very high priority of my government. Our relatively  small population of just over 3.7 million - over 80 per cent of whom live in the rural areas - constitutes one of  the world’s richest collections of distinct cultures. The diversity of ethnie types, represented not only by over
860 languages but also by marked differences in physical features, is remarkable. We strongly believe that we  cari harness this unmatched diversity to the positive gain of our people, and achieve unity in diversity, an  objective, you will agree, Mr President, that is not easy to achieve.
18.4 On behalf of my government and the people of Papua New Guinea, 1 reaffirm our support for the work  of this noble Organization and, before 1 go on to reflect on UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-
1995, let me commend the Secretariat for streamlining the programme structure presented in tbis document.
18.5 Since independence our key task bas been to harness resources to provide basic and relevant education  for our people. However, our illiteracy rate is still one of the highest in the Asia-Pacific region. Our high  attrition rate in primary schools and low access to secondary education are critical issues highlighted in our  recent review of our education system. We are introducing structural changes and hope to improve the literacy  rate from the current 53 per cent to 95 per cent by the year 2010.
18.6 We are directing increased attention to early childhood development, pre-primary education and  vocational education. We believe we cari make the curriculum more relevant to our needs and accelerate the  participation of women in national development. The extent to which these and other programme proposals cari  be pursued Will be better determined by a major resource study now in progress. Also, Mr President, we believe  that the spirit and commitment of Jomtien remains strong and we see no reason to stray from this in our  endeavours. We Will continue, however, to depend on international agencies, including those of the United  Nations system, for external assistance, and we are grateful for UNESCO’s continuing interest in our  developing nation.
18.7 The priorities of document 27 C/5 for the education sector are well supported. We find its focus to be  appropriate and encouraging. Papua New Guinea is pleased with the progress of the Pacilïc subregion  education sector through the Apia Office. We whole-heartedly support the basic education and life skills  programme, which Will incorporate funding from several donor organizations in a multi-faceted programme  approach executed by UNESCO, which has major emphasis on literacy and classroom skills. However,  Mr President, draft budget allocations for the Pacifie education sector - from which Papua New Guinea also  expects to benefit - are disappointing and do not adequately reflect tbe importance attached to these  programmes. It is of some comfort to know that this concem was collectively brought to the attention of the  Director-General by the Pacifïc member countries at our meeting in Kuala Lumpur this June. And 1 am happy  to note that the Director-General has responded positively to our needs and has reviewed our budget for the  Pacifie.
18.8 Proceeding to Major Programme Area II, the impact of science and technology on our country’s society  is direct and decisive. The resources of science and technology have to be utilized for our people, most of whom  live in rural areas where modem facilities are very much lacking. A science and technology policy statement  was approved in 1991 followed by enabling legislation passed by Parliament. The policy states that the goal is  ‘to optimize the quality of life of all Papua New Guineans through the sensible application of bath traditional  and modem science and technology, for sustainable development, in accordance with our national goals’.  Strengthening science and technology education is a focal aspect of the policy statement.
18.9 Mr President, we are grateful to UNESCO for its support for our participation in various Man and the  Biosphere (MAB) activities. We are also beginning to take a more active part in me International Hydrological  Programme (IHP). We commend the Director-General, Mr President, for the increase in the Draft Budget, as  well as for streamlining Major Programme Area II. We look forward to increasing our level of participation,  particularly through our university programmes in basic and engineering sciences. Although our 1992-1993  Participation Programme requests in science support these trends, funding has regrettably not yet been received.
18.10 Mr President, my government commends UNESCO for its support in appointing a Science Adviser for  the Pacifie Subregional Office. In this regard we would draw your attention to the UNESCO Pacifie Science  Programme: A Framework for Action, resulting from consultation with Pacifie Member States. It focuses on the  role that science and technology cari play in Pacifie development, and harmonizes UNHSCO’s programmes  with our initiatives. We draw particular attention to the Vaka Moana project. In the Pacifie, the omnipotence of  western science and technology is in danger of overshadowing the extensive uaditional knowledge base and its  accumulated wisdom. The science component of this interdisciplinary project is diiected to a fruitful synthesis  and application of bath traditional and Western knowledge for sustained resource development. We request,  Mr President, the support these initiatives deserve.
18.11 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 now turn to the area of culture where the increased budget  allocations are welcome. Much work is needed to explore, revive and investigate the vast and highly diversified  cultural and natural heritage of Papua New Guinea. Funding is a major constraint in this area, limiting our  efforts to instil unity through participation by the people in the process of cultural development.
18.12 Our culture service has undergone numerous changes since independence. A national cultural  commission is now to be established under a separate ministry, with a national cultural board to be the  executive decision-making body. Currently, my govemment’s objectives are designed to support the  development of the cultures of our indigenous people and at the same time keep their diverse identity in a  developing multicultural society.
18.13 We support the priorities UNESCO has given to this major programme area. We believe mat the  promotion of peace and international or intercultural understanding cannot be achieved without co-operation  from UNESCO. With the World Decade for Cultural Development, Papua New Guinea has already taken  initiatives to be involved in this international theme. We are participating in the development of the  interdisciplinary programme entitled Vaka Moana.
18.14 Looking further ahead, Mr President, the formulation of a national cultural policy is a critical area as  are the needs for theatre development and craft marketing and the effective linking of cultural groups in the  provinces. Our participation in several World Crafts Council (WCC) meetings has encouraged us to review our  priorities for the development and promotion of a crafts industry. The establishment of a national craft council  Will greatly assist our cause.
18.15 Regional co-operation remains vital, Mr President, and we urge our Asia-Pacific Member States to  continue to work together and share technical experience and expertise. 1 am pleased to note the present level of  regional co-operation, which includes the development of a social science cultural kit, photo contests,  vemacular translation and mater& development, training of cultural personnel tbrough training programmes  at the Asian Cultural Centre for UNESCO.
18.16 Mr President, with regard to book development and reading awareness, the proposals are encouraging.  Papua New Guinea participates in the Asian-Pacifie Co-operative Nehvorking Programme in Reading  Promotion and Book Development (APPRBB) now supported by the Asian Cultural Centre for UNESCO  (ACCU) from whose activities it continues to benefit. The lack of significant projects under APPREB auspices,  is, however, disappointing. Our reading awareness programmes Will not be promoted without support. The  need for a national book policy is still critical and the complicated matter of copyright remains to be resolved.
18.17 In relation to youth and women, there is a need to revise and strengthen existing policies in Papua  New Guinea. Youth policies and programmes must reflect the needs and aspirations of Young people, and tbe  needs of women must get fulI and equal consideration in our development planning, UNESCO’s programmes to  improve the status of women and foster more active participation of youth in the development of society deserve  our unqualifïed support.
18.18 Finally, Mr President, as one of the Pacifie island States, Papua New Guinea wishes to convey to Ibis  House its full support for the proposal by the Diiector-General to put in place a programme specifïcally geared  towards addressing problems faced by small island countries, and we Will give our support to this programme  but we require UNESCO’s assistance to do SO. We endorse the draft resolution proposed by the Philippines, and  commend it to this Conference. Thank you.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Papua New Guinea for this important contribution. 1 now cal1 on  Her EXcellency, MS Shulamit Aloni, Minister of Communication, Science and the Arts and head of the delegation  of Israel.
20.1 MS ALONI (Israel):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, heads of delegations  and permanent representatives to UNESCO, 1 would like to join with the previous speakers in congratulating  you, Mr President, on your election to this high office.
20.2 Distinguished participants, we entered the nineties full of hope. The totalitarian communist regimes  had fallen. The Berlin Wall had been broken down. The threat of nuclear weapons had disappeared, or SO we  believed. The world rejoiced! We believed that the billions that had been spent on the arms race and on  Star Wars would now be spent on saving Planet Eartb and its inhabitants from starvation and disease; we  thought that now we would be able to save our plants and our animals, and take tare of our water supply and  the ozone layer; but even as the jubilation was beginning, all sorts of negative phenomena started appearing  from their hiding places in various parts of the world - nationalism, tribal polarization, racism, forced  migration, and outbreaks of political and religious fundamentalism. The brutal war in the former Yugoslavia  and the bloody events in Somalia are just two examples of the pain and horror in the world today. It appears  that not everything cari be sorted out as quickly and as simply as we hoped in those days when the walls were  coming down.
20.3 Even SO, ladies and gentlemen, we cari still be optimistic. In spite of the diffculties, we have good  reasons to believe that we Will enter the twenty-first Century with a better world, a world of hope and progress.  Europe has united into a great community, which is a creative and influential democratic power. China is  reaching out to the West, and the Great Wall is no longer a barrier but a popular tourist attraction. The peaceful  end to racism and apartheid in South Africa and the moves towards democracy in that country and the peace  agreement between Israel and the PaIestinians are shining examples to the rest of the world of a new era for  mankind, an era of reconciliation and peace.
20.4 1 have corne from Israel, where 1 have been a long-time campaigner for human rights at large, for  women’s rights and minority rights, a long-time proponent of peace in the region and the recognition of the
176    rights of the Palestinians to self-determination and sovereignty. 1 would like to say that great and promising  things are happening now in the Middle East. Gne hundred years of bloodshed are coming to an end, and there  are great hopes for economic, scient&, social and cultural co-operation which Will influence the whole  Mediterranean region and even the entiie world: after all, we are all connected to, and dependent on, each  other.
20.5 As Minister of Communications, Science and the Arts, 1 say to you with confidence that peace Will  bring renaissance and enlightemnent to our region and Will bring us together with all nations of the world.  Today there are the tools, particularly in communications and the sciences, to make the whole community of  mankind partners in building a better world which Will be good to live in. The region from which 1 have corne  has been known for many years as a place of war and terror, but this region was the birthplace of an ancient  culture. The culture of the Bible and the morality of the prophets are the source of the three great monotheistic  religions. In the prayers of us all, for many generations, we have looked towards Jerusalem, the city of peace  and justice, Jemsalem, a symbol for the hope of mankind, for redemption. These hopes now have a chance to be  fulfilled; in fact the Govemment of Israel sees to it from the very beginning that the rights of a11 religions Will  be safeguarded and everyone Will be able to pray and worship at their holy places. Now, full of hope and full of  energy, this new and ancient country cari build its future witb its neighbours, a future of human and economic  creativity for all the peoples of the region, through dialogue and democratic processes. The vision of the  prophet Isaiah may be fulfilled before our eyes: ‘They shah tum their swords into ploughshares and their spears  into pmning-hooks . ..‘.
20.6 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that we have made our peace agreement it is time for action,  action for me individual, for every single person, man, woman and Child, and action for the community, for a11  the peoples of our region, in co-operation with all the peoples of the world. Alongside the economic  development that Will be brought about by market forces, and alongside the efficient use of our natural and our  human resources, there Will be great advances in the quality of life. Education, culture, science and technology  are the key words which Will enable modem man to march proudly into the twenty-fust Century.
20.7 1 once heard a proverb - 1 believe it cornes from China - that says ‘if a man has one penny he Will buy  bread SO that he is able to live, and if he has a second penny he Will buy a flower SO that his life has meaning’!  The economists and businessmen, the World Bank people, deal with the fust penny, with the bread. We are  here to deal with the second penny, the one that gives meaning to life, and to deal with culture in all its forms  and manifestations, with the inventive, creative powers of man. In the age of computers, video and multimedia,  now that telecommunication and comnnmication at large cari break through borders, we must revolutionize our  methods of education and our ways of acquiring knowledge, SO that everyone Will be able to differentiate  between right and wrong, Will be sovereign to decide what is important and interesting for them and Will be  able to get to all the sources of information. We cari only achieve this in a democratic society. Gnly a society  that recognizes the autonomy of the individual and educates him from an earlier age to be able to choose and to  respect plurality, with no indoctrination.
20.8 The role of the teacher should be to arouse curiosity, to offer alternatives, to exchange opinions, to  encourage questions and to teach how to look for the answers. A school is not just a classroom and a  playground. The museum, the theatre, the concert-hall, the post office, the bank, the factory, the river, me sea  and the open field cari a11 be schools. Culture is not just television, or the latest rock group visiting town, or the  latest book that has been given good reviews. For many generations men and women have lived, thought and  created. Archaeology and human history have offered us a wide specuum of the human spirit, and make ethnie  egocentric impulses look small.
20.9 We conducted a wonderful experiment in Israel. We put Jewish and Arab school students together and  taught them the history of our country from the time of ancient Canaan up to the present day, a period of more  than 4,000 years. We took them out on lïeld trips together to visit archaeological sites. They learnt that in one  country there have lived Canaanites and Hebrews, Philistines, Egyptians, Persians, Greeks and Romans,  Mamlukes and Muslims, Crusaders from Europe, and Turks, and they all left behind layer upon layer of  cultural heritage. No one cari say and no one cari claim ‘it is all mine’. The openness of these students grew, and  SO did their feelings of tolerance and of creativity. This system cari now be introduced to Israeli and Palestinian  students from the hitherto Occupied Territories. 1 believe mat bath peoples Will benefit from it.
20.10 The conservation of works of art from the past is a wellspring for the growth of the human spirit, and  for new creations. But this is true only if we regard past history without selectivity, not dictated by national or  tribal indoctrination.
20.11 Israel is a pluralistic society, a society made up of immigrants which is re-creating and re-establishing  its culture, and which is interested in the democratization of cultural activities. TO this end, we have established  an organization which is subsidized by public funds and whose function is to bring to all parts of the country,  including the most remote places, and for people of all ages, the very best of contemporary art produced in  Israel or brought to us from abroad, in theatre, music, dance, cinema, the visual arts and literature; it is art for  all and for evelyone, everywhere. This sort of framework could be applied in other countries, particularly in  developing countries. We hope to host an international congress on this subject in the near future, and 1 hope  that UNESCO Will participate, SO that we cari study this system and its applicability to other countries; we Will  certainly be able to learn from each other for the greater benefit of us all.
20.12 Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world in which science and technology are developing at an  amazing rate. Nowadays, five years is an entire generation and in the fïeld of communications and computer%  even less time than that. This means that we must develop scient.& thinking in our children from the earliest  age. We must give them the tools to tope with the new and the constantly changing world rhey live in. In Israel  we prepared a programme called ‘Tomorrow’, and we are introducing methods that encourage scient& and  technological thinking into our education system from the very beginning, including the use of computers in  kindergarten. TO this end we have introduced in-school teacher training to get the staff ready for these changes,  and to help them break out of their old-fashioned and closed ways of thinking. Last year we held an  international congress with UNESCO on this subject, and more than 60 countries sent delegations. We had  fruitful discussions on new methods which enabled us to break through to tomorrow’s world with wisdom and  understanding. We are now preparing a second congress on the same subject in the coming year.
20.13 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 am by profession a teacher and a lawyer, and as such 1 want to say that there  are no weak pupils who cari’‘’ learn, there are only weak socio-economic environments that do not have the tools  and means to promote good teaching. A democratic society, that believes in man and in his freedom and in his  right to be master of his own destiny, must be mutually supportive. It must invest considerable resources in  helping the economically and socially underprivileged, to narrow the gaps, to prevent want, discrimination and  revolt. Excellence in our eyes must be the ability to get each Child to utilize his own special talents to the best of  his ability.
20.14 Recognizing that every man was created in the image of God, recognizing that we are all descended  from Adam and Eve, and therefore that no man cari claim more important ancestors than his neighbours,  recognizing that every man, woman and Child enjoys the same equal rights, has the right to benefît from  progress and knowledge, and has the right to enjoy a meaningful life, it is our duty to make the greatest  possible efforts to protect our planet SO that we cari live, and to protect our democratic way of life SO that we cari  live honourably and fmitfully.
20.15 This great Organization of ours has it in its power to make an important contribution to the progress of  mankind towards an age of well-being and enlightenment. We are prepared to do our part, and we Will be  happy, Mr President, to co-operate with this Organization, and with the whole world community, SO that all of  us cari enter the twenty-first century in peace, better educated, safer and more caring.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Israel for this important contribution. 1 now cal1 on Mr Barri Jones,  head of the delegation of Australia.
22.1 Mr JONES (Australia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, 1 begin by  congratulating you, Mr President, on your election as President of the twenty-seventh session of the General  Conference. You made a very distinguished contribution as Chairman of the Programme and External  Relations Commission of the Executive Board and you Will make an exemplary Chairman of this large  assembly. Tuhunina! It would be reasonable too, to anticipate the re-election of Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza  for a second term as Director-General - the first with a mandate of his own. We look forward to further work  with him on the reform agenda, which Australia is eager to promote.
22.2 1 want to clarify Australia’s position on a number of issues, the first of which is human rights.  Australia is a strong advocate of human rights issues, a position which is not always popular, even here in
6  UNESCO. Sometimes the words ‘human rights’, ‘freedom’ and ‘democracy’ are hurled around at our meetings  but we lack a common agreed meaning. Since 1989, the cause of democracy and the prospect of free elections  in countries which had no tradition of free elections have been strengthened, but the democratic revolution is  far from over - indeed, it has barely begun - and much more needs to be done. UNESCO’s mandate of  education, science and culture, to which we must add ‘information’, is central in the development of tolerant,  skilled, plurabstic societies with a democratic political base. Al1 defmitions of ‘human rights’ converge to some  degree - but the emphasis diifers from one country to another. Some define human rights in exclusively  economic terms - a collective emphasis on economic security and the right to be fed, rather than the emphasis  on individuaI freedom, the right of free speech and of free association. But the terms are not mutually exclusive  and, as we develop our ‘culture of peace’ within UNESCO, we ought to be developing a ‘culture of politics’ in  which we attempt to create a common vocabulary for international discourse. We reject the false antithesis that  nations face the human rights choice between economic security or political freedom, that they cari’‘’ have both.  The Ausualian view - and 1 am sure the Canadian view, Madam Chairperson - is that nations cari have bath,  must have bath - indeed that they are inextricably linked. We are ail members of nations, of communities, of  language groups, of regions, of families, of tribes: but whatever our social organizations, our religions, our  belief systems, our maleness or femaleness, we have in common our essential humanness.
22.3 Saying ‘yes’ to human rights means saying ‘no’ to torture, to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, to cruel  and inhuman punishments, to denial of freedom of speech, religion, association and conscience, to  discrimination against women and children, to denial of education or information, to suppression of language.  And of course, we also say ‘no’ to poverty, to starvation, to slavery, to disease, to unemployment, to war,  destruction, homelessness and physical attack, to racial discrimination. And we argue that personal freedom  and collective security are part of a unity, different faces of the same prism.
22.4 UNESCO should be pursuing every opportunity to promote human dignity and human capacity.
22.5 The issue of Salman Rushdie is a very sensitive one - but it is an important test case about UNESCO’s  tore mandate and about pluralism: if you expect me to recognize your rights to speak and Write, then you ought  to respect my rights to do the same. As Voltaire put it, memorably, ‘1 disagree with what you say, but 1 Will give  my life to defend your right to say it’. UNESCO should initiate a dialogue on this troubling case in an attempt  to find common ground between the European position and that of the Islamic World. UNESCO cannot  confront; it should not ignore; but it cari reconcile - and 1 know that the Director-General has trïken courageous  initiatives on this subject.
22.6 Now, a Word on universality: Australia, a foundation member of UNESCO since November 1946, is  deeply committed to the principle of universal membership and we have worked hard, with Japan and some  other nations, to ensure the return of the United States and the United Kingdom, a process in which 1 have  taken an active role. We would welcome the return of Singapore as well and - after the establishment of  democratic State structures - South Africa and Palestine. We welcome the election of the new members,  especially the new nations from the Pacifie region, the Solomon Islands and Niue, and look forward to their  contributions here.
22.7 The General Conference, held every two years, is a vital part of UNESCO because it reminds us of the  needs of people chat UNESCO exists to service: people we rarely see in the period between Conferences. Paris,  as the world capital of culture, is a very seductive place. It is easy to understand the view that ‘Paris is paradise’,  and to understand why SO many people committed to UNESCO have spent SO many years, decades in some  cases, in and around the Organization. But the seduction must be resisted - and we emphasize the need to make  decisions which reflect and assist the outside world. TO use the language of our host city for a moment,  l’UNESCO n’est pas un ‘club’, c’est-à-dire, ce n’est pas une socit?té; c’est un instrument, un mode d’emploi.
22.8 We often hear reference to the intellectual and ethical mission of UNESCO. Like Japan, and others,  Australia wants to strengthen that mission by sharpening its function. Under the new constitutional  arrangements, the Executive Board Will represent nations, not individuaIs nominated by nations. However, in  practice, this mises the troubling possibility that decisions Will in fact increasingly represent a Paris-based  perspective: an ‘insider’s point of view’. Hence the importance of this General Conference as a necessary  corrective. The ad hoc Forum of Reflection in its recent report Education without frontiers’ - proposed an  exciting concept with which Australia has had a great deal of experience, especiahy in ‘distance’ education,  ‘open’ education and in the development of a ‘multicultural’ society, perhaps in our case the world’s most  successful.
22.9 We recall the Director-General% chastening satistics in his opening statement to the Conference: on  the number of children denied a place in a school(l30 million); on the number of children suffering disabilities
(100 million); and on the number who remain illiterate throughout their lives (940 million). The statistics  which the Director-General quoted reinforce the need for UNESCO to redouble its efforts in the field of  education.
22.10 Education is the real bedrock of UNESCO’s programmes and purposes. 1 am referring not just to  education as a programme in its own right, but as the most effective and effïcient means of delivering  programmes in other areas, whether science, culture or communication. We applaud the concept of ‘education  without frontiers’ but two important qualifications need to be made. Firstly, entrenched, big frontiers are falling  ail over the world, with the ending of the Cold WZU, prospects for peace in South Africa and the Middle East,  but small, lethal frontiers are rising too with the revival of ethnie hatreds and religious intolerance. We should  go further, proposing access to information without frontiers and that values should transcend frontiers too.  Secondly, the technological revolution in communication and information gives smaI1 countries an opportunity  to participate in Marshall McLuhan’s ‘global village’ - but there is a price to be paid: the threat to local cultural  autonomy, and the survival of local languages and local traditions.
22.11 This gives UNESCO a vital role: that of attempting to reconcile the universal and the particular - to  promote tolerance, understanding, pluralism, that is, values without frontiers, while maintaining respect for  local traditions, crafts, language and culture. It is easy to say: hard to do - and in recent weeks and months we  have had daily examples of peoples with apparent community of interest who simply cannot live together. As  Pascal put it in his Perdes: ‘What suange justice bounded by a river! Truth on one side of the Pyrenees, errer  on the other’. Many of the world’s problems are cultural, rather than political or economic in the narrow sense.
1 should at this point add that Australia is extremely pleased to have won the Marshall McLuhan Teleglobe  Award, given generously by Canada. The indigenous media industry has expanded rapidly in Australia since  the 1980s. Indigenous people have been increasingly using the electronic media to reclaim and regenerate their  culture and languages, with the result that there are now over 150 indigenous media associations broadcasting  on over 100 radio stations. In addition, indigenous broadcasts are producing programmes for community video  in urban, rural and remote areas of AustraIia. MS Freda Glynn and Mr Philip Batty provided the inspiration for  many of the present generation of indigenous broadcasters with their pioneering work in indigenous radio and  television in Central Australia, and today the Central Australian AboriginaI Media Association is the largest  indigenous media association in the world. CAAMA’s commitment to indigenous cultural content in languages  is a source of empowerment for indigenous Australians. This work is now being continued by other indigenous  media associations.
22.12 While on this theme, 1 want to clarify Australia’s position on the ‘Management of Social  Transformations’ (MOST) programme. Let me make it explicit: Australia supports the programme but has  argued for a high degree of intellectual rigour and intellectual accountability; and we have insisted that we  concentrate on areas which may lead to practical, useful outcomes. This is an area in which 1 should declare an  interest because 1 have written very extensively on the subject. The MOST programme should be quite explicit  in its priorities and Australia has a good deal of expertise in the area. 1 am sorry to have to emphasize the point,  but it is necessary to distinguish between constructive criticism and opposition.
22.13 Mr President, 1 believe very fïrmly in sticking rigidly to time, SO 1 shall simply conclude by saying that  we shall be circulating copies of Australia’s reform proposals, our reform agenda, and we believe that some  consideration should be given to the issues raised at this session and, of course, in the ensuing Executive Board.  SO we wish every success to incoming members of the Board, to you Mr President, Mr Director-General, and  retiring Madam Chairperson; and we believe that the Organization bas great prospects for the next two years  and the immediate future. Thank you very much.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation froc the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Australia for this important contribution. I now cal1 on  Mr Alexander Chikvaidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs and head of the delegation of Georgia.
24.1 Mr CHIKVAIDZE (Georgia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, aIlow me to carry out the  honourable and pleasant mission of conveying to you sincere greetings and wishes for successtil work from  Mr Shevardnadze, Chairman of the Parl&ent and Head of State of the Republic of Georgia. 1 would also like
6  to thank Director-General Mr Federico Mayor for his letter and support to my country with regard to the latest  tragic developments in our country, at what is a crucial time for us.
24.2 Founded in 1945, at the beginning of the post-war period, the United Nations Educational, Scient&  and Cultural Organization, due to its constructive and humane activity, has gained a well-deserved authority as  a symbol of progress, freedom and happiness. And 1 believe that UNESCO, under the leadership of its Director-  General Mr Federico Mayor, Will successfully pursue its noble mission.
24.3 Last year was a very special one for my country and people. 1 believe it heralded a new era in the  history of Georgia, which, recognized by the world community, became a fully-fledged member of the United  Nations and of UNESCO.
24.4 Following this event, the Georgian National Commission for UNESCO was established. Since then,  enjoying comprehensive assistance and support from the Organization, Georgia has taken an active part in its  programme activities.
24.5 In the realization that a certain lack of information on Georgia, its history, culture, science and  education exists in the world, Days of Georgian Cultures were organized at UNESCO Headquarters in  July 1993. 1 would like to thank the UNESCO Secretariat staff for their understanding, assistance and  contribution to this colourful and very successful festival of my people, which was initiated by Mr Federico  Mayor. The general public, as well as Permanent Delegates of the Member States and the UNESCO Secretariat,  visited the festival, but Mr Shevardnadze was unable to attend: at that time he was in the besieged City of  Sukhumi which, after constant shelling, has eventually fallen into the hands of aggressive separatists for ravage  ‘and plunder.
24.6 The second most important fact in the life of the Georgian National Commission for UNESCO is the  initiative to include our ancient monuments in the treasury of the world heritage. Experts from the UNESCO  World Heritage Centre visited Georgia last summer. Their stay, unfortunately, was traumatized by tragic  developments: the people of Georgia were compelled to defend the territorial integrity of their State from  separatists <and their reactionary supporters - a struggle which lias not yet been finished.
24.7 However, despite tbis complicated situation, our National Commission has done its best to render the  efforts of the UNESCO leadership and its experts effective. At the end of this year, supported by the initiative of  the experts, Georgia is to submit for consideration three historical monuments from our immense cultural  inheritance.
24.8 UNESCO has greatly contributed to the process of transformation of our complicated, contradictory  and explosive world. The shaping of the new world order is not yet complete. After the Cold War, the world is  indeed getting warmer, and not only because of the greenhouse effect: the hotbeds of tensions and conflict  zones are mushrooming.
24.9 1 have already mentioned how a remarkable year made it possible for us to join the United Nations and  UNESCO last year. This year has turned out to be no less remarkable, albeit for absolutely different and  diametrically opposite reasons. Only 12 months have passed since my last address to you, yet today Georgia  faces an even greater challenge - loss of its territorial integrity and of its millennium-old culture as the brutal  force of separatism, which has become the plague of our Century, together with the atrocities and destruction of  war, seeks to pluck out the very roots of Georgian ethnicity.
24.10 1 believe you a11 are well aware that 1 am talking about the Abkhazian region, where Georgian culture  embodied a fine blend of pagan, ancient Greek, and Christian civilizations. This land of natural beauty now has  an abominable scenery - abandoned and burnt villages, ravaged cities (suffice it to mention the capital,  Sukhumi), destroyed houses, schools and hospitals. Ethnie cleansing unleashed by the Abkhaz separatists, cruel  treatment and massacre of civilians, the downing of civil& aircraft and massive terrorist acts have created  more than 200,000 displaced persons and refugees.
24.11 The deeds of the Abkhaz separatist leadership are nothing but a violent infringement of human rights  and a crime against humanity which deserves not only public condemnation but triaI in accordance with the  standards of international law.
24.12 1 do not wish those who sit in this audience to think that 1 am politicizing my address in this forum of  UNESCO - a primarily cultural organization. 1 only want to emphasize that, in my country, cultural values are
181    being destroyed, and that this may happen elsewhere in the world, as it has happened in former Yugoslavia.  Such influential international organizations as UNESCO should mise their voice against the vandalism  occurring in many parts of the world.
24.13 1 have raised the Abkhaz issue here because Georgian churches and cemeteries, old relies and  monuments have been profaned and demolished. Such pillars of Georgian science as the Subtropical Institute  and Botanical Gardens are being destroyed, including a unique simian arboretum. Georgians have always been  proud of their culture - among the 14 existing original alphabets one is Georgian - and they Will not  countenance the loss of their cultural heritage.
24.14 Separatism, as 1 bave said, has become a plague of our Century. Perhaps the time has corne to mise the  question of minorities’ responsibilities towards the countries of their residence, as well as their rights to  political, economic and cultural development. If we do not do SO now, the undermining of all that civilized  society, democracy, progress, and UNESCO stand for Will begin.
24.15 Ladies and gentlemen, due to the extremely diffïcult and complex situation in my country, it is very  hard for us to accomplish all the functions and responsibilities of a UNESCO Member State. However the  Organization’s programmes and projects, as well as our own active participation in them, have never lost their  important value for us. Georgia lias presented 12 projects for 1994-1995 within the framework of the  Participation Programme. They include projects on renewable energy sources, the reconstruction of the  education system, physical education and sport, the UNESCO chairs, and a project under the Man and the  Biosphere programme. These projects provide for the training of speciabsts, the improvement of the technical  basis, and the organization of regional and interregional seminars, symposia and conferences.
24.16 In June 1992, the 11 Black Sea basin countries laid down the principles of co-operation for a regional  organization. Following this historic event, the Georgian Commission applied for membership of the  Intergovemmental Oceanographic Commission and offered to work on the project vital for Georgia on  ‘Environmental management and protection of the Black Sea’. We hope that there Will be a favourable response
10 our request.
24.17 We would also appreciate your support for the decision by the Meeting of National Co-ordinators of  the Regional Information Network of South and Central Asia on including Georgia in this project.
24.18 We attach the utmost importance to co-operation between National Commissions for UNESCO. In this  regard, we would ask you to support the joint German-Georgian initiative to organize, within the framework of  the Participation Programme, two regional seminars, on the UNESCO Associated Schools and on biosphere  reserves in Tbilisi.
24.19 Only a short time has passed since we became a member of UNESCO. Nevertheless, we have already  noticed and felt the attention and consideration of the UNESCO Secretariat and its Director-General with  regard to the problems of our country. We are well aware of Mr Mayor’s personal contribution to UNESCO’s  achievements, and we have already expressed our support for his re-election as Director-General. From this  high podium, 1 again wish to state that Georgia fully endorses his candidacy and calls upon you to join us.
24.20 In closing, ladies and gentlemen, allow me once more, to wish you a fruitful session and a continuous  success in a11 your good endeavours. Thank you.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Georgia for this important speech. 1 now call on Mr Nguyen Khanh,  Vice-Prime Minister and head of the delegation of Viet Nam.
26.1 M. NGUYEN KHANH (Viet Nam) :  Monsieur le President de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, qu’il me soit permis tout d’abord de vous feliciter,  Monsieur le Président, pour votre élection unanime au plus haut poste de la vingt-septième session de la
182    Conférence générale. Je suis convaincu que, sous votre direction, notre Conférence générale connaîtra un plein  succès.
26.2 Monsieur le Président, au seuil du troisième millenaire, il nous faut nous féliciter des efforts  accomplis en faveur de la paix et du désarmement. Nous devons agir par les moyens de la coopération dans les  domaines de la culture, de l’éducation, de la science et de la communication pour renforcer ce mouvement et  faciliter l’emergence d’un monde de paix, de comprehension mutuelle en vue dune société plus juste, plus  équitable. Le gouvernement vietnamien s’engage à prendre part à cette tâche. Sur cette tribune, encore une  fois, au nom de mon gouvernement, je voudrais réiterer la volonte du Viet Nam d’être l’ami de tous les pays,  proches et lointains. Nous avons fait et nous ferons tout notre possible pour suivre cette direction. L’oeuvre de  renouveau du Viet Nam a enregistré des resultats très prometteurs, ce qui permet a notre pays de s’intégrer plus  profondément dans la communauté internationale.
26.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, le monde où nous vivons actuellement est marque par un grand nombre de  mutations, de complexités, de defis mais est en même temps riche de chances. Bien des problèmes communs  qui ont été posés demandent des solutions gobales. Les organisations internationales tiennent une place  primordiale dans cette tâche. Ainsi, le rôle de l’UNESCO s’avère plus que jamais important. Je suis très  heureux de constater que, ces dernières années, l’UNESCO a contribué honorablement à la solution des  problèmes importants de l’humanite. Pour notre part, depuis toujours, nous avons oeuvre de tout coeur pour  apporter une contribution a la cause commune de l’UNESCO. Le Viet Nam a fait de son mieux pour participer  aux diverses activités de l’UNESCO au niveau regional aussi bien qu’international. La récente visite au Viet  Nam de M. le Directeur général Federico Mayor a marque un nouveau pas dans les relations de coopération  entre l’UNESCO et le Viet Nam. L’aide-mémoire signé entre l’UNESCO et le Viet Nam, à l’issue de cette  visite, témoigne de la volonté et de l’engagement du Viet Nam et de l’UNESCO dans la cooperation  multilatérale et le Viet Nam considère toujours l’UNESCO comme un partenaire fiable.
26.4 Mesdames, Messieurs, en ce qui concerne le Programme et budget pour 1994-1995, je me permets,  tout d’abord, de féliciter chaleureusement le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO pour la qualité des documents élaborés  en coopération étroite avec le Conseil executif. Ce qui frappe en premier, c’est la concision et la clarté de la  presentation et du contenu du document “Projet de programme et de budget pour 1994-1995 (27 C/5)” et c’est  l’augmentation considérable des fonds alloués au Programme de participation, une preuve du renforcement  direct et immédiat de la présence de l’UNESCO auprès des Etats membres.
26.5 Les grandes orientations des champs majeurs de programme sont directement au coeur des  préoccupations des peuples. Les activités prévues dans le domaine de l’éducation tiennent une place  prepondérante, ce qui permet aux pays en développement de se munir dune base, d’un fondement solide, pour  sortir de la pauvreté, de l’ignorance. Nous sommes conscients qu’à l’époque actuelle les connaissances  scientiiiques et technologiques enregistrent des progrès prodigieux et que l’éducation constitue la clé du  développement. Mon pays attache une importance particulière à l’éducation. C’est ainsi que le Viet Nam  appuie les actions prévues au champ majeur de programme “L’éducation et l’avenir”. A côté de la lutte pour  eliminer l’analphabétisme, l’éducation de base pour tous et l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle devront constituer  une haute priorite dans la politique nationale de l’éducation. Nous approuvons entièrement les declarations et  recommandations des Conferences de Jomtien et MINEDAP VI et nous avons etabli à cet égard un plan  d’action national. Les premiers bilans de l’exécution du plan laissent apparaître des résultats encourageants. Je  saisis cette occasion pour remercier sincerement le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO pour avoir aidé le Viet Nam a  élaborer bien des projets en matière d’éducation, en particulier le projet “Analyse sectorielle de l’éducation au  Viet Nam”. Je tiens à remercier également le Bureau regional de Bangkok qui nous a rendu des services très  efficaces dans l’exécution des projets nationaux et régionaux.
26.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, dans le domaine de la culture, mon pays réaffirme son attachement aux  objectifs de la Décennie mondiale du developpement culturel, en ce qui concerne tout particulierement le  thème : culture et développement. La prise de conscience de la dimension culturelle du développement, qui est  un progrès considérable de ces dernières années, a marque un nouveau pas dans la conception du  developpement de la part des décideurs et des planificateurs, Le developpement économique et la croissance  des biens matériels doivent se baser sur le patrimoine culturel, les valeurs propres, la créativité et le génie de  chaque peuple. Le Comité national vietnamien pour la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel a  formulé un plan d’action national pour la Décennie et en avril de cette année, nous avons OrganisC, SOUS le patronage de l’UNESCO, un stminaire régional sur les méthodes d’intégration des facteurs culturels dans les  projets et la planification du développement.
26.7 Je suis très heureux de constater que le Projet de programme et de budget a inclus la Campagne  internationale de restauration et de conservation des monuments de Hue au Viet Nam parmi les priorités pour  les deux années à venir. Hue, dernière capitale impériale du Viet Nam, mérite d’être restaurCe. Notre  gouvernement sera très reconnaissant aux gouvernements et à tous ceux qui voudraient bien apporter leur aide  pour sauvegarder un patrimoine culturel de valeur du Viet Nam, en même temps que de l’humanite.
26.8 Notre délegation appuie globalement les activites du champ majeur de programme II “La science pour  le progrès et l’environnement” et est particulièrement sensible au programme de coordination et de coopération  pour le suivi de la Conference des Nations Unies sur l’environnement et le developpement, a laquelle j’ai  participe. Dans ce contexte, il est souhaitable de fonder un mécanisme approprie en vue de la mise en oeuvre  des recommandations de la Conference et d’autre part, de renforcer le systeme des reseaux existants des  programmes intergouvernementaux.
26.9 Nous appuyons le programme IV.2 “Développement de la communication”, qui englobe les activites  de formation et de perfectionnement du personnel ainsi que le développement des infrastructures de  communication. Quant au Programme intergouvernemental d’informatique, nous constatons qu’il est plus ou  moins éclipse en comparaison avec d’autres programmes. Or, la réalité montre que le developpement de  l’informatique constitue un besoin grandissant des pays en developpement. Notre gouvernement attache  Cgalement une importance particulière au developpement de l’informatique. C’est la raison pour laquelle nous  avons signé un accord avec l’UNESCO tendant a mettre à la disposition de cette dernière les facilites de  l’Institut de l’informatique du Viet Nam, afin de fonder l’Institut régional de l’UNESCO pour la technologie de  l’information. L’établissement de cet Institut permettra un renforcement des reseaux régionaux en matière  d’informatique.
26.10 En ce qui concerne les sciences sociales et humaines, nous sommes particulièrement sensibles à l’idee  de promouvoir “une culture de paix”. La culture de paix devrait se baser sur le respect réciproque, la  comprehension mutuelle et surtout l’esprit de coopération. L’UNBSCO, qui a vocation de promouvoir la  cooperation intellectuelle, aura pour tache de concretiser le contenu de la culture de paix et de la faire  repandre partout a travers le monde. Enfin, il incombe a notre Organisation de mener des études prospectives  et de réflechir sur la problématique mondiale pour mieux aborder le XXIe siècle.
26.11 Monsieur le President, pour terminer, je voudrais formuler mes meilleurs voeux de succès a notre  Conférence gCnérale dans l’accomplissement de sa lourde tâche, afin que notre Organisation puisse jouer  pleinement son rôle dans la paix mondiale au service de la coopération, de la confiance reciproque et du  progrès de la civilisation humaine. Merci de votre attention.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation fmm the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Viet Nam for this important speech. 1 now cal1 on His ExcelIency,  Dr Sang Seek Park, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO and head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea.
28.1 Mr PARK (Republic of Korea):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates and observers, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, 1 should like to  congratulate you, Mr Sayyad, on your election to the presidency of the twenty-seventh session of the General  Conference. 1 am confident that we shah sec positive results under your leadership. 1 also wish to offer special  compliments to the Director-General for his achievements in guiding UNESCO towards a new world order in  the post-Cold War era, and 1 should like to join the previous speakers in welcomlng new Member States to  UNESCO.
28.2 Mr President, we are living in an era of ever-mounting problems and conflicts: poverty, a degraded  environment, the abuse of natural resources, and escalating collective violence, to mention but a few. The  international political situation surrounding UNESCO and Member States is fragile attd unpredictable. Despite  tbe many reasons for pessimism, however, 1 am rather optimistic and hopeful. Dialogues for peace are slowly  giving rise to reconciliation, as in the Middle East. UNESCO has successfulIy introduced a ‘culture of peace’ to  promote human rights and tolerance. It surely was a historic landmark when we recognized the problems of the
184    environment and development and adopted the concept of ‘sustainable development’ as a global strategy to save  the Earth.
28.3 The newly elected Govemment of Korea has adopted a new direction in foreign policy that is more  global, diverse, multi-dimensional, future-oriented, and is based in part on strong regional co-operation.  Without a doubt, conflicts today are often complex ones that go beyond national borders. Through this new  approach, my country seeks to strengthen its co-operative relationship with the United Nations, UNESCO and  other Member States.
28.4 We endorse UNESCO’s ethical mission, and fully support the Director-General’s efforts to strengthen  UNESCO’s role in international intellectnal co-operation and its relations with Member States, their National  Commissions and non-govemmental organizations. By the same token, we fully endorse the main goals of  UNESCO for the next biennium, an integrated approach to development and the construction of a culture of  peace, which are also in line with those of other United Nations bodies.
28.5 As regards preliminary considerations on the fourth Medium-Term Plan beginning in 1996,I think we  need a philosophical base on which a framework for future programmes cari be built. 1 believe our key idea  should be ‘human sustainable development’. In this respect, 1 wish to commend UNESCO’s efforts in  establishing two high-powered commissions: the World Commission on Culture and Development and the  International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century. Certainly, the results of the meetings of  world intellectuals should yield insight into the future of UNESCO. It is important, too, that we take into  account the world system of open education programme proposed by the ad hoc Forum of Reflection in  preparing the next Medium-Tenn Plan.
28.6 Mr President, allow me now to comment on the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium.  First of all, the Republic of Korea applauds the Director-General’s focus on five major programme areas which  represent UNESCO’s areas of competence. This focus emphasizes priority programmes while still allowing us  to maintain the tore programmes.
28.7 Regarding ‘Education and the future’, 1 believe that education is basically future-oriented and should be  geared towards the preparation of the next generation. Education should foster in Young people creativity and  the Will to achieve their hopes and dreams. It should be human-centred education which is bath humane and  moral. As the Republic of Korea recognizes the importance of international education in preparing Young  people for the coming twenty-first Century, we would like to suggest that more practical programmes focused on  the humanistic, cultural and international dimensions of education be included within the programme of  ‘Education for the twenty-fnst century’. My country also believes that the Recommendations and Declaration on  Education adopted at the sixth Conference of Education Ministers in Asia and the Pacifie in Kuala Lumpur  should also be properly accommodated into overall education programmes, stressing the importance of values,  ethics and culture in education.
28.8 As for ‘Science for progress and the environment’, we believe that the highest priority should be to  execute the recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development as the  principal course of action. Accordingly, continuing support should be given to the four intergovemmental  programmes for the environment, namely IOC, IHP, MAB and IGCP. We would very much like to sec the  MAB programme strengthened at bath international and regional levels, as this Will have great impact on  enviromnental awareness.
28.9 As for the Culture programme, my delegation strongly endorses the plan of the World Commission on  Culture and Development. 1 am certain that this Commission Will shed new light on the promotion of research  and activities in this area. As to the World Decade for Cultural Development, my country places great priority  on the mid-term evaluation of the Decade projects.
28.10 Regarding the protection of the cultural heritage, my delegation would like to remind all of you that  UNESCO adopted the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export, and  Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property in 1970. In order to promote wider application of this Convention  and help Member States comply with it, my country would like to suggest that the Intergovemmental  Committee for Promoting the Retum of Cultural Property take stronger initiatives.
28.11 We welcome the promotion of books and reading programmes. Having designated 1993 as the Year of  the Book in Korea, we Will host an international symposium on the prospects for the book in the age of the
185    multimedia in Seoul in November. We are confident that the symposium, assisted by UNESCO’s example, Will  renew the importance attached to books and reading.
28.12 With respect to the Communication programme, which addresses the vital importance of  communication technology in developing countries, my country Will continue to award fellowships to personnel  from developing countries under the International Programme for the Development of Communication. 1 am  happy to inform you that in 1993 my govemment contributed $200,000 for the promotion of informatics in  developing nations. Since 1990 the Republic of Korea has contributed a total of $800,000.
28.13 1 also cal1 attention to the programme on ‘Social and hmnan sciences’ which resulted from the merging  of three previous major programme areas. We find particularly significant the establishment of the  intergovemmental programme for social sciences and would like to participate in the planning stages of the  International Social Science Research Programme. An international and inter-agency forum on culture and  development was organized last month in Seoul by UNESCO and Kyungnam University. It was a valuable  opportunity to elucidate the relationship between culture and development and to identify the role of culture in  these times of rapid global change.
28.14 1 also welcome the establishment of a consultative committee on women, to be chaired by the Director-  General, which Will encourage women’s organizations in Member States. UNESCO should assume a leading  role in improving the status of women. It should make substantial provision for the expansion of programmes  for women and it should strengthen co-operation with women’s organizations in Member States. This Will  undoubtedly prove to be a major contribution to the Fourth World Conference on Women to be held in Beijing  in 1995.
28.15 As for youth, priority should be given to the establishment of the INFOYOUTH network and to  widening access to it in Member States. The Korea UNESCO Youth Centre, a part of the Korean National  Commission for UNESCO, covers all aspects of youth activities in Korea. In order to foster the dissemination  and exchange of information on youth issues, our youth centre Will further strengthen its co-operation with  UNESCO. Eventually, we are to become a regional focal point of 1NFOYOUT.H.
28.16 Lastly, my delegation would like to express deep gratitude to UNESCO for the recommendation made  at the last session of the Executive Board that the 600th anniversary of the founding of Seoul as the capital City  of the Republic of Korea be included as one of the celebrations associated with UNESCO. We sincerely hope  that UNESCO Will lend its expertise to our celebration programme.
28.17 In conclusion, 1 should like to note that UNESCO has greatly contributed to the development of  Member nations, and express my hope that UNESCO Will continue to play an active role in every respect.  Thank you very much.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea for this important intervention. 1 now cal1 on  His Excellency, Mr Ritzen, Minister of Education and Science and head of the delegation of the Netherlands.
30.1 Mr RITZEN (Netherlands):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, in the ftrst place 1 would like to address you, Mr Mayor. 1 would like to express my esteem for the  reform process which started six years ago under your able leadership. 1 hope, and 1 am confident, that you Will  be able to continue your policy of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of UNESCO during a second term.  The Netherlands fully supports this policy.
30.2 Since UNESCO is part of the United Nations system, activities undertaken by UNESCO cannot be  considered separately from the activities of other members of the United Nations family, as we like to cal1 it.  The key Word in this regard has to be CO-ordination. Appropriate CO-ordination not only prevents duplication,  but cari also lead to synergy in cases where activities of different component parts are complementary. At this  point 1 would like to remind you of the ongoing discussion in the United Nations on reforms of the  intergovemmental machinery in the economic and social sectors. These reforms should enhance CO-ordination
6  and should lead to clearer policy guidance for United Nations programmes and funds. Indirectly, these reforms  Will also have to be reflected in Specialized Agencies like UNESCO.
30.3 Before tackling the main theme of my address, namely the moral role of education, 1 should first like  to say a few words about a number of UNESCO’s activities and the Netherlands’ contribution to and interest in  them. At this point, 1 wonld draw your attention to the fact that we have among us today a representative of the  Young people of the Netherlands, MS Suzette Dumfries. May 1 take this opportunity to say how important we,  the Dutch Government, feel it is that the voice of Young people should also be heard within UNESCO. We  should talk about Young people wirh Young people themselves, involving them as much as possible in  discussions.
30.4 International dialogue is playing an increasing role in the development of our education systems and it  is thus vital that statistics should be available. UNESCO plays an essential part not only in collecting and  disseminating statistics, but also in revising the criteria for the classification of data on education, criteria  which date back to 1975. 1 refer to ISCED, the International Standard Classification of Education. 1 must  express my satisfaction at the fact that UNESCO is now seriously engaged in such a review.
30.5 In some fields of academic research, too - the researchers themselves are in the best position to say  which - broad international networks are called for. Take the worldwide network that has been set up for  languages threatened with extinction. 1 should like to express my esteem for the encouragement UNESCO has  given to efforts to record the linguistic characteristics of these languages. The Netherlands has been asked to  act as network co-ordinator of efforts relating to the Central and Southem American languages under threat.
30.6 1 should also mention the substantial contribution made by the Netherlands to the World Commission  on Culture and Development and would like very much to endorse the view of its President, Mr Perez de  Cuellar, that this Commission must produce practical, realistic plans of action. 1 really do hope that other  countries also in various continents are prepared to contribute to the excellent work of this Commission.
30.7 The Netherlands is currently considering the possibility of proposing in the next two years the  establishment of a UNESCO centre for natural disaster reduction as related to environment and development.  My govemment may be ready to contribute substantially, in conjunction with other countries, to such an  undertaking.
30.8 My earlier reference to cultural development brings me to my main theme, namely the moral role of  education. As you know, the Delors Commission is to look into the role that education should play in the next  Century. 1 should therefore like to begin with some observations on what is called the ‘moral crisis’ which  Mr Delors discussed in a speech he made in October 1992. His analysis in my view struck at the very tore of  the problem. At this time, the West is engaged in reassessing the role played by values and standards, in both  education and society as a whole. Over the past 20 or 30 years, we have gradually rid ourselves of unbending,  intolerant moral attitudes - a process that 1 think we have generally welcomed. Now we enter into a new stage.  How to reconcile individualization with cohesion in our societies? How to cernent individuals into common  pursuits, into solidarity? Shared values and standards are essential if society is to function properly. Yet in a  democratic society they cannot be imposed by legislation or ministerial decree.
30.9 Schools have an important role to play, but have to decide on their own strategy and content.  Govemments cari require schools to account for the fact that they do work on normative pedagogy. Yet  governments cannot impose a specifïc kind of pedagogy.
30.10 The Netherlands is currently witnessing a lively debate on this matter. Mr Delors rightly said - and 1  quote - that ‘education cari and must contribute not only to the advancement of the individual, but also to the  emergence of common values . ..‘.
30.11 In my view, schools should exercise their moral responsibility in three ways. Firstly, they must help  children to understand what living in a democratic society means. Schools must therefore help children to  adopt the attitudes and acquire the skills needed to participate at a11 levels in a11 institutions of a democracy. 1  believe that it is the responsibility of government actively to bring schools to this point. Secondly - and of great  importance in the Netherlands where 70 per cent of schools are publicly paid but privately run - schools need to  establish their own identity and to express this identity in their day-to-day activities. They should be able to  compete on the basis of identity and of results. Thirdly, schools, as institutions, should reflect these moral  values, by moulding the relationships between teachers, pupils, parents and the community in such a way that
187    each contributes towards achieving the school’s moral aims and ideals. Each school must therefore set itself a  mission and decide what kind of school it wishes to be,
30.12 Schools cari,, however, only carry out their moral responsibilities by actively co-operating with parents  and the community. In its tum, society cannot simply hand over responsibility to the schools and leave it at  that. Fortunately, the challenge 1 have just described has been widely met by schools and society as a whole in  the Netherlands during the past few years. As Minister of Education, 1 actively encouraged the process in a  discussion document in which 1 called for joint action. It is not the task of governments to decide how schools  should teach morals, but it is their task to encourage schools to accept their responsibility to do SO.
30.13 1 recently instituted a national Platform comprising educationists and academics but also  representatives of the community, whose task Will be to encourage schools to seek new ways of defining their  moral responsibilities and to take action to bring these responsibilities to fmition. The Platform Will most  certainly not dictate to the schools: the latter Will bear full responsibility and Will not act in isolation but in co-  operation with parents and with their doors open all the time to the community.
30.14 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 have outlined the Dutch approach to moral education, to the role of  govemment. It is a subject that is demanding attention in many countries and 1 would therefore, cal1 on my  fellow ministers to exchange views on this matter. Such an exchange may also prove productive within the  UNESCO framework. Once the Delors Commission has published its proposals, a UNESCO platform might  possibly be instituted to flesh them out. Thank you very much.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Netherlands for this important speech. 1 now cal1 on  Her Excellency, MS Gennet Zewdie, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Ethiopia.
32.1 MS ZEWDIE (Ethiopia):  Mr President, distinguished representatives of Member States, Mr Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the Ethiopian delegation and my own behalf, 1 would like to congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election to the presidency of the twenty-seventh session of UNESCO’s General  Conference. 1 earnestly wish you and the bureau success in your tasks. 1 would also like to congratulate  Mr Federico Mayor on the efficient organization of this Conference, for the clear presentation of the activities  of the Organization, and for the intellectual leadership he has provided over the last six years, during which the  Organization has seen useful new developments and innovations.
32.2 Mr President, 1 am delighted to welcome the newly admitted Member States on behalf of the  Transitional Government of Ethiopia and on my own behalf. Allow me to extend a special welcome to the State  of Eritrea as a member of UNESCO. Ethiopia and Eritrea have already taken steps towards a very close, lasting  relationship and meaningful co-operation.
32.3 1 would also like to take this opportunity to say, Mr President, a few things on the democratization  process Etbiopia has undertaken since the establishment of the Transitional Government a little over two years  ago. Local and regional elections have taken place to consolidate the democratic process, an independent  judiciary has started functioning and the rule of law lias been established to guarantee the human rights of the  Ethiopian people. In fact, Ethiopia has now accepted and signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  The rights of assembly, expression and peaceful opposition are being exercised. A constitution is being drafted  and multiparty elections are planned once the constitution is approved by the people. The reconstruction and  recovery programme we have launched to revive the war-ravaged infrastructure is already producing an  improvement in the economy.
32.4 Mr President, it is an arduous task to rehabilitate and reconstruct a country which had been  smouldering in a series of wars for almost three decades. It demands, inter dia, an unprecedented educational  and cultural revival and scient& and technological renewal. Hence, to bring about a new social leverage and a  change in the social fabtic, priority has been accorded to education, whose present budget has soared from
9.5 per cent to 13 per cent of the total govemment budget. In line with prevailing needs and priorities, the goals  and objectives of Ethiopian education had to be clearly redefined; a national education policy and strategy  which demanded the participation and reflected the needs and interests of the various sectors of society has
6  therefore been formulated. Accordingly, the administration of the education system is decentralized and  nationality languages as the medium of instruction at the primary level have been introduced; this of course  demanded the production and publication of teaching and supportive materials in different nationality  languages. Given the relationship between overall development and the provision of basic education for ail,  there are compelling and urgent social, economic, political and ethical reasons for developing an effïcient  system for basic education for all, which Ethiopia is trying to set up now.
32.5 Mr President, Ethiopia, believing that science and technology are indispensable for socio-economic  development, bas planned various activities in tune with the national development goals and the availability of  resources. In order to tackle the various socio-economic and environmental problems, actions are being taken to  intermarry the various aspects of the environment with local or domestic economic activities. Much tare is  being taken at present to ensure a proper balance between our long-term and immediate needs, and, to make  our technological progress responsive to our societal needs, Ethiopia has adopted a new national science and  technology policy.
32.6 In implementation of the World Decade for Cultural Development and in tune with the objectives and  ideals elaborated in previous resolutions, Ethiopia, in collaboration with UNESCO, has been doing its best to  preserve and restore historical sites, museums and the movable and immovable cultural heritage. It has also  paid special attention to the protection of the intangible cultural heritage like traditional folklore before it  withers away. Care has also been taken over the proper management of national parks. Believing that cultural  conflicts trigger misunderstanding and unnecessary contradictions, Ethiopia, which is a mosaic of nationalities,  has unequivocally enshrined the equality of nations and nationalities in its Transitional Charter. Accordingly,  some languages which were on the verge of extinction are being closely followed and tare is being taken for  their revival. It is strongly believed that the devolution of authority and functions would enhance and enrich  unity in diversity.
32.7 It is proper at this juncture to express my appreciation of the statement in paragraph 03112 of  document 27 C/5 to the effect that UNESCO is to reactivate the international campaign to safeguard the  historical monuments, sites and museums of Ethiopia. TO realize this, we request technical co-operation,  exchange of information and sharing of resources. We also recommend that necessary measures be taken to  popularize the various cultures and to preserve the dying languages. We feel the need for the increase of book  production and encouragement of translation of books into various national and international languages in  order to develop a reading culture.
32.8 Mr President, 1 would like next to touch upon some general points of interest. We fully appreciate and  whole-heartedly support the next biennium’s (1994-1995) Draft Programme and Budget. We support the  maintenance of the existing offïcial languages of UNESCO and we urge, too, that African languages in the long  run be given a role to play as media of communication in UNESCo’s officia1 business. We also strongly urge  support for the modernization of African languages, which are rich sources of cultural heritages and are  currently means of communication and transmission in limited circumstances.
32.9 As it is one of UNESCO’s primary objectives and interests to promote the free flow of ideas by Word  and image, activities related to communication, information and informatics which fall under Major  Programme Area IV are worth mentioning. Thanks to the Transitional Charter of Ethiopia and the Press Law,  State and private publications are mushrooming, but radio and television broadcasting are not making similar  headway. Their quality of transmission and coverage is still lagging behind the technology of the information  age. Be that as it may, Ethiopian press and electronic media have contributed greatly to the fostering of  democratic culture, exchange of ideas and opinions.
32.10 As part of the country’s cultural and social change, Ethiopia has put extra efforts into developing and  implementing strategies to enhance women’s participation in all development activities. A national policy on  women has been formulated and launched, aiming at eliminating direct and indirect discrimination against  women.
32.11 The question of youth is a no less buming issue since Young people are victims of unemployment and  other social inequalities. Understanding this grave situation, Ethiopia, though economically weak, intends to  lay down the groundwork for development activities which 1 hope Will alleviate the current problems, and Will  try to increase awareness of the needs, aspirations and potential of Young people among decision-makers.
32.12 Mr President, while we support the decentralization of UNESCO’s activities, we strongly advise that it  be implemented gradually. Unless the necessary manpower, infrastructure and facilities are assembled and clear
189    working guidelines, accompanied by the proper delineation of authority, established, decentralization Will  create more problems than solutions.
32.13 We believe that the questions of the frequency of General Conference sessions and of the intersession  mechanism of the Executive Board need to be handled carefully and cautiously. For our part, we prefer the  maintenance of the current practice of meeting at two-year intervals, in order to have close contact and co-  operation bath with the UNESCO Secretariat and Member States.
32.14 We would like to express our satisfaction with the priority accorded once again to least-developed  countries, women and Aftica through the Priority: Africa programme and other programmes as indicated in the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995. At the same time, we welcome the decision of the Executive Board  to have the Priority: Africa programme evaluated early in 1994.
32.15 Still in regard to the Priority: Africa programme, 1 would like to share with the distinguished delegates  of tliis assembly some information on a unique organization formed to promote girls’ education in Africa. In  September 1992, a group of 19 African women education ministers, permanent secretaries and vice-chancellors  formed a ‘Forum for African Women Educationists’ (FAWE). The objectives of the forum are well in line with  the objectives of UNESCO’s endeavours to encourage female education. FAWE now has members in 26 African  countries and is winning recognition by, and commitment from, the international community. 1 therefore  request the Director-General, on behalf of the Executive Committee of FAWE and the women education  ministers of Africa, to consider supporting FAWE and accepting it as a consultative body and as a member of  the International Consultative Committee of Women and Girls.
32.16 Mr President, with regard to the resolution of the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference  conceming the Appeal for Assistance to Ethiopia, 1 would like to thank the Director-General for presenting the  report in document 27 C/23. Constraints of a11 kinds, the shortage of trained manpower, poor infrastructure and  facilities and lack of finances urgently needed for rehabilitation and reconstruction have held back and  minimized the changes expected after the unfortunate years of conflict. Although UNESCO has made extra  efforts to contribute from its regular and Participation Programme budgets, not much has been forthcoming  from extra-budgetary sources. We therefore request the Director-General to continue, in 1994-1995, his  endeavour to mobilize resources from extemal sources, besides the assistance under the regular and  Participation Programmes, for the realization of 26 C/Resolution 18 - Appeal for Assistance to Ethiopia.
32.17 Finally, 1 sincerely wish the deliberations of this General Conference a complete and resounding  success. Thank you.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Ethiopia for this important speech. 1 now cal1 on MS Kabunda  Kayongo, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Zambia.
34.1 MS KAYONGO (Zambia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the delegation of the  Republic of Zambia, 1 wish to join other speakers before me in congratulating you on your election as President  of this Conference. May your leadership ensure that the proceedings of this Conference are smooth and fruitful  for the benelit of humanity. In the same vein, 1 wish to pay tribute to the President of the twenty-sixth session of  the General Conference of the Organization, Professor Bethwell Allan Ogot, for the excellent and wise  guidance lie provided to what was a particularly difficult session.
34.2 1 also wish to extend my congratulations to the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, for tbe  tremendous zeal and dedication with which he has executed his complex and daunting responsibilities and  challenges of the Organization. He and his staff have produced some very challenging documents for this  Conference, which cal1 upon us to provide guidance as to the way forward, in the face of continuing extreme  serious resource constraints.
34.3 My delegation also wishes to pay tribute to the Executive Board for the thorough and competent  manner in which it has undertaken its work, and for the important recommendations it has made for our  consideration.
34.4 Mr President, the mission of UNESCO is to contribute to peace and security, and to advance the  common good of humanity by promoting international understanding and collaboration through education,  science, culture and communication in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for  the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world in the Charter of  the United Nations. It is important that we constantly reflect seriously on these noble ideals and objectives of  UNBSCO’s founding parents and take stock of what we have done and not done.
34.5 As we approach the twenty-first century, we are witnesses to yet another historic moment, a moment  full of misery and suffering, arising from the process of democratization, which is releasing forces of violence,  ethnie strife, cultural and religious intolerance. 1 wish to associate my delegation with the sentiments of those  who have condemned the recent events in the sister Republic of Burundi. ‘The overthrow of the democratically  elected Government of President Ndadaye barely three months after he was given an overwhelming mandate by  the people of Burundi is a major setback for Africa’s gallant march towards democracy and good govemance.  As one of the leaders in the field of democratization, Zambia shall not be part of the conspiracy of silence  against the legitimate democratic aspirations of the popular Will of the people.’ This is the position of my  govemment.
34.6 In the light of the above events it has become obvious that education, science and culture should be  used more than ever before as media to purvey the message of multicultural coexistence and political tolerance  based on the underlying socio-religious and political unity of humanity. The efforts and influence of UNESCO  in resolving the civil strife and violence brought about by the process of democratization should be more  pronounced and substantial than in the past. There is need for UNESCO to provide education facilities and  survival skills to the displaced children and women in the war-tom regions and nations.
34.7 Mr President, my delegation is satisfied with the progress SO far made regarding the general strategy of  programme concentration as enunciated in document 27 C/5. However, the challenge and the opportunity lie in  actually determining and defining ‘the areas of action deemed urgent by Member States’ and then deciding what
10 leave out of that which the Organization bas been and is doing.
34.8 Nevertheless, my delegation welcomes seven important aspects in the Draft Programme and Budget  namely, the accent placed on human development; the top priority given to basic education and technical and  vocational training; the complementarity of UNESCO’s activities with those of other organizations of the  United Nations system; greater linkage between education and culture; strengthening of national information  and communication capacities for new democracies; greater attention to the pressing needs of the least-  developed countries, the Africa region and women; and the promotion of peace, human rights and democracy.  My delegation has no diffculty in supporting the recommendations and proposed modification formulated by  the Executive Board, as contained in document 27 C/6. We fully endorse programme activities envisaged to  reaffirm the task of meeting the three major challenges of our time - peace, development and the protection of  our environment.
34.9 Mr President, the above principles are paramount to the thinking of the new MMD Government in my  country which was ushered in through an overwhehning popular vote and thereby replaced the oppressive one-  party system. My government is committed to the reconstruction and rejuvenation of the whole educational  system. The Ministry of Education is, right now, a hive of activities in an endeavour to formulate a  comprehensive national policy and strategies for education in the 1990s. In this policy document, Zambia is  focusing attention on early childhood development, nine-year basic education, and diversified curricula  encompassing vocational training and educational decentralization. These efforts Will culminate in the  amendment of the Education Act of 1966 which included many undesirable colonial hangovers.
34.10 My govemment is not only introducing new initiatives in general education but is also addressing the  problems facing Zambian university education and other institutions of higher leaming.
34.11 Mr President, may 1 say a Word or two on the challenges facing our environment. The World Summit  on the Environment, held in June 1992, enhanced our awareness of its delicate fragility. We must admit that we  have been spendthrift with our environment, regarding it as infmitely resilient, as boundlessly prodigal, as  endlessly forgiving. We neglected the checks and balances needed to keep our planet Earth in a healthy state.
34.12 In the past, our Zambian education system, our courses and textbooks and examinations, ignored  environmental issues. True, we taught environmental science, but mostly this was a synonym for general  science. We established a university school of environmental studies, but this deals only with the man-made  environment of buildings and architecture and town planning.
34.13 In the meantime, we generate industrial waste from our mines and industry but do not know how to  dispose of it. We are blessed with a rich diversity of wildlife, but we are trot able to protect it as unlicensed  poachers diminish some of the world rare species like the rhino and the elephant. We have vast lakes and tiesh  water rivers, but they cari no longer provide fïsh in sufficient quantity for our people. We therefore pay  particular tribute to UNESCO for working out strategies aimed at addressing these major concems.
34.14 Mr President, my delegation fully welcomes the work plan for the World Decade for Cultural  Development in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995. We endorse in particular the emphasis on tbe  cultural dimension of development through co-operation with other Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations, research, pilot projects and the promotional activities of tbe Decade. 1 a~ pleased to report that my  country’s National Committee for the Decade organized a celebration of World Day of Cultural Development  on 21 May 1993. Consequently, my govemment is already giving full support to artists and cultural institutions  to review the country’s cultural policy. In addition, the govemment is conducting consultations with national  artists and art administrators to establish for the fnst time the National Arts Council tbrough an Act of  Parliament. Al1 this is being done in full realization of the importance of culture in national development.
34.15 Mr President, the role of science and teclmology in national development is no longer a mattcr for  debate: it is a reality. The problem has been and continues to be the ever-varying degree of scientific and  technological advancement among nations. We of the developing world, therefore, have to contend with the  speed of scientifïc and technological change now taking place in the developed world. My govemment Will  consequently support those programme actions of UNESCO which are intended to enable developing countries  to strengthen their indigenous scientific and technological capacities and capabilities.
34.16 Mr President, the Govemment of tbe Republic of Zambia has over the past decade or SO been pleading  to UNESCO to have the Lusaka fïeld office strengthened. My delegation is once again requesting that the office  be strengthened SO that it cari efficiently serve the interests of Member States in the subregion. The ability of  most developing Member States to participate fully and effectively in the programme activities of UNESCO  depends upon several factors, one of which is communication. The problem of communication has continued to  beset the continent of Africa. My delegation, while welcoming tbe decentrahzation of some functions and  resources to field offices and appreciating the resource constraints faced by the Organization, is of the view that  it would bc cheaper, in the interim period at least, to maintain the current field offices instead of closing down  some of them and open new ones later on. One of the criteria to be used in deciding whether to maintain or  close a field office should be the optimum number of Member States and their total population that cari be  effectively and efficiently served and hence the work-load to be borne by each field office. In Africa,  accessibility is a crucial point that UNESCO may take into account.
34.17 In similar vein, the importance of communication and information at the national level cannot be  overemphasized. In the process of strengthening our democratic institutions and reaching out to our people  scattered in the remotest parts of our country, we need a lot of support from UNESCO and other related well-  wishers.
34.18 The question of ‘priority target groups’, especially women, is a complex one and mises many  fundamental issues. It is a fact that in many countries today matters pertaining to women are not adequately  addressed. My delegation is therefore encouraged by the prominence accorded to tbis whole question in the  Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995 in accordance with the spirit of the third Medium-Term Plan
(1990-1995). However, tbe challenge for UNESCO is to implement the programme actions in the spirit in  which they have been conceived and approved by tbis august House. Therefore, Zatnbia proposes, as other  African delegations have done, that the Forum for African Women Educationists should bc accorded  consultative status and a Seat at UNESCO in order to advance the issues of the Alrican girl-Child better.
34.19 1 cannot end this statement, Mr President, without mentioning that my govemment is also tackhng tbe  plight of nationals with special disabilities, street children and other disadvantaged groups in our country.
34.20 Finally, Mr President, 1 wish to reiterate my delegation’s general support for fhe Draft Programme and  Budget for 1994-1995 and my govemment’s commitment to co-operate lùlly w1t.h U’l@SC!O in its efforts to  fulfil its world mandate. One cannot overemphasize the importance of a clear and $îfh~lified plti of action in  order to facilitate the implementation process. Thank you.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  I thank the head of the delegation of Zambia for this important statement. 1 now cal1 upon  HE Mr Aniceto Dos Muchangos, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Mozambique.
36.1 Mr DOS MUCHANGOS (Mozambique): *  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the  delegation of the Republic of Mozambique and on my own behalf, 1 would like to associate myself with the  delegations which have spoken before me and congratulated you on your appointment as President of the  twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, wishing you much success in this honourable task.
36.2 We would also like to take tbis opportunity to express our recognition and positive assessment of the  work undertaken by Mr Ogot during his mandate. He carried out his mission successfully, with enthusiasm and  wisdom. My delegation also has to accomplish the obligation of doing justice to the Director-General of  UNESCO and congratulate him on the selfless and dynamic way he has led our Organization. The successes  achieved during his mandate speak for themselves.
36.3 The changes under way would not have the same weight witbout the hard work of the Executive  Board, and the leading role of MS Marie Bernard-Meunier. We congratulate her and the other members of the  Board.
36.4 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, after 16 years of  armed conflict, the Mozambican delegation is taking part for the first time in the forum without bringing with  it the anguish of cchoing gunfne. We bring with us a message of hope and the belief of sixteen million  Mozambicans in the irreversibility of the peace process.
36.5 In global terms, we are worried about the proliferation of hotbeds of conflict in the world, and  particularly on our continent. This has been described clearly by the Director-General in his opening address.  Mozambique knows the value of peace for development and therefore understands and recognizes the role of  UNESCO in promoting peace. We are convinced that, due to the ethical nature of its mission and the  universality of its character, UNESCO could contribute significanuy in overcoming the present challenges to  the peace process.
36.6 The commitment of my country to the ideals of UNESCO was renewed by the recent visit to tbe  Headquarters of UNESCO by H.E. the President of the Republic of Mozambique. The first visit by a  Mozambican Head of State to this house of education, science and culture clearly expresses our sensitivity to  and recognition of the role played by the international community in the peace process, in reconciliation,  democratization and national reconstruction.
36.7 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the biennium that is now coming to an end, Mozambique  has undergone a process of deep transformation in the social and economic domains which have serious  implications in the fields of competence of UNESCO. The present situation of our country has received the  necessary attention from the various agencies of the United Nations system. Al1 this attention is justilïed if we  take into account the fact that, besides heading the list of the least-developed countries (LDCs) of tbe world, it  is simultaneously undergoing a process of transformation leading towards a democratic society based upon a  multi-party system. These transformations, which sometimes assume the character of a genuine revolution, are  expressed through efforts to eradicate the causes of armed conflict and achieve the transition to a situation of  peace and stability, through the transition from a one-party system to a multi-party system; and through the  transition from a centrally planned to a free market economy.
36.8 It is within this context that we requested the assistance of the United Nations, which promptly  answered our request, making available a large peace-keeping contingent to monitor the peace process. This  contingent includes units responsible for humanitarian assistance and the social integration of demobilized  soldiers, displaced persons and refugees.
36.9 Within the follow-up to the peace process and in order to strengthen democracy, Mozambique was  recently honoured by a visit from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Boutros Boutros-Ghali. His  presence in Mozambique last week constituted an important boost to the process of peace and made a
1. The speaker provided the Secretariat with an annex to his statement which witb the authorization of the President,  is reproduced in annex to this Verbatim record.
193    substantial contribution to renewing, within the hearts of Mozambicans and of the international community,  hopes for a peaceful development of the country.
36.10 We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude and deep recognition of the role played  by UNESCO and the international community, and to avail ourselves of this occasion to renew our appeal for  continued assistance to our country in the efforts to re-establish peace and reinforce our ongoing endeavours.
36.11 There are various means of assistance which cari be given: previous experience of co-operation with  UNESCO permits us to propose the following areas of intervention: rehabilitation of the school network  including the training of teachers and different actors at local level; social integration of the population stricken  by war, particularly children and Young people, within the framework of the emergency programme; and  development of studies aimed at promoting the spirit of peace, mutual respect, tolerance, mutual understanding  and respect for human rights, integrated in the spirit of the work carried on by the Delors Commission.
36.12 Mozambique feels deeply honoured by the speedy response of the Director-General of UNESCO to the  problems outlined by H.E. the President of the Republic of Mozambique conceming the development of  democracy, peace and the rehabilitation of the education system. We hope that during the following biennium,  UNESCO Will succeed in mobilizing funds for the implementation of the programme on the culture of peace in  our country.
36.13 The commitment of the Mozambican Government to the ideals of peace, is evidenced in the effort of  our govemment to strengtben the Mozambican National Commission for UNESCO by granting it lïnancial and  administrative autonomy. This has allowed it functional flexibiiity and greater possibiiities of dialogue with  government institutions as well as civil society.
36.14 Permit me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to point out tbat during the current biennium, our  country was entrusted with the responsibility of organizing a consultation meeting of the Eastem and Southem  African National Commissions for UNESCO, which was held last June in Maputo. From our point of view, this  event was a success and we would like to request assistance to ensure follow-up to the proposed activities,  namely through the implementation of projects contained in the draft resolution submitted to tbis Conference.
36.15 We welcome the doubling of the funds earmarked for the National Commissions during the 1993-1994  biennium and the decision of the 142nd session of tbe Executive Board conceming co-operation between  UNESCO and the National Commissions, with particular reference to the training of staff working in these  institutions.
36.16 Within tbe framework of regional co-operation, we would like, as co-ordinators of the culture and  information sector in the Southem African Development Community (SADC), to request for assistance aimed  at reinforcing and improving the links and mechanism of co-operation between UNESCO and SADC. It is the  wish of all the SADC countries that UNESCO promote the development of fruitful co-operation in the lïelds of  education, science, culture and information among the countries in the region.
36.17 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mozambique has undertaken a large measure of co-operation with  UNESCO. But we understand that, for this to be effective, a greater number of specialists and technicians  should be involved in carrying out the Organization’s programme.
36.18 The experience of the past biennium has shown the use of associate specialists to have been extremely  beneficial and that it cari be recommended, but we would like to see our representation in the Secretariat of the  Organization increased as well as among the national consultants in other regions. In general we would like to  see a balance of representation of a11 tbe countries, especially those without representation or with low  representation in the UNESCO Secretariat. This would be a contribution to the efforts of the Director-General  in renewing the Organization,
36.19 We commend and have always supported the existence of a Forum of Reflection and the Commissions  on Culture and Development and on Education for the Twenty-Fiist Century because we believe that this  initiative may contribute to the renewal and achievement of the fundamental objectives of UNESCO.
36.20 Briefly, we shall support all measures aimed at enhancing the universality of the Organization, with  particular reference to the participation of countries with a low representation. At the same time, we are in  favour of the retum of the members who left the Organization.
36.21 Mr President, as far as document 27 C!/5 is concemed, we wish to congratulate the Secretariat on its  quality and presentation; it is easy to understand, and well linked to the Medium-Term Plan and continues to  lay emphasis on the priority to be accounted to the least-developed countries, Africa and women. We agree with  the concentration of major programme areas, which would benefit priority areas. However, we believe that  special attention should be accorded to the transverse programmes on youtb, particularly in the field of  assistance in activities related to the definition of policies and strategies.
36.22 We appreciate the increase in the budget proposed for the Participation Programme, and recommend  its progressive decentralization as a way of strengthening the executive capacities of UNESCO Regional Offices  and the intervention of the National Commissions.
36.23 We also share the idea that the future of UNESCO depends, fundamentally, on the forms of co-  operation witb other agencies of the United Nations system as well as on success in the implementation of  decentralization policies.
36.24 We wish, fmally, to express our concem about the reduction of the funds to be allocated to UNESCO  by the financing agencies, by tbe private sector and by the World Bank. Aware of this important problem, we  would like to appeal to tbe donor countries to increase their contributions, in order to enable UNESCO to  continue to provide technical assistance and expertise.
36.25 Owing to time constraints, 1 would like to cal1 the attention of the Secretariat to the annex to this  presentation, which contains comments on the major programme areas and on various projects. Thank you for  your attention.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Mozambique for this valuable statement. 1 now cal1 upon  H.E. MS Paulette Moussavou-Missambo, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Gabon.
38.1 Mme MOUSSAVOU-MISSAMBO (Gabon) :  Monsieur le President de la Conference genérale, Madame la présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur genéral, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, comme tous les  honorables delégués qui nous ont précédés à cette tribune, je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour vous adresser,  Monsieur le President, et au nom de la délégation gabonaise que j’ai l’honneur de conduire, toutes nos  félicitations pour votre brillante élection a la présidence des présentes assises. Nos compliments vont  Cgalement à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif pour sa disponibilité et son dynamisme dans  l’accomplissement de son travail. Nous tenons aussi a féliciter Monsieur le Directeur général ainsi que tous les  membres du Secr&ariat pour la qualité des documents mis a la disposition de la délégation gabonaise.
38.2 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget établi pour le biennum 1994-1995 répond  aux directives émises a la vingt-sixieme session en 1991 et s’inscrit dans un contexte particulier, celui de la  transition conceptuelle et institutionnelle de portée historique. Il prend pour base le cadre général du Plan à  moyen terme pour 1990-1995 et tient compte effectivement des changements intervenus dans les Etats  membres et dans la situation internationale. 11 est concis, plus clair et plus accessible. Dans cette nouvelle  presentation du Programme et budget, l’accent a eté mis sur la stratégie et la définition des objectifs davantage  que sur l’énumeration détaillée des activités. Nous nous réjouissons également du fait qu’elle offre aux organes  directeurs de notre Organisation un document plus adapté a la prise de décision en les incitant à centrer leurs  déliberations sur les stratégies, les objectifs et les priorités. Nous nous réjouissons enfin de l’effort plus  important qui est fait par rapport au passé afin de répondre aux besoins urgents des groupes prioritaires, à  savoir : les pays les moins avancés, les Etats membres de notre région et les femmes.
38.3 Monsieur le President, s’agissant du champ majeur de programme 1 “L’Éducation et l’avenir”, notre  délégation note la pertinence des actions qui y sont proposées ainsi que la nouvelle structure. La priorite  accordee à ce champ majeur de programme se reflète dans les credits budgetaires qui lui sont alloues. Le  gouvernement de mon pays a depuis longtemps considére l’education comme un domaine prioritaire de  développement, au même titre que la santé et l’aménagement des voies de communication. A cet egard, l’Etat  gabonais a entrepris depuis 1991 un vaste programme de construction et de rehabilitation des équipements
195    scolaires, dans une première phase, ainsi que l’amorce dune mutation prudente mais profonde de notre systeme  éducatif, l’objectif étant la promotion de l’Ecole nouvelle gabonaise. Celle-ci entend génerer une vraie culture  éducative fondée sur une nécessaire adaptation au milieu et sur la creativité.La deuxième phase du programme  comporte un volet pédagogique avec la poursuite du programme de recyclage des instituteurs, de la formation  des formateurs du primaire et du secondaire, ainsi que l’amtlioration des structures de travail des personnels  d’encadrement, mieux adaptés aux nouveaux défis pedagogiques. Dans le but d’améliorer la condition du  personnel enseignant, le gouvernement de mon pays a decidé d’instituer une joumee de l’enseignant, anticipant  ainsi l’adoption, au cours des présentes assises de notre Organisation, d’une souhaitable Journe% mondiale de  l’enseignant. Dans mon pays, la cblebration de cette joumke a éte marqute par l’organisation d’un séminaire  consacré à la formation des directeurs d’école, ainsi que par l’organisation de nombreuses activités d’ordre  pédagogique. Il nous paraît évident que ce programme, qui vise l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement,  ne peut réellement donner des resultats que si l’enseignant s’implique dans cette nouvelle donne de  l’enseignement au Gabon. C’est dans ce sens que le gouvernement de mon pays a fait voter une loi portant  statut particulier des personnels de l’education. Cette loi offre l’intérêt d’organiser la carrière enseignante sur la  base du mérite et de permettre une évolution coherente de la carrière. Elle prevoit également un certain  nombre d’avantages matkiels en faveur de l’enseignant mais lui prescrit aussi des devoirs vis-à-vis de l’enfant  qui lui est confie.
38.4 Toutefois, permettez-moi de dire que l’impulsion actuelle constatée dans les différents domaines de  développement de mon pays est aussi la conséquence du choix souverain et unanime des Gabonais pour  l’instauration dune République résolument democratique. En effet, l’ouverture démocratique en cours  depuis 1990 demeure le moteur d’un mouvement qui a vu se mettre en place, pacifiquement, un gouvernement  de transition qui a procedé à la mise en place de toutes les institutions appelées à faciliter la régulation de  l’essor democratique national, a savoir : une assemblée nationale pluraliste, une cour constitutionnelle, un  conseil national de la communication et un conseil Cconomique et social dynamiques. Les gains de  souverainete ainsi etendus ZI tous les acteurs politiques de notre pays se sont traduits par l’adoption d’une  nouvelle Constitution de la République gabonaise. Le 5 décembre prochain verra les Gabonaises et les  Gabonais participer pleinement a l’élection présidentielle, pour laquelle plusieurs candidats se disputeront leurs  suffrages.
38.5 Monsieur le Président, dans son effort de renovation du système educatif, mon pays souscrit  également à la necessaire promotion dune éducation physique et sportive de qualité. L’éducation physique  constitue donc une priorité de l’action gouvernementale au Gabon. Avec votre permission, je ne m’étendrai pas  dans l’enumération de toutes les actions entreprises par mon gouvernement dans ce domaine. Toutefois, je  voudrais souligner l’élaboration et l’application dune programmation de l’éducation physique et du sport dans  le second degre, normal et technique ; la valorisation et l’harmonisation du systéme devaluation du coefficient  dans les établissements de ce type ; l’introduction de l’éducation physique et sportive dans le cycle de  l’enseignement primaire ; l’amélioration de l’encadrement, tant sur le plan quantitatif que qualitatif, avec  l’ouverture, il y a un an, d’un cycle de formation de professeurs d’éducation physique et sportive, ainsi que la  planification de stages de formation continue.
38.6 S’agissant du champ majeur de programme II intitulé “La science pour le progrès et l’environnement”,  nous approuvons entièrement la nouvelle structure proposée. Les problèmes de l’environnement demeurent  assurément une preoccupation importante pour notre pays. Aussi les actions de programme qui y sont  présentées nous paraissent-elles positives et nous les appuyons. Dans le cadre de la recherche scientifique et en  raison de la crise que traversent nombre de pays - dont le mien -, les activités dans ce domaine sont  relativement reduites. Néanmoins, un certain nombre d’actions de recherche continuent d’être menées par le  Centre national de la recherche scientifique et technologique.
38.7 Dans le domaine de la communication, les propositions contenues dans le document élaboré par le  Secr&ariat nous paraissent pertinentes. En effet, ce programme reflète clairement les principaux éléments de la  nouvelle stratégie de communication, à savoir : l’encouragement de la liberté de la presse, de l’indépendance et  du pluralisme des médias, composantes essentielles des sociétes démocratiques. En outre, nous approuvons le  rôle joué par le Programme international pour le développement de la communication de notre Organisation.
38.8 Monsieur le Président, qu’il nous soit permis de saluer ici l’heureuse initiative de notre Organisation  de créer un comité consultatif de haut niveau pour renforcer la coordination des activités en faveur des  femmes, et dont la présidence sera assu& par le Directeur général de l’UNESCO. Je dois dire que ce nouvel
6  effort visant a accorder plus de crédit aux activités spécifiques des femmes nous rassure et confirme, une fois  encore, la volonté de notre Organisation de prendre en compte les préoccupations des femmes.
38.9 Le gouvernement de mon pays soutient en outre les activites de l’UNESCO visant au renforcement  des programmes d’alphabétisation et de postalphabétisation, ainsi que la mise au point de stratégies et activités  de formation afin d’offrir aux jeunes filles et aux femmes non scolaris6es d’autres possibilités d’éducation. C’est  dans ce sens que nous envisageons de mettre en place des centres féminins de formation et de production  artisanale, dans lesquels I’alphabCtisation représentera un volet important. Sur un autre plan, spécialement  celui de l’kducation sexuelle, notre Organisation nous parait pouvoir conduire des campagnes d’information et  de sensibilisation aupres des jeunes filles des Etats membres. Nous apprécions par ailleurs l’octroi de bourses  de formation aux femmes scientifiques et ingénieurs. Cette attention ne peut que valoriser davantage la  représentativité des femmes dans ces domaines.
38.10 En ce qui concerne le champ majeur de programme IV, nous sommes heureux de constater l’attention  particulière portée par notre Organisation aux groupements associatifs féminins. En effet, les temps difficiles  que traverse notre pays sur le plan tconomique ont suscité chez les Gabonaises un sursaut en matière  d’organisation collective. Ainsi, lors du premier Forum national sur la condition de la femme, organise à  Libreville en mars 1992, les participantes ont pris conscience du fait que l’amélioration du sort de la femme  dans la societé dépendait d’abord d’elle-même. Nous réaffirmons également notre appui à toutes les actions qui  visent à lutter contre toutes les formes de discrimination. Dans cet esprit, les femmes gabonaises ont organisé  un colloque sur le code civil lors de la Journée internationale de la femme au mois de mars de cette annee. Ce  colloque visait à débattre des possibilids d’evolution du code civil dans le sens de son adaptation & la nouvelle  situation de la femme gabonaise aujourd’hui. Nous soutenons donc l’initiative de I’UNFSCO de mener des  Ctudes sur la situation actuelle des femmes dans le monde et nous souhaitons vivement que les résultats de ces  Ctudes soient mis a la disposition des Etats membres dès leur publication. Dans le même ordre d’idees, nous  soutenons la candidature du Forum des femmes ministres de l’éducation en tant que membre du Comité  consultatif de l’UNESCO.
38.11 Monsieur le Président, bien que limitee par le temps, je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans saluer  l’arrivée de nouveaux Etats membres au sein de notre Organisation. Et je voudrais saluer, en même temps que  l’accord de paix intervenu entre Israël et I’OLP, les efforts en cours en Afrique du Sud pour la promotion dune  société libre et démocratique. Je vous remercie.
(3% The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Gabon for this important statement. Now, ladies and gentlemen, 1  should like to remind the members of the General Committee that the Committee will meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow  morning. The plenq will begin at 10 a.m. precisely. Thank you very much. The meeting is now closed.  La séance est levée a 19 h.05  The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m.  Se levants la sesion a las 19.05
3EiCe~aHHle JaKpbIBaeTCSl B 19.05  .LJ,.otWI&#.i~Id,  $tiT-l98;fo5$&g