Quatrième séance plénière
26 octobre 1993, à 15 h.10  Président : M. Sayyad (Y&nen)  puis : Mme Vaz da Silva (Pormgal)  puis : M. Sayyad (Y&en)  Fourth plenary meeting
26 o~~a6prr 1993 rl B 15.1~,  IIpencefiaTenb: PH CAMIIJl, (HeMeH)
59    PREMIER RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DE LA PRESIDENTE DU COMITE  DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  FIRST SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE  PRIMER INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DE LA PRESIDENTA DEL COMITE  DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  IIEPBbIfi ~OIIOJlHHTEJlbH.bI~ AOKJIfirl IIPE~CE)JATEJDl KOMHTETA HO  HPOBEPKE IlOJlHOMOYI&I  JLUYI &li, ‘,ad I+l 1IILyJ J$l #AJI &&Jl
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  With your permission, 1 declare the fourth plenary meeting open. 1 will fiist of a11 cal1 on MS Prera  Flores, Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, to present her report to you. MS Prera Flores.
(2.1) MS PREXA FLORES (Guatemala), Chairperson of the Credentials Committee (Translation from the  Spat&h):  Thank you, Mr President, Your Ezcellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Since the  first report of the Credentials Committee was read at the plenary session held on 25 October 1993 at 4.45 p.m.,  the credentials have been received in proper form from the following States: Andorra, Nigeria and Niue. The  credentials have also been receivcd in proper form from Argentina, Bahamas, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada,  Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypf Equatorial Guinea, Lebanon, Lithuania, Sao Tome and Principe, Yemen and Zaire.  These countries had previously presented provisional credentials. By virtue of the authorization granted me by the  Credentials Committee, 1 propose that the General Conference accept these credentials.
(2.2) Furthermore, Somalia has presented provisional credentials. 1 propose that these provisional credentials  be accepted, subject to their presentation in proper form at a later date. 1 also propose that, in the meantime, the  delegation liom this country should be allowed to participate in the work of this session of the General  Conference.
(2.3) In conclusion, 1 should lilce to remind you that the Committee took note of the fact that the following  countties have not presented the credentials for their delegations: Grenada, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Saint  Christopher and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Tuvalu.
(2.4) TO date tbe Committee has received 134 credentials in proper form, 37 provisional credentials and eight  countries have not yet presented their credentials. 1 wish to inform these countries that the secretariat of the  Credentials Committee is fully at the disposa1 of these States to provide them with a11 the information they may  require to present their credentials. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, MS Prera Flores, for this report. If there are no requests to speak, it will be  adopted as presented by the Chairperson of the Crcdentials Committee.
(3.2) It is SO decidd.  DECLARATION DU REPRESENTANT DE LA COMMUNAUTE EUROPEENNE  STATEMENT BY THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY  DECLARACION DEL REPRESENTANTE DE LA COMUNIDAD EUROPEA
(4) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 now give the floor to His Ekcellency the Ambassador of Belgium. Mr Ambassador.
5. M. ADAM (Belgique) :  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la présidence en exercice de la Communauté europCenne t de ses  Etats membres qui sont egalement membres de l’UNESCO, je dois porter a votre connaissance ce qui suit : la  prksence 3 la Conf&ence génCrale d’une délbgation zaïroise menée par le Ministre de l’enseignement primaire,  secondaire et professionnel du gouvernement dirigé par M. Faustin Birindwa n’implique aucunement que la  Communauti et ses membres acceptent ce gouvernement ; celui-ci n’est en effet issu que d’un conclave politique  composé uniquement de reprbsentants de la mouvante présidentielle, sans approbation du Haut Conseil de la  République et par conséquent, en dehors du processus de transition défini par la Conférence nationale  souveraine. Cette déclaration, Monsieur le Président, avait uniquement pour but de rappeler la position de la  présidence et de la Communauti européenne a ce sujet. Je vous remercie.
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Ambassador. We have taken note of the content of this announcement. I now give the  floor to the Ambassador of Zaire.
7. M. AKWESI (Zaïre) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Pr&ident. Le Zaiire Ctant indt?pendant depuis 1960 ne devrait  normalement pas répondre à ce qui vient d’être deClart5 par l’honorable dt%gué de la Belgique au nom de douze  Etats membres de notre Organisation qui, je voudrais vous le rappeler, compte aujourd’hui 180 Etats membres.  Vous êtes, Monsieur le Président, comme le Directeur g&%al l’a dit ce matin, un des initiateurs du grand  programme “Culture de paix”. Dans cette maison de l’UNESCO qui est la maison de la paix - cette paix que  nous poursuivons tous par l’éducation et à laquelle le Secrétaire gCnCral de I’ONU travaille de concert avec
61    toutes les âmes de bonne volonté - nous ne pouvons, Monsieur le Président, que faire tout ce qui est en notre  pouvoir pour que la paix règne dans nos coeurs et que l’ordre soit etabli. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le  President.
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador. We take note of what you have said. With the speech made by  MS Prera Flores, we have now concluded this part of the agenda. The first and second amrouncements are a  matter of record. Thank you very much.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE PGLITICA GENERAL (continuaci6n)  OBCYX~EHkIE BOIIPOCOB OBIl.IEfi IIOJIklTMKkl (nponoJr>Kenne)  (@) LUI Lt+Jl aAiL  PiEp%%% ( 3% )
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now corne on to the general policy debate. According to the agreed rules of  the debate, the period of time allowed for deliveriug speeches must not exceed 12 minutes. 1 urge everyone to try  to keep to this time-limit because it will ensure the smooth running of the business of this plenary meeting, not to  mention that of the other commissions. 1 would also like to remind the heads of delegation that they cari submit  requests for the full texts of speeches, not exceediug 2,500 words and in which matters touched on briefly during  the actual speech may be covered in greater detail, to be added to the Verbatim records of the plenary meeting, as  has happened at previous sessions. The differences between what was actually said during the meeting and what  is added in the published texts will be clearly indicated in the Verbatim records. If a delegation does not wish to  deliver a speech, then it cari provide a written text or give a copy of the preparcd speech to the Secretariat, which  will distribute it to the various Member States. With your permission, therefore, we will begin with the fust  speaker. 1 cal1 upon Mr Wardiman Djojonegoro, Minister of Education and Culture and head of the Iirdonesian  delegation, to take the floor.
10.1 Mr DJOJONEGGRO (Indonesia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as the  first speaker in this general policy debate, aIlow me fnst of all, to offer you, Mr President, on behaIf of the  Indonesian delegation, our warmest congratulations on your election as President of this session of the General  Conference. We are confident that with your vast experience and wise leadership, our deliberations in this  Conference Will be fruitful.
10.2 Mr President, in Indonesia UNESCO is considered to be a most valuable organization that helps us  focus on such paramount concems as education and culture.
10.3 Tuming now to the key agenda item, 1 cari report that in principle the Indonesian delegation supports  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995. We do understand also that the programme activities are an  integral part of regional implementation plans, providing for the role of UNESCO’s Regional Offices and  National Commissions to be strengthened. For us in Indonesia, the development context in which these work  plans are to be executed is changing extremely rapidly and we have to be flexible in implementing work plans  SO as to adapt to the changing environment to the greatest extent.
10.4 Two conditions in particular have caused us to seek a flexible stance. Here 1 refer to the globalization  of commerce and industry, and the explosive growth of science and technology, critical to our continued  economic development. In Indonesia these developments have a most severe impact on both education and  culture.
10.5 With respect to Major Programme Area 1, dealing with basic education, Indonesia fully endorses the  priority given under Programme 1.1, entitled ‘Towards basic education for aIl’, and we look forward to the  results, under Programme 1.2, of the work done by the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-  First Century. This major programme area is important to Indonesia where the government is fully committed  by law to providing basic education to ail its citizens. In this regard, not only is it necessary to expand the  education system considerably and increase participation rates fttrther, but we must simultaneously improve the  quality of education in order to build up a skilled, flexible and technology-literate work-force that cari meet the  requirements of the modem work-place.
10.6 Mr President, the Indonesian Govemment supports the initiative taken by UNESCO and the United  Nations agencies concemed in the organization of the summit of the nine most populous developing countries  on education for a& where Indonesia wiIl share our successful experience in this fïeld.
10.7 Major Programme Area II is perhaps the most critical to Indonesia as it deals, among others, with  improvements in higher education and improvements in technology development and utilization. If Indonesia is  to take its rightful place among developed and industrialiid countries in the future, such improvements are  today more urgent than ever, because of the extremely rapid pace of development in science and technology.  We have no other choice than to master science and technology, if we do not want to be left behind.
10.8 With respect to higher education, it is fundamental that much more attention, be given to basic  sciences and engineering in order to meet the requirements of a developing economy in the global market-  place. Within the context of improving basic sciences and engineering, there is, indeed, an urgent need to  promote research and studies in mathematics, and to support research and advanced training activities in co-  operation with regional networks and societies. With respect to the latter, Indonesia much appreciates the  Japanese Government’s fund-in-trust contribution to the regional Sou&Asian network of microbiology and  chemistry of natural products.
10.9 We must aim at complete mastery of science and technology in order to avoid being held hostage to  those that have an edge in this area. It is for this reason that we corne out in strong support for the UNESCO  programme in engineering science and technology, a well-structured programme with regional technology  networks as the main vehicles for implementation. There are only a few instances in which the networks have  succeeded in introducing appropriate technologies at the grass-roots level for the benefit of actual users.  Indonesia accepts this as a real challenge to be faced by a special agency created by the govemment. This is the  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology, with the specific charter of facilitating technology  transfer to Indonesian industry.
10.10 Mr President, there are particular subprogrammes in Major Programme Area II which 1 would like to  single out for special consideration. Fiist, we believe, with respect to strategies for science and technology  development, that substantial support should continue to be given to the Science and Technology Policy Asian  Network (STEPAN). A second subprogramme, covered in paragraph 02218, relates to preparation for natural  disasters. Indonesia is prone to natural disasters. As you may know, Indonesia last year experienced a disaster  caused by the earthquake and tsunami in Flores, East Nusa Tenggara. It is in view of such events that we  appreciate very much that UNESCO is to implement hazard zonation studies with regard to earthquakes,  volcanic eruptions and landslides, including the application of disaster prevention techniques in building and  land-use. design. Indonesia is most eager to participate in such activities and to be involved in activities  associated with the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction. In this regard, 1 would like to add that  a special ASEAN forum bas been established, the ASEAN Experts Group on Natural Disasters, which meets  every two years. We would like to suggest that UNESCO participate in these activities by providing expert  assistance and funds.
10.11 Conceming follow-up to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED),  we should pay more attention to sustainable biosphere action. Indonesia endorses the Global Ocean Observing  System and the International Environmental Education Programme.
10.12 Mr President, 1 am proud to report that Indonesia considers itself an important participant in Major  Programme Area III: ‘Culture: past, present and future’. SeveraI activities related to this major programme area  have been and are being conducted in Indonesia, and we are grateful for the support provided by UNESCO. On  the occasion of the first celebration, on 21 May 1992, of the World Day for Cultural Development, Indonesia  organized an international symposium on culture and environment, which was held in Bogor, West Java.  Furthermore, Indonesia hosted last year an international meeting on the establishment of a UNESCO video  collection of traditionaI performing arts. At present UNESCO provides support for a project entitled ‘Cultural  Tourism in Central Java and Yogyakarta’. We are looking forward to the results of the work performed by the  World Commission on Culture and Development, chaired by Mr J. Perez de Cuellar, former Secretary-General  of the United Nations.
10.13 With regard to Major Programme Area IV: ‘Communication, information and informatics in the  service of humanity’, Indonesia is actively involved in several related fields. Our involvement is principally  guided by my govemment’s commitment to the implementation of the fme flow of information through press  fmedom and pluralistic media. Within this major programme area, Indonesia is an active participant in the  UNESCO-sponsored International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC), while it is also  a recipient of UNESCO support in the lïeld of informatics and computer sciences.
10.14 Within Major Programme Area IV the role of women is identifled as a key issue. Indonesia is proud to  report that within our school-based system of education the representation of women at both the primary and  secondai-y levels, mirrors their representation in the general population. At the tertiary level women are still  somewhat under-represented. However, we are committed to ensuring that women are equally represented  throughout the entire education system in an effort to create equal opportunities for bath genders. TO further  explore the role of women, Indonesia hosted in 1992 an international meeting on the role of women in the  informal sector, which was held in Bogor, West Java, in co-operation with UNESCO.
10.15 Mr President, Indonesia is particularly interested in Major Programme Area V: ‘Social and human  sciences: contribution to development, peace, human rights and democracy’. Human rights and democracy have  been important to Indonesia ever since the nation was created in 1945. For example, the Constitution of 1945  clearly spells out the rights of every Indonesian Citizen. With respect to education, the 1989 Law on Education  clearly states that education is the responsibility of government, community and family, and that through  education we endeavour to advance the intellectual life of all the people of Indonesia. Every Citizen has equal  rights to education regardless of creed, race, tribe, sex, etc. More recently, Indonesia has established, by  Presidential decree, a National Commission for Human Rights. The challenge for my govemment is not merely  to provide people with the opportunity to vote or to express themselves. These opportunities are already fully  guaranteed. Rather, the challenge is to reduce illiteracy and to mise people’s intellectual and other capabiiities  through education, SO that they cari truly exercise the human rights which they possess by law. As a partial  solution to this challenge, training programmes are implemented for all the people on the State ideology,  Pancasila, or five principles, which comprise: Belief in the One and Only God, Just and Civilized Humanity;  the Unity of Indonesia; Democracy Guided by the Inner Wisdom in the Unanimity Arising out of Deliberations  Amongst Representatives; and Social Justice for the Whole of the People of Indonesia, in an effort to truly unify  what is probably the most diversified country in the world.
10.16 Mr President, in concluding my remarks, 1 would like to assure you of the continuous support of the  Republic of Indonesia for the cause and ideals of UNESCO. However, as 1 mentioned earlier, Indonesia is very  much subject to the rapid changes taking place throughout the world, changes which Will increasingly shape  our future in the area of education and culture. Added to this is the reaI expectation that the next century Will  sec the full emergence of the Asia-Pacific region as a major centre of economic growth. It is for this  fundamemal reason that 1 would like to ask all UNESCO Member States to give due consideration to these  changes. In our view this means that bath the activities that UNESCO undertakes as well as the overall  management of the Organization should reflect the changing world context within which UNESCO operates.  Thank you very much.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Indonesian delegation and now cal1 on MS PachOn de Villamizar, Minister of  Education and head of the Colombian delegation, to take the floor.
(12.1) MS PACHON DE VILLAMIZAR (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad, President of the General Conference, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Director-  General of UNESCO, Ministers of Education, Ambassadors, delegates, ladies and gentlemen. First of all,  Mr President Sayyad, allow me to congratulate you in the name of my government on your appointment and to  wish this Confemnce every success.
(12.2) This twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of UNESCO is a special one for a number of  reasons: fiistly because the Organization wishes to interpret the desire for renewal and change which today, on  the thteshold of the twenty-first Century, is increasingly apparent throughout the world. This is confirmed by the  creation of the Forum of Reflection called to draw up proposals on the role of UNESCO in these times of  transition, characterized by ethnie and social contradictions, religious fanaticism, intolerance, and economic and  social inequalities. But, basically, the aim of the Forum of Reflection is to open up new paths and find new ways  of dealing with those problems of humanity which have not as yet found a definitive solution. The members of the  Forum of Reflection unanimously reaffirmed the relevance and appositeness for today of the original vocation of  UNESCO, defined in its Constitution: ‘to build peace, . . . founded . . . upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of  mankind’. They also affirmed that it is above a11 in education that a viable solution cari be found to the majority of  the problems confronting the world today.
(12.3) In accordance with the Forum’s proposals, the goal that everyone should have access to education, which  is regarded as a fundamental right, may be attained only by means of concerted policies divulged through the  mass media. Why were personalities such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Umberto Eco, Michel Serres and  MS Kapila Matsyayan called upon to reflect on the role of UNESCO in the years to corne despite the divers@ of  their intellectual activities? Because they and their colleagues in the Forum are also creative minds capable of  putting forward daring proposals. In their alarm cal1 concerning the serious consequences of intolerance,  destruction of the enviromnent, drug addiction and the loss of values, they appeal for concerted action, which  might appear Utopian if it did not have a direct bearing on the survival of the human species.
(12.4) And now 1 would like to digress for a moment to stress the importance of the role played by the  Executive Board at this crucial time for UNESCO and to draw attention to the brilliant and enlightened manner in  which its deliberations have been guided over these two years by its Chairperson, MS Bernard-Meunier, the first  woman to hold this position in the 48 years of the Organization’s existence. Thanks to the members of the  Executive Board, we now possess this prospect of modernization and change, which, under the general direction  of Federico Mayor, cari become a reality.
(12.5) For Colombia it has been a real privilege to follow the deliberations of this Forum on its own ground  and to witness the importance and seriousness of its work. My country supports this work and regards the  proposa1 to promote an extensive open education programme without frontiers as one of the primaiy aims of  UNESCO as one of enormous significance.
(12.6) This session of the General Conference is also special because it welcomes 17 new countries, thus  confirming its universal nature. The incorporation of these new States within the Organization is proof of  UNESCOs recognition of the political realities of the world and its willingness to work with them in the process  of their consolidation and development.
(12.7) This General Conference is also special because it believes that the current Director-General, Federico  Mayor, is the person best suited to lead this process of renovation and change in the years to corne, when we shall  have to confront greater and more complex challenges than ever before. Al1 the organisms of the United Nations  are in agreement concerning the terrifying forecast of overpopulation, illiteracy and misery.
(12.8) In Colombia, SO many years of violence generated by political sectarianism, drug trafficking, guerrilla  warfare and common delinquency have made us fully aware of the need to summon society as a whole to work for  peace. We identify with UNESCO and the Forum of Reflection in the sense that only through complete, global  education cari this aim be achieved. For this reason we are embarking upon an ambitious programme of education  for democracy as a fundamental component of complete education. We believe that access to scientific and  technological knowledge is not sufficient, and that it is necessary to introduce iraining in civic and ethical values,  in accordance with the Political Constitution of 1991 which opens up new channels for participation, develops  local democracy and makes society and the family jointly responsible, together with the State, for the educational  process. We believe that a vertical, authoritarian education produces citizens who are either passive or violent. In  order to change this state of affairs it is necessary to take democracy to schools, to make children and Young  people the protagonists of their own training and to make demccracy a way of life. Our Political Constitution and  the General Education Law create in Colombia the legal framework for the development of these aims, atrd the  Instituto para el Desarrollo de la Democracia Luis Carlos Galan, a public institution assigned to the Ministry of  Education, will be the body in charge of executing most of these programmes.
(12.9) Next year Colombia will be the host country for a new Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State, of  great importance for the process of integration being promoted by the countries of Latin America. Colombia Will  also be working intensely in the preparatory forums, particularly the intellectual forum and the forum of ministers  of education for which we have submitted education for democracy as the central theme.
(12.10) Mr President, delegates: if ail of us, students and teachers, parents and community leaders, governments  and international organizations alike, work together on the aims which have brought us here today, we shall be  embarking on the construction of a world in which equality of opportun@ Will allow us to live together in peace.  Thank you very much.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Colombian delegation and now cal1 on Mr Samphan Thongsamak, Minister of  Education and head of the Thai delegation, to take the floor.
14.1 Mr THONGSAMAK (Thailand) (Statement delivered in Thai; English translation provided by the  delegation):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Thai delegation and on my own behalf, may 1  take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election. We firmly believe that with yow  wisdom and experience, the UNESCO General Conference Will be conducted to a successful outcome.
14.2 Mr President, once again the General Conference provides all UNESCO’s Member States with a forum  for the exchange of views on programmes and activities in the fields of education, science, culture, social  science and communication, all of which are merely tools to be used in shaping our common goals of building  up peace in the minds of men. The programme and activities to be considered during this General Conference  Will end the last biennium of the third Medium-Term Plan. Preparations are therefore needed to be  simultaneously laid down for subsequent planning, 1 personally agree that such planning should not be outdated  by a limited period of time. We should, however, look further - to the trends mat Will guide us into the new  Century as well as the new millennium in the year 2000.
14.3 With regard to planning for the future, the Thai delegation would like to propose the identification and  selection of certain interdisciplinary and intersectoral themes as ‘tore projects’ which cari be extended into ail  areas of the different subjects. Some tore projects that we would like to submit to the consideration of the  meeting concem the development of human potential and the preservation of a sustainable enviromnent.
14.4 Mr President, in my capacity as Chairman of the Thai National Commission for UNESCO, 1 wish to  support UNESCO’s actions to decentralize to the extent possible. We must, however, bear in mind two crucial  issues: first, the need to hasten the change in roles and strengthen the effectiveness of the secretariats of ail
67    National Commissions; and second, the delegation of authority in decision-making on budget and personnel to  Regional Offices. Without concrete steps in these two directions, decentralization Will not be feasible. Thailand,  as host country for the largest Regional Office in Asia and the Pacifïc, sincerely hopes to sec immediate efforts  towards redressing and reforming existing situations.
14.5 Mr President, the Royal Thai Government agrees with other Asia-Pacific nations that our region has to  speak with a unifïed voice. Thailand in her humble role within subregional organizations such as ASEAN and  SEAMEO has done her best to foster bonds of friendship, while never overlooking the signiflcance of  interregional co-operation. Regardless of whether the links are at the regional or interregional levels, we offer  our local wisdom to the international community and request all nations to join us in fostering peace.
14.6 Mr President, distinguished delegates and observers, as host to the World Conference on Education for  Al1 in 1990, the Royal Thai Government has reaffmed its commitment to the goals unanimously stated at  Jomtien by extending the period of compulsory education from six to nine years. We must point out that within  the last few years 85.71 per cent of primary-school children have managed to continue their education into the  extended three-year lower secondary level, at a rate which actually exceeds that projected in the National Social  and Bconomic Development Plan. We hope that by me year 1995-1996, all Thai children Will enjoy the  privilege of nine-year basic schooling.
14.7 Despite impressive economic growth and quantitative educational development, we have never  forgotten the hundreds of disadvantaged children. Our democratically-elected govemment, giving priority to  development in remote rural areas, is determined to reach out to those hampered by economic and social  disadvantages, disabled children and street children who represent a negative outcome of rapid urban growth.  The Royal Thai Govemment therefore granted the highest amount of budget for the year 1992-1993 to the  education sector and this increase is likely to continue in ail future years.
14.8 The Jomtien Conference also pointed to the necessity of quality education and continuing education.  The Thai delegation wishes to stress the importance of awareness on the part of parents and the community of  their role in preparing pre-school children, physically and emotionally, for the compulsory education system. In  addition, parents and the community, together with schools, Will have to continue to create a sense of social  responsibility regarding the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage, which belong to all mankind.
14.9 Apart from learning skills to be acquired from formal schooling, the Jomtien Conference also proposed  life skills. In response to this new dimension of educational aims, the Ministry of Education of Thailand has  developed a pilot project which integrates working experiences into leaming schedules in order to provide  semi-skilled labour, offer training and build up positive attitudes towards work. The Thai delegates attending  the MINEDAP VI Conference in Kuala Lumpur last June submitted this project to the consideration of that  meeting and wish to reiterate their views to Member States from other regions attending this forum.
14.10 Mr President, with reference to science, me Thai delegation wishes to express support for the work of  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and to inform the meeting that our govemment has been  proud to host the WESTPAC secretariat which Will co-ordinate programme activities conceming oceanography  in the Asia-Pacific region. We look forward to celebrating the International Year of the Ocean proposed by the  United Nations, as we fully realize that ocean preservation is vital to the enviromnent and cari only be achieved  through international co-operation. The Thai delegation also wishes to draw the attention of the meeting to the  long-standing work of the Man and the Biosphere programme whose main activity, the international biosphere  reserve network, should be evaluated and developed as part of UNCED follow-up.
14.11 In a world of interdependence, the Thai delegation regrets that the reduced budget, resulting in the  termination of the programme on science, technology and society, Will affect the totality which bas integrated  and demonstrated science to be an essential part of social components and shown that no decision-making in  science is possible without social, cultural and ethical awareness.
14.12 The Thai delegation generally encourages cientific networks as an equitable and cost-effective means  of exchanging knowledge and information. Meanwhile, we would like to support certain centres whose work  lias proved to be outstanding. We believe that the Centre for Theoretical Physics at Trieste, which has opened  up many opportunities for Young physicists to acquire knowledge, deserves to be highly acclaimed.
14.13 Mr President, like many rapidly developing nations, Thailand is facing a crisis over the issue of how to  match harmoniously and balance modem technology in terms of ‘development’ with local wisdom which  contains culture, values and traditional ways of life. In this regard, we are pleased to have participated in the  World Decade for Cultural Development. Academics from a11 disciplines and those diectly concemed Will be
68    invited to join forces in preserving local culture. The Royal Thai Government has declared the year 1994 ‘Year  of Thai Culture’, designed to remind everyone of the cultural dimension in the midst of an ever-demanding  materialistic society. Furthermore, we are glad that international students have begun to interest themselves in  Thai hiitory and culture as they have been passed down from generation to generation. TO ensure a better  exchange of views among the international community, we request UNESCO’s support in this regard.
14.14 Mr President, the Thai delegation wishes to highlight the potential of allowing social science to clarify  interdisciplinary issues of a worldwide dimension, such as social and economic development, the expansion of  educational opportunities, equality for women and girls, and bioethics. We are therefore pleased that this  General Conference is to set up two bodies which Will aim at su& objectives, namely the Intergovernmental  Council of the ‘Management of Social Transformations (MOST)’ programme, and the International Youtb  Clearing House and Information Service (INFOYOUTH). Thailand would like to contribute to botb bodies by  serving on the council and hosting the regional centre for the youth information network.
14.15 Mr President, progress in communication technology has transported us into a society which needs to  quench its thirst for information and acquire more complicated data, as we realize that information is a real  dynamic force for social change. Thailand as a new member among the communication-oriented countries  desires to share in learning processes and to exchange experience with ail nations in this matter.
14.16 Mr President, the Thai delegation wishes to stress once again the faithful support we render to  UNESCO and would like to request all of us to continue co-operating in the development of human potential of  all kinds through the Organization, as - in the final analysis - this investment Will always prove to be most  profitable. Lastly, on behalf of the Royal Thai Govemment, allow me to express our gratitude to UNESCO and  its Member States that have joined in the nomination and celebration of His Royal Highness Prince Mahidol of  Songkhla, as an outstanding person of the world during the past biennium. Thank you.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Thai delegation and cal1 on MS Ryoko Akamatsu, Minister of Education, Science  and Culture and head of the Japanese delegation, to take the floor.
16.1 MS AKAMATSU (Japan):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies aud gentlemen, fast of ail, on behalf of the Government  of Japan, 1 should like to express my whole-hearted congratulations to you, Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad, on your  election as President of this session of the General Conference. 1 also wish to extend my deep appreciation to  the Executive Board and Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Director-General, and his staff at the UNESCO  Secretariat, for the strenuous efforts they have made for the organization of the present session. 1 also wish to  ktie this opportunity to extend a sincere welcome to the distinguished delegates from those countries that have  recently become Member States of UNESCO.
16.2 Mr President, during recent years, dramatic changes have taken place in the international arena. The  cnd of the Cold War is particularly noteworthy. These changes have brought about possibilities for new  developments in international peace, democracy and the protection of human rights. On the other hand,  however, mankind is still faced with many diificult problems, such as intensifying local conflicts and disputes  between different ethnie groups, poverty and famine in developing countries, and global environmental  problems. In co-operation with its Member States, UNESCO must urgently deal with the major issues facing  maukind from a long-range perspective and in accordance witb its own purposes and functions, as set forth in  its Constitution.  lu.3 TO this end, UNESCO needs to look straight at the issues with which the Organization is faced. First  of all, UNESCO is now confronted with a fundamental issue, that of defining its distinctive role and raison  d’être within the United Nations system. Secondly, UNESCO is confronted witb an old but still fresh issue, that  of how to ensure a proper balance between its functions as an organization for international intellect& co-  operation and its functions as an aid agency. Thirdly, UNESCO is now confronted with very serious financial  dil‘iiculties, as are many other United Nations agencies. 1 wish to stress that it is very important for all Member  Slates to consider this matter seriously and to fulfil their duties.
16.4 Mr President, the General Conference at its twenty-sixth session adopted an amendment to the  Constitution of UNESCO to change the composition of the Executive Board SO that members would no longer  be individuals but Member States. This amendment Will be put into effect immediately after the present session  of the General Conference, at the very’time when UNESCO is confronted with several major issues that 1 have  just mentioned.
16.5 As you may remember, UNESCO once experienced an unhappy period in the past, when the  Organization was subject to ideological conflicts and when criticisms were raised against its inefficient  management. In this connection, 1 deeply appreciate the endeavours of Mr Mayor, Director-General, and all  other UNESCO persons concemed towards reforming the Organization. 1 think, however, that there are still a  number of tasks to be dealt with. 1 am fully convinced that the amendment to the Constitution has provided  Member States with an opportunity to re-examine the raison d’être of UNESCO. 1 also hope that the newly  constituted Executive Board Will fully carry out its functions as a goveming body and Will do its best to solve  the issues and problems facing UNESCO in co-operation with the Director-General.
16.6 In order that UNESCO may further vitalize its activities and tope with the issues and problems facing  the Organization, it is essential to secure its universality. 1 am convinced that the first step towards the  restoration of its universality is to ensure that the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore retum to  UNESCO as soon as possible. Last month, 1 attended OECD’s third Informal Meeting of Ministers of Education  in Washington, D.C. On the basis of my previously mentioned conviction and in view of the progress of  UNESCO% various reforms, including the amendment to its Constitution, 1 requested Mr Riley, United States  Secretary of Education, and Mr Forth, British Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Schools, to co-operate  in ensuring tbe return of their countries to UNESCO. 1 hope that a11 the people concemed in Member States  and Mr Mayor, Director-General, Will make active efforts in further reforms of UNESCO and in other aspects  SO as to achieve the retum of the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore to UNESCO.
16.7 Mr President, one of the most importaut items on the agenda of the present session is the election of  the next Director-General. In this regard, on behalf of my government, 1 should like to congratulate you whole-  heartedly, Mr Mayor, on your nomination by the Executive Board as Director-General for another term.
16.8 In order to vitalize UNESCO and tope adequately with the various issues that 1 have mentioned, 1  should like to request the next Director-General to do his best with regard to the following five points:
16.9 Firstly, UNESCO should strengthen its intellectual leadership. In this connection, 1 expect that  UNESCO’s intellectual committees, including the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First  Century and the World Commission on Culture and Development Will provide relevant guidelines for bath  UNESCO and Member States. 1 am very pleased to say that Japan has participated in these intellectual forums,  and that my country is determined to co-operate actively witb UNESCO in enhancing its intellectuel leadership  by making further contributions to rhe human resource pool in the UNESCO Secretariat.
16.10 Secondly, UNESCO should develop high-quality projects reflecting the real needs of the countries  concemed. For this purpose, UNESCO is required to give full play to its intellectuel leadership. 1 should Iike to  add that, in order to carry out high-quality projects, it is essential that UNESCO concentrate on carefully  selected projects.
16.11 Thirdly, UNESCO should promote further decentralization. This effort is closely related to the  development of highquality projects. TO this end, it Will be necessary to transfer drastically part of tbe budgets  and staff of Headquarters to Regional Offices. It Will also be necessary to increase the discretional power of  Regional Ofl?ces regarding budgets and personnel affairs. In implementing decentralization policies, UNESCO  should not set up many small offices but strengthen those Regional Offices which are relatively large and  equipped with ‘critical mass’ in terms of experts and other staff and management capability.
16.12 Fourthly, UNESCO should raise its level of discipline regarding administrative and financial  management. There should be an appropriate mechanism for the control of administrative and Bnancial  discipline. My govemment Will actively co-operate in this regard.
16.13 Fifthly, 1 should like to draw your attention to the personnel policy of UNESCO. The Constitution of  UNESCO stipulates that, in appoiuting the staff of the Secretariat, consideration be given to the highest  standards of staff competence and to a wide geographical distribution of their countries of origin. 1 wish to take  this opportunity to express my eamest hope that UNESCO Will make further efforts to follow the desirable  range of quotas assigned to tbe respective Member States in recruitmg its staff members.
16.14 Allow me now, to express my views on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995, focusing on  those major programmes which 1 believe UNESCO should implement with a high priority.
16.15 Firstly, 1 should like to comment on programmes in the field of education. If the goal of ‘education for  all’ is to be achieved, it is essential for each country to set forth its definite policy objectives and to make all  possible efforts to achieve these objectives. The primary role of UNESCO should be to facilitate the efforts  made in each country. More specifically, UNESCO should actively carry out such activities as providing advice  to Member States regarding the formulation of government policies and providing assistance to Member States  regarding staff training, school curricula and the development of teaching materials.
16.16 Ever since International Literacy Year in 1990, in view of the importance of literacy education, my  government has been making a voluntary contribution to UNESCO every year in the form of funds-in-trust for  the eradication of illiteracy in Asia and the Pacifie. In addition, various regional co-operative programmes for  literacy promotion have been carried out by the Asia/Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO, Tokyo (ACCU),with  subsidies from my govemment. However, in spite of the great efforts made at the national and international  levels, literacy among women, who account for two-thirds of all illiterates in the world, is still insuflïcient. For  this reason, my government is now considering the launching of a programme to co-operate with the countries  of Asia and the Pacifie in the promotion of literacy among women.
16.17 Secondly, let me tum to the fïeld of natural sciences. My govemment highly values UNESCO’s  programmes in the natural sciences for their great contribution to the strengthening of ‘world partnership in  science’ based on co-operation among developed and developing countries. In particular, 1 bclieve that, in order  to deal with suc11 complex issues as the changing global environment and biodiversity, it is essential for  UNESCO to continue to utilize the multilateral scientific networks which it has developed It is also vital to  deal with these issues with comprehensive and interdisciplinary approaches. On the basis of this point of view,  my govemment is determined to continue to contribute to the development of partnership at the regional level  by participating in joint research and training programmes in the region of Asia and the Pacifie under  UNESCO’s science programmes such as the IOC, MAB, IHP and IGCP programmes.
16.18 Thirdly, 1 would like to tum to programmes in the field of culture. In order to secure cultural and  socio-economic development in the world and to bring about world peace, it is of great significance to  endeavour to preserve and inherit the cultural heritage of individual countries, to promote creative cultural  activities, to enrich the cultural identity of each country, and to promote cultural exchanges among different  nations.
16.19 In the field of culture, programmes for the preservation of the cultural heritage are particularly  important. For the past five years my govemment has made voluntary contributions to UNESCO amounting to  $14.5 million in the form of a trust fund for the preservation of the world cultural heritage. In 1993, the  govemment contributed $250,000 to UNESCO in the form of a trust fund for the preservation and promotion of  the intangible cultural heritage.
16.20 Regarding the Angkor monuments, my government would like to co-operate in the urgent  implementation of the preservation and restoration of these monuments, giving due consideration to the wishes  of the Royal Government of Cambodia, through the co-ordinating mechanism of international assistance agreed  upon by the participating countries at the Intergovernmental Conference for the Safeguarding and Development  of the Historic Area of Angkor, held in Tokyo on 12 and 13 October.
16.21 1 should like to avail myself of this opportunity to remind you that the prize-winning works of the  world photo contest, which was organized jointly by UNESCO and ACCU in the framework of the World  Decade for Cultural Development, are displayed on the ground floor of this building. An awards ceremony and  a reception Will be held tomorrow evening in the presence of Mr Mayor, Director-General. On behalf of  UNESCO and ACCU, 1 should like to extend an invitation to all delegates to attend the ceremony and the  recep tion.
16.22 Fourthly, 1 should like to say a few words about the strengthening of UNESCO’s collaboration with the  United Nations University. The University has completed its permanent headquarters building with a  contribution of $100 million from my govemment. Last February the University held an officiai inaugural  ceremony for this new building with bath Mr Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Secretary-General of the United Nations,  and Mr Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, in attendance.
16.23 It is my sincere hope tbat this event provided a good opportunity for strengthening co-operation  between UNESCO and the United Nations University. From this point of view, my govemment is planning to  contribute again this year to the funds-in-trust for joint research programmes by the two organizations. 1 should  like to take this opportunity to appeal urgently to the Member States of UNESCO to make more contributions to  the Univers@ Endowment Fund SO as to help improve the financial conditions of the University.
16.24 Today in Japan various reforms are being undertaken in the fields of education, culture and sports,  with the aim of creating a lifelong learning society. 1 recall that the concept of ‘lifelong leaming’ was originally  proposed in Learning fo Be, published by UNESCO in 1972. Liiewise, UNESCO is expected to make sound  contributions to the formulation of policies and strategies in the fields of education, science and culture in  Member States, bath developed and developing. 1 wish to affm that Member States and the UNESCO  Secretariat should make concentrated efforts to obtain such contributions of UNESCO.
16.25 In concluding, Mr Sayyad, President of the General Conference, 1 do hope that under your able  leadership the present session of the General Conference Will be successful, due to bath the devoted efforts of  Mr Mayor, Director-General, and his staff and the active co-operation of all participating Member States.  Thank you, Mr President.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Japanese delegation.  VISITE DE S. BXC. M. ABDUL SALA&I MAJALI, PREMIER MINISTRB DE LA JORDANIE  VISIT OF H.E. MR ABDUL SALAAM MAJALI, PRIME MINISTBR OF JORDAN  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR. ABDUL SALA&I MAJALI, PRIMER MINISTRO DE JORDANIA  BH3EIT EI’O I-IPEBOCXOAHTEJIbCIBA F-HA ABWJIA CAJIAAMA MAXWJIM,  IIPEMbEP-MPIHPICTPA HOP~AHPIEI  GJJYI r1Jj.j &J *$uI +dl +C +I iJL idldj  $@,,tj,@ ABDUL SALAAM AJALI~%j-F~ijj
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, the Director-General has left the hall in order to welcome the Prime Minister of  Jordan. 1 would ask you to remain in the hall for a minute or two SO that 1 cari welcome the Prime Minister. Thank  you very much. 1 declare the meeting suspended.  (The meeting was suspended at 4.20 p.m. and resumed at 4.25 p.m.)  (H.E. Mr Abdul Salaam Majali took his place at the rostrum)
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to welcome, on behalf of everyone present, His  Excellency Dr Abdul Salaam Majali, Prime Minister of Jordan, who is to address this Organization which has  been close to his heart and where he worked as an active member of the Executive Boatd between 198.5 and 1989  and participated in sessions of the General Conference. Dr Majali was professor at the College of Medicine and  founded the greatest medical establishment in the Middle East, the Royal Medical Institute in Amman. Dr Majali  has occupied many ministerial posts including those of heahh, education and training.
(19.2) In the international arena, he has participated in many conferences and organizations-and has chaired  the Council of the United Nations University, a function he still fulfils today. At the beginning of 1992, he headed  the delegation that took part in the peace negotiations seeking to introduce the values and principles for which  UNESCO stands into the search for peace and to establish the idea of peace firmly in people’s minds. In 1993,  Dr Majali was appointed Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Jordan, and the government embarked on the  business of planning for democratic elections along pluralistic, multi-party lines. On 8 November 1993, the first  elections to a democratic parliament in Jordan will be held. 1 welcome Dr Abdul Salaam Majali on everyone’s  behalf. We are very pleased that he is with us today. Mr Prime Minister, you have the floor.
(20.1) Mr MAJALI (Prime Minister of Jordan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, heads of delegation, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 would like fiist to thank UNESCO for granting me this precious opportunity to speak to you during  the General Conference. This opportunity is a great honour for me personally and for my country, whose  govemment and people spare no effort in their patient and hopeful search for peace. May 1 also point out that this  venerable Organization has made a great contribution to the promotion and advancement of human beings as the  centre and highest aim of development. For over 45 years now, UNESCO has succeeded in asserting itself,  developing activities that instil in human beings a deeper awareness of other people, of their own entinment  and also of their own role as creative agents. In SO doing, it has achieved a harmonious reconciliation between the  cultural heritage and requirements of the future.
(20.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are undoubtedly aware of the central place occupied by  education and culture in the life of nations. Education, recognized as one of the basic human rights, has become a  vital activity to which many nations allocate massive resources. Education is no longer a luxury, for we now  realize that illiteracy is a serious handicap ixnpairing a person’s ability to lead a dignified life within his own  c~munity or to interact with the larger world. Education, as you well know, has gone through various historical  stages. At the dawn of human civilization, when writing was extremely poor in signs and resources, the process of  transmittiug knowledge depended solely on the power of memory. One of the Pharaohs of Egypt is reported to  have killed a man who informed him that papyrus leaves could be used for writing. When asked why he killed the  man, the Pharaoh said: ‘His discovery was bound to destroy a most important human faculty, namely memory’.  This Pharaoh, who was intent on stopping human growth, could not adapt himself to the fact of evolution. After  the emergence of writing, education became more or less the monopoly of the élite, while the major@ of people  remained in the darkness of illiteracy and ignorance. Then came the twentieth century and the movement of  educational reform, which focused on extending the educational base and providing knowledge to ail capable and  desiring persons. T~US, from being the @ilege of the élite, education has becorne a right for everybody. This  quantitative transformation has been accompanied, however, by certain negative developments such as  diminishing educational achievement and a loss of persona1 contact between teacher and learner. The master-  disciple system was in fact an excellent means of consolidating the relation between the teacher and his students  and a unique channel for the accumulation of knowledge from one generation to another. There is now more  reason to wony about further detcrioration in the relation between teacher and learner, as a result of recent  scient& discoveries and the increasing reliance on machines and computers. This evolution is bound to weaken  human relations bath horizontally, that is to say among the students themselves and vertically, that is to say  between teacher and student. For this reason we need to look for ways and means of ensuring creativity and  excellence without thereby limiting education to the privileged few. An effective solution to this problem would  indeed require an innovative and creative effort.
(20.3) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, statistics provided by UNESCO, UNDP,  FAO, UNICEF, WHO, IL0 and other governmental and non-governmental organizations, give ample proof that  social conditions everywhere in the world still fall short of ensuring the most basic needs and necessities of  human beings. More than a billion people are still living below the line of extreme poverty; millions of children  still suffer from hunger to the point of starvation, while there are millions of other children subjected to slave  labour! In rural communities in many countries, a high proportion of the population do not yet possess the  minimal means which would enable them to benefit from local and international programmes aimed at such  communities. The Earth Summit, which was held in Brazil last year, clearly showed that poverty was the most  serious menace endangering man’s environment and wasting his resources. On the other hand, excessive  abundance and insatiable consumption in developed countries and in some developing ones are also endangering  the human environment. Al1 this gives us a clear warning that our planet is on the brink of a great disaster. We  are still spending 20 per cent of our annual production on weapons of mass destruction and prolonged wars at the  expense of projects aimed at protecting humanity from the dangers of poverty, starvation and backwardness. The  world’s education and cultural systems cannot remain indifferent to these disturbing issues which endanger the  survival of man on earth. It is now evident that the present state of disintegration and conflict and the vaunting of  a new international order cannot provide a basis for mutual interest or the best way out of the circle of dangers  besetting humanity. Our education systems stand in need of a new international educational culture that instils in  the Child from the earliest age an awareness of the prohlems facing the world and a deep respect for the rights of  other people to live in t&edom and dignity. And we may notice here that our international concern for such  fundamental issues as the environment, the rights of the Child, women’s rights and human rights lacks a common  moral basis or a common system of behaviour. That is why a11 international efforts and energies should be  mobilized to bridge the moral and behavioural gap between man’s fears and wishes on the one hand and his daily  acts on the other which are based on an acceptable moral foundation. The required moral concept should draw a  distinction between education as an instrument adapted to the social systems concerned and learning as a  spontaneous effort motivated by keen desire, firm conviction and clear-sightedness in the search for truth.  Education systems have until now given priority and prominence to teaching rather than learners. Hence the  recently proposed idea of ‘promising leadership’ which Will soon be approved and applied under the sponsorship  of the United Nations University. Its main purpose is to bring together promising Young leaders from ail over the  world representing a range of human activities within the framework of an institution that provides them with the  opportun@ for serious intellectual interaction with leaders in different countries with international agencies. In  this way the gap between the present and the future may be bridged in a11 walks of life.
(20.4) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, since the Second World War our region  has suffered from repeated destructive wars as well as the scourges of conflict, distord and instability. The Arab-  Israeli conflict has been studied hundreds of times in the United Nations and its various agencies; it has been the  subject of dozens of resolutions, none of which has actually been applied. More than once the wars afflicting the  region bave endangered international security and stability. This happened during the Suez War in 1956, the 1973  War, the invasion of Lebanon in 1982, the war between Iraq and the Islamic Republic of Iran and, last but not  least, the Gulf War - with all of its enormous damage and repercussions. It has become obvious that the  continuation of this state of affairs would lead to a worsening of the situation, wider conflict and an increasing  number of victims. Wars and conflicts have afflicted our region mughly once every seven years. Many calls for a  just and comprehensive solution to this fearful and bloody conflict and the containment of the enormous damages  which it has caused have gone unheeded. The drive for war and revenge and the voices calling for a solution to  the confhct by force of arms have prevailed over the voice of logic and reason. Happily, in the midst of this  destruction and rage, an historic opportunity has arisen, a glimmer of hope suggesting that it is possible to  negotiate instead of fighting and to move from the battlefield to the conference table and enlightened discourse.  The peace talks, which started two years ago in Madrid, gave the signal that our region was about to enter a new  stage in which swords would be turned into ploughshares, making the land green and peaceful. 1 have been given  the opportunity to participate in the peace talks and to head my country’s delegation to Washington. Jordan firmly  believes that peace is a noble pursuit and is the right and proper way of ensuring that a11 sides benefit,  irrespeclive of the nature, time and extent of their gains. Our conception of peace in Jordan is based on three  pillais: first, democracy and human rights; secondly, comprehensive security for the sake of a stable future as well  as a better and more dignified life; thirdly, regional co-operation on the basis of equality, mutual respect and  avoidance of hegemony and exploitation. We have always believed that no matter how great the disagreement and  no matter how protracted the conflict and strife, negotiations would not lead to peace unless there was a  willingness to negotiate and unless there was a firm conviction that peace would sooner or later prove beneficial  to a11 parties. 1 should like to quote at this point the Constitution of the United Nations Bducational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization, which stipulates ‘that since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the rninds of men that  the defences of peace must be constructed’. We have been through a long and difficult period during which we  could see how nascent hopes were soon swallowed up by pride, revealed in a Word or hvo or through an  intransigent attitude over an issue which, however important, should not have reduced to dust a11 the efforts that  had been made. Yet 1 have always been an optimist, as 1 believe that optimism, far from being momentary or the  outcome of ignorance, is a method for achieving concrete results. We went to the peace talks to achieve such  results and not to express received and fruitless attitudes. We sought peace rather than capitulation. Peace is the  way to achieve one’s rights whereas capitulation means surrendering one’s rights to others. It is now clear that  some progress has been made on the Palestinian-Israeli track and on the Jordanian-Israeli track. We hope that  positive results will be achieved on the other tracks as soon as possible. 1 must confess to you my concern that, if  this happens in the near future, the responsibilities and challenges of peace will prove no less serious than those  of war. In a climate of peace, it is natural that human appetites and expectations turn to construction, development  and to the achievement of a better life. The international community, concerned as it is with the consolidation of  security in our region, must, therefore, eusure the continuity and durability of the process of peace.
(20.5) Ladies and gentlemen, it will then be our duty to shoulder the heavy burden of creating a ‘cultum for  peace’ as an alternative to the culture of war which has dominated and haunted our life for almost 50 years. The  genemtions which have grown up in our region on the conviction that patriotism consists in hatred and revenge  have to accept from us, whole-heartedly, the logic, habits and benefits of pcace and the need to lay the  foundations of peace. This cari only be achieved through a tireless effort to construct the defences of the ‘culture of  peace’ in the minds of men and their leaders for the sake of a better and more secure lie. The greatest danger on  the path to peace is to fail when it has corne wlthin reach. Time is moving fast, and we, the peoples of the region,  have to engage in dialogue and coexist. We must act quickly and follow an effective plan, SO that the soi1 of peace  may be fertile and ptoduce the desired fruit. The acceleration of events does not allow us the luxury of waiting or  unhurried planning. What we need now is a plan of action which takes into consideration the basic issues and  efftciently draws up well studied and feasible programmes. Peace cari only be consolidated through the respect for  rights, especially the rights in the Holy of Holies, Jerusalem. Jerusalem is not a piece of land nor is it simply an  occupied territory. It is rather a place in which history has blended with geography; where the world’s  monotheistic religions beeame intertwined and whose soi1 bears the most sacred monuments of Muslims,  Christians and Jews. Each one of the three monotheistic religions cari devise a11 sorts of arguments to justify its  right to monopolize that piece of holy land with a11 its mosques, churches and synagogues, with a11 its holy figs  and olives. But the problem is much deeper than that. The decision adopted unanimously by the Executive Board  has demonstrated the increasing awareness of the need to find a satisfactory solution for the problem of  Jerusalem. This problem, sensitive as it may be, will not defeat the ingenuity of creative minds as long as the  solution takes into consideration the just rights of a11 parties and keeps Jerusalem as a City of peace, with its  verdant trees and streets and its high, shining domes, unharmed and immune from a11 danger. His Majesty Ring  Hussein of Jordan has called upon a11 Muslims of a11 denominations to enter into dialogue with one another in  order to define their responsibility for and their attitude towards Jerusalem and also to initiate a constructive  dialogue with Christians and Jews with a view to llnding ways and means which would guarantee the religious  rights of a11 parties, enabling each to worship the Ahnighty without harming the political and geographical rights  of the Arabs and the Palestinians in the occupied territory of Jerusalem. No problem however thorny, cari impede  the peace process as long as there is a good Will and a connnon resolution. It is tinte for the Middle East to  become a haven for peace and a luminous mode1 for the rest of the world, a place where people cari lead their life
77    in dignity, li-eedom and security. Peace is not a mere desire or longing but a sacrifice for the sake of a greater  benefit in a more stable and more fruitful life.
(20.6) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, peace is a fundamental condition for the advancement of the human  person and for the satisfaction of his needs in a world overtaxed by excessive demands. Wars cari only increase  man’s crue@ and poverty. Human society greatly needs to devote its energies to face the challenges of survival.  This cari only be achieved through the establishment of a healthy human community based on a moral  commitment to respect the rights of others in a free and dignified life. Thank you very much. 1 wish you a11  continued success in your endeavours.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, permit me on your behalf to thank Mr Abdul Salaam Majali, the Priie Minister  of Jordan, and to wish both him and his goveanment every success and the Jordanian people growth and  prosperity. Thank you very much.
(21.2) 1 will now adjourn the meeting while Mr Majali takes his leave.  (The meeting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.05 p.m.)  (MS Vaz da Silva, Portugal, takes the chair)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OBCYX~EHME BOflPOCOB OSwEfi rIOJIMTMKI4 (npoAon>Kemie)  (&L) LWI L.&JI Lzili.  ,g,iEirRR% ( @ )
22. La Présidente :  Nous reprenons nos travaux. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Boris Saltykov, ministre de la  science et de la politique technologique de la Fedération de Russie.
23.1 r-n T.CAJITbIKOB (PoccnficKaa <DeRepaqarr):  YBa>KaeMbIi? rOCIIO)JIïH npe)JCeflaTeJIb, )JaMbI H rOCIIOfla, IIpeJKRe BCerO II XOSy OT HMeHH  npaBwrenbcTBa POCCHBCKOH @enepaflIuï IIo3flpaBHTb r-Ha AxMeJ(a CafUIRa c Ii36paHneM Ha  BbrcoKEfi II~~T IIpegce~[aTensx KoH+epeHqEn.
23.2 renepanbnaa goH@epeaqm K>HECKO npoxog~~ B czoxHoe u 0TBeTcTBeHHoe npem  pa#IKaJIbHbIX nepeMerr KâK Ha MEIPOBOM ypoal.le, TaK JJ Ha ypOBEe OTfleJlbHbIX peWOHOB H  CTpaH.
23.3 POcCWf He CTaJIa HCKJII09eHHeM, 6onee TOrO, BO MHOrOM RBEJIaCb llepBOIIpHxIEHOfi STHX  H3MeHeHdi. IIafieBHe KOMh%yHIICTEf¶eCKOrO pe>KHMa OTHIORb ne npHBeJr0 K 0szRaeMohïy  TOp>I<eCTBy AeMOKpaTEH, ~60 J(eMOKpaTEH RBJIBeTCSI CJlO>r<HOii EI 9yBCTBE'TWbHOI? CHCTeMOti, nJIX  CTpOETWIbCTBa KOTOpOfi Tpe6yIoTcx BpeMH E OIJlOMHbIe YCEJIEII, npexqe Bcero B cowïa.nbHo-  KyJlbTypHOfi c@epe.
23.4 CeroflwI cabfa xE3Hb nonTsepxnaeT, wo nowpoenae fleMoKpamsecKoro o6rqecTsa -
3TO 6OJIeJHeHHbIM Ii flaxe ~pahfaTwlecKdi npoqecc, OCO6eHHO B yCJIOBH5IX PoccHtiCKOki  GeRepaqaE, npocTnpaIo~efcrr na OIJJOMHOfi TeppHTOpEH EBpOIIbI H ASIIH, JaCeJIeHHOfi  hfIIOrO¶HCJIeHHbIMH HapO!+iME c CaMO6bITEIOti KyJIbTJ'pOti E TpaflEJQfXMFf. BOT IIO¶eMy MbI BbICoKo  I[CHEM nogRep>I<Ky IOHECKO H ee I’eaepanbnoro @fpexwopa B nese ReMoKpaTwxecKEnr  IIpeO6pZI30BaHEii B HalLIeI? CTpaHe, EHTeJIJIeKTyaJIbHyKl H IIHyIo IfOMOIQb pe+OpMaM pOCCEEiCKoro
06pa30BaHFf.H, HayKll H COXpaHeHHfO KyJibTypbI.
06'beKTHBHoii EI@opMaqEH. 3~a~ oco6oe II HacTopo>KeBBoe OTBouIeHHe K ~TOI? npo6JreMe  MEPOBOI'O coo6aecTsa, R xoqy npnBecTa qnTaTy ~3 BeAaBaero DHTepBbm npe3EfleBTa  PoccHiicKoii @enepaQEYi IjOpHCa EJIbqEHa o~(~ofï 03 HaIIIEx ra3eT. OH sassan: "3aKoH 0  MaCCOBOfi EH@OpMaqEH B POCCLIH )foJDKeH EI 6ygeT ECIIOJIJDITbCII B IIOJIHOM o6'beMe, flOIIyI.IJeHHbIe  ECIIOJIHHTeJIIIME nepera6bI MbI HCLIpaBEIM, cBo6oRa IIpeCCbI RJIII MeHII ClWIb >Ke Ba>KHa, KaK H  AJIX Bac, KaK H RJI-rra Bcex I'paxqaH PO~CHE".
3++eKTEIBHOrO Y¶aCTEH B IIpOI-paMMEiX KNSECKO, BpenocTaarrxeT ceronm HMeIownecs  BOJM~>KHOCTB Rn5I pea.nInaqInI 0cHoBBbu npoeKToB OpraBfï3aqInf.
23.7 B qeJIOM MM IIOJ(JJep~EBaeM IIpOrpaMMbI E RpOeKT 6Ion>KeTa, lIpe@TaBJIeHHbIe  reHepaJIbHbIM REpeKTOpOM, KOHKpeTBbIe npeflao>KeHm 6ym~ BHeceHbI HaME Ha 3acenaHswx  KOMEITeTOB EI KOMHCCIIJ?.
23.8 3a nsa rolla, nporrrenuusx nocne RBajqqaTb ruecToii ceccnE l?eaepa.nbHoii KoB+epeHqEH,  MEP He CTBJI CIIOKOiiHeii, XOT5I RJIH 6oJIbIUBHCrBa 3eMJIHH OH CTaJI cBo6oflBee E 6e3onacHee.  OcnaGJra yI'pO3a MaCIIITa6Hoti HnepHOii BO&lbI, HO pacTeT ¶ECJIO IIOTeHqHâIIbHbIX o6naAaTenefi  finepHor0 opyxwr. OKperr.na conaRapBocTb MIïpoBoro coo6IqecTsa B II~OTI~BOCTO~HBE arpeccns  MaCCOBbIM HapyIIXeHIUIM IIpaB PWIOBeKa 0 HaaI.IOHaJIbHbIx MeEIbIIIHHCTB. C WyI'Oii CTOpOHbI, B
3TE >Ke TOflbI pa3rOpCJIECb HOBbIe KOHC@IIKTbI Ha 3TBWIeCKOfi H KOH+CCCEOHa.JIbHOfi OCHOBe. K  TpaJfHqHOHHbIM I'IpO6JIeMaM ¶eJxOBe¶eCTBa, TaKHM, KaK ~ehïorpac@secKd B3pbIB. yxynrner=ïe  COCTPOIIHEH oKpy>ItaroIqeii cpegbr, HaIqeTa H HerpaMoTBocTb, TeppOpH3M Il HapKOMaHESI,  AO6aBEJICsI HOBbIfi BCeMEpHbIii "QeHHOCTHbIfi' KpIIJEC, CTaBIId rJIO6aJIbHOii IIOJIHTFIeCKOfi  npo6JreMoti AaIIIerO BpeMeHH.
9eM TpawqHoBHoe pasfleneaae huïpa Ha Cesep ~z Dr. CyqecTByeT 0BacHocTb Tore, wo  HeIIOHEMaHEe Me>KJJy 60raTbIMa E 6enHbIMH J.(OCTBrHeT TaKOii TO¶KH, KOrRa e)JFIHCTBeHHOa  +OpMOfI 06IIieHFuI MOJKeT CTaTb OCTpbIti KOHC@IEKT KaK B MaCIHTa6aX BCerO MHpa, TaK 0 B  OTfieJIbHbIX perEOHaX.
23.10 Heo6xogBMa pa3pa6oTKa HOB0ti KoHqeJIIqYra IIOCI'KOH@pOHTaqIfOEHOrO MapoBoro IIOpSIflKa.  B OCHOBy 3TO$ KOHIJCIII(IIE, y¶IfTbIBaIO~eii IIOJIII4eHTpE3M IIJIaHeTbI II CaMO6bITBOCTb cO4Eo-  KyJIbTypHbIX CECTeM, JJOJIJKHa 6bITb IIOJIO>r<eHa Ep;eSI, qeHTpaJIbHa5-ï B YCTaBe DHECKO, a  EMeHHO TO, ¶TO ~JlHTCJIbHbIfï MEp AOJI>KeH 6a3EpOBaTbCII Ha EHTWIlIeKTyaJIbHOfi 0 HpaBCTBeHHOti  coJuigapBocTE 4enoBeqecTBa.
23.11 Tenepb 0 seqax 6onee npo3aFIecKnx, OT KoTopbIx, BlIpOqeM, 3aBIICET 3@C@KTEBHOCTb  ReHTeJIbHOCTH HaILIeYi OpranEsaqEn. KaK E!sBecTBo, (PEHaHcoBoe BoJIo>KeHEe K)HECKO  OCTaBJISIeT >Ke.JIaTb JIyWIeI.0. )@SI HaIIIefi CTpaHbI npo6JreMa paqIïOHaJIbHOr0 ECIIOJIb30BaHEB  CpenCTB, IIOJIe3HaR OTAaW OT IIpOE3BeReHHbIX 3aTpaT EMeeT OI'pOMHOe 3HaPeHHe. Y¶acTHHKB  FeHepaJIbHOii KOH+epCHI@H flOJI>KHbI C03HaBaTb, KaK HeBpOCTO AaeTCH ceropa PoccHH  IIOraIJIeHFIe 3af(OJI>KeHHocTB B 6Kqxe’r lOHECK0, KoTopoe MbI, T~M Be Meaee, HaMepeBbI  IIOCJIeAOBaTWIbHO 0CyIQeCTBJWI.b B COOTBeTCTBEE C IIpEBBTbIME 06SI3aTeJIbCTBaME.
23.13 MbI, B 9acTHocTII, IIpEBe'ICTByeM KOHKpeTBbIe YCEJIEII reHepaJIbHOr0 REpeKTopa,  HaIIpaBJIeHHbIe Ha yKpeILJIeHIIe (PEHaHCOBOfi JQWqF.IIIJIIIHbI, yCTpaHCHEe E3JIEIIIeCTB 6IOpOKpaTEE B  paMKaX IQ'JIeBOrO 6IoJpKeTa OpraHFIJaqHE, KOHqeHTpaIfEIO yCEJIEii Ha IIpEOpETeTHbIX  HaIIpaBJIeHESIx, 3HepIWIHOe IIpHBJIe¶CHHe BHe6IO~~eTHblX CpeACTB.
23.14 HeoGxo@iMo Tame ~JI~ULUWL B3awofle&znwe IOHECKO c A~~~IME OpraHWaqiIRMa  CIW'IZMbI OOH, MHOrEe IIpOrpaMMbI KOTOpbIX IIepeKJIEKaIOTCir C IIpOrpaMMaMH EaIIIeii  OpraHE3aqEH, C TOM 'iTo6bI HCKJIIOPHTb Ry6JIElpOBaHEe yCEIJ& 0 CpeJ&Yl%.
23.15 MbI ropsso QNïBeTCTByeM YCHJIESI pyKoBoRcTsa K)m=0 no BoccTaHoB.neBBK)  yHHBepcanbBocTE OpraHH3aqHH, 110 Bo!mparqemro B Hee CIIIA, BenmoGpmamm, Cmranypa, a  Tame IIpHHIITEIH) HOBbIX WIeHOB.
23.16 3Eecb Hemm He cKa3aTb 06 ouaczxocm Heonomrrmaqm IOHECKO. Poccm BbwrynaeT  IIp0Tr.i~ HCIIOJIb3OBaHEH aBTopETeTa IOHECKO B peI.ueHEE npo6neM, He CBH3aHBbIX c ycTaBEoii  ~e%IWIbHOCTbIO HaIIIeii OpraHH3aqHH. POCCHII He MO>KeT COrJIaCETbCII C CO3)JaHEeM E3rOeB B  MeXQyHapOAHOM IJ'MaHHTapHOM, KyJIbTypHOM, IWIWIJIeKTyaJlbHOM COTpyflHE¶eCTBe, 'RM 60JIee B  paMKax KHJXKO.
23.17 ~o)JJI&iBHarr yHEBepcaJIbHocTb - 3~0 He TonbKO CoCTaB y¶acTHHI(oB OpraBHJaqEE, 3~0  cogep>I<aBne ee nporpaMMHoi2 ~esrrenbBoc~, o6ecneneBHe cnpaBenJnn3oro flocryna K HeH zi  afleKBaTHoti oT,QasE )JJIR y¶aCTHEKOB coTpymEsecTsa. BOT noqeq Bac cepbesrso ~~CIIOKOET  coKpaqeHHe Hcnozb30BaBm pyccKor0 E HeKOTOpbIX APyrEX IIJbIKOB, yMeHbII.leHEe IIOTOKa  ny6mmaI& IOHECKO B POCCEIO H npynie cTpaBbI, coKpaqeHBe ¶ncna ~E~JIHOT~K-  JJenoJaTapEeB JwrepaTypbI l0HJXKO B rocyfiapcTBax - PJleHax OpraHH3aqHH 6e3 Y¶eTa  pa3MepoB EM T~~~ETO~HE, CocTaBa E 9HcJIeHHoCTH HaCeJIeHEfi. r0~0pII 06 OCHOBHbIX o6nawsx  ~e5rlenbHocTE IOHECKO, XOTWI 6bI nonsepKHyTb, 9~0 MM nomep>r<Hsaehf pa6oly no  COBepLueHCTBOBaHHH) MeTo~oB 06pa3oBaHEsi, Me>KYHHBepCHTeTCKOe coTpyJ@IE¶ecTBo, npoeKT  EBpOJIHHrBayHH, co3xaHEe Ka+eRp IOHECKO H pa3BETHe HaqEoHaJIbHofi IItKoJIbI.  ,
23.18 B o6nacm Hayxm IIpaBH'IWIbCTBO POCCHfiCKOZi @eflepaIJHE C¶ETaeT IIpEOpH’ETHHM  pa3BETEe TaKEX KpyIIHbIX Me>KlIpaBHTeJIbCTBeBBbIX IlpOIJXiMM II0 @yHRaMeHTaJIbEbIM HayKaM,  KOTOpbIC 5IBJIBIOTCX EHTeI'pHpyIOI.IJBME B C@epe TaK Ha3bIBaeMofi "me@SCieBCe", O¶eHb 6onbmofi  naym. S-0, BanpaMep, EccnefloBaBne MEpoBoro oKeaHa, rJIO6aJIbHbIe E3MeHeHHII KJIHMaTa,  CoxpaHeHHe 6Eopa!moo6pasm E flp.
23.19 POCCEBCK~SI HayKa o6JragaeT conE~Hbi&ï IIOT~H~H~JIOM B ~IIOMSB~T~IX o6sacTIIx E rOMBa,  KaK Ii paHee, fleJIHTbCa 3JJeCb CBOHME IIO3HâHEXME C MIipOBbIM coo6ryecTBoM.
23.20 2 XoTeJI 6bI BbIcKa3aTb IreKoTopyfo o3a6oneHHocTb B CBX~E c IIpe~BapElWIbHbIM  perueBEeM CeKpeTapnaTa 0 npeKpaweBaa BporpahtMbI "HayKa, TexHHKa E o6r.qecTBo". Qeno B  TOM, 4~0 B EBpone E B CCBepHOYi AMepHKe, 51 He roBopw 0 CTpaHax 6bIBJIIero CCCP, 3Ta  BporpardMa spe3BbInaMBo BaxHa, E npeqe Bcero flaa pesKor0 nofl%eMa IIOIIyJUIpE3aqHE  Haysaoro 3HaHn CeroflHx, BbI 3HaeTe, cpeflcTBa MaccoBoii a@opMaqm (P0pMEpyIoT cyry6o  MaTep~anmmf~ec~oe oTBoI.ueBHe Moaogemii K opp~aroïqehfy ~qy, npEflawrca 3a6BeHEIo  AyxoBHbIe qeHBocTEI 9enoBePecTBa.
23.21 Poccm npEflaeT oco6oe 3HaqeHHe CoxpaBeHnIo KynbTypBoro E npEpo~Hor0 HacJIe~Es, B  TOM UECJIe B KIepEOJJ BOOpY>I<eHHbIX KOIi+IEKTOB. M~I IIpEBeTCTByeM peI.UeHEe reEepaJIbHOro  RnpeKmpa II0 c03xaBBIO qewrpa coxpaHeBm KyJrbTypHOrO riacJxexE.sr. MbI C¶ETaeM Ba>KHbIMH  IIpO6JIeMbI COXpaHeHESI HeMaTepFWUIbHOti KyJIbTypbI, pa3BETBe MHOrOO6pa3HII caMO6bITHbIX  KyJIb'IJ'p, B TOM 4ECJIe CJIaBXHCKOii KyJIbTypbI.
23.23 BO Bcex pa3flenax nporpaMMbI Ha 1994-1995 rr. Bac EHTepecyIoT TaK)Ke MepoIIpWITWi  II0 IIOXrOTOBKe KaflpOB, o6Meay IICpefiOBbIM OIIbIMM E TeXHOJIOrEHME, JIO yJIySrUeHHI0  lIOJIO>KeHHtI >KeIimH E MOJIOxeXE.
23.25 YCieqeH, wo IOHECKO npeoRoxeeT IIpO6JIeMbI. KoTopbIe MemaroT ceroxBx ee  IIJIOROTBOpHOE? pa6o%, E BHeCeT Cy4eCTBeHHbIii BKJIax B CO3&iHEe HOBOrO o6pa3a MEpa - MEpa,
(23.1) Mr B. SALTYKOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam Rresident, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Government of the Russian  Federation, 1 would like to congratulate Mr Ahmed Sayyad on being elected to the high office of F’resident of the  Conference.
(23.2) The General Conference of UNESCO is taking place at a difficult and critical time, one of radical  changes both for the world as a whole and for individual regions and countries.
(23.3) Russia is no exception, indeed it is the major cause of many of these changes. By no means has the fall  of the communist regime led to the expected triumph of democracy, since democracy is a complex and sensitive  system, the construction of which demands time and enormous effort, particularly in the social and cultural  spheres.
(23.4) Today, actual experience is demonstrating that the construction of a democratic society is a painful and  even a dramatic process, particularly in the circumstances of the Russian Federation, which covers a huge area in  Europe and Asia and where many different peoples live with their own particular cultures and traditions. That is  why we value highly the support of UNESCO and its Director-General in the democratic transformations in our  country and the intellectual and other help given to the reforms in Russian education, science and the preservation  of culture.
(23.5) The Government of the Russian Federation confirms its attachment to the observance of basic human  rights, including freedom of the press and the right to mceive unbiased information. Being aware of the particular  and cautious attitude of the world community to this problem, 1 would like to quote fiom a recent interview given  by the President of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, to one of our newspapers. He stated: ‘In Russia the law  on the mass media must and will be applied in its entirety; any excesses committed by those applying this law  will be amended by us. The freedom of the press is just as important for me as it is for you and for a11 citizens in  Russia’.
(23.6) Equally, Russia is mobilizing its intellectual potential to participate effectively in the programmes of  UNESCO and is today providing the resources it has available for the completion of the basic plans of the  Organization.
(23.7) We fully support the Draft Programme and Budget presented by the Director-General and we will put  forward firm proposals at the meetings of the committees and the commissions.
(23.8) During the two years that have passed since the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference, the  world has not become a quieter place, although for most people on the planet it is now a freer and a safer place.  The threat of large-scale nuclear war has diminished but the number of potential possessors of nuclear weapons is  on the increase. Solidarity in the world community in opposition to aggression and to the mass violation of the  rights of people and national minorities has grown in strength. On the other hand, during these years new  conflicts have broken out for ethnie and religious reasons. TO the traditional problems of mankind, such as the  population explosion, the worsening state of the enviromnent, poverty and illiteracy, terrorism and drug addiction,  a new universal crisis ‘of values’ has been added, which has become the political problem of our time throughout  the world.
(23.9) The partitioning of the world today into two separate halves presents a more complex phenomenon than  the tmditional division of the world into North and South. There is a danger that misunderstanding between rich  and poor may reach such a point that the only form of contact possible is a bitter conflict both in the world as a  whole and in specific areas.
(23.10) A new formula needs to be worked out for the post-Cold-War world order. At the root of this formula,  which takes into account the polycentrism of the planet and the unique nature of social and cultural systems, there  needs to lie the idea central to the Constitution of UNESCO, that lasting peace must be based on the intellectual  and moral solidarity of mankind.
(23.11) Turning to a more mundane issue, on which, however the efficiency of our Organization’s activity  depends, we a11 know that the financial position of UNESCO leaves something to be desired. For our country, the  problem of the rational use of resources, a profitable return from expenditure, is extremely important. The  participants in the General Conference need to be aware how difficult it is for Russia to pay off its debts to the  UNESCO budget; we nevertheless intend to do this systematically in accordance with the obligations we have  taken on.
(23.12) Russia actively supports the efforts of the UNESCO leadership and its Director-General to reform the  Organization and adapt it to the conditions of the post-Cold-War world.
(23.13) In particular we welcome the specific efforts of the Director-General directed towards strengthening  fïnancial discipline, eliminating excessive bureaucracy within the framework of the Organization’s zero-growth  budget, concentratmg effort on priority issues and actively trying to attract extra-budgetary resources.
(23.14) It is also essential to improve co-operation between UNESCO and other organizations in the United  Nations system, many of whose programmes have much in common with the programmes of our Organization, in  order to eliminate duplication of effort and resources.
(23.15) We warmly welcome the efforts of the UNESCO leadership to renew the universality of the  Organization, bring back the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapom to the Organization and welcome  new members.
(23.16) Here something needs to be said about the danger of the neopoliticization of UNESCO. Russia is  against the use of UNESCO’s authority in resolving problems which are not linked to the constitutional activity of  our Organization. Russia cannot agree with the creation of pariahs in international htmranitarian, cultural and  intellect& co-operation, all the more SO within UNESCO.
(23.17) Genuine universality is not only a question of the body of participants in the Organization; it is also the  content of its programme activities, the guarantee of equitable access to them and adequate returns for the  participants in co-operation. That is why we are seriously alarmed at the reduction in the use of Russian and some  other languages, the decrease in the flow of UNESCO publications into Russia and other countries and the  reduction in the number of depository libraries for UNESCO literature in the Member States of the Organization,  with no account being taken of the size of their territory, make-up or population. On the subject of the main fields  of UNESCO’s activity, 1 would like to stress that we support the work on the improvement of the methods of  education, inter-university co-operation, the Eurolinguauni project, the creation of UNESCO chairs and the  development of education for national minorities.
(23.18) In the field of science, the Government of the Russian Federation considers that priority should be given  to the development of those major intergovernmental programmes on the basic sciences, which are an integral  part of so-called ‘megascience’, Le. very large-scale science. For example, this includes research into the world’s  oceans, global changes in the clin-rate, the preservation of biodiversity and SO on.
(23.19) Russian science has solid potential in the areas mentioned and is ready, as before, to share its  knowledge with the world community.
(23.20) 1 would like to express a certain anxiety in connection with the preliminary decision of the Secretariat  concerning the discontinuation of the programme ‘Science, technology and society’. The fact is that in Europe and  North America, not to mention the countries of the former USSR, this programme is extremely important, mainly  because of the considerable expansion of the popularization of scientific knowledge. You know that today the  mass media are shaping a profoundly materialistic attitude in Young people towards the world around them and  the spiritual values of mankind are being consigned to oblivion.
(23.21) Russia attaches particular importance to the preservation of the cultural and natural heritage, including  during periods of armed conflict. We welcome the decision of the Director-General to create a centre for the  preservation of the cultural heritage. We consider the problems of the preservation of intangible culture and the  development of the diversity of unique cultures, including Slavonie culture, to be important.
(23.22) The work of UNESCO must promote the solution of problems between different nations and national  minorities and help to prevent the ‘brain drain’, which has today assumed alarming proportions even for Russia.  As before, this is a pressing problem for the developing world and for the countries of Europe.
(23.23) In a11 areas of the programme for 1994-1995 we are interested in schemes for training key personnel,  exchanging up-to-date experience and technology, and improving the situation of women and Young people.
(23.24) 1 would like to conclude by publicly expressing our support for the re-election of the Diictor-General,  Federico Mayor, for a second term and to thank him for his unfailing and selfless efforts in recent years.
(23.25) 1 am convinced that UNESCO will overcome the problems which are today hindering its succe~sful  work and that it Will make a vital contribution to the creation of a new world - a world based on high morality,  democracy and human values. Thank you.
24. La PRESIDENTE : Je remercie le chef de la délegation de la Fedération de Russie et je donne maintenant la parole à  S. Ext. Mme Aida de Fishman, ministre de la culture, de la jeunesse et des sports du Costa Rica.
(25.1) MS DE FISHMAN (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam F’resident, Madam Chairperson of the Bxecutive Board, Mr Director-General, Your  Bxcellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Costa Rica delegation extends it warmest congratulations to His  Bxcellency Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad, who has been most deservedly elected to direct the deliberations of this  General Conference. We should also like to take this opportun@ to recognize tbe work carried out by the  Director-General in order to comply with the basic aims of this Organization.
(25.2) Madam Presidenf over the last few years we have witnessed profound changes in the international  scene. However, now that the optimism of 1989 and 1990 has passed, the reality which confronts us differs  greatly from what we would wish it to be. As Walker points out in his/her book ‘One World, Many Worlds’, ‘this  order is not the same as peace and less still is it synonymous with justice. It simply means a different form of  violence’. When we countenance situations such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia in hunger-stricken Africa,  tbe Third World which is the victim of poverty and backwardness, in an increasingly polluted planet, it is difficult  to be optimistic. However, in global terms, our earth is still a fecund world, directed by a species with infinite  creative possibilities. For this reason it is incredible that, when we have tbis endowment of vital wealth,  knowledge and resources, we lack the Will to mobilize, distribute and share it.
(25.3) How cari true peace be attained? The bitter experiences of the past and the realities of the present have  shown us that peace is not simply a matter of cesse-fires or treaties. Peace, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,  must be based on a different kind of reality, on open horizons, on giving men, women, boys and girls the chance  to develop physicalIy, intellectually and spiritually.
(25.4) Madam President, 1 corne from a peaceful counhy, with a multi-party democracy, rights and freedoms, a  country with a profound social conscience, which lives in harmony with itself and its neighbours and which day  by day consolidates its institutional framework. In my country we have no armed forces. We have replaced them  with an army of teachers and students. Our arsenals are stocked with pencils and books and notebooks. We have  learned that through education we consolidate the pillars of democracy and peace which we love SO much, and  that, by continuing along this patb, we corne closer to achieving our desire for development and justice.
(25.5) In 1986 we held the first centenary of compulsory, free education. Today Costa Rica, with a population  of 3 million, has nearly 700,000 students in primary and secondary education; there are 22 State and private  universities and 95 per cent literacy. But we are not interested merely in educational statistics. Dr José Rizal, a  national hero of the Philippines, once said ‘that to foretell the destiny of a nation one had to open the book which  conditions its past’. My country is proud of having many pas&., of being the fruit of a vigorous cultural mix and  believes that consequently its destiny, like that of many otber States in America and the world, will also be a  multi-faceted one. The various cultural roots of Costa Rica have fused into one vigorous multi-coloured bole. At  one and the same time we attribute particular importance to the conservation of the cultural wealth of each of  tbese primitive roots and tbe defence of minority identity and rights. In this regard, the Government of Costa Rica  has developed wide-reaching programmes for the preservation of indigenous languages and traditions. Within the  framework of the present Conference, Costa Rica has put forward a draft resolution aimed at declaring traditional  languages the heritage of humanity, and from this platform 1 am honoured to ask the distinguished delegations to  support this initiative.
(25.6) Along with protection for cultural diversity, one of the aspects to which we attribute great importance is  the achievement of full integration of women in society, on an equal footing with men. Women have had the vote  in my country for more thau 50 years and they enjoy equal rights, but we recognize that in practice this equality is  not always fully respected. In this regard, we believe that education and training play a decisive role, and  consequently we seek to maffirm with concrete measures the right of women to study and work. For this reason  we support all UNESCO initiatives directed towards this aim. We are also expending considerable energy on non-  forma1 education for children and Young people, promoting their active participation in the cultural life of the  community, tbrough dance programmes, visual arts, sports and particularly reading and music programmes. ‘Why  have tractors witbout violins?‘, said José Figueres, ex-President of the Republic, with a view to laying the  foundations for the significant musical development of that time. Today those children who belonged to the first  youth symphony orchestra are members of tbe national symphony orchestra and are the new teachers in the school  of music for the children and Young people of our nation. We stimulate reading in shared programmes with sister  countries in Central America and we try to implant in boys and girls the idea that books are friends, inviting tbem  to sow letters along with us and reap dreams. Love of peace and faith in democracy are also an integral part of  Costa Rican life from childhood. For instance, we hold children’s elections on the same day as national elections,  SO that children will develop an awareness of their future civic duties and their right to elect tbose who govem  them.
(25.7) The challenge of environmental conservation is another of the most important components of our  govemment action. Despite the small size of Costa Rica, 25 per cent of its territory is made up of national parks,  reserves and protected areas. We believe it is fundamental to instil in children from the tenderest age a profound  sense of harmony with the environment, SO that when they grow up they cari make an active contribution to its  conservation. This same spirit underlies the proposal which we have put before this General Conference to exhort  Member States to set up, in times of peace, mechanisms whereby voluntary ecological work of equal duration may  be regarded as equivalent to compulsory military service. Costa Rica, with 45 years’ experience without an army,  considers that in tintes of peace the contribution which Young people cari make to environmental conservation is  also decisive for the survival of humanity.
(25.8) Madam President, the positive aspects of Costa Rican life do not blind us to the social and economic  problems which beset us and which we share with many otber countries in Latin America and the world. We a11  face poverty, unemployment, juvenile delinquency, dmg addiction and drug traffrcking. We face limited market  niches for our products, and serious difficulties stand in the way of the realization of our aspiration for material
85    and cultural development. Aware of its position as a developing country, Costa Rica also raises its voice to  advocate a more balanced, united and co-operative world, capable of solving its difficulties in peace: a world free  from famine and violence. T%e end of the Cold War must set tbe climate for the establishment of an order of  wncerted action, justice and working in harmony. In order to achieve this aim, we have to give the international  organizations their rightful place. The aim which directs the work of UNESCO is inscribed due to its idiosyncmsy  in the life of Costa Rica, tbat is to say to contribute to peace and security by promoting education, science, culture  and communication. UNESCO is the international organization which promotes most steadfastly the struggle to  eradicate illiteracy in tbe world, and to lay the foundations of tolerance and democracy among tbe Young. Next  year the Organization celebrates 50 years of constant hard work. Five decades of work have served to contribute  towards setting humanity on the path towards the peace which we so‘desire. Spurred by that same spirit, by that  living sense of universality, in February of next year Costa Rica Will host the session of the World Commission on  Culture and Development set up within UNESCO in 1992.1 am pleased to reiterate our invitation to all Member  States to attend on this occasion.
(25.9) Madam President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. We face a world overshadowed by  situations of confrontation and violence. Some of these shadows have dispersed but many people continue to live  in equally sombre circumstances. For their sake, and for the future of our sons and daughters, which we a11 wish  to be bright and happy, the work of organizations such as UNESCO must be untiring and fecund; it must embrace  an ever-growing number of fields and more activities with an apostolic spirit, a spirit of mission and vocation. All  those who, in one way or another, are privileged enough to w-operate in the fulfilment of the noble aims of  UNESCO, must take up the beautiful teaching of a Spanish poet and scientist, Federico Mayor, today Director-  General of this Organization, and make tbem the heart and sou1 of our daily labour  ‘1 shall raise my voice  Each morning  Each evening and  Each night.  Unceasingly  my cry will resound  in the ears of hierarchs  until the whole world  is filled  with love.’  Thank you very much.
26. La PRESIDENTE :  Je remercie le chef de la délegation du Costa Rica. Je passe maintenant la parole a S. Ext. Mme Claire  Angelides, ministre de l’éducation de Chypre.
27.1 MS ANGELIDES (Cyprus):  Madam President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, on behalf of my delegation, allow me fnst to congratulate our President on his election.  His experience of our Organization and his wisdom and moderation guarantee that the proceedings of our  Conference Will be conducted in a spirit of constructive, democratic dialogue and intellectual co-operation. We  wish him every success.
27.2 Mr Director-General, on the eve of your second term, let me express our satisfaction with the notable  achievements of your fïrst ter-m, and the ambitious projects your second term promises us. Our wishes for  success in your courageous efforts are accompanied by a pledge of our continuing full co-operation in the years  to corne towards reaching the noble objectives of our Organization.
27.3 1 also wish to welcome the arrival of the new Member States which have joined UNESCO in the past  two years. We are looking forward to their intellect& contribution and express once again the wish, shared by  all of us, for the retum in our midst of those who left us, whose absence we regret, SO that the universality of  our Organization may become a reality.
27.4 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this session convenes at a moment when historical changes  present new challenges to which our Organization must respond. The respect for the fundamental rights of the  individual, the promotion of justice and ethics, the spread of a culture of tolerance, and the free flow of  information should be the primary concems of every contemporary State. We are pleased to observe that the  Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium takes these challenges into serious consideration. The  change in procedures and working methods adopted, the re-definition of goals and areas of responsibility, Will  undoubtedly enhance the possibility for the fulfihnent of UNESCO’s mandate within the United Nations system.
27.5 Turning to some specific issues in our agenda, Cyprus endorses the spirit and the initiative included in  Major Programme Area 1, Programme 1.1, ‘Towards basic education for ail’, which supports the implementation  of the UNESCO Plan of Action for the Eradication of Illiteracy by the Year 2000 and the Jomtien Framework  for Action to Meet Basic Leaming Needs. In this respect, although in my country illiteracy affects only 4 per  cent of the population, further efforts to reduce illiteracy are being intensified; and to this end, special  programmes have been launched, with the objective of complete eradication.
27.6 The right to education, a basic human right, remains one of my country’s major concems, because it is  a pre-condition for the achievement of sustainable development, and of peace based on human rights,  fundamental freedoms and democracy. Despite the well-known tragic events of 1974, my country has succeeded  in providing education not only to school-age children but also to adults who have diilïculties in acquiring an  adequate functional level of literacy. 1 must, however, report to you that this fundamental right to education is  still violated in the occupied areas of my country where all the enclaved children who complete primary school  cannot follow secondai-y-level studies, because secondary schools are not permitted to operate there. 1 underline  the tragic dilemma of these children, who, if they are to pursue secondai-y education, must leave their homes  and parents and move to the free area.
27.7 Regarding the other priorities of Major Programme Area 1, we are pleased to notice that special  emphasis is placed on secondary technical and vocational education, and we strongly support the execution of  the relevant project launched in 1992. In our country, we have recently finalized a programme for the  integration of technical education with secondary education as a whole, thus reinforcing its appeal and offering  a much wider choice to a11 pupils.
27.8 In the domain of higher education, we welcome the development of the UNITWIN/UNESCO chairs  programme, which we consider the major instrument for fulfilling UNESCO’s role as a promoter of inter-  univers@ co-operation worldwide. We are convinced that the newly established University of Cypms Will  greatly benefit from the UNITWIN activities carried out under the various programmes. 1 feel happy to report  that the University of Cyprus has successfully completed its first year of operation, offering courses to
510 students, in eight departments. It has now over 1,000 lïrst- and second-year students enrolled, and with its  democratic structure and its high-quality programmes has become the meeting-place and the discussion forum  for all Young people of Cypms, as well as for many others. It thus makes a major contribution to the cultural  and social advancement of society.
27.9 Of vital importance to our country is Major Programme Area III, ‘Culture: past, present and future’ and  in particular the preservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage. My govemment makes continuous  efforts to preserve the monuments of all cultures and periods without prejudice or bias. It is most unfortunate,  however, that the cultural heritage in the occupied part of Cyprus is still under serious threat, at best neglected  and abandoned, more ofien looted and deliberately desuoyed. The intention appears to be the elimination of  important features of the island’s past and culture, the main victims being Byzantine churches, monasteries and  works of art. Further proofs of the deliberate attack by the occupying power against the cultural identity of the  area it controls are the destruction of modem cemeteries and the intensified change of toponyms (place names)  that have existed for centuries, in violation of well-established international custom.
27.10 TO mention but two recent instances of threats to our culture: the land around Saint Bamabas  monastery, which preserved the relies of the founder of the Church of Cypms, is also the last resting place of  the ancient kings of Salamis and their families. This area, of the utmost importance for the history of Cypms,  has recently been divided into plots and offered for building development. The medieval Abbey of Bellapais, a  jewel of Gothic art and architecture, is also under threat. According to recent reports, its stones are being  removed for use as building material.
27.11 Our cultural heritage, which dates back 9,000 years, is in peril. We tum to you all and ask you to join  your efforts in helping us to save this heritage, which is not ours alone, but belongs to the whole of mankind.
27.12 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in two years time UNESCO Will be celebrating its ftitieth  anniversary. The basic principles on which our Organization was founded, expressed in practical and concrete  achievements in the sphere of educational, scientific and cultural co-operation, remain, after nearly half a  Century, the surest means for the promotion of peace, tolerance, and understanding among the nations of the  world. The end of the ideological rift between East and West has given UNESCO new opportunities to  accomplish its mission and has renewed our hope for the peaceful settlement of disputes, for development and  prosperity.
27.13 A small country like mine, which is still suffering from the tragic consequences of aggressive war,  relies on UNESCO and other international organizations for a just solution to its problem.
27.14 It is with these thoughts that, in addressing this meeting today, we renew our commitment to the goals  and ideals of UNESCO, and wish this Conference every possible success. Thank you.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  His Excellency Mr Gustavo Su&ez Pertkrra, Spain’s Minister of Education and Science, will now take  the floor.
(29.1) Mr SUAREZ PERTIERRA (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, first of a11 1 should like to congratulate you on your election. If you will allow me, 1  should also like to welcome the States which have just joined the Organization, in particular and for obvious  reasons, the Principal@ of Andorra.
(29.2) Ladies and gentlemen, this Conference is starting at a time of conflicts, which are in a11 our minds, and  of widespread economic crisis. Therefore, during this new stage, the whole of the United Nations system, and our  Organization in particular, must be absolutely true to its basic principle which enjoins it to build peace and  solidarity in the minds of men. It is up to us, now more than ever, to renew our drive to expand and improve  education, as the ideal way to promote the peaceful development of nations. Education continues to be the best  strategic instrument to guarantee the future in a scenario of freedom, interdependence and competitiveness. The  search for solidarity with the most underprivileged sections of society and the countries and regions of the world  in greatest need must continue to be the guiding principle of our collective aspirations.
(29.3) Within the framework of UNESCO, this General Conference gets under way under conditions of  normality. There are no storm-bearing winds blowing today. Neither are we hearing that UNESCO is at a critical  moment in its history nor that its survival Will depend on the decisions which we take here today. This climate of  normal@ is apparent in the road aheady chosen towards the hoped-for and sought-after restoration of the  universality of the Organization, in the correct and serene functioning of a11 its organs and in the recovery of  financial equilibrium. The topics before us for our consideration at this Conference are of the utmost importance  for the present and the future of our nations, and they share the common denominator of the search for peace  within the context of profound and real humanism. Dear colleagues, we cari scarcely be insensitive to this  discussion. Within this context of profundity and interna1 normality, we shall broach four broad topics the scope  of which 1 would like to consider briefly. 1 refer to the approval of the programme and budget for the forthcoming  biennium, the guiding principles of the future Medium-Term Plan, the application for the fiist time of the nefomis  to the Constitution which modified the nature of the Executive Board and, finally, the election of the Director-  General.
(29.4) As far as the draft programme and budget are concemed, and without prejudice to the observations  which my delegation will make on the various programme commissions, it is my view that the programme and
91    budget submitted for our cousideration is perfectly acceptable, not only because the strategies and aims proposed  coincide in essence with those recorded at the proper time in the third Medium-Term Plan, but because at the  same time it has been capable of adapting them to and integrating tbem with the current issues. In short, it has  incorporated modernity within the bosom of tradition.
(29.5) The strict application of techniques for the reduction of expenditure and an uncompromising  management approach would have meant that the new Plan was in danger of being reduced to nothing more than  a restructuring of a forma1 nature, with little impact on the fundamental questions. But this situation has served to  quicken the initiative of the Secretariat and, consequently, we are.presented with an innovative plan, a few  aspects of which 1 would like to stress.
(29.6) Firstly, the setting up in the field of education of an action plan aimed at reconstructing tbe education  systems in those countries where this is urgently required. This new approach will mean that responses will not  be made out of context but within the framework of adequate, long-term planning.
(29.7) 1 should also like to stress, on account of its innovative nature, the UNESCO chairs programme, the  fundamental aim of which is to facilitate the transfer of knowledge in a positive co-operative way. In this the  universities in my country have been pioneem.
(29.8) My attention is also drawn by the judicious increase in resources for activities related to the  conservation of the world heritage, for the World Decade, intercultural dialogue and peace. In this context and on  account of its importance, 1 wish to evoke the programme called ‘Latin-Caribbean America 2000’, which will not  only allow the work carried out on the occasion of the five-hundredth anniversary of the Encounter between Two  Worlds to be consolidated, but will, at the same time and looking to the future, stimulate analysis of the African  influence in the cultural and scientific development of America.
(29.9) 1 also regard as positive the proposed endeavour to support communications in order to promote the fiee  circulation of information in developing countries. 1 would not like to leave tbis headiug without mentioning the  Intergovernmental Information Programme whose increasing importance is due to its usefulness.
(29.10) An obvious achievement of the draft plan is the setting up of the project called ‘Environment and  population education and information for human development’. This project should tie UNESCO’s work up with  the recommendations and guidelines set by the Rio de Janeiro Conference.
(29.11) The increased budgetary allotment for the Participation Programme deserves special mention. This  mechanism will allow Member States and non-governmental organizations to play a more active role in the work  of UNESCO. It Will also allow programmes which existed in previous biennia and which have disappeared during  this one to be continued. However, 1 should not like to pass on without mentioning that this programme is highly  discretional and that its growing importance, particularly if it is compared with other intergovernmental  programmes where Member States intervene directly in programme management, and if this growth trend is  confirmed, may require Member States to play a greater role in the management systems.
(29.12) Finally, 1 thiuk that the priorities given to the countries of Africa, to the least-developed countries and to  women are fully iu tune with current circumstances.
(29.13) The change in the Executive Board was also important for the future of the Organization. This means  that from now on it is the Member States which will assume direct responsibility, participating as such on the  Board. My countty, very much aware of the new character of the Executive Board, wishes to demonstrate this  awareness and has put forward a candidate for a position on it. This step represents a solemn reaffirmation of our  Will to co-operative with UNESCO as well as a public commitment of our confidence in the Organization.
(29.14) This transformation of the Executive Board might have meant that UNESCO was gradually becoming  State-oriented, to the detriment of its ability to relate to the educational, scientific and literary communities.  However, in my opinion this danger has been eliminated because parallel and well-synchronized mechanisms  have been set up which will permit imagination and knowledge to be channelled iuto this House. 1 refer  specifically to tbe Forum of Reflection, the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century,  the World Commission for Culture and Development and the Bioethics Committee. Al1 these bodies, in their  respective fields, Will transmit to us the results of their reflections regarding the future once they have carried out  the relevant diagnoses of the current situation.
(29.15) No less important is the point related to the preliminary considerations regarding medium-term planning  as from 1996. The document which you have presented to us in this regard, Mr Director-General, has a number of  virtues. The first of these is its brevity. The second is that in a clear, expressive and educational mariner it  justifies the need for medium-term planning, not as a kind of corset which Will make future actions binding upon  us and impede us from adapting to circumstances, but as a guide for the Organization. The third virtue of the  document is that it has chosen the principles of foresight, adaptation and concentration as the guidelines for the  whole planning process. It is extremely difficult to be a visionary and a pragmatist at one and the same time, but
4  it is necessary to set up a system which will allow us to foresee the future of history within the limits of the  foteseeable. Today we are educating those who will reach maturity amund the year 2020 and we are establishing  the scientific bases for research which Will be carried out during the first half of the next Century.
(29.16) The next point which 1 think is of extraordinary importance, among the points which we shah be  considering at tbis General Conference, is the election of the Dimctor-General. The Director-General is, in facf  the corner-stone on which UNESCO’s entire administrative and functional edifice rests. It is therefore decisive for  the future of our Organization that we should make the correct choice. TO do SO, we must analyse with due tare  and reflection the person who is tc hold this office. Everyone knows that my country proposed Federico Mayor,  the present Director-General, for this office. Everyone also kuows that his current candidature very soon stopped  being merely a Spanish one to become a European Community candidature, and today, since the Executive Board  has adopted this candidature, it is also ours. We were vety much aware of the responsibihty we were taking on in
1987 and which we are now taking on with mis candidature. But 1 cari assure you that Spain’s action, then as now,  was conditioned exclusively by an interest in the principles and goals of the Organization and its future, and not  by its own private mterests.
(29.17) In 1987, the then Spanish minister told you that he had proposed Federico Mayor bath on account of his  recognized scientific prestige and his experience and practice in the Administration, qualities enhanced by his  intimate knowledge of UNESCO. This combination of factors made him an ideal candidate for the post. Today 1  am in a position to add that, as he bas shown over the last six years, he is an excellent Director-General of  UNESCO. Convinced of the difficulties inherent to the position, we are putting him forward as a candidate once  more in the firm belief that he Will continue and Perfect the line of action which he has undertaken. We are sure  that our Director-General will know, as he has in the past, how to combine the difficult task of presenting  initiatives and proposa& with correct administrative practice. For a11 these reasons, with optimism for the future  and convinced that the candidate which the Executive Board is putting forward is fully capable of leading  UNESCO to its rightful position, 1 take the liberty of asking you to accept this proposa1 unanimously.
(29.18) In conclusion, and returning to what 1 said at the outset, at this moment in time there is no talk of  possible desertions. Iudeed we may reasouably hope for desired returns. Calm and in-depth analysis of OUT  problems has once again been restored. The climate of argument and political controversy, which was so  prejudicial, has been dissipated. The cultural, educational and scientific communities regard this as their House  once more. And finally, transparency, rigorous planning and administrative order are some other characteristics of  the Organization today.
(29.19) By this 1 do not mean that there is not a lot still to do. There is and a great deal too. In the first place,  now more than ever before, UNESCO must be the intellectual and scientific yeast of our world. UNESCO must  be present in the minds of decision-makers.
(29.20) Extreme tare and a great capacity for adaptation Will be required if the innovative constitutional reforms  ate to be adequately implemented. Also necessary is an even more rigorous and transparent administrative system  which Will provide, among other things, a substantial improvement in personnel policies.
(29.21) 1 would like to end these reflections by referring to the advisability of adopting a generous attitude  regarding the use of different languages. Linguistic diversity is not a luxury and no restrictions should be applied  in this regard. Linguistic diversity should be regarded as an integral part of the essence of UNESCO. Needless to  say, for me as a Minister of the Govemment of Spain, the wider use of Spanish in all the activities of the  Organization is of the utmost importance.
(29.22) Madam President, allow me, before finishing this brief statement, to summarize Spain’s co-operation  with UNESCO. As you know, our resources are limited, particularly at the present time when my country, like the  majority of countries in its area, is facing an important economic crisis. However, as we identify with the ideals of  the Organization and we feel solidarity towards those less fortunate, 1 am pleased to be able to tel1 you that not  only have we maintained a11 our commitments, but we have acquired new obligations.
(29.23) Undoubtedly, the project with which Spain feels most closely associated, both for historical reasons and  current links, is the Major Project in Education for Latin America and the Caribbean. We have been co-operating  actively with this project since the 1980s. My country regards as most positive the proposa1 put forward by its  organs of govemment to include countries from outside the region which are particularly interested in belonging  to it. You may be sure, Madam President, that we shall not miss this opportunity which is being offered US and  that Spain Will apply to become a full member of the governing bodies of the major project.
(29.24) The IFOMA project being carried out in 14 African countries, in which we have co-operated SO actively,  is an excellent opportunity to integrate the world of work and the world of education within a context of  sustainable development.
(29.25) On the other hand, our close co-operation with the Intergovernmental Information Programme has  allowed this programme to start off on the right foot and attracted the attention of other important donors in the  matter of computer training, of such importance for development.
(29.26) In June 1994 Spain, together with UNESCO, will organize in Salamanca a ‘World Conference on access  and quality for people with special education needs’. This Conference, which falls within the framework of the  Jomtien Conference, will undoubtedly constitute a platform to revise policies and discuss strategies in an area of  such importance as special education where UNESCO cari and must play a prominent role.
(29.27) Before 1 finish, 1 would like to recall that, coinciding with the last General Conference, tbe HISPASAT  ptoject for the creation of an Ibero-American educational satellite television channel took shape here in Paris in  October 1991. Spain wished to contribute to this joint effort with an up-to-date broadcasting instrument, in the  firm belief that education and culture are the best levers of development and equality for democratic coexistence.  At that time eveiy Latin American Minister of Education supported this project. Today, 1 wish to point out with  satisfaction that this is now a reality, thanks to the contributions made by public and private institutions from all  over Ibero-America. UNESCO’s role in lauuching Ibero-American Educational Television has been relevant.  Spain continues to be committed to the finaucing of this project and Will continue to offer space for the  broadcasting of UNESCO programmes, proud to be able to share this work in the interests of education.
(29.28) This is but a brief sample of the most salient aspects of our co-operation with UNESCO, but it does not  stop here, contiuuing in the day to day contributions of our National Commission and with the Spanish experts  who play a full and active role in most of the Organization’s work.
(29.29) Madam President, Spain once again wishes to affirm its faith in the future of the Organization and its  open spirit of collaboration. Therefore, Madam President, 1 repeat my hope that the work of this General  Conference, under your chairmanship, will enjoy every success. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies  and gentlemen.  (Mr Sayyad, Yemen, takes the chair)
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Spanish delegation and now cal1 on Mr Ah Fakhro, Miuister of Education and  head of tbe Bahraini delegation, to take the floor.
(31.1) Mr FAKHRO (Bahrain) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, heads and members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to thank the Director-General and say how very happy we are with  his election for the second time. 1 am grateful to both him and his colleagues in the UNESCO Secretariat for  preparing document 27 C/5 in its new and clearly laid-out format. 1 am all in favour of treating the programmes as  five separate but largely interactive programmes, flexible enough to cater for any ideas or requirements that may  arise in the future within UNESCO’s main specialized areas. 1 would also like to thank the Chairperson and  members of the Executive Board for their gallant efforts in preparing for this Conference. 1 congratulate ~OU,  Mr President, on your election as President of the Conference and am confident that you Will chair its proceedings  with your customary wisdom and vital@.
(31.2) Mr President, the speeches of hope and optimism that we heard in this hall two years ago are still fresh  in our minds. Two years ago, we were told, far from this forum of ours, that a new age of peace and harmony was  dawning and we were told how idyllic and pleasant this forthcoming paradise would be. There were those of us  who were naïve and who joined the side of the optimists but there were others of us for whom reason triumphed  over childish emotion, who had recourse to history rather than to fables and who refused to follow the popular  fashion which the all-powerful media still manage to persuade people to adopt.
(31.3) 1 must reiterate today what 1 said then. TO talk of a new, democratic, just and ethical world order  remains a dream. Il is the language of the possible, nothing more.’ What greater proof of what we are saying is  there than the daily scenes of suffering in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the massacres in Angola and Somalia, the  human rights violations in the Occupied Territories, the demonstrations against immigrants on the streets of  Western cities and the clashes resulting from racial and factional hatred on the streets of Eastern Europe and the  Third World? Add to that the censure, blame and threats being levelled against international organizations, in  particular, the United Nations itself.
(31.4) And what of the promise that an end to the Cold War would reduce the amount spent on armaments and  would lead to the fulfilment of the economists’ predictions that 10per cent, at most, of the major powers’  expenditure on arms would be enough to make a significant contribution to the economies of the developing  world, would meet certain basic needs and reduce world poverty to a minimum?
(31.5) Mr President, in view of what 1 have just said, if it was necessary to choose a single course of action for  UNESCO to follow in order to discharge its obligations towards its Member States and the international  community, 1 would narrow it down to providing strong support for the concept of sustainable development and  a11 that this entails. Without going into detail, such development requires collective self-reliance, confidence in  the national economy and the local commun@, respect for human lie, concentration on human issues and the  empowerment of the people, including regard for women’s rights and a proper, central role for them in the home  and the community, diversity in all aspects of human endeavour, democratic and devolved participation by a11 and  a response to everyone’s basic individual needs.
(31.6) In my view, UNESCO% activities in Member States at regional and international level must conform to  the exigencies of this type of development now that everyone is aware of the shortcomings of the present system  based on damaging economic expansion, a tendency towards reckless over-consumption and a lack of regard for  the natural and social environment.
(31.7) Mr President, since, in this world of suffering, any commitment by UNESCO to the concept of  sustainable development would require an organization of outstanding vitality, courage and ingenuity, 1 would ask  you to bear with me while 1 highlight a number of misgivings 1 have about the future of UNESCO. 1 consider it  my duty to draw your attention to them before we fa11 into any traps in the future.
(31.8) Firstly, when the resolution to make members of the Executive Board sit as representatives of their  States rather than in an individual capacity was adopted, our fear was that the quality and diversity of ideas inside  UNESCO would diminish and that it would become more political. Most of us remain concerned and, unless  governments are aware of this, they will not Select bright and outspoken representatives and give them free rein to  act and express themselves as they wish, confident in their maturity, integrity and standards. Future Executive  Boards, therefore, will be less able to take the initiative, explore new horizons and reflect contemporary ethics.
(31.9) At the same time, in order to restore the balance, greater attention should be given to the National  Commissions for the preparation and evaluation of programmes, and these Commissions should be given the  material and moral support they need SO as best to represent the intellectual, cultural, educational and scientific  potential of civilized society.
(31.10) Secondly, despite UNESCO’s important intellectual contribution, it must be careful not to become too  complacent and dismissive of others’ ideas. UNESCO is indeed one of the world’s sources of inspiration but it is  not the only one. It cari play a significant role within its own areas of competence but it will not necessarily be the  best nor the most influential contribution. 1 mention this in view of the vociferous discussions that took place  during meetings of the Executive Board and its commissions conceming the creation of the Forum of Reflection  and, later, concerning the Forum’s report, which has finally been submitted. TO co-operate and amalgamate with  the other forces operating within UNESCO’s fields of competence must be a matter of continuai, fîîm, progressive  and innovative policy.
(31.11) Thirdly and finally, the world has many problems that are becoming more and more complicated by the  day and, because opportunities for national salvation are few and far between, the international organizations are  coming under pressure to intervene, to register protests, to investigate situations, sanction initiatives and hand out  medals. Moral obligation created by media scare-mongering and exaggeration also plays a significant part in  giving these pressures a large degree of legitimacy. Organizations like UNESCO are therefore forced to shoulder  new responsibilities and commitments SO that they eventually find themselves obliged to divide up their major  projects and spread their patronage more thinly at the expense, naturally, of their main responsibilities. It is often  said that this has, in fact, already occurred in UNESCO. Take, for example, education, which, in my opinion, has  been greatly neglected by both the Executive Board and the General Conference over the past few years in their  topical debates, which are now taken up with talk of budgets and statistics rather than the crucial business of  education, training and major strategic issues.
(31.12) 1 am very pleased that the report of the Forum of Reflection has once again confiied to us a11 that the  key to solving the world’s problems is education and training, in addition, of course, to serious in-depth  discussions in the Commission for E!ducation for the Twenty-First Century. Perhaps all this will mean a return to  basics with less digression into minor issues, that is to say, a reaffirmation of UNESCO’s major fundamental  commitments instead of becoming involved in a myrîad of marginal undertakiigs which we see filling the  Organization’s agenda at an alarming rate. Thank you, Mr President.
(33.1) Mr AL-RABEI (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, MrDirector-  General, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like to extend my congratulations to the  President of the Conference and to the Director-General, the Chairperson of the Bxecutive Board and a11 the new  members of this Organization. 1 believe that UNESCO’s responsibility has become more complex and difficult but  it has also become more important because the trends that the world has seen over the past few years, particularly  the thaw in international relations, the end of the frantic arms race, the establishment of peace or the beginnings  of peace in the various regions where there is tension, most importantly in the Middle East and South Africa, and  the increasing preoccupation of nations with peace and mutual understanding, will ail place new responsibilities  and demands on UNESCO. The world we live in today, despite a11 that has been achieved, is undergoing a severe  moral crisis. Perhaps the world’s preoccupation with politics and its neglect of cultural matters, its treatment of  the symptoms of a crisis while ignoring the underlying social, economic and human causes, are some of the most  obvious explanations for this crisis of morality.
(33.2) Many questions are being raised which we must deal with frankly and directly. Can there be a  prosperous world for both ourselves and our children without principles of freedom, equality, respect for human  rights, freedom of thought and expression, a belief in social and political plural@ and a widespread spirit of  tolerance amongst the world’s population? Can we, after the successes on the political front, have the same  success on the cultural front? Are we capable of recognizing our responsibility for the millions of starving people  and those threatened by war and separation, and for cleaning up the planet that remains under constant threat  from pollution? Can we stem the tide of new diseases that are killing millions of people and divert the huge sums  of money being spent on arms into schools, hospitals, cultural centres and children’s playgrounds?
(33.3) Ladies and gentlemen, during the occupation of my country, 1 experience, as did others, what it is like to  be in a cultural wasteland. While the soldiers looted everything they found and destroyed our cultural institutions,  our hospitals and schools, 1 saw the consequences of moral depravity, of an absence of proper education and  teaching and what happens when men are transformed into wild beasts, and a11 this because of a lack of tolerance,  a lack of schools in which such tolerance and good behaviour may be learned and because of a system of  government in which there is only one point of view, one leada and one party.
(33.4) Mr President, the Director-General painted a gloomy picture of the problems currently facing the world  and raised the issues of the population explosion, famine and war but, despite everything, be gave us a feeling of  optimism about the future and that is what we really need. It Will not be enough, ladies and gentlemen, to mourn  the vestiges of our past endeavours. We must instead look to the future with these strongly optimistic words of the  Turkish poet, Nazim Hikmet, in our minds: It is the Child as yet unbom that is the most beautiful, the still  undiscovered river the most scenic, the still unopened flower the most pleasing’. Thank you, Mr President.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Kuwaiti delegation for his speech and for keeping it within the allocated time. 1  hope subsequent speakers will follow his example. 1 now give the floor to Mr Zedillo Ponce de Le&, Minister of  Education and head of the Mexican delegation.
(35.1) Mr ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, esteemed colleagues,  allow me to pass on to all ministers and delegates the good wishes of the President of Mexico. 1 should also like  to express sincere congratulations to Mr Ahmed Sayyad on his election as President of this Conference. In the  name of the Govermnent of Mexico, 1 wish to extend special recognition to Mr Federico Mayor for the important  work which he has carried out at the head of the General Directorate of UNESCO, and to congratulate him on the  recommendation made by the Bxecutive Board for his re-election.
(35.2) The Mexican delegation is attending this twenty-seventh session of the General Conference with special  interest, since the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995 sets forth, with realism and relevance, the tasks  which UNESCO proposes to carry out during the next biennium. Furthermore, it is a pleasure to note that our  Organization’s agenda bears a close resemblance to the development policy being promoted in Mexico.
(35.3) In this regard, our work is based on a shared vision of development as a sustainable, equitable process  aimed at attaining maximum well-being for human beings. The social policy being applied in Mexico is precisely  focused towards promoting people’s capacity to improve the quality of their lives, bath at individual and at  community level. The importance of education, science and culture in this process is inescapable. This is the  reason why the Mexican Goverrmrent is applying a complete education policy with a view to ensuring more and  better opportunities of learning for all. This education policy has many points in common with UNESCO% priority  for promoting basic education. This consensus in favour of education is expressed in our country in an agreement  to modernize basic education along three fundamental Iines.
(35.4) The first great challenge was to correct the centralization and bureaucracy of the education system  which resulted from the expansion of the system itself. This meant completely decentralizing the school system,  fiom the Federal Govemment to the State governments, and promoting greater community participation in support  of education. In 1992 100,000 schools with their 13.5 million students, as well as the human resources and  funding for operating them, were decentralized. Decentralization of the basic education system, one of the most  wide-ranging carried out in the world, was completed in only seven months and not a single school day was lost  in the process.
(35.5) A second main aim was to modernize the course contents and materials used in basic education, in order  to effectively prepam students for lifelong learning. SO, for the first time in 20 years, a profound cmricular reform  was carried out in our wuntry which will ensure the teaching of truly basic knowledge. Primary and secondary  education course contents have been fully overhauled. In 1994 the renewal of textbooks will be completed,  including almost 100,000 textbooks which the government distributes free of charge every year to primary-school  children. T~US, the reorganization of the education system reconciles decentralized management with a national  curriculum and nationwide educational standards. You will agree with me, dear delegates, that an essential  component of educational advancement is the preparation and motivation of teachers. For this reason every effort  has been made to remunerate basic education teachers adequately. Over the past five years their salaries have  increased by more than 70 per cent in real terms. In addition, in order to revalue the social and educational  function of teachers, only this year a programme for the promotion of teachers with few parallels in the world bas  been introduced in Mexico. This programme allows teachers to attain a higher income on the basis not only of  years of service, but mainly on the systematic assessment of their knowledge and classroom performance.
(35.6) On the other hand, bearing in mind the new educational requirements of the country, a constitutional  reform was set before the Congress of Mexico and passed at the beginning of 1993, which ratifies education as a  basic human right and extends the period of wmpulsory education to nine years. As a result of this reform, a few  months ago Congress itself issued a new General Education Law. Among other things, this law specifies the  obligation of the State to design and execute different wmpensatory programmes to eliminate inequalities in  access to education due to factors such as economic, social or geographical disadvantagement. Consequently, a  number of programmes are being promoted to take the basic education service to the poorest ruban and rural  communities.
(35.7) In accordance with another of UNESCO’s major priorities, and precisely because the education policy of  Mexico wvers a11 ages, the ongoing campaign to reduce illiteracy among older citizens by one third within two  years has been reinforced with a view to reaching a figure of 8 per cent by the end of next year. The stress being  laid on basic education is apparent in that public spending in this field has doubled in real terms since 1989.  Nevertheless, this stress has been accompanied by careful attention to the other educational levels, particularly  work training and higher education. Scientific research is also being promoted through schemes for institutional  financing and support, based on criteria of academic excellence.
(35.8) We Mexicans are particularly proud of our historical roots, our cultural heritage and the creative vitality  of our artistic community. For this reason the different manifestations of the human spirit are encouraged, and the  treasures left to us by the civilizations which preceded us in our land are protected. Therefore, very recently an  innovative system of economic incentives was set up for artists, and a project to rescue and develop 14great  archaeological sites of exceptional importance was undertaken. UNESCO has wntinually exhorted developing  and developed countries alike to allocate greater economic resources to education. In Mexico, national spending  on education, which was 3.6 per cent of GNP in 1988, increased to 5.5 per cent of GNP in 1993. This requires an  enormous national effort which, however, we know must be increased. The aims of education require the  commitment and sustained endeavour on the part of every govemment, social group and multilateral organization.
(35.9) For this reason, Mr President, we are pleased to note that the Programme and Budget for 1994-1995  submitted for the consideration of the Conference contains this commitment which is shared by the Government  of Mexico. If education is the principal way in which we cari promote individual attainment, extend the  importance of human rights and values and provide solid support for development, we must remain committed to  it on an ongoing basis. UNESCO’s responsibility in fulfilling this commitment is a delicate one. It is pleasing to  note the progress in the functioning of our Organization, particularly in the recovery of the lofty aims which  inspired its foundation and the prudent restructuring of its programmes and projects. This task must be continued  and strengthened over the years to corne. UNESCO must respond to the great educational, scientific and cultural  challenge which faces us as this Century draws to a close by concentrating the political will of its Member States,  the talent of its directors and its budgetary resources on this essential mission.
(35.10) Mr President, delegates, Mexico has co-operated decisively and extensively with UNESCO since its  creation in 1946. The President of Mexico has asked me to transmit to this Conference the commitment of his  government to continue to do SO, convinced of the exemplary support of the Organization for education, science  and culture throughout the world. The Mexican delegation is confident that the Programme and Budget for 1994-
1995 will contribute towards strengthening the exercise of the principles of peace, freedom, democracy, equality  and solidarity which govern UNESCO. We also wish most sincerely that the work of this Conference will be  fruitful and contribute towards promoting well-being and strengthening the bonds of friendship and w-operation  between nations. Thank you very much.
(36) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Mexican delegation for his speech and give the floor to Mr Hamad Abdul  Rahman a1 Madfa, Minister of Education and head of the United Arab Bmirates delegation.
(37.1) Mr Hamad Abdul Rahman AL MADFA (United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, heads and members of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, 1 bring greetings from the Head of State, the  Government and the people of the United Arab Emirates with best wishes to UNESCO and to you a11 for a  successful outcome to the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.
(37.2) First of all, 1 would like to congratulate those States that have become members of the Executive Board.
1 would also like to thank Mr Ogot, President of the last ordinary session of the General Conference, and a11 those  who worked and took part in the business of that session, and to extend my congratulations and best wishes to the  President of the present session, Mr Ahmed Sayyad.
(37.3) As the tide of war ebbs away, SO the shores of peace become broader, affording greater opportunities for  development and Prosper@ that Will bestow both goodness and blessings on a11 mankind. This is where education  will begin to play its part in ensming that people are at peace with themselves, their neighbours, their own  communities and with the world at large. The importance of culture, which gives direction to such education and  understanding, and therefore the importance of the task, for which your revered Organization as a United Nations  agency striving to bring peace throughout the world is eminently qualified, Will become increasingly apparent.
(37.4) This is our conviction, our concept of the role of education and our understanding of the significance of  knowledge and culture. Perhaps with such an outlook we will be complying with one of UNESCO’s most  important principles, namely, that peace is created in the minds of men, and Will fulfil the objectives that the  United Nations has set itself for the period 1994-1995.
(37.5) We would like, at the outset, to draw attention to the real achievements of the United Nations generally,  but particularly those of UNESCO in caring for and respecting tire environment. The period 1992-1993 has seen a  greater preoccupation with the environment throughout the world, which indicates, on the one hand, international  approval for this kind of activity and, on the other, that the efforts themselves rcflcct real concerns and an interest  in important worthwhile issues.
(37.6) In the other main area of concem for international co-operation, namely the establishment of peace, in  which UNESCO must play a greater part, we now see, more than at any other time in the past, that the time is  right for UNESCO, together with the other international organizations in the Arab world, and particularly after  the recent thaw in relations, to undertake such a role. We therefore endorse the Director-General’s proposai for  the adoption of document 27 C/5, which sets out certain rules and regulations that will enable the Organization to  respond quickly and effectively to unforeseen circumstances. We also endorse the inclusion of the new  Subprogramme 1.2.4: ‘Reconstruction of education systems’, as called for in the above proposal.
(37.7) Before dealing with the main programmes, 1 would like to commend the recommendations of  UNESCO’s Bxecutive Board in respect of the draft budget for 1994-1995, document 27 C15, and especially the  recommendations to approve the transfer of responsibility for educational policy-making, planning and  administration to the International Institute for Bducational Planning and to merge Major Programme Areas V, VI  and VII of the programme into a new Major Programme Area V. 1 would also commend the observations of the  Board on the technical aspects of the budget and the new procedure whereby members of the Board are elected as  nation States rather than as individuals. 1 would also point out that the aims of the programme are generally in  keeping with the teachmg methods and educational policy of the United Arab Emiiates, which has taken a  number of steps in this direction, and 1 would like to outline these in just a moment.
(37.8) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, me increased activity in both primary and higher education that has  corne to light during this session, and the great emphasis on technical education, go to show that such areas of  interest are a natural extension of the back-up work of UNESCO and its Member States. In the second and third  major programme areas, we hope that UNESCO’s programme for matching academic posts to universities,  together with the co-operative infrastructure that exists in the specialist scientific fields, will go a long way  towards serving the environment. We also hope that cross-cultural dialogue will be used to enhance the  opportunities for peace where measures have already been taken to bring peace about, and to create such  opportunities in places where they are still needed.
(37.9) In the preservation of the world’s heritage, UNESCO’s role is incontrovertible and is still in evidence at  this session. The funds allocated to it are set to increase and this will give rise to a great munber of opportunities  to protect and preserve this heritage, particularly in view of the increased budget for peace-keeping duties, human  rights and the eliiination of a11 forms of discrimination. This is due not only to the strong correlation between  these two elements on the one hand, and between these elements and the establiihment of a cross-cultural  dialogue on the other, but also to the potential that this has for creating a spirit of international tolerance and for  helping to focus the efforts of the world on further development and construction.
(37.10) Ladies and gentlemen, reducing expenditure to a minimum and allocating resources to UNESCO’s  programmes is an objective to which we a11 aspire and which we trust Will be achieved through the new,  substantive initiatives to improve the Organization’s working practices, on the understanding that those activities  being carried out in support of the least-developed countries will not be disrupted. Perhaps such an economy  drive, in conjunction with UNESCO’s proposed decentralization programme, will help to increase awareness  about these countries and about issues that concem women and Young people. 1 take this opportunity to commend  the 1994-1995 budget, which was drawn up in accordance with UNESCO’s financial regulations and for which an  increase of just under 9 per cent was made available. We have already seen with great satisfaction the cost-  savings that have been made in most of the Organization’s divisions and Regional Offices, in addition to the  rcduction in these Offices’ running costs. We hope, however, that the Organization will cany out its intention to  find a solution to the continua1 delays in processing the paperwork connected with these expenses.
(37.11) Ladies and gentlemen, the United Arab Bmirates is proud of UNESCO, its programmes and its  scientific approach and even prouder of the way in which our own educational, cultural and scientific policies  conform to these programmes and to this approach and have brought about, with the guidance of our Head of  State, His Highness Shaikh Zayed Ibn Sultan Al Nahayyan, a reduction in the illiteracy rate in our country to
16 per cent of the population. We have embarked on the National Plan to Eradicate Illiteracy, which has received  support at the highest levels. Nursery schools have become an integral part of primary education and work bas  begun at the Nursery Schools Development Centre, in conjunction with UNICEF and the Arabian Gulf  Programme for United Nations Development Organizations. Where education for girls is concemed, our country  has seen a marked increase in the number of girls enrolling for general education. During the academic year
1992-1993, their number amounted to about 51 percent of ail enrolments, demonstrating our commitment bath to  providing equal opportunities for both sexes in the United Arab Emirates and to addressing women’s issues. The  actual number of girls enrolling at higher technical colleges bas also incrcased while the colleges themselves have  expanded both in size and numbers. The UAB Council of Ministers has decided to equate diplomas awarded by  these colleges to first-class univers@ qualifications. 1 should also mention that the fiist group of women students
105    graduated recently fiom the Medical College ar the Emiiates University to begin practising this noble profession  alongside their female colleagues who graduated from other universities.
(37.12) Since we are looking at the United Arab Bmirate’s achievements in educating women and in furthering  their educational and cultural clevelopment, we must not overlook the Federation of Women, a leading  organization in this field administered by Her Highness Shaikha Fatema Bint Mubarak, the wife of His Highness  the Head of State. Under her wise direction and the guidance of His Highness Shaikh Zayed Ibn Sultan Al  Nahayyan, the federation has managed to set up schools for women and girls of a11 ages and at varying levels  throughout the country, in both desert and urban areas, that are playing a considerable part in bringing education  to women and radically reducing the rate of illiteracy among them. This, together with the concern shown by Her  Highness for the education of women, will be achieved by allowing them to take part in reviving and exhibiting  the United Arab Emirate’s popular heritage and traditional handicrafts.
(37.13) As part of this strategy, the Ministry of Education has adopted a comprehensive policy for development  and has consequently devised a number of development programmes. Among the most important of these are,  fïïstly, a programme to develop courses of study and subject curricula, and material for various courses has been  prepared, the teaching of Engliih from primary-school level has been introduced throughout the country and  computers have been installed in 100 schools; secondly, a programme to develop school activities through a  progressive strategy that ensures the ah-round, balanced development of the student, not only in terms of  knowledge and skills but also socially and emotionally; thiidly, a programme to develop special needs education,  since the Ministry would not wish to overlook those who are physically or mentally handicapped. Moreover, in  order to bring about greater interaction between education and the needs of social and cconomic development, the  Ministry has devised a plan for more technical education, which is expected to be put into effect in the near  future.
(37.14) Where training is concerned, the Ministry of Education has fiished drafting the Executive Plan for the  First Year of the Training Strategy and its Five-Year Plan for 1992-1997. The Emirates Univers@ and the  Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research are also making great efforts in this respect. 1 ought to  mention here the Ministry’s successes in overseeing the most recent scientific developments, namely the setting  up of many new, advanced centres for research into technology and energy, for example, in addition to a remote  sensing centre, a centre for educational and psychological services, research and development, and a centre for  history and national heritage.
(37.15) In conclusion, it only remains for me to express my sincerest gratitude to a11 UNFSCo’s V~~~OUS  departments, under the leadership of the Dircctor-General, and to a11 his excellent staff, to the Chairperson and  members of the Fxecutive Board and to all the specialists, administrators and technicians in the Organization for  what they are doing in the service of education, science and culture.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the United Arab Emirates delegation for his speech and now give the floor to  Dr Nikola Kovac, Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to France.
39.1 M. KOVAC (Bosnie-Herzégovine) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous féliciter très chaleureusement pour votre élection à la  présidence de la Conférence générale, au nom d’un Etat dont le drapeau vient d’être placé dans cette salle.
39.2 Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, dans le cadre des débats sur la liberté et les droits de l’homme, je voudrais vous transmettre un  message de detresse de mon pays. La Bosnie-Herzégovine est aujourd’hui aux prises avec les épreuves des plus  tragiques de son histoire : agressée et trahie à la fois, elle est le pays où toutes les lois humaines et divines ont  Cté violees.
39.3 Les hostilit& ne s’arrêtent pas ; un de ces jours derniers, plus de 800 obus ont frappé Sarajevo. Le  nombre des victimes, dont 80 % sont des civils, ne cesse de s’accroître. L’étau du siège militaire et administratif  de Sarajevo menace de faire mourir les habitants de cette ville privée d’électricité, de gaz, d’eau et de  mklicaments. Depuis la proclamation des “zones de s&uité” (en mai de cette annte), le nombre des victimes, à  Sarajevo uniquement, s’elève à 687 morts et plus de 4.000 blessés. Et on ne cesse de tirer sommairement et au  hasard sur la ville. Tout l’héritage culturel et artistique, d’origine sacrée ou profane, est la cible de l’agression : les mosquées, les églises, les synagogues sont d&ruites ou gravement endommagées, les bibliothèques et les  instituts brûlés, les facultes pillees. Toutes les communications avec Sarajevo sont coupees. Les éleves sont
4  privés de scolarité et les citoyens, bloqués dans la ville martyre, ne peuvent témoigner devant l’opinion  internationale sur les atrocités subies par les Bosniaques.
39.4 L’agression contre la Bosnie-Herzegovine vise un double objectif : d’abord, faire éclater un &at  indépendant multinational en zones ethniques, en vue de rattacher celles-ci ulterieurement aux Etats voisins.  Ensuite, d&ruire l’esprit de convivialité - avec ce qu’il implique de respect des differences - et de solidarite entre  des peuples qui ont prouvé depuis des siècles qu’ils voulaient et w vivre ensemble. Cet objectif est  absurde dans sa conception, parce qu’on ne peut pas stparer ce que la nature et l’histoire ont assemble. Les  peuples de Bosnie-Herzégovine parlent la même langue, ont la même origine et sont unis non seulement par  une destinée commune, mais aussi par de nombreux liens familiaux. Cet objectif est monstrueux dans sa mise  en application - pratique du “nettoyage ethnique” et d6placements massifs de populations. Il est impossible,  sans recourir aux crimes, de tracer la ligne de partage entre les peuples bosniaques, parce qu’il n’existe pas de  territoires ethniquement homogènes : cette ligne devrait passer par nos familles et par notre coeur.
39.5 C’est pourquoi nous demandons a la communauté internationale de faire respecter les résolutions qui  ont été VO~&S et adoptées par les organisations internationales, et qui ont Cte proposées, et souvent imposées, a  la Bosnie-Herzégovine. Le peuple bosniaque est décidé et ferme dans sa détermination de défendre sa liberté et  son droit a la survie. Si la communauté internationale ne peut pas nous aider à établir une paix juste et  honorable, elle ne doit pas du moins empêcher les Bosniaques de lutter jusqu’au bout et de prouver, une fois de  plus, à travers des épreuves tragiques, que le défenseur finit toujours par triompher de l’agresseur et que les  arguments de force mis en avant par les mouvements nationalistes et fascistes ne peuvent l’emporter sur les  droits et les principes democratiques. Monsieur le Président, si nous nous adressons aujourd’hui a l’UNESCO  pour sauvegarder notre patrimoine historique, pour aider a reconstituer nos bibliotheques (particulièrement la  Bibliothèque nationale et universitaire) et nos institutions culturelles scolaires et scientifiques, c’est parce que  nous defendons l’idée dune Bosnie démocratique multiculturelle et multinationale, une Bosnie qui servirait de  pont entre les differentes traditions civilisatrices dans les Balkans et en Europe. Est-ce trop demander que  d’exiger le respect des droits élementaires d’un peuple a son identité et a sa culture ? Peut-on tolerer le triomphe  de la barbarie sur les valeurs et la tradition humanistes ? Peut-on rkompenser l’agresseur dont l’idéologie  renvoie au totalitarisme nationaliste et fasciste ? Peut-on legaliser la violence après tant de victimes et continuer  à envisager l’agression contre la Bosnie-Herzégovine comme un cas particulier, en dehors du temps et au-del&  de notre responsabilite commune ? Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(40) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the Ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina and now invite His Ekcellency Mr Matug Matug,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, to take the floor.
(41 .l) Mr MATUG MATUG (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Bxecutive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished heads of delegation, first of aIl, 1 have great pleasure in greeting you warmly in the name of my  country, the great Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, on the occasion of the twenty-seventh session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, and in congratulating the President on his election for the twenty-seventh  session, wishing him success in managing the affairs of our Conference. 1 am also pleased to welcome the new  members to our Organization and to wish them a11 success and prosperity.
(41.2) Mr President, heads and members of delegation, my country’s delegation, having examined the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1994-1995, would like to register its approval of the modifications made to document
27 C/5, particularly as regards the layout, which is now much clearer and more concise. My delegation would also  like to highlight the general tenor of ProgrammeI.2, Education for the twenty-first century, together with the  relevant recommendations of the Executive Bnard. It also asks that the General Conference should take special  tare to promote those programmes that involve the use of science and technology in order to create those technical  and technological skills set out in the draft programme and budget that are necessary for Member States to fulfil  their development and social programme objectives.
(41.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by an amazing coincidence, the date and time of my speech to you  today, 26 October, is the anniversary of a day of mourning in my counhy for those Libyans who died in exile in  Italy as a result of that country’s widespread imperialist policies when Libya was an Italian colony. My delegation  therefore demands the disclosure of a11 details concerning Libyan deportees to Italy and elsewhere.
(41.4) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, my countty’s delegation is making every  effort to persuade the international community to take part in rebuilding the cultural and educational institutions  that suffered such destruction and devastation as a result of In@ belligerent and racist actions. Lasting peace for  ail mankind therefore cari only be achieved if we are able to bring about stability and dialogue in order to solve ail  regional and international problems. My delegation knows full well that the Organization, already on the  threshold of the hventy-fiist century, has an important role to play in the times ahead in preserving mankind’s  cultural heritage and in establishing peace and democmcy, by enabling people to live in peace and by achieving  me objectives of social and economic development.
(41.5) Mr President, heads and members of delegation, my people, who are small in number but who aspire to  great things, have always passionately believed in the need to be free and strong in the world. We are, however,  facing a deluge of threats and menaces, which has resulted over a number of years in a series of aggressive  measures and threats of blockade and embargo in order to weaken us and squander our resources SO that we are  unable to develop or satisfy our needs.
(41.6) Mr President, let us now consider some of the resolutions previously adopted by UNESCO’s General  Conference which have highlighted the important and central position of the Arabie language as a means of  communication for more than 200,000,000 people spread over a number of continents and as the language of  culture for more than 1,000 million Muslims. As we look at the resolutions and measures taken during previous  sessions of the General Conference concerning the use of the Arabie language for UNESCO business, my  delegation, while recommending raising the profile of the Arabie language in UNESCO programmes within the  recognized limits, in accordance with objectives set out in the programme and budget, expresses its grave concern  at the continuing imbalance in the use of the UNESCO General Conference’s six working languages and would  like to discover what has been done to find an effective alternative to the present system. Perhaps the Diector-  General will, in his report on this General Conference, give the requisite prominence to the Arabie language,  which has not enjoyed the same status as the other languages, particularly in the field of publications.
(41.7) Mr President, heads and members of delegation, my country is committed to preserving the cultural  heritage of mankind and demands the return of everything that was appropriated during colonial times. My  country further demands the eradication of the legacy of war, especially the large-scale suffering caused by the  Second World War which hindered plans for development in Libya, damaged the health of its people and polluted  its environment. My country also requires that seas and oceans should remain clean through the prevention of  industrial, particularly nuclear and chemical, dumping because of the damage caused to marine life and the  consequent dangers to human health.
(41.8) Mr President, we are trying to adopt a resolute and honourable position to the threat facing us. The  embargo ctnrently imposed on us is clearly having a harmful effect on the development of our society, particulatly  the lack of essential health and educational supplies. The financial restrictions imposed on my country for close  on two years and the implementation of mandatory Security Council resolution 748 bas hampered a11 progress in  our cultural and educational programme. This resolution, as a result of which my country suffered greatly and  continues to do SO, is preventing it from achieving and developing its scientific and cultural objectives. Even now,  Libyan students in the United Kingdom, especially those studying electrical and electronic engineering, are facing  many difficulties because some of the universities’ science faculties, among them, unfortunately, that of Leeds  University, are still not officially admitting them. The same measures are being taken against their fellow  students who want to study in the United States, even at their own government’s expense.
(41.9) The air embargo imposed on my country by this same resolution has given rise to a further tragedy,  namely, the deaths of wholly innocent victims in serious road accidents, and a11 for the sake of bringing charges  against two Libyan nationals on the basis of unsubstantiated evidence. Those countries that claim to be  democracies and that also support the resolution have forgotten that the ban on Third World nations from carrying  out atomic research cannot be justified by the argument that Third World countries could then steal their  technology and secrets and therefore their industrial capability. They know perfectly well that Third World  nations are more interested in education, health, food and warding off the dangers inherent in the nuclear  installations belonging to the nations of the developed world. We are not far from the nuclear disasters and  accidents that regularly occur, because they have affected many nations. Why then must the Third World be  denied access to knowledge and education in order to avoid such hazards?
(41.10) Although my country pointed this out at the forty-third session of the International Conference on  Education last year, permit me to reiterate to this esteemed international forum that the implementation of this  resolution is threatening my counhy’s human right to life, education, learning and culture, whether by raising the  price of essential educational and health supplies and materials and delaying their importation into the country,  particularly milk products SO necessaiy for the health of babies, mothers and schoolchildren, or by making it  impossible to send teachers and students abroad to study, or children suffering from incurable diseases abroad for  treatment. This has also led most obviously to a disruption in the programme of visits by teachers and specialists  and to the late arriva1 of our delegations at international meetings and functions. Even documents for this  Conference only reached us a few days ago. Faced with this resolution and its gross violation of the human right  to life, education, culture and security, as provided for in a11 international charters, we appeal to your esteemed  Conference to do a11 in its power to sabotage this oppressive resolution and to return to the more sensible and  civilized process of establishing a dialogue and using peaceful means to bring an end to the sources of tension and  provide solutions to disputes and controversies. The Libyan Arab people have resolved to do this and are officially  committed to such action in all international fora.
(41.11) Mr President, distinguished heads and members of delegation, paragraph 23 of the illustrious People’s  Green Book of human rights reads, ‘The people of the Jamahiriya believe that peace among nations ensures  prosperity, comfort and harmony’. We are well aware that human hardship and suffering Will not corne to an end  and that human rights will only ever be respccted once people are free from the ravages of war and cari live in a  world of peace, reverence, love and co-operation. No area of endeavour is in more need of such sentiments than
4  education, where we cari maintain greater co-operation by moving towards a more innovative, just and more  responsible world. We ask God’s help.
(42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Ladies and gentlemen, we Will now  adjourn but Will resume promptly at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  La séance est levée à 19 h.10  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 19.10  %lUS~EiHHle 32lKpbIBEleTC5l B 19.10  .Lv,\.LwI~LqId,  ~iEFlJl%jlO!~+%%