Trente-deuxième séance plénière
16 novembre 1993, à 10 h.35  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  Thirty-second plenary meeting
16 HOR6PII 1993 r. B 10.35  IIpeaceflaTenb: I--H CA-A (8eMew)
915    RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  aOKJIAJJ KOMRCCklkl III: PE30JIIO~klkI M PEKOMEH,lJALJML/I  d+m$JlJd,lJiJl: WIAII I;tLII*$  %lIl%fi~!YJ%B:&iX+iEN!
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. With your permission, 1 now declare the thirtysecond plenary  meeting of the General Conference open. We shall be considering Commission III’s report on Major Programme  Area II and items 6.9 and 9.2. The documents concerned are 27 C/l51 and 27 C/l51 Add. and COIT.
(1.2) 1 give the floor to Mr Siamwiza, Chairperson of Commission III, who will present the Commission’s  report.
2.1 Mr SIAMWIZA (Zambia), Chairperson of Commission III:  Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to take  this opportunity to thank the General Conference for doing me the honour of electing me Chairperson of  Commission III. At its second meeting, held on 5 November 1993, the Commission elected unanimously, as its  Vice-Chairpersons, Mr Mtio Ruivo (Portugal), Mr Anatoly Shpak (Ukraine), MS Altagracia Bautista de  Su&ez (Dominican Republic) and Mr Hafïd Tabet Aoul (Algeria); and Mr Ahmad Reza Sharafat (Islamic  Republic of Iran) as its Rapporteur. The Commission devoted nine meetings to the examination of Major  Programme Area II and agenda items 6.9 and 9.2, and one meeting to the examination of its report.
2.2 Before presenting our report, 1 would like to pay tribute to the excellent spirit of co-operation which  was apparent throughout our debate and to the excellent work accomplished by our Rapporteur, my fellow  members of the Bureau of the Commission, all delegates present, the representative of the Director-General and  the members of the Secretariat. The Commission ended its work slightly ahead of schedule, largely thanks to  this excellent teamwork. A large number of delegates took part in our debate and made very constructive and  interesting contributions.
2.3 Mr President, the two programmes ‘Science and technology for development’ and ‘Environment and  natural resources management’ were the subject of a single debate during which 91 speakers took the floor.  From the outset, delegates indicated their concern with regard to the methods of work that the General  Conference currently uses to review the programmes of the Organization and to analyse the draft resolutions  submitted by Member States. The fact that a truly interactive debate on the sciences is eclipsed by’the  examination of a large number of very specifïc draft resolutions was clearly of great concem to the  Commission. Another important point underlined by the majority of delegates concerned the written reports as  they now are, which in their opinion, do not reflect the debates but are merely accounts of decisions concerning  draft resolutions. By contrast, the oral presentations, which are comprehensible and objective, summarize the  main points of the debates but are not included in the written reports. It was hoped that an in-depth reflection  could be carried out by the Executive Board and the General Conference itself on the future procedures to be  used by the Conference, and the best means of ensuring the efficient and full participation of the Member States  in this most important forum.
2.4 A number of delegates requested the Secretariat to report to the Commission at the next session of the  General Conference, not only on the execution of activities covered by the draft resolutions but also on the  evolution of the situation with regard to extra-budgetary funds. Conceming the draft resolutions, 1 wish to  report also that although the criterion used by the B*ureau was welcomed by the delegates as the basis for  fïnancial allocations which were unanimously accepted, not al! Member States were happy with the allocation  of funds to their draft resolutions. It was indeed very unfortunate that with only US $660,000, it was  impossible to satisfy all the requests, which amounted to over US $2,300,000, even though some of those draft
32  resolutions really deserved more funds, especially in view of their original nature. Be that as it may,  Mr President, the cake was, alas, too small to share.
2.5 Regarding the analysis of Major Programme Area II, ‘Science for progress and the environment’, the  delegates welcomed me concentration of activities and the progress made in decentralizing substantial parts of  the work plan. Delegates offered wide support for the proposed programmes. Throughout the debate stress was  laid on the need to ensure good CO-ordination and collaboration in planning and programme execution with  other bodies of the United Nations system such as UNEP, WMO, UNIDO and FAO, as well as with non-  governmental organizations such as ICSU, IUCN, OSS and UATI. It was felt that the proposed science  programmes Will contribute substantially to the enviromnentally sound and sustainable socio-economic  development of developing and industrialized countries.
2.6 Mr President, the major@ of delegates gave high priority to Programme 11.1, ‘Science and technology  for development’, and its subprogramme, ‘Co-operation in basic and engineering sciences’. They expressed  their satisfaction with the actions proposed and the efforts at concentration on these actions made in the  programme. Many delegates stressed the need to focus on the development of countries’ human resources in  the basic and engineering sciences. Basic and applied research capacities need to be built up through the  organization of advanced training in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences and engineering  sciences.
2.7 The need for increased efforts in the improvement of univers@ teaching in the basic sciences was  recognized by many delegates, and co-operation between universities within the framework of UNITWIN and  the UNESCO chairs programme was highly appreciated.
2.8 Pilot projects aimed at the training of university science teachers, at curricula development, and at the  preparation of a new generation of distance-leaming programmes received broad support. The creation of  fellowship programmes to be organized in developing countries should be encouraged within the framework of  technical co-operation among developing countries (TCDC).
2.9 Ten delegates called for strengthening the programme in the mathematical sciences and, in this  respect, it was pointed out that optimal use should be made of the International Centre for Pure and Applied  Mathematics, for which the support of the French Government was acknowledged.
2.10 Many delegates endorsed the proposal to transfer the International Centre for Theoretical Physics  (ICTP) to UNESCO, and highlighted ICTP’s unique capacity to provide high-quality advanced training in  physics to thousands of specialists, particularly from developing countries. Several delegates stressed the need  to ensure the functional and intellectual autonomy of ICTP. Some of them insisted on the fact that the transfer  of ICTP should not entai1 additional budgetary implications in document 27 C/5. The long-standing Italian  contribution to ICTP was gratefully acknowledged.
2.11 With reference to chemistry, several delegates requested UNESCO to support the sixth International  Conference on Chemistry, the African Union of Pure and Applied Chemisuy, the International Centre for  Phytochemistry and the International Programme for Chemistry for Life.
2.12 Several delegates called for the further development of major UNESCO projects in modem biology.  Positive references were made to the UNESCO/ICRO training and fellowship programmes in ce11 biology, the  Molecular and Cell Biology Network, UJSCO/IBRO co-operation in neurobiology and the Botany 2000  programme. Many delegates underlined the priority nature of activities in biotechnology and microbiology and  supported the MIRCEN programme.
2.13 Further, several delegates emphasized the importance of activities related to the human genome and  molecular genetics. Mention was also made of the need to increase the involvement of scientists in debate and  policy-setting on bioethics, and especially on the ethical implications of human genome research.
2.14 The majority of delegates emphasized their satisfaction with and support for the theme of  ecotechnologies, particularly with regard to solar energy. They expressed their appreciation of the organization  of the high-level expert meeting of the World Solar Summit Process, held at UNESCO Headquarters this year.  Several delegates urged UNESCO to support Member States in organizing various regional meetings on the  subject of solar energy. This process might lead to the organization of a summit meeting of heads of State.
2.15 Twenty-three delegates made special reference to the launching of UNISPAR, a new programme  created to facilitate and implement co-operation between university, science and industry, a pmcess seen as  essential to achieving sustainable socio-economic development.
2.16 Delegates from several countries in Africa supported the establishment of the International Fund for  Technology Development in Africa. A number of delegates from Latin America mentioned the Bolfvar  programme and urged UNESCO to continue to participate actively in this programme.
2.17 Delegates also stressed the importance of strengthening the following international and regional  networks in engineering sciences: the International Network of Earthquake Engineering Centres, the World  Solar Summit Network, the Common Market of Knowledge, the Engineering Deans and Industry Leaders  Network, the Continuing Engineering Education Network, and the African Network of Scientific and  Technology Institutions (ANSTI).
2.18 A large number of delegates expressed concem regarding the future role the theme ‘Science,  technology and society’ Will have in UNESCO’s programmes, especially the importance of facilitating the  incorporation of science and technology into national socio-economic development planning, and promoting  science throughout modem society.
2.19 In this respect, the representative of the Director-General indicated that the Organization Will continue  to co-operate with Member States on these issues, within the fiamework of the Participation Programme, and  that an additional point would be inserted into the principal resolution on Major Programme Area II, referring  to training in the management of science and technology and in information systems.
2.20 Many delegates from developing countries underlined the importance of UNESCO’s assistance in the  field of science and technology policy and management, and stressed the need for efficient relationships  between the scientifïc community and socio-economic decision-malcers. Some delegates from the Africa region  stressed the need to follow up the recommendations of CASTAFRICA II. Many from developing countries  stressed the important role regional networks such as STEPAN play in strengthening indigenous capacity in the  lïeld of science and technology policy and management.
2.21 Mr President, 1 now corne to Programme 11.2, ‘Environment and natural resources management’. As a  fust point in addressing CO-ordination and co-operation for the follow-up to the United Nations Conference on  Environment and Development (UNCED), 1 wish to refer to me first meeting of the chairpersons of the four  international and intergovemmental environmental science undertakings of UNESCO, held on 4 November
1993, the day before Commission III started its deliberations. As a result of the meeting, the Chairpersons of  MAB, IHP, IGCP and IOC prepared a joint statement which was addressed to the Commission. The innovative  character of this meeting was noted, and the encounter was welcomed as a first step in the process of increasing  co-operation and CO-ordination.
2.22 The general sentiment of the Commission was that this coming together of the environmental science  undertakings was very important, especially within the framework of the follow-up to UNCED. Many  delegates endorsed the joint statement, which they considered to be an important step towards setting the stage  for further action by the secretariats of these undertalcings at UNESCO in Paris, as well as by national and  regional committees and bodies. Delegates endorsed the four priority areas that had been identified for co-  operation: coastal zones; islands; biodiversity; and natural disaster reduction.
2.23 Attention was drawn by many delegates to the important role UNESCO is expected to play in the  implementation of Agenda 21, the action plan of the Rio Conference. There are high expectations of UNESCO  in this respect, in particular, in the areas of science and education, but also with regard to greater  interdisciplinarity in environment and development work, involving all areas of expertise of the Organization.
2.24 Furthermore, the discussion of education and information questions, as well as consideration of the  relevant draft resolutions, was taken up in the joint session held by Commissions II, III and V to examine the  new interdisciplinary and inter-agency co-operation project on environment and population education and  information for human development.
2.25 A large number of speakers referred to Subprogramme 11.2.2, ‘Co-operation in earth sciences; rational  use of non-renewable resources; natural disaster reduction’. The role of earth sciences in the management of  natural resources and the environment was acknowledged. Support was voiced for the International Geological  Correlation Programme (IGCP) as an important means of facilitating international co-operation in research on
32  geological problems and of promoting the wise use of the Earth. Further strengthening of interdisciplinarity in  IGCP projects was advocated. A number of delegates voiced the wish that the programme would expand. its  coverage to include their region.
2.26 The contribution of earth sciences to global geo-environmental activities, and to the implementation of  UNCED’s Agenda 21 was recognized. The role of eartb sciences in monitoring and analysing enviromnental  parameters, and in the exploration and use of non-renewable resources was emphasized. There was particular  support for activities and systems favouring training, mapping, dam handling and waste management. The  prospect of selecting geological sites for coverage by the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural  and Natural Heritage was well received.
2.27 The participation of UNESCO in the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction (IDNDR)  and in the study of natural hazards of bath geological and hydrometeorological origin was widely encouraged.  References were made in favour of the forthcoming World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction. The  activities of existing UNESCO-related centres on earthquakes and other hazards were underlined, and delegates  were informed of plans for a new UNESCO centre, related to the integrated analysis of natural disaster  reduction and enviromnent and development.
2.28 Mr President, many delegates stressed the relevance of the Man and the Biosphere programme (MAB)  in contributing to the implementation of UNCED’s Agenda 21 and the Convention on Biological Diversity.  Several delegates drew attention to the four priority areas - biodiversity, sustainable development, capacity-  building and information/communication - recommended by the MAB International Co-ordinating Council.  Several delegates referred to MAB activities of special importance to them, such as the exploration of  approaches to sustainable development through regional units, the improvement of human-environment  interactions in coastal areas and small islands, and the quest for a better understanding of land-inland water  ecotones.
2.29 As regards biodiversity, it was noted that a forum on biodiversity, science and development, organized  by IUBS with the sponsorship of UNESCO and ICSU, Will be held at UNESCO Headquarters in 1994. Several  delegates stressed the importance of the o-operative effort under the ‘DIVERSITAS’ programme of  UNESCO/IUBS/SCOPE.
2.30 Biosphere reserves reccived much support from delegates and seveml noted that these are being  increasingly used as instruments for national conservation and sustainable development strategies. A good  number of delegates endorsed the proposal that a statutory framework should be elaborated for the international  biosphere reserve network of MAB and welcomed the offer of Spain to host a second international conference  of experts on biosphere reserves in 1995.
2.31 The role of MAB in developing innovative approaches to sustainable development in diiferent bio-  climatic and socio-economic situations was supported by many delegates. The need for MAB to promote the  use of modem information systems such as GIS for ecological research and monitoring was stressed by some  delegates, as was the need to further enhance capacity-building, for example through the creation of a training  unit on forestry in Central Africa, or the new South-South co-operation programme for the humid tropics.
2.32 Mr President, many Member States expressed strong support for Subprogramme 11.2.4 on the  Intergovemmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) and marine science-related issues, firmly endorsed the  decisions made by the seventeenth Assembly of IOC, including proposaIs leading to a strengthened capacity of  the Commission to act as the marine science arm of UNESCO, and underlined the importance of IOC?  relationship with its partners in the United Nations system. Increased synchronization between ail UNESCO  marine science activities was welcomed and further progress in that direction called for.
2.33 Several statements threw into relief me need to ensure and increase the status and visibility of IOC, as  well as the dependable resources required for adequate programme implementation at the regional and global  levels. The important and indeed leading role of IOC in follow-up to UNCED was commended and strongly  supported. Particular reference was made to IOc’s role in global climate change studies, inter-agency co-  operation, development of the Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS) and related capacity-building in  developing countries.
2.34 Several delegates endorsed the work of the Commission with respect to tsunamis and requested that it  consider activities related to the study of storm surges, tropical cyclones and hurricanes, especially within the  perspective of developing early warning systems for these natural hazards. Other delegates requested help to
919    strengthen marine and ocean research institutes in their countries. Some speakers expressed great concem  regarding the setious consequences that could result from the dumping of radioactive waste in the sea.
2.35 Most speakers expressed support for declaring 1998 the International Year of the Ocean, as proposed  in document 27 C/99 (agenda item 6.9).
2.36 Mr President, in relation to Subprogramme 11.2.5, ‘Hydrology and water resources management’, a  great deal of support was voiced for the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), which was recognized as  one of the major programmes of the Science Sector; closer CO-ordination witb WMO’s Operational Hydrology  Programme (OHP) was recommended in accordance with the recommendations of the UNESCOIWMOESU  International Conference on Hydrology. Several countties recommended the strengthening of the Regional  Offices to enable greater development of hydrological activities at the regional level.
2.37 Special interest was expressed in several topics within the framework of IHP, SUC~ as fresh-water  resources, climate change, small islands, humid tropics, water quality, pollution problems and karst hydrology.  Furthermore, several countries expressed concem over the problems of arid zones and recurring droughts and  called for increased research on the matter, particularly in Africa. Attention was also drawn to the dramatic  situation of the Aral Sea and its negative impact on the environment and UNESCO was asked to work towards  alleviating the situation. Considerable interest was also expressed in the Blue Danube pmject and in the  development of research on the impact of the Chemobyl accident on water resources.
2.38 A great nmnber of delegates emphasized the need to accord priority to education and training within  IHP, including the public information aspect; and strong support was expressed for the continuation of the  programme, with particular reference to capacity-building.
2.39 Mr President, that concludes my oral account of the debate on UNESCO’s science programmes in  Commission III. Thank you.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Siamwiza, for this clear and concise presentation, which has given Member  States a good understanding of a11 the issues that have been brought before the Commission.  . . s 6 and 7 - Prouosed resoluhon m document 7.7 Cl5
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we move on now to the adoption of Commission Il& report on Major Programme  Area II and we shall begin with paragraphs 6 and 7, which deal with resolution 2.1 contained in document 27 C/5,  and the related parts of the addendum and corrigendum.
(3.3) Do you have any comments?
(3.4) 1 give the floor to the delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania.
4.1 Mr BAVU (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 thought 1 should say something about the report in general and one or two  points in particular. Fiist of all, 1 should certainly like to commend the Commission for having done very  excellent work, despite the fact that there are SO many demands on it and very little money available to go  around.
4.2 Before the report is adopted, 1 want to say something about a particular problem which concems a  good number of countries in Africa. 1 understand that 23 delegates mentioned and supported a proposai to  establish an international fund for technological and scientific development in Africa, that ministers and heads  of delegarion from Africa had a meeting with the Assistant Director-General of the Science Sector, the acting  Deputy Director-General, Mr Badran, and expressed their keen interest on this particular point, and that after  that a number of draft resolutions were submitted to the Commission requesting the Director-General to place a  substantial amount in the proposed fund, SO as to encourage donors to contribute extra-budgetary funds. This  reminds me of a Japanese saying that if you want to catch a good fïsh called ‘daurade’ in French, you have to  use as a bait a prawn, which is also considered to be an expensive type of fïsh. You cannot expect to catch a  ‘daurade’ without using a prawn. Now we cannot expect to get funds from the international community if the  bag is completely empty, and this is why the ministers who were here requested the Director-General to put a  substantial amount in it, even from the savings which were mentioned during this particular Conference.
4.3 Unfortunately, from reports we have before us, it seems that only US $20,000 have been earmarked as  a contribution for the holding of an international conference for that purpose. Mr President, US $20,000 for a  donors’ conference is very little - 1 doubt whether we could get more than three potential donors to attend such a  conference. We do have a problem here, because we do not have enough funds, although Africa is said to be a  priority, and Africans who were here in the Commission and the heads of delegation have pointed out that  science and technology for Africa is a priority amongst priorities. Yet only US $20,000 has been set aside for  the holding of a conference.
4.4 Now, at this late hour 1 am only going to propose one thing, Mr President. 1 understand that the  Commission had worked out the distribution of the savings which were made available to it and set aside  US $380,000 for Africa. Perhaps, Mr President, we could request the Director-General u> use this amount of  US $380,000 which was set aside for Africa as part of the seed money which should be used as a bait to catch  the fish, the ‘daurade’. Thank you, Mr President.  .L+lll li(~r LS Y,\ JlJiJlt~+ 2 J.U.l +J! y3! ~JLJIJ wl+JI 0,Y
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania for his explanatory remarks and comments.  Member’ States are autonomous and are therefore in a position to grant what you want. 1 am sure that the  Secretariat will only carry out the wishes of the Member States. That should be clear to everyone.
(5.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 ask you to consider draft resolution 2.1 as amended by the Commission.
(5.3) Are there any comments on this?
(5.4) 1 take it therefore that the General Conference adopts resolution 2.1 as amended by the Commission.  Parapraohs 8 to 10 - Work plan
(5.5) We move on now to paragraphs 8 to 10 concerning the work plan,
(5.6) Are there any comments on paragraphs 8 to 10 and the corresponding parts of the addendum and  corrigendum?
(5.7) 1 conclude that the General Conference wishes to take note of these paragraphs.
(5.8) It is SO decided.  wraoh 11 - Draft resolution 27 UDR.383  .Jlgl Ii.& JLiu $1 J&! (jl lit et O,\\
(5.9) Paragraph 11, which concerns the adoption of the resolution on the reinforcement of the International  Network of Biosphere Reserves.
(5.10) Are there any comme&?
(5.11) 1 take it that the General Conference adopts this resolution.
(5.12) It is SO decided.  Parapraphs 12 to 3Q  .l&l VJd ul +t a,\0
(5.13) We shall now consider paragraphs 12 to 28 regarding the work plan, paragraph 29 on the provisions  relating to Programmes Il.1 and II.2 and paragraph 30 on the work plan for co-operation for development and the  Participation Programme plus the corresponding part of the addendum and corrigendum.
(5.14) Are there any comments?
(5.15) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Germany.
6. Mr SCHGFIHALER (Germany):  Mr President, 1 think a minor errer has slipped into tbe addendum and corrigendum, in relation to  paragraph 21. 1 believe that we should not accept this proposed addition, or correction, since there was broad  consensus in Commission III that we should concentrate on ‘policies and the main lines of work of the  Organization’, as the General Conference is called upon to do in Article IV.B of the Constitution. Moreover, we  have adopted paragraph 21. TO invite the Director-General to modify the work plan after taking note of a draft  resolution, would be to go against the wording and the spirit of Rule 78 of the Rdes of Procedure, and  especially of 78A. The same applies to paragraph 16; we discussed this at some length in the Commission.  Tllank you.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Germany. 1 shah give the floor to the Chairperson of the Commission but, before  we conclude the debate, 1 shall give the floor to the delegate of Turkey.
8. M. OBA (Turquie) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais me référer au projet de  résolution 27 (YDR.117 présente par mon pays et appuyé par la Bulgarie, la Hongrie, le Kazakhstan, la  Jordanie, la Roumanie et l’Arabie Saoudite. Dans ce projet, adopté par la Commission III, il est proposé  d’établir un Centre régional de génie biomédical a Istanbul, qui serait affilié à l’UNESCO. Monsieur le  Président, nous estimons que ce Centre, le seul de ce type en Turquie, devrait bénéficier du soutien de  l’UNESCO, car il contribuera à l’image et au rayonnement de l’Organisation en Turquie. Un montant de trois  millions de dollars a déja été investi dans ce Centre, qui desservira plusieurs Etats de la région. Monsieur le  Président, ainsi qu’il est indiqué dans le projet de résolution, un accord sera conclu entre l’Organisation et le  gouvernement de Turquie en vue d’affilier le Centre à l’UNESCO et la contribution de l’Organisation sera  inscrite au Programme et budget pour 1994-1995 ; en outre, le Directeur général s’efforcera d’obtenir des  ressources extrabudgétaires afin d’assurer le bon fonctionnement du Centre. Nous souhaitons que tous ces  éléments soient pris en compte par le Secrétariat. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Turkey. We shall record that, as you have requested. 1 give the floor to the  delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania.
10. Mr BAVU (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 just wished to repeat my request conceming the work plan and the  allocation of US $380,000 referred to in paragraph 26. The importance of the fund is recognized and supported  by the whole of the African group, and 1 had proposed that the US $380,000 for Africa be used for the  international fund for science and technological development for Africa. Thank you.  :&dl 11  & J* 51 SU&~I WI &J SIjrpb Ml&. +1 d,, .idl &I$i $Jw yJ&s. &SI  .l~pLuy @ L.KlI &A .bgJ $& JfyJI -1 JLf;t tm. e* ;lJ Y\ iNb*lill Ji...i:yl
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the United Republic of Tanzania. 1 ask Mr Siamwiza, Chairperson of  Commission III, to reply to the question about paragraph 21 and to clariiy what Mr Bavu has just referred to. I  give the floor to Mr Siamwiza.
12.1 Mr SIAMWIZA (Zambia), Chairperson of Commission III:  Mr President, with regard to the question on paragraph 21,I was under the impression that it was up  to the Commission to make recommendations not only on the work plan but also on other parts of the text. This  matter was defmitely discussed when we adopted our report and it was my impression that we actually came to  a consensus.
12.2 With regard to Mr Bavu’s question, 1 believe that the Director-General Will have no difficulty in  allocating some funds from the Priority: Africa programme, which deals with science and technology. Thank  you.  : &JJI \y.\
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank Mr Siamwiza, who has pointed out that the Director-General Will have no difficulty with what  Mr Bavu has proposed. 1 hope the reply given by the Chairperson of the Commission regarding paragraph 21 is  satisfactoty.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, cari 1 take it that the General Conference wishes to take note of Programmes II.1  and II.2 in document 27 C/5 as amended by the Commission?
(13.3) It is SO decided -.
(13.4) We continue with paragraph 31, which concerns the budget provision for Major Programme Area II as a  whole. 1 would llke to remind you that this sum may be adjusted in the light of the resolutions adopted by the  General Conference in respect of the provisional budget celling and the rodeployment of savings, includlng the  Reserve for Draft Resolutions, and the decisions of the joint meeting of the Administrative Commission and the  fïve Programme Commissions. With regard to paragraph 32, it is connected with the redistribution of budgetaty  savlngs to Major Programme Area II.
(13.5) Do you have any comments on this part of the report?
(13.6) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Morocco.
14. M. AMOR (Maroc) :  Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le paragraphe 32 du document 27 C/151, où il est dit “la  ventilation des montants ainsi alloués pourrait être la suivante : les femmes . . . . I’Afrique . ..“. il ne s’agit pas de  “Priorité Afrique”. Je vous remercie.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Morocco and give the floor to Mr Siamwiza, who will clarify for us one or two  points about the priority areas of Africa and women.
16. IvIr SIAMWIZA (Zambia), Chairperson of Commission III:  Yes, Mr President. If you recall, this was in the reserve sud the Commission decided mat, bearing in  mind the priority areas ‘of women, Africa, rural areas sud literacy, sud leastdeveloped countries, the allocation  proposed should reflect the importance of these priorities within the priorities. Thauk you, Mr President.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Siamwiza, for these chirifications.
(17.2) Ladies and gentlemen, as regards Programme II, ‘Science for pmgress and the environment’, do I take it  that the General Conference adopts the proposed resolution contained in document 27 CE as amended by the  Commission, endorses the budget set out in document 27 C/5 and takes note of the work plan contained in  document 27 Cl5 as amended?
(17.3) It is SO decided.
(17.4) 1 give the floor to Mr Siamwiza, who Will continue his presentation of the report.  mranhs 33 to 35
18. Mr SIAMWIZA (Zambia), Chairperson of Commission III:  Mr President, the rest of the report relates to agenda itcms 6.9 and 9.2, as contained in document
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 ask you now to consider paragraphs 33,34 and 35.
(19.2) Do you have any comme&?
(19.3) 1 therefore conclude that the General Conference takes note of the documents referred to in  paragraph 33 and adopts the two resolutions contained in paragraphs 34 and 35.
(19.4) It is SO decided. Thank you vety much.
(19.5) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 give the floor to Mr Siamwiza.
20. Mr SIAMWIZA (Zambia), Chairperson of Commission III:  Thank you, Mr President. Since this is the last time 1 shah take the floor, allow me to thank all my  colleagues in the Bureau, the Secretariat staff, the interpreters and all those who made the work of  Commission III as easy as it became. Thank you.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Siamwiza. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Mauritania.
(22) Mr DAHMAN (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 just want to comment on the numbering of the paragraphs. A moment ago,  you referred to paragraphs 34 and 35 but the paragraphs in document 27 C/l51 Corr. and Add. should be  renumbered because a new paragraph, paragraph 31, has been inserted. As a result, paragraph 34 should be  paragraph 35 and paragraph 35 should become paragraph 36.1 would therefore like a correction to be made to the  records and to the resolution that has been adopted. Thank you.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Mauritania. We shall take note of what you said. What has now been adopted are  the two resolutions contained in paragmphs 34 and 35. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse the report of  Commission Ill in its entirety?
(23.2) 1 sec no objections. It is SO decided.
(23.3) Permit me on behalf of everyone to thank Mr Siamwiza very much for his hard work and to ask him to  pass on our thanks to the Vice-Chairpersons, the Rapporteur and to everyone who has worked with him in order  to accomplish the task of this Commission. Thank you very much for all you have done.  POINT 5.11 - ADOPTION DE LA RESOLUTION PORTANT OUVJZRTURE DE CREDITS  POUR 1994-1995  ITEM 5.11 - ADOPTION OF THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1994-1995  PUNTO 5.11 - APROBACION DE LA RESOLUCION DE CONSIGNACION DE CREDITOS  PARA 1994-1995  IIYHKT 5.11 - KIPklHSITPïE PE30JIlOqEIM OB ACCIWHOBAHEIRX HA 1994-1995 Fr.  \lqo-\qlf ww qui &IJbltl + & JbI - o,\\ +iJI  Fs(@~RS.lI sfl~l!!r--1995~:fsg~&is!
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we move on now to consider the Appropriation Resolution for 1994-1995, which  is item 5.11 on the agenda. The document is before you and 1 will cal1 Mr Joukov to present the fïndings of the  joint meeting. 1 would like first of a11 to make a correction to document 27 C/l60 Add. and Corr. In paragraph 1,
32  it says, ‘Mr Joukov (Russian Federation) and the five Vice-Chairpersons’. This should not be Vice-Chairpersons  but simply Chairpersons of the tïve Commissions. 1 ask you to correct this in paragraph 1 of the document you  have before you. 1 now give the floor to Mr Joukov.
(25.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation liom the  Russian):  Thank you, Mr Presidenf Elxcellencies, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. It is with great  pleasure that I present to you the results of the work of the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and  the Administrative Commission, which took place on 15 November.  (The speaker continued in English)
25.2 Mr President, the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative  Commission considered the Appropriation Resolution for 1994-1995 (27 C/PRG/ADM/l), which contained  four parts and two annexes: the fnst part related to the budget ceiiing, the second to adjustments within the  budget ceiling and the third and fourth parts to the form and text of the Draft Appropriation Resolution itself.  Annex 1 showed the distribution of the Reserve for Draft Resolutions among the various major programme  areas and transverse themes and programmes. Annex II contained the complete text of the Appropriation  Resolution and the amounts under each appropriation line, based on the adjustments mentioned above.
25.3 During the discussion, comments and reservations were expressed by several delegates. One delegate,  supported by another, queried an entry on pilot projects in Annex 1 under Major Programme Area 1, ‘Education  and the future’. He expressed his concem about the way the draft resolutions had been handled by the relevant  Commission and questioned whether the procedure had been correctly applied. The representatives of the  Director-General assured him that the procedure followed by the Commission had been approved by that  Commission and that the wording of the entry in question had already been changed.
25.4 Another delegate pmposed the enlargement of the foomote (Annex II, page 2) conceming the  breakdown of the additional allocation of US $5 million to the four priority areas. The representative of the  Director-General agreed with this proposal and stated that the Secretariat Will include the appropriate amounts.  These changes have been included in the revised page 2 of Annex II of the Appropriation Resolution before  you.
25.5 A delegate expressed his strong reservations on the Appropriation Resolution which, in his opinion,  was unrealistic in view of the present cash-flow problems of the Organization. He considered that the Director-  General should propose an appropriate plan to the Executive Board which would reflect the existing treasury  situation of the Organization.
25.6 He also expressed concem about the way the General Conference had been organized, particularly as  far as the handling of the draft resolutions was concemed, and hoped that the Executive Board could look into  this matter. He, however, went on to congratulate Commission V on its handling of the draft resolutions.
25.7 At the request of one delegate, the representative of the Director-General confinned that the individual  draft resolutions appearing in Annex 1 and the budget provisions noted or approved by the General Conference,  would be adhered to and reflected in document 27 C/5 Approved.
25.8 At the conclusion of the joint meeting it was decided to recommend that the General Conference adopt  the Appropriation Resolution for 1994-1995 as amended (27 C/l60 Add. and Corr.).
25.9 On behalf of the joint meeting, 1 now propose this Appropriation Resolution for adoption by the  General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
(26.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, the two documents that Mr Joukov has spoken about are now in front of you as  documents 27 C/l60 and 27 C/l60 Add. and Corr. You will remember that the General Conference approved,  during its twenty-fourth meeting on 10 November 1993, a provisional budget ceiling for the period 1994-1995 of  $455,490,000. This relates to Parts 1 to VII of the budget and includes a total amount of $3 million in respect of  the reserve for draft resolutions submitted by Member States. Moreover, it was decided that the joint meeting of  me Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission would undertake to set the fiial budget ceiling.
(26.2) Consquently, the joint meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative  Commission was chaired by Mr Joukov on 15 November 1993, during which document 27 CK’RG/ADlWl  relating to the final budget ceiling and the Appropriation Resolution for 1994-1995 was discussed. As Mr Joukov  has explained, the General Conference is asked to take note of the joint meeting’s report as contained in document
(26.3) If there are no objections, 1 will take it that the Conference has taken note of this document.
(26.4) 1 give the floor to the delegate of India.
27.1 MS SIBAL (India):  h4r President, we are grateful to the Director-General for enlarging footnote 2 on page 2 of Annex II at  our suggestion, as it now appears on page 3 of the addendum and corrigendum; and also for the addition of an  appropriation line for the least-developed countries (at 2. in II.B), as we had requested.
27.2 Mr President, in the joint meeting my delegation also referred to youth because there is an empty space  in front of ‘Youth’ in the Appropriation Resolution as well, and we asked that the footnote also provide an  indication of the amount reassigned to youth. 1 realize that it may be diffïcult to do SO now, at this late stage,  but perhaps in document 27 C!/5 Approved this could be done? Thank you.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of India and give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
29. Mr MIYAKAWA (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 may have misunderstood you. 1 heard mat you would take note of mis  document but 1 think that we should adopt it.
(30.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Japan. We shall do that but, fiist, we must take note of the document.
(30.2) Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other comments?
(30.3) 1 sec no objections. It is SO decided.
(30.4) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
31. Mr MIYAKAWA (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation joincd in the consensus approval of document 27 C/5 as now  finalized. In doing SO, however, 1 wish to take this opportunity to state for the record the opinion of my  govemment with regard to the redeployment of the SO-called savings on staff costs adopted by this General  Conference. My govemment believes that any adjustment of the estimated staff costs resulting from approval  of the ICSC recommendations should be reflected in the nominal budget ceiling to ensure real zero growth as  stated in 142 EX/Decision 4.1 of the Executive Board. My delegation therefore joins in the consensus on the  understanding that, first, the approval of this redeployment of the savings mentioned above, without disturbing  the nominal budget ceiling as it is expressed, is exceptional since it does not scem to be in conformity with the  budgeting techniques recommended by the Executive Board at its 141st session and later approved by this  session of the General Conference. Therefore, too, this approval should not affect the basis for calculation of  the budget base for the biennium 1996-1997. Thank you, Mr President.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Japan and give the floor to the delegate of Germany.
33. Mr DERIX (Germany):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Germany fully supports and shares the views expressed by the  Japanese delegation.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Germany and give the floor to the delegate of Italy.
35. M. LEO (Italie) :  Merci, Monsieur le President. Notre délégation voudrait également appuyer, à la suite de la délégation  allemande, ce qui vient d’être dit par la délégation japonaise. Merci.
(36.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Italy. We shall record what you have said.
(36.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken note of the joint meetings report contained in document 27 C/160.
(36.3) We shall now go on to the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 1994-1995 as submitted to the  joint meeting of the five programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission. The resolution is  contained in the final version of document 27 C/160.
(36.4) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(36.5) Thank you very much. 1 now give the floor to the Director-General.
37. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, on behalf of the Secretariat, 1 have taken note of the proposa1 made by the distinguished  representative of India and, in the context of the General Conference’s agreement on priorities concerning the  least-developed countries and women, we shah also consider that youth should have mis kind of priority and we  shah take this into account when implementing the programme. Thank you.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for these points of information. Ladies and gentlemen, it  remains for me to thank once again Mr Joukov, who chaired the joint meeting, for a11 his efforts in arriving at this  version of the document. Thank you.  POINT5 - AMENDEMENT AU PROJET DE PROGRAMME ET BUDGET POUR1994-1995  (PROJET DE RESOLUTION 27 C/PLEN/DR.3)  ITEM 5 - AMENDMENT TO THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1994-1995  (DRAFT RESOLUTION 27 C/PLEN/DR.3)  PUNTO 5 - ENMlENDA DEL PROYECTO DE PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA 1994-1995  (PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION 27 CIPLENIDR.3)  HYHKT 5 - IIOIIPABKA K IIPOEKTY IIPOIPAMMbI II BIOAXETA HA 1994-1995 II.  (IIPOEKT PE3OJIIOHHM 27 C/PLEN/DR.3)  (y ,j +k/cW >t+tt ta+) \flb-\fqf u^W +j-tJ ,kdt Q+ &ti - b .+t  ilE%R 5 %j (1994--199S~it~II~~~8~~ @Jj@ïE (&ij#$$Z1 C/PLEN/DR.! >
(39) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now corne to the adoption of a number of draft resolutions which 1 hope are in  front of you. We shall begin with the resolution submitted by India, draft resolution 27 CK’LFNDR.3. 1 cal1 the  delegate of India to introduce this resolution.
40.11: MS SIBAL (India):  .Mr President, before introducing draft resolution 27 C/PLEN/DR.3 and the many-prongcd plan which  the Indian delegation has followed in fmally presenting it here to you in the plenary, 1 should like to make an  addition to paragraph 2 of the draft. This paragraph refers to two important conferences to which UNESCO  Will be making significant contributions in the coming biennium. 1 propose that we add, at the end of  paragraph 2, the words ‘as well as the World Conference on Women (1995)‘. We have discussed UNBSCO’s  contribution to this Conference at some length in Commission 1.
40.2 The central concem of 27 C/PLEN/DR.3 is that the issues of tolerance, non-violence and the  environment should tut across all UNESCO’s programmes and permeate each of its major programme areas.  You Will notice that 1 Will not say anything about the issues themselves. These are very emotive concepts.  Each of them - tolerance, non-violence, the environment - sets off a long stream of images and values. They  are well known here and accepted as fundamental. In the draft resolution, we speak of how UNESCO’s work  cari at all times be informed and shaped by these deep concems. These are issues of today and tomorrow. They  are issues which are congenital to UNESCO’s work and to its mission. They cannot be consigned to the sole  concem of the small Division of Philosophy and Ethics which is to handle the Year for Tolerance or the  Division of Human Rights and Democracy, which has been charged with the programme for a culture of peace,  or another small group of oflïcials who handle the issue of environment.
40.3 Paragraph 2 of the note by the Director-General indicates that mis draft resolution has no budgetary  implications. That is correct. Its implications are much wider and, if accepted, these fundamental issues would  shape all of UNESCO’s programmes. 1 would even say, in radical ways.
40.4 The Director-General has been most supportive of this proposal, and his note shows this. He stresses  that the issues related to environment, tolerance and non-violence are at the heart of UNESCO’s proposed  programmes for 1994-1995 and that the present proposal is already largely reflected in document 27 C/5.  Before the present biennium cornes to an end in 1995, the United Nations General Assembly Will have adopted
1995 as the Year for Tolerance, for which UNESCO Will be the lead agency. Already Agenda 21 adopted by  UNCED last year has made significant demands on UNESCO. In addition, our plenary has already decided at  this session that UNESCO is to associate itself with the commemoration of the 125th anniversary of the birth of  Mahatma Gandhi and with the anniversary of Martin Luther Ring. Therefore, the message of peace and non-  violence is very immanent in our work now. The draft resolution seeks therefore to ensure that these  fundamental issues should be a visible part of the planning process for document 28 C/5, the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1996-1997.
40.5 In SO many words, this draft resolution has underlined the intersectoral nature of these issues. 1 would  even say that they spell out a holistic approach to UNESCO’s fundamental concems. The Director-General, in  bis installation speech, and in several references in one context or another to the shining examples of Mahatma  Gandhi and Martin Luther Ring, has propounded just such a holistic approach.
40.6 Mr President, this draft resolution is not coming unannounced to the plenary. The Indian delegation  bas presented five draft resolutions in Programme Commissions II, III, IV and V, each dealing with the work of  a particular programme area. TO list them: 27 C/DR.239 related these concems to the work of Major  Programme Area IV on communication and invited the Director-General to prepare reports and programmes  for the mass media presenting success stories of the resolution of differences through non-violence, of tolerance  and of development in harmony with nature. 27 (JDR.244 was related to Major Programme Area V and invited  the Director-General to examine the relationship between enviromnent and mankind, especially indigenous  peoples who have a traditional life-style of living in harmony with nature and to study its relevance to the  current developmental paradigms. 27 C/DR.246 concemed Major Programme Area III and invited the  Director-General to consider how a balance could bc struck between retention of cultural identities,  environmental conservation and the provision of a life-style meeting the basic needs of the people.
27 tJDR.256 concemed Major Programme Area 1 and invited the Director-General to conduct studies on the  reform of the cducational curriculum at elementary level, to bring about a change in the mind of the Child  towards environmental conservation, the adoption of non-violent means to settle differences and to be tolerant  to different ideas, cultures and attitudes. 27 C/DR.257 concemed Major Programme Area V and decidcd that a  regional seminar on tolerance be organized in the Asia-Pacific region in 1994 to prepare for the United Nations  Year for Tolerance (1995).
40.7 Therefore, you see, Mr President, we have shown one way in which a holistic approach to these  fundamental issues of tolerance, non-violence and environment cari be carried out, in real ternis, by writing  them into each of UNESCO’s five major programme areas. We are sure that the Director-General5 plan Will be  far more ambitious and successful than our own modest one, but we have attempted just such a holistic  approach as we are recommending. Each of the Programme Commissions II, III, IV and V noted its respective  draft resolutions and sent them to the plenary, which has now adopted reports from all Commissions. Oui fïve  earlier draft resolutions are therefore already in place in the spirit of UNESCO% work for the next biennium  and the one that follows it. It remains only to recommend to you for adoption draft resolution 27 C1DR.3 which  carefully and in a prepared manner puts to you the case that UNESCO’s programmes in all the sectors in this  biennium and the next should be interlocked to contribute to preventing further environmental degradation, to  inculcating faith in non-violence and to promoting tolerance.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank MS Sibal, the delegate of India, very much for such a clear submission of the resolution. The  amendment that you have proposed in respect of paragraph 2 is now clear to everybcdy. Ladies and gentlemen,  the resolution is now before you.
(41.2) Are there any comments?
(41.3) 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Russian Federation.
42.1 r-a @EQOTOB (PoccaiicKaa @eaepaqm):  Enaronapro, r-a IIpenceAaTenb. PoccnMcKarf cDeRepaqmr noflRepXasaeT npoeKr  pe30nIotoqEFï 27C/PLEN/DR.3, HO IIpeflJIaraeT BHecTE MmeHbKym pe~aKqHoHHyIo IIoIIpaBKy B  IlyHKT 7: "IIpE3HaBaa MeiKCeKTOpZlJIbHbIii XapaKWp IIpo6JIeMbI OKpy>I<aIOQeti CpenbI, TepIIHMOCTH
42.2 II IIpeKpacHo nomMaI npoqenypBoe 3HaYeHHe more rIoso~emi2, BO He npHHH>KaeM mi  MbI TeM CaMbIM ~ei&'BHTeJIbHbIii MacmTa6 3TBx npo6neM. ~IO~TOM~ npeqIaraeTcrr Bhiewo  "MeJKCeKTOpaJIbHOrO" xapaKTepa 3amcaTb: *.., yHHBepCaJIbHb& XapaKTep npo6JIeM OKpyZlKI~eii  cpefib1, TepmMocm 5i HeBacmmI'. Bnaroflapro Bac.
(42.1) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. The Russian Federation supports draft resolution 27 CIPLENIDR.3 but  suggests the introduction of a small editorial amendment in pamgraph 7: ‘Recognizing the intersectoral nature of  the issue of environment, tolerance and non-violence’.
(42.2) 1 understand perfectly the procedural significance of this clause but are we not thereby understating the  real extent of these issues? Therefore, instead of writing ‘intersectoral’ nature, we suggest ‘... the universal nature  of the issues of environment, tolerance and non-violence’. Thank you.
(43) The PRESIDEllT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Russian Federation. 1 will put this question to MS Sibal in a moment but will  now give the floor to the delegate of Côte d’ivoire.
44. M. KEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Comme vous le savez, la Côte d’ivoire est non seulement un pays de  non-violence mais aussi de paix. Elle ne peut donc qu’appuyer vigoureusement le projet de résolution
27 C/PLEN/DR.3 de même que la demande de la déléguée de l’Inde tendant à ce que soit mentionnée, à la fin
32  du paragraphe 2, la Conférence mondiale sur les femmes, et l’amendement de la Russie tendant à remplacer,  au paragraphe 7, le terme “intersectoriel” par “universel”. Par ailleurs, au paragraphe 5 de la note du Directeur  gtdral sont mentionnés divers projets de résolution : 27 C/DR.239,244, 246, 256 et 257. Nous aimerions que  l’an ajoute à cette liste le projet de résolution 27 C/DR.395, que nous avons adopté hier et qui porte sur la  Fondation Félix Houphouët-Boigny .pour la recherche de la paix et la non-violence. Réaffirmant notre appui à  la delegation de l’Inde, nous pensons qu’avec ce projet de résolution, le Directeur général qui a été brillamment  réélu disposera d’un élément supplémentaire qui contribuera à la culture de paix. C’est pourquoi nous appuyons  ce texte. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank Mr Keita, the delegate of Côte d’ivoire, very much. 1 now ask MS Sibal, thc delegate of India, to  tel1 us whether she accepts these amendments that have been insertcd in the draft resolution.
46.1 MS SIBAL (India):  Mr President, 1 understand very well why the distinguished delegate of the Russian Federation lias  suggested that we should speak of the ‘universal’ nature of the issues of environment, tolerance and non-  violence and certainly we agree with him completely. However, our concem in this draft resolution, as 1  explained in my introduction, was not SO much to speak of the nature of those issues as to ensure that they  would be taken up in an intersectoral way in a11 the major programme areas of UNESCO’s work.
46.2 Might 1 suggest a rephrasing of paragraph 7 which would take into account the concem of the Russian  Federation, as follows: ‘Recoanizing that the universal nature of the issues of environment, tolerance and non-  violence calls for an intersectoral application of these concems in UNESCO’s work’?
46.3 Mr Keita wishes to add reference to 27 C/DR.395. We are, in fact, co-sponsors of this resolution with  Côte d’ivoire and we would be delighted to see a reference to ii in the note by the Director-General, as Mr Keita  has proposed. Thank you.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of India very much but 1 would ask that she read out paragraph 7 once again SO that  we are a11 clear about what is meant. 1 ask that you re-read the new wording of paragraph 7. The delegate of India  has the floor.
48. MS SIBAL (India):  Mr President, let me try to make it a little less clumsy: ‘Recoenizing that the universal nature of the  issues of environment, tolerance and non-violence calls for their intersectoral application in UNESCO’s work’.  Thank you.  :w4dl f’
(4% The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, MS Sibal. 1 think the wording of paragraph 7 is now clear. As regards pamgraph 2, the  addition of the Conference on Women is requested. 1 cal1 Mr Keita once again to tel1 us where he wishes to add  the reference to draft resolution 27 UDR.395, to which MS Sibal, the delegate of India, has agreed.
50. M. KEITA (Côte d’lvoire) :  Monsieur le Président, trois points sont à considérer. Tout d’abord, la Côte d’ivoire souhaite avoir  l’honneur de s’associer aux coauteurs du projet de résolution. Ensuite, à la fin du paragraphe 5 de la Note du  Directeur général concernant ce projet, une série de résolutions est indiquée entre parentheses : “(voir les DR
27 C/239, 244, 246, 256 et 257)“. Nous souhaitons que le projet de resolution 27 (YDR.395, que nous avons
933    coparrainé et qui concerne la Fondation Félix Houphouët-Boigny, soit aussi mentionné dans cette liste. Enfin,  Mme la déléguée de l’Inde avait proposé de faire référence, a la lin du paragraphe 2 du texte du projet de  résolution à l’examen, a la Conférence mondiale sur les femmes. Nous appuyons cet amendement. Comme je  vous l’ai toujours dit, dans mon pays, ce que femme veut Dieu le veut. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(5 1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’ivoire. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 think the draft resolution is now clear to  everybody. 1 therefore ask you to adopt it in accordance with the amendments which have now also been clarified.
(51.3) It is SO decided.  ALLOCUTION DE M. JACQUES TOUBON, MINISTRE DE LA CULTURE ET DE LA  FRANCOPHONIE  ADDRESS BY MR JACQUES TOUBON, MINISTER OF CULTURE AND FRANCOPHONIE  OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC  DISCURSO DEL SR. JACQUES TOUBON, MIMSTRO FRANCES DE CULTURA Y DE LA  FRANCOFOMA  BbICTYrUlEHME r--HA XAKA TYEOHA, MMHPiCTPA KYJIbTYPbI l4  @PAHJSO@OHMM @PAFwMEI
(52) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now take a break from adopting draft resolutions. It gives me great  pleasure to welcome on behalf of you a11 Mr Jacques Toubon, the French Minister of Culture, who has asked to  be here today to deliver the speech of the host nation. The final meeting of the General Conference, as you know,  Will take place this afternoon. However, in view of Mr Toubon’s many commitments, he has been obliged to  attend this morning’s meeting instead and we are very happy that he is here with us. Permit me to give him the  floor SO that he may address you on behalf of the host nation. Mr Toubon, you have the floor.
53.1 M. TOUBON (France) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis heureux de me trouver aujourd’hui à  l’UNESCO devant cette assemblée qui réunit tant de personnalités éminentes du monde de la culture, de  l’éducation, des sciences et de la diplomatie. J’adresse tout d’abord mes chaleureuses félicitations à M. Ahmed  Saleh Sayyad, qui a été élu président de la vingt-septième session et qui préside à vos travaux de façon  particulièrement remarquable. Je tiens ensuite à vous féliciter, Monsieur le Directeur général, pour votre  réélection, il y a quelques jours. L’UNESCO a eu à affronter depuis une dizaine d’années de nombreux  bouleversements dans un monde tourmenté. Elle a su cependant retrouver son énergie et restaurer son image.  Tout cela n’a pu être accompli que grâce à votre action quotidienne depuis tant d’années, à l’action de votre  équipe, de la direction géncrale que vous avez réunie autour de vous, action qui a permis à l’UNESCO de  développer le respect des droits de l’homme, les politiques culturelles, le droit à l’éducation et à la science.
32  Monsieur le Directeur général, qu’il me soit donc permis, au nom de la communauté internationale et au nom  de mon gouvernement, de vous remercier une nouvelle fois. Ce second mandat qui commence vous permettra,  j’en suis convaincu, de tout mettre en oeuvre pour que cette organisation internationale retrouve pleinement le  dessein universel et l’autorité morale qui lui avaient été conférés dès l’origine.  _.
53.2 En effet, conçue en 1945 par des hommes et des femmes de droit et de culture au sortir d’un conflit  abominable où l’humanité avait failli perdre son âme et sa dignité, l’UNESCO a d’emblée prôné des idées  universelles et humanistes. Le pandit Nehru disait de l’UNESCO qu’elle était la conscience des Nations Unies  et, sans citer de nouveau le préambule de l’Acte constitutif de novembre 1945, auquel beaucoup ici se sont  déja référés au cours de cette session, il est clair que votre dessein était, dans l’esprit des fondateurs, un dessein  éthique. Cela veut dire qu’aujourd’hui, Monsieur le Directeur général, la conversion des mentalités dans le sens  d’une plus grande solidarité des esprits donne à l’UNESCO un rôle essentiel à jouer, en cette fin du XXe siècle,  dans un monde où malheureusement sont exacerbés l’intolérance, l’ignorance et les nationalismes.
53.3 L’implantation à Paris de l’UNESCO est pour mon pays, j’ai déjà eu l’occasion de le dire souvent, un  grand honneur qui le conduit avec d’autres pays de grande culture, de l’Afrique, du Moyen-Orient, de l’Asie, de  l’Amérique, du Pacifique ou encore de l’Europe, a partager une responsabilité indéniable dans la défense des  valeurs culturelles et éthiques fondamentales qui sont celles de votre institution. A cet égard, comment ne pas  adhérer aux préoccupations que vous avez rappelées dans votre rapport d’introduction au débat de politique  générale il y a quelques jours.
53.4 Les travaux de la Commission IV consacrés au champ majeur de programme intitulé “La culture :  passé, présent, avenir” et le débat qui a suivi l’examen du Projet de programme et budget pour les deux années  à venir m’ont en effet convaincu de l’importance du travail commun à accomplir. Qu’il s’agisse de la  sauvegarde du patrimoine matériel et immatériel auquel j’attache une importance particulière - je l’ai dit à  Bourges en votre présence - de la préservation des cultures et des savoir-faire menacés de disparition, de la  lutte contre le pillage et le vandalisme, par exemple à Angkor et a Dubrovnik ou encore, il y a trois jours, sur  le pont de Mostar, célèbre entre tous, qu’il s’agisse de la continuité des actions de maintien des monuments et  des sites inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial, il y a complete identité de vues sur les mesures d’urgence  a prendre. Monsieur le Directeur général, j’ai donc le grand plaisir de vous redire que je fais miennes vos  préoccupations.
53.5 Je souhaite que dans les années a venir mon ministère de la culture et de la francophonie apporte  encore un plus grand soutien à l’oeuvre de l’Organisation. Mon administration est déjà impliquée dans l’Etude  intégrale des Routes de la soie et les Espaces du baroque. Il suit de près les projets concernant la renaissance  de la Bibliothèque d’Alexandrie en Egypte, le Théâtre du Bolchoï, auquel prend une part personnelle notre  Ambassadeur Jean-Pierre Angremy, et la Bibliothèque d’Etat de Russie. Enfin, les travaux des commissions  sur la culture et le développement et sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle, présidées respectivement par  M. Pérez de Cuéllar et par M. Jacques Delors retiennent tout à fait notre attention.
53.6 Je souhaite profiter de cette journée de clôture, à laquelle je vous remercie d’avoir bien voulu  m’accueillir, pour dire - et je vous lai déja fait savoir, Monsieur le Directeur général - combien je me réjouis  que l’UNESCO ait accepté de s’associer, aux côtés de nombreux pays, a la célébration du premier siècle du  cinéma. Le septième art est né au pays des frères Lumière. Il n’est donc guère surprenant que les Français  considèrent la production cinématographique comme une véritable oeuvre d’art et c’est là que réside lune des  difficultés que nous éprouvons pour expliquer a d’autres pays, et notamment aux Etats-Unis d’Amérique, notre  position dans les négociations commerciales multilatérales du GATT. Certains pays en effet, et notamment les  Etats-Unis, estiment que le cinéma est au contraire une marchandise comme une autre et qu’à ce titre, il doit  être soumis aux lois du marché comme les autres marchandises. J’ai eu l’occasion, la semaine dernière, en me  rendant à Sarasota, en Floride, pour participer au Festival du film français, cinquième du nom, d’exposer  longuement notre position en faveur de l’exception culturelle dans les négociations commerciales  multilatérales. Je l’ai fait tant aupres de la presse américaine qu’auprès des professionnels du cinéma et de  l’audiovisuel des Etats-Unis, car ce devoir d’explication et d’information me paraît fondamental sur des sujets  où très souvent, les différences de culture conduisent à des malentendus qui peuvent, par le dialogue, se  résoudre. Et je crois pouvoir dire aujourd’hui qu’il y a certainement une meilleure compréhension de notre  thèse, surtout d’ailleurs de la part de certains créateurs américains qui envient au fond le système de protection  de la création intellectuelle et artistique dont jouissent les créateurs européens et, en particulier, français. Mais  le combat que nous menons dans les négociations commerciales multilatérales ne doit être à nos yeux qu’une  étape, une étape vers ce que j’appellerais une initiative mondiale pour l’indépendance du cinéma. Que faut-il
935    entendre par la ? J’ai dores et déjà proposé que soit mise en place une politique européenne - dans le cadre de  l’Union européenne qui, vous le savez, après la mise en vigueur du Traité de Maastricht, est désormais  compétente pour la culture comme pour les autres domaines d’activité - j’ai donc proposé que soit mise en  place une politique européenne tendant à favoriser la création d’un pôle autonome de la distribution et de  l’exploitation cinématographique. J’espère que le Livre vert de la Commission de Bruxelles, qui paraîtra au  printemps, nous apportera les bases d’un tel projet. Mais il faut aller plus loin. C’est dans le monde, entre les  pays de niveaux économique et social très différents qui composent la communauté internationale et qui sont  représentés ici, que doit être menée la bataille de la diversité et du pluralisme. Je souhaiterais qu’a l’initiative  de mon gouvernement, l’UNESCO mette à l’étude un programme mondial de coopération dont l’objet serait de  permettre, avec le concours de ceux qui en ont les moyens - cela veut dire en particulier l’Europe et les Etats-  Unis - de permettre donc a chaque nation, à chaque continent de développer librement sa propre création  d’images et de sons et de les diffuser aux spectateurs et aux auditeurs du monde entier. Cette initiative  mondiale est nécessaire si nous voulons éviter que le monde devenu un a la fin de ce siècle ne s’achève au  début du siècle suivant en un monde uniforme et appauvri.
53.7 Pour terminer, je voudrais souligner, Monsieur le Directeur général, que l’UNESCO apparaît comme  notre véritable conscience universelle. Lorsque, par exemple, vous confiez à Mme Noëlle Lenoir une mission  de réflexion sur les questions relatives à la bioéthique et à la protection du génome humain, vous renforcez la  prise de conscience mondiale sur les dangers qui résulteraient des manipulations génétiques non maîtrisées ou  détournées de leur but initial ; mais vous favorisez aussi la mise à la disposition de tous les pays dans le monde  entier des progrès de la science et en particulier de ceux qui sont faits dans la génétique, dans le respect des  principes éthiques.
53.8 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, tel est bien le sens que la France donne à son  engagement dans l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture. Votre souci  d’universalité et de diversité, au nom des valeurs culturelles et éthiques qui fondent l’Organisation, constitue  pour nous un espoir de relever les défis auxquels nous sommes confrontés à l’aube du XXIe siècle. Monsieur le  Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, l’UNESCO doit retrouver le rôle intellectuel moteur qui était celui  d’unir des hommes et des femmes autour de la culture, autour de ce qui “dans l’homme passe l’homme”, selon  la belle formule d’André Malraux, et qui donne un sens à nos vies et à nos sociétés. Monsieur le Président,  Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie  de votre attention.
54.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur Toubon.
54.2 Monsieur le Ministre, je voudrais, au nom de tous les Etats membres, vous remercier personnellement  pour votre présence aujourd’hui parmi nous. Vous êtes un homme de culture et nous sommes très heureux de  vous accueillir dans cette maison, la Maison des cultures. Je voudrais, a travers vous, à travers la délégation  française, remercier la Commission nationale française pour l’UNESCO, le Ministère des affaires étrangères, le  Ministère de la culture et l’ensemble des ministères qui ont des relations avec l’UNESCO, pour le soutien et  l’aide qu’ils nous assurent. Je voudrais, Monsieur le Ministre, à travers vous, remercier la France, remercier la  Ville de Paris. Cette ville, je l’aime, je l’admire et croyez-moi, Monsieur le Ministre, c’est une admiration  partagée par la plupart des représentants des Etats ici présents, aujourd’hui, dans cette maison, la Maison du  monde. Je vous remercie.  POINT 5 - APPEL EN FAVEUR DUNE ASSISTANCE A L’ETHIOPIE DANS LE  CADRE DU PROGRAMME ET BUDGET POUR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.S)  ITEM 5 - APPEAL FOR ASSISTANCE TO ETHIOPIA WITIIIN THE FRAMEWORK  OF THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.S)  PUNTO 5 - LLAMAMIENTO DE ASISTENCIA A ETIOPIA EN EL MARC0 DEL  PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.S)  IIYHKT 5 - IIPOEKT PE30JIIOHHM OTHOCMTEJIbHO IIPM3bIBA K OKA3AHHIO  IIOMOIIIH 3QMOIIHM B PAMKAX IIPOTPAMMM H BIOAXETA HA
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Lad& and gentlemen, we shall continue our examination of the draft resolutions that are before you. 1  ask you to look at draft resolution 27 C/PLEN/DR.S, which concems the appeal for assistance to Ethiopia. Are  there any comments on this resolution?
(55.2) 1 see that there are no objections and SO this resolution is adouted.
(55.3) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia.
56. Mr NEGEWA (Ethiopia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distingdished delegates, Your ExceIlencies, 1 have asked for the  floor simply to express the sincere appreciation of the delegation of Ethiopia, on behalf of our govemment, for  the presentation of this draft resolution by the General Committee of the General Conference, and for its  unanimous adoption. We also thank the Director-General for his special efforts during the last biennium to  extend assistance to Ethiopia in line with 26 C/Resolution 18 adopted by the last General Conference. Lastly, 1  would like to thank aIl the distinguished delegates of Member States for their continued concem: as most of  you know, the problem in Ethiopia is still existent and we have a long way to go. Thank you.
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Ethiopia very much. We hope that you will overcome a11 the trials and  tribulations cummtly facing this noble country.  POINT 5 - APPEL EN FAVEUR DE L’OCTROI D’UN APPUI A HAITI DANS LE CADRE  DU PROGRAMME ET BUDGET POUR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.6 Rev.)  ITEM 5 - APPEAL FOR SUPPORT TO HAITI IN TBE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FOR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.G Rev.)  PUNTO 5 - LLAMAMIENTO EN FAVOR DE LA CONCESION DE AYUDA A HAITI, EN  EL MARC0 DEL PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.O Rev.)  nYHKT 5 - IIPOEKT PE30JIIOI_IEIEI OTHOCHTEJIbHO IIPEI3bIBA OB OKA3AHEIEI  IIOMOIIJH rA%lTEI B PAMKAX I-IPOI’PAMMbI kl BIOJIJKETA HA 1994-1995  I’l?. (27 C/PLEN/DR.6 Rev.)  \lQ-I\V u^w L;lj& P’;J+J’ J”.I V)i ciyb Jf ~J#ï ,Ltr & .IJj - 0 &+JI  PJ- 1 J +k/fyv)  i#iZJBB 5 @Tf$El994--1995% ~itirl~~$$> (21 C/PLEN/DR.B Rev. > @Jt;lrciJ&i&@fij!i!j~
(58.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now look at draft resolution 27 UPLEWDR.6 Rev., which deals with  the appeal for support to Haiti.
(58.2) Are there any comments about this resolution?
(58.3) 1 give the floor to me delegate of Brazil.
59. M. MACHADO DE MELLO (Brésil) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il n’est pas nécessaire de rappeler ici les graves et tristes événements  qui bouleversent la vie politique et sociale d’Haïti, où tout un peuple, assoiffe de justice, de démocratie et du  respect de ses droits fondamentaux, attend notre solidarité. L’UNESCO ne peut pas et, nous en sommes  persuadés, ne voudra pas ne pas apporter sa contribution dans les domaines de sa compétence à l’effort de  normalisation de la situation en Haïti entrepris par les Nations Unies, avec le soutien - que nous n’hésitons pas  à qualifier d’unanime - de l’opinion publique internationale. C’est dans cet esprit que plusieurs pays membres  du groupe de l’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes, que le Brésil a l’honneur de présider, ont prépare ce projet  d’appel en faveur d’Haïti, qui prévoit l’aide de notre Organisation, dans le cadre de ses attributions spécifiques,  ainsi que dans celui, plus ambitieux, de la participation aux efforts de paix déployés par les Nations Unies, afin  d’y apporter des éléments de compréhension et de tolérance essentiels à la bonne conduite d’un tel processus.  Cet appel a la solidarité ne découle pas seulement des liens qui attachent les peuples d’Am&ique latine et des  Caraïbes à ce pays de notre région, qui est par ailleurs étroitement lié à l’Afrique, d’où sa population est  largement originaire et aussi, de par sa langue, à l’univers latin, donc européen. Notre solidarité dépasse à  l’évidence ces liens plus directs et se situe à un niveau plus élevé et en même temps plus profond : celui de la  solidarité humaine, car il est intolerable de voir violer les droits essentiels d’autres êtres humains. Nous  sommes persuadés, Monsieur le President, que le même esprit inspirera tous les membres de cette assemblée  dans l’appui à l’appel qui est soumis à leur considération. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(60) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Brazil very much. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to adopt this resolution? 1 give  the floor to the delegate of Côte d’ivoire.
61. M. ISEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais remercier les auteurs du projet de résolution 27 WPLEN1DR.6 Rev.  Haïti a été la première Republique noire indépendante et elle est francophone. Vous comprendrez donc que la  Côte d’ivoire soit très sensible, de même que l’Afrique, à tout ce qui touche Haïti. Voilà pourquoi je voudrais  remercier la Conférence génerale et demander à l’assistance de bien vouloir appuyer ce projet de résolution et  l’adopter par acclamation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  :&JJl 7Y,\
(62.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’ivoire. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to adopt mis draft resolution?
(62.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(62.3) 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Haiti.
63. M. ETZER (Haïti) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je remercie la Conférence genérale et le groupe Amérique latine et  Caraibes pour cette marque de solidarité à l’endroit d’Haïti, de son gouvernement constitutionnel et du peuple  haïtien en lutte pour la démocratie et le progrès, en lutte également pour une culture de paix, sans laquelle la
32  démocratie et le progrès ne sont pas possibles. Cette solidaritk se manifeste dans toutes les instances  internationales, notamment à l’ONU et à I’OEA ; grâce à cette solidarité internationale, il y a eu l’accord de  Govemor’s Island qui permet la mise en place d’un processus visant au retour à la démocratie et au retour du  Président Aristide en Haïti. Cet accord a permis d’atteindre une &ape importante, ?I savoir la mise en place  d’un gouvernement constitutionnel en Haïti. Actuellement il y a en Haïti un gouvernement constitutionnel  dthigné par le Président Aristide mais, malheureusement, ce gouvernement fonctionne dans des conditions  difficiles de répression et doit faire face à des contraintes de toutes sortes exercees par les militaires. La  deuxième Ctape, principale et essentielle, c’est celle du retour effectif du Président en Haïti, et c’est là que de  nombreux obstacles sont mis en place par les militaires. Mais grâce à votre solidarité, h la solidarité de toutes  les nations, à celle de I’ONU où les pourparlers se poursuivent, la democratie sera r&ablie en Haïti très bientôt.  Encore une fois, merci. Merci à la délégation de la Côte d’ivoire et à celle du Brésil. Merci à vous tous les  délégués à la Confkence génhle et un merci tout particulier au Directeur gCntral pour ses efforts soutenus en  faveur d’Haïti. Merci.  (W The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Haiti and hope that peace and democracy will prevail in Haiti and that respect for  human rights Will be consolidated in what is for aI1 of us a cherished and noble country.  POINT 5 - APPEL EN FAVEUR D’UNE ASSISTANCE A L’ERYTHREE DANS LE CADRE  DU PROGRAMME ET BUDGET POUR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.7)  ITEM 5 - APPEAL FOR ASSISTANCE TO ERITREA WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF  THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.7)  PUNTO 5 - LLAMAMIENTO PARA LA PRESTACION DE AYUDA A ERITREA EN EL  MARC0 DEL PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA 1994-1995 (27 C/PLEN/DR.7)  IIYHKT 5 - lXPOEKT PE30JIIOLJEIEI OTHOCEITEJlbHO nPM3bIBA 06 OKA3AHEIM  IIOMOIQH 3PEITPEE B PAMKAX IIPOI’PAMMbI EI BIOJQKETA HA
(65.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now ask you to consider draft resolution 27 CIPLEMDR.7, which concerns the  appeal for assistance to Eritrea.
(65.2) Are there any comments or shall we adopt this draft resolution?
(65.3) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.  POINT 17.3 - REFORME DES METHODES DE TRAVAIL DE LA CONFERENCE  GENERALE (27 C/PLEN/DR. 12)  ITEM 17.3 - REFORM OF THE WORKING METHODS OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE (27 C/PLEN/DR.12)
939    PUNTO 17.3 - REFORMA DE LOS METODOS DE TRABAJO DE LA CONFBRBNCIA  GENERAL (27 C/PLEN/DR. 12)  IIYHKT 17.3 - IIPOEKT PE30JIIO4HEI OTHOCHTEJIbHO PEQOPMM METOAOB  PABOTM PEHEPAJIbHOI;I KOHQEPEHIIMM (27 C/PLEN/DR.12)  (\Y &j f/zk/p) yWl $$ll Ja.8 L-yILl C%d - \v,t JiJI  üct!i%~11.3 ï!!JI~k~I~k& ( 21 C/PLEN/DR.12 >
(66.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation fmm the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now ask you to consider draft resolution 27 CYPLEWDR.12, proposed by the  Republic of Korea, Gambia, Philippines, Portugal, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, concerning the reform of  the working methods of the General Conference.
(66.2) 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Republic of Korea.
67.1 Mr PARK (Republic of Korea):  Thank you very much. In addition to the countries listed in the proposa& Ghana and Norway CO-  sponsor draft resolution 27 C/l?LEN/DR.12.
67.2 My delegation and many others were disturbed, confused and frustrated by the restrictive time-frames  sud the complex and cumbersome rules of procedure experienced at the twenty-seventh session of the General  Conference.
67.3 The problems raised by some Member States in this connection include: the unnecessarily lengthy time  allocated for what 1 cal1 a ‘mini-general debate’ in commissions and committees, the extremely limited time  allocated for the discussion of individual agenda items and draft resolutions, the cumbersome procedure for the  submission of draft resolutions and the electoral procedures for intergovemmental bodies. The current working  methods, not the chairpersons of commissions and committees, were responsible for all of these problems. The  persons who chaired the commissions and committees made Herculean efforts through their perspicacious  stewardship.
67.4 We know that the duration of the General Conference was reduced from one month to 20 working days  to tut the cost of General Conference sessions only a few years ago. However, 1 am of the opinion that,  without extending the sessions, the proceedings of the Conference could be conducted more effectively and  productively. For instance, the ‘mini-general debate’ in committees and commissions could either be shortened  or incorporated into debates on individual agenda items and draft resolutions. In this connection, working  groups could be utilized to classify and pre-Select draft resolutions. The cumbersome process for the  submission of draft resolutions could be improved by revising the relevant Rules of Procedure.
67.5 Member States gather here every two years to deliberate agenda items as well as to express their  general views and policies on the programme and activities of UNESCO. Many Member States share the view  that more time should be allocated for the deliberation of agenda items sud the examination of draft resolutions  by improving the existing working methods. 1 sincerely hope that, from the next session of the General  Conference, the working methods Will become au impetus, not an obstacle to a thorough deliberation of agenda  items and draft resolutions. 1 hope that floor Will support this draft resolution.  :&AI IA  .d JL;df ,Jd WI +’ *&JJ $Jm y&-. J-l)%+ I&
(68) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Republic of Korea and give the floor to the delegate of Denmark.
69. Mr GOLDSCHMIDT (Denmark):  Mr President, let me fust say how impressively the mechanism of this Conference has worked:  ahhough the time has been short, we bave always had the papers, we have never been in lack of technical  assistance and advice from the Secretariat. But having said that, the impression of my delegation is that the  time devoted to real discussion, deba&+nd exchange of opinion has been too short. 1 do not think it is only a  question of the length of the General Conference; it is also a question of the way in which the programme of  work is made, how the committees and commissions are combined and composed. This is indeed a matter of  concem to the Nordic countries and in addition to the draft resohnion proposed here, which Denmark supports,  it is also our intention to form a little ‘think-tank’ in order to corne up with a contribution during the next  biennium. Thank you.  : &Jl v.
(70) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Denmark and give the floor to the delegate of Côte d’ivoire.
71.1 M. KEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Monsieur le President, je vous remercie. Tout en approuvant le texte du projet de résolution
27 C/PLEN/DR.12 portant sur la réforme des méthodes de travail de la Conférence générale, nous estimons  qu’un certain nombre de remarques s’imposent.
71.2 De plus en plus, on veut robotiser les choses, avoir recours a des experts, réduire la durée de la  Conférence, économiser. C’est-à-dire que l’on veut à la fois avoir l’oeuf, l’omelette et les poussins. Mais ce  n’est pas possible ; c’est la quadrature du cercle. De même, on confie d’innombrables taches au Directeur  général mais on lui donne peu de moyens. Les conséquences ont là : la réforme adoptée lors de la dernière  Conférence générale à la suite de la proposition d’un certain nombre de pays, plus soucieux d’économies que  de considérations humaines, a engendré la situation actuelle.
71.3 Je suis d’accord avec le délegué du Danemark : le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO a fait son travail, nous  avons disposé de tous les documents dont nous avions besoin, mais malheureusement, lors des débats, nous  avons manqué de temps. Après que l’on ait convoqué une réunion d’Eta&, on leur a demandé de se taire.  Bientôt, on mettra des robots à notre place, Si l’on ne peut pas discuter, ce ne sera plus la peine que nous  venions ici. Je suis d’un pays de tradition orale, dans lequel il y a, non pas des marionnettes qui agissent, mais  des hommes qui parlent, qui échangent des mots, qui apprennent à se connaître ; mais pour cela, il faut du  temps. Il faut donc que l’on sache revoir les méthodes actuelles, et je souhaiterais que le Conseil exécutif, à sa  prochaine session, puisse se pencher sur cette question.
71.4 Pour les raisons que je viens d’exposer, le Groupe africain a refusé le processus de mécanisme  intersessionnel qui fait appel à des experts. En effet, les pays qui ont une délégation réduite seraient lésés par  rapport à ceux dont la délégation est importante. 11 faudrait que les petits pays envoient à lTJNESC0 des  Léonard de Vinci ayant des connaissances encyclopédiques.
71.5 Enfin, on ne peut corriger un aspect en ignorant tous les autres et il faut se placer dans une perspective  d’ensemble. C’est la reconversion des structures mentales qui doit être à l’ordre du jour. 11 faut, de plus en plus,  que l’homme prenne le pas sur l’argent, c’est là le fond du problème. J’appuie la réforme envisagée, mais il  faudrait qu’elle soit en profondeur, et que l’on revoie tout ce qui a éte adopté hâtivement lors de la dernière  session de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  :&.ll VY  .~JJJI JbJI y~.Lil WI +J I J&J ad y>Jir &‘t
(72) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’ivoire and give the floor to the delegate of the Russian Federation.
06-beflHHeHHbIX Haqnfi, a Ei ApyrHX KpyIIHbIX Me>KflyHapOfiHbIX OpraHEi3aI@, C TeM wo6bI Te  IIpO6JIeMb1, 0 KOTOpbIX MM 3HaeM, KOTOpbIc MbI ¶yBCTByeM II 0 KOTOpbIX CerOy[HSI 3neCb  rOBOpBJIH IIpeRcTaBIITeJIII Kopen, AaHmI II KOT R’MByapa, 6bIJIH RoJDKHbIM o6pa3oM y9TeHbI B
73.2 BO-BTopbIx, r-H npeACeBaTWIb, 09eHb Ba>KHO, 'rro6bI BbIpa60TKa HOBMX MeTOflOB  JJeRTeJIbHOCTlï PeHepaJIbHofï KoH@epeHqnH OcyqecTBJIirJIacb ~OcTaTosHo 3HeprH4HO. fl XOTeJI 6b1,
9To6bI MbI m6exa.m TaKoii CHTyaqHH, KorRa CaMH MeToRbI pa6oTbI 6y~y~ 0~06pa~bca  cnenyIoxqeG reHepaJIbHOYi Ko@epeHqHeH, TO eCTb cneflyIoLqa5l reHepanbHaa KOH@epeHQHH 6yReT  IIpOXOAklTb B TeX >Ke TpyRHbIX yCJIOBHHX. R yGexqeH, =ITO y kïCIIOJIHHTeJIbHOr0 COBcTa XBaTEIT II  MYHPOCT& H QeJIeyCTpeMJIeHHOCTH AJIir TOrO, mo6bI He TOJIbKO BbIpa60TaTb IIpc~JIOJKeHIUI Il0  IIOBbIM MeTOflaM pa6omI, HO H AOJIJKHbIM o6pa3oM CorJIacoBaTb I%X CO CTpaHaMH-WIeHaMH, C  TCM wo6bI CJIc~yIOIQaR CeccHH rcHepaJIbHO2 KOH+epeHQHH B JIepBbIfi fleHb CBOefi pa6oTbI  pyTHAH0, IIOJJO6HO TOMy, KaK MbI yTBep>I<naeM IIOBcCTKy RHII, CMOrJIa IIpHHHTb peIIIeHIISI 0 HOBbIX  MeTonax n pyKoBo~c~oBaTbcx IIMII. BnaroBapIo Bac, r-H flpeHceflaTenb.
(73.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairman of the Administrative Commission (Translation from the  Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. As you have noted, the Russian Federation is the co-author of the draft  resolution on reforming the working methods of the Organization. In the discussion on this resolution 1 would like  to note several points. 1 think it very important that in formulating its proposals on the reform of the working  methods of the Organization, the Executive Board should take due account of the experience of a11 the institutions  of the United Nations system and possibly not just of the United Nations system but also of other major  international organizations in order that those problems which we know about, which we sense and about which  the representatives of Korea, Denmark and Côte d’ivoire have spoken here today, are duly taken into account in  this work.
(73.2) Secondly, Mr President, it is very important that the new working methods of the General Conference  should be formulated with sufficient vigour. 1 would like us to avoid a situation where the working methods are  approved by the next General Conference, meaning that the next General Conference will take place in the same  difficult conditions. 1 am convinced that the Executive Board is sufficiently wise and purposeful for it not only to  be able to formulate proposals about new working methods but also to be able duly to co-ordinate them with  Member States in order that the next session of the General Conference, on its fiist day of work, cari,, just as we  approve the agenda, take routine decisions on the new working methods and be guided by them. Thank ~OU,  Mr President.
(74) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Russian Federation and give the floor to the delegate of India.
75.1 MS SIBAL (Indii):  Mr President, we have just heard from the Russian Federation a proposal that other agencies should  also he asked as to their opinions and experience in this area. 1 would also suggest that when the Executive  Board reviews the matter, it should also seek the opinion of the Chairpersons of the five Programme  Commissions at this session. 1 suggest this because in the General Committee we have heard almost all of  them remark about how the working methods have been criticized in one way or another and how they could he  improved. 1 think that they would have very definite suggestions resulting from their experience to offer to the  Executive Board, because they have seen for themselves the difficulties of whatever method they themselves  bave employed.
75.2 1 would also like to support the proposal by the Russian Federation that the new working methods that  are devised in the coming two years should - if possible - be in place for the twenty-eighth session. Thank you,  Mr President.
(76) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of India and give the floor to the delegate of the Gambia.
77.1 h4r SAGNIA (The Gambia):  Mr President, the Gambia is also a sponsor of this draft resolution, and we want to emphasize that  during our deliberations several peoplé voiced their concem with regard to the restrictions that have been  placed on the application of the Rules of Procedure. We are of the opinion that if we are to make a result-  oriented reform of the methods of workof the commissions and committees of the General Conference, it would  be advisable - as the delegates of the Russian Federation and of India have suggested - that international non-  govemmental organizations be fully involved. In that way we Will obtain a realistic view of the criticisms made  and the problems encountered, and be able to relate these to the working procedures.
77.2 One of my concems relates to draft resolutions submitted after the deadline. These, of course, do not  obmin a reaction from the Director-General; but in certain cases - when, for example, a valid draft resolution  relating to necessary programme activities for regional or national implementation is late because of  communication problems - the lack of a reaction from the Director-General might be interpreted as a lack of  interest, and this could lead to difficulties.
77.3 Al1 of this means to say that our Rules of Procedure must satisfy the concems that are expressed in the  commissions. TO this end, 1 agree with the proposal that a questionnaire be sent to Member States, as well as  the suggestion that other organizations represented at the General Conference, as well as the Chairpersons of  the Commissions, be invited to react. Thank you, Mr President.
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Gambia and give the floor to the final speaker, the delegate of Sudan.  i+aII + dJ1 IA+ Ij+ V>+II JL~JI ~JJ~A J&I dli L JI IJLiiyi Ja r’$+ f&l ut JJ~J VI,y  m .+&ut~ &LJJ &dl .IJj && tiu;r%tI ,$A+ +d S&ki &b+ .tmuJ> sd 61 u^yI &S .J;tll $J&  Jlhk fwl $&tI s;L +A f$ï ,jl C$d ;t J& ..IJyI lb &C wll;JII Li;u ;c;LYI yd && ,jl + 9 C;l  Al%.a liyJ yWl *dl &y <jtj .$gl Ii.4 J9A i.+ .IJl .tit -1 t@+ gb I.j (j@ï iJlu VJ  Jlp;JI y>& J+I dli La p cj”i m .LJlill +i~dJ u’qw’ &l Jl &i&l yl;b f& (jl &  .‘,.L’“w+u&;l~ ;+A$ &Ldl d..j ;+A+I +Lyl l h A1 rJlir~ ,~$~i J>dI I;+f3 F&I  .*j+ I& .yWl JLJAlJ *$dl, LUI i&Jl QI+ ti &=&
(79.1) Mr SATTI (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President, 1 have requested the floor in order to express my support for the resolution  currently before us. The question of amending, changing and improving working methods and practices is quite  normal in an organization like ours because there are many new developments that require US to look at OUT  working methods with a critical eye in order to be able to amend and improve them from time to time.
(79.2) I would mention here that the Director-General himself, during the speech he gave at his inauguration as  Director-General for a second term, made reference to the need for such modifications and for improvements in  the working methods of the General Conference. We are a11 in agreement with that. 1 felt 1 should give support to  the draft resolution and to the proposals put forward by the delegate of the Russian Federation.
(79.3) 1 would like to make a specific proposa1 on the basis of what the delegate of the Russian Federation said  in support of the comments made by the delegate of India. It is quite normal for the Chairpersons of the General  -Conference’s Commissions to make various comments on the performance of work and on working methods and  practices, as it is for the Secretariat but 1 would like to propose that the General Committee of the General  Conference prepare a specific document, in which the expertise it gains during the course of its work at the
943    General Conference is recorded and that the Director-General draw up a similar document. These hvo documents  would then be submitted to the Executive Board at its next session. 1 also agree, as do the other delegations, with  what the delegate of the Russian Federation said about these new methods and practices, which must be in place  for the beginning of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference. Thank you very much.
(80.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Sudan. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 think the idea of asking the Executive Board to  look into how the working methods of the General Conference might be improved is clear. We must certainly  make use of the experience of a11 parties whether it be the Chairpersons of the Commissions, the Conference  Presidency or the various United Nations organizations. The Secretariat will, for its part, ask us to formulate  various ideas. Are we to adopt this draft resolution, ladies and gentlemen?
(80.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.  POINT 17.4 - EFFETS DE L’AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL SUR L’EDUCATION  ET LA FORMATION (27 C/PLEN/DR. 16)  ITEM 17.4 - EFFECTS OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT ON EDUCATION AND  TRAINING (27 C/PLEN/DR.16)  PUNTO 17.4 - EFECTOS DEL AJUSTE ESTRUCTURAL EN LA EDUCACION Y LA  FORMACION (27 C/PLEN/DR. 16)  HYHKT 17.4 - IIPOEKT PE30JIIGHHM OTHOCHTEJIbHO BJIHRHHR CTPYKTYPHOfi  I-IEPECfPOkIKH HA OBPA30BAHHE H I-IOAI’OTOBKY KAAPOB
(81.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 now ask you to consider the final draft resolution of this moming’s meeting, draft resolution
27 C/PLEN/DR.16, which has been put forward by many Member States and which deals with the effects of  structural adjustment on education and training. Are there any comments on this draft?
(81.2) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Mali.
82. M. DIAKITE (Mali) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Mali souhaite être coauteur de ce projet de résolution. Nous avons  été associés aux premières concertations en vue de l’élaboration de ce projet, nous avons même signé le projet  initial qui portait uniquement sur l’Afrique. Nous n’avons malheureusement pu participer a la mise au point  finale de ce projet, pour la simple raison que notre délégation est maintenant réduite et que nous avons des  difficultés à couvrir l’ensemble des activités organisées dans le cadre de la Conférence générale et en marge de  la Conférence générale. Bien que ce projet concerne desormais l’ensemble du tiers monde, nous continuons de  le soutenir, parce qu’il répond aux préoccupations de mon gouvernement. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(83) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  I thank the delegate of Mali. There is no problem. We will add your name to the list of co-sponsors of  this draft. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Madagascar.
84. Mme RAVAOMALALA (Madagascar) : Merci, Monsieur le Président. Madagascar s’est également portée coauteur de ce projet de résolution.  Merci.
035) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank me delegate of Madagascar and give the floor to the delegate of Côte d’ivoire.
86. M. KEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout simplement attirer l’attention de la Conférence générale sur  l’importance que revêt cette résolution pour nous, pays en voie de développement. Ce n’est un secret pour  personne que les programmes d’ajustement structure1 ont des incidences très importantes sur les secteurs  sociaux et, plus généralement, sur la croissance de nos pays. Voilà pourquoi nous souhaiterions que l’ensemble  des Etats membres - les pays industrialisés comme les pays en voie de développement - puissent, dans un souci  d’équite, de justice et surtout de solidarite, de tol&ance et de fraternité, appuyer cette résolution afin de  permettre au Directeur gtnéral de venir en aide aux pays qui en ont besoin. Il‘ne s’agit pas de créer un  problème au sein du système des Nations Unies mais au contraire d’harmoniser les choses de telle sorte que  l’éducation, qui est un facteur essentiel du developpement d’un pays, puisse être préservke et surtout faire  connaître l’importance et le rôle que nous entendons assigner à l’éducation dans les différents pays. Nous  l’avons dit ici, mettre l’accent sur l’éducation, c’est mettre l’accent sur le développement, car la qualité du  développement d’un pays dépend de la qualité des hommes et des femmes, et la qualité des hommes et des  femmes dépend de la qualité de l’éducation qu’ils ont reçue. Voila pourquoi nous souhaitons que cette  résolution puisse être appuyée par l’ensemble des Etats membres de I’UNESCO et permettre au Directeur  général de faire du bon travail au cours de son second mandat. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.  :uyojJl AV
(87) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’ivoire. We shall do that. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Kuwait.
(88) Mr FAISAL AL-SALEM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. Reiterating the request of the previous speaker 1 would like to ask that  Kuwait be added to the list of co-sponsors of this draft resolution and that the draft resolution be adopted by  consensus as long as there is no difficulty with that. Thank you.
(89) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Kuwait and give the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
90. M. NDOYE (Sénégal) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous sommes coauteurs de ce projet de résolution, et je voudrais,  comme les intervenants qui m’ont précédé, en souligner l’importance. Depuis plus d’une décennie, nos pays
945    sont confrontés dans le domaine de l’éducation à des difficultés énormes. Nous accusons déjà un retard en  matière de scolarisation et d’alphabétisation ; et ce retard ne peut être aujourd’hui comble en raison des  compressions budgétaires qui sont réalisees au titre de l’ajustement structure& Les conditions d’etude ssnt en  train de se détériorer dans tout le système tducatif, la qualite de l’enseignement, mais également l’accès des  jeunes à l’éducation se heurtent à de graves difficultés. C’est pourquoi nous souhaitons que ce projet de  résolution soit adopté par la Conférence générale et nous pensons également qu’il est important que l’UNESCO  donne suite à ce projet de resolution en essayant d’intervenir le plus possible auprès des organismes qui sont  ses partenaires dans ce domaine, afin que l’Éducation puisse beneficier de ressources permettant de réaliser les  objectifs fixés. Merci.  :&J.ll 41  .d&dI vJ~ LKII +1 .Jli;Jl +>A J-Lu le
(91) The PRESIDENT (Translation ‘from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Senegal and give the floor to the delegate of Denmark.
92. Mr GOLDSCHMIDT (Demnark):  Thank you, Mr President. It was more than 30 years ago that OECD economists taught us that  development and growth were not only dependent upon the work-force and capital but on a third factor,  knowledge, gained through education, which is a very important third factor. We all here in this room believe  that a factor second to none in development is education. It therefore seems counter-productive to ask  developing countries to tut down on their educational expenses to solve their economic problems, SO Denmark  fully supports this draft resolution. Thank you, Mr President.  :uGJl ‘Y  .*kj UJLl LUI +t ,iJwI, &I+.dI .&l;dl ~JJ-L’&~ IN
(93) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Denmark very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 give the floor to the delegate of  Zimbabwe.
94. Mr MHLANGA (Zimbabwe):  Thank you, Mr President. Zimbabwe is going through a period of economic structural adjustments.  This is affecting our implementation of economic and social adjustment programmes. We are very much aware  of the effects of this on education and other social programmes. Zimbabwe would like to be associated with this  propos& join the list of its co-sponsors and urge the General Conference to adopt what is a very important  resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
(95) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Zimbabwe. We shah do mat. 1 give the floor to the last speaker, the delegate of  the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
96. M. PHONEKEO (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Laos tient Cgalement à se porter coauteur de ce projet de résolution.  Nous savons très bien que les effets de l’ajustement structure1 sur l’éducation et la formation dans notre pays  sont très complexes et nous souhaitons que l’UNESCO fasse un effort pour aider tous les pays en  développement, et en particulier notre pays. J’espère que l’UNESCO a pris note du contenu de l’intervention de  notre chef de délégation sur ce point. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(97.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to adopt  mis draft, which has universal support?
(97.2) It is SO decided. Thank you very much.
(97.3) Ladies and gentlemen, it only remains for me to wish you bon uppdtit and to ask you to congregate once  again promptly at 3 p.m. for the final meeting. The meeting is now closed.  La séance est levée à 13 heures  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.00  %iCeJ(laHHe 3aKpbIBaeTC5I B 13.00  J.@l Aa+ \,.. &W1~ugId,  &Y!ffl3EbjOO$+l$Z