Vingt-huitième séance plénière
13 novembre 1993, à 10 h.25  Wsident : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
13 HOX6pX 1993 T.-B 10.25  ITpeficeaaTenb: PH CAlETA (HeMeH)  __
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, good moming. Allow me to declare open the twenty-eighth plenary meeting of  the General Conference. During this moming session, we shall be adopting the report of Commission IV. The two  documents to be examined are document 27 C/l52 and document 27 C/l52 Add. and Corr. 1 should like to draw  your attention to the fact that a11 the different language versions of the second document contain the corrections  con-mon to all the language versions and those specific to each language.
(1.2) 1 propose that the adoption of the report should proceed section by section or, in the case of sections  containing a large number of paragraphs, by groups of paragraphs. 1 should like to stress that we shall examine  and approve each part of the report in the light of the amendments carried out, taking into account the corrections  and additions set forth in document 27 C/l52 Add. and Corr. These amendments will not be referred to  individually. Instead, they will be entered as appropriate in the final version.
(1.3) Inpresenting the various sections of the report, 1 shall follow the order of the eight debates which took  place within the framework of discussions on Major programme Areas IlI and IV.
(1.4) Let me start by giving the floor to the Chairperson of Commission IV, Mr Aoun Al-Khasawneh, who  Will present the first part of the report. The floor is yours.  .
2.1 Mr AL-KHASAWNEH (Jordan), Chairperson of Commission IV:  Mr President, 1 have the honour of presenting the report of Commission IV and wish to take the  opportunity to thank the distinguished delegates for electing me as Chairperson. In presenting this report, 1 am  particularly conscious of the need to strike a delicate balance between being relatively brief, on the one hand,  and reflecting the major trends of discussion and the diversity of views, on the other. 1 have therefore  endeavoured to highlight the major issues and needs addressed by delegates. Al1 the decisions and  reconnnendations by the Commission are, of course, contained in the written report, to which you yourself have  just referred, Mr President, which Will be examined now together with document 27 C/l52 Add. and Corr.
2.2 Names of specifrc Member States are not given except where there is an absolute necessity to record  reservations and facilitate follow-up action.
2.3 The report Will be presented in two parts. Part 1, which follows, covers debates 1 to 4 relating to  culture.
2.4 During Debate 1, from its second to its ninth meetings, Commission IV examined the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1994-1995: Major Programme Area III, Culture: past, present and future (item 5.5);  Safeguarding of the cinematographic heritage (item 6.11); and draft reconunendation to Member States on the  safeguarding of works in the public domain (item 8.7).
2.5 The Assistant Director-General for Culture presented the agenda items and stressed a number of points  conceming Major Programme Area III which comprises three major priority areas: the cultural heritage; the  cultural dimension of development and, in particular, the World Commission on Culture and Development; and  intercultural dialogue. He pointed out that the Participation Programme for Major Programme Area III had  approximately doubled, while the budget for programme activities was increased by 8.4 per cent.
2.6 The President of the World Commission on Culture and Development reviewed the work of the  Commission. He indicated that, working in close collaboration with a wide range of partners and contributors,  the Commission intends to produce an ‘Agenda for Culture and Development’. Regarding the fïnancial  situation of the Commission, pledges made thus far have reached an encouraging total of $2.1 million, while  $3.6 million have yet to be found.
2.7 The President of the Intergovernmental Committee for the World Decade for Cultural Development  presented the report of the Committee on its activities for 1992-1993. In particular, he emphasized the  importance of the mid-term review of the World Decade, and the complementary nature of the World Decade  and the World Commission on Culture and Development.
2.8 A message from the Chairman of the Council of the International Fund for the Promotion of Culture  (IFPC) was read out to the Commission in which particular reference was made to the ‘Artists Across  Frontiers’ programme.
2.9 A statement from the President of the Intergovemmental Committee for Promoting the Retum of  Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation was also read to  the Commission.
2.10 Representatives of 77 Member States, the Holy See and the Netherlands Antilles, and eight non-  governmental organizations took the floor in Debate 1. As far as Major Programme Area III is concemed, the  majority expressed their satisfaction with the new presentation of document 27 C/5, and with the priorities and  concentration which it reflects. Many delegates also expressed satisfaction with the budget proposed for the  Sector by the Director-General, although some felt that the budgetary allocations proposed were still not  sufficient.
2.11 The majority of speakers underlined the importance of the World Decade for Cultural Development,  and expressed the hope that the mid-term review to be presented to the United Nations General Assembly in
1994 would provide an opportunity for greater concentration on the Decade’s tore tasks and in particular on the  first objective.
2.12 Many delegates welcomed the proposed budgetaxy increase for the Decade, but some maintained that  the budget was still too modest. Some delegates expressed the hope that the sum of $1,500,000 foreseen for  Participation Programme requests for Decade projects would enjoy the necessary autonomy in relation to the  ordinary Participation Programme.
2.13 Many delegates stressed the need for the Decade to concentrate on a selected number of truly  international projects of an interdisciplinary nature. These should be implemented in co-operation with other  United Nations agencies and have high visibility.
2.14 A large number of speakers underlined the importance they àttached to the intercultural projects which  are either ongoing or about to commence. The need for a major project dealing with the specific cultural  problems of countries in rapid transition to a market economy was particularly underlined by some speakers.
2.15 A number of delegates underlined the importance of developing further theoretical models and  practical know-how for the integration of cultural considerations into development projects and programmes.
2.16 In this respect, a few delegates drew attention to the importance in the draft programme of the project  to design methodological tools for incorporating the cultural dimension into development projects.
2.17 The majority of delegates welcomed the creation of a World Commission on Culture and Development  and stressed its vital role in putting the issue on the international agenda. Many speakers, however, expressed  concem about the risk of overlapping between the Commission, the Decade itself and work carried out within  programme sectors. A few speakers expressed their concem at the fact that the extra-budgetary financing of the  Conunission’s work was still not guaranteed.
2.18 As regards Subprogramme 111.1.1, Protection of sites, monuments and cultural property, a number of  delegates expressed their satisfaction at the importance given to the protection of the physical cultural heritage.
2.19 The majority of speakers voiced strong support for UNESCO’s endeavours to promote the  implementation of the 1972 Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, and the  systematic monitoring of the sites inscribed on the World Heritage List. The proposal to create a flexible  structure for emergency action to permit rapid and effective intervention and preliminary safeguarding  assistance in the event of natural or human-made disasters was welcomed by many speakers. Others expressed  their appreciation of the work carried out by the UNESCO World Heritage Centre.
2.20 A number of speakers welcomed the idea of setting up within UNESCO a specialized data bank for the  systematic monitoring of world heritage sites.
2.21 A large number of speakers expressed support for an innovative communication and education plan  designed to increase public awareness and support for UNBSCO’s work in preserving world heritage sites.
2.22 Several speakers stressed the importance of completing the inventories which are an important  planning instrument for the world cultural and natural heritage. They Will also contribute to the global and  thematic studies to be carried out by the Centre. Some mentioned the need to broaden the concept of world  heritage with the incorporation of cultural landscapes and underwater archaeology.
2.23 One delegate expressed the hope that the recommendations of the group of experts on the  implementation of the 1972 Convention (Washington, D.C., 1992) would be widely disseminated in all  UNESCO Member States. He informed the Commission that an Organization of World Heritage Cities had  been recently established with UNESCO’s help with headquarters in Quebec, Canada
2.24 Several speakers underlined the interest of their countries in ongoing safeguarding programmes and  indicated to the Commission they were prepared to contribute further to certain safeguarding projects. They  include the conservation of Angkor, the restoration of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, and the  restoration of monuments destroyed during the conflict in Bosnia and Croatia.
2.25 A number of speakers proposed that the possibility of reinforcing the legal framework for the  protection of the physical cultural heritage be studied. This could be done especially by strengthening the  implementation of the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (The  Hague, 1954) and its Protocol which would also encourage the adherence of additional States. Speakers  underlined the necessity of establishing greater co-ordination between the legal instruments conceming the  protection of the cuhural heritage, drawn up under the aegis of UNESCO, and existing European instruments.
2.26 Certain delegates expressed their interest in the creation of a mechanism which would facilitate  UNESCO’s rapid assistance in emergency circumstances. Some speakers supported the creation of a corps of  specialists for the protection of cultural property.  .
2.27 With regard to the illicit traffic of movable cultural property, several delegates expressed the wish that  the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Retum of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or  its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation should reinforce its action. This would promote a more extensive  application of the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and  Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property (1970). Some speakers mentioned the utility of creating a data base  on stolen cultural property. They also suggested that national inventories of cultural property be drawn up, one  speaker expressing his government’s wish that an international convention for the protection of movable  cultural property of exceptional universal value be elaborated, similar to the existing convention on the  inunovable heritage. Several delegates supported the activities presently undertaken within the framework of  UNIDROIT with UNESCO’s close participation.
2.28 A number of representatives of States which benelit from international safeguarding campaigns  endorsed the action planned in this lïeld. After expressing their appreciation of UNESCO’s efforts in
28  implementing these campaigns, they appealed to the international community to seek new sources of financial  assistance.
2.29 Several delegates expressed their satisfaction at the co-operation with the International Centre for the  Study of the Preservation and the Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM), the International Council on  Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) and the International Council of Museums (ICOM), and stressed that  international governmental and non-govemmental organizations should play a greater role in the conservation  of cultural heritage. The importance of relying on regional and subregionai organizations was emphasized since  it would enhance the development of South-South co-operation.
2.30 Several speakers expressed the wish that greater attention be given to training activities for local  specialists, to the creation of national institutions and to the provision of appropriate materials and equipment  for preservation and restoration.
2.31 Numerous delegates drew attention to the scarcity of facilities and equipment which inhibited the  development of museums. They requested greater emphasis on uaining activities for specialists in conservation  techniques and for museum managers. Several speakers informed the Commission that their countries were  ready to receive trainees in these fields in their specialized institutions.
2.32 As to the international programme for the safeguarding and development of the site of Angkor,  reference was made to the need to emphasize both conservation of Angkor’s natural resources and preservation  of cultural assets. The recent establishment of the Intergovemmental Committee for the Safeguarding and  Development of Angkor, under the co-chairmanship of France and Japan, to which UNESCO Will serve as  secretariat, was welcomed. Several speakers indicated that their countries were ready to contribute to  safeguarding activities for this site.
2.33 Regarding Subprogramme 111.1.2, Intangible cultural heritage, the majority of the representatives of  Member States who took the floor expressed their satisfaction with this programme which, as one  representative said, has been given new energy. They attached great importance to the safeguarding of  endangered languages, including the languages of minorities, and to the safeguarding and transmission of oral  traditions, traditional music, traditional dance, popular theatre and performing arts. The Secretariat was invited  to strengthen CO-ordination and co-operation with regional and subregional institutions, centres and  associations concemed.
2.34 The idea of creating an international data/documentation centre on endangered languages, a project for  the establishment of Balkan archives on folklore and a pilot project for the creation of an interregional network  of research institutions, on the basis of a European Centre for Traditional Culture, to undertake the collection  and revival of traditional cultures of Eastem and Central Europe were welcomed.
2.35 Many delegates expressed the wish that greater priority be accorded to living languages.
2.36 Some delegates emphasized the indispensable role of cultural festivals in the preservation of the  intangible cultural heritage.
2.37 Two delegates noted with satisfaction the activities specifically aimed at the safeguarding and revival  of the intangible cultural heritage of Hué, closely linked with the ongoing safeguarding campaign in that area.
2.38 The theme of traditional music took a prominent place in the debate. One delegate offered the co-  operation of the specialized music centre in his county with other interested institutions of the world.
2.39 Two representatives congratulated UNESCO on the launching of its new Video Collection of Minority  Cultures and expressed their satisfaction that the focus of the collection Will be on China and tbe Member  States of the former USSR.
2.40 Regarding Subprogramme 111.2.1, Cultural identities and intercultural dialogue, many delegates  expressed their support for the programme conceming cultural pluralism and the rights of persons belonging to  minorities. Some countries emphasized the importance of cultural pluralism as an intellectual requirement of  our time. Others underlined the importance of intercultural dialogue as a means of combating racism and  xenophobia. Several speakers indicated their support for intercultural projects including the Silk Roads,  Baroque World, Slave Route, ACALAPI (contribution of Arab culture to Ibero-American cultures via Spain  and Portugal), Maya World and Latin America-Caribbean 2000 projects. Projects such as Runesmed (UNESCO
829    Network for the Meditermnean), Women of the Mediterranean for Peace, Roads of Faim and Blue Danube  received support from several delegates.
2.41 Some delegates also indicated their support for projects related to Central and Eastem Europe, as well  as other projects related to the commemoration of the ‘Encounter of the Two Worlds’.
2.42 Some delegations strongly supported the protection of indigenous populations. Others advocated the  promotion of Slav cultures. The delegate of Viet Nam announced that an international conference on relations  between major@ and minority ethnie groups bringing together Abican, Asian and European experts Will be  held in 1994. Finally, the Nomads project was supported by a number of Member States.
2.43 Some delegates supported the continuation and completion of the General and Regional Histories.  These concem especially the General History of Lutin America and the General History of the Caribbean, the  History of the Scientijîc and Cultural Development of Humanify and the History of the Civilizations of Central  Asia.
2.44 Many of the delegates expressed satisfaction witb the proposed activities in Subprogramme 111.2.2,  Artistic creation and copyright. The fellowship programme for Young artists, activities conceming the  application of the Recommendation conceming the Status of the Art&, the Ten-Year Plan of Action for the  Development of Crafts in the World, the ‘Culture train’ and the hundredth anniversary of the cinema were  particularly appreciated.
2.45 Two delegates called for UNESCO’s support for major regional and international events scheduled to  take place in their countries during the next biennium: the African Crafts fair (SIAO) in Burkina Faso, and the  fnst Islamic Artisans-at-Work Festival in Pakistan.
2.46 Several delegates, as well as representatives of NGOs in artistic fields, stressed the need to strengthen  UNESCo’s co-operation with their organizations.
2.47 Many delegations expressed their support for Subprogramme 111.2.3, Books and reading. The impact  of new technologies in the book field was stressed by several delegations. Numerous delegations also insisted on  the importance of strengthening cultural industries, such as the book industry, for endogenous cultural and  economic development, particularly in the leastdeveloped countries. Most speakers emphasized the need to  encourage reading among children and Young people. Reference was also made to the role of women in the  book professions and reading for leisure.
2.48 Several delegations stressed the need to increase literary translations from minority languages through  the UNESCO series of Representative Works, while taking tare to ensure an equitable balance among the  different languages.
2.49 Twelve delegations stressed the importance of copyright and neighbouring rights and the need to  combat the piracy of intellect& works. Some emphasized the urgent need for legal assistance and training in  Central and Eastem European States as well as in the least-developed countries.
2.50 As to item 6.11 - Safeguarding of the cinematographic heritage, many delegates expressed support for  draft resolutions 27 UDR.23 and 27 UDR.92 on this item of the agenda.
2.51 The debate on item 8.7 - Draft recommendation to Member States on the safeguarding of works in the  public domain, was concluded by recommending the General Conference to adopt a resolution which, in its  operative paragraph, stipulates that: ‘The General Conference, çagsiders that, at the present time, there is no  need to adopt a specific international instrument for tbe safeguarding of works in me public domain’.
2.52 One delegate proposed that, even if the recommendation were not adopted, the following text should  be added to the Preamble: ‘Recognizing tbat moral right, based on the very personality of the author,  constitutes the most sufficient protection and that its duration should be encouraged after the expiration of  patrimonial rights’.
2.53 Two delegates also expressed reservations conceming this resolution.
2.54 Mr President, this brings me to the end of the report on Debate 1. 1 shall now move on to Debate 2  which took place at the sixth and seventh meetings of the Commission.
2.55 The Assistant Director-GeneraI for Culture introduced this debate, which related to items 6.10 and 8.5  on the reinforcement of UNESCO’s action for the protection of the cultural heritage and the Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (The Hague, 1954).
2.56 The 13 delegations which spoke on these items, which were dealt with together, expressed their  support for the work of the Secretariat. With a view to further strengthening the application of the Convention,  the Netherlands Govemment proposed an amendment to the draft resolution contained in document 27 C/lOO.  The draft resolution was adopted with the additional paragraph proposed by the Netherlands. Two delegates  warned against the possibiiity of intervention to preserve cultural monuments infringing rights of sovereignty.
2.57 That, Mr President, brings me to the end of the report on Debate 2. 1 propose now to report on  Debate 3, covering item 6.2, namely, Jerusalem and the implementation of 26 C/Resolution 3.12.
2.58 At its ninth meeting, the Chairperson of the Commission proposed to examine item 6.2. One delegate  suggested that the item be deferred to a later meeting of the Commission, in order to allow for further  consultations with a view to adopting a recommendation on the item by consensus. A vote took place:
37 delegates were in favour of deferring the examination of the item, 18 were against and 16 abstained.
2.59 The Commission, therefore, examined this item at its seventeenth meeting. Introducing the item, the  Chairperson explained that, following intensive consultation, a new draft resolution (27 C/COM.IV/DR.2 Rev.)  had been prepared and was presented by the Bureau of the Commission. The Commission then decided, by  consensus, to recommend to the General Conference that it adopt draft resolution 27 C/COM.IV/DR.2 Rev.  After the recommendation was adopted, four delegates took the floor to express their satisfaction at the  consensus on this item, and thanked the Bureau and the Secretariat for having contributed to this result.
2.60 That, Mr President, brings me to the end of the report on Debate 3.1 shah now move on to Debate 4.
2.61 At its seventh session, the Commission examined item 17.1, ‘The situation and safeguarding of the  cultural and architectural heritage of Croatia and the situation of the educational and cultural establishments’  submitted by Croatia. The Commission had before it document 27 CLBUR/2. The Assistant Director-General  for Culture introduced the item. The delegate of Croatia thanked UNESCO for its invaluable co-operation and  explained the problems facing Croatian institutions in protecting immovable and movable property.
2.62 He went on to speak of specilic diffïculties conceming the retum of stolen movable cultural property.  Another delegate also took the floor. The Assistant Director-General for Culture, in his reply, confirmed that  UNESCO would continue to support the action taken by local authorities wherever cultural property is  endangered by armed conflict. As no draft resolution was submitted, no recommendation was adopted on this  item.
2.63 Mr President, that concludes my presentation of Part 1 of the report of Commission IV. Thank you.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie): /
1 should like to thank Mr Al-Khasawneh for this clear and detailed presentation of the four debates  contained in Part 1 of your report. We shall now proceed to examine the draft report.  Ea!u I
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 should be grateful if you would now turn to the general introduction to the  report, namely paragraphs 1 to 6.
(3.3) Are there any comme&? As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken  note of this part of the report.
(3.4) It is SO gecided.  Item 5.5 - Maior - Culture:  . . Item 6.11 - Safeeuarding  Item 8.7 - Draft
(3.5) 1 should be grateful if you would now turn to Debate 1 of the report and examine the two opening  paragraphs.
(3.6) Are there any comments? As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken  note of this part of the report.
(3.7) It is SO decided
(3.8) We shall now consider paragraphs 3 to 13 of the report, which relate to the following matters: the draft  resolutions which were referred to another commission (para. 3); the draft resolutions which were amended  (para. 4); the draft resolutions which were withdrawn prior to the debate (para. 5); the amendments which were  not accepted on forma1 grounds, in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 78A of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference (paras. 6 and 7); the amendment of the work plan in accordance with draft resolution
27 C/DR.16O.pmposed by Nigeria (paras. 8 and 9); the draft resolutions whose sponsors accepted the Director-  General’s reply or which were withdrawn in the light of this reply (para. 10); the draft resolutions conceming  amendments to the work plan; the draft resolutions which the General Conference cari take note of and which  have no budgetary implications (para. ll), particularly draft resolution 27 UDR.320 proposed by Cuba,
28  concerning the work plan (para. 12); and fïnally, the draft resolutions which have a bearing on the budget in the  context of the Reserve established to finance the draft resolutions (para. 13).
(3.9) Are there any comments?
(3.10) 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Philippines.
4. MS MANALO (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr President. Witb regard to paragraph 13, the Philippines was a co-sponsor of draft  resolution 27 UDR.92 Rev. and we would wish reference to that fact to be included in the text. Thauk you, Sir.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Philippines. Your intervention Will be noted. Are there any other comments?
(5.2) As there are no further comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of this part of  the report.
(5.3) It is SO decided.  mraphs 14 to 24
(5.4) 1 now invite you to consider paragraphs 14 to 24 concerning the draft resolutions, bath amended and  unamended, which the General Conference recommends should be adopted for inclusion in Volume 1  (Resolutions) of the Records of the General Conference.
(5.5) Are there any comments?
(5.6) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of paragraph 14 and to  have adopted the draft resolutions set forth in paragraphs 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24. Please bear in  mind that paragraph 16 Will be deleted from the final version of the report.
(5.7) It is SO decided.  raphs 25 to 35
(5.8) 1 now invite you to examine paragraphs 25 to 35. This section of the report contains recommendations  concerning the following matters: the draft resolutions which have a bearing on the proposed resolutions and  which were deemed not to require adoption (para. 25); adoption of the proposed resolution, as amended in  accordance with draft resolutions 27 UDR.194 and 27 UDR.325 (para. 26); the resolutions of which the General  Conference cari take note (para. 27); adoption of the resolution conceming the World Decade for Cultural  Development (para. 28); redeployment of budget savings (para. 29); the appropriation (para. 30); the work plan  (para. 31); agenda items 6.11 and 8.7 of the agenda (paras. 32 and 33); the reservations expressed by certain  Member States (para. 34); the support of the Commission for the promotion of certain activities (para. 35).
(5.9) Are there any comments?
(5.10) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Argentina.
(6) MS SALAS DE ESPADA (Argentina) (Translation fmm the Spanish):  h$ President, 1 am referring to paragraph 34. 1 should simply like to make it clear that the reservation  voiced by Argentina in commission meant that we were in agreement with the draft recommendation contained in  document 27 Cl40. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Argentina. We shall take note of your statement. You also pointed out these  reservations within me framework of the Commission. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of the Philippines.
8. MS MANALO (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr President. With reference to paragraph 35, may 1 request the addition of the words  ‘and the Philippines’ after the words ‘supported by the Republic of Korea’ at the end of the paragraph. Thank  you, Sir.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Philippines. Your request Will be met.
(9.2) SO, ladies and gentlemen, as there are no further comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have  taken note of paragraphs 25, 27, 29, 31, 34 and 35 of this part of the report, particularly the work plan for Major  Programme Area III, to have approved the related appropriation of funds set forth in paragraph 30 and to have  adopted proposed resolution No. 3.1 in its amended form, contained in paragraph 26, together with the resolutions  set forth in paragraphs 28,32 and 33.
(9.3) It is SO decide<i.  Item 8.5 - Protection of Cultural Prooerty in the Event of hed CO nflict
(9.4) In the context of Part 1 of the report, we shall now examine the sections relating to Debate 2 conceming  items 8.5 and 6.10, which deal respectively with the following: “The Convention for the Protection of Cultural  Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (The Hague Convention, 1954)” and the “Report by the Director-General  on the reinforcement of UNESCO’s action for the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage”.  Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this part of the report present a review of the progress of the debates. Paragraph 3 sets forth  the amended text of the resolution, which may be adopted by the General Conference in this field. Paragraph 4  refers to the reservations expressed by two Member States with regard to this amendment.
(9.5) Are, there any comments?
(9.6) As there are no comments, 1 shall consider the General Conference to have taken note of paragraphs 1, 2  and 4 and to have adopted the amended resolution contained in paragraph 3.
(9.7) It is do decided.
(9.8) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Germany.
10. Mr DERIX (Germany):  Thank you very much, Mr President. 1 just have a point of clarification. Do 1 understand you to have  said that the resolution on the Hague Convention contained in document 27 C/lOO, as amended, had been  adopted?
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Germany. However, 1 have already said and repeated that the draft resolution has  been adopted.  Item 6.2 - Jerusalem and the implementation of 26 C/Resolution 3.12
(11.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now move on to the section of the report relating to Debate 3, which  deals with item 6.2 of the agenda: ‘Jerusalem and the implementation of 26 CIResolution 3.12’.
(11.3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 describe the course of the debate while paragraph 3 contains the text of the  resolution which Commission IV has recommended to the General Conference for adoption. Paragraph 4 notes  that four delegates intervened to express their satisfaction at the decision taken by the Commission.
(11.4) In this regard, it should be noted that the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran has expressed  reservations in a letter to the Chairperson of the Commission.
(11.5) Are there any comments?
(11.6) As there are no cknments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of paragraphs 1, 2 and
4 and to have adopted the resolution contained in paragraph 3 of this part of the report.
(11,7) It is SO decided.  Item 17.1 - The situation and safeguardinz of the cultural and architectural heritwe of Croatie,  and the situation of the educatlonal and cultural institutions
(11.8) We shall now examine the last section of Part 1 of the report of Commission IV. This section relates to  Debate 4 on item 17.1 of the agenda, concerning the situation and safeguarding of the cultural and architectural  heritage of Croatia and the situation of the educational and cultural institutions.
(11.9) Paragraphs 1 and 2 summarize the course of the discussions which took place with regard to this item,  in respect of which no draft resolution has been submitted.
(11.10) Are there any comments?
(11.11) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of this section of the  report.
(11.12) It is SO decided.  II Part
(11.13) We shall now proceed to examine Part II of the report of Commission IV. Let me recall that this part  covers the following sections:  Debate 5: Major Programme Area IV and, in particular, Programmes 1 and 2 which relate to  communication;  Debate 6: General Information Programme;  Debate 7: Major Programme Area IV - Informatics;  Debate 8: Part ILB - Transverse Themes, Programmes and Activities - Chapter 5: Clearing house.
(11.14) In addition to a11 these programmes and in close connection with them, the Commission discussed  item 6.5: ‘Implementation of 26 UResolution 17 with a view to adopting a coherent approach to the  Organization’s information activities’. In Debate 6, the Commission discussed item 16.3: ‘The situation of the  cultural and architectural heritage and of the cultural and educational institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina’.
(11.15) After this brief overview, 1 cal1 on the Chairperson of Commission IV to present Part II of the  Commission’s report. Mr Aoun Al-Khasawneh now has the floor.
(12.1) Mr AL-KHASAWNEH (Jordan), Chairperson of Commission IV (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. This report on Debates 5 to 8 concerning Major Programme Area IV and the  clearing house forms Part II of our Commission’s report to me General Conference on its proceedings.
(12.2) During Debate 5, which took place from the tenth to the thirteenth meetings, the Commission  considered under item 5.5: Major. Programme Area IV - Communication, information and informatics in the  service of humanity; Programme IV.1 - The free flow of ideas by Word and image; and Programme IV.2 -  Development of communication.
(12.3) After the opening of the debate, the Assistant Director-General for Communication, Information and  Informatics took the floor. A statement was then made by the Chairpemon of the Intergovemmental Council of the  International Programme for me Development of Communication (IPDC).
(12.4) During the debate, the floor was taken by 63 delegates, the representative of Palestine and the  representatives of one intergovernmental and one non-govemmental organization.
(12.5) The Communication programme and subprogrammes received unanimous support, the delegates  expressing their general approval of the structure, content and priorities of the programme.
(12.6) Most of the delegates expressed their support for the programme’s objective of encouraging the free  flow of ideas by word and image at the international and national levels and a wider and better balanced  dissemination of information. Several delegates also expressed support for the programme’s objective of  increasing the number of radio and television programmes produced in developing countries to be broadcast in the
28  industrialized countries. Many delegates drew attention to the importance of promoting and encouraging the  exchange of programmes among developing counties.
(12.7) Strong support was expressed for the proposed action to promote press freedom and the development of  pluralist and independent media, which were recognized to be fundamental elements of any democratic society.  Some delegates underlined the importance of editorially independent public service media in the fields of culture  and education and of the flow of news and information between urban and rural areas in developing countries.  Others noted that tare should be exercised not to equate media privatization with media independence and  wamed against the encouragement of unrestrained privatization, a phenomenon which could tum the media in  new democracies, developing countries, Eastern Europe and Central Asia into vehicles for excessive  commercialization, which fail to pay adequate attention to cultural and educational needs.
(12.8) Several delegates supported the proposed holding of seminars on media independence and pluralism,  one to be organized in 1994 in Santiago (Chile) for Latin America and the Caribbean, and another in 1995 for the  Arab States. Some speakers requested appropriate follow-up activities and evaluation of the impact of the  proposed seminars, as well as of the earlier ones organized in Windhoek (1991) and Alma Ata (1992).
(12.9) Several delegates welcomed the proposed assistance to be given to Member States in order to prepare  new media laws and stressed the significance of such laws in the process of democratization. They also raised the  questions of ethics and responsibility in the work of media professionais and called on UNESCO to encourage  professional organizations to address these issues.
(12.10) A number of delegates expressed concem over violence in the media and its potentially harmful impact,  particularly on children and ~011th. They proposed that UNESCO should initiate discussions and studies of this  issue at international level. Some speakers expressed concern over the concentration of ownership in the  communication industry which threatens pluralism, cultural diversity and identity.
(12.11) The majority of delegates welcomed the importance given in the programme to women and the media  and the proposed contribution to the preparation of the fourth United Nations World Conference on Women  (Beijing, 1995). They proposed that the planned studies should deal with the obstacles which limit the use of the  channels of communication by women and their access to decision-making in the media. Some delegates offered  the assistance of their countries for me preparation of the international seminar on ‘Women and me Media’.
(12.12) Most delegates also welcomed the proposa1 to update the ‘World Communication Report’. Some  suggested that the new version should present new trends in communication technologies and their impact by  region rather than repeating statistical data available elsewhere. Otbers called for greater involvement of  interested National Commissions and the academic and research community in the process of updating the report.
(12.13) A few delegates suggested that UNESCO should serve as ‘a think-tank and provide intellectual  leadership’ in the discussion of major communication and information issues affecting bath the developing and  the developed countries. One delegate drew attention to a clause in document 26 C/5 conceming ‘the preparation  of a synthesis of research into the impact of media concentration on the free flow of information’ and requested  that it should be followed up. Several delegates expressed their support for this request. In this regard, a  representative of one non-governmental organization voiced concem about the seemingly diminished input with  regard to me free flow of information. He was supported by a number of delegates.
(12.14) Strong support was aiso expressed for the programme’s objectives of strengthening communication  capabilities in developing countries, training communication professionals and technicians, adapting  communication training and media infrastructures to the new needs, fostering the development and improvement  of communication infrastructures in rural areas and the disadvantaged suburbs of big cities and strengthening the  endogenous audio-visual production capacities of developing countries.
(12.15) Referring to the importance of communication and information activities, some delegates cafled for  active promotion of the use of communication media in times of disaster and for a greater degree of integration of  communication into other UNESCO programmes such as education for all, environmental education, AIDS  prevention, the protection of the cultural heritage, development of human resources and the creation of science  networks.
(12.16) Unanimous support and recognition were expressed for the activities and achievements of IF’DC, which  was seen as the operational arm of the new communication strategy and a concrete example of the efforts made to  enhance the impact and credibility of UNESCO. A number of delegates, however, expressed concem about the  resources available to IPDC and appealed for more financial contributions from the community of donors to  enhance the capacity of the programme. Some delegates called for continued evaluation of completed IPDC  projects and a review of its rules and working procedures, as well as its criteria for project selection and approval.  Other speakers suggested that the IFQC Intergovernmental Council should become a forum for communication  experts and scholars to debate and exchange ideas about the implications of the rapid changes in communication  and information technology.
(12.17) Many delegates expressed appreciation for the UNESCO-sponsored recovery plan for the Pan-African  News Agency and for the efforts exerted to develop and strengthen subregional information networks and national  news agencies in Africa througb WANAD, CANAD and SEANAD regional projects.
(12.18) A number of delegates proposed that greater consideration should be given to the experience of  countries in Central and Eastem Europe and the former Soviet Union, which were described as a ‘laboratory for  press freedom, pluralism and independence’. They pointed to the need for increased attention and for greater  intellectual resources and technical assistance to be given to fhe requirements of the media in those coun&ies.  Some delegates called for similar assistance to be given for the development of communication infrastructures  and for the training of media professionals in the South Pacifie island States and in Palestine. They stressed the  need for a higher mgional profile, particularly with regard to the small island States.
(12.19) Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, now that you have heard the report on Debate 5,1 shall move on to  Debate 6.
(12.20) Two items were discussed under Debate 6 during the fourteentb and fifteenth meetings of the  Commission. These were as follows:  Item 5.5 - Major Programme Area IV - Communication, information and informatics in the service of  humanity - General Information Programme (document 27 C/5, para. 04002, section 2C and paras.
04301-04323)  Item 16.3 - The situation of the cultural and architectural heritage and of the educational and cultural  institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina (27 (X34).
(12.21) After the presentations of the representative of the Director-General and of the Chairperson of the  Intergovernmental Council for the General Information Programme, 35 delegates of Member States and tbree  observers for non-govermnental organizations took the floor.
(12.22) Unanirnous support was given to the General Information Programme, which was considered to be an  essential component of UNESCO’s programme, and a majority of delegates commended the concentration of the  programme into two subprogrammes.
(12.23) Many delegates supported the development of PGI’s long-term strategic orientations. In welcoming such  an innovahve approach, they stressed the crucial importance of the chosen missions for social and economic  development.
(12.24) Several delegates expressed the need for PG1 to emphasize activities aimed at the improvement of the  management of information resources at national and regional levels. They welcomed the holding of an  international meeting of experts on the legal and ethical issues relating to access to information.
(12.25) Several delegates from the Asia/Pacific region expressed appreciation for the effectiveness of ASTINFG  as a regional mechanism for the development of national information infrastru&es and services. Some delegates  pointed out that certain countries have invested significant resources to make ASTINFO self-reliant. At the same  time, however, they underlined that UNESCO’s support is essential for some critical activities for which national  resources are not available. The long-standing request for better representation of the Pacilïc States in ASTINFO  was once again reiterated by the delegate from Fiji, on behalf of 11 Member States of the subregion. One delegate  expressed concem about the level of support PG1 will be able to provide INFOLAC, noting that the PG1 budget  had been reduced in comparison with that for the present biennium.
(12.26) The importance of the development and promotion of international standards in the field of information  was underlined and particular support was expressed for the International Serials Data System (ISDS), which is  considered to be of paramount importance for libraries throughout the world.
(12.27) Many delegates expressed appreciation for the CDS/ISIS and IDAMS software for microcomputers.  They pointed out that these packages represented unique tools for the development of information networks and  supported their further development, maintenance and dissemination. Several delegates stressed the need for  training in the use of these packages and their adaptation to technological changes.
(12.28) The Memory of the World programme received strong support from ahnost a11 the delegations. It was  emphasized that this programme should not replace the library and archive programmes under PG1 but that it  should be seen rather as a new approach to the safeguarding, democratization of access to and wider  dissemination of the endangered documentary heritage. Some delegates spoke in favour of extending the scope of  the programme to documents on any media, in particular audio-visual documents and recorded oral traditions. In  this context, two delegates (France and Canada) cautioned the Commission that the emphasis of the programme  should be placed on libraries and archives collections and not on buildings or institutions. Several delegates  endorsed the recommendations made by the International Advisory Committee, in particular, tbe setting up of an
28  international fund for the financing of projects under tbe Memory of tbe World programme, and suggested tbat the  fïnancial resources available under the regular programme be invested for the most part in the setting up of this  fund. . .
(12.29) Some delegates suggested that the programme could be given a higher profile by holding an  international forum and creating a logo. Severaldelegates proposed that specific library collections and archive  holdings which had suffered accidental or deliberate damage should be included on the World List of Endangered  Library Collections and Archive Holdings. One delegate expressed fear that only countries having sufficient  numbers of highly skilled personnel would be able to obtain full benefit from the programme and, for this reason,  a high priority should be given to appropriate training programmes. Anotber delegate proposed that guidelines  should be elaborated for me development of co-operative relations in the context of tbis programme.
(12.30) Many delegates expressed appreciation for tbe Organization’s activities in relation to archives and took  the view that tbese activities should remain visible and clearly separate from the Memory of the World  Progra*mme. It was proposed that the RAMP programme should stress the vital link between govemment and  archives. A number of delegates called for urgent support to be given to archives in Central and Eastern Europe  and in Africa and Latin America.
(12.31) Several delegates stressed the important role of school libraries, public libraries and community library  services in support of education, literacy programmes and lifelong education. Tbe idea of establishing  mechanisms for library twinning was supported by several delegates. Tbe importance of library networking and  twinning was highlighted and several delegates referred to tbe need to continue PGI’s activities in improving  access to scient& publications in developing countries and to strengthen national and regional document delivery  services.
(12.32) Tbe need for training and retraining of information personnel, particularly in the new information  technologies, was strongly stressed by many delegates and it was pointed out that this need encompasses a11 the  activities of me General Information Programme.
(12.33) Observers from non-governmental organizations and a few delegates expressed concern over the  decision of the Executive Board to replace subventions by conventions and otber contractual arrangements,  fearing tbat this would result in a further reduction of funding.  .(12.34) Several delegates mentioned the Library of Alexandria project and some interesting proposals for the  organization and functioning of tbe library were put forward.
(12.35) Several delegates voiced strong concern about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the effets of  the war on educational and historical structures and on archaeological and cultural landmarks. Attention was  drawn, in particular, to the dramatic loss caused by the destruction of the Sarajevo National and University  Library. Two delegates expressed support for the establishment and furtber development of the International  Infomation System on Cultural Development.
(12.36) Several delegates offered the co-operation of their countries in PG1 activities. In particular: the delegate  from China offered to host the tenth consultative meeting of ASTINFO; the delegate from Japan offered to  provide financial support to enable selected ASTlNFG members to undertake a comprehensive study of their  national library and information structures and services; and the delegate from Austria offered to assist with the  development of audio-visual archives.
(12.37) Other delegates requested PGI’s assistance in tbe implementation of particular projects.
(12.38) Mr President, Iadies and gentlemen, that brings us to tbe end of Debate 6.1 should now like to move on  to Debate 7.
(12.39) Debate 7, which took place during the fifteenth and sixteenth meetings of the Commission, was  concerned with item 5.5 - Major Programme Area IV - Communication, information and informatics in tbe service  of humanity, presented in document 27 C/5, in paragraphs 04002, Section D and 04401-04417.
(12.40) At the beginning of the debate, the attention of the participants was drawn to document 27 C/l07  (Report by the Intergovemmental Informatics Programme (IIP) on its activities (1992-1993)).
(12.41) After the representative of the Director-General and the Chairperson of the Intergovernmental  Committee for the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme had spoken, 27 delegates took tbe floor.
(12.42) Tbere was a generai consensus on the appropriateness of the priorities addressed in document 27 C/5.  Some countries, however, expressed interest in enlarging the scope of action of the informatics programme to  areas such as standardization and issues relating to data protection and software piracy.
(12.43) Several delegates expressed support for the new line of action concerning tbe modemization of public  administration and many others voiced the interest of their countries in participating in networking projects. As  regards regional strategies, some countries expressed the wish that strategies similar to INFORMAFRICA be  devised for other regions. A number of delegates considered tbat such strategies could contribute to reducing the  imbalance between developed and developing countries in tbe field of informatics.
(12.44) A number of delegates confiied their countries’ continued financial support to IIP and recalled the  need for support from the private sector, as mentioned in the guidelines laid down by the Intergovernmental  Committee for IIP.
(12.45) Many delegates expressed appreciation for the support they received tbrough tbe informatics programme  and IIP. New initiatives were announced in the field of networking, informatics studies and multimedia.
(12.46) The sixteenth meeting continued with examination of Chapter 5 of Part II.B of document 27 C/5,  Transverse Programme - Tbe clearing bouse, i.e. the subject of tbe eighth and final Debate.
(12.47) Item 6.5 - Implementation of 26 C/Resolution 17 with a view to adopting a coherent approach to the  Organization’s information activities (27 CY22) - was discussed, as indicated by the Chairman, in Debates 5, 6, 7  and 8. Al1 the contributions with regard to tbis item bave now been grouped at the end of the report for the sake  of convenience.
(12.48) Many delegates addressed this issue, expressing appreciation for the CO-ordination efforts made SO far,  as stiarized in document 27 C/22. Tbey stressed the importance of better integration and CO-ordination  between IPDC, PG1 and IIP, on the one hand, and the clearing bouse activities on tbe other. They also called for  increased intersectoral collaboration in the conception and implementation of projects and activities. Some  delegates referred in particular to the necessity of involving PGI, IIP and the clearing bouse in the updating of the  World Communication Report, which will focus on new technologies and their impact. One delegate called for  further joint meetings between the heads of the intergovernmental bodies of IPDC, FG1 and IIP. Several delegates  requested that co-ordination efforts be vigorously pursued in the future and bave a higher profile in the next  Medium-Term Plan of the Organization. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we bave now reached the end of  tbis presentation of Part II of our Commission’s report. Thank you once again.  Debate 5  Item 5.5 - Maior Programme Area IV - Communication. information and informatig  in the servIce of humanitu  Programme IV 1 - The free flow of ideas by word and image  Programme IV.2 - Development of communication  Item 6.5 - Implementation of 26 CResolution 17 with a view to adoDting a coherent . . . mroach to the Organization’s informating activltles  maphs 1 and 2
(13.1) Tbe PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We thank Mr Al-Khasawneh very much for this clear and detailed presentation.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 suggest that we fiist look at tbe report on Debate 5, beginning with introductory  paragraphs 1 and 2.
(13.3) Are there any commenta?
(13.4) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Confemnce to have taken note of introductory  paragraphs 1 and 2.
(13.5) It is SO decided.  raDhs 3.4 and 5
(13.6) Let us now consider paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 wncerning the following: the draft resolutions which have  been witbdmwn; the draft resolutions which were not admissible on formal grounds, in view of tbe possibility of  their being examined within the context of the Participation Programme; the draft resolutions whose proposers  accepted tbe reply given by the Director-General.
(13.7) Are tbere any comments?
(13.8) 1 give the floor to the delegate of India.
14. MS SIBAL (India):  . Thank you, Mr President. With reference to paragraph 3, India has mistakenly been listed as a  co-sponsor of 27 UDR.120. 1 should be grateful if the reference to India could be deleted from the final report.  Thank you, Mr President.
(15.1) Tbe PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  I thank tbe delegate of India. We shall delete India’s name from the list of the sponsors of this draft  resolution.
(15.2) Are tbere any other comme&?
(15.3) As there are no furtber comments, 1 consider the General Conference to bave taken note of these  paragraphs.
(15.4) It is SO decided.  hs 6.7. 8 and 9
(15.5) Please turn now to paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9, relating to draft resolutions of which the General  Conference may take note, whether or not they have budgetary implications. This includes draft resolution 320,  proposed by Cuba, which involves a change in the work plan.
(15.6) Are there any comments?
(15.7) AS there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of these paragraphs.
(15.8) It is SO decided.  wraphs 10 and 11
(15.9) We shall now examine paragraphs 10 and 11, which deal with the draft resolutions the General  Conference may adopt in full for inclusion in Volume 1 (Resolutions) of the Records of the General Conference. 1  should like to remind you that, in accordance with document 27 C/l52 Add. and CO~T., draft resolutions 365 and
366 as amended have been moved to this section at the request of their sponsors. They must be included under  paragraph 17 upon the adoption of this report by Commission IV.
(15.10) 1 give the floor to the delegate of France.
16. M. POUSSIN (France) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le President. Monsieur le Président, je me réfère au paragraphe 11 C qui  figure à la page 3 de la version française du document 27 C/l52 Add. et Cor-r. Je voudrais signaler que dans ce  paragraphe, qui a trait au projet de résolution 27 CYDR.366, les noms de quatre coauteurs ont été omis dans la  liste placée entre parenthèses. Il s’agit, dans l’ordre alphabétique, de la France, du Gabon, du Niger et de la  Turquie. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of France. Yes, you are quite right. The en-or Will be noted.
(17.2) Are there any comments?
(17.3) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have adopted draft rcsolution 180 in  full and draft resolutions 199, 365 and 366 as amended.
(17.4) It is SO decided.
(17.5) 1 invite you to turn now to paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. This section of the report contains  recommendations on the following questions: the adoption of the proposed resolution for the programme as  amended by draft resolutions 195,223 and 358 (para. 12); redeployment of budget savings (para. 13); approval of  appropriation of funds (para. 14); the work plan (para. 15); item 6.5 of the agenda (para. 16).
(17.6) Are them any comments?
(17.7) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have adopted paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15  and 16 of this part of the report. This means that sections A and B of the amended version of the resolution  concerning Programme IV.1 have been adopted, note being taken of the work plan for Programmes IV.1 and IV.2  of Major Programme Area IV. The General Conference further approves the appropriation of funds for the  programme, as indicated in paragraph 14 and takes note of the redeployment of budget savings referred to in  paragraph 13.
(17.8) It is SO decided.  Debate 6  Item 5.5 - . . . Maior Proqgnme Area IV - Commumcat aa, mformat . .  service of humanitv - General Information’Proerammg  ion and mformaQcs m thc  Item 6.5 - hclementation of 26 UResolution 17 with a view to ada a coherent . . . wpoach to the Ormization’s information actlvm  Item 16.3 - ~tectural heriw and of educational and  Ç]a  .JJj&dJ \V,\Y
(17.9) 1 invite you to turn now to Debatc 6 under which the Commission had the opportunity to discuss the  following topics: agenda item 5.5, The General Information Programme; and agenda item 16.3, The situation of  the cultural and architectural heritage and of educational and cultural institutions in Bosnia and Heizegovina. Let  us first examine introductory paragraphs 1 and 2 of this part of the report.
(17.10) Are there any comments?
(17.11) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of these two  paragraphs.
(17.12) It is SO decided.  mraohs 3 to 9  .dJj& JLI \V, \l
(17.13) 1 invite you to turn now to paragraphs 3 to 9: the proposais of the Commission with regard to the draft  resolutions and its recommendation to the General Conference to take note, as appropriate, of the following: the  draft resolutions which have been withdrawn (para. 3); the draft resolutions which were declared inadmissible on  forma1 grounds (para. 4); the draft resolutions which the General Conference cari take note of without budgetary  implications (para. 6); the draft resolutions which the General Conference cari take note of with budgetary  implications (para. 9). In addition, there is the draft resolution with regard to which the sponsoring country has  accepmd the Director-General’s reply (para. 5) and another draft resolution involving the restructuring of Major  F’rogramme Area IV (para. 8).
(17.14) Are there any comments?
(17.15) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference has taken note of this section of the  report.
(17.16) It is SO decided.
(17.17) The paragraphs which are now before you comprise the following proposals:  paragraph 10, Part C of programme resolution 4.1, this section having been amended by draft  resolutions 221, 172, 195, 240 and 314 and in the light of the amendments introduced orally, as  indicated in paragraph 10 of the report;  paragraph 12, the proposal conceming the redeployment of budget savings;  paragraph 13, the proposa1 concerning the appropriation of funds;  paragraph 14, the proposa1 concerning the work plan.
(17.18) Al1 of these paragraphs relate solely to the General Information Programme. You are invited to adopt  this section of resolution 4.1 as amended, to approve the appropriation of funds and the mdeployment of budget  savings and, finally, to take note of the work plan.  ( 17.19) Are there any comments?
(17.20) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference has approved paragraphs 10, 11, 12,
13 and 14 of the report. This means that it has adopted Section C of programme resolution 4.1 concerning the  General Information Programme, that it has taken note of the redeployment of budget savings and the work plan  and, lastly, that it has approved the appropriation of the funds relating to this programme.
(17.21) It is SO decided.
(17.22) Still under Debate 6, the Commission wishes to submit to the General Conference the draft resolution  under agenda item 16.3, concerning ‘The Sarajevo National and Univers@ Library’. No amendments have been  made to this draft resolution which has been referred to the General Conference by the Executive Board in  document 27 C/134. The text of the resolution appears in paragraph 16 of Debate 6.
(17.23) Are there any comments in this regard?
(17.24) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Turkey.
18.1 M. TACAR (Turquie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais me prononcer en faveur du projet de resolution proposé par  la Commission au titre du point 16.3 de l’ordre du jour concernant la situation du patrimoine culturel et  architectural ainsi que des institutions éducatives et culturelles de la Bosnie-Herzégovine. Ce sont les  événements de ces deux derniers jours qui m’amènent à prendre la parole encore une fois à ce sujet.
18.2 A cette occasion, je voudrais tout d’abord attirer votre attention sur le titre donné à ce projet de  résolution, à savoir “Bibliothèque universitaire et nationale de Sarajevo”. Il est.vrai, Monsieur le Président, que  les paragraphes 4 et 5 de ce projet concernent la reconstruction de la Bibliothèque qui est un symbole, comme je  l’avais dit lors de mon intervention à la Commission IV, et nous esperrons vivement que la communauté  internationale va aider la Bosnie à reconstruire sa Bibliothèque universitaire. Cependant, je préférerais que  cette résolution soit intitulée “La situation du patrimoine culturel et architectural ainsi que des institutions  éducatives et culturelles de la Bosnie-Herzégovine (Bibliotheque universitaire et nationale de Sarajevo)” parce  que cette résolution, Monsieur le Président, parle aussi d’autre chose, d’autres événements qui sont dune  actualite brûlante et tragique.  ,
18.3 Monsieur le Président, le vandalisme continue en Bosnie. Le génocide ne cesse pas. Il y a deux jours,  le pont Star-i Most, qui date du XVIe siècle, a été détruit. Le Directeur général a déclare dans un communiqué :  “Je ne peux me taire devant la destruction délibérée, le 9 novembre, du pont Star-i Most à Mostar. Remarquable  témoin de l’architecture ottomane du XVIe siècle . . . [il] était à la fois un symbole et une réalité. En le  détruisant, les auteurs de cet acte ignominieux tentent de gommer l’histoire d’un pays et de son peuple. Ils  détruisent aussi, de ce fait, les liens de compréhension mutuelle établis par des peuples d’origines et de  convictions religieuses différentes, qui avaient appris à vivre ensemble en harmonie. C’est une atteinte aux  valeurs chères à la communauté internationale ainsi qu’a tous les défenseurs de la liberté. La destruction du  pont de Stari Most a dépouillé toutes les communautés de la Bosnie-Herzégovine d’un symbole d’espoir, a  rompu leurs liens avec les temps de paix et a sape les racines mêmes de leur patrimoine culturel”.
18.4 Le même jour a Sarajevo, Monsieur le Président, une école primaire a été délibérément bombardée.  Trois enfants et un enseignant ont été tués et plusieurs enfants ont été gravement blessés. C’était une École  ouverte par l’Association France-Libertés. Une quarantaine de personnes, des enfants qui faisaient la queue  devant une boulangerie voisine de l’école ont été également blessés. Ceux qui ont pu voir les sdnes sur les  écrans de télévision ont été choqués et ont versé des larmes d’impuissance devant les cris des enfants et des  vieillards. Le lendemain, une autre école à Sarajevo a été encore une fois bombardee et vingt-deux enfants ont  été blessés.
18.5 En ce qui concerne le patrimoine culturel, selon les rapports d’experts envoyés par l’Assemblée  parlementaire du Conseil de l’Europe - et j’espbre vivement que I’UNESCO aussi va envoyer ses experts en  Bosnie - l’épuration ethnique est devenue la norme dans les zones occupées de la Bosnie et le patrimoine  culturel est la première cible du vandalisme, qui vise à intimider la population qui persiste à rester sur place.  Selon le Ministre de l’architecture, de la reconstruction urbaine et du patrimoine culturel de la Bosnie-  Herzégovine, 75 % environ de l’ensemble du patrimoine culturel de son pays a été détruit et il n’y a pas de doute  que la destruction du patrimoine est une forme de génocide. En réalité, la destruction du patrimoine culturel est  non pas le résultat, mais l’objectif de la guerre menée par ceux qui veulent d&.ruire le peuple bosniaque.
18.6 C’est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, dans ce projet de résolution présenté par la Commission IV, la  Conférence générale se déclare gravement préoccupk par la poursuite des massacres et agressions perpétrés  contre des êtres humains innocents et condamne vigoureusement les auteurs de ces actes infâmes.
18.7 Monsieur le Président, je demande que cet aspect de la résolution soit également souligné quand un  résumé va en être presentk à la presse par les services compétents de notre Organisation, parce que nous ne  pouvons pas être insensibles devant cette tragédie. Même les pierres du pont Stari Most qui sont tombées dans  le fleuve Neretva avaient leur âme et continueront à exister dans notre mémoire et, en détruisant physiquement  ce trésor du patrimoine bosniaque, du patrimoine mondial, les criminels ont coupé leurs mains et ont détruit  même leur âme. Comme le disait le reprt%entant de la Bosnie, il est impossible, sans recourir au crime, de  tracer la ligne de partage entre les peuples bosniaques, parce qu’il n’existe pas de territoire ethniquement  homogène et que cette ligne devrait passer par les familles et les coeurs et les cultures de la Bosnie. Je vous  remercie.  ’
(1% The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Turkey. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
20. M. KOVAC (Bosnie-Herzégovine) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. En ce qui concerne le point 16.3 examiné dans le cadre du débat 6, je  voudrais appuyer la résolution présentée par le Conseil exécutif au sujet du patrimoine culturel de la Bosnie-  Herzégovine, afin qu’elle figure dans le volume 1 des documents de la Conférence générale. Permettez-moi,
28  Monsieur le Br&ident, de constater tout d’abord que les agresseurs de la Bosnie-Herzégovine se servent &  moyens qui sont contraires à la dignité humaine. Ils n’attaquent pas des points strategiques, parce qu’il n’y en a  pas dans une ville assiegée et coup& du monde ; ils continuent a détruire les lieux de culte, les édifices voués a  la culture et à l’enseignement, aux arts et aux sciences, les monuments historiques et artistiques : destruction &  la Bibliotheque universitaire et nationale de Sarajevo, de l’Institut oriental et du vieux pont de Mostar,  bombardement des 6coles et des universités, autant de symboles de la communauté multiculturelle et  multinationale. Cette destruction prouve que les agresseurs visent a humilier une population qui défend sa  liberte, à tuer l’âme d’un peuple, à d&ruire sa memoire culturelle. L’UNB!3CO et toute la communauté  internationale ainsi que l’opinion publique doivent Clever la voix et dire clairement que la barbarie ne peut pas  être tolérée, que ces méthodes sont inacceptables et que, par conséquent, nous condamnons vigoureusement les  attaques contre le patrimoine culturel et artistique de la Bosnie-Herzégovine ainsi que les auteurs de ces actes  infâmes. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Bosnia and Herzegovina and take note of his intervention. 1 give the floor to the  delegate of Egypt, Mr Abdel Hamid.
(22) Mr ABDEL HAMCD (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. TO avoid extending this session, 1 shall be brief. 1 have asked to take the floor  in order to express full support for everything which has been said by the delegate of Turkey and the delegate of  Bosnia and Hetzegovina. They have each expressed just what Egypt has to say on this subject. In reality, there is  no use just talking about this matter because the acts of barbaric extermination which the world is now witnessing  in Bosnia are without precedent in human history. In short, 1 cal1 on the General Conference to adopt the  amendment which Turkey proposes to introduce in the title of the item and to highlight the proposals made by the  Turkish delegate. Thank you, h4r President.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Egypt. We have taken note of your commet& 1 now give the floor to the delegate  of Senegal.
24. M. NDOYE (Sénégal) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La delegation dnégalaise partage les preoccupations qui ont et6  exprimées tout à l’heure par la délegation de la Turquie. Nous pensons effectivement que le projet de résolution  considéré pourrait être modifié de la façon qui a été propode, dans la mesure où ce qui se passe actuellement en  Bosnie-Herzégovine devrait alerter la communauté internationale. Il serait donc tout à fait recommandé que le  texte du projet reflète de telles préoccupations, de manière à sensibiliser l’opinion internationale aux  événements qui se déroulent dans ce pays, Merci.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegatc of Senegal. We have taken note of your comments. 1 now give the floor to the  delegate of Tunisia.
(26) Mr CHEMLI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 too shall be brief. However, in view of the grave situation which we witness  every day in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would like to express our support for the proposals made by the Turkish  delegate wnceming Bosnia and also our appreciation for the statements made by the delegates of Egypt and  Senegal. Thank you.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Tunisia. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Sudan.  : (;‘J&‘) + J+dI YA  v’ L+a $1 JJJJI ~$1 q”lI, t&i &a pli ,lAYl &If ~J&jtJ&a~~~~J+uI~  .*;t I& .A+
(28) Mr SA’ITI (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. We should also like to express our support for the proposa1 put forward by  Turkey and supported by the countries which took the floor before us. Thank you very much.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Sudan. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan.
30. Mr QASEEM (Pakistan):  Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. 1 join the other speakers in condemning  the genocide, ethnie cleansing and destruction of cultural property systematically being carried out. And 1 agree  that these concems must be reflected in the resolution which should not refer only to the Sarajevo National and  University Library. We should also include reference to these other concems in the resolution. Thank you.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Pakistan. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Latvia.
(32) MS GRIGORIEVA (Latvia) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. The Latvian delegation fully supports the concern shown at the situation in  Bosnia and Herzegovina and we demand a resolution from the General Conference wndemning aggression.  Thank you.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Latvia. We have taken note of your intervention. 1 now give the floor to the  delegate of France.
34. M. POUSSIN (France) :  Monsieur le Président, pour toutes les raisons qui ont été evoquées, nous soutenons pleinement le texte  du projet de résolution qui nous est proposé, avec la modification relative au titre qui a été suggerée en premier  lieu par le représentant de la Turquie. Je vous remercie.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of France. We have taken note of your wmments. 1 now give the floor to the  delegate of Jordan.  : (;JJ~‘) ++J 41 r-t  &l+ L& *&$ yJsU $-j 4+ f&i g”II cl+iJl J?jl Gl$ Jw 21 a+,1 FIJI <iJ- 1*  .lJs+ .Ly,lJ Lu&t+
(36) Mr DABABNEH (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabie):  ‘Ihank you, Mr President. Please allow me to express my support for the proposa1 submitted by my  colleague, the delegate of Turkey, concerning the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Jordan. We have taken note of your contribution. 1 now give the floor to the  delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
38. Mme DJAI-IANPANAH (Republique islamique d’Iran) :  Merci, Monsieur le President. La Republique islamique d’Iran voudrait appuyer les propos des  délégués de la Turquie, de la Bosnie-Herzégovine et de l’Egypte ainsi que des autres delégt& qui ont exprime  leur soutien, au projet de résolution considéré, ainsi que les raisons qui l’ont motivé. A notre tour, nous  soutenons fermement celui-ci. Merci, Monsieur le President.
(3% The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank me delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran. We have taken note of your contribution. 1 now give  the floor to the delegate of Norway.
40. MS EIDE (Norway):  Thank you, Mr President. Norway, 1 believe like ail the other Member States represented in this room,  is deeply concemed by the apparently never-ending tragedy unfolding in Bosnia and Herzegovina and also in  the neighbouring States. We frrmly support the action proposed in the resolution before us, and 1 should Iike to  take this occasion, Sir, to add two comments. The first is that, at the previous General Conference session, the  Director-General had already sent an envoy to the country who reported back on the damage bath to cultural  sites and to human beings that was already taking place throughout the former Yugoslavia. And we now see  that, in the meantime, UNESCO and the Director-General have tried, 1 think, by every possible means,, to help  to alleviate the situation, and 1 want to compliment him for it and 1 want us to encourage and support future  similar action by UNESCO. 1 should also like to add that, in the preparation of the war tribunal, on this  occasion, Norway has sent out military jurists as well as art historians to make an account of all the atrocities  committed both against human beings and against cultural sites in the area. Thank you.
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Norway. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Hungary.
42. M. VAJAY (Hongrie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Hongrie approuve pleinement ce que la Turquie a propose et que les  autres Etats ont egalement approuve et se demande s’il serait possible de réflt!chir aux moyens d’eviter qu’une  situation semblable puisse se reproduire a l’avenir. Je vous remercie.
855    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Hungary. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Kuwait.
(4) Mr AL-ONAIZI (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, 1 would just like to add the voice of Kuwait to the other voices calling for peace in the  region of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 1 should like the resolution to be effective and to have the participation of a11  the countries and of UNESCO. Thank you, Mr President.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Kuwait. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Spain.
(46) Mr FERNANDEZ-SHAW (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  It is logical, Mr President, that this theme should have prompted SO many expressions of support for the  draft resolution before us. But 1 am in agreement with the title amendment submitted by the Ambassador of  Turkey, because we believe it to be in line with the truth. What is happening is very sad and many Spaniards have  lest their lives in the defence of many ideals. Thereforc, and because it is consonant with the intention and  initiative that the Director-General duly put before the Bxecutive Board to appoint a person from UNESCO to  take charge of a11 matters wncerning the former Yugoslavia, the Spanish delegation supports the draft resolution  with the amendment of the Ambassador of Turkey. Thank you very much.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Spain. We have taken note of your contribution. 1 now give the floor to the  delegate of Iraq.
(48) Mr AL-ANBARI (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to express my support for the amendment proposed by the  dclegate of TÙrkey and seconded by the delegate of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 1 also agree with the statements  made by those who took the floor before me, particularly the delegates of Norway and Hungary. 1 should like to  stress that the deliberate destruction of educational and cultural institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina  constitutes a new and dangerous form of racial extermination. Those who have committed or are committing such
28  crimes must be dealt with as criminals who have committed acts of genocide and they must be brought before the  tribunal now being established by me Security Council. Thank you very much.  :&QJl If  G-41 ,~Jil~I~lJ.~I~I~~~~
(49) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank tbe delegate of Iraq. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Yemen.
(50) Mr MOHAMED ALI ZAID (Yemen) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. Yemen would like to add its voice to the voices of those who have expressed  their condemnation of everything that is now taking place in Bosnia and Herzegovina - the killings, the  destruction of cultural institutions and of the cultural heritage and the ethnie cleansing. We too support the  proposa1 made by Turkey. Thank you.  :hJJI 01  hJ&I LidI %!J#d ,~s;Iullykcl~.+ll~JJy+lul~
(51) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank me delegate of Yemen. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of the Syrian Arab Republic.
(52) Mr EID ABDO (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. We cari only support the draft resolution and the proposed amendments to it.  We are appalled by what we have heard from the delegate of Turkey and other delegates. Thank you,  Mr President.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Syrian Arab Republic. We have taken note of your contribution. 1 now give  the floor to the delegate of Slovenia.
54. MS KLEMEN-KFCEK (Slovenia):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should again like to cal1 on all countries here to employ all possible ways  and means that would lead towards the peaceful solution of the tragedy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We face  more and more tragic events every day, such as the one as we faced this week, the destruction of the old bridge,  the Stari Most, in Mostar. Probably we should cal1 on our consciences and really invest all our energy in  finding more effective ways of reaching a peace that we all expect in the very near future. Thank you very  much. And 1 do, of course, on behalf of our delegation, support the new amendments presented here by Turkey  and endorsed by all other countries. Thank you very much.
(55) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Slovenia. 1 now give me floor to the delegate of Italy.
56. M. LEO (Italie) :  Merci, Monsieur le President. Je serai très bref. Je voudrais d’abord appuyer évidemment sans réserve  tout ce qui vient d’être dit par mes collègues à propos de la situation en Bosnie-Herzégovine. Je voudrais,  deuxièmement, rappeler que l’Italie avait presenté un projet de résolution concernant la Bibliothèque de
857    Sarajevo qu’elle a retire au profit du projet de resolution présent.6 par le Conseil extcutif. Troisièmement, nous  appuyons l’amendement présente par le dtlégué de la Turquie. Merci, Monsieutle President.
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Italy. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of the Philippines.
58. MS MANALO (Philippines):  Mr President, the Philippines fully supports all that has been said conceming the draft resolution  under consideration including the proposa1 by Turkey. We re-echo all the condemnations of the atrocities, the  genocide, and the destruction of cultural property in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of the Philippines. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Burkina Faso.
60. M. TOPAN (Burkina Faso) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Burkina aimerait associer sa voix à toutes celles qui l’ont précéde,  pour approuver le projet de résolution ainsi que les modifications qui ont été suggérées. Nous partageons  l’ensemble des préoccupations exprimées au sujet de la situation actuelle dans cette partie du monde et  voudrions lancer un appel à la paix, afin que notre Organisation prenne les mesures nécessaires pour que la  paix revienne dans cette zone du globe. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le President.
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Burkina Faso. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Tonga.
62. Mr BLOOMFIELD (Tonga):  Mr President, although we have nothing substantive to contribute to the discussion, Tonga,  representing the Pacifie, fully supports, subscribes to and echoes all that has been said in regard to the draft  resolution, as amended by Turkey. Thank you.
(63) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 mank the delegate of Tonga. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of San Marino.
64. M. CECCOLI (Saint-Marin) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement associer ma voix à celle des orateurs précédents  pour soutenir pleinement l’amendement presenté par la delegation turque et pour condamner la situation très  grave et préoccupante qui s’est cr&e dans cette région de l’Europe. Merci beaucoup.
(65)  :&&AI 10  .v&l .Jti u 1 +lJ .& JL ‘jL, UJL +l  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate.of San Marino. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Morocco.
66. M. AMOR (Maroc) :  Monsieur le Président, je n’ai rien à ajouter à l’emouvante intervention du delégué de la Turquie. Par  consequent, le Maroc approuve pleinement l’amendement proposé par la Turquie. Merci.  :&JJl TV
(67)  .UI $JLl u.l &+CI> .-fil VJ.LY JeIl  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Morocco. 1 now give the floor to the delegate of Ausnia.
68. MS GOLLNER (Austria):  Mr President, Austria fully supports the resolution as amended by Turkey. Thank you.
(69.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Austria.
(69.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it appears that there is a long list of speakers. Therefore, 1 would suggest that we  adopt this draft resolution since a11 those who have asked to take the floor wish to support the amendment  proposed by Turkey. T~US, 1 suggest that we adopt the present draft resolution in accordance with the amendment  proposed by Turkey. Do you agree?
(69.3) 1 see that there are no objections. The General Conference, therefore, adopts the draft resolution as  amended and also takes note of paragraph 15.
(69.4) It is SO decided
(69.5) Thank you very much. 1 now give the floor to the Director-General who will make a statement on this  subject.
70.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, with your permission, and now that the resolution has been adopted, 1 would like to  remind the Conference of some of the action that has been taken since the adoption two years ago of
26 UResolution 0.10, which related more particularly to Dubrovnik.
70.2 Following that decision, 1 dispatched a mission with the particular task of determining, building by  building and place by place, what damage had been caused, As you know, the findings were published, with an  evaluation of the cost of restoration or rehabilitation. We have provided $300,000 as emergency assistance; and  now 1 would like to appeal to all who feel strongly about the restoration and rehabilitation of Dubrovnik to  provide me with the funds needed to complete the work that has been done SO far: there are a lot of cases  calling for urgent restoration that Will be possible only if 1 have the fïnancial resources.
70.3 As you also know, in the spirit of the same resolution 1 have sent a mission to Kosovo; 1 have been  dealing with the problem of refugees on the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina; we have created a Scheme of  Humanitarian Assistance for Refugee Education (SHARE); and we have a number of UNESCO programme  officers working full time on intensive teacher training and the distribution of learning materials. The fust of  three prefabricated UNESCO centres, with sections functioning as libraries, schools and for intensive teacher  training, was to have been inaugurated on 16 October in Bihac, but this proved impossible because of events at  that time; we are at present resuming the building of this centre, with funds from a private source in Germany.  But, Mr President, 1 really do need more contributions in order to act really permanently in the different fields  of our competence in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
70.4 In all the appeals 1 have made, 1 have - as His Excellency the Ambassador of Turkey has just urged -  always placed human lives in the forefront of our concerns. Of course we must protect the monuments, but the
859    most important monument to protect is each human life; therefore, in all our appeals we must always cal1 for a  cesse-fire, and we must always cal1 for peace. .
70.5 Concerning the possibility of UNESCO joining the United Nations mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina  to assess the loss and damage to cultural property, a request to this end has already been made to the Secretary-  General, and 1 have received his approval It is certain, therefore, mat UNESCO Will participate in this  mission, during which cultural loss and damage Will be investigated, together with all the other aspects.
70.6 Mr President, in the mission which you have just entrusted to the Secretariat and in particular to the  Director-General, 1 shah need more than ever the full support of all me Member States. In voicing their  feelings today, speakers have vividly expressed that they deplore what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina.  But 1 would like you a11 to transmit the same feelings around you, SO mat we may Count first of all on a vibrant  appeal for a cesse-fue, for a cal1 to end the conflict. Let me repeat mis: each Child that is killed is far more  important than all the monuments mat we have! First of all, the war must be stopped.
70.7. Ladies and gentlemen, please request your governments - those that are able to do SO - to help  UNESCO. Up to now, 1 have done what you have asked of me: 1 have looked, one by one, at a11 the monuments  in Dubrovnik, at what they Will cost to repair. But with all that remains for UNESCO to do, how cari we be SO  meagre in our resources as we are today!
70.8 Mr President, let me emphasize the importance of the resolution that the General Conference has just  adopted. 1 am glad that it was adopted by acclamation. What lies at its heart is concem to see an end to the war.  Once we have peace, and no children are killed, and no more people die, then Will we be able to assume mat  part of our role which also concems the protection of cultural property.
70.9 Mr President, my most recent appeal, made only the day before yesterday, has been taken up by quite a  lot of important international news agencies, such as Reuters. In this appeal, 1 concluded by saying: ‘UNESCO  has a mandate for the protection of cultural heritage. 1 deplore this loss and once again solemnly appeal to end  this conflict and thus spare our cultural heritage and, most important of ah, human lives.’ 1 thought,  Mr President, that 1 should inform the delegates to the General Conference of the terms in which 1 represented  your wishes just 48 hours ago. Thank you.
(7 1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We thank the Director-General very much for this statement and for the clarifications he has given. 1  believe that everyone supports and appreciates the efforts made by UNESCO in this regard and that a11 counhies -
1 stress d countries - are asked to support the Splendid efforts being fumished by our Organization.  Item 5.5 - Major Programme Area IV - Communication. information and informatics  m the servrce of m  Item 6.5 - Implementation of 26 C/Re&,.ution 17 with a view to adopting a coherent  approach to the Organization’s information activities
(71.2) &e shah now move on to Debate 7 which relates to the ptoceedings of the Commission concerning the  final programme under Major Ptogramme Area IV, i.e. Informatics. Paragmphs 1 to 6 of this debate relate to the  following issues: introduction (paras. 1 and 2); the draft resolutions which are inadmissible on forma1 grounds  (para. 3); the draft resolutions in respect of which the reply of the Director-General was accepted (para. 4); the  draft resolutions which the General Conference cari take note of, whether or not they entai1 budgetary  implications (paras. 5 and 6).
(7 1.3) Are there any comments?
(71.4) As there are no comments, 1 consider the General Conference to have taken note of this part of the  report.
(71.5) It is SO decided.  mraphs 7.8 and 9
(71.6) 1 shall now submit paragraphs 7,8,9 and 10 of Debate 7 for approval by the General Conference. These  relate to the following: Section 2D of programme resolution 4.1, namely the section on informatics, in respect of  which no draft amendments have bcen proposed; the redeployment of budget savings; the appropriation of funds;  and the work plan.
(7 1.7) Are there any comme&?
(71.8) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference has approved paragraphs 7 to 10 of  Debate 7. In SO doing, the General Conference adopts Section 2D of programme resolution 4.1 and approves the  appropriation of funds concerning this programme. At the same time, the General Conference takes note of the  work plan and the redeployment of budget savings.
(71.9) It is SO decided.  EaagraDhs 13. 14. 15 and 16 l
(71.10) The end of our discussion of Debate 7 means that we have now completed our examination of the four  elements of Major Programme Area IV. We must now deal with the resolutions conceming this major programme  area in their entirety. The msolutions concemed are: programme resolution 4.1 (para. 13); the proposal for the  redeployment of budget savings (para. 14); the appropriation of funds (para. 15) and, finally, the work plan (para.
(71. Il) Are there any comments on this paragraph?
(71.12) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference adopts resolution 4.1 conceming  Major Programme Area IV as amended, approves the appropriation of funds and takes note of the redeployment  of budget savings and the work plan concerning this major programme area.
(71.13) It is SO &&&J.  Debat&  Item 5.5 - . . . h&II.II.B - Transverse Tlugs.. Pr-ter 5: Cm  Item 6.5 - v of 7.6 C/Resolullon 17 1 . . . actww
(71.14) Our examination of the final debate on the agenda of Commission IV now leads us to consideration of  Part ILB of the Draft Programme and Budget, namely Transverse Themes, Programmes and Activities -  Chapter 5: Clearing house. 1 invite you to tum to paragraphs 1 to 5 of Debate 8, i.e. the introduction (paras. 1 and
2); the programme resolution proposed in document 27 C/5 (para. 3); appropriation of funds (para. 4); and the  work plan (para. 5).
(71.15) Are there any comments?
(71.16) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference adopts programme resolution 11.5,  approves the appropriation of funds and takes note of paragraphs 1 to 5 conceming the clearing house.
(71.17) It is sogecided
28  Debates 5.6.7 and 8  Item 6.5 - -of 26 C/Rwon 17 wm view to adootinp a CO-  vthe-  .dLlj&dJ V\,Y\  .dlj&dJ V\,YO
(71.18) As 1 mentioned earlier, Debates 5, 6, 7 and 8 also involved item 6.5 of the agenda: Implementation of
26 C/Resolution 17 with a view to adopting a coherent approach to the Grganization’s information activities. For  the sake of clarity, Commission IV offered to group its conclusions on the subject under this final part of the  report. The Commission proposes simply to inform the General Conference that it has taken note of document
27 C/17, which does not require a resolution by the General Confetence.
(71.19) Are there any comments? /
(71.20) As there are no comments, 1 consider that the General Conference has taken note of paragraph 1 of item
(71.21) It is SO decided.
(71.22) We have now completed the examination of the eight debates making up the agenda of Commission IV.
1 should now like us to complete our proceedings by asking the General Conference to take note of the report of  Commission IV in its entirety.
(71.23) Are there any comments?
(71.24) As there are not any comments, 1 consider that the General Conference has taken note of the report of  Commission IV in its entirety.
(71.25) It is SO decided.
(71.26) Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of you, 1 should like to express our profound  gratitude to Mr Aoun Al-Khasawneh, Chairperson of Commission IV, the Rapporteur, its officers and the  delegates who took part in its proceedings. As may be appreciated from the report which has been read to you, the  Commission successfully completed its work, despite the short time it was given to carry out such a difficult task.  The Commission’s success in meeting this tight deadline, we owe to the co-operation of a11 concerned and to the  wisdom of Mr Al-Khasawneh and those who worked with him. On your behalf, 1 should like to thank once again  Mr Al-Khasawneh and everyone who worked within the framework of the Commission. Thank you very much.  INSCRIPTION D’UN NOUVEAU POINT A L’ORDRE DU JOUR  INCLUSION OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENDA  INSCRIPCION DE UN NUEVO PUNTO EN EL ORDEN DEL DL4  BKJIIO=lEHI/IE HOBOI’O I-IYHKTA B IIOBECTKY flH5l  JbYI JJ+ u’ J+) J& cI,JI  ?Eil~EPm--!!li~~~  .eLluj 3+i; JU .u;l+I & crdl J VY, Y  I& .J&I + &i,wI Lid&!I f& d ci;L;J ,t‘L &Ai +, jJtJ WI & ‘jyj .b +, &‘.t, vy,r  -*i?
(72.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Finally, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like to inform you that the General Committee of the General  Conference decided at this morning’s meeting to include a new item in the agenda entitled: The effects of  structural change on education and training. This item was proposed by the United Republic of Tanzania and  several other countries. A decision was made to enter this item under number 17.4 for discussion at a future  plenary meeting. Do you agree?
(72.2) 1 see that there are no objections. It is SO decided.
(72.3) The meeting Will now rise. We shall reconvene at 3 p.m. 1 should like to thank you a11 very much and  wish you bon appdtit.  La séance est levée à 12 h.40  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 12.40
3acenamie 3aKpbrsaeTcrr B 12.40  &Jl*\Y,f. UJI~LywId~  $3!3=12s;irofrfg$~