Vingt-deuxième séance plénière
9 novembre 1993, à 10 h.35  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  puis : M. AMOR (Maroc)  Twenty-second plenary meeting
719    VISITE OFFICIELLE DE S. EXC. M. SAMUEL NUJOMA, PRESIDENT DE LA  REPUBLIQUE DE NAMIBIE  OFFICIAL VISIT BY H.E. MR SAMUEL NUJOMA, PRESIDENT OF THE  REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA  VISITA OFICIAL DEL EXCMO. SR. SAMUEL NUJOMA, PRESIDENTE DE LA  REPUBLICA DE NAMIBL4  OWi~llAJIbHbI@I BkI3kIT ErO IIPEBOCXOAMTEJIbCTBA r--HA CAMlOWI5I  HYbOMbI, IIPE3EIAEHTA PEClIY5JIEIKM HAMEiEMII  k~LJ*vGd~ L*$a &-La -yIl tGdI WLal +a9 Sdhj  iTbkti4l??t$ll~,~~% SAMUEL NlJJOMA5&/&j-r;3#$ji  (H.E. Mr Nujoma entered the hall and was escorted to the rostrum)  il.11 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  W Presidcnt of the Republic of Namibia, Madam Chairperson of the JSxecutive Board, Mr Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the General Conference 1 have the great honour to
720    welcome to UNESCO, on behalf of a11 the Member States of the Organization, His Excellency Mr Samuel  Nujoma, President of Namibia.
(1.2) As you know, the process of decolonization in Africa officially came to an end on 21 March 1990, when  Namibia, after years of unlawful occupation, lïnally acceded to independence.
(1.3) It was a victory for the international community and, in particular, for the United Nations system as a  whole, but above a11 it was a victory for the Namibian patriots who, for dccadcs carried on a just struggle to make  their country an independent State free to decide its own destiny.
(1.4) Mr President, you were always at the forefront of this struggle, with SWAPO, and since your  assumption of the Pmsidency of your country the policy that you have followed, characterized by the search for  consensus, the will for reconciliation and the desire to establish strong regional co-opemtion links, bears witness  to your determination to make South West Africa a land of peace, democracy and economic and social progress.
(1.3 There is no doubt that you are regarded by many as an example of the way in which the countries of the  region cari advance together towards the achievement of these noble ideals, despite a11 the tragic conflicts that are  still afflicting them.
(1.6) Our fondest hope is that solutions to these conflicts will be found in the very near future and that peace  Will finally reign SO that a11 the countries concerned Will be able to devote their energies to the urgent tasks of  economic and social development.
(1.7) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of its vocation and by its very nature, UNESCO had to  be an insurmountable bulwark against the forces of racism and apartheid. Today, its duty is to fulfil the even more  noble task of contributing to the lasting expansion of education, science and culture throughout Africa. You may  be assured, Mr President, that this task will also be crowned with success. Your presence amongst us today bears  solemn witness to the fact that a new page of fruitful co-operation has just been opened between Namibia and  UNESCO. 1 feel certain that this co-operation will have practical and constructive results following Namibia’s  brilliant election to the Executive Board of UNESCO. Thank you.
(1.8) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now give the floor to MS Marie Bernard-Meunier, Chairperson of UNESCO’s  Executive Board.
2.1 Mme BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi a la fois un honneur et un plaisir  d’accueillir aujourd’hui le Président de la République de Namibie à l’UNESCO et de lui souhaiter la bienvenue  au nom du Conseil exécutif et en mon nom personnel.
2.2. La joie de vous recevoir ici aujourd’hui, Monsieur le Président, a été précédée hier par le réel bonheur  de voir la Namibie élue membre du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, où elle siégera dès la semaine prochaine,  et pour quatre ans, aux côtés de 50 autres Etats membres.
2.3 Que de chemin parcouru depuis que l’Organisation des Nations Unies a décidé, en 1966, d’appeler  officiellement Namibie le territoire connu jusqu’alors sous le nom de Sud-Ouest africain. Nous avons tous été  les témoins émus de votre combat pour la liberté et pour l’indépendance. La communauté internationale a  voulu, à travers les Nations Unies, accompagner la Namibie dans son cheminement qui s’inscrit dans  l’évolution - actuellement tellement positive - de l’ensemble de l’Afrique australe. C’est dire combien nous  sommes heureux de vous voir aujourd’hui à nos côtés dans l’enceinte de notre Organisation, qui continuera  d’entretenir avec votre pays des relations privilégiées d’amitié et de travail dans tous ses domaines de  compétence. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board. 1 now give the floor to Mr Federico  Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO.
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, it is an honour and a pleasure for us to welcome you to UNESCO Headquarters during  this session of the General Conference.
4.2 Four years ago we rejoiced with the rest of the international community at the liberation of your  country from colonial occupation and apartheid, at its accession to sovereign independence. Yet we are  conscious of the great challenges that confront your State. We know how in SO many ways - tangible and  intangible - the legacy of bath the distant and the recent past continues to hamper the progress of your country.  We are aware of the importance for Namibia of the establishment of peace in Angola and democracy and justice  in South Africa.
4.3 It is to us a great encouragement, Mr President, that in these circumstances you and your government  should have opted with such determination and lucidity for a form of development rooted in democracy,  tolerance and cultural convergence. We welcome the key role that you bave given to education, training and  cultural development in your plans for national development. And we note with satisfaction your strong  personal commitment to the goal of education for all.
4.4 UNESCO has from the start played its part in the efforts of the United Nations system to help the  Governrnent and people of Namibia address the most immediate tasks of nation-building. It goes without saying  chat we shall do our utmost to strengthen our co-operation with Namibia in the crucial years ahead, within our  fields of competence and in accordance with your country’s needs.
4.5 1 wish now, Mr President, to make way for you SO that you may tel1 UNESCO’s General Conference  about those needs, may share with us your vision of Namibia’s future. Let me conclude, though, by wishing you,  Mr President, and the valiant people of Namibia every possible success on the road to democracy and  development.
4.6 You, Mr President, are a world champion of freedom and dignity. You are welcome to the house of  world freedom and of a11 cultures. Thank you for your attention.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of you all, it is now my pleasure to invite  His Excellency Mr Samuel Nujoma, President of the Republic of Namibia, to address the twenty-seventh session  of the General Conference.
6.1 Mr NUJOMA, President of the Republic of Namibia:  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies  and distinguished delegates, permit me to take this opportunity, fnst and foremost, to congratulate Mr Federico  Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, on his re-election to serve at the helm of our Organization for another  term. The overwhelming support he received from Member States is an indication of the trust and confidence  we all have in his unquestionable abilities.
6.2 1 am sure that 1 speak on behalf of ail when 1 say that we wish him well in the daunting challenge of  redefïning the goals of the Organization in the light of the changing global environment. We also wish him  well in the equally challenging task of rationalizing the structures and the programmes of the Organization to  ensure that scarce resources are spent where they are most needed.
6.3 1 would also like to make use of this opportunity to thank ail the delegations for their support of the  Namibian candidature to the Executive Board of UNESCO.
6.4 1 wish to assure you that the Namibian delegate Will do his utmost to eam the honour you have  bestowed upon us, through hard work, regular consultation and honest representation of the collective views  and aspirations of this Organization.
6.5 Mr President, UNESCO’s General Conference takes place at a time when significant changes are  occurring in world politics. We have moved away from the Cold War and the nuclear threat towards an era  which - it is to be hoped - Will be characterized by peace, progress and the development of humanity. This  General Conference Will have taken cognizance of these changes, Some of these changes are expressed by the  new national flags seen here ibis year for the fnst time, as the countries in question assume their place in the  community of nations.
6.6 Mr President, Namibia itself was the product of such powerful currents of change. Happily for us,  Namibia was the result of some benign changes.
6.7 One cannot, however, say the same of some of the other manifestions of contemporary international  relations.
6.8 It is certainly true that we no longer face a nuclear holocaust, but it is equally true that the  disintegration of the former Soviet Union has lowered the threshold for any nation wishing to join the nuclear  club.
6.9 It must be a matter of extreme concem to all of us that dozens of former nuclear scientists are  unemployed and unable to feed their families in a world where there has always been a demand for and  obsession with having that capability.
6.10 It is also true tbat we have not experienced another world war since 1945, which is indeed an  unprecedented achievement. However, this achievement appears hollow when it is put into perspective by the  reality that more people have died in SO-called local and regional low-intensity conflicts since 1945, as  compared to the combined casualities of the First and Second World Wars.
6.11 Mr President, mankind has made enormous strides in expanding the frontiers of knowledge. We are on  the verge of conquering space and making it the extension of our living space. Yet the ratio between the literate  and illiterate portions of mankind has barely changed.
6.12 Thousands of children in the world are dying of curable diseases, merely because of not having access  to vaccines. 1 am not only talking of African children. 1 also refer to the children in Romania, who die because  their parents cannot afford the expensive vaccines against hepatitis A and B; and children of Latin America  perishing of gastroenteritis because their parents do not have access to clinics.
6.13 1 furthermore talk of the children who are dying in Bosnia and other Eastem European countries  because of hunger and starvation in the midst of surplus agricultural products in Europe which are destroyed to  maintain artificiahy high prices. Many children are dying in Africa and Asia whilst science has the capacity to  produce drought-resistant crops.
6.14 Mr President, the sad but truc reality is that the majority of mankind has yet to reap the dividends of  the progress achieved by science and technology in the course of the past century.
6.15 Change brings with it many welcome and unwelcome challenges. International organizations must  therefore reappraise their role and the relevance of their programmes. No doubt, it is the responsibility of this  Conference to think deeply about UNESCO’s role in these times. It is therefore all the more fortunate that  UNESCO has a capable leader in Mr Federico Mayor to guide it through these times.
6.16 UNESCO has consistently striven towards enhancing conditions where more people Will have access to  quality education and information, and locating this within the understandable cultural contexts of its various  Member States:To achieve any meaningful change in the modem world, there must be men and women with  vision, determination and the Will to work hard in order to achieve results.
6.17 Mr President, our hope is that this forum Will provide the impetus for establishing programmes that  Will lead to tangible results, of benefit to the majority of the people in our countries, who still lack the basic  necessities to make life worth while.
6.18 TO establish the conditions of effective peace alone is not enough. Concrete efforts Will be needed to  reconstruct and rebuild our ravaged region. In conjunction with international bodies such as UNESCO, we Will  have to increase our efforts to promote literacy, education for all, distance education, to establish free and  pluralistic media, to build strong capacities in social and human sciences and to increase knowledge of science  and technology to protect our natural resources.
6.19 UNESCO’s contribution must be as an intellectual vanguard, helping us to understand the future,  especially in the areas of education, culture and science. These are long-term investments which requit-e a  perspective to be properly realized.
6.20 Mr President, from our own experience, 1 recall the foresight of UNESCO. In 1978, we were admitted  to UNESCO as a liberation movement. This was at a time when-.we were setting up an education system for  those in exile. Our thinking has undoubtedly been influenced by UNESCO. Today, we are a country which has  written into its own Constitution the right of all children to a basic education. We are fully committed to the  goals of education, with 30 per cent of our national budget and much foreign aid going to this nationwide  effort.
6.21 Mr President, the establishment of the World Commission on Culture and Development, under the  able guidance of Mr Javier Perez de Cuéllar, was indeed an important act to evaluate the World Decade for  Cultural Development. If we consider the hundreds of failed development efforts worldwide over the years,  especially during the 198Os, this effort to develop ‘... long-term action to meet cultural needs in the context of  development’ is a timely step in the right direction.
6.22 We Will keenly follow the progress of the Commission and look forward to receiving the policy report  which Will be the result of the Commission’s work. This Commission should be fully supported by the  competent organs of UNESCO.
6.23 In 1991, UNESCO was instrumental in writing the name of our capital, Windhoek, into the media  history books with a conference on a free and pluralistic press in Africa, which resulted in the Windhoek  Declaration that, consistent with Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the establishment,  maintenance and fostering of an independent, pluralistic and free press are essential to develop and maintain  democracy and development.
6.24 Mr President, we are pleased that, with the assistance of UNESCO, this initiative has found resonance  at Alma-Ata in Kazahkstan and Will be further repeated at Santiago, Chile, in 1994. Namibia cannot but  support ail efforts at strengthening freedom of the press and electronic media and the establishment of a  pluralistic press worldwide.
6.25 When Namibia became independent, it regained control over one of the richest marine resources in the  world. It was tempting to continue the over-exploitation of this non-renewable resource, especially in the light  of the high post-independence xpectations.
6.26 But we enshrined in our Constitution a commitment to policies aimed at ‘the maintenance of  ecosystems, essential ecological processes and biological diversity of Namibia, and utilization of living natural  resources on a sustainable basis for the benefit of all Namibians, both present and future’.
6.27 This principle has guided Namibia in all its decisions on the environment. Despite ongoing pressure,  Namibia has refused to become a dumping ground for toxic and hazardous waste. TO instil respect for our  natura.l resources the govemment has given its support to environmental awareness campaigns, and made it  part of our school curricula.
6.28 Mr President, in looking at the future, we Will certainly not all read the signs of the times in the same  way, atid disagreements Will arise. However, in these times it is especially fortunate that we have a forum to  corne together to learn to appreciate each other’s cultures, to create a culture of tolerance.
6.29 We therefore support the intention of UNESCO to decentralize, especially in relation to strengthening  me National Commissions. TO ensure peace on a broader scale and to ensure holistic approaches to  development, we equally support the emphasis placed on women and youth. No society cari actively develop its  full capacity if women do not participate fulIy - and from positions of power. As Young people are our future,  we have to prepare them for the way forward.
6.30 We therefore look forward to the widening of the dialogue on these matters through the retum of those  States which some years ago distanced themselves from UNESCO. We would like them to join us in our march  for greater harmony in the service of humanity.
6.31 Closer to home, we are pooling our collective resources to ensure that the imminent birth of a new  South Africa and the setdement of the conflicts in Angola and Mozambique serve to further strengthen our  Regional Community in SADC.
6.32 We are indeed proud that SADC Member States havè elected Dr Kaire Mbuende, my former Deputy  Minister of Agriculture, Water and Rural Development, as the new Executive Secretary.
6.33 1 wish to draw the attention of delegations to the forthcoming Conference on the promotion of a culture  of peace, democracy and human rights in southem Africa, organized by the SADC Unit on Informaiton and  Culture in Maputo from 29 November to 3 December 1993. The significance of such regional conferences,  organized together with UNESCO, lies in the fact that they focus on mass cultural edcuation through dialogue,  openness and the concretization of the exercise of democracy by guranteeing human rights.
6.34 Mr President, such conferences cari also help to prevent bloodshed and, the continued loss of life by  creating an atmosphere in which true reconciliation cari become possible, and by establishing a permanent  culture of peace and tolerance.
6.35 Mr President, 1 thank you for the opportunity to address this Conference.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, permit me, on behalf of you all, to thank His Excellency President Samuel  Nujoma for coming here today and addressing the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. We wish  you, Mr President, every success and for the Namibian people and all Africans, growth and prosperity.
(7.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 would ask you to remain seated while the F’resident takes his leave.  (H.E. The President of the Republic of Namibia withdrew from the hall)  (Mr Amor, Morocco, takes the chair)  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuaci6n)  OPlYAHPI3AIIkISI PABOTM CECCEIEI (npoflonxeane)  (& JLLLIJJ ,G=  IftwB ( sfl)
8. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au Secrétaire de la Conference générale qui a une communication à vous faire.
9.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. M. Sayyad, président de la Conférence g&krale, souhaite vous informer  de ce qui suit. Après la visite du Président de la Namibie, il était prevu de procéder à l’élection du  Commissaire aux comptes. Le Bureau de la Conference est saisi depuis ce matin du problème des groupements  d’Etats membres, qui pose des difficultés au Comité de candidatures. En consequence, il a eté décidé de  reporter l’élection du Commissaire aux comptes à trois heures cet après-midi, de façon à permettre au Bureau  de poursuivre sa réunion et, par la suite, au Comite des candidatures de mener a bien ses travaux qui étaient  prévus pour la joumee d’aujourd’hui.
9.2 Donc, cet après-midi, la Conference générale procédera d’abord, en plénibre, à l’election du  Commissaire aux comptes. Une fois terminée cette élection, la Commission administrative se réunira dans  cette même salle afin d’adopter son rapport, comme il était initialement prévu. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
10. Le PRESIDENT :  En conséquence, je déclare la séance levée. Nous nous retrouverons à 15 heures.  Las&nceestlev&àllh.15  The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 11.15