Dixième séance plénière
29 octobre 1993, ii 15 h.10  Pksident : M. SAYYAD (Y&nen)  puis : M. EDDE (Liban)  puis : M. SAYYAD (Y&nen)  pis : M. EDDE (Liban)  Tenth plenary meeting
29 October 1993 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr SAYYAD (Yemen)  later: Mr FIDDE (Lebanon)  later: Mr SAYYAD (Yemen)  later: Mr EDDE (Lebanon)  Décima sesion plenaria
29 OKTII~PR 19% r: B ls.lo  IIpepzeKaTenb, T-H CAHXJJ (MeMers)
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  With your permission, 1 now open the tenth plenary meeting and would like to remind everyone present  that the meeting will adjourn at pmcisely 4.45 p.m. for the visit of President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak of the  Egyptian Arab Republic.
(1.2) From now on, 1 would ask all those taking the floor to abide by the 12-minute rule for speeches.  Speakers who are unable to deliver their speeches before the visit of the Egyptian President will be able to do SO  once President Mubarak has taken his leave, at which point we Will continue with the debate.  ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DES NOUVEAUX ETATS h4EMBRES (suite)  FORMAL WELCOMING OF NEW h4EMBER STATES (continued)  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A LOS NUEVOS ESTADOS MIEIv?BROS (ContinuaciOn)  TOPXECIBEHHbIe HPHEM HOBbIX IOCYAAPCTB-qJIEHOB (npoflonxeme)  (& &wI Ld &Jl if++ JJJ+A+ *LJI  ïEÏu%!l!%&Ea(%)
(2.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Permit me now to welcome on behalf of everyone the head of the delegation from the Republic of  Uzbekistan and to cal1 on Mr Said Kasimov, the Uzbek Fomign Minister and head of his delegation, to place his  counhy’s flag on the podium.  (M. Saïd Qasimov place le drapeau de l’Ouzbékistan sur la tribune)
(2.2) Thank you very much, Minister. We are pleased that you are here with us.
(2.3) It is now my pleasure to cal1 on Her Bxcellency MS O’love Tauveve Jacobsen, Minister of Education atrd  head of the Niue delegation, to place ha country’s flag on the podium.
2.4  (Le Prksident poursuit en français)  Nous sommes très heureux de vous accueillir, Madame le Ministre.  (Mme Jacobsen place le drapeau de NiouC sur la tribune)
(3) The PRE?SIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 now give the floor to MS Olove Tauveve Jacobsen, Minister of Education and head of the Niue  delegation.
4.2 It is indeed an honour and privilege for me to represent my Govermnent and the people of Niue and to  address this distinguished forum. AIong with other well-wishers, the Niue delegation extends respect and  congratulations to you, Mr President, on your well-deserved election. Mr Director-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, members of the Executive Board and staff of UNESCO, honourable and distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen of the UNESCO family, good aftemoon. 1 bring you warm greetings and best wishes from my  Premier, the Honourable F. Lui, my govemment and my people.
4.3 I have endeavoured to fumish you with a small map to give you some idea where we are and what part  of the world we corne from. Niue has a land mass of 100 square miles, approximately 60 to 70 feet above sea  level: just a flat, table-top island raised out of the water through volcanic action. The soil is mainly limestone  in origin, shallow pockets of fertile soil, making commercial agriculture diffïcult. Thus, farming is subsistence  farming for family use.
4.4 Niue is the largest raised coral island in the world, an island of tranquillity whose pcople are  Polynesians, known for their warmth and hospitabty. The island bas a population of 2,400, while
12,000 Niueans live in New Zealand. Niue is probably the least populated of all the member countries of the  UNESCO family; we hope, it is not the least important.
4.5 We are bilingual, speaking both Niuean and English - the officiai languages. Alofi, the capital, is the  Seat of government and centre of commerce. It is also the entry and departure point for all international  travellers, both by sea and by air.
4.6 Captain Cook discovered Niue in 1774. And, by the mid-18OOs, Niue had made its first contact with  the outside world through the representatives of the London Missionary Society. For almost 70 years, the  island existed under the influence of the London Missionary Society, which undoubtedly became the driving  force behind the desire of my people for British sovereignty.
4.7 In Aprill990, Niue formally became a British Protectorate and, because of the vast distance separating  Niue and Britain, New Zealand was charged with the responsibility of looking after its affairs from 1901.
4.8 The frrst code of written laws was devised by the missionary brothers George and Frank Lawes. TO  this day, Christian elements are reflected in the island’s laws and ordinances.
4.9 New Zealand administered Niue from 1901 to 1974, at which time, in an act of self-determination  under United Nations auspices, we opted for self-govemment in free association with New Zealand. The people  of Niue tieely chose that status in preference to that of full independence or of political integration with New  Zealand. The General Assembly of the United Nations recognized Niue’s Act of Self-Determination in  resolution 3285 (XXIX) on 13 December 1974.
4.10 Niue has full control over its own destiny in matters relating to both domestic and extemal affairs.  Our special relationship with New Zealand enables us to enjoy New Zealand citizenship. Under the  Constitution, New Zealand is responsible for areas of extemal affairs and defence; however, this does not
341    confer on New Zealand any rights of control. If and when New Zealand carries out these responsibilities, it  does SO on the delegated authority of my govemment.
4.11 The gap between domestic production and the demand for goods and services is very wide. The  resulting trade deficit makes Niue’s economy heavily dependent on foreign assistance. The government  identifies tourism as our future base economy. The quest for funds to build more accommodation is already in  progress. We are grateful for continued assistance from New Zealand and donor agencies.
4.12 Mr President, the brief overview 1 have given you Will help you understand our desire to be a member  country of UNESCO. Donors often dwell on the fact that, as a small nation, Niue is the highest per capita  recipient of aid in the region and budgetary restrictions and reductions by New Zealand are giving a message to  Niue. As a new government, we are endeavouring to do something about it.
4.13 We do have pride: we want to help ourselves. The road to self-sufficiency is not going to be quick; it  Will take time and it Will not be easy either. The bold step we have taken this week is indicative of my  government’s serious approach to make an a&out concerted effort and commitment towards eventual self-  suffïciency and the maintenance of a living and vibrant community. For too long we have lived under the  table - through, may 1 add, no one’s fault but our own - and it is time now for us to pick ourselves up from the  floor to the table, where we cari ail sit, dine and talk together, over food which cari be shared, no matter how  little there is. However tme the saying: ‘You don’t need money to live in the islands’ may be, the bat-e realities  are that you do need money to develop a nation. We need to have the know-how to help ourselves.
4.14 Mr President, fellow delegates, Niue’s problems and concems are no different from yours; ours are just  on a smaller scale; and that is ail the more reason why we should do something now before we become a  universaI headache. We cannot assume that countries with the smallest population have the least problems. It  is my belief that where we have done well in maintaining and restoring tbe ideals of a living and vibrant  community this should be encouraged. We need your help in order to keep the momentum going and continue  to do that which is good for the benefït of everyone. The concept of the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff is  the wrong approach. It is our aim in government to minimize the problems before they become concems.
4.15 Our track record with law and order is good; for tbree years now, our prison bas not been occupied!
4.16 We do not mix politics and religion. The government respects all religious denominations. We have  nine different religions - not too bad for a small nation! Allow me, Mr President, to elaborate on this briefly,  and in SO doing to pay tribute to Niue’s first leader and great man, fallen in the service of his people: the late  Sir Robert Richmond Rex - who in his time of leadership permitted the entry of the various Christian faiths to  the island. The elements of Christian principles laid the foundation for a God-fearing nation, the basis of unity  and stability. Justifiably, Sir Robert, in his closing remarks at the celebrations of the 18th Constitution 1992  said: ‘... 1 would like to believe that, if 1 have done notbing else for you, then at least my leadership has  provided stability, a necessary ingredient for future development’. Mr President, this is where we sec  UNESCO’s role and assistance for Niue: in helping to restore and maintain stability in preparation for our  future development.
4.17 1 believe that our duty in government is to put in place good systems, workable and realistic, in order  to meet the needs of a growing and developing nation. You Will appreciate that, in terms of population, Niue is  the opposite. The government is at present fine-tuning policies towards the eventual repatriation of Niueans  overseas. 1 would welcome any good ideas from this forum.
4.18 Mr President, fellow delegates, let me mention some other areas which may interest you, as addressed  under the auspices of UNESCO. First, Niue has a high standard of education, compulsory from the age of
5-14 years, secular and free of charge. It is based on the New Zealand system and therefore comparable. Next,  conceming the status of women, there are no forms of discrimination. Equal opportunity prevails for all.  Women are the backbone of our society and 1 believe in yours too. Given the opporhmity, they are usually the  go-getters. Next - and this is typical of depopulation - our culture and language are threatened. We want to  retain and preserve our cultural entities and language; they are what symbolizes our identity and we are proud  of them.
4.19 With aI1 tbis in mind, 1 hope you cari see why we ail need to sit next to one another around the table of  UNESCO. We all have something small to share and learn from one another; and as old hands shake new  hands, 1 pray that the handshakes are genuine and meaningful.
4.20 Mr President, to everything there is a season, and there is a time to every purpose. 1 see UNESCO  fulfilling that purpose: a time to be bom; a time to love; a time for tbe culture of peace; a time to practise what  we preach. My govemment and people, having taken this gigantic step, are honoured and very proud to have  been accepted into the UNEXO family. Niue has appreciated the benetïts accorded to it by UNESCO prior to  its membership through the BELS, Vaka Moana and communication programmes.
4.21 With dccp appreciation 1 sincerely thank you all for your gracious support and messages of best  wishes, and in closing assure you of my govermnent’s commitment and co-operation. Let me close with a  special Word of thanks to our brothers in the Pacifie subregion for their support TO New Zealand and Australia
1 say please accept our appreciation of the assistance afforded to us. And may 1 say thank you to Mr Higginson  and Mr Griffith, too. God bless us aI1. Kia monuina! Best wishes!
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):
1 thank the head of the Niue delegation. We are happy to have you with us in the Organization. Ladies  and gentlemen, 1 now call on His Excellency Mr Abraham Inanoya Imogie, Secretary for Education and Youth  Development and head of the Nigerian delegation.
6.1 Mr IMOGIE (Nigeria):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, Your Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to convey to you  and all delegations gathered here the warm greetings of the Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of the  Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Chief Ernest Shonekan and, indeed, ail Nigerians.  Mr President, please allow me, in my tum, to welcome you most warmly to your exalted position as President of  this twenty-seventh session of our General Conference. With your long and distinguished experience, we are  indeed fortunate to have someone with qualities such as yours, to guide our deliberations. The Nigerian  delegation hereby gladly offers its unreserved co-operation to you, Mr President and to all the distinguished  delegations present here. Nigeria warmly welcomes all new Member States into this international family. We  also wish you all the best in your national aspirations.
6.2 May 1 also, Mr President, take this opportunity to salute and congratulate the past President, Africa’s  own Professor Ogot of Kenya, for the commitment and assiduity with which he discharged his duties all  through the period of his mandate. Our thanks also go to all the members of our Executive Board and to their  Chairperson - MS Marie Bernard-Meunier, the ftrst woman ever to hold that exalted position. We appreciate  their devotion and vigilance in supervising the effective and rational implementation by the Secretariat of the  many decisions we took when we last met.
6.3 My delegation, Mr President, also takes this opportunity to record its appreciation to our host country,  France, its President, François Mitterrand and the entire French people. Our salutations also go to the  Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor who as the head of the Secretariat, has been an inspiring torchbearer for  our Organization. We look forward to continued co-operation with him in the years abead, particularly as  Nigeria has no hesitation whatsoever in endorsing his re-appointment for another term.
6.4 Mr President, this General Conference session is taking place during a period of profound change:  changes in the world at large, changes within nations, changes in relationships between nations and also  changes in the structures and functions of many of the instruments and institutions that regulate interaction  among nations. Some of these changes have been most welcome, particularly when based on justice and  equality and the quest for a just world. But, unfortunately, we are also witnessing a most disturbing return to  armed conflicts. Perhaps, more than ever before, there is hardly any region of the world today that has not been  a centre of conflict in the two years since we last met. Old wounds are being re-opened and old acts of  destruction and hatred are acquiring new names. And yet we all admit that we should coexist in harmony.  Happily, what brings us here is our common belief in the ideals of our great Organization and in the  importance of this biennial dialogue between nations, for the nurturing of greater understanding and better co-  operation for the good of all peoples.
6.5 We observe that the Diiector-General has taken note of two global threats that may wreak terrible  havoc on the existence, survival and functioning of the world. These are: the division between North and
343    South, and the collapse of communism which has opened a ‘Pandora’s box’ of conflicts and ideological  confrontations.
6.6 We do, however, wish to mention a third problem, which may perhaps be more destructive than the  first two and which UNESCO must immediately address with serious consideration. This is the debt burden  afflicting the developing countries, with the resultant gross reduction in the quality of life, reduced attention to  and emphasis on education, devaluation of cultures and neglect of science and technology.
6.7 Mr President, the far-sightedness of the founding fathers of UNESCO has never been more evident.  More than ever before, UNESCO’s mandate and fields of responsibility place it very much at the centre of most  of the problems facing the international community today. We should therefore be constantly aware of the  importance of UNESCO and its operations and ensure that our deliberations and decisions in no way fall short  of the expectations of the international community at large. That is why we in Nigeria consider it essential to  embrace every General Conference session as another opportunity for re-dedication to the ideals of UNESCO,  namely the building-up of peace and understanding among nations through the development and application of  education, the sciences, culture, communication and information.
6.8 One of the main tasks of this assembly is the examination of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1994-1995, prepared by the Director-General and submitted to us by the Executive Board. My delegation  intends to participate fully in the work of the Commissions of the Conference and to deal in detail with ail  aspects of the programme and budget. 1 shall therefore confine myself here to only a few of the areas which are  of the greatest concem to us.
6.9 Before commenting on document 27 C/5, however, please allow me to cast a retrospective glance at  the implementation of our programme and budget for this bienmum that is about to end. What we have  witnessed is a regime where new and changing situations have brought about more and new demands but  where limited resources, financial problems and an irregular cash flow have led to deferment, suspension and  even cutting down in UNESCO programmes. Under these circumstances, there are several questions that we  must ask ourselves. While we admire the ingenuity with which the Secretariat acquitted itself, faced with new,  urgent and unanticipated situations, we would want to know what the fate of the curtailed, postponed or even  suspended programmes and projects Will be.
6.10 It is the duty of us all, as Member States of UNESCO, to ensure that the Secretariat is provided with  the necessary finances for the accomplishment of its tasks. Therefore, my delegation hopes that everything Will  be done in future to avoid the kind of unbealthy cash flow situation of this past biennium, with its effects on the  efficient and full implementation of the Organization’s programme.
6.11 Now, tuming to the proposals for the 1994-1995 biennium, 1 should ftrst like to make a few general  remarks. We in Nigeria endorse the wide consultations undertaken by the Director-General in the preparation  of this document. In this way, all Member States and all the other constituencies of UNESCO -  intergovemmental organizations, academic and professional communities - are given a chance to offer their  observations and suggestions. We approve the importance accorded to evaluation, especially as a means of  illuminating the way for future programming. While we believe that programme concentration may indeed  yield some efficiency, further concentration should be avoided where it may lead to the eradication of vital  aspects of the Organization’s mandate.
6.12 As regards decentra.lization, we encourage the Director-General in bis endeavour to achieve the extent  of decentralization advocated by Member States. We look forward to a relevant review of many of UNESCO’s  prevailing institutional arrangements and operational procedures. Such a review should be targeted at shifting  more initiative outwards while retaining adequate CO-ordination at Headquarters. As a complement to regional  offices, activities and funds may also be decentralized to subregional offices and National Commissions of  Member States. Member States should therefore strengthen their National Commissions in terms of structure,  finance and smffmg in order to complement and actualize this new approach. Indeed, we in Nigeria have  already commenced a major re-invigoration of our NATCOM.
6.13 1 should now like to make some observations on the ‘Priority: Africa’ programme, an initiative which  we all welcomed when it was first launched nearly four years ago. No doubt, there may have been some  commendable action under the programme. However, we believe it is time for UNESCO to conduct an  evaluation of its impact on the Organization’s programme, especially in Member States.
6.14 As 1 said earlier, Mr President, other members of my delegation Will ad&ess the various aspects of the  proposaIs under the diiferent major programme areas in detail. 1 Will therefore limit myself to just a few
10  general comments on some of them. We endorse the broad orientation of Major Programme Area 1, ‘Education  and the future’, as it concems basic education and the eradication of illiteracy. Nigeria, as one of the nine  most-populous developing countries promoting the achievement of education for all by the year 2000, Will  participate in the summit of Heads of State and Government on EFA which the Indian Govemment has offered  to host in New Delhi in December this year.
6.15 We wish to observe that Major Programme Area II, ‘Science for progress and the environment’, is an  area which was adversely affected by the recent changes and reorganization within UNESCO. This led to the  drastic reduction of programmes fiorn three to two major priority areas, and the total elimination and  suspension of some programmes. Specifically, the total elimination of Programme 11.3, ‘Science, technology  and society’ (26 C/5) is of great concem to us.
6.16 One of the greatest menaces that many developing countries face today is pollution from hazardous  waste. Nigeria clearly sees the need for a regional workshop on hazardous waste management and calls for  technical and financial support for such a workshop which Will formulate a curriculum for a training  programme and draw up a national blueprint for implementation of Agenda 21.
6.17 Mr President, we in Nigeria have streamlined ouf programmes, we have tut down their number and  we have axed programmes likely to cause conflicts. We fully endorse the aspirations of UNESCO. We  eamestly hope that UNESCO Will continue to play a crucial role in the world and we also look forward to tbe  contribution of permanent delegations to this Conference. We believe that their impact should be felt both here  and at home.
6.18 Finally, Mr President, we reiterate our confidence in UNESCO and in its capacity to fulfïl its role and  mandate for the creation of a better world, through education, science, culture, communication and the social  sciences.  (Mr Edde, Lebanon, takes the chair)
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Nigerian delegation and now cal1 on His Ekcellency h4r Gali Ngothe Gatta,  Minister of Education, Culture, Youth and Sport and head of the Chadian delegatîon.
8.1 M. GA?TA (Tchad) :  Monsieur le PrBsident, Monsieur le Directeur g&&aI, Mesdames, Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames,  Messieurs les ambassadeurs, Honorables délégues, Mesdames, Messieurs, je suis reellement honoré de pouvoir  prendre la parole devant cette éminente assemblée. Monsieur le PrCsident, avant d’entrer dans le vif de mon  propos, je voudrais m’associer à ceux qui m’ont précCdé pour vous feliciter chaleureusement, au nom de la  délégation tchadienne, pour votre brillante élection au poste de Prksident de cette assemblée. Je suis convaincu  que vous saurez diriger avec sagesse et compCtence les débats qui s’annoncent déja riches et constructifs. Je  voudrais également remercier et feliciter Monsieur le Directeur gCnéra.l et le Secr&ariat pour la qualit fort  appréciable de la preparation de cette conférence. Permettez-moi enfin de souhaiter la bienvenue dans la  famille de l’UNESCO aux nouveaux Etats membres.
8.2 Monsieur le President, Honorables délégués, la vingt-septième session de la Conference gédrale de  notre Organisation internationale se tient dans un contexte fortement dominé par l’irrbistible courant mondial  de democratisation. Cette mutation s’opère au prix de changements et d’actions qui ne donnent pas toujours les  résultats escomptés. Les difficiles transitions que nous observons quotidiennement prouvent que, malgré les  progrès réalisés ça et la dans le domaine de la paix et de la coopération intemationaie, des barrières subsistent  encore dans l’esprit des hommes. En effet, en fait de changement et d’amélioration des conditions de la vie  humaine auxquels les hommes aspirent legitimement, nous assistons a des frictions, voire des affrontements  ouverts dont les victimes se comptent par milliers.
8.3 Monsieur le Président., les nombreuses études et recherches réalisées par l’UNESCO prouvent que les  trois quarts de l’humanité souffrent encore de la faim, que d’importants groupes humains sont marginalisés, que
63 % des hommes et des femmes des pays les moins avancés sont analphabètes, contre 2 % seulement dans les
345    pays nantis ; ces derniers, qui ne reprbentent pourtant que 25 % de la population mondiale, consomment 75 %  des ressources énergétiques de la planète. Ce sont la quelques exemples de facteurs qui ne militent pas en  faveur de la paix internationale, de la démocratie et de l’avènement du village plankaire. L’UNESCO, dont la  vocation première est la cooperation intellectuelle internationale, a le devoir et les moyens de mobiliser toutes  les communautés intellectuelles dans la recherche des voies et des moyens de réaliser les conditions  nécessaires a l’établissement d’une dynamique de concertation et de participation de tous à la mise en place  d’un processus harmonieux de cooperation et de développement humain à l’echelle internationale.
8.4 Dans le domaine particulier de l’éducation, nous devons nous efforcer de donner à nos programmes  d’enseignement de base, technique, professionnel et supQieur, un contenu a même de “modifier les mentalités,  developper la compréhension et la tolerance, promouvoir la paix et la réconciliation entre les hommes”,  ameliorer l’klucation des filles et des femmes, encourager l’initiative locale et la participation communautaire  aux activités éducatives, developper l’emploi et l’esprit d’entreprise, mettre fin aux deperditions scolaires tres  tragiques qui entravent dangereusement le developpement, éliminer virtuellement les pratiques  segrégationnistes qui ne reconnaissent le droit a l’éducation qu’a quelques catégories de personnes, améliorer la  formation et les conditions de vie et de travail des enseignants.
8.5 Dans la plupart des pays les moins avancés, le taux d’analphabkisme est très élevé chez les femmes.  Il convient donc de leur assurer un minimum d’education pour qu’elles participent pleinement au processus de  développement. Dans cette perspective, le Tchad et ses partenaires ont adopte une stratégie et un programme  d’action pour l’horizon 2000, liant l’education, la formation et l’emploi (EFE). Je salue à ce propos la precieuse  contribution de tout le système des Nations Unies en general, et de l’UNESCO et du BIT en particulier, pour la  qualité de l’assistance technique fournie dans la phase de conception et de mise en oeuvre du programme EFE,  grâce a un financement du PNUD.
8.6 La politique de valorisation des ressources humaines au Tchad repose sur deux orientations  fondamentales : une stratégie à but qualitatif visant l’amélioration du rendement du systéme par la  revitalisation des structures d’education et de formation ; une stratégie a but quantitatif visant une expansion  modérée des effectifs, mais permettant d’assurer l’ajustement continu de l’accroissement démographique aux  realites économiques et socioculturelles du pays. L’enseignement de base est la première priorité, suivie de  l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle, organisés suivant des modalités basées sur le  partenariat. La délégation du Tchad aura le plaisir de présenter, au cours des travaux de la Conférence  gén&ale, son experience en ce qui concerne la formulation de politiques d’éducation et de formation dans le  cadre de la “Stratégie EFE”.
8.7 Si nous voulons realiser un développement harmonieux de l’humanite, l’éducation doit être assuree  sans exclusive aux enfants, aux jeunes, aux femmes et aux adultes. Nous devons mettre en place des  mécanismes qui nous permettent d’apprendre a lie et a ecrire au milliard de personnes analphabètes qui  peuplent encore malheureusement la planète et de scolariser tous les enfants en âge de l’être. C’est une oeuvre  titanesque qui nous attend. Mais le pari merite d’être gagne. La Commission internationale sur l’klucation pour  le XXIe siècle doit fournir le cadre d’un programme qui nous permette de realiser ces objectifs. Nous savons  que cette entreprise ambitieuse ne reussira qu’au prix d’un engagement condquent de tous les acteurs,  notamment de ceux qui detiennent les ressources financieres publiques et privées.
8.8 Monsieur le President, Honorables déléguts, je viens de parler peut-être trop longuement de  l’education en tant que domaine hautement important, en ce sens qu’elle détermine le modèle de civilisation  que recherche l’humanité. Mais les meilleurs programmes Cducatifs peuvent-ils être exécutes dans un  environnement social, culturel et physique hostile à l’homme ? Assurément non. Ceci m’amène à aborder la  question de l’environnement. Nous vivons sur une planète dangereusement menacée, principalement par les  effets néfastes des activités de l’homme. D’importantes Ctendues de terre sont menacees par la desertification  parce que l’homme y pratique la coupe abusive du bois. De nombreuses espèces d’animaux et d’oiseaux sont  purement et simplement en voie de disparition, soit parce qu’ils sont exterminés par l’homme, soit parce que le  milieu dans lequel ils vivaient ne leur est plus favorable, parce que d&ruit encore par l’homme. La liste des  atteintes portees à la nature est longue. Si des mesures ne sont pas prises pour arrêter le mal, la vie risque de  s’eteindre sur notre belle planète parce que l’on n’aura pas réussi a preserver nos Ccosystèmes. Face à la gravite  de la dégradation de nos Ccosystèmes, des voix s’élèvent de partout pour inviter la communauté internationale  a se mobiliser en vue de protéger la nature, Cette activité se situant dans l’un de ses domaines de compétence,  l’UNESCO s’est portee en première ligne de la bataille. Dans le cadre du programme Action 21, elle recherche  les voies et moyens de “preserver” la planète pour nous et pour les génerations futures.
8.9 En ce qui concerne le Tchad, je voudrais vous assurer que d’importantes activites sont menées en vue  de la protection de l’environnement. Eu égard aux recommandations et résolutions du Sommet de  Rio de Janeiro, le gouvernement a organise plusieurs ateliers de formation en vue de mettre sur pied un réseau  de developpement durable. Par ailleurs, la cellule technique d’appui, mise sur pied dans le cadre de la lutte  contre la desertification, a Clabore un document de stratégie sur la conservation des ressources naturelles,  l’anukagement du territoire, la sCcurite alimentaire et la sécurite Cnergétique. Toutes les activites menées par  le Tchad visent a situer la lutte contre la désertification dans une nouvelle conception integrée d’actions  harmonieusement planifiees et judicieusement agencées, en vue du développement des productions rurales, de  l’utilisation rationnelle des ressources naturelles et des rehabilitations tkologiques.
8.10 Monsieur le President, Distingués délégués, tels sont les preoccupations et les objectifs qui sont les  nôtres dans le domaine environnement& et les actions concrètes a entreprendre en vue de la protection de  notre planète terre contre les effets destructeurs de l’homme et du climat. Mais cela suffira-t-il pour assurer à  l’homme la paix, la liberté, la securite sociale et économique dont il a besoin ? L’humanité a considerablement  progressé sur la voie du developpement scientifique et technologique, sans tenir compte du facteur culture en  tant que cause première, moyen et finalite de tout developpement. Dans l’optique de la creation et de la  consolidation dune culture de paix à l’échelle mondiale, le Tchad organisera, du 22 au 26 novembre 1993, une  rencontre internationale des jeunes du Système des écoles associées à l’UNESCO intitulée “Festival  international de la jeunesse au Tchad”. Ce forum sera organise sur le thème “Dialogue des cultures pour la  paix”. Le Tchad entend ainsi contribuer à une activite qu’il juge essentielle a la survie de l’homme. Je suis  convaincu que ces actions s’inscrivent dans le cadre de la lutte contre l’atomisation des cultures et visent à  promouvoir les echanges culturels. J’ose espérer que le célebration, en 1995, de l’Année internationale de la  tol&ance viendra couronner la lutte pour l’instauration de la culture de paix entre les hommes.
8.11 Monsieur le président, Honorables delégués, il est un autre domaine qui préoccupe aujourd’hui la  communaute internationale et que je ne saurais détacher de la culture. Il s’agit de la démocratie, des droits de  l’homme et des libertes fondamentales. Partout, les peuples font montre d’un Cveil jamais égalé, expriment  avec force un besoin pressant de democratie et de liberte. Après avoir croupi sous des dictatures implacables,  les peuples d’Afrique, d’Asie, d’Amérique et d’Océanie revendiquent les droits qui leur sont reconnus par  l’article 19 de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme. Dans la plupart des cas, les revendications sont  accompagnées d’actions très musclées qui témoignent de la volante de l’homme de rompre à jamais les chaînes  de la domination et de l’exploitation sous quelque forme que ce soit.
8.12 Monsieur le President, je voudrais rappeler a l’attention de cette auguste assemblée une déclaration  faite par M. Federico Mayor, directeur géneral de l’UNESCO, à propos de la communication. Le Directeur  général de l’UNESCO a dit ceci : “Une presse libre, pluraliste et indtfpendante est une composante essentielle  de toute socit?t& dkmocratique”. A mon avis, cette déclaration resume tout le sens et toute l’importance que la  communauté internationale accorde à la communication.
8.13 Monsieur le President, Distingués délégues, je ne saurais terminer mon propos sans vous remercier et,  en même temps, faire part de notre approbation générale à l’égard des programmes soumis à notre examen.
8.14 Monsieur le Président, pour terminer, je voudrais faire une remarque sur les activités entreprises dans  le cadre de la Décennie mondiale du developpement culturel. Ma remarque rejoint celle de la délegation du  Canada qui estime qu’en raison de son importance, ces activites ne peuvent être financées que sur le  Programme de participation.
8.15 Enfin, notre délégation saisit cette opportunité pour exprimer le soutien du gouvernement du Tchad a  la reconduction de M. Federico Mayor au poste de directeur gen&al de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie de votre  aimable attention. Au nom de la délbgation tchadienne, je souhaite le plein succès des travaux de la  conference.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Chadian delegation and cal1 on His Excellency Mr Mohammad Ghassan Al  Halabi, Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic.
(10.1) Mr AL HALABI (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me the greatest pleasure. to congratulate you on your election as President  of our Conference. We are all confident that you Will steer its affairs towards the desired objectives.
(10.2) Mr President, we have gathered here from a11 over the globe to build the world bath of the present and  of the future. Nations today seem closer to each other than at any time in the past and hopes have been kindled for  a world in which new resources are made available to discharge the one real responsibility that falls to a11 nations  of the world, namely, bridging the intolerable gap between the wealth that is concentrated in only a very small  part of the world, and the poverty which is endemic in a large number of countries. Such a discrepancy is  affecting a11 aspects of persona1 and communal life in a world that is undergoing tremendous change.
(10.3) Mr President, a peaceful world eau never remain so if it is not in harmony with nature. Humanity’s  adverse effect on nature is such that it is threatening its own very existence on earth. The tinte has corne to stand  up against the destruction of the environment and its natural resources and to provide the international community  with a moral code of conduct that will take precedence over the power and influence it has at its disposal. It is to  be hoped that UNESCO will co-operate with the United Nations in bringing about a better understanding of the  ecosystems of this planet and to ensure that they are preserved.
(10.4) Mr President, we very much appreciate UNESCO’s efforts in drawing up document 27 C/5 and the  radical change in the way the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995 has been prepared. The difference is  not in procedural issues but rather a matter of how the document has clearly redefined UNESCO’s aims and areas  of responsibility and has effectively mmgrated its joint missions into the United Nations. The document bas  reaffirmed UNESCO’s important and fundamental role, as set out in its Constitution, in developing the potential  of mankind. This has led the Organization to continue giving priority to eradicatiug illiteracy and encouraging  basic education. The innovation does not end there, because the Draft Programme and Budget has also targeted  the less-developed countries, the Member States of Africa and women as priority groups. The figures indicate  increases on last year’s allocations for these groups ranging between 20 percent and 60 per cent.
(10.5) Mr President, we in Syria have made determined efforts in the field of education. Our educational  experiment, which was born of our national aspirations and is characterized by its humanity, is open to the give  and take of educational experience throughout the world. In furtherance of its aims, it is both original and  innovative, adopting and interacting with present trends and taking the best from them. It is continually evolving,  looking to the future and responding to new trends in science and the applications of science with a view to  advancing the Arab people in a balanced way SO that they cari make an effective contribution to universal  development and, at the same time, tackle current problems, seek to understand the nature of any new challenges  that arise and deal with them successfully.
(10.6) Education in our country occupies a prominent position and is freely available on the basis of equal  opporhmity for all. This policy was instrumental at the beginning of the 1990s in increasing the number of pre-  university pupils, both boys and girls, to 3,597,263 or about 28 per cent of the population. We feel that it is  important to mention here our commitment to educating girls. Those girls who recently started school brought to  over 84 per cent the number of girls of school-age who are actually enrolled in school. Women in Syria enjoy  equal rights, occupying government posts and becoming members of parliament, and have union representation at  national level through the General Federation of Women. Neither should we forget our support for vocational  training, which Will take 70 per cent of resources by the end of 1996 in accordance with the vocational training  plan, as opposed to 30 percent for general training.
(10.7) Mr Presidenf peace is not simply the absence of conflict between individuals and nations but a gradua1  process of building towards, in the words of President Hafez al-Assad of the Syrian Arab Republic, ‘a real, just  and comprehensive peace based on the principles of the United Nations and legally binding international  resolutions because, if it is not just, it will become a source of future conflict and instability’. His Excellency also  said at the Alexandria Meeting, in a comprehensive, nationwide interview with the Cairo-based newspaper  Akhbar al-Yawm: We will persist in our search for a just and comprehensive solution to the peau? process  because a partial solution and limited withdrawal will trot achieve a lasting peace’.
(10.8) Mr President, there is no alternative to multilateral co-operation. UNESCO’s responsibility for  safeguarding peace and security in a fast-changing world has reached an unprecedented level. Permit me  therefore, Mr Resident, to reiterate our faith in and continuing support for UNESCO.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic. 1 now cal1 on MS Jacqueline Malagbn,  Secretary of State for Education, the Arts and Culture and head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic.
(12.1) MS MALAGON (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ministers of  Education, Ambassadors, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 add my voice to all those who have  congratulated the President on his election and the Dimctor-General on his Splendid work and outstanding  leadership in the course of his stewardship. 1 should also like to welcome the new countries which have joined  UNESCO and which Will strengthen the Organization by their membership.
(12.2) 1 am especially gratified today to be a bearer of good news to those who, like yourselves, have made  education, science and culture the mainsprings of their lives; to those who, like ourselves, strive daily to reconcile  an overwhelming demand with an inadequate supply, caught between the desire for quality and the realities of  quantity; between a social demand for more and better education, and relatively diminishing resoumes; between  the iniquity of the sort of education meted out to the poor, and the wealth of choice open to the powerful;  between, on the one hand, environmental destruction and the dangers of drugs and sexually transmitted diseases  threatening our students, and, on the other, the general lack of the necessary awareness to face up to these great  evils.
(12.3) This was the reason for our meeting in Jomtien at the World Conference on Education for AR.  Participants included a delegation from the Dominican Republic, whose members were educatom and leaders,  highly regarded and influential in my country. That group returned with a commitment to raising awareness of our  serious educational problems and to organizing a great national effort to change such a situation. For almost a  year and a half, we have had a succession of meetings dedicated to discussion of ways of reaching this major  objective. Indeed, those activities have enjoyed such success that they have now put education in the forefront of  national concern. Nor was this a mere advertising slogan; it was the crystallization of the nations concems. This  is the healthy obsession of the Dominican Republic today.
(12.4) Yet another of the fruits of this national concern was made manifest a year ago, with the drafting and  launching of a master plan for educational action over the coming decade: the Ten-Year Education Plan of the  Dominican Republic. This consista of a coherent set of activities, strategies and programmes designed to provide  us with the human resonrces that we shall need in the early decades of the twenty-first Century. UNESCO’s  Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, launched a dramatic appeal to the international community in the course of  the 42nd International Conference on Education, then being held in Geneva. He called for primary education and  adult education to be treated as emergencies throughout the entire decade of the 1990s.
(12.5) It gives my country and govemment deep satisfaction that the Dominican Republic answered the appeal  made at that session, and that the Ten-Year Education Plan constitutes our effective response to such a  praiseworthy concem. The plan itself was conceived along the lines required, not as a mere statement of  principle, but as a set of energetic practical measures. 1 have only a few minutes to describe this plan, and cari do  SO in four words, which give the gist of it: quality education for all. 1 shah comment briefly on both aspects:  quality, and for all.
(12.6) We believe in the deep-seated connection linking education, development and the quality of life. Social  and economic development - 1 do not mean mere growth - create the only context worthy of all human beings.  Such development is the goal of our Ten-Year Plan. Education reaches a standard of excellence when its  recipients are in a position to make a permanent contribution to the quality of life in a given society, and when the  alumni of such a teaching system find their place in the appropriate production processes to enable them amply to  satisfy their own needs and to be competitive on the international scene. In order to attain such competitiveness,  education must keep pace with technology, which itself is changing at the rate of the scient& breakthroughs we  are witnessing in the fields of computing and biotechnology.
(12.7) The experts recommend immediate replacement of the current outdated curriculum by another, to which  the fïnishing touches are bemg put at this very moment. Jobs, scientific breaktbroughs and new technologies, all  these will feature in this new document, besides finding a place in the corresponding syllabuses and textbooks, in  refresher and retraining courses for teachers, and hence in the ideas put across in the classroom. One technology  which we are most eagerly seeking to incorporate is that of computem.
(12.8) The Ten-Year Plan also sets up a national science and technology system that ties in with the production  and transfer of scientific knowledge, bringing us closer to breakthmughs occurring outside our country, and  involving our universities and individual scientists in the ongoing process of revision of a flexible curriculum that  lends itself to constant adaptation to change.
(12.9) The new syllabuses stress discussion of the way in which work is being organized in such places of easy  access as supermarkets or shops, and of bath forma1 and informal economic sectors and the administration of  small or even micro-businesses. For living means working, whether at forma1 or informal jobs. And if  employment is not integrated into schooling as an abject of analysis and training, then life itself remains left out  of school. ‘I’he new curriculum also talces into account the characteristics of the ecosystem in which leaming talces  place, and is flexible enough to adapt to the variations of each region. Tbe Dominican Republic’s new schools Will  at the same time be training grounds for conservationists. Al1 these changes in quality will produce citizens cast
10  in a new mould. They will be the ideal women and men with whom we shall build a country fit for the twenty-  first Century.
(12.10) I have just spoken of qudify in education. Two words, finally. on its complement: for ail. The plan’s  target, for the year 2000, is to provide schooling for 95 per cent of Dominican children between the ages of 6 and  fourteen. Moreover, we shah have a compulsory year of pre-school education for children aged five. Expected  rates of repeats and drop-outs in a given year Will not exceed 10 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. Such an  effort will be backed by the sort of activities already carried out in the field of adult education. The expected rate  of literacy in the year 2000, for the population aged between 10 and 30, Will be approximately 90 per cent.
(12.11) If all enjoy access to the quality education we have just described, then we shah be forging a new  Dominican Republic. For it is with generations of this stamp, trained in SO different and SO sound a way, that we  shah build up a country that belongs to the opening decades of a new millennium. Once upon a time, the  emergence of peoples was decided on the battlefield. Now, the future of peoples is decided in schoohooms.
1 recall with feeling that lapidary phrase to be found in DNRSCo’s Mexico City Declaration of 1979: ‘No country  cari move along the path of development any further than it has reached along the path of education’. With quality  education for all, we may look to the future with optimism.
(12.12) This, the Dominican Republic’s response to the state of emergency pmclaimed by UNESCo’s Director-  General in 1990, moreover offers guarantees of durability and success. Rducators, business people, political  leaders from the main opposition parties, leaders of trade unions and of community and religious associations,  national and municipal authorities, and even former students themselves and their parents, have all been  consul&. Indeed, 50,000 citizens with educational connections, 200 distinguished figures and 100 institutions  have been consulted. An exemplary consensus has been reached regarding solutions to be implemented, and at  this very moment the Ten-Year Plan of Action is being carried out along the lines of just these strategies of  consensus and participation. Such dialogue, and such respectfully and democratically enlisted technical  participation, is the plan’s major guarantee of survival and success. The driving force behmd quality education for  a11 is this shared wmmitment on the part of society, in its capacity to demand this sort of education at a11 times  and to insist that the corresponding technical inputs be provided.
(12.13) With this Ten-Year Plan for Education, we assert our belief in our youthful wuntry, and in the need to  change the history of education in order to chart a new course. This is to convert despair into hope, and the tears  and failures of students into smiles of success and a new zest for living and leaming. Hope for whole peoples is  their major driving force, hope which transforms and creates new realities; hope such as this is what opens the  way towards freedom for the self. And for such hope to be fostered, courage must be coupled with wisdom. Only  thus is it possible to struggle against wnformism and to possess the necessary secure base fmm which to respond  to tomorrow’s challenge. Just as it is yours, honourable delegates to this General Conference, SO it is my own goal  to see an end to ignorance. 1 seek to witness intellects and talents speak out while injustice and wars fall silent. I,  like you, have harnessed my conscience, knowledge, awareness and hopes to the search for tmth, freedom and  democracy with equality for all.
(12.14) We are working at this task. We are on the right path. And we must hope for a better future. If the  account 1 have given you gives encouragement to other, fellow peoples now experiencing the same problems and  sharing the same concems, then the Dominican Republic’s Ten-Year Plan will have new and very gond reasons  for satisfaction. For my part, 1 am here not only to share our experience with you, but also to be attentive to your  own reports, to your experience and knowledge, SO that we may advance together towards a new education for a  new millennium, with this as our watchword: to educate is to teach people to lead better lives. Thank you very  much.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic and cal1 on His Excellency Mr Stanislas  Bamouni Baba, Minister for Education and Scientific Research, Technical and Vocational Training, and head of  the Togolese delegation.
14.1 M. BABA (Togo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conference génerale, Madame la présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur gen6ra.l de l’UNJ3C0, Honorables chefs de dWgation, Excellences Messieurs les  ‘ambassadeurs et delegués permanents, Mesdames et Messieurs, il est heureux de constater que dans un  environnement devenu si imprevisible, notre Organisation constitue l’un des meilleurs élements de stabilisation  et d’évolution positive qui puisse exister. C’est diie la grande confiance que mon pays place dans la capacid de  notre institution a contribuer a surmonter les difficulds du moment. L’UNEWO, en effet, de par ses objectifs
353    clairement énoncés dans le prkunbule de son Acte constitutif, est dune importance capitale dans  l’Établissement et le maintien de la paix dans le monde. Elle a posé des actes concrets qui constituent des  réferences dans les domaines cl& de l’education, de la culture, de l’information et de l’environnement. Les  principaux acteurs qui ont consacre leur energie a l’edification de cette oeuvre immense méritent notre respect  et notre reconnaissance.
14.2 A ce propos, je voudrais exprimer toute l’appréciation de mon pays pour le travail inlassable du  Directeur general, dont l’action en faveur du progres constant de notre Organisation nous paraît indeniable. A  la tête de notre institution commune, il a démontre son souci permanent de rester fidèle à nos idéaux. Je  voudrais également feliciter le Président de la Conférence gen&ale pour sa brillante blection a la tête de nos  importantes assises. Monsieur le President, vos tvidentes qualités de fin diplomate et votre compétence font de  vous une personnahti toute désignee pour mener a bien nos delibkrations. Mes félicitations vont ensuite à  Madame la Presidente du Conseil exécutif, dont le charme et le sens de l’humour, alliés au sérieux et au sens  du travail bien fait, ont permis au Conseil d’assurer avec bonheur sa mission de supervision et d’orientation.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, durant les quatre dernières années, notre monde s’est  considerablement transformt. Partout, et particulièrement en Afrique, les peuples aspirent à une conception  plus democratique de leurs socieds. Comment ne pas s’en réjouir ? Pourtant, alors que nous Ctions en droit de  penser que les malheurs de l’humanité allaient enfin trouver, sinon une fin, du moins une accalmie, voilà que  naissent d’autres conflits du fait même des reformes qui auraient dû logiquement y mettre un terme. Sommes-  nous en presence des derniers soubresauts d’un monde d’incompréhension, de guerres et de douleurs, qui  s’efface en faveur d’un monde de tolerance, de paix et de bonheur, ou alors au début dune nouvelle periode de  turbulences plus dangereuse encore que ce que nous avons pu connaître jusqu’a aujourd’hui ? Nous voulons  quant a nous penser que l’humanité se dirige vers des lendemains lumineux et que ce qui, aujourd’hui encore,  est de nature a susciter quelque inquiétude n’est que la necessaire douleur qui precède tout accouchement de  nouvelles valeurs. A defaut d’empêcher cette douleur, l’UNlSSC0 ne peut-elle pas aider à l’atténuer et a  l’abréger ?
14.4 Monsieur le President, pour revenir au Projet de programme et de budget pour 1994-1995, qui  represente les moyens dont notre Organisation espère disposer pour sa politique, je voudrais exprimer notre  appreciation pour sa clarté, sa concision et sa pertinence.
14.5 Dans le cadre du champ majeur de programme 1, notre pays apprecie la place prepondérante qui est  faite tant à l’&lucation de base qu’à l’enseignement supérieur, dont les budgets ont été renforcés, sans oublier  l’enseignement secondaire où l’accent a été mis sur l’enseignement echnique et professionnel. L’éducation, nul  ne l’ignore, est la clé autant du développement durable que de la paix, qui sont les deux soucis majeurs de  notre Organisation. Elle doit reposer sur le socle d’un monde debarrasse de l’analphabétisme. A ce sujet, depuis  la mémorable conférence de Tthéran, des efforts considérables sont deployts en vue de juguler ce fleau. Dans  mon pays, des progrès significatifs ont éte enregistres sur le double front de la scolarisation au niveau primaire  et de l’alphabttisation des adultes. Ainsi, le taux d’alphabCtisme st passe de 69,3 % en 1975 à 59,3 % en 1985  et 56,7 % en 1990. Nous sommes conscients que l’effort doit se poursuivre. Des initiatives continuent d’être  prises pour traduire dans les faits la DUnation de Jomtien, en mettant l’accent aussi bien sur les outils  d’apprentissage essentiels que sur les contenus Cducatifs fondamentaux dont l’être humain a besoin pour  s’épanouir, tout en participant pleinement au développement socio-economique de son pays.
14.6 Nous suivons avec intérêt les efforts deployes par l’Organisation pour l’enseignement supérieur. A ce  sujet, le programme UNITWIN et le système de chaires UNESCO contribueront a mobiliser la collaboration  internationale entre universités aIïn que le développement des réseaux favorise les echanges Nord-Sud, Sud-  Sud, Est-Ouest aussi bien d’enseignants que d’étudiants. Ce programme fait la jonction avec Priorité Afrique  qui a centré son action autour du développement de l’excellence au sein des universites et des institutions  d’enseignement superieur d’Afrique.
14.7 Ma delegation souhaite que l’UNESCO poursuive ses efforts pour soutenir les pays les plus demunis  qui s’efforcent de faire de la science et de la technologie un des élements moteurs de leur développement  économique et social. Nous voulons Cgalement saluer et soutenir tout effort destiné a favoriser des  renforcements institutionnels aussi bien dans le domaine des formations que dans celui des tquipements et du  matériel didactique. A cet Cgard, nous saluons le projet de l’UNESCO visant à concevoir et diffuser des  mallettes pedagogiques multimédias au profit des institutions de formation dans le domaine des sciences de  l’ingenieur, ainsi que la création de douze chaires dans les domaines de l’environnement et de l’energie.
14.8 Enfin, je voudrais profiter de l’occasion qui m’est offerte pour souligner qu’en vue d’améliorer  l’efftcacid interne du système Educatif national, le gouvernement togolais vient d’adopter une déclaration de  politique sectorielle de Wlucation couvrant la periode 1994-1998. Il compte sur la solidarité des institutions  du systeme des Nations Unies, particulièrement l’UNESCO, en esp6rant qu’elles le feront benéfïcier de leur  expérience et de leur appui financier dans sa mise en oeuvre. LVNESCO sera invitée a la Conférence des  bailleurs de fonds prevue en 1994.
14.9 Monsieur le President, Mesdames, Messieurs, nul n’ignore l’importance de la culture, dont le rôle dans  le développement apparaît comme de plus en plus incontournable. Mon pays note avec satisfaction la poursuite  de la Décennie mondiale du developpement culturel lancée en 1988, dont l’evaluation sera faite en 1994 au  sein de l’Organisation des Nations Unies. Des etudes plus approfondies devront être menées pour déterminer  dans le cas de chaque pays, ou même de chaque microcosme social, ce qui dans la culture favorise ou  defavorise le développement. C’est d’ailleurs pour sauvegarder cette civilisation planCtaire que l’UNESCO a  fort justement perçu la complémentaritt! de toutes les particularités culturelles du monde quelles qu’elles  soient. Mon pays est convaincu que la creation artistique et la promotion de l’artisanat, des droits d’auteur et du  patrimoine culturel intangible doivent occuper une place prioritaire dans l’action de l’Organisation. Il en est de  même pour le développement des langues africaines qui jouent un rôle indeniable dans la conservation du  patrimoine intangible.
14.10 Dans le cadre des activités propos% au titre du champ majeur de programme IV, ma délegation  apprecie les efforts de l’UNESCO tendant en particulier à favoriser la diffusion, dans les pays industrialisés, de  programmes de radio et de télevision produits dans les pays en developpement, et a encourager les échanges  Sud-Sud, de manière à permettre aux populations du Nord de mieux connaître celles du Sud. Il faut pour cela  également renforcer les moyens de communication dans les pays en développement, ainsi que le préconise le  Programme international pour le développement de la communication. Nous joignons nos voix à toutes celles  qui soutiennent la poursuite du développement du Programme INFORMAFFUQUE visant a introduire  l’informatique dans les systemes bducatifs en Afrique, a élaborer des strategies régionales et a renforcer les  réseaux regionaux d’informatique tout en développant la formation de spécialistes de la maintenance des outils  informatiques. Dans le domaine de la presse, il faudrait que, de manière urgente, une Organisation telle que  lVNESC0 veille a aider à la formation des hommes et des femmes dont le travail est de répandre les idees  afin qu’ils assurent leur fonction en toute liberté, mais également en toute responsabilité.
14.11 Nous appuyons également l’action de l’UNESCO en faveur du développement d’activites concernant  les jeunes, particulièrement sa contribution au developpement de l’education physique et des sports, ainsi qu’au  développement d’un Service international d’information et d’échange de données sur la jeunesse  (INFOJEUNE%E).
14.12 Monsieur le Directeur g6n&J, nous nous réjouissons que l’UNEBC0, se plaçant dans la droite ligne  des preoccupations de I’ONU vis-a-vis de l’Afrique, ait cree une direction au sein du Secrétariat consacree  specifïquement et de maniére prioritaire a l’Afrique. Notre souhait est que cette direction puisse disposer des  moyens pour mener des actions ayant un impact visible sur le développement du continent et constituer un  cadre susceptible de favoriser l’élaboration de strategies a long terme. Nous remercions également le Directeur  general pour l’important soutien financier apporte aux etudiants africains en situation difficile dans les pays de  l’Europe orientale et nous souhaitons que cet effort soit poursuivi.
14.13. Nous sommes conscients de l’ampleur des problemes et de la diificulte de la tache. Mais lUNESCO  doit savoir qu’elle n’est pas seule. Outre le capital d’amitié dont elle dispose au niveau de nos Etats, les  imperatifs mondiaux qui sous-tendent son action sont si urgents que nous sommes persuades qu’elle  bédficiera d’un appui croissant de la part des autres organisations du systeme des Nations Unies. En outre,  elle ne doit pas relâcher les efforts qu’elle deploie pour retrouver son universalité et justifier son ambition de  Maison de toutes les cultures du monde. C’est tous ensemble que nous ameliorerons nos chances de bâtir la  culture de paix, prélude à une terre plus juste, plus fraternelle et plus humaine. Merci, Mesdames et Messieurs.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation fmm the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Togolese delegation. 1 will now adjourn the meeting for a few minutes to await  the arriva1 of President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak of the Egyptian Arab Republic. 1 would ask delegates to  remain seated. Thank you.  (La séance est suspendue à 16 h.30 ; elle est reprise à 16 h.40)  (M. Sayyad, Yémen, reprend la présidence)  (S. Ext. I$ Hosni Moubarak prend place à la tribune)  VISITE DE S. EXC. M. HOSNI MOUBARAK, PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE ARABE  D’EGYPTE  VISIT OF HIS EXCELLENCY MR HOSNI M.UBARkK, PRESIDENT OF THE ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR HOSNI MUBARAK, PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA ARABE  DE EGIPTO  BR3klT El?0 I-IPEBOCXOAMTEJIbCTBA r-HA XOCHII MYBAPAKA, IIPE3BAEHTA  APABCKOfi PECIIYBJIPIKH El?HIIET  $.dl- $2~ 44 #GI>& + J;LyJl nLl;ilI +L 5Jb.j  i&jWJ$i~Ei~~~$UEil,$$,~ MeHOSNI MOUBARAK l%lT!%J~iii
(16.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of  UNESCO and on behalf of a11 the Member States of the Organization, 1 have the honour to welcome His  Bxcellency Mr Mohammed Hosni Mubarak, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
(16.2) Egypt, which was among the founder States of UNI!X0 in 1946, occupies a special place in the hearts  of each and every one of us. Indeed, from the very beginning of its long history right up to the present day, it  epitomizes the continuity of hiitory, the perpetual rebirth of civilization and the handing down to future  generations of the fundamental values of culture in a spirit informed by the desire for peace and tolerance.
(16.3) At this point in tinte, humanity is going through a critical period in its history, marked as it is by strife,  dissension and the unleashing of violence. It must therefore corne back to the values of peace and tolerance and  stress the principles and ideals they enshrine in education, culture and day-to-day relations between individuals  and groups.
(16.4) In this respect, the place that Egypt occupies on the international scene sets a Splendid example, and  since you became President of your country in 1981 you have constantly worked to further the cause of peace and  to lay it on solid foundations, built on education and the dissemination of me culture of peace.
(16.5) As you yourself have said on many occasions, the spread of education and the promotion of culture  represent a challenge that bas to be overcome by mobilizing ail the necessary resources, for the future of our  peoples hinges on them.
(16.6) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must step up our efforts and ensure that the ethical wellsprings  on which UNESCO draws become an evtnyday mality and that we cari a11 conttibute, in both deeds and words, to  forging a future free from fear, intolerance and conflict.
(16.7) In order to achieve this, we are relying on you, Mr President, and on the Egyptian Government, which  sets us all an example, to help us to talce on the colossal and extremely urgent task of constructing the defences of  peace in the minds of men.
(16.8) Indeed, Egypt and UNESCO have forged close ties over almost half a century of fruiffil co-operation in  a variety of areas, and we are firmly convinced that those ties will become ever fit-mer in years to corne.
(16.9) In conclusion, allow me, as a citizen of Yemen, to express my country’s gratitude to Egypt, which, in  times of difficulty, has provided support and assistance in the defence of peace and mutual understanding. We  welcome you, Mr President, and through you, the Egyptian nation and people. Thank you very much.
(16.10) 1 now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Bxecutive Board.
17.1 Mme BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  Monsieur le President Hosni Moubarak, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, comme vient de le faire  le Br&ident de la Conférence gCnérale, je voudrais, a mon tour, au nom du Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO et  en mon nom personnel, vous souhaiter la plus chaleureuse bienvenue. Je voudrais vous dire aussi l’émotion que  nous ressentons du fait que votre visite parmi nous coïncide, g&e à la signature de l’Accord de paix de  Washington, avec le début dune ère nouvelle chargee d’espoir pour votre region, pour l’avenir du Moyen-  Orient.
17.2 Je suis heureuse d’avoir l’honneur de m’adresser au Br&ident de la Republique arabe d’Egypte, cette  Egypte qui, pour paraphraser NapolCon, nous contemple du haut de ses Pyramides et de ses quatre mille ans  d’histoire. Mais ici et maintenant c’est à l’Egypte d’aujourd’hui que je voudrais rendre hommage. Je voudrais,  en particulier, saluer le rôle de la diplomatie égyptienne qui a su mettre au service de la communauté  internationale la qualité de sa réflexion, sa sagesse, sa capacid de nouer et de conduire le dialogue et de  contribuer ainsi au rapprochement entre les peuples. Tout cela dans la poursuite d’un seul et même objectif : la  recherche de la paix.
17.3 Monsieur le Président, nous sommes aussi à vos côtes dans le combat que vous livrez pour  promouvoir un monde plus juste et plus genereux. Le chemin vers la paix et le developpement pour tous sera  long et difficile et la communaute internationale se réjouit de pouvoir compter sur des hommes d’Etat de votre  stature. Je vous remercie.
(18.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson.
(18.2) Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, 1 will give the floor to Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-  General of UNESCO.
19.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, it is a great honour and pleasure for me to welcome you to UNESCO Headquarters. 1 am  most gratified mat you were able to accept my invitation to visit the Organization during me hventy-seventh  session of its General Conference, and 1 see your presence among us as a mark of your strong personal  commitment to UNESCO5 goals and a testimony to Egypt’s sustained interest in the activities of our  Organization. AHLAN WA SAHLAN!
19.2 Allow me, on behalf of UNESCO, to congratulate you most warmly on your re-election as President of  the Arab Republic of Egypt. It is a fïtting recognition of ail you have done to address the many challenges  facing your country in mis age of multiple transitions. On the domestic front, your wise policies - based on the  promotion of social cohesion and dialogue, infrastructure modernization and economic reform - have  significantly advanced the cause of national development. Internationally, your keen statesmanship bas  positioned Egypt to play a major role not only in the Middle East but on the world stage. The international  community joins with your fellow countrymen and women in commending your firm and farsighted leadership.
19.3 At UNESCO, we salute in particular your deep and active concern with education and training. By  identifying education as an issue of ‘national security’ for Egypt, by making radical education reform the  priority national project for the rest of the decade, you have set a standard for other leaders to follow. You have  acted on the realization that the most precious resource for national development at the dawn of the twenty-frrst  century is knowledge and the human potential that is its ultimate source. And you have recognized that the  essential challenge of educational reform is to ensure the provision of education of the right quality as well as  in sufficient quantity. 1 should add that your own commitment to education is matched by that of the First Lady  of Egypt, MS Susan Mubarak, who has made an important contribution at the national and international level  to the promotion of childhood education and family life.
19.4 UNESCO, together with its United Nations partners, is contributing to the Egyptian national education  campaign through the worldwide Education for Al1 drive launched at Jomtien in 1990. As you are well aware,  the latest initiative in mis regard is the action involving nine high-population countries, which Will culminate  in the New Delhi summit next December. Egypt has played a prominent role in this concerted international  effort to advance the cause of universal education, and we are most grateful that you and your wife should be  intending to honour this summit with your presence.
19.5 Mr President, it is a measure of your discermnent that you have constantly stressed the key role of  education in tackling the major problem of escalating population growth. Your country was one of the first  Arab States to recognize the importance of the population factor in planning for sustainable development, and  UNESCO has for many years been co-operating in the development of Egyptian population education projet%.  Earlier this year we joined with the United Nations Fund for Population Activities in organizing an  international congress on population and development in Istanbul, and the results of this meeting Will form part  of our input to the very important International Conference on Population and Development that your  govemment Will host in Cairo next year.
19.6 UNESCO has reason to be grateful for the strong and unfailing support that Egypt has given to its  Regional Office for Science and Technology in the Arab States (ROSTAS). We are co-operating with Egypt in  a number of projects in the field of science and technology - including activities relating to energy questions,  biosphere reserves, science and teclmology management, computerization of the Middle East News Agency
10  (MENA) and the establishment of a data bank for me State Information Service - and we would hope this  collaboration could be strengthened in the future.
19.7 Your Excellency, one of the guiding concems of your presidency has been to reconcile change with  continuity. Continuity in the Egyptian context is indissociable from your country’s age-old and incomparable  civilization - one of the cradles of world civilization. UNESCO is proud to have played its part in preserving  this heritage through its international campaign for the safeguarding of the Nubian monuments. This campaign  is now being followed up by co-operation in your national projects for the establishment of the Nubia Museum  in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Cairo and in the development of the Master  Plan for the Giza Pyramids Plateau.
19.8 The other great national cultural project with which we are associated occupies a very special place in  the hearts and minds of ail those for whom the quest for knowledge is the supreme human adventure. Since 1  visited your country in 1988 for the laying of the foundation stone of the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, much has  been accomplished in this context with the support of the International Campaign for the Revival of the  Ancient Library of Alexandria. With the signing last Sunday of the agreement between the national authorities  and the prize-winning architects, all associated with this project rejoice that the dream of a major new library  serving the contemporary needs of Egypt and the region and testiying to one of the great moments of human  civilization should be entering its operational phase and thus on me way to becoming a reality. 1 know to what  extent, Sir, you have been a large fund-miser for the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, but 1 like to see this as an  international vènture.
19.9 Mr President, we greet you today as an outstanding national leader but also as a distinguished world  statesman. For you have always seen your national mission in a wider international context and sought to  contribute to peace and development on a global scale. The leaders of the African continent have demonstrated  their faith in you by re-electing you as Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, with the task of  overseeing the implementation of me Cairo Declaration aimed at raising the living standards of the African  people and moving towards greater African integration in the years ahead. You have our best wishes and  promise of support in mis vital undertaking.
19.10 1 cannot conclude, Mr President, without referring to a matter of the highest importance for the whole  international community - the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. As bath the President of the General  Conference and the Chairperson of the Executive Board have emphasized from the start, your country has  played a key role in efforts to restore peace in the Middle East, and no one cari ignore the significant  contribution of Egypt to the historic agreement reached last September. You have - 1 know, Sir - just retumed  from the United States of America where you were pursuing your efforts to strengthen and develop the peace  dynamic. Thanks to your diplomacy, Egypt remains an essential point of reference in the search for harmony  and understanding in the Middle East. The international community owes you a debt of gratitude for all you  have done and continue to do in the service of peace and development in Egypt and the world at large. Thank  you, Mr President, and welcome to UNESCO.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Diiector-General. Your Excellency, 1 am honoured to ask you to address the twenty-  seventh session of UNESCO’s General Conference.
(21.1) His Excellency Mr Hosni MUBARAK, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt (Translation from the  Arabie):  Mr Prcsidcnt of the General Conference of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Boatd,  Mr Director-General of UNESCO, allow me at the beginning of my speech to convey to you my thanks and  appreciation for the opportunity to meet you in this ancient City, and to exchange views with you at this important  Conference which coincides with the beginning of an important stage in the history of humanity. We hope that  this stage will witness a great human renaissance to which we shall a11 contribute through creative co-operation  and interaction, while discarding conflict, extremism and hatred. UNESCO must make a palpable contribution to  this task, demonstrating the same ability which it bas shown in canying out its mission in past decades.
(21.2) As you know, my country, with its African and Arab mots and its Islamic identity, has witnessed  successive civilizations on its territory, and has been the crucible of various cultures. For thousands of years, the  people of Egypt have acted as a bridge linking various peoples and cultures and bringing them closer together.  They have managed to assimilate the essence of the human mission which is based on unity through plurality, on  homogeneity through diversity and on cohesion, which derives fmm an attachment to the same objectives and a  common destiny.
(21.3) The land of Egypt provided a vast arena within which African Pharaonic culture, Hellenic and Roman  cultures and ultimately Arab Islamic culture interacted. Their interaction did not lead to conflicts or clashes but  rather gave birth to a prodigious spiritual heritage, a unique cultural treasure and a deep belief in mari’‘’ vocation,  as God’s servant on earth, which is one of construction and development, of unity ratier than division, of increase  rather than dilapidation.
(21.4) Ladies and gentlemen, as we meet today, our modem world is shaken by many trends, subjected to  conflicting factors which pull and push in a manner never witnessed before by man. Some of these factors carry  the ingredients of transformation and change for the better, while others are ominous and carry the potential for  conflict and confrontation. This situation imposes on us a special responsibility. at this very crucial juncture: to  take a decisive position in favour of peace, stability and security, in the face of violence, tension and anxiety,  confirming the rule of sound reasoning, science and knowledge over the claims of obscurantism, ignorance, and  intolerance.
(21.5) We are facing together a historical challenge which cannot be ignored or avoided. We cannot but face up  to that challenge with clear thinking and open-mindedness, reviving hopc through work and the staunch defence  of mari’‘’ right to peace and development and extending to a.ll peoples an equal opportunity to contribute to the  building of the future.
(21.6) Some people have recently propagated theories according to which the world, having got rid of acute  political conflicts and destructive military confrontation, has moved on to an era of conflicts between civilizations  and cultures. This is a most erroneous and dangerous concept. Morwver, if it proved to be true, it would mean  that mankind was retreating instead of advancing and was in decline rather than progressing. Political conflicf  even when it reaches its climax and takes the form of a military show-down is less dangerous than a conflict of  civilizations and cultures. The latter form of conflict, being insoluble, remains in people’s hearts and minds for  centuries, even if it lacks any moral or ethical justification.
(21.7) If human hiitory has witnessed at certain periods forms of racial, religious and ideological conflict, this  phenomenon has nevertheless remained confiied to periods of deterioration and decline. Therefore, it is
10  unacceptable to say that man on the threshold of the twenty-fiit century, having conquered the atom and outer  space, is once more passing through such a stage.
(21.8) Sound logic rejects the thwry of the eonflict of civilizations. For civilization is a factor of unity and not  of division. It brings people together under the banner of reason. Knowledge is also universal by defiition. It is  neither national nor racial. Morwver, knowledge bas no bonndaries or frontiers which may impede its  propagation and dissemination. The human heritage is one and indivisible and all peoples have contributed  towards its formation and enrichment. Coexistence and integration have constituted one of me basic factors  contributing to the development of human society since time immemorial.
(21.9) The decline of lofty values and the violation of human rights under the banner of abominable racist and  ethnie slogans, which we witness in certain regions, are but the exceptions which confirm the rule, divergences  liom today’s values and principles, a test of our collective ability to get rid once and for all of the residues of the  ages of darkness and coemion and to eliminate the remaining manifestations of backwardness and decay in order  to pave the way for a new era of hopes and dreams for mankind.
(21.10) Dear frlends, this erronwus way of posing the question, which 1 have already mentioned has been  accompanied by a thesis which is no less erronwus or slanderous, that Islam - as a religion and a cultnre - has  become a factor of dissension and hostility between people, that it sows the seeds of hatred and rancour between  Muslims and the rest of mankind and is thus likely to become an instrument of a new polarization, reminisœnt of  the polarization which caused the world SO much suffering during the Cold War.
(21.11) Nothing could be further from the truth than this calumny. It has no idwlogical basis in true Islam  which is and Will for ever be a universal message addressed to all human beings in a spirit of justice and equality.  Piety is the only criterion of judgement between an Arab and a non-Arab and all human beings are equal before  God who said in the Holy Book: ‘0 mankind, We have created you from a male and a female and divided you into  nations and tribes that you might get to know one another. The noblest of you in Allah’s sight is he who fears Him  most’. He also said: ‘There is no compulsion in religion’. No other words cari better express the equality and  fraternity between human beings ii-respective of their race or colour.
(21.12) If we look at the conduct of Muslims in the societies which they established all over the world, we find  out that their history, especially at times of prosperity, was a mode1 of coexistence, harmony, tolerance and  rejection of segregation, discrimination and intolerance. They did not erect ramparts or barriers against other  peoples but built bridges and communication channels and put up fortresses of science and knowledge where they  drew upon the heritage of others, benefiting from it and adding to it, leaving behind cultural imprima which will  mmin for centuries to corne.
(21.13) And this is not all. Muslim society has permitted variety and pluralism even within the community  itself, as witness the diversity of philosophical visions and independent thwlogical judgements reflecting  different conditions and cultural backgrounds. Islam has not imposed a pattem of thinking, nor has it denied  human beings the right to adapt to prevailing social situations in this region or that.
(21.14) Any theses or practiœs which run counter to this spirit and which are currently attributed to Islam have  nothing to do with Islam. They are hostile to it, seeking to deform its image and falsify its essence and teachings.  Their propagators have lost their perceptions and their discernment and have become destructive elements  attempting to undermine Islam from within after it bas resisted its malevolent detractors and enemies.
(21.15) Mr President of the General Conference, UNESCO has played a pioneering role in the renaissance of  world culture, in the safeguard of the cultural heritage of mankind, in the rapprochement between the various  races and peoples and in addressing the major contemporary issues and problems. Your Conference will discuss  one of the serious challenges facing the onward march of mankind on the road of peaœ and pmgress, namely, the  population explosion.
(21.16) This issue constitutes one of the main preoccupations of all those concerned witlr the future of humanity.  We should all face this problem equipped with a clear vision, a scientifïc approach and the determination to  engage in creative co-operation, while fully aware that the danga is not confiied to one continent sinœ the whole  world has becorne one big village, no part of which cari exist in isolation. We must, therefore, face this danger as  one following an elaborate plan which draws upon concerted efforts and assembles resources and capabilities.
(21.17) In Egypt, we have given this problem a degree of attention which is equalled only by oui determination  to raise the quality of education to the highest possible level SO that we cari move forward into the future, boldly  and conlïdently, and contribute to the development of life on earth, linking a glorlous past with a glowing and  joyful future.
(21.18) Lad& and gentlemen, nowadays we dream of a world without barriers or front&, without wars or  conflicts and we are fully confident that mari cari not only control nature and hamess it to achieve progress and  build civilization but cari also overcome the evil inside himself and cleanse hiiself of ignorance, spite and  fanaticism.
(21.19) We have a wonderful dream which Springs fmm the values of tolerance and coexistence, values deeply  rooted in the civilization which 1 represent before you: a dream which derives its force fmm the experience of  human stmggle in every continent throughout the ages.
(21.20) Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to cal1 upon you, from this rostrum, to support this aspiration for one  world without barriers or boundaries:  for constant intense communication between peoples, and for a culture capable of adapting to a changing  world;  for relations based on tolerance among minorities and communities;  for a greater exchange of experience among nations;  for equal rights enabling all cultures to express their respective identities;  for the free propagation of ideas throughout the world;  for the protection of the rights of a11 individuals to education and the acquisition of experience and  knowledge;  for equal opportunities to education and to work for a11 men and women without discrimination;  for international co-operation - between govemments and between peoples - to build a world society  free from poverty and disease.
(21.21) Together we shall move ahead, sccuring human welfare, radiating love and achieving glory. Together,  we shall achieve our aims and attain our aspirations. Thank you all.
(22.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation fmm the Arabie):  Your Excellency, on behalf of all participating nations at this session, 1 am honoured to extend to YOU  once again our sincere thanks. 1 wish you success and progress and prosperity to the Egyptian people.
(22.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 cal1 on the Director-General to present the Avicenna Gold Medal to His  Excellency President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak.
23. The DIRECT.OR-GENERAL:  The Avicenna Gold Medal has been awarded to His Excellency Mr Mohammed Hosni Mubarak,  President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, in recognition of his profound commitment to the cause of peace and  justice in the world and bis outstanding contribution to the promotion of education and international co-  operation. It is with great pleasure, Sir, that 1 confer on you the Avicenna Gold MedaI.  (The Director-General presented President Mubarak with the Avicenna Gold Medal)  :&dl YL
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 would ask you to remaiu seated so that we cari say farewell to His Excellency  President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak. The meeting is adjourned for a few minutes. Thank you very much.  (La stknce est suspendue a 17 h.20 ; elle est reprise a 17 h.25)  (M. Edde, Liban, prend la presidence)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaci6n)  OBCYX,U,EHIIE BOIIPOCOB OBIlJE$I IIOJIklTkIKkI (npoRonmeme)  (&Z) LWI L.&JI ULA  d%-PR#% ( 2x )
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We now continue with the debate. 1 now cal1 on Ambassador Paul Mer@ head of the Luxembourg  delegation to take the floor.
26.1 M. MERTZ (Luxembourg) :  Monsieur le President, je suis confus d’être le premier à reprendre la routine de ce débat genéral après  les moments importants que notre Confërence vient de vivre. Je suis sûr que les paroles inspirees que vient de  nous adresser le Président Hosni Moubarak donneront un élan renouvele à nos travaux.
26.2 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais me joindre aux &ninents  orateurs qui m’ont precédé à cette tribune pour féliciter le Président de la Conférence de son élection brillante  a notre tête. Je tiens également a remercier le Directeur general pour la qualitk des documents qui nous ont Cté  soumis. Je voudrais, enfin, vous assurer que mon gouvernement et mon pays soutiendront activement la  réalisation des objectifs et des programmes que nous allons définir en commun.
26.3 Monsieur le Président, les signes d’espoir et de renouveau se multiplient au sein de notre Organisation.  La lutte contre l’analphabétisme est em& dans une phase que j’espère décisive. La coopération de l’UNESCO  avec les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies s’est renforcck La Décennie mondiale du  developpement culturel a posé les jalons d’une culture du developpement capable de faire face aux risques  dune croissance qui ne serait pas maîtride et donc agressive. Bref, l’UNESCO a retrouvé le rôle que lui  impartit son Acte constitutif. Le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1994-1995 reflete cet Ctat de choses.  Ainsi, en se réfkrant a ce programme, ma délegation note avec satisfaction l’importance accrue accordee a la  mission éthique & l’UNESCO, à son engagement en faveur dune culture & la paix. Nous saluons tout  particulièrement la priorité accordke a l’amelioration de la condition feminine, et notamment l’objectif relatif a  la participation accrue des femmes dans la vie économique, culturelle et politique. Nous saluons la volonté de  mieux répondre aux besoins et aspirations des jeunes et les actions prevues en faveur du continent africain  ainsi que de l’Europe centrale et orientale, sans oublier, bien entendu, les actions entreprises pour consolider le  fragile, mais réel, espoir de paix au Proche-Orient.
26.4 Monsieur le President, plus que jamais l’UNESCO doit retrouver sa vocation universelle. J’ai plaisir a  saluer, dans ce contexte, les nouveaux pays membres que nous avons pu accueillir, en assez grand nombre, lors  de l’ouverture de la Conference. Au moment où l’affmation des diversin% culturelles risque malheureusement  quelquefois de se dtvoyer en exaltation des exclusivités nationales, lune des tâches importantes de l’UNESCO  est incontestablement de promouvoir une culture de la tolérance. Notre Organisation est et doit redevenir de  plus en plus un lieu de réflexion, d’ttude et de dialogue. Mais avant tout, elle doit se donner les moyens de son  combat pour le respect de la personne humaine. Aussi, mon gouvernement ne peut que saluer les initiatives  prises recemment par l’UNEW0 pour renforcer son rôle intellectuel et notamment la création des trois  organes de réflexion que sont le Forum de tiflexion ad hoc, la Commission internationale sur I’education pour  le XXIe siecle et la Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement.
26.5 Mais la réflexion, Monsieur le President, ne doit pas se faire uniquement au sommet, elle doit  également atteindre l’opinion publique, sous peine de rester lettre morte. Certes, des efforts considerables ont  Cte entrepris dans ce sens, mats I’action de lUNESCO reste encore trop ignor& par les m&lias. Il faut donc  que les commissions nationales puissent pleinement jouer leur r6le d’intermédiaire entre le Siege et les  gouvernements, les universités, les organisations non gouvernementales et les communautes intellectuelles. Ce  rôle des commissions nationales est essentiel dans un pays comme le mien, où lWNESC0 ne dispose guère  d’autre enracinement dans la réalit nationale que la commission nationale. Ainsi notre commission nationale a  su mener a bien un certain nombre d’initiatives que je me plais a indiquer : une anthologie sur le thème de la  paix, un modèle-type d’enseignement muticulturel et divers projets de coopération, dont une etude  philosophique sur les valeurs ethiques dans l’enseignement.
26.6 Mais c’est des maintenant que le Luxembourg se prepare a célebrer le cinquantieme anniversaire de  RJNESCO en 1995. Elue ce qu’il est convenu d’appeler la capitale culturelle de la Communauté européenne  pour cette même année 1995, la ville de Luxembourg, et avec elle l’ensemble du pays, ont décide de placer les  manifestations qui seront organisées a cette occasion sous le thème de la toltkance. Ce sera la notre apport,  modeste, mais non moins fervent, a cette Anm$e de la tol&ance. Je vous invite chaleureusement à y participer.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Luxembourg delegation and cal1 on His Excellency Mr Fulgence Fanony,  Minister of Education and head of the delegation of the Republic of Madagascar, to take the floor.
28.1 M. FANONY (Madagascar) : Monsieur le Pr&.ident, Madame la Presidente du Conseil extcutif, Monsieur le Directeur genéral,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne saurais commencer ma brève intervention devant cette vingt-  septième session de la Conference g&kale & l’UNFW0 sans tout d’abord saluer Monsieur le Président et  sans le feliciter ensuite de sa brillante election a la tête du Bureau de notre assemblée. En mon nom personnel  et au nom de la delégation de Madagascar que j’ai l’honneur de diriger, j’ai plaisir a dire combien nous  comptons sur son expérience et sa sagesse pour que nos travaux soient couronnes de suc& au terme de nos  debats. M’acquittant dune tâche particulièrement agréable, je voudrais egalement m’adresser à Mme la  Prksidente du Conseil exécutif pour rendre hommage au devouement dont elle a fait preuve dans I’exercice de  ses fonctions au sein de cet organe important de l’Organisation qui, sous son élegante ferule, a accompli son  mandat dans de tres bonnes conditions et, en tout cas, à la satisfaction des pays membres du Conseil executif,  dont le mien.
28.2 Monsieur le Directeur general, cette vingt-septième session de la Conf&ence générale coïncide avec  la fin de votre premier mandat en qualite de chef du Secrétariat de l’UNESCO. A l’heure du bilan, votre action  a Cte sanctionnée par un jugement sans appel : celui qui vous condamne à accepter un nouveau et dernier  mandat a l’unanimité ou, au pire, a la quasi-unanimité des Etats membres de l’UNESCO. Votre performance  merite d’être soulignee, car vous avez et& choisi pour mettre en oeuvre les réformes dont l’Organisation avait  besoin, vous vous êtes acquitte de cette tâche, et il vous reviendra encore de faire avancer l’UNESCO vers les  rivages de l’an 2000, de perfectionner l’outil que vous nous avez confie pour qu’il soit davantage capable de  répondre aux attentes des Etats membres et de la communaute intellectuelle internationale ; il vous incombe  surtout daller au-devant des aspirations profondes des pays en dkfeloppement en ce qui concerne une  éducation de qualité pour tous, un epanouissement culturel véritable et un accès plus facile a la science et à la  technologie modernes. Tous nos voeux vous accompagnent donc dans votre entreprise exaltante, et nous  esp&ons que l’UNESCO, qui suscite par ailleurs depuis quelques annees l’int&êt de nombre d’Etats  nouvellement souverains, pourra bientôt tirer profit de la participation de ceux des Etats membres fondateurs  qui ont eté tentes a un moment donne de prendre congb dune structure de coopkration internationale a leurs  yeux inadequate.
28.3 Nous affrontons en effet des temps nouveaux - le temps en particulier d’une coopération elargie et  universelle, à l’abri des confrontations globales, délivrée de l’antagonisme des visions du monde et lib&e  desormais de la hantise d’une conflagration mondiale, hantise qui impregne de part en part tout l’Acte  constitutif de l’UNESCO. Pour autant, le mon& a venir n’est pas au bout de ses peines. Il reste tant à faire pour
10  que la paix s’instaure durablement, malgré des progres remarquables au Moyen-Orient et en Afrique du Sud  par exemple, et que lUNESC0 puisse légitimement oeuvrer pour elever les dkfenses de la paix dans I’esprit  des hommes. Au-deht de la confusion entretenue par les conflits locaux, aussi meurtriers  qu’incomprehensibles, la certitude qui se dégage est que les hommes aspirent tous a un gouvernement  démocratique et que les sociétes sont appelles a evoluer dans une bconomie de marché ouverte, creatrice de  richesses et d’emplois, qui ne serait pas régie par la loi de la jungle.
28.4 Dans le sens de ce grand mouvement de democratisation, le peuple malgache vient de mener a terme  un processus a l’issue duquel le pays s’est dote de nouvelles institutions politiques démocratiques. Il a designe  en toute libertt! les dirigeants dignes de sa confiance et en phase avec ses legitimes pmoccupations. Par la mise  en oeuvre de l’altemance politique, après une transition politique somme toute pacifique, nous pensons avoir  cre6 des conditions propres a promouvoir dans notre pays un developpement humain durable et &@able, une  culture fond6e sur la democratie et la tol&ance et la participation effective de toute la population a la gestion  de ses propres affaires, dans le respect des droits individuels fondamentaux. C’Btait ht notre modeste  contribution à la redecouverte contemporaine de la democratie, de l’Etat de droit, du respect des choix  populaires comme valeurs constitutives d’un modèle d’organisation politique desonnais incontesd.
28.5 Parvenus a ce stade et devant faire face a nombre de contraintes tant internes qu’externes (la pauvretk  extrême de la population, les coûts de l’ajustement stmcturel, le poids de la dette extkieure, les attentes  relatives a la décentralisation effective des pouvoirs au sein de la societe, l’impatience ltgitime des couches  sociales nombreuses), il nous reste a apprendre l’essentiel : a jouir d’une vie meilleure à tres bref delai. Pour  reprendre les termes du philosophe QUENTIN SKINNEB : “Comment édifier une vraie democratie, celle dans  laquelle le gouvernement est pour le peuple comme le resultat de ce que ce peuple en a fait” ? Nous comptons  le faire, en b&%ciant entre autres de cette solida& morale et intellectuelle qui est le fondement de la  mission Bthique de l’UNESCO.
28.6 Nous savons que, fidele a sa mission primitive, au-dela de la conception et de l’execution de ses  programmes biennaux, lVNESC0 a entrepris un vaste travail d’investigation pour frayer les voies de l’avenir  et declenche une reflexion approfondie pour elucider les contradictions inextricables d’un monde en transition  vers ce qui ressemble bien a l’inconnu et qui pourrait bien être ce fameux trou noir des astrophysiciens. Pour sa  part, l’UNESCO n’a pas manque de recourir à une boussole pour definir son orientation. Je veux parler des  travaux des differentes instances de recherche et d’échanges cr&es par lVNESC0 : le Forum de reflexion ad  hoc, destine a “dégager les tendances nouvelles qui pourraient inspirer l’Organisation durant la dkennie a  venir” ; la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle (Commission Delors) ; la  Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement (Commission Perez de Cuellar).
28.7 Si je ne devais retenir qu’une seule idée de tous ces travaux en cours menés par des personnes a la  notoriett! certaine, c’est bien celle du rôle fondamental de l’&lucation dans la recherche de la solution de tous  les problèmes qui touchent l‘humanite, comme point de depart de toutes les actions requises et comme lieu de  concentration de tous les efforts attendus de la communaute internationale. Le Pr&&ient programme biennal
(26 C/5) et celui qui est soumis à notre appreciation dans le document 27 C/5 reflètent d’ailleurs correctement  cette priorité presque absolue a l’éducation dans toutes ses dimensions (fonction d’enseignement et fonction  d’integration politique, spirituelle, economique, sociale et culturelle). Mais certains sceptiques semblent  vouloir bouder les résultats partiels acquis par le Forum de reflexion ad hoc, dans la mesure où, d’apres eux,  c’est un truisme que de dire que l’tiucation tient une place capitale dans le dispositif qui vise a reconcilier  l’humanitk avec elle-même.
28.8 Engages nous-mêmes dans une vaste reforme du système Educatif malgache, nous apprkions à sa  juste valeur la vision futuriste et a premiere vue utopique d’un système mondial d’education ouverte de  l’UNESCO fonde sur la transmission a distance du savoir pour abolir toutes les ‘distances” - sociale, culturelle,  financière et autres - dans un espace pklagogique mondial, et visant a un partage universel, libre et 6quitable  de l’Éducation, de la science et de la culture. Car c’est peut-être la voie par laquelle les enfants et les jeunes  auront accès aux connaissances qui favoriseront leur epanouissement et leur permettront de s’insérer  efficacement dans la vie sociale.
28.9 Sur le terrain des r&lités concrètes, nous tentons, a notre niveau, de moderniser notre systéme  tducatif pour l’adapter aux besoins r&ls des invididus et du marche du travail, d’une part, et pour ameliorer la  qualite de l’enseignement, d’autre part. Nos efforts portent notamment sur les domaines suivants : le français  comme langue d’enseignement a un certain niveau, la formation des maîtres, la fourniture de matériels
367    pédagogiques, la généralisation de l’enseignement primaire, la rénovation des programmes, l’Éducation  cnvironnementale, l’intégration des principes d’instruction civique, de valeurs collectives, de la culture de paix,  du développement, de la démocratie, etc., la restauration de l‘hygiene scolaire, la lutte contre les Beaux de la  drogue et du sida à l’école, etc. Bref, il s’agit de réhabiliter et de r&lHinir l’éducation dans la perspective dune  croissance économique soutenue, gage d’un développement durable. Vaste tâche à la fois complexe et  exaltante dans un pays pauvre qui fait le pari de preparer les citoyens et les groupes sociaux a la démocratie,  d’assurer le développement par la qualification des ressources humaines appropriées, et de developper les  aptitudes des apprenants dans le sens dune compatibilité croissante avec les besoins du marche du travail  productif dans tous les secteurs.
28.10 Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1994-1995 et  sous réserve de mes remarques anterieures sur le caractère resolument prioritaire de l’tducation, je  m’abstiendrai de commenter plus avant le document 27 CX. Je l’approuve globalement sur la base des  recommandations du Conseil exécutif, aux travaux duquel d’ailleurs nous avons bte étroitement associes. Bien  entendu, nous prenons note avec regret de la faiblesse relative du Programme de participation qui a un impact  direct sur les actions propres de chaque Etat membre, tout comme nous comprenons la concentration du  programme qui est devenu plus lisible, notamment au niveau des grandes orientations et de leurs implications.
28.11 Je remarquerai cependant que le recul apparent de la place de la cooperation technique pour le  développement risque de nuire à la perception de l’UNESCO dans les pays en developpement, au moment où  lc dialogue et la coopération avec d’autres bailleurs de fonds tels que le PNUD, 1’UNICEF et la Banque  mondiale gagnent en intensité et en consistance.
28.12 Il en est de même de la vacuité du programme Priorité Afrique, une coquille vide et st&ile dont la  mise en oeuvre demeure hypothéquée par le manque de ressources aggravé par l’absence de projets établis par  Ics Etats africains, celle-ci pouvant être la conséquence de celui-la. Le rôle de l’éducation dans le  développement faisant l’unanimité de tous les organismes de développement, la prise en charge pratique de ce  secteur par ces organismes éloigne d’autant l’UNESCO du terrain même si, - nous l’avons vu -> celle-ci peut  demeurer le centre même de la réflexion sur l’éducation, la science et la culture, mais a condition qu’elle  considère les idees vraiment nouvelles, peut-être dérangeantes, qui lui seront soumises. Ceci étant, je tiens à  Ieliciter M. le Directeur genéral pour sa claire conscience des attentes de l’Afrique et sa volonté daller de  l’avant, nonobstant la faiblesse des ressources à sa disposition et l’immobilisme du programme Priorité  Afrique. Les Assises UNESCO pour l’Afrique qu’il prévoit de tenir dans les mois qui viennent sauront, nous  l’espérons, dissiper les malentendus et créer une compréhension plus pertinente d’un continent renaissant a la  démocratie, mais affaibli par la pauvreté, les guerres civiles et les catastrophes naturelles.
28.13 Pour terminer, permettez-moi de réaffirmer notre attachement à l’Organisation et, en dépit de  quelques motifs d’inquiétude que nous avons cru utile d’exprimer, de l’encourager dans ses efforts d’adaptation  aux nouvelles conditions du monde. Nous continuerons ainsi a participer selon nos possibilités aux travaux de  l’UNESCO, que ce soit ici a la Conférence générale, au Conseil executif ou dans d’autres instances ou notre  contribution peut être de quelque intérêt. Notre commission nationale et la délégation permanente, quant à  clles, maintiendront avec le Secrétariat les liens de coopération fructueuse qui existent si heureusement entre  eux. Cet engagement et cette volonté de coopération ne feront pas défaut pendant le prochain exercice. C’est la  mison pour laquelle nous avons sollicité l’application des dispositions de l’article IVG, paragraphe 8(c), de  l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO pour participer au vote lors de vingt-septième session de la Conférence  génerale. A son corps défendant, Madagascar éprouve en effet des difficultés au niveau de ses réserves en  devises et ne peut faire face dans l’immédiat a ses obligations statutaires, mais se propose de se mettre à jour  aussitôt que possible. Monsieur le Président, Chers collègues, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie  vivement de votre aimable attention.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Malagasy delegation and cal1 on MS Elizabeth de Caldera, Minister of Education  and head of the Venezuelan delegation, to take the floor.
(30.1) MS DE CALDERA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr F’resident of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished delegates, Your Excellency the Ambassador of Venezuela to France, ladies and gentlemen,
1 should lilce to begin my statement with congratulations, on behalf of the Government of Venezuela, to  Dr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, whose re-election for a further term as Director-General of UNESCO has been  unanimously endorsed by the members of the Executive Board at this Conference. We wish you every success as  you continue with your eminent mission. 1 also wish to congratulate Dr Ahmed Sayyad on his election as  President of this twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, and am certain that he will skilfully steer the  discussions throughout the course of these sessions, wbich are of crucial importance to tbe strengthening of the  Organization.
(30.2) Today we confront a world that is complex and convulsed, a world of changes SO profound that it is  difficult for the individual either profitably to assimilate the effeets of all the transformations that have occurred,  or to react and mspond in a timely and appropriate manner to each new situation. Faced with expectations SO  critical and demanding, we feel the urgent need for intellectual development, in order to prevent, or mitigate, the  grave dangers still threatening the political, social, and economic stability of SO many countries. Al1 this increases  the truly transcendent example - in the lessons it teaches - of an institution such as UNESCO, whose  unquestioned authority in the fields of education, science, culture and communication has been recognized far and  wide.
(30.3) Venezuela has always shown solidarity with all initiatives aimed at more fruitful relations, which have  enabled common goals to be set SO that peoples may lead better lives in conditions of proper regard for their  dignity and ethical values. Despite the political and economic diffkulties which my country bas recently known, it  has spared no effort, nor has it neglected any opportunity, to defend its ideals and the sway of its democratic  system as tbe indispensable means of securing its objectives of social, economic and cultural progrcss. In  consequence, Venezuela has been fnm in promoting education that is both equitable and of a high standard,  encompassing all strata of society; in appropriately expanding its scientific and technological activities; and in  fostering and disseminating a cultural policy that takes account of the creative vocation of its own people, while  securing a more active presence in the most innovative fields of communication.
(30.4) We have persevered in our struggle to eradicate illiteracy, and to do SO have not only done what is  indispensable to cure the symptoms, but also striven to get to the very mot of the evil by focusing on programmes  for both qualitative and quantitative impmvement in basic education, so as to avoid recunent cultural pitfalls -
371    such as functional illiteracy. Efforts towards this objective have been most effectively aided, in practice, by the  process of administrative decentralization which the National Govermnent has been carrying forward with the aim  of making all public services both more efficient and more ratio&.
(30.5) My government received, and studied with considerable interest, the 1993-2003 Ten-Yesr Education  Plan submitted to it by the National Education Board on 27 June this year. Drafting this plan necessitated a series  of consultations with individuals and institutions of national and international mnown, among which UNESCO  played an outstanding role through the International Institute for Educational Planning.
(30.6) My country attaches great importance to the tasks to be carried out by the International Commission on  Education for the Twenty-First Century, chaired by Jacques Delors, at which we feel most honoured to be  members. We also actively co-operate with the World Commission on Culture and Development, whose President  is Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, just as we do with the ad hoc Forum of Reflection of the Executive Board.
(30.7) We agree with the statements of the Executive Board regardlng the outstanding importance of the  Organization’s ethical task of promoting a culture of peace. The serious social, ethnie and religious confrontations  chat we are witnessing in various parts of the world smply demonstrate how much remains to be done in the field  of education in order firmly to establish the authentic values of human coexistence. Venezuela accordingly  supports the educational work carried out both by the Associated Schools and by the Foundation for Human  Rights, through the UNESCO chair created for the purpose.
(30.8) Convinced as we are of their fruitful results, we reiterate our support for the various activities promoted  by the Regional Centre for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (CRESALC), which operates in  Venezuela and with which we co-operate on a permanent basis. Similarly, our country practises and defends  multinational, regional, and subregional integration and co-operation.
(30.9) In science and technology, our efforts throughout the period from 1989 to 1993 were concentrated on  three fundamental aims: to establish a scientific and technological infrastructure for the training of front-line  human resources; to develop capacities; for innovation within our production framework and to create the  appropriate political and social context for more effective action at the local, regional and international levels. AU  this has substantially helped to improve the academic qualifications of reseamhers in vsrious fields, whether  through the gmnting of fellowships, or through the new Researchers’ Programme, both in order to guarantee the  ability of the next generation of researchers to continue, and also to strengthen our Researchers’ Promotion System  and thereby encourage the everyday work of scientists. Of equal signifîcance have been activities aimed at forging  closcr links between the business and industrial sectors, and the scient& and technological sectors, in order to  meet the market’s demands more effectively. Indeed, attention here should especially be dimcted to the  programmes for management and administration in science and technology, the technology parks, the basic  technology enterprises, and the Sim6n Bolfvar International Centre for Scientific Co-operation, founded with  assistance from UNESCO.
(30.10) In the field of culture, Venezuela has maintained its leading role in the quest for links between  institutions, especially in the subregional context. Cultural integration has been one of the large-scale strategic  objectives towards which we have been striving at meetings attended by the Ministers of Culture of Latin  America and the Caribbean, meetings at which information policies and the training of human resources have  been considered priorities. 1 would also mention my country’s unfailing support for the development of music  among our youth, and our gratification at the results of this highly fruitful experiment. We are proud of the prize  awarded - with distinction - to Venezuela% Youth Symphony Orchestra (Orquesta Sinfdnica hvenil de  Venezuela) by the International Music Council, an organization which has close ties with UNESCO.
(30.11) My country has taken note, with great satisfaction, of the inclusion of the Upper C&oco-Casiquisre  Nature Reserve in the International Network of Biosphem Reserves. Likewise, 1 am pleased to inform you of our  steps to secure the inclusion on the list of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of the sites of Coro and Puerto  de la Vela in Falc6n State, for the sake of their historical and architectural interest.
(30.12) Within UNESCO’s spheres of competence, we have continued to participate in the International  Programme for the Development of Communication, as a strategy aimed at maximum use of our cultural,  technological and economic potential. We also paid particular attention to the recommendation put forward at the  meeting of National Commissions for UNESCO held recently in Havana to the effect that a draft resolution  should be approved on the audio-visual world of Latin American children, to be submitted to this Conference.
(30.13) We applaud the Director-General? steps to secure the effective presence of a11 UNESCO’s members. In  this regard, we trust that the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapom Will soon retum to the fold of this  Organization, and SO preserve its universal character.
(30.14) Only a few years ago, we were celebrating with great emotion the collapse of those material signs which  visibly embodied the terrible nightmare of the Cold War. We were equally pleased to observe the easing of  tension in those political confrontations on which used to be polarized the antagonisms between East and West.  Al1 this seemed to foreshadow a true and lasting peace. And yet today, SO short a time after such a welcome  moment, the fear has arisen again, in many parts of the globe, of falling back into conflicts that we thought we  had left behind. We are convinced that the ethical principles governing this world should follow certain  paradigms that correspond to the scientific, technological, cultural, and political phenomena characterizing the  manifold changes and transformations among which human beings evolve. Hence we share UNBSCo’s conviction  of the importance of education as an essential factor towards attaining a culture of peace, and SO sffording  humankind room to evolve on this planet. In this connection, we support the holding of the International  Conference on Education for International Understanding in Geneva in 1994. We would, in particular, stress the  desirability of dealing at that Conference with ways of aehieving a better understanding between peoples, as an  indispensable step towards seeuring the minimum of tolerance necessary to allow the seeds of peace to begin to  grow.
(30.15) Such a context enhances the value of the initiative of designating 1995 as the United Nations Year for  Tolerance, added to the felicitous eoincidence that the same year will see the fourth World Conference on  Women, to be held in China: for women, together with children, have been the most unjustly treated of beings,  with their rights constantly trampled underfoot. Here, 1 should stress that in Venezuela there are no traces of  social, cultural or political intolerance, still less intolerance on grounds of gender. As for women, they have won  for themselves outstanding positions in the various fields of national action, and have acquitted themselves very  efficiently.
(30.16) On the occasion of the next General Conference, UNESCO will be celebrating half a centtny of  existence. It approaches this anniversary in the enjoyment of as much moral and political authority as any  organization has ever possessed. In the twenty-fiist Century, this Organization’s network must reach out to the  great goal of harmonious development for humankind, which makes it urgent to think afresh about the very role of  education, both in the all-round training of human beings and in the defence of moral values, and as an ideal  platform from which to wage the struggle against the exclusion of less favoured groups. Consequently, we  entertain the hope that a major step forward will be taken towards reducing the poverty, epidemics, illiteracy,  social inadequacies, scientific and technological shortcomings and various forms of discrimination which are now  grinding down the majority of the world’s population.
(30.17) 1 cannot conclude my statement without expressing our gratitude to the Director-General for the  emegency assistance that he extended to Venezuela, in order to rehabilitate a group of schools damaged in the  wake of Hurricane Bret when this recently struck our soil.
(30.18) Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, we hope for great things from this important meeting of minds: to see new forms of co-operation blaze  trails and open up horizons in a world that is becoming ever more dynamic and interdependent: whenee the need  to join forces and pool resources that will allow the integration of our peoples. We must continue to serve, with  dedication and perseverance, in this difficult but fascinating task of building a society that will be a fairer one for  the generations that succeed us. This is the challenge to be faced without flinching. Ladies and gentlemen, the  future depends on us.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Venezuelan delegation. 1 will now adjourn the meeting, which will resume  tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. in the same room.  La séance est levée & 18 h.05  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 18.05