Cinquième séance plénière
27 octobre 1993, à 10 h.10  président : M. SAYYAD (Yheu)  puis : M. h4AIOR (Roumanie)  Fifth plenary meeting
27 OKTS~PFI 1993 r: B lO.iO  r@mWWTeJIb: P-H” CAMRQ (HeMeH)
3Xl’eM: T-H MHop (PyDlbIHW,)
3AJl,OJI>KEHHOCTH II0 B3HOCAM (npoflon>Kenne)  k4 ;JaLlr aKI~JI  %R4+B(kJf>
(1.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, bonjour. Je déclare ouverte la 5e séance plénière.
(1.2) Je voudrais, tout d’abord, vous informer que le Directeur général m’a transmis deux communications,  l’une du Cambodge et l’autre de la République centrafricaine invoquant l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c) de l’Acte  constitutif. Souhaitez-vous que le Cambodge et la République centrafricaine puissent voter conformément aux  dispositions de l’Acte constitutif ?
(1.3) En l’absence d’abjections, il en est ainsi &&I$ Je vous remercie.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OlXYXJlEHHE BOHPOCOB OSIlI,Efi IIOJIHTHKH (npo~on>Keaue)  (&ï) LWI L-J1 udia  ii@%%% ( $2 1
(2) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Nous allons donc commencer par le premier orateur de la liste pour ce matin. Je donne la parole à  S. Ext. M. Kamotho, ministre de l’éducation et chef de la délégation du Kenya.
3.1 Mr KAMOTHO (Kenya):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to join the distinguished colleagues who have spoken before me in  congratulating you on your election as President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. 1 believe that under your leadership, our business Will be conducted efficiently, and that the outcome  of our deliberations Will bear testimony to your distinguished stewardship. May 1 also associate myself and my  delegation with those who spoke before me in acknowledging the distinguished services rendered by the  outgoing President, Professor B.A. Ogot.
3.2 Mr President, we meet at a time when Africa is faced with formidable challenges. The debt burden of  many African countries continues to negate any meaningful recovery. This burden continues to accumulate,  despite rescheduling and refïnancing. Many parts of tbe continent are devastated by mari--made and natural  calamities. Most of the economies of African Member States are in a poor state and require urgent measures to  save the situation.
3.3 Mr President, as you are aware, Kenya has never supported any military coup anywhere in the world  and cannot, therefore, support what bas recently happened in Burundi. We believe that the recent democratic  elections tbere were free and fair, and genuinely represented the Will of the major@ of the people. We consider  it unacceptable to the people of Burundi and to the world as a whole for a few army officers to hijack and  reverse the wish of the majority. In this regard, Mr President, the people of Kenya join other peace-loving  nations in condemning the coup perpetrators and demand that they relinquish power, with immediate effect, to  the popularly elected Govermnent of Burundi.
3.4 Globally, Mr President, the end of East-West confrontation has resulted in tmprecedented political,  economic and social changes in the world. Unfortunately, the arrival of new-found freedom in some of these  countries has unleashed enormous potential for conflict. Old and hitherto suppressed political, religious, ethnie  and cultural divides have resurfaced in some places on such a wide scale that whatever was achieved in the past  in terms of peace has been lost. The end of bipolar ideological orientation has resulted in a materially divided  world, with one side economically advantaged and the other poor. Looking at development in the world today,  Mr President, it seems as though the human race is moving backwards. Despite major advances in science and  technology and a breakthrough in many spheres of human life, the challenges on the path to a wholesome life  are many and in some cases insurmountable. One only has to look around in our various countries to note the  number of illiterates in our societies, the increasing number of displaced people, marginalized groups and those  who are suffering from various diseases. The list is long.
3.5 Nevertheless, Mr President, there is still hope, a hope which is engraved in mari’‘’ ingenuity and  resourcefulness. In attempting to realize our objectives, we have a road mat is littered with chaff, stone and  mud. On this road, we cari travel together through boundless intellectual co-operation. 1 believe that UNESCO  is-the best forum for this co-operation, where we cari work and walk together to rediscover human values and  preserve them. In the Organization’s diversity, we cari develop our strength through a worldwide link with the  intellectual community.
3.6 However, Mr President, the future of UNESCO depends on its programmes and their acceptability to  the Member States. This gathering of distinguished delegates is being called upon to examine and approve the  Programme and Budget of the Organization as contained in document 27 C/5. Mr President, looking through  this document, one obtains the impression that over-concentration of programmes has taken place. Some  activities that were approved for implementation at the twenty-sixth session of the General Conference have not  been fully implemented. However, Kenya supports the Director-General’s priority list, which covers women,  Africa and the leastdeveloped countries. It is my eamest hope that funds Will be made available for the  implementation of programmes affecting these groups.
3.7 Concerning Major Programme Area 1, there are some issues of special significance on which 1 would  like to comment. Education for all was the long-term vision of the Jomtien Conference, but the achievement of  this goal remains a serious challenge, bath to individual Member States and to the international community. In  some cases, this is because of rapid population increase; generally, it is because of diminishing resources. The  problem is threatening to get out of hand and the international community must therefore consider new  strategies for dealing with it.
3.8 Conceming higher education, Mr President, my delegation endorses the programme activities designed  to promote inter-university co-operation and set up innovative machinery for the transfer of knowledge. In  particular, the twinning and networking arrangements Will enable the relatively younger universities in the  developing world to gain from the experiences of their older and more established counterparts in the developed  world. We support the creation of UNESCO chairs as a means of capacity-building for recipient universities. At  the same time, we would like to see further consideration devoted to staff development in the African  universities through the provision of scholarships.
3.9 Turning to science, Mr President, my delegation maintains that UNESCO constitutes the best  mechanism for international co-operation and for correcting the imbalances in the development of science and  technology that exist in today’s world. My delegation appreciates UNESCO’s efforts over the years to promote  international and regional co-operation.
3.10 With regard to Major Programme Area II: Science for progress and the environment, Kenya notes with  satisfaction the effort made by the Director-General to strengthen partnership between UNESCO and other  agencies engaged in international co-operation. This has been made possible through a new interdisciplinary  project for inter-agency co-operation entitled ‘Environment and population education and information for  human development’, which forms a link between UNESCO activities and the recommendations of the United  Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED). My delegation appreciates the restructuring
115    of the science programmes to refocus the activities of the intergovemmental science programmes in accordance  with the recommendations contained in Agenda 21 of UNCED, the aim being to ensure a proper balance  behveen long-term studies and the satisfaction of the immediate needs of developing countries. We endorse the  proposed changes as a new strategy for an integrated approach in solving problems of a global nature. In the  basic and engineering sciences, the main emphasis has been placed on training and the transfer of knowledge,  the UNESCO chairs and the existing co-operation networks in molecular and cellular biology, brain research,  microbiology and bioteclmology. Kenya is satisfied with this shift in emphasis, whereby scientists from  developing countries are enabled to carry out research in well-established scient& centres through UNESCO’s  short-term fellowship programme.
3.11 Mr President, Kenya supports Major Programme Area III: Culture: past, present and future, as a  means of reaffming our belief that for any meaningful development to occur, a people’s culture has to be taken  into consideration. Previously, development agencies have stressed economic indicators as yardsticks for the  measurement of economic development. However, it has become increasingly clear that the cultural dimension  impinges decisively on the economic sphere. Also, culture plays a significant role on the relations of a people  whether in times of strife or of peaceful coexistence. The democratic movement which is being witnessed today,  although universal, is culture-specific, differing in its form from country to country. The relationship between  culture and society or between culture and the environment is today in the forefront of world concems. More  than anything else, the state of the environment is a reflection of man’s values and attitudes. Any changes in the  relationship with the earth’s enviromnent Will necessarily entai1 a radical reappraisal in this regard.
3.12 In a sense, the state of the environment is, to a significant extent, a reflection of the state of our  culture. The degree to which culture affects the environment cari be seen in the manner in which a balance is  maintained, for example, in the relationship between the built and the natural environment. For a long time,  UNESCO’s efforts have been concentrated on the prescrvation and protection of the physical cultural heritage.  However, the present programmes caver measures aimed at the intangible aspects of culture.
3.13 In the area of language, we recommend that UNESCO include in its programme such issues as  principles and skills in alphabet design and the development of literacy mater&. We also cal1 on UNESCO to  re-examine the question of artistic creation and copyright, which has never received adequate attention.
3.14 Mr President, in this world of imbalances, only one resource is shared equally - the resource of culture  and human wisdom and understanding. For there is no culture in the North or South that has not preserved the  most sparkling reflections - on life and how it is best lived - of individual thinkers among its ancestors, of the  diversity of cultures and of understanding.
3.15 Information and communication are crucial to national development. With the help of UNESCO,  through extra-budgetary funding, the Government of Kenya bas established 11 rural newspapers over the last
14 years. Through these, together with radio services in Kiswahili, which is our national language, as well as in  English and 17 local dialects, the vast majority (some 90 per cent) of Kenya’s population living in rural areas  are easily reached. Kenya therefore supports the proposaIs contained in Major Programme Area Iv:  Communication, information, and informatics in the service of humanity. The objectives of the programme  contain an unequivocal commitment to the principle of information, to which Kenya subscribes. However,  Mr President, we face diificulties in the expansion of our rural newspapers and in the development and  maintenance of the required infrastructure, as well as the uaining of professional communicators. Because of  this, we endorse the envisaged activities related to the expansion of information and communication facilities,  as well as those conceming the training of professional communicators.
3.16 Mr President, Kenya wholly supports the measures proposed by the Director-General for the General  Information Programme (PGI). We note that these measures cari be achieved if concerted efforts are made by  the PG1 secretariat to reach ail members, especially those in developing countries. We support the proposed  resolutions in this domain. We wish to request the Director-General to take note of the low status of  information organizations (libraries, archives and documentation centres) in most African countries; and urge  him to consider increased assistance in the areas of education and training of information professionals and the  irnprovement of library services, particularly those in schools and those serving rural communities. Kenya is  interested in the establishment and development of rural libraries, particularly in the arid and semi-arid areas,  to support national literacy campaigns, and would greatly appreciate the support of UNESCO and other well-  wishers.
3.17 The production of a national bibliography is essential if a country is to have a mastery of its literary  output. Kenya has established a national bibliographie agency, but due to lack of equipment, it has proved  impossible to keep up with its publications. Mr President, UNESCO has been very supportive of this project. A
5  project proposal for provision of micro-computers was approved some years back, but due to financial  constraints affecting the Organization, the equipment has not been received.
3.18 The need to preserve the recorded memory of mankind is a headache, especially for the developing  countries. This is why we wish to express our interest in and support for the proposed ‘Memory of the World  programme.
3.19 Mr President, the Kenyan Govemment is fully committed to the preservation and utilization of  recorded information for furthering socio-economic development. TO this end, the government has established  the National Archives and National Documentation Services. We have enjoyed very good support in this from  UNESCO, and are in the process of implementing a UNESCO-assisted pilot project on archival networking.  We are also grateful for the assistance in the retrieval of migrated archives,
3.20 The use of information technology to facilitate easy and rapid access to information is critical to the  sustainment of national development. Kenya appreciates and supports the activities proposed under the  informatics programmes. We appreciate the proposal to introduce information studies to the Young, especially  women. Kenya lauds the Director-General on the introduction of INFORMAFRICA and the proposed  programme to make training more generally available to educators, software production specialist and  maintenance and management staff in academic institutions, who Will play an important catalytic role in the  development of informatics.
3.21 Mr President, a few years ago, purely technological institutions emerged in the world. The philosophy  then was that a scientist did not need to study social or human sciences. Experience has siuce revealed that the  two.disciplines are indispensable in human as well as societal development. It is within this context that Kenya  wishes to record its support for the activities envisaged in Major Programme Area V: Social and human  sciences. Kenya has expanded its univers@ education programme substantially during the past decade. Our  objective has been to develop the capacities needed for rapid economic, social, scient& and technological  development through the national universities.
3.22 UNESCO’s contribution to peace and human rights, democracy and the elimination of all forms of  discrimination constitutes a very important programme. Kenya supports the effort by the Director-General in  enabling Member States to develop teaching materials on international education.
3.23 At the international level, Mr President, Kenya has always been guided by the policy of good  ncighbourliness, international understanding, co-operation and peace. We believe in peace and in the equality  of a11 men; and we consider all forms of discrimination and violation of human rights to constitute a threat to  international peace and understanding. Kenya appreciates the work of UNESCO on conflict seulement and, in  particular, the analysis of the causes of conflict and violence, We look forward to the realization of effective  methods to prevent a11 forms of conflict, which should include appropriate warning indicators.
3.24 Finally, Mr President, 1 wish to acknowledge the good work which the Director-General has done in  managing the Organization since his election. My delegation endorses the nomination of Mr Federico Mayor  for a second term of office. In this connection, he cari Count on the full support of the Govemment of the  Republic of Kenya. Thank you.
(4.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Kenya pour cet important discours. Mesdames et Messieurs, je  voudrais vous rappeler à tous qu’il y a ici à la tribune un voyant rouge qui s’allume pour indiquer aux orateurs  qu’ils ont épuisé leur temps de parole fixé à 12 minutes. Je vous remercie de bien vouloir en tenir compte.
(4.2) La parole est maintenant à S. Ext. M. Mohammed Reza Hachemi Golpayegani, ministre de la culture et  de l’enseignement supérieur et chef de la délégation de la République islamique d’Iran.
5.1 Mr GOLPAYEGANI (Islamic Republic of Iran):  In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate.
5.2 Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished ministers, heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I should like to  congratulate you, Mr President, on being elected to preside over this very important session of the General  Conference. 1 am confident that the Conference Will benefit from your w& range of experience in this House. 1  am also pleased to welcome the new Member States which have joined UNESCO since the twenty-sixth  session, and thus promoted its universality.
5.3 We have commenced this twenty-seventh session of the General Conference at a time when the  turbulent aftermath of the Cold War is still developing and when reforms in the United Nations system are on  the agenda every day. Just two years ago, here, it was expected that with the fall of the Berlin Wall, disputes,  conflicts, and polarizations would drastically decline, that we would live in a world with far fewer hostilities.  But today, should the fundamental causes of quarrels and conflicts not be faced in a truth-seeking and just  manner? Should we not doubt that tensions and conflicts Will continue to exist, if only in some other form? In  other words, justice, and nothing but justice cari lead to a lasting peace.
5.4 It is truc that the imposed bipolar system no longer exists. But the new world order, with the desire to  monopolize tlie world, even by dominating its economic and political partners, cannot be believed to lead  humanity to a bright horizon.
5.5 The devastating world problems tend to become chronic. Illiteracy, hunger, poverty, disease,  environmental degradation, regional and ethnical conflicts have continued to develop. Were the new world  order to be based upon social justice and human values, it would have reduced the aforementioned problems.  But does the so-called new world order mean anything to hundreds of millions of hungry people? Or does it  seriously add to the social, political and economic problems of tbe deprived and oppressed nations?
5.6 While trade imbalances strangle the economy of the developing countries, billions of dollars are spent  in the name of peace-keeping in convulsed areas. But is not this investment made mainly to secure trade and  the so-called strategic interests of some economically privileged communities of the world?
5.7 Another bitter reality of our time, Mr President, is the more frequent use of double standards and  selective reactions to regional crises. Let me just name the current crisis in the Balkans as a specific instance in  which the international community seems to be just beating about the bush. This practice unfortunately leads  the Member States of différent international forums to lose their confidence in the credibility of the respective  organs.
5.8 Mr President, dear colleagues, on the eve of its fïftieth anniversary, UNESCO is shouldering a great  ethical mission. Generally speaking, the end of the power struggle for hegemony between East and West paved  the way for UNESCO to undertake this vital mission. But this mission is addressing a very imbalanced world  with extremely diverse cconomic, social, and political situations. This diversity is mainly due to the extremely  wide range of capabilities of different countries in education, science, culture, and communication - that is, in  the fields of competence of UNESCO.
5.9 The ever-widening gap bctwcen the industrial and the developing countries, and the economic and  political division of the world into North and Sou& into those who tbrive and those who are deprived, is  naturally reflected, here and there, by disputes, conflicts and crises. Therefore the design and implementation  of UNESCO’s programmes cannot be undertaken without carefully taking into account this unfortunate  disparity which is believed to be mainly due to the lack of technological growth in the developing countries.  Accepting that leads us to recognize UNESCO’s role in transferring knowledge and technology and in  developing human potential and resources as the tore of its ethical mission.
5.10 And this is how UNESCO cari play its unique role in peace-building and international understanding -  a peace whose defences are to be built in the minds and hearts of men and women, a just peace essentially  different from what is imposed by force. After ail, the tree of force will never produce the fruit of peace.
5.11 In this context, Mr President, it is widely helieved that human dignity is manifested in conformity  between words and deeds. Today it is expected of UNESCO that it be the propagator of moral values and the  provider of the ever-increasing needs of the psychological calm and social stability of humankind. It is also  expected of UNESCO that it pay serious attention to cultural liberty and take special functional measures to  prevent moral degradation which is the main cause of the spread of deadly diseases, the breakdown of family  unity and the dismption of social integrity.
5.12 As a result, we believe that UNESCO should increase the capacity of its plans and activities to deal  with major world issues. After ah, UNESCO does net lack the right vision to identify world problems  correcdy. It only needs to be well-equipped to undertake its eth&d mission. The intellecttml capacity of the  Organization, thanks to the Director-GeneraI’s efforts, has been strengthened through the establishment of the  International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century and the World Commission on Culture  and Development, which are promising to bring new dynamism to the Organization These consultative aids  are expected to reflect and contribute substantially to the preparation of the next Medium-Term Plan, where  scient& and cultural co-operation and the transfer and sharing of knowledge, with special consideration paid  to ail the different cultural characteristics, deserve to be given privileged status.
5.13 As for representation in the Executive Board and any intersessional mechanism that may be devised,  ways and means should be sought to guarantee the participation of ail Member States of UNESCO in the work  of the Executive Board. In general, the Board, other intergovernmental and international bodies of UNESCO  and its Secretariat should mirror our diverse world.
5.14 Mr President, the commissions of the Conference, during the coming days, are to examine the  activities to be undertaken by UNESCO to promote the combat against illiteracy, the generalization of  education, the status of women, the protection of the environment, the development of communication, the  safeguarding of the cultural heritage and, last but not least, the transfer and sharing of knowledge. These are  all our common concems, and we believe that an interdisciplinary approach in implementing these  programmes would naturally lead to promoting human and sustainable development and a true culture of peace.
5.15 The inclusion of peace, human rights, democracy and the elimination of all forms of discrimination,  together with social and human sciences, in the framework of one major programme area, is quite logical and  strengthens UNESCO’s ability in undertaking its ethical mission. We hope that this programme, with  comprehensive interdisciplinary consideration of complex problems such as population control, environmental  protection, human development, safeguarding of cultural identities and facing moral crises, Will corne up with  solutions for indigenous sustainable development based on intrinsic human values and national culturel  identities. In other words, that a new vision in social and human sciences Will be introduced.
5.16 FinaIly, 1 take this opportunity to express my appreciation of the initiatives of the Diiector-General and  also express my best wishes, at the outset of the re-election process, for the continuation of such undertakings.  Lastly, Mr President, may 1 wish you and the Conference every success, and thank you all for your attention.
(6) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie de chef de la délégation de la République islamique d’Iran et lui sais gré d’avoir respecté le  temps imparti. J’invite maintenant S. Ext. M. Jorge Arrate MacNiven, ministre de l’éducation et chef de la  délégation du Chili, à prendre la parole.
(7.1) M. ARRATE MACNIVBN (Chili) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs. Permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président,  de vous féliciter, au nom du gouvernement chilien et de la délégation du Chili à la vingt-septième session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, pour votre élection à la présidence de cette session. Je tiens également à  féliciter les autres membres du Bureau. Je suis convaincu que, sous votre autorité, les travaux de la présente  session de la Conférence générale seront couronnés de succès. Je souhaite vous assurer sans plus attendre de la  volonté sans réserve de la délégation chilienne de coopérer avec vous et avec les autres délégations participantes.  Nous poursuivons tous le même objectif - assurer la réussite de cette réunion dont il est inutile de souligner  l’importance pour l’avenir de nos pays car les résolutions qui y seront adoptées pourront ouvrir des voies nouvelles  de coopération et de développement dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. Ce sont des
121    secteurs qui, dans le monde d’aujourd’hui, constituent la base de toute transformation fructueuse de la société  humaine.
(7.2) Avec la fin de la guerre froide et l’espoir affermi de voir s’instaurer un nouvel ordre international plus  juste, multipolaire et démocratique, la communauté des nations envisage l’avenir avec un optimisme qui n’est  cependant pas exempt de graves préoccupations. Cet optimisme a de solides raisons d’être : dans de nombreuses  régions de la planète, le renforcement de la démocratie, le développement de la participation sociale et, en  particulier, le respect des droits de l’homme ont marqué des progrès. Il convient notamment de souligner  l’émergence de conceptions nouvelles qui reconnaissent le droit au développement parmi les droits de la personne  et de toutes les nations. Dans cette perspective, la liberté et la capacité de créer et d’innover soutiennent et  mobilisent les énergies les plus précieuses et les plus nobles espoirs d’amélioration de la condition humaine.
(7.3) Le chemin à parcourir est toutefois semé d’embûches, comme en témoignent des événements intervenus  récemment sur divers continents. Des maux anciens et redoutes par toute lhumanité semblent renaître en dépit  des efforts déployés collectivement pour les empêcher de resurgir et pour tirer parti des leçons douloureuses de  l’histoire. Les manifestations de nationalisme exacerbé, de racisme, de xénophobie et d’intolérance sont à cet  égard particulièrement inquiétantes. Malgré le développement des droits de l’homme et le prix croissant qui leur  est incontestablement attaché dans le monde entier, on trouve encore dans nos sociétés des mouvements  destructeurs qui encouragent la violence et incitent à la haine. Ils sont alimentés par les cassures économiques et  sociales qui engendrent la marginalisation de vastes secteurs de la société, par l’état de dépendance injustifié où  se trouvent de grandes masses de population et par la discrimination dont est injustement victime une grande  partie de l’humanité. De la même façon, le tissu culturel de nos sociétés reflète une recrudescence de l’intolérance  qui conduit fatalement à la persécution, à l’anathème et, en fin de compte, à la confrontation violente ou à la  guerre.
(7.4) La tolérance, c’est le respect de l’autre dans sa différence. L’intolérance au contraire, c’est la négation de  la différence, la recherche absolue de l’uniformité. Avec elle disparaissent toute autonomie et toute diversité. Elle  nous éloigne du doute, qui est essentiel pour la création et la diffusion du savoir, et qui permet de remettre la  réalité en question pour découvrir de nouveaux mondes. Elle nous fait abandonner aussi toute originalité car  celle-ci ne saurait s’accommoder du modèle étroit qui, sous son emprise, domine l’image du monde en y plaquant  des certitudes réductrices et étriquées. Le monde d’aujourd’hui est confronté à une accélération de l’évolution  technologique, scientifique et culturelle. Tout se passe comme si nous étions incapables de saisir les occasions et  de réduire les tensions liées à ce processus. Nos sociétés doivent assumer pleinement cette universalisation qui  s’opère aujourd’hui et qui s’étend également au domaine culturel. Pour y parvenir en préservant notre identité  nationale et en proposant aux jeunes des valeurs, des idéaux et des principes sur lesquels s’appuyer, il faut se  pencher très attentivement sur les grandes questions culturelles. Il faut prendre la responsabilité d’offrir aux  générations nouvelles une base éthique plus que jamais indispensable dans un monde en mutation rapide, où plus  rien n’est sûr. C’est dès I’enfance qu’on apprend à respecter les valeurs humanistes. Pour acquérir cette forme de  respect, il faut avant tout être soi-même respecté et grandir à l’abri de craintes, menaces et violences qui n’ont pas  lieu d’être. Seule une société capable de concilier les droits de tous avec la liberté peut exiger le respect et la  solidarité.
(7.5) C’est pourquoi l’UNE!SCO a un rôle de plus en plus important à jouer, car elle est un lieu de réflexion,  de recherche et de dialogue ; elle est l’espace le plus propice au renforcement de la paix dans l’esprit des êtres  humains. Appelée à être la conscience de l’humanité, elle a actuellement une mission éthique à accomplir.
(7.6) Monsieur le Président, le Chili continue aujourd’hui avec l’aide de tous ses nationaux et par-delà les  divergences politiques ou religieuses à consolider sa démocratie. Le peuple chilien participera prochainement à  des élections présidentielles et législatives par lesquelles il désignera ses gouvernants de demain. Ce processus se  déroule dans un climat de paix et de tranquillité, de grande maturité civique et de concertation politique entre les  divers acteurs de la vie publique. Uni autour des mêmes idéaux de démocratie participative, de respect des droits  de l’homme et de justice sociale, le peuple chilien envisage I’avenir avec optimisme ; il est tout disposé à coopérer  étroitement avec les autres peuples d’Amérique latine et des Caraïbes, et du reste du monde en vue de la paix et  du progrès économique et social. Nous sommes convaincus que l’enracinement de régimes démocratiques dans les  sociétés en général et dans celles d’Amérique latine en particulier suppose la mise en place d’une véritable culture  démocratique qui leur assure l’adhésion consciente et éclairée de toute la population. Cette culture démocratique  doit se traduire par la reconnaissance et l’application de valeurs de civisme, de solidarité et de responsabilité par  les gouvernants comme par les gouvernés.
(7.7) Le gouvernement de mon pays se félicite de la reconnaissance du “droit au développement” par la  Conférence des Nations Unies sur les droits de l’homme tenue à Vienne cette année, et demande instamment au  Secrétariat de l’UNE!SCO de faire une place au développement humain dans la conception et la mise en oeuvre  des divers programmes relevant de la compétence de l’Organisation.
(7.8) A l’échelon régional, la capitale de mon pays a accueilli du 8 au 11 juin dernier la cinquième Réunion  du Comité régional intergouvernemental du Projet majeur dans le domaine de l’éducation en Amérique latine et  dans les Caraïbes (PROMEDLAC V) que j’ai eu l’honneur de présider. A cette occasion, les représentants des  Etats membres ont examiné les progrès accomplis et les difficultés rencontrées pendant l’exercice 1991-1992 dans  la réalisation des objectifs du projet, ont analysé les éléments dont la région a besoin pour définir une stratégie  d’éducation afin de progresser vers une nouvelle étape de développement dans ce domaine, et ont examiné les
5  orientations et priorités de la coopération régionale et internationale en la matière. A l’issue des travaux, les  ministres ont approuvé la Déclaration de Santiago où il est souligné notamment qü’il convient que nos pays  consacrent davantage de ressources à l’éducation et en assurent une meilleure utilisation dans le cadre d’un  engagement qui doit être pris par l’ensemble de la société et être considéré comme une condition indispensable à  la réalisation des transformations requises par nos différents systèmes éducatifs”.
(7.9) Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement chilien exprime son soutien à la Commission mondiale de la  culture et du développement présidée par une éminente personnalité latino-américaine, M. Javier Pérez de  Cuéllar, et lui adresse tous ses voeux de réussite dans ses travaux. Nous pensons que le développement, comme la  paix et la démocratie, ne peut se réduire à la seule dimension économique ; en effet la culture en est la dimension  première et la finalité ultime. Le rapport que la Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement devra  présenter en 1995 à la Conférence générale fera certainement date non seulement dans l’action de l’UNESCO mais  aussi dans celle des autres organismes des Nations Unies. L’UNESCO a une mission particulièrement importante  à remplir dans le domaine de la culture. Son action doit viser à renforcer la contribution que le dialogue  interculturel peut apporter à la paix, et à définir, partout où cela est possible, les conditions d’un véritable  pluralisme culturel. C’est parce qu’elles considèrent que les conceptions culturelles et le développement même de  la culture conditionnent les améliorations nécessaires au plein épanouissement de l’être humain que des régions  comme l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes ont créé un Forum des ministres de la culture qui tiendra sa sixième  rencontre au Chili, du 24 au 2U novembre prochain.
(7.10) La Conférence générale devra se prononcer à sa présente session sur I’opportunité de créer un  programme international de sciences sociales intitulé “Gestion des transformations sociales”, dont le sigle anglais  est “MOST” ; ce programme a pour objet d’amorcer, dans le domaine des sciences sociales, des recherches  internationales comparées qui facilitent l’élaboration de politiques et la prise des décisions. Le gouvernement  chilien accorde une importance particulière à ce programme ainsi qu’à la contribution que l’UNESCO apportera à  la préparation du Sommet mondial pour le développement social qui aura lieu à Copenhague en 1995 ; il prend  note avec satisfaction de l’intention du Directeur général de mettre l’accent, dans les domaines relevant de la  compétence de l’Organisation, sur l’élaboration de stratégies tendant à promouvoir un développement humain  durable.
(7.11) Avant de conclure, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais formuler au nom de mon gouvernement quelques  observations de caractère général sur le Projet de progmmme et de budget soumis par le Directeur général à  l’approbation de la Conférence. Mon pays souscrit au contenu de ce document et aux priorités qui y sont énoncées.  Il pense que le Secrétariat a accompli un effort louable de concentration des programmes dont le Chili se félicite.  Il estime toutefois qu’il s’agit seulement de l’amorce d’une politique durable de concentration des activités dans les  domaines qui relèvent de la compétence de l’UNESCO et que cet effort doit se poursuivre et s’accentuer à l’avenir.
(7.12) Le gouvernement chilien se félicite des plans de décentralisation mis en oeuvre par le Secrétariat, en  application des résolutions de la Conférence générale et du Conseil exécutif. Ce processus devrait être mené à  bien de manière progressive, compte tenu de la nécessité d’adapter et de moderniser graduellement quelques  structures et pratiques administratives anciennes de l’Organisation. 11 convient de considérer la décentralisation  comme un outil de travail entre les mains du Secrétariat destiné à en améliorer l’efficacité, et non pas comme une  fin en soi.
(7.13) Mon pays appuie les efforts que le Directeur général déploie pour améliorer l’efficacité administrative,  pour adapter le nombre et la qualité des fonctionnaires aux besoins de l’UNESCO et à sa situation budgétaire, et  pour appliquer une discipline budgétaire très stricte et des normes modernes d’administration.
(7.14) Enfin, le gouvernement chilien tient à exprimer sa satisfaction pour l’oeuvre accomplie par le Directeur  général, et espère que cette vingt-septième session de la Conférence générale permettra d’élargir les ententes et de  trouver de nouveaux mécanismes de resserrement de la coopération internationale ; il sera alors possible de faire  avancer avec plus de force encore des idées et des activités de portée universelle qui améliorent la coexistence  entre nous tous, l’enrichissent et la rendent plus féconde, contribuant ainsi à procurer plus de dignité et de  bonheur à chaque pays et à chacun de ses ressortissants. Je vous remercie.
(8) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Chili pour cette importante allocution et je donne maintenant la  parole à S. Ext. M. Nahas Angula, ministre de l’éducation et de la culture et chef de la délégation de la Namibie.
9.1 Mr ANGULA (Namibia):  Mr President, at the very outset, 1 would like to say how happy we are in the delegation of Namibia to  see that a son of Yemen is guiding the proceedings of our Conference. Your political acumen, your skills and  indeed your experience in the affairs of our Organization are guarantees that we shall achieve our goals. May 1
123    also take this opportunity to welcome the new members who have just joined the UNESCO family. 1 would like  to assure them that Namibia is ready to work together with them and others in this Organization in order to  achieve our purpose and goals.
9.2 This session of the General Conference is taking place at a momentous time. Seven years from now,  we shah be entering the twenty-first century. As we move towards the turn of this Century, we need to pause  and reflect: what does the future hold for mankind? In my view UNESCO - an Organization founded for the  purpose of constructing the defences of peace in the minds of women and men - is well placed to lead in this  self-reflection.
9.3 Namibia is situated in Africa. Africa bas suffered a lot during the past centuries: you may remember  the slave-trade; colonial occupation; apartheid and racial discrimination; unfair trade practices and economic  exploitation; and at present, encroaching marginalization. UNESCO is to be commended for recognizing the  special plight of Africa. Among UNESCO’s priority target groups, the Africa region has been assigned focused  attention. As we enter the twenty-first Century, Africa needs a new deal in world affairs.
9.4 Namibia is just about four years old. It emerged as a democracy out of the ashes of apartheid, colonial  occupation and racial discrimination. The shadow of apartheid continues to loom in ail our spheres of life. Its  legacies continue to haunt us in education, in culture and in the social domain. The great challenge facing our  uew democracy is the eradication of the effects, impacts and legacies of racial discrimination and apartheid.
9.5 Mr President, Namibia’s democracy is founded on the principles of justice, equity, freedom, national  reconciliation and peace. These are the foundations on which the people of Namibia are building their future  and their destiny. This means, therefore, that we have to strike out in a new direction. We have to start afresh  with a new mission. It is against this background that in the spheres of education, culture and training, the  Government and the people of Namibia have defined four goals to direct the reform, renewal and the  development efforts. These are: equity in access and equal opportunity in education; internal efficiency of the  education system; pedagogical effectiveness; and democratic participation.
9.4 Prior to independence, educational services in our courut-y were neither equitable among, nor  accessible to, all the citizens. Black Namibians had limited access to schooling. Rural black communities were  less provided for and where schools existed they were of inferior quality. Now the Namibian Constitution  establishes that ‘ah persons shah have the right to education’. The challenge now is to translate this  constitutional requirement into reality against the background of widespread inequities.
9.7 Due to differential provisioning of schools in the past, black schools were inefficient and ineffective.  These schools were characterized by high drop-out rates; high repetition rates; and high failure rates. On the  average it took a black Child eight to nine years to complete seven years of primary education; but the majority  generally dropped out before they had completed primary education. The education system continues to suffer  from these historical legacies. Our task now is to bring about a certain measure of efficiency in the system.
9.8 Teacher education in pre-independent Namibia was ill- organized; ill-coordinated and non-uniform.  According to the logic of apartheid, teachers were trained only to operate in schools belonging to their tribal or  racial groups. As a result, schools for blacks were staffed with ill-trained or unqualified teachers. The teaching  methodologies encouraged rote learning. Underachievement and failure rates were widespread throughout the  black schools. The goal of the govemment is to reverse this wasteful trend and to promote effective pedagogy.
9.9 Democratic participation by all the stake-holders in education is a goal we cherish. We believe that  education is partnership between the govemment and other stake-holders. Teachers’ unions, students’  organizations, and students’ representative councils are encouraged and promoted. Communities are being  mobilized to take keen interest in their scl~ools. We believe that education is too important to be left to the  goveinment alone!
9.10 New directions are also being opened up in the sphere of culture and cultural promotion. In the pas&  culture was used by apartheid to divide the people. We believe that culture must be shared among all our  people. Culture should promote unity and diversity. We fully agree with the Director-General’s statement in his  Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995 mat: ‘As tensions and conflicts have a growing  tendency to be cultural in origin, a genuine intercultural dialogue is becoming an urgent necessity. The  acknowledgement and affirmation of identities should have as its corollary the rejection of ail forms of  discrimination, and the establishment of true pluralism’.
9.11 Since independence, the Government of the Republic of Namibia has been engaged in massive  programmes of educational reform, ranging from institutional rationalization and development to the  integration of schools. The major programme areas include the following: policy planning and development;  language reform; development of basic education (including special education); reform of teacher education;  development of adult, non-formal and continuing education; reform of examination and assessment procedures;
5  development of youth vocational and technical education; establishment and development of the University of  Namibia and the National Polytechnic; and cultural development and promotion.
9.12 POlicy planning and development in the fields of education, culture and training are aimed at defining  broad goals and directions. These are to be found in the policy document, ‘Towards education for ail: A  development brief for education, culture and training’ (1993). Work is now under way to translate the policy  positions into a medium-term plan for education, culture and training which will identify priority areas and  their cost implications. On the basis of this plan, the govermnent intends to cal1 a conference next year with a  view to sharing with donors the challenges of educational reform and development in Narnibia and in the hope  of attracting resources.
9.13 The offcial language of Namibia is English. English is however not a natural language in Namibia;  thus, schools have to play a central role in the popularization of the officiai language. A language policy has  evolved which requires that English Will be a medium of instruction in ail govemment schoois from the fourth  year of schooling and onward. The policy is also aimed at promoting student and teacher mobility in the  country. The new language policy has implications for teacher education, curriculum development and  instructional mater& design and other aspects of education.
9.14 The Constitution of Namibia requires that ‘children shah not be allowed to leave school until they have  completed their primai-y education or have attained the age of 16 years’. In order to respond to this  constitutional requirement, the govemment has embarked on a programme of basic education development and  reform. Basic education in Namibii is defined as grades one to ten, that is, ten years of schooling. The basic  education reform and development initiative consists of curriculum renewal, syllabus development,  instructional materials development and design, pre-school education, and education for children with special  needs. A project to improve rural school facilities bas also been initiated with community participation.
9.is Due to apartheid policies of the past the adult population is ill-educated. Sixty per cent of our adults  cannot read or Write. Thus a parallel programme of basic adult education is being developed. This programme  includes literacy education, distance education, continuing education and youth skills development.
9.16 Teachers are the catalyst to learning. Thus, teacher education is an important element to effective  teaching. A teacher education reform initiative is currently under way. The reform has two goals: the first is  to develop a uniform pre-service education programme for the whole country. The second goal is to modularize  pre-service teacher education for in-service teacher education. The programme aims also at strengthening and  developing teacher-training colleges of education and teacher centres. Pedagogy emphasizes Child-centred  education, problem solving and interaction leaming.
9.17 Curriculum reform is accompanied by the development of new examination and assessment  procedures. Our examination procedures Will be on the principle of positive achievement. The goal is to  promote leaming with understanding, problem-solving skills and investigative abilities in the learners.
9.18 Vocational and technical education is an area of great concem to the Government of Namibia. Youth  unemployment is a serious social problem. Vocational and technical education is aimed at providing survival  skills to the youth.
9.19 In terms of human resources development, the University of Namibia and the Namibia Polytechnic are  being developed as tertiary institutions. These institutions Will be centres of education, research and training.  They Will provide Namibia with higher-level human resources.
9.20 Finally, a variety of initiatives are being undertaken in the cultural sector. The goal is to strengthen  national cultural institutions, promote cultural expression and enhance the diffusion of culture in the nation.
9.21 Mr President, the cost of carrying out the reform agenda is very high. Currently 25 per cent of the  national budget is devoted to education, culture and training. This is about 8 per cent of the GDP: the  projection for the next year is that the government Will have to allocate about 28 per cent of the national budget  to this sector. This is necessary because to reduce the vast inequities in educational provisioning requires  additional resources as well as redirection of resources to disadvantaged areas and groups. Rediiection or  rationalization of resources is only possible when the old programme is completely phased out. The phasing out  of the old curriculum cari only happen when new curricula are in place. This means that we bave to invest  massively in the reform and development process. New additional resources are thus needed to help US to  overcome our present challenges.
9.22 We are grateful to many development partners who have already joined us in our education reform and  development programme. UNESCO is among these development partners. Through the Participation  Programme, UNESCO has assisted with the rehabilitation of tbe Ruacana Secondary and Skills Development  Centre, where many of the former refugee children were enrolled. Other contributions from UNESCO have  gone into educational leadership training, community-based classroom construction project; pre-vocational
125    education and the establishment of the Namibia Science Teachers Association. Currently, UNESCO is assisting  the National Institute of Education Development (NIED) to develop modules of teacher in-service education.
9.23 During the deliberations in the various commissions, my delegation will expand on specific activities  Namibia would lie to carry out in collaboration with UNESCO. Suffice it to state here that Namibia is in the  midst of a major undertaking aimed at the reconstruction of the whole education system. We believe therefore,  that targeted input through various UNESCO Windows, such as Priority: Africa, funds-in-trust, the  Participation Programme and others are required to help Namibian education to emerge out of the shadow of  apartheid. UNESCO could be a catalyst and co-ordinator in this regard.
9.24 Mr President, Namibia is located in the south-west corner of Africa. It is sandwiched between two  giants, South Africa and Angola. We are grateful to UNESCO that under Major Programme Area V: Social  and human sciences, a special project, ‘Contribution to the construction of a democratic, non-racial, apartheid-  free society in South Africa’, Will help that country to transform itself into an education system catering for the  needs of all the people of South Africa. We urge UNESCO to implement this project with vigour and  determination. South Africa must be assisted to overcome its present problems. This Will help the whole  subregion to move towards a peaceful development.
9.25 Angola also needs special attention in the field of educational reconstruction. In the Okavango region  of Namibia a substantial portion of the school population is made up of children from Angola. When peace is  achieved in Angola, these children may wish to go back to Angola. UNESCO may wish to devise a special  programme for the reconstruction of Angolan education in the rural areas.
9.26 Namibia salutes the people of Palestine and Israel for working towards mutual accommodation. We  would like to urge the international community to assist the people of Palestine in consolidating peace and in  building a strong foundation of their homeland.
9.27 As we move towards the turn of the Century, 1 join the Director-General in echoing the words with  which he concludes his Introduction to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995: ‘With this renewed  confidence, we - the Member States and the Secretariat - cari thus together take up the challenge of the future:  let us take hope as our guiding star, the hope we must found on human beings’ ability to shape their destiny’.  Thank you, Mr President.
(10) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la Namibie pour cette importante allocution. La parole est  maintenant i S. Ext. M. Murilio de Avellar Hingel, ministre d’Etat de l’éducation et du sport et chef de la  délégation du Brésil.
11.1 M. AVELLAR HINGEL (Brésil) :  (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la delegation)  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous presenter mes félicitations les plus cordiales pour votre  élection a la présidence de la Conférence generale. Je suis persuadé que les travaux de notre assemblee  atteindront pleinement leurs objectifs, grâce a votre compétence et à votre habileté dans la conduite des débats  et la recherche constante du consensus.
11.2 Nous sommes réunis a un moment de l’histoire qui offre à notre Organisation l’opportunité singuliere  de réaffmer les objectifs élevés qui ont inspiré sa création. En effet, des ombres que nous avions cru disparues,  telles que l’intolérance, les guerres fratricides, le racisme, la xénophobie et la persistance de maux tels que la  misère et l’ignorance, obscurcissent a nouveau l’horizon de l’humanité.
11.3 J’ose dire que l’efficacité du système des Nations Unies, et de l’UNBSC0 en particulier, dépendra  considérablement de leur capacité de répondre à ces anciens et nouveaux défis. Dune façon génerale, la  réforme des instances internationales de décision, visant à les rendre plus démocratiques et plus équitables, est  un point incontournable de l’ordre du jour de notre temps. Un esprit de démocratisation et de plus ample  ouverture devra orienter le processus de réforme du système des Nations Unies, auquel mon pays attribue une  grande importance.
11.4 Dans ce processus, l’UNESCO - la première institution du système des Nations Unies a entreprendre  un sérieux effort d’autocritique et de renouvellement - jouera un rôle prépondérant. Comme nous le savons,  penseurs, philosophes et scientifiques ont toujours souligné, au cours de l’histoire, la nécessité d’ajuster le
126    rythme d’évolution des règles du droit au mouvement rapide des transformations sociales et politiques. La  vitesse de ces transformations, fruit des conquêtes de l’intelligence et de la multiplication des contacts entre les  divers peuples, impose une évolution, sur le plan des idées, qui permette une perception intellectuelle adéquate  des problèmes de l’heure.
11.5 Mais la rapidité des transformations sociales et politiques n’est pas le seul défi. Un autre, plus aigu, se  pose a nous. A la veille du nouveau siècle, nous constatons un cruel paradoxe : alors qu’une parcelle de  l’humanité s’achemine vers une structure de production et un profil de vie intensifs en matière de  connaissances, une grande partie de la population de la terre reste prisonniere des ténèbres de l’analphabétisme.  La vie intellectuelle et spirituelle de millions d’êtres humains est toujours soumise aux fléaux de l’ignorance, de  la misère, de la faim. Nous perdons à chaque génération des millions de citoyens en puissance, a la recherche  de leur dignité d’homme : des penseurs, des scientifiques, des écrivains, des artistes, des médecins et des  enseignants. Si nous pouvions évaluer l’ampleur de ce patrimoine humain gaspillé à tout jamais, nous ferions  davantage pour éviter cette catastrophe silencieuse qu’est la perpétuation de l’analphabétisme et de l‘ignorance.
11.6 L’UNESCO, dans l’exercice de son mandat, a déjà fait des efforts considérables pour alerter la  communauté des nations sur cette triste perspective. II faut cependant insister. Il faut dénoncer la mauvaise  distribution des fruits des progrès scientifiques et technologiques et les obstacles mis à la libre circulation des  connaissances. Il faut prendre conscience de ce que l’esprit humain, libéré de la faim, de la misère, de la  maladie et de l’ignorance, sera une terre fertile pour les semences de la paix. En somme, la défense de la paix  est indissociable de la lutte pour un développement durable, endogène, intégré et centré sur la personne  humaine. 11 incombe à l’UNESCO de parachever et de défendre cette conception du développement, la seule  susceptible de permettre le depassement du paradoxe pervers d’une cohabitation de l’ère de l’information et de la  technologie avec l’ignorance et la misère.
11.7 C’est dans ce sens que l’éradication de l’analphabétisme et l’intensification de l’éducation de base pour  tous constituent, comme le souligne le Directeur général, une mission prioritaire pour l’UNESCO. En ma  qualité de Ministre de l’éducation et du sport du Brésil, je vous affirme que ce sont là des priorités  fondamentales dans notre pays. C’est pourquoi le Brésil coparraine, avec enthousiasme, le projet de résolution  du gouvernement indien invitant le Directeur général a établir, dans le cadre du Programme et budget de  l’Organisation, un autre groupe-cible axé en priorité spéciale sur les pays les plus peuplés dont les taux  d’analphabétisme sont les plus élevés.
11.8 Monsieur le Président, le programme “Education pour tous” a retenu toute l’attention du gouvernement  brésilien. En juin dernier, j’ai eu l’honneur de lancer le Plan décennal d’éducation pour tous. Notre objectif  - très ambitieux - est de réduire radicalement l’analphabétisme dans les dix prochaines armées. Le Brésil a  participé activement aux travaux préparatoires du Sommet sur l’éducation pour tous des neuf pays en  développement les plus peuplés. Compte tenu de l’importance unique de cette initiative, le Président Itamar  Franco a l’intention de participer à cette réunion, dont nous attendons tous des résultats substantiels.
11.9 Je voudrais souligner maintenant l’importance du Programme national d’action globale en faveur de  l’enfant et de l’adolescent (PRONAICA), instrument gouvernemental tourné vers la garantie des droits  fondamentaux de l’enfant et de l’adolescent. L’accent y est mis sur la pédagogie d’une action multiforme  comportant des activités dans les domaines de l’éducation, de la sante, de l’assistance et de la promotion sociale,  CL sur l’intégration communautaire. Nous avons mis en route, avec ce programme, un processus éducatif dans  son sens le plus large. Outre la préparation des individus a l’exercice d’une activité productive, le gouvernement  brésilien est conscient de ce que l’éducation, au sens le plus large du terme, comprend la formation intégrale de  la personne humaine pour le plein exercice de la citoyenneté, dans un contexte de développement économique  et social. C’est dans cette perspective que l’éducation représente, de pair avec le développement, le fondement  du processus de la démocratie. Nous reconnaissons également que le processus éducatif exige la convergence,  au bénéfice de l’enfant, des actions de la famille, de la communauté et de l’école, ainsi que l’intégration de  services sociaux d’action globale.
11.10 Le Brésil est un pays pluriel qui a produit, du fait du syncrétisme culturel et du mélange ethnique, une  synthèse enrichissante. En tant que nation faisant indiscutablement partie intégrante, par ses racines, de la  communauté occidentale, nous constatons avec tristesse que, au sein de ces mêmes communautés européennes  dont les pays du Nouveau Monde sont issus, les manifestations xénophobes et les conflits ethniques exacerbés  resurgissent. C’est là une situation qui constitue une menace pour les nobles objectifs de l’UNESCO, et qui rend  encore plus opportune la célébration, en 1995, de l’Année internationale de la tolérance, qui devra permettre  une réflexion opportune sur l’importance de l’établissement de limites éthiques, volontairement acceptées, à la  compétition dans le domaine économique et politique.
11.11 Permettez-moi de signaler, à ce propos, que, pour qu’une politique de l’éducation soit viable et efficace,  les pouvoirs publics et la sociét6 civile doivent partager les responsabilités, dans un processus de  démocratisation irréversible et global. La aussi, l’UNESCO a un rôle important à jouer, en centralisant ses  activités, et en coopérant avec les commissions nationales, dont l’importance est judicieusement réitérée par le  Directeur général dans son introduction au document 27 C/5. Le Brésil a été le premier a établi sa commission  nationale - l’Institut brésilien pour l’éducation, la science et la culture. Pour le mettre à même de faire face aux  besoins actuels, le gouvernement brésilien procède actuellement à sa restructuration.
11.12 Monsieur le Président, je désire souligner l’appui du gouvernement brésilien au programme MOST,  qui représente une conception nouvelle d’un programme international en matière de sciences sociales, compte  tenu de sa juste intention de devenir un réseau international de centres académiques et de recherche.
11.13 C’est avec une satisfaction particulière que le Brésil note, en sa qualit de pays hôte de la Conférence  des Nations Unies sur l’environnement et le développement, l’élaboration du projet “Education et information  en matière d’environnement et de population pour le développement humain”. Sa conception est étroitement  liée aux recommandations de la Conférence de Rio de Janeiro, et nous mettons en elle de grands espoirs de  progrès dans la coopkration multilaterale.
11.14 Monsieur le Président, le Brésil considbre que l’UNESCO occupe une position de la plus haute  importance. Nous sommes disposés à contribuer au dbbat sur la rénovation du rôle de l’Organisation, dans un  esprit de collaboration, attentifs aux nouvelles exigences de la communauté mondiale. Dans ce sens, je félicite  le Directeur général de l’Organisation, M. Federico Mayor, de son Projet de programme et de budget pour  l’exercice 1994-1995, qui nous fournit une base solide pour les débats de cette session.
11.15 Monsieur le Président, les fondateurs de cette prestigieuse Organisation, inspirés par le désir de  reconstruire un ordre mondial fondé sur la coopération internationale pour la paix, ont confié à l’UNESCO un  rôle prépondérant dans le processus de consolidation de cette même paix, par le biais d’une défense  intransigeante des droits humains - surtout du droit à l’éducation et à l’information - ainsi que des libertés  fondamentales et de la démocratie. J’invite tous les éminents participants à cette Conférence générale a avoir  toujours présents à l’esprit les buts élevés qui ont présidé à la création de cette Organisation, et qui se révèlent si  actuels de nos jours. Tout effort de reflexion sur les nouvelles orientations a prendre pour redéfinir le système  des Nations Unies doit avoir pour point de départ la permanence et l’affirmation de ces idéaux élevés. Je vous  remercie.  (W Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Brésil pour cette importante allocution et j’invite S. I?x.  M. Armand Fabella, ministre de lëducation, de la culture et des sports et chef de la délégation des Philippines, à  prendre la parole.
13.1 Mr FABELLA (Philippines):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Philippine Delegation, 1 should like to offer  you, Mr Sayyad, our congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-seventh session of the  UNESCO General Conference. We are confident that under your able stewardship this Conference Will achieve  its goals and objectives.
13.2 We meet here in Paris at this General Conference session in a rapidly changing international  environment, one which the unprecedented heights of euphoria initially reached as a consequence of the end of  the Cold War in 1989 have now been replaced by the present rude awakening of ail of us to a totally different  reality. Fortunately, the United Nations system, and particularly UNESCO, is still very much alive, giving us an  opportunity to engage ourselves in the noble goals of establishing peace and security and ensuring a better  future for our children and their children’s children. Indeed, we have selected in timely fashion and well the  theme of this session - the culture of peace and development.
13.3 Mr President, permit me to start with my country’s peace programme. The Philippines is today  successfully establishing a culture of peace, fashioned in the vision of our President, Fidel V. Ramos, and  moulded with the political Will of a11 Filipinos, by undertaking reforms that address the root causes of armed  conflicts as identified by the people themselves, by working for a negotiated seulement at the conference table
5  of ail such groups and by establishing programmes for the reintegration of such groups into the mainstream of  society, starting with the general amnesty programme.
13.4 In support of UNESCO’s ‘Culture of Pence’ programme, the Philippines offers its peace processes as a  possible mode1 to countries like its neighbours and to some of our Latin American colleagues, particularly in a  situation calling for a series of steps towards reconciliation, rehabilitation and eventually the application of a  conflict-prevention programme. Hence, my delegation fully supports the action programme to promote a  culture of peace proposed by the Executive Board. We likewise fully support the decisions being recommended  to this General Conference on the application of 26 C/Resolution 16, conceming educational and cultural  institutions in the occupied Arab territories. Furthermore, in the spirit of Asia-Pacific support for the peace  process rehabilitation efforts in Cambodia, the Philippines is initiating a draft resolution on the establishment  and strengthening of communications in Cambodia.
13.5 Mr President, the major anchor of the Philippines’ new stability is its commitment to human rights and  democracy. At the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna last June, the Philippines made it clear that  it upholds, protects and respects human rights, being a signatory to and having ratified no less than
22 international instruments on the subject. The Philippines thus fully supports the UNESCO World Plan of  Action on Education for Human Rights and Democracy presented at the Vienna Conference and its basic  premise that education is the most powerful means of promoting human rights and democracy.
13.6 A tore issue of respect for human rights is the specific question of women’s rights. The Philippines  fully supports UNESCO’s actions in the preparation of the fourth United Nations World Conference on Women  to be held in Beijing in 1995 on the theme ‘Action for equality, development and peace’. We congratulate the  Director-General on setting up a consultative committee to monitor the preparations for the Beijing Conference  and we look forward to its early convening. We also urge the General Conference to consider positively our  proposal to organize at UNESCO Headquarters a high-level meeting of intergovemmental experts on  education, science, and technology, relating to the status of women, not later than six months before the Beijing  Conference.
13.7 The Philippines, 1 am proud to proclaim, is a mode1 for the advancement of women’s rights,  particularly in Asia. This is not just because women are a majority in the Philippines, but because we have a  long tradition of supporting the high status of women in all areas of Philippine culture and society. No door is  closed to Philippine women: they have access to all the professions and areas of human activity, including  military and police careers, and even the Presidency of our Republic. They comprise more than half of  secondary and higher education enrolments. In spite of this, we are conscious of our responsibilities to lend  support to all other women in the developing world who do not yet enjoy this privileged status. Women all over  the world today are victims of one of the most blatant forms of violation of human rights, that of sexual  exploitation, and we therefore invite the Director-General to reinforce UNESCO’s programme for a new  convention on the sexual exploitation of human beings.
13.8 Mr President, the twin goals of global excellence and human resource development are embodied in  the Philippine Development Plan for the next lïve years, stress being laid on education as the key to attainment  of these goals. We are very fortunate in having a relatively good education system, with a literacy rate of over
90percent in 1992 and a private school subsystem which accounts for more than one third of secondary  enrolments and four ftfths of tertiary enrolments, which enables the govemment to concentrate its own  resources on primary education. The Philippines remains strongly committed to the principles and objectives of  the World Declaration on Education for Al1 adopted at Jomtien and was one of the frrst to prepare a plan of  action which was presented to UNESCO’s Director-General in 1991 in Manila, as a result of which the persona1  commitment was obtained from Mr Mayor to provide technical assistance to the Philippines in preparing and  organizing a donors’ pledging conference in support, and we thank him very much for this.
13.9 We also support the efforts of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First  Century chaired by Jacques Delors, and the World Commission on Culture and Development under the  presidency of Mr Javier Pérez de Cuéllar. With regard to the latter, we are examining the possibility of holding  the Asia-Pacific meeting of the Commission in Manila in the early part of 1995.
13.10 We support the strengthening of the interdisciplinary project on ‘Young women and the family  environment’, with the focus on children caught up in and traumatized by situations of armed conflict, and on  the problems of street children. We recognize UNESCO’s responsiveness to this problem, specilïcally, in the  assistance provided to the community-based projects of Enfants et développement for street children in the  Philippines. We are presenting in this Conference two resolutions in relation to the Young Child and the family:
129    first, on strengthening the interdisciplinary project; and secondly, on the creation of a UNESCO museum  dedicated to the different forms of artistic expression by the children of the world.
13.11 Of major importance to us as well is the programme on ‘Education for the twenty-first Century’. For the  Philippines, the proficiency of teachers has been identified as a factor with the highest possible impact on the  quality of education. And we are fully aware of the signitïcance of this programme for which we urge  continuing support. We are also particularly interested in participating in the UNITWIN and UNESCO chairs  programmes.
13.12 Mr President, the Philippines welcomes the programme on ‘Science and technology for development’,  notably co-operation in basic and engineering sciences, which responds to basic weaknesses in the countries of  the developing world. Of particular significance to us is the cal1 in UNCED’s Agenda 21 for a thorough review  of school curricula. Following this call, the UNESCO-UNEP International Environment Education Programme  has evolved a regional strategy, and 1 am proud to announce that this programme has produced, among others,  prototypes for secondary schools and secondary school teachers in the Philippines, in co-operation with IIEP.
13.13 Mr President, the Rio Summit of 1992 has provoked much discussion on the problems of reconciling  economic development with the protection of the environment. We look forward to the very near future, when  some of our cultural and natural sites Will be inscribed on the World Heritage Li$t. We are conscious of the  responsibility that inscription on the list entails. In the conservation of our own national cultural monuments,  we wish to link our own efforts to the mainstream of international standards. We Will appreciate assistance in  technical training, the preparation of conservation and maintenance strategies and structural intervention for  monuments damaged through natural causes.
13.14 Mr President, we welcome the priority attached in the 1994-1995 Draft Programme and Budget to  such concerns as the strengthening of communication capabilities, among others. We have a major film  industry in the Philippines and a pool of Young artists, and we accept with great appreciation the invitations of  France and Germany and other UNESCO Member States to participate in the celebration of the centenary of  the cinema. It is also of great significance to us to strengthen our communication capabilities and the  Philippines Will soon be undertaking, under the Participation Programme, a project entitled ‘Green News’.  Lastly, a possible project on the development of multimedia programmes on moral recovery and cultural values  Will be proposed as a possible second Philippine project under the Participation Programme.
13.15 1 cannot conclude without appealing to the General Conference to focus special attention on our small  island developing States. As an island country ourselves, belonging to the Third World, and in a spirit of  solidarity, the Philippines has initiated a draft resolution, co-sponsored by some 20 other States, focusing on  the actions to be pursued to meet the needs of these island States not only in UNESCO Headquarters, but also  by ensuring the full participation of UNESCO in the Global Conference on Sustainable Development of Small  Island Developing States, to be held in Barbados in April next year.
13.16 Mr President, permit me to conclude by stating that, while 1 have attended many United Nations  conferences, this is tbe fnst time 1 have corne to UNESCO, and 1 have truly found it to be the home of the wise  and of all that is humane, civilized and compassionate. We must protect this House and we must love it, for in  these halls we truly fïnd such friends who cari see beyond looking, who cari feel beyond touching, who cari  communicate beyond speaking and who fully understand beyond hearing. It is indeed in this fashion - with  openness, with tolerance through reason, and with respect - that UNESCO contributes to the noble task of  establishing a better world for all. Thank you very much and good day!
(14) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation des Philippines pour cette importante allocution et je donne la  parole à S. Ext. M. Jorge Rodriguez, ministre de la culture et de l’éducation et chef de la délégation de
(15.1) M. RODRIGUEZ (Argentine) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chef de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs les  ambassadeurs, Mesdames, Messieurs.
(15.2) Je souhaite tout d’abord féliciter M. Ahmed Sayyad pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence  générale et remercier de me donner l’occasion de transmettre à cette honorable assemblée le message de  M. Carlos Sa61 Menem, président de la nation argentine. Au nom de la délégation argentine, je tiens également à  souligner l’importance de la tâche accomplie par M. Federico Mayor, directeur genéral, en faveur de la paix et du  progrès de l’humanité, et à réaffirmer notre détermination de coopérer à la réalisation de ces objectifs. En ma  qualité de ministre de la culture et de l’éducation de la République argentine, je suis très honoré de pouvoir  exposer notre point de vue dans cette enceinte prestigieuse où s’expriment idées et réflexions sur l’action  culturelle, éducative et scientifique. Nous vivons à une époque caractérisée par des mutations rapides. Des  transformations sociales et politiques qui se sont préparées silencieusement pendant des décennies s’opèrent  aujourd’hui avec une intensité inhabituelle dans différentes régions de la planète. La plupart d’entre elles  pourraient être qualifiées d’explosions de paix, de démocratie, de justice et de respect des droits de I’homme. Cela  permet d’augurer un avenir où l’humanité sera solidement unie pour atteindre un même objectif : élever le niveau  de vie matériel et spirituel de tous les peuples sans distinction. Un avenir où la solidarité entre les nations fera du  dialogue et de la coopération les principaux mécanismes de n%olution des conflits et d’intégration à un ordre  mondial marqué par plus de justice et une plus grande convivialité dans la liberté.
(15.3) Nous constatons, d’un autre côté, l’existence de situations où dominent l’affrontement, l’intolérance,  l’incompréhension, l’injustice et la haine. Dans ces situations - qui devraient aujourd’hui appartenir au passé et qui  concernent chacun de nous -, la diversité, au lieu de favoriser la complémentarité, sert d’argument à la conduite de  la guerre, à la négation d’autrui et au refus de la différence.
(15.4) Cette variété de situations accroît d’autant la mission de l’UNESCO, organisation clé qui a pour  vocation, en vertu de son Acte constitutif, de jeter les bases d’un monde de paix. Elle peut tracer les chemins  nécessaires pour que l’humanité s’oriente définitivement dans la voie de l’harmonie, de la croissance et de la  justice. C’est pourquoi nous sommes venus exprimer, au nom du peuple argentin, notre soutien le plus énergique à  l’action de I’UNESCO : à son action passée qui en a fait le plus noble des organismes du système des Nations  Unies et à son action présente, qui prend appui sur les réalités d’une époque marquée, elle le sait, par des  évolutions irréversibles. Nous exprimons notre soutien sans réserve et notre confiance dans l’avenir d’une  organisation soutenue par la communauté des nations dans sa mission gigantesque qui est d’assurer la fraternité,  le bonheur et le développement des peuples.
(15.5) Chacun s’accorde à reconnaître que le changement incessant est la caractéristique de notre époque ; c’est  dire l’importance fondamentale de l’action que 1’UNESCO doit mener pour imprimer son orientation à ce  changement et notamment pour veiller à ce que le progrès scientifique et technologique serve toute l’humanité, et  en particulier les peuples qui sont les moins avancés et les plus démunis. Les avantages comparatifs qui ont  procuré autrefois à nos pays de bonnes possibilités de développement, les matières premières et le capital par  exemple, entrent de moins en moins en ligne de compte. L’apparition de nouvelles technologies et la formation de  ressources humaines capables de les maîtriser et de participer activement aux nouvelles formes d’organisation du  travail sont devenues les principaux éléments de notre temps. La possibilité même d’introduire des technologies  modernes qui augmentent la productivité et la compétitivité des nations dépend de plus en plus des capacités et  des aptitudes de l’individu. Le principal avantage dans la concurrence que se livrent les pays est désormais le  niveau d’instruction des populations.
(15.6) Certes, il faut que les nations bénéficient des progrès de la connaissance et de l’évolution scientifique et  technologique pour pouvoir se faire une place dans un système économique qui ne cesse de se mondialiser. Mais  avec la complexité du monde d’aujourd’hui, l’accès des masses à la connaissance suppose le renforcement des  démocraties et une plus grande participation à la vie publique de vastes secteurs de la population auparavant  exclus de la vie politique et économique. Dans le même temps, la généralisation d’un enseignement de meilleure  qualité aura pour effet de réduire les inégalités sociales dans chaque pays.
(15.7) Dune part, elle favorisera la création d’emplois et permettra à de nouvelles catégories de population de  s’intégrer aux secteurs modernes de l’économie, combattant ainsi un des grands fléaux de notre époque : le  chômage. D’autre part, l’introduction de technologies nouvelles est indispensable pour résoudre des problèmes qui  se posent depuis des siècles dans bien des pays.
(15.8) La solution de ces problèmes, qui touchent notamment la santé, le logement et les transports, exige de  l’imagination et des connaissances car il faut r&pondre avec de faibles ressources à des besoins criants. On a  appliqué dans de vastes régions des stratégies de croissance qui ont entraîné une dégradation des ressources  naturelles dont les conditions de vie des générations futures ne manqueront pas de se ressentir. A cet égard, la  diffusion des connaissances scientifiques et du savoir est également indispensable pour préserver durablement  I’environnement planétaire.
(15.9) Enfin, je voudrais souligner le rôle de la connaissance dans la lutte contre les préjugés et les  intolérances culturelles qui subsistent encore dans de nombreuses kgions du globe.
(15.10) Monsieur le Président, l’Argentine, ces dernière années, a fortement progressé sur la bonne voie.  Aujourd’hui, après de nombreux sacrifices, notre peuple peut en toute modestie montrer au reste du monde  quelques-uns des fruits de cet effort. En 1993, notre démocratie a eu dix ans. Peut-être une durée aussi courte ne  signifie-t-elle pas grand-chose po.ur certains pays ; pour nous, c’est beaucoup. Le degré de maturité que nous avons  atteint nous permet d’affirmer que le système démocratique est le seul capable de garantir la coexistence entre  tous les Argentins dans la diversité.
(15.11) De plus, nous avons réussi à inverser la tendance à la kgression économique enregistrée ces dernières  décennies et nous nous sommes engagés sur la voie de la croissance dans une stabilité qui nous permet de laisser  derrière nous les démons de l’inflation débridée et de nous diriger vers une économie de plus en plus compétitive  et ouverte. sur le monde. Cette croissance économique s’accompagne de justice sociale : nous créons des emplois,  nous élaborons des programmes de promotion sociale, nous répondons aux besoins essentiels de ceux qui  manquent de logements, de services de santé et d’éducation, de sécurité et de justice. Notre tâche est: déjà bien  avancée mais il nous reste encore beaucoup à faire pour consolider nos acquis et améliorer les conditions de vie  de notre peuple.
(15.12) Le Parlement argentin vient d’adopter une Loi fédérale sur l’éducation, véritablement révolutionnaire,  qui fait entrer notre système éducatif de plain-pied dans le XXIe siècle. Nous procédons actuellement à la  décentralisation de notre système éducatif, que nous dotons d’une structure nouvelle, et nous portons à 10 ans la  durée de la scolarité obligatoire. Nous nous efforçons de garantir un enseignement de qualité à tous les Argentins  afin d’assurer une véritable égalité des chances et des possibilités, de mettre en valeur nos ressources humaines  pour accroître l’efficacité et la compétitivité économiques, et d’appliquer une stratégie scientifique el.  technologique qui réponde à nos besoins en matière de croissance. Le modèle que nous proposons au pays ne sera  viable que si l’on améliore en profondeur le système éducatif et si l’on redonne suffisamment de sa souplesse à sa  structure institutionnelle.
(15.13) Notre système éducatif, à l’image de YArgentine tout entière d’ailleurs, subit une transformation sans  précédent. Le monde évolue, et les compétences et capacités dont les étudiants doivent faire preuve changent elles  aussi. Il faut aujourd’hui former des hommes et des femmes dotés d’esprit critique, d’une solide culture générale,  sachant apprendre, et capables d’une pensée abstraite qui leur permette d’appréhender globalement les processus  technologiques et les besoins de l’être humain. Ils doivent savoir prendre des décisions, penser en termes de  stratégie et de planification, répondre de façon originale à des demandes changeantes, et s’adapter à l’évolution du  monde de la production et du travail ; ils doivent aussi avoir le sens de la solidarité et participer activement au  fonctionnement des organisations sociales. Ces hommes et ces femmes doivent être capables de se doter d’un  projet de vie fondé sur les valeurs qui étaient celles de leurs ancêtres, à savoir l’amour, le savoir et le travail.
(15.14) Si le devenir des hommes et des femmes au seuil du XXIe siècle doit être envisagé dans la perspective  du progrès scientifique et technologique, il faut aussi que ce progrès soit subordonné et associé à tout un  ensemble de valeurs culturelles et spirituelles qui favorisent la transcendance, la convivialité et la dignité de l’être  humain. C’est pourquoi nous demandons à l’UNESCO de prendre l’initiative d’un débat sur les connaissances de  base que tous les habitants de la planète, sans distinction de nationalité, de race ou de religion, devraient posséder  à l’aube du troisième millénaire.
(15.15) NOUS tenons à souligner l’importance des initiatives prises par le Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO dans le  domaine de la coopération intellectuelle internationale : le Forum de réflexion ad hoc où seront confrontées les  vues sur les nouveaux problèmes qui se posent à travers le monde et auxquels I’UNESCO devra s’attaquer dans  ses programmes futurs, la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle présidée par M. Jacques  Delors, la Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement présidée par M. Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, le  projet “Education et information en matière d’environnement et de population pour le développement humain”, et  la création du nouveau programme international de sciences sociales.
(15.16) Monsieur le Président, je voudrais réaffirmer pour conclure la confiance du peuple et du gouvernement  argentins dans l’action de l’UNESCO. Nous savons que notre soutien est bien modeste mais il vient de notre  intelligence et de notre coeur. Nous savons aussi qu’il acquiert une autre dimension quand il tipond au sentiment  partagé par 180 Etats membres, dont le souci de paix, de développement et de justice ne fait que refléter  l’aspiration de l’humanité à vivre dans un monde où tous les peuples sans exception pourront cohabiter dans la  fraternité et le bonheur. Je vous remercie.
(1’5) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l’Argentine pour cette importante déclaration. La parole est  maintenant à S. Ext. M. Jürgen Trumpf, secrétaire d’Etat aux affaires étrangères et chef de la délégation de  l’Allemagne.
17.1 Mr TRUMPF (Germany):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my government, 1 congratulate you, Mr President, on  your election. 1 wish you every success in your high and responsible office as President of this Conference, and
1 Will try to help you by being as brief as possible. 1 warmly welcome the new members of our Organization.  They make UNESCO a more universaI body, which is our common desire. Germany also hopes that those  countries that left for important reasons in the mid-eighties Will soon decide to rejoin the Organization.
17.2 UNESCO must play its part in facing the great challenges of our time. They have been described in  various ways in this General Conference and at the forty-eighth session of the United Nations General  Assembly. Their essence is contained in the analysis with which the Diiector-General introduces his Draft  Programme for the coming two years: a ‘world parmership for development’ in order to narrow and, in time, to  close the gap between North and South; and the promotion of a ‘culture of peace’ in order to counter the  disturbing rise of conflicts based on national, ethnie, religious, linguistic or cultural differences. Germany  entirely agrees with this analysis. We believe that these challenges cari only be met by extraordinary efforts on  the part of the entire international community.
17.3 One of the central elements of UNESCO’s mandate is to contribute towards preserving peace and the  welfare of mankind by promoting international co-operation in the fïelds of education, science, culture and  communication. The German Foreign Minister, in his address to tbe forty-eighth session of the United Nations  General Assembly, on the signifïcance of a culture of peace said: ‘It is another prerequisite for lasting peace.  Not only governments but individual citizens must develop the Will for peace if we want to overcome racial  hatred and religious conflict. A culture of peace encompasses a dialogue between ethnie groups as well as  between religions and cultures. We need bridges of mutual understanding. We need to promote education for  peace. UNESCO with its mandate to foster relations between nations therefore deserves comprehensive  support’.
17.4 Mr President, during the last few Yeats, UNESCO has perceptibly increased in stature owing to its  resolute reform policy. Today it is better equipped than ever to assume intellectual leadership within the United  Nations. Germany Will continue to support this reform process.
17.5 The Director-General, in his Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium, has produced an  excellent document. 1 would like to thank him for this. He has set tbe right course for tbe next two years.  However, we must realize that all Member States Will be facing considerable budgetary and financial  constraints for the foreseeable future. The United Nations organizations Will also be affected by this situation.  For UNESCO, this means that the 1994-1995 ordinary budget must adhere to tbe principle of a zero-real  programme growth. In view of the existing and possibly also future shortfalls in contributions, Germany  recommends the drawing up of an effective contingency planning mechanism.
17.6 My govemment entirely agrces with the Director-General’s opinion that UNESCO is neither a  technical assistance agency nor primarily a research facility. Rather, our Organization’s task is the exchange of  knowledge, its role that of a catalyst and a co-ordinator. For this reason, Germany has presented a draft  resolution to this session of the General Conference which takes up the Director-General5 theme of involving  the National Commissions more closely in UNESCO co-operation, thus strengthening its links with  representatives of intellectual and cultural life in the Member States. The German Commission for UNESCO,  with its proposais and commitment, is prepared for such co-operation, and is maintaining close contacts with  partner organizations all over the world.
17.7 We fully support the process of programme concentration. The priorities in the Director-General’s  Draft Programme and Budget are in our opinion, correctly determined. We expressly welcome the fact that  programme concentration is linked with increased programme evaluation. This is a guarantee that future  programmes Will be reliably identified.
17.8 We support the considerable financial reinforcement of the basic education programme by almost  $1 million. As in the past, Germany Will continue to give extra funds-in-trust to this major programme area.  The UNESCO Institute for Education plays an important role in adult basic education and informa1 youth  training. This Institute deserves support by ail of us. We welcome the proposed resolution, also with a view to  possible further decentralization, and Germany Will continue to promote the Hamburg Institute within its  possibilities.
17.9 Mr President, technical and vocational education for as many people as possible is one of the  prerequisites for sustainable development. Its place in teaching systems should be improved and its status  raised. Education and employment must not be seen and develop in isolation but in a co-ordinated way. The
135    twenty-sixth session of the General Conference decided to keep technical and vocational education as a separate  subprogramme, to increase the relevant budget, and to initiate UNEVOC, UNESCO5 technical and vocational  education project. During its first meeting in September 1993, the Advisory Committee for UNEVOC  recommended that the ordinary budget funds be increased considerably in order to reflect the high priority  given to technical and vocational training. Germany, as a follow-up to these decisions, has proposed in a draft  resolution that this recommendation be put into practice.Our Conference’s approval, which 1 would like fellow  delegates to give, would above all benefit those countries hoping for UNEVOC assistance in developing  strategies for improving technical and vocational education within their teaching systems. Germany is  prepared to aid the UNEVOC project in the next biennium, too, by means of extra-budgetary contributions.
17.10 Mr President, we concur with the Director-General’s view that in the scient& sector the Environment  and Natural Resources Management programme should be given priority. It concentrates on ecological issues  and has met with particular interest among experts and practical minds both within and outside Germany.  National committees work in Germany on recognized international programmes. As our contribution to know-  how transfer, we are happy to share our experience with others, for example in the annual UNESCO further  training courses for seismologists and ecologists which have been carried out in Germany for over ten years.  Germany Will continue to give funds-in-trust for projects in this field.
17.11 The preservation of the cultural heritage and the World Decade for Cultural Development are major  features in UNESCO’s cultural programme, rightly SO in our opinion. However, the preservation of our cultural  heritage must not be limited to monuments. A draft resolution for this General Conference on the preservation  of the cinematographic heritage has been introduced by my country together with France and Belgium; 1 would  like to ask you to support this motion.
17.12 Mr President, in the field of communication UNESCO has assumed the significant role of a pioneer of  press freedom. 11 has made the second part of the 1989 decision, the development of communication capacities  in the Third World, one of its prime concems. We support UNESCO% efforts and continue to provide funds-in-  trust for this purpose.
17.13 Our objectives cannot be achieved without sufficient knowledge of the conditions for socio-cultural  change. The new international social science programme, ‘Management of Social Transformations’ (MOST),  cari provide promising approaches for this process. Germany is willing and able to play an active part in this  programme. We aIso specially welcome the continuing efforts made by UNESCO in general to improve the  situation of women.
17.14 Finally, a Word on UNESCOs forward-looking activities. We welcome those and consider them to be  of the utmost importance. They are concentrated in the Forum of Reflection, the International Commisssion on  Education for the Twenty-First Century, chaired by Jacques Delors, President of the European Commission,  and in the World Commission on Culture and Development, led by the former United Nations Secretary-  General, Javier Perez de Cuéllar. My govemment is looking forward to the suggestions and proposais which  Will be put forward by them.
17.15 Mr President, let me close by expressing my conviction that today our Organization is well equipped to  realize its objectives. Now it is up to us as Member States to give it the means required to do SO. Germany Will  continue to support UNESCO, SO that in the years to corne it may play its part in mastering the major  challenges of our time. Thank you.  (Mr Maior, Romania, takes the Chair)
18. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank tbe head of the delegation of Germany and 1 give the floor to the Honourable Datuk Amar  Dr Sulaiman Haji Daud, the Minister of Education and head of the delegation of Malaysia.
19.1 Mr DAUD (Malaysia):  Mr President, Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Govemment of Malaysia and my delegation, 1 would like to extend my most sincere congratulations to  Mr Sayyad on his election to the presidency of this twenty-seventh session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. We are indeéd confident that under his able leadership and guidance, the business of the Conference  Will be conducted smoothly and effïciently. 1 would also like to express my sincere gratitude to his predecessor,  Professor Ogot of Kenya, for the invaluable services that he rendered to the Organization during bis ter-m of  office.
19.2 Mr President, one cari choose to describe or perceive the global situation today in hvo different  perspectives, seeing it from either the dark side or the bright side. Some people are already making  pronouncements about the emergence of a new pattern of conflict among mankind. They cal1 it a civilizational  clash, posited as an adversarial conflict among the major civilizations of the world, competing to shape, to  defïne or to dominate the world in terms of the particular interests or values of each civilization. This is the  dark, dismal view of tbe global situation: the supposition is mat human beings are now in conflict because of  cultural or civilizational differences. This postulation of human civilization as a source of conflict poses a  serious challenge to, and perhaps casts doubt on, the ongoing vision of global peace based on cu1tura.l contact  and understanding. It is a challenge to UNESCO’s mission, which is built on this vision.
19.3 Mr President, conflict due to cultural, religious or ethnie differences has always been the sore point-in  the history of mankind. What should we do to stop it f!rom happening? What choice do we have, living in this  world of great cultural or civilizational diversity, except to continue to pursue the objective of peace by  promoting global respect for cultural pluralism? This is the moment of reflection, not of despair. We who are  gathered here in this very assembly represent ail the major civilizations, ail the cultures of the world; and we  must therefore continue to discover in ail these different cultures, these different civilizations, the basis on  which ultimate peace could be built. This search represents the bright side of this human project.
19.4 UNESCO5 ‘Culture of Peace’ programme reflects the optimism that peace cari be developed from  human culture, the common heritage of mankind, and to my mind, this new metaphor of peace re-emphasizes  the whole purpose of UNESCO’s mission, that is, to promote peace in the minds of men. As stated in  document 27 CX, this is the essential component, the uhimate goal, of the Agen& for Peace set out by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations, and tbis means a lot of tbings.
19.5 While the traditional programmes to build the defences against war in the minds of men are yet to  achieve their full purpose, new issues have emerged to compound existing human problems: environmental  degradation, the scourge of AIDS, the spread of drug problems, and moral decadence in the urban centres of the  world. These are problems which have taken us by surprise. 1 say by surprise’ because we were mostly not ready  to deal with these unforeseen moral problems effectively by using the materialistic methods of development tbat  we have developed over the years to improve our physical or material conditions. Paradoxically enough, these  moral problems are tbe by-products, the creations, of our SO-called development programmes. Ultimately, we  cari trace the source of the problems in human minds, in our education system, and in the way we order the  world according to our mental picture of it.
19.6 One good thing, however, has resulted from ail this development malaise. Mankind is beginning to  realize that development without the support or basis of some kind of culture or moral or ethical values is  bound to be counter-productive. It cannot be a lasting venture. The notion of vertical or materialistic  development, that ‘the sky is the limit’, is probably the main impetus that has driven mankind to resort to the  unbridled exploitation of the world’s natural resources, which has today led to the degradation of the  environment and which fmally sent men scurrying to the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro to talk sense out of  this ‘sky is the limit’ syndrome.
19.7 Mr President, 1 am happy to note that UNESCO bas responded to this problem by developing a  number of major themes or by re-emphasizing the need for mankind to go back to the basics of human  development. 1 should mention two major themes or emphases in the current Medimn-Term Plan which are  particularly relevant to the situation mentioned earlier: basic education or education for ah; and development.  We must admit that in most cases, conflict between man and his fellow beings and even witb himself, witb his  environment, has not been anticipated or forestalled by the education system or the development plan, simply  because traditionally the system is too preoccupied with the objective of developing the human physical  condition, without regard to the role of values in the process. The education system, for example, is more  concemed with the teaching of skills and with developing tbe intelligence potential and what is called the  ‘rationalistic’ or ‘scientific’ cognition of the students. Today many countries are beginning to realize mat mis is  not the only purpose of human education and development. Many countries are beginning to reform their  education systems and to redelïne the moral philosophy of education to balance the post-industrial, post-  modemistic, materialistic world view of development and progress, and to forestall its negative effects on the  individual and society. Malaysia, for example, bas taken the integrated, holistic approach to development in  which the human element, the role of morals, the role of religion and the role of ethics, is central. The  Malaysian education system is charged with the purpose of really educating human beings, not of transforming  humans into robots to run the industry and cough out pollution. The country is undergoing a rapid process of  industrialization. Economie prosperity is very visible. Economie and industrial pundits have sometimes  described this development as a ‘miracle’, but they never sec what is behind all this. It is the people who make  this happen, not just the machines and the factories, The human face is still there, the culture remains, positive
137    values such as hard work, diligence, honesty, love and tare for one’s neighbour and for society, values which 1  believe are universally acceptable norms of moral, ethical and cultural behaviour, are maintained and respected.  This is the balance that we want to preserve, because we believe that ultimately this is where the strength and  sustaining power of man lies.
19.8 Mr President, education and development are inexorably interdependent; like twins, the one cannot  exist without the other. However one looks at it, in bath cases, the central theme is ultimately man and his  environment, and the process of harmonizing the two is what education is all about. We have to reach for this  ultimate goal. Today mankind is forced by its own follies to define or redefme its old vision of the world and  relate it to sustainable development, to education for all, to cultural pluralism, and fmally to the new idiom,  culture for peace. UNESCO is now placed at the centre of mis new challenge, this transformation, this  reforming and this renewal process in the history of mankind.
19.9 Mr President, awareness of this critical moment when man has to make a choice between the old  vision and a new one was amply demonstrated at the sixth Conference of Ministers of Education and those  Responsible for Economie Planning in Asia and the Pacifie (MINEDAP-VI), hosted by tbe Malaysian  Govemment in Kuala Lumpur from 21 to 24 June this year, at which 1 had the honour and privilege of  presiding. 1 believe that the full report and recommendations of the meeting have been circulated to a11 of you  by the Director-General. The Kuala Lumpur Declaration on Education, issued at the end of the Conference,  expressed, inter dia, ‘a profound conviction that the only path to the restoration of a balance in its value system  in a world increasingly shaped by materialism was to assign a signilïcant place for the teaching of ethics, values  and culture in the school curriculum’. Central to the themes emerging from the Kuala Lumpur Declaration and  the whole Conference is the role of human values in education, and hence in development. It cuts across and  encompasses a whole range of contemporary human issues: the rights of women and children, environmental  protection, illiteracy, basic education, and SO on. Al1 these are basic human issues, the solution of which must  begin not only in the classroom but more fundamentally in the human mind. The whole process of transforming  the vision of the new world bascd on the new parameters and paradigms of peace must now start in the  education system, built into the school curriculum, and not just verbally acted out or dramatized in the rhetoric  of forum speech-making.
19.10 Mr President, UNESCO’s role in the human development process, whether through the mediation of  education, culture, science or communication, has been described as catalytic in nature. UNESCO must  continue to provide and enhance its intellectual leadership role in areas of its competence. When we talk of  devclopment in terms of human values, we are not saying that the whole world must follow or adopt a universal  mode& because there is no such model. The culture for peace aims, among other things, to discover values  common to all mankind. This is the essence of the message, and UNESCO’s programmes must reflect this  spirit. This is a pluralistic world and for the culture of peace to succeed, according to the Director-General, it  bas to be built on this pluralism through mutual respect and tolerance. It would be useful for UNESCO to  conduct an in-depth study of the value systems of the diiferent cultures or civilizations of the world, or to  explain or define the meanings of human rights, freedom, the rights of women, democracy and SO on by taking  into account the pluralistic dimensions, the religious and humanistic values and world views of the global  communities.
19.11 Mr President, over the years, UNESCO bas been accumulating a long list of programmes. Perhaps  this is to be expected. The world is never short of problems, and UNESCO has to respond to these within its  fields of competence. Member States demand action and are continuously requesting additional programmes to  be included in the already arithmetically uncountable list - 1 understand that about 400 draft resolutions have  been submitted to this session of the General Conference. Al1 this is indeed a healthy sign. It shows that the  Organization is responsive to its extemal environment, and that Member States are actively supporting it.  There is a lot of activity, but this cari also be a source of trouble for UNESCO. It cari create the problem of  synergy, of imbalance between activity and productivity between the input of resources and the output of results.
1 need hardly emphasize the importance of programme concentration and consolidation. It is essential that  programmes that aim to achieve the same objectives be interlocked, and not operated or even conceived as  separate or independent. UNESCO’s mission and its message of peace, has to be implemented through  common-purpose and common-content programmes. This message cari be lost in a welter of different  programmes.
19.12 Mr President, decentralization of programme execution from Paris to the UNESCO Regional Offices  could relieve the increasing management and organizational burden at Headquarters. This change Will help to  make UNESCO more visible and closer to its constituents in the regions. Programmes executed in the regions  or at the national level Will have the benefit of involving the national expertise and using the infrastructure of  the National Commissions for UNESCO in the initiation or planning and execution of national or regional
5  programmes. In this respect, Malaysia fully supports the proposal of the Director-General to allocate 45 per  cent of the total budget under Programme Execution and Services, which amounts to about $119 million, for  the implementation of this decentralization programme.
19.13 In conclusion, Mr President, 1 believe mat the future lies in our minds. It is in the minds of men that  all hopes for a better future, a future of peace and well-being for mankind, are conceived. We ail share the  same hopes, the same vision of this future. As they say, today’s dream is tomorrow’s reality. This is tbe  ultimate goal of our present mission, and despite the magnitude of challenges facing us today, 1 am optimistic  that as long as mis dream keeps buming in our hearts, as long as there is common understanding and constant  dialogue among us as to how we should build this future together through UNESCO, it is not impossible that  the new world Will become a reality.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to H.E. Mr Ferenc Madl, Minister of Culture and Education and head  of the delegation of Hungary.
21.1 Mr MAIL (Hungary):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, fust 1 would like to join  the previous speakers in congratulating Mr Sayyad on his election to high office as President of the General  Conference.
21.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the previous General Conference and the Director-General  have in meir speeches appealed to all of us to do what we cari to improve our troubled world. Historic  developments have taken place in this direction. If there was an instrument which measured historical  changes, both in quality and quantity, its dial would have indicated more events in the course of the last four  years than during the preceding four decades. Referring to the French Revolution, Goethe - the giant of German  and world culture - is claimed to have said that it was inspiring to be present when history was being made.  Today we are not only passive lookers-on or observers of history, but responsible participants.
21.3 In the past few years, as a result of the determination of the peoples involved, we have witnessed the  dissolution of a political system based on totalitarian political and economic philosophy. The newly created  States of Eastem and Central Europe have returned to democracy and thus to the political and cultural heritage  of Europe. The ahered power relations have also allowed other decisive agreements to take place in the world,  such as the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which, for many decades, seemcd unsolvable.
21.4 These positive changes have, however, been overshadowed by the bloodshed in Bosnia, the Caucasus,  Sudan and Somalia and elsewhere. In addition, it seems we must also continue to deal with such crisis-  inducing processes as the mthless exploitation of nature, the shift of ecological balance, the spread of narcotic  drugs, as well as AIDS and other ravaging diseases. The twenty-seventh session of UNESCO’s General  Conference, whose task is to be a catalyst in solving bath new and old conflicts, and to cal1 upon the Member  States to reason and act jointly, is being held in such a contradictory historical situation.
21.5 A most important task of UNESCO is to cal1 the attention of Member States to those global problems  mat are not to be neglected when drawing up their regional programmes. In ail probability, this truth should be  understood vice versa; in other words, global, universal co-operation cari be successful only if it is backed by  well prepared regional programmes.
21.6 In this respect, the PROCEED programme initiated by the Director-General deserves special attention.  It clearly defines the frame of a new type of regional co-operation. On behalf of the Hungarian Government, 1  warmly welcome this programme.
21.7 The Hungarian National Commission for UNESCO has prepared several proposals for this session of  the General Conference, proposals which have borne fruit in the PROCEED programme and strengthened it as  well. Let me list a few of them.
21.8 Based on the Memorandum signed by the Director-General on his visit to Hungary in 1990, we have  prepared a draft resolution on a European centre for traditional culture to be set up in Budapest. It Will seck to  help the peoples of the region to strengthen their identity and, by protecting the values of their traditions, to  ease tension between old and new ways of life.
21.9 The aim of the European cultural data base - another project - is to develop for culture an international  information network available to all, bath individuals and communities, schools and cultural institutions, and  thereby to further co-operation through an enhanced exchange of information.
21.10 While we emphasize the importance of regional programmes, however, we do not wish to neglect  interregional and intercontinental co-operation. In this regard, we have introduced a draft resolution on the  protection and development of the historical area of Angkor. In our view, it is of the utmost importance to  facilitate and contribute to the establishment, efficient distribution of labour, and balance of activities among  various agents in the emerging new international co-operation on the preservation of Angkor. Therefore, we  warmly support and welcome the Tokyo Declaration adopted by me nations active in mis field.
21.11 In the area of education, our proposaIs aim at diminishing and eventually eliminating the  consequences of former East-West differences. Thus, among other goals, we attach great importance to the  modemization of vocational training in the Central European countries. We note with satisfaction that our  initiative is in hamrony with similar proposals under discussion.
21.12 Regarding enviromnental education, we are striving for more fruitful regional co-operation in working  out a training package on radioactive pollution and its consequences.
21.13 The integration of handicapped children into society is a universal goal. Our proposition invites ail  Member States to take definite action in this area.
21.14 Regional co-operation cari be successful only if the National Commissions are able to carry out their  main task of CO-ordination. This moved us in Hungary to reorganize our National Commission for UNESCO.  Reform of our Commission for UNESCO is a part of a broader social process, the main objective of which is the  strengthening of parliamentary democracy, the rule of law under the constitutional order and, hand-in-hand  with this, the development of a modem social market economy.
21.15 A major event which should be of importance to UNESCO is the passage of the new Hungarian Act on  the rights of national and ethnie minorities. The Hungarian Govemment, democratically elected in 1990, has  since its formation urged for the regulation, at national, bilateral and international levels, of the rights of  minorities. There is an evident need to create such evident appropriate international instruments as would  secure the observance of cultural rights for national, ethnie, religious and linguistic minorities. It should,  among otber matters, guarantee the right of minorities to use their mother tongue by free choice.
21.16 In this regard, therefore, our firm objective is to create, with the active participation of the Member  States, an appropriate document for the protection and promotion of the cultural rights of minorities within tbe  field of competencc of UNESCO. It is necessary, following United Nations resolution 471135 of
18 December 1992, the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages issued by the Council of Europe,  and other relevant international documents, that UNESCO, too, should take a stand on this issue. The  acceptance of such a UNESCO resolution would greatly enhance the international reputation of the  Organization.
21.17 Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary celebrates its eleventh centenary in 1996, and in the same year we  shall bave the privilege of hosting tbe World Exhibition. For bath events we plan to organize numerous large-  scale cultural programmes, to which 1 bave the honour to invite UNESCO and ail Member States. UNESCO  in many fields of its activities has expressed its support for endangered cultures in their complex  interrelationship with dominant cultures. Therefore, we sball do our best to ensure that the cultural programme  of the World Exhibition Will pay distinct attention to both sustainable development and harmonious  ‘co-habitation’ with neighbouring cultures and countries.
21.18 It is in our best interest that UNESCO should play an important and distinguished role in the cultural  symbiosis of all mankind. We wish to prove, not only by words but by action as well, that we consider the  strengthening of UNESCO’s intellectual, moral and financial position to be a necessity in solving the problems  of our time.
21.19 It is my wish that UNESCO, which Will soon celebrate its fiftieth anniversary, Will grow Young and  strong again, and successfully respond to the challenges arising at the tum of the millennium. Thank you.
22.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Hungary and 1 cal1 on His Excellency Mr Patrick Pillay, Minister  of Education and Culture and head of the delegation of Seychelles.
22.2 1 should like to remind you that we are behind schedule and that the time allowed to all speakers is ten  minutes.
23.1 Mr PILLAY (Seychelles):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Seychelles, 1 would also lie to join the previous speakers  in congratulating the President on his election. 1 wish him all the best in steering this leamed Conference. 1  shall, Mr President, ensure that 1 respect your ten-minute limit.
23.2 During the last General Conference of UNESCO, many delegates made reference to the political and  social changes that had taken place leading to a ‘new world order’. Present events emphasize the fact that we  are living in a world that is diverse and changing, full of striking contrasts. This diversity, however, is much  better understood by different peoples of the world as a result of communications technology which bas  winched the world closer together and led to significant global awareness.
23.3 The more we have become conscious of these striking contrasts and diversity the more we have become  conscious that all countries and all peoples of the world are interdependent. What happens in one part of it  often has repercussions on another part or on the rest of it. This is truc not only conceming what happens in or  to nature such as the depletion of the ozone layer or the destruction of the tropical min forests. It also is true  with regard to cultural, political and economic trends and movements. Communications technology has  certainly brought us closer together. Let me illustrate how this cari manifest itself within countries by taking the  example of my own country, Seychelles. Since the last General Conference of UNESCO, Seychelles has gone  through a process of political transition to a multi-party democracy. These two years have not been without  difficulties. Considerable financial costs were involved. But today the nation is proud that it has successfully  negotiated the fust phase of a political process that was potentially fraught with grave dangers that could have  jeopardized its future. 1 say ftrst phase because 1 think what follows is equally important. A new Constitution  has been promulgated and a new government voted into office through free and fair elections held under the  watchful eyes of several international observers. It is in this context that 1 consider it pertinent to mention the  important role played by the media, in particular the broadcasting media. Al1 the deliberations of the  Constitutional Commission drafting the new Constitution were broadcast live on radio and transmitted every  evening on television over a period of four months. Thus the Commission% work was carried out with complete  openness and with active participation of the population who were enabled to contribute their own viewpoints  and recommendations. This process was not only instrumental in crystallizing national and political  reconciliation but was also a significant exercise in civic education. 1 see this as a very good illustration of the  positive role that independent and responsible media should play in a democratic society; but above a11 it  reflects the powerful impact that communications technology has and its instrumental role in cultivating  understanding, harmony and peace. Hence my unconditional support for the importance that the Director-  General attaches to the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC).
23.4 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 address you as a representative of a country that is small in several senses of  the term and not generally considered of great signifïcance in international affairs. It is with whole-hearted  enthusiasm, therefore, that the Seychelles welcomes the imminent strengthening of the Unit for Small Island  States. The emphasis is by no means misplaced in an age when the economic and political viability of small  S&ues and minorities, the vulnerability of small island States in the face of ecological degradation, and the  urgent need for integrated development strategies with investment in human resources at its centre, have  become self-evident realities in any plan to survive beyond the threshold of the third millennium.
23.5 In the field of education, for example, we suffer grave handicaps at the level of tertiary education  owing to our size. We cannot have our own tertiary institutions. We are dependent on larger countries and  have to send our students Overseas, at no little cost. A major handicap that underlies many of our shortcomings  is the shortage of qualified people in key operational areas.
23.6 Thus, what the Govemment and people of the Seychelles would ask of the Director-General and of bis  able staff both here at Headquarters and in the field is to give the Unit established to implement the small island  States programme the sort of administrative support that Will guarantee to the peoples of such States all over  the globe effective, efficient and sustainable service in the pursuit of their own growth and development. We,  for our part, would like to assure UNESCO that we are not unaware of our own responsibilities in the entire  enterprise; and we promise to give, at our end, all the necessary support to facilitate the successful outcome of  the programme over the next biennium.
23.7 My govemment welcomes the priority accorded to decentralization and, in the Draft Programme and  Budget, to the least-developed countries, women, and Africa. 1 was heartened to hear distinguished delegates,
141    including the representative of the Philippines this moming, talking about the role of women in development.  In the Seychelles women have corne into their own and nowadays contribute on equal terms in many fields  alongside men. Our literacy rate is higher for women than for men. In a government cabinet of 11 ministers  three are women. Thirty-six per cent of our elected parliamentarians are women. Our experience amply  testifïes to the fact that no meaningful and sustainable development is possible without the active participation  of women. 1 would therefore urge UNESCO to continue its relentless efforts to engage women in education and  development programmes.
23.8 As with the small island States programme, SO with the initiative suggested by the ad hoc Forum of  Reflection: 1 refer to the recommendation conceming what the group of volunteer consultants has designated as  ‘Learning without frontiers’. This, as we know, goes by many names, for example, distance education. The  people of the Seychelles welcome this proposed initiative as a timely commitment by UNESCO in one of its  main areas of competence.
23.9 As an island nation, the Seychelles firmly believes that global education, distance education, learning  beyond frontiers - cal1 it what we Will - is in keeping with the complexities of the new world order - a world  order that even now brings the entire planet, thanks to the new and all-pervasive communications technology  revolution, instantaneously within our mental grasp. Indeed one cannot look at education solely as training and  the transmission of information.
23.10 In conclusion, let me say that as UNESCO prepares to celebrate its fiftieth anniversary it must redefine  its mission. Poverty, ignorance and a fragile environment are some of the key areas that imperatively demand  that UNESCO rethink its role as it enters the next millennium. Not only must the Executive Board, the  General Conference and the National Commissions relate differently to one another, but the aims and functions  of these bodies must be redelïned.
23.11 The Govemment and people of the Seychelles join with their colleagues in this august institution in  wishing UNESCO and its Director-General good luck in this venture and all others over the next biennium.  We would particularly like to congratulate the Director-General, on all the work that has been undertaken in  the name of world peace and harmony. We pledge our whole-hearted support to the Organization in  safeguarding the cultural, intellectual, political and social integrity of civil society among the diverse peoples  on planet earth. We look to the dawn of the Century with hope and optimism.
24. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Seychelles and 1 cal1 on His Excellency Mr Michel Edde, Minister  of Culture and Higher Education and head of the delegation of Lebanon.
(25.1) M. EDDE (Liban) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs,  l’histoire de l’humanité démontre de façon flagrante et, le plus souvent, par le sang, qu’il ne suffit pas qu’un  pouvoir soit dans le vrai. Encore faut-il qu’il soit porteur de rêves.
(25.2) La force de notre Organisation, ce qui fait son attrait, c’est qu’elle se tient avec réalisme aux frontières  du rêve ; c’est le prix qu’elle attache au rêve et sa volonté de le rendre accessible i tous. Le Liban a eu l’honneur  d’accueillir la troisième session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, dans sa capitale, Beyrouth, en 1948,  cinq ans tout juste après son accession à l’indépendance. Le lieu qui abrite le bâtiment où s’est tenue cette  conférence est depuis lors connu sous le nom de “zone UNESCO” et c’est là un titre de fierté pour le Liban. Ainsi,  le nom de l’UNESCO s’inscrit désormais dans notre vocabulaire quotidien. Il a investi la géographie de notre pays  et fait partie de sa couleur locale car il est porteur, pour ce petit pays et pour son avenir, de rêve. Il est l’espoir  d’un espace humain pur, qui n’aurait plus pour référence l’équilibre des forces.
(25.3) Malgré l’atrocité des guerres, des tragédies, des conflits et des déchirements qui ont marqué notre pays,  notre région et ce me siècle finissant, jamais le Liban ne s’est laissé aller à penser qu’il s’était trompé, qu’il avait  poussé trop loin en faisant le pari de considérer l’UNESCO comme cette conscience agissante, toujours prompte à  oeuvrer pour l’épanouissement des connaissances, pour la vie partout dans le monde ; lorsqu’il a vu et continue de  voir en elle un objet historique et non un simple enjeu politique.
(25.4) “Le pari demeure la paix dans le monde”, ainsi le Président de la République libanaise de l’époque,  Che*ikh Béchara El-Khoury, avait conclu son allocution d’ouverture 101s de la troisième session de la Conférence  générale en 1948. Ces mots n’ont rien perdu de leur actualité aujourd’hui, malgré la fin de la seconde guerre  mondiale et celle de la “guerre froide”. Déjà, sur les débris de glace, d’épines et de murs écroulés laissés par cette  guerre froide, on voit apparaître de nouvelles lézardes, s’allumer d’autres guerres et d’autres conflits, les uns  latents, les autres ouverts, militaires ou encore économiques mais non moins sanglants. Puis, il y a la pollution, le  dépérissement des arbres et la peur que la verdure du monde ne pâlisse à jamais. Il y a aussi le déséquilibre de la  communication entre les peuples et les pays, qu’il s’agisse de l’écrit ou de l’audiovisuel, au point que le monde doit  devenir un spectacle pour mériter de paraître.
(25.5) Un spectacle dont seuls tirent les ficelles ceux qui ont le pouvoir matériel et technologique. Devant cet  état de choses, il en est qui redoutent de voir s’amenuiser les chances d’un dialogue véritable et généreux entre les  cultures. D’autres ont peur que l’aliénation, l’aveuglement et l’uniformité ne s’emparent des habitants de notre  planète, tuant leur créativité, leur savoir, leur conscience d’eux-mêmes et du monde. Or, vous le savez, là où le  citoyen est aliéné et perturbé, la démocratie recule. D’autres, enfin, lancent un cri d’alarme devant le spectre de la  désertification culturelle aussi redoutable pour l’humanité que le désert, le vrai, celui qui menace de submerger  les pays du Sud.
(25.6) En ces temps inquiétants de notre histoire, il y a de quoi craindre pour la paix tant que la répression  sous différentes formes continuera de faire rage ici ou là. Car notre planète rapetisse de jour en jour et ce  rétrécissement n’atteint pas la seule géographie, mais également l’histoire et surtout notre devenir commun. Ayant  vécu une expérience destructrice, qui semble hélas s’être transportée sur une autre scène du théâtre contemporain,  le Liban, qui a radicalement pris le parti de la paix au Moyen-Orient et ailleurs dans le monde, sait que cette paix  n’est définitive que si elle est juste et globale. La paix au Moyen-Orient ne sera juste et durable que si elle est  globale -je le répète - et si les tentatives visant à isoler le Liban et la Syrie se poursuivent, il est à craindre que  cette paix morcelée ne sème le vent et ne récolte la tempête.
(25.7) Forts de notre expérience et devant les mutations qualitatives qui marquent l’avènement du XXIe siècle,  nous savons, nous Libanais, peut-être mieux que d’autres, que pour lever les inquiétudes que nous partageons  tous, il convient avant tout de lutter contre le langage réducteur qui fleurit ici et là dans le monde et qui consiste à  étiqueter l’homme en fonction de son appartenance confessionnelle ou religieuse, à réduire ses sentiments à la  peur, sa conscience à une idéologie et à des systèmes de pensée fermés ; à réduire la puissance créatrice à l’action  politique professionnelle fâchée avec la morale ; à réduire l’attention portée à la société à la soif de pouvoir ; à  dissoudre le droit dans la force ou le pouvoir absolu ; à réduire l’humanité, fondée sur la vitalité des peuples, la  diversité des cultures et la créativité, à une morne uniformité.
(25.8) La “culture de la paix”, qui constitue la mission originelle de l’UNESCO, est toujours un élément  fondamental, un climat indispensable que nous nous devons tous de renforcer afin de contrecarrer cette  simplification abusive qui dénature l’universel et lui substitue l’uniforme. Je ne prétends pas que le Liban aurait,  de tous les pays, le monopole de l’ouverture sur les cultures, de la fécondation interculturelle, de la diversité  enrichissante ou du respect de la différence. Il y a peu, Fellini remarquait que “l’image est le cinéma, que la  lumière est l’image et qu’il suffit de quatre projecteurs pour tout crker . ..une suggestion, une émotion...“. Alors,  imaginons, Mesdames et Messieurs, ce que serait cette émotion ou cette suggestion, pour ne pas dire le septième  art lui-même, si le créateur n’avait à sa disposition qu’un projecteur manié d’une main de fer et dont l’éclairage  unique ne donnerait qu’un seul angle, une seule perspective ? Et qu’adviendrait-il si la création fellinienne elle-  même, ravalée au rang de marchandise, était retirée de la circulation sous l’effet des règles du marché et des  caprices de la consommation ? Pour la création, la liberté et la diversité sont un souffle de vie alors que  l’uniformité est mortelle. Les cultures, comme les hommes, se découvrent par le voyage et l’interaction.
(25.9) A cet égard, notre assemblée qui réunit tant de cultures n’est-elle pas en soi un magnifique voyage à  travers le monde entier, dans la mesure où l’identité de chaque peuple est respectée ; dans la mesure où l’on  n’oubliera pas que notre première richesse, ici, est notre diversité, à nous qui participons, en toute équité, à un  dialogue démocratique respectueux de chaque effort et de chaque réflexion.
(25.10) Pour renouer les fils de ce dialogue démocratique, ce dialogue des civilisations, il n’est meilleure  enceinte que l’UNESCO. Par la nature même de ses pn%ccupations culturelles, éducatives et scientifiques, par  son mode d’action fondé sur l’échange et le dialogue entre les cultures, loin des tiraillements et des passions  politiques, l’UNESCO est le pilier le plus sûr de l’Organisation des Nations Unies et de son action en faveur de la  paix et des droits de l’homme dans le monde. A cet égard, le Liban se réjouit à l’idée du retour des Etats-Unis  d’Amérique et du Royaume-Uni au sein de l’UNESCO où ils assumeront à nouveau leurs responsabilités,  apportant un renfort certain tant à l’Organisation qu’au système des Nations Unies dans son ensemble.
(25.11) Pour renforcer ce dialogue et notre Organisation, permettez-moi, à l’occasion de la proclamation de  l’Année internationale de la tolérance, de vous soumettre, au nom du Liban, une proposition, tendant à demander  à l’UNESCO de créer un centre de dialogue des cultures à Beyrouth, ville multiconfessionnelle par excellence.  NOUS tenons à saluer ici l’aide efficace de l’UNESCO pour la réhabilitation des hauts lieux de cette cite. Le Liban  accueillerait volontiers un tel centre dont les divers programmes et activites d’étude et de recherche scientifiques,  artistiques et culturelles auraient pour objet de lancer et d’organiser des dialogues approfondis sur toute question  de nature à favoriser le développement de nos sociétés arabes et des autres sociétés. Participeraient à ces  dialogues les cultures du monde entier et cet enrichissant échange de vues contribuera peut-être à l’émergence  d’une conscience universelle qui renforcera les valeurs de paix, de justice, de démocratie et de liberté dans ce  monde nouveau que nous appelons de nos voeux. Si nous proposons d’accueillir un tel centre c’est que le Liban s’y  prête de par sa civilisation particulière. N’est-il pas, en effet, au confluent de plusieurs religions, civilisations et  cultures et un heu d’échange entre elles ?
(25.12) Monsieur le Président, l’atrocité de la guerre fait que nous, au Liban, et plus que jamais auparavant,  attachons le plus haut prix à la solidarité internationale afin que le rouge continue de colorer les pétales des fleurs  et les joues de nos enfants au lieu de souiller nos murs et nos rues. C’est à cela que nous devons tous ensemble  oeuvrer, dans le monde entier. Nous devons et pouvons travailler ensemble. On ne peut mieux dire que Léon  l’Africain, un homme à la dimension universelle, parlant sous la plume de l’écrivain libanais, Amin Maalouf : “De  ma bouche, tu entendras l’arabe, le turc, le castillan, le berbère, l’hébreu, le latin et l’italien vulgaire, car toutes les  langues, toutes les prières m’appartiennent. Mais je n’appartiens à aucune. Je ne suis qu’à Dieu et à la terre, et  c’est à eux qu’un jour prochain je reviendrai.”
(25.13) Monsieur le Président, le Liban, heureux du retour en sa capitale du Bureau régional de l’UNESCO pour  les Etats arabes, entend coopérer avec cette Organisation pour répandre et renforcer la culture de la paix dans sa  région et dans le monde, la culture des droits de l’homme, de la démocratie et de la liberté, celle de la tolérance,  du respect d’autrui et du respect de la différence, celle, enfin, du dialogue et de la communication. Cette mission a  été une constante dans l’existence du Liban et elle est le fondement de sa pérennité et de son ouverture sur le  monde. Aussi le Liban apprécie-t-il le souci qu’a l’UNESCO de la préservation du patrimoine mondial et de la  protection des vestiges, et l’intérêt particulier qu’elle porte aux sites archéologiques, naturels et historiques de  notm pays, car ils font partie du patrimoine mondial de l’humanité.
(25.14) Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de rendre un hommage particulier au Directeur général,  M. Federico Mayor, de lui dire l’estime du Liban pour ses efforts, son activité remarquable, la perspicacité avec  laquelle il a su faire de l’UNESCO un moteur de la pensée et de la création culturelle pour l’humanité entière en  créant notamment la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle et la Commission mondiale de  la culture et du développement. Le gouvernement libanais a soutenu M. Mayor car il savait que l’Organisation  sous sa direction serait sur la bonne voie, au service de tous les peuples.
(25.15) Monsieur le Président, je voudrais également vous féliciter à l’occasion de votre élection à la présidence  de la vingt-septième session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je suis convaincu que votre vaste culture et  votre sens aigu des relations humaines sont une garantie de succès pour cette Conférence. Pour finir, je tiens à  souligner notre engagement en tant que peuple et Etat dans la marche de l’humanité vers le progrès, dans un esprit  d’ouverture, de communication et de solidarité entre les peuples. Je sais que ces objectifs sont ceux-là même de  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now 1 cal1 on H.E. Mr Guner Ismail, Minister of Culture and head of the delegation of the  former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
27.1 Mr ISMAIL (the former Yugoslav RepubIic of Macedonia) (Statement delivered in Macedonian;  English translation provided by the delegation):  Ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular pleasure to address you from the platfotm of the General  Conference of UNESCO, on behaIf of the Government of the RepubIic of Macedonia, the 175th member of  UNESCO, a State independent for more than two years now and one which takes as one of its principal  justifications of its being the Charter of the United Nations and the operative mechanisms of that  Organization - its General Assembly, the Security Council, as well as its Specialized Agencies. UNESCO is  one of these agencies and our attention is intensely focused on its activities.
27.2 The Republic of Macedonia is a State which suffers grave traumas caused by the dislocation of the  bipolar world, and which, thanks to its policy based on patience, tolerance, insistence on dialogue and its
5  unliiited belief in modem, democratic mechanisms, manages to avoid the whirlpools of war raging in some of  the territories of the former Yugoslavia. We have always emphasized our heartfelt grief that the voice of  wisdom coming from us has not been listened to by the participants in the Yugoslav conflicts, and that as a  result, violence was chosen, which was, of course, something we could not accept. And now, a small State  specific for its multi-ethnie and multi-cultural composition, and its huge historical inheritance, meaning - and 1  have to emphasize this - that ethnie and confessional wars never occurred in Macedonia - this small State is  undergoing serious economic difficulties resulting from its strict respect for resolutions 757 and 820 of the  Security Council, and also from the denial of our sovereignty and policy by some of our neighbours.
27.3 We are thoroughly aware that here in the Balkans, hysterical reminiscences of the historical past cari  lead to bloodshed; and we are also well aware that only the road enlightened by the mechanisms and  endeavours of the United Nations Will enable us to truly turn to ourselves, to what has been our millennial  identity, that is to say to what has been the articulation of this identity through culture, science and education.
27.4 In this sense 1 would like to underline that UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995  sufficiently addresses the SO-called small (in the largest sense of the Word) cultures, and that we highly  appreciate the accent placed on the regional programmes, seen particularly as a field where ecological issues  could be resolved and as an opportunity for neighbouring countries to tum towards issues of vital importance  for the survival of our Motber Nature, our dwelling place. In this context, 1 would like to draw your attention to  the proposals offered by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, and to ask you for your support and  understanding for our position.
27.5 We expect a lot from the general endeavours of UNESCO to cherish and preserve the cultural and  educational identity of small communities - States. Despite ail the difficulties encountered, the Republic of  Macedonia spends more than a quarter of its total budget on the protection and preservation of its cultural  heritage, and thus, on its future - its creative forces, education and science. We do this because we believe in it,  because this is not only something which helps us to protect ourselves in the most humane way, but also  because we are of the opinion that the future of the world Will be secured only if everyone’s right to existence is  articulated through the utmost achievements and values of the spirit, and if it is fully supported and guaranteed.
27.6 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to draw your attention to an anachronism which is  completely at variante with the spirit of the United Nations and of UNESCO. My country, the Republic of  Macedonia, has been mentioned here by a name that it was provisionally given. My country, the Republic of  Macedonia, denied the right to raise its flag, was discriminated against and humiliated at the flag-raising  ceremony for the new Member States of UNESCO which took place here on Monday, 25 October. 1 would like  to ask you not to let the methods of diktat and pre-condition cause damage to the identity of my country and the  right to citizenship. In this context 1 would like to ask you for your help and support. We have full  understanding of the difficulties of the Administration of UNESCO; but, please once again, let us practise the  Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of UNESCO. These are our credentials.
27.7 Expressing once again my strong belief in these principles, 1 would like to thank you on behalf of the  Government of the Republic of Macedonia for your attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now 1 cal1 on the Honourable Mr Stan Mudenge, MP, Minister of Higher Education and  head of the delegation of Zimbabwe.
29.1 Mr MUDENGE (Zimbabwe):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me on behalf of the delegation of Zimbabwe to  congratulate Mr Sayyad on his election to the presidency of the twenty-seventh session of the General  Conference. My delegation also wishes to extend its welcome and fratemal greetings to the members who have  just joined the Organization - this world house of a11 cultures, SO that we cari create, together, a new design for  the future - a future of peace, progress and prosperity for ah. 1 am confident that Mr Sayyad’s skill and  experience Will enable us to complete the important tasks that have brought us together in an atmosphere of  mutual respect and co-operation.
29.2 Mr President, 1 further take this opportunity to express Zimbabwe’s appreciation of the enormous  ‘amount of work done by the Director-General, the Secretariat and the Executive Board in preparing this  session. 1 wish in particular to congratulate the Director-General for coming up with a bold and innovative  Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995. We note that draft document 27 CL5 has been prepared and is  going to be implemented under very special political, social and economic circumstances, and against the
147    background of the reform of the United Nations system and the need for UNESCO to redefine its goals and  areas of responsibility before the expiry of the third Medium-Term Plan, within the context of development as  an integrated, endogenous, sustainable and equitable process mat is human-centred. Furthermore, the changing  socio-political scene in Southern Africa, the restructuring of Central and Eastern Europe, world recession and  reduced resources dictate that UNESCO’s roles and activities be oriented to tope with the new requirements and  realities.
29.3 Mr President, ever since independence in 1980, the Govemment of Zimbabwe bas committed itself to a  policy of growth with equity and has recognized that a crucial element in this nation-building process is the  development of human resources through education and training. It bas accordingly, over the years, invested  very heavily in education provision and programmes, and in spite of very severe economic constraints and  problems, education has remained the largest single item of govemment expenditure throughout - a clear  demonstration of the importance that is attached to education by Zimbabwe.
29.4 However, our efforts have tended to be in the area of formal schooling, with the primary school having  a monopoly in basic education. Other programmes of education, for example pre-school, literacy, distance and  continuing education and various other non-foi-mal avenues of basic education which provide alternative,  perhaps second-chance approaches for those who cannot afford the costs of conventional schooling have SO far  been given little attention or resources. The result is that at present there are still several thousands of children  of school age, particularly girls, who do not have access to education because of financial, cultural and other  impediinents. In addition, close to two million adults, especially women, are functionally illiterate. Within the  education system there are large numbers of teachers, pre-school and literacy tutors and other non-forma1  cadres who are unqualified or under-qualified. Additionally there are thousands of heads, heads of  departments, education offïcers, managers and supervisors who may have considerable on-the-job experience  but who do no1 have appropriate professional qualifications.
29.5 Mr President, Zimbabwe, like many other developing countries, bas realized that, notwithstanding its  commitment to the goal of education for all by the year 2000, there is no way, particularly in the present  economic climate, that this Will be achieved through conventional approaches. In such circumstances, the only  possible solution is to look seriously at and adopt alternative, innovative and more cost-effective strategies to  increase access and training opportunities for those who need them. Non-formal strategies and programmes,  particularly distance and open learning systems, properly planned, manned and administered, cari make a  significant contribution towards alleviating the problem of access, equity and especially cost. Zimbabwe has  therefore initiated a variety of distance education programmes, including the introduction of a bachelor of  education degree for practising primai-y school administrators which was launched in August this year. But  this lledgling programme must be given financial and material as well as technical hacking. My delegation  therefore appeals to the Director-General of UNESCO to support this major initiative.
29.6 Ziibabwe’s rapid and massive educational expansion in the formal sector bas been phenomenal. The  government is vigorously addressing such issues as content, the relevance and quality of education, as well as  learning outcomes. In order that the curriculum Will increasingly reflect local, national and regional realities,  more serious attempts must be made to provide a scient& and technical type of education where the  curriculum, especially at secondary level, is vocationalized and where technical, commercial and agricultural  subjects are offered, SO that Young people and the adults of tomorrow are adequately prepared for both  citizenship and the world of work. My government is appreciative of the support given by the Director-General  in areas suc11 as UNITWIN, UNEVOC, the UNESCO chair in chemical engineering and the pilot project on  textbook provisions and reading materials. Mr President, 1 am pleased to inform this august body that the  Southein African Development Community (SADC), with the assistance of UNESCO, has taken a major  initiative in co-ordinating its education systems SO as to develop a coherent approach. We are determined to do  away with piecemeal approaches to common problems because this is wasteful and depletes our meagre  resources. The agenda for action is a broad one, including the need to harmonize our curricula and develop a  common examination system. Thus the proposals in Major Programme Area 1 bave the support of the  Government of Zimbabwe.
29.7 Mr President, considering the importance of high-ievel manpower for economic development, my  delegation endorses Major Programme Area II on Science for progress and the environment. We consider this  programme critical to socio-economic development based on the wise use of our natural resources. This  programme also supports UNCED’s Agenda 21 which promotes susminable use and development of all our  natural resources. It recognizes our interdependence on these natural resources and the environment.
29.8 In 1992, our region experienced the worst drought in living memory. We suffered serious shortages of  water, power and food, since ail these commodities depend on the weather. The result was that energy and food
5  were scarce and very little water was available for man, beast and plants. My delegation therefore appeals to  UNESCO to help us in our water conservation. Mindful of the low level of energy supply and infrastructure  existing in developing countries, especially in the Africa region, and noting that energy technology forms the  main technical driving force for the promotion of the development of nations, we commend the Director-  General’s effort to create an international fund to implement projects geared to the technological development  of countries of the Africa region. The Priority: Africa programme bas helped in university govemance and  administration but much still remains to be done before the programme cari be judged to have been a success.  Its resource base bas been scanty and programmes inexact, leading to general dissatisfaction. Zimbabwe  welcomes the suggestion that Priority: Africa programme activities Will in future be designed by the African  Member States themselves. The National Commissions and planning bodies in our respective regions are ready  to make the programme a success. Our concerns are still to a large extent to do with development. Sustainable  development in harmony with the enviromnent is less meaningful to poor nations if there are no strategies to  address their immediate needs. This is why we fully support UNESCO initiatives through such programmes as  UNITWIN, UNESCO chairs and enviromnent and natural resources management. My delegation considers the  subprogramme on ‘science, technology and society’ very essential, especially for the developing countries and  we recommend its continuation together with the publication Impact of Science on Society, which provides  useful information where research results are limited.
29.9 Mr President, at this juncture allow me to indicate briefly the bold step recently taken by the  Govemment of Zimbabwe to make prudent use of the tools of science and technology in the promotion of  susminable national development. Zimbabwe, which subscribes to the universal acknowledgement of the  critical importance of science and technology to development, has committed $45 million which is the total cost  to establish a scient& and industrial research and development centre at a 65-hectare site near Harare. Donor  contributions Will be sought in the training of research staff and provision of laboratory equipment for its
15 different institutes. The project was designed with the environment very much to the fore, and most of the  activities of the centre Will be promoting clean technologies. The launch of the project, whose implications Will  extend beyond the borders of Zimbabwe, represents one of the most exciting developments in our country since  independence and indeed in the SADC region. 1 wish to appeal to UNESCO and others to assist us in  promoting this project. Our region needs to shift from trading primary agticultural and other raw commodities  to trading in goods and services developed from technology-led production systems. This cari be achieved if we  establish an appropriate technology acquisition system. As of now, the Danish Government Will be sponsoring  the energy institute, the Dutch Govermnent the biotechnology institute and the German Government the  enviromnent and remote-sensing institute and the metrology centre at the Harare Centre 1 have just mentioned.
29.10 Mr President, UNESCO bas a responsibility to perform a catalytic role in the process of technology  transfer and dissemination, and should empower the developing countries in building up local capability to  Select, adapt and eventually develop the technology. Zimbabwe commends the Director-General of UNESCO  for convening the World Solar Summit and for taking on board the energy component as its legitimate area of  competence, for promoting the application of solar energy as well as other renewables; and setting in motion  the process of launching the World Solar Decade (1995-2005). A strong political and economic initiative  focusing on renewable energy applications in developing countries is required. As a Young nation, Zimbabwe  bas an open mind about new ideas. We have an agenda to open all Windows to permit information to corne in  and to view the world outside. Preparation for the 1995 Solar World Congress to be held in Harare has reached  an advanced stage. Zimbabwe is committed to the promotion and development of solar energy and other  renewable fonns of energy for rural development. The 1995 Congress Will provide an opportunity for sharing  information and possibly for the launching of the World Solar Decade. UNESCO is kindly requested to  schedule and support this important initiative.
29.11 Mr President, the state of the planet’s environment is a reflection of our values and attitudes. It is  therefore a truism that the state of the environment is to an important extent a reflection of the suite of our  culture. The indusuialized world is the source of most alterations in the biosphere. In the developing  countries, the problems of environmental degradation are most acute but damage cari still be prevented through  judicious use of the environment for sustainable development. But a world economy that transforms developing  countries into exporters of capital to rich nations necessarily implies destruction of the environment and  resources on which developing countries depend for their future. Tropical fores& for example - SO important in  the preservation of biodiversity and the life cycle itself - are threatened by wanton destruction as poor countries  harvest them to sel1 the wood or open more land for agriculture SO that they cari eam more money in order to  pay their debts to, or import manufactured goods from, the North. Each time a species, be it a tree or herb or  grass, is destroyed completely we are a11 the poorer for it, for who knows, locked in its secrets may be the cure  for AIDS, cancer or some suc11 incurable disease. Our indigenous forests are like libraries to us. When we  destroy them wantonly we are no diiferent from those who destroyed the Ancient Library of Alexandria. But
149    unless we cari bring about a more just and equitable world economic regime our common future Will hang in  balance.
29.12 Mr President, another area of concem to Zimbabwe and indeed to the entire subregion, is the need to  further develop indigenous African languages. We have noted the truism that language is the ultiite  expression of a people’s political, social, economic and cultural experience. In short, language is the  embodiment of ,culture. The myopie view that some people speak languages while others speak only dialects  lias been brutally exposed by recent world events, which have shifted the accent from this narrow and  ethnocentric perspective to a broader vision that bas enabled humanity to explore ail forms of human  experience. In Zimbabwe, as elsewhere in the world today, we recognize the need to bring indigenous African  languages into the realm of everyday occupation in science and technology, in business and other forms of  officiai discourse.
29.13 Mr President, turning to Major Programme Area V on social and human sciences, Zimbabwe supports  the thrust to promote institutional development, research and information, peace, and the elimination of ail  forms of discrimination. We strongly recommend to the Director-General to support and improve educational  and training opportunities in South Africa, which has suffered SO much from the apartheid policies.  Furthermore, we urge UNESCO to improve the status of women and address the problems of youth in the  Southem Africa region. However, we observe that the Harare UNESCO Subregional Off~ice has no budgetary  allocation to implement proposed activities under the transverse themes: women and ~011th; and yet UNESCO  provides this important input in other offices. Conceming women’s issues, my delegation is satisfied with  UNESCO policy which accords high priority to propos& designed to enhance the status and advancement of  women. Zimbabwe abides by the United Nations Charter on many other issues related to women and has  ratilied the Convention on the Elimination of Al1 Forms of Discrimination against Women.
29.14 Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform measures instituted by the Director-General  after the withdrawal of some members convince us that the Organization% goals have not diverged from the  original ideals as set out by the founding fathers. We therefore appeal to the govemments of those members to  reconsider their position. For as T.S. Eliot enjoins us in the chorus from ‘The Rock’: ‘And ail that is il1 you  may repair if you walk together .., and all that was good you must fight to keep with hearts as devoted as those  of your fathers who fought to gain it’,
29.15 Mr President, UNESCO is the only competent international organization in the lïelds of education,  science, social science, culture and communication. The agenda for action is ever-expanding and we need to  redouble our efforts to work collectively to overcome the universal problems that confront mankind, and  together, create a new design for the future - a future with a human face. The world needs UNESCO and we  wish the Director-General and the Secretariat every success in executing the mandate of the Organization  during the next biennium. Thank you, Mr President.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now 1 cal1 on the last speaker for this morning, H.E. Mr Ahmed Djebbar, Minister of  National Education and head of the delegation of Algeria.
(31.1) M. DJEBBAR (Algérie) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je souhaite, tout d’abord, vous présenter, Monsieur le  Erésident, au nom de la délégation algérienne, mes félicitations les plus sincères et les plus chaleureuses pour  votre élection à la présidence de la vingt-septième session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je voudrais  aussi féliciter le Directeur général pour le travail considérable accompli durant son mandat. Il n’a pas ménagé ses  efforts pour que cette prestigieuse Organisation réponde aux espoirs placés en elle par les Etats membres  confrontes aux grands défis de cette dernière décennie du XXe siècle. Je voudrais également, et au nom de mon  pays, remercier vivement M. Federico Mayor pour sa prise de position ferme et claire contre le terrorisme dont  sont victimes les enseignants, 6crivains et journalistes algériens. Je profite également de l’occasion pour  renouveler au Directeur général le soutien de mon pays pour la poursuite de l’oeuvre qu’il a commencée.
(31.2) Monsieur le Président, l’UNESCO, à l’instar des autres organisations internationales, a été créée pour  aider à l’émergence d’un esprit de communauté parmi tous les êtres humains par-delà leurs différences. Ce rôle  reste, bien évidemment, d’une actualité cruciale à une époque qui se caractérise par de grands bouleversements  tant dans les domaines socio-économiques que dans ceux des sciences et des techniques. Les grands espoirs  suscites par la fin de la guerre froide ont été tempérés par la montée des conflits ethniques et des antagonismes  locaux et par la persistance de la crise économique mondiale qui ne fait que creuser encore plus le fossé séparant  le Nord du Sud.
(31.3) Parallèlement, la prise de conscience d‘une communauté de destin de toute l’humanité s’est concrétisée  par l’adoption de principes en faveur de certains domaines, comme celui de l’environnement. Jl faut consolider ces  principes et étendre cette prise de conscience à d’autres domaines. En particulier, il convient d’aborder dans le
5  même esprit les diverses entraves au développement économique et culturel, notamment le problème de  l’endettement, ceux de la faim et de l’analphabétisme et ceux liés au développement socio-économique d’une  manière générale. L’optique tendant à favoriser la collaboration entre Etats et entre communautés intellectuelles  et scientifiques nous paraît très positive. Nous sommes également très favorables a la réalisation de projets  conjoints à diverses échelles (mondiale, kgionale, sous-régionale) ainsi qu’au principe de la décentralisation. Sur  ce dernier point, une évaluation minutieuse nous paraît néanmoins nécessaire avant une extension de cette  politique. Par ailleurs, le principe de la planification à moyen terme permet de définir des orientations générales  en fiant un cadre plus adapté que celui du plan biennal. La proposition d’une approche plus souple de la  planification et de la mise en oeuvre des programmes, consistant à maintenir la période sexennale tout en  réservant la possibilité d’ajustements partiels en cas de besoin, nous paraît la plus intéressante.
(31.4) Monsieur le Président, l’Algérie possède une population jeune et, malgrk une conjoncture économique  difficile, elle continue de consacrer des moyens importants à l’éducation et à la formation, puisque le budget de  I’education nationale atteindra, en 1994,38 8 du budget total de l’Etat. Cependant, en dépit des efforts incessants  déployés depuis l’indépendance en faveur de l’éducation dans les zones rurales, de la scolarisation des filles, de la  lutte contre l’analphabétisme et de la formation des formateurs, les résultats obtenus ne sont pas à la hauteur des  espérances. Par ailleurs, une kflexion est eugagée, depuis un an, sur une reforme du système éducatif algérien et  ce, dans le but de corriger les graves dysfonctionnements qui le caractérisent aujourd’hui et pour le préparer à  répondre aux défis du XXIe siècle. Aussi L’Algérie participe-t-elle à fond aux activités du champ majeur de  programme sur l’éducation et l’avenir, en particulier, en particulier au programme “L’éducation pour le  XXIe siècle”. Elle souhaite participer activement aux activités dans ces domaines ainsi que dans celui de la  jeunesse. Dans cet esprit, l’Algérie a apprécié les résultats du Congrès international sur l’éducation en matière de  population et le développement, qui s’est déroulé à Istanbul en avril 1993, et nous comptons intégrer les  conclusions de ce Congres dans notre réflexion sur le contenu de la réforme du système éducatif.
(31.5) Notre réflexion sur le système éducatif s’étend également aux domaines de l’enseignement supérieur et  de la recherche. Nous soutenons les actions proposées dans le cadre du programme relatif à la science pour le  progrès et l’environnement. Mon pays est très sensible aux problèmes énergétiques, en particulier ceux concernant  les énergies renouvelables. Nous avons proposé qu’une attention plus grande soit accordée à ce domaine et que la  priorité soit donnée à l’énergie solaire en raison de ses différents impacts sur l’environnement et sur le  développement de pays généralement pauvres en énergies classiques. Nous soutenons le programme proposé pour  la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale et les questions liées aux sciences de la mer, mais nous  pensons que sa concrétisation nécessite un renforcement qualitatif et quantitatif des capacités scientifiques des  pays en développement en matière de recherche océanographique. Pour cela, il nous semble nécessaire de  multiplier les ateliers de formation au niveau régional et de développer les réseaux régionaux.
(31.6) Monsieur le Président, les problèmes que vit, aujourd’hui, la société algérienne sont l’aboutissement d’un  processus économique et politique caractérisé par un grand déficit culturel qui a mis en danger l’identité de cette  société et qui a failli fermer, lune après l’autre, toutes les fenêtres ouvertes sur les cultures du monde. Partant de  ce constat, nous souhaitons une aide de l’UNESCO pour dresser un inventaire du patrimoine culturel national et  nous suggérons, à l’occasion de l’achèvement de la nouvelle bibliothèque nationale, de définir des actions  communes en vue de nous doter des moyens indispensables à la préservation et à la diffusion de la production  culturelle. Dans le même temps, l’Algérie est prête à soutenir et à tirer parti du programme relatif au patrimoine  mondial et approuve l’importance accordée aux identités culturelles et au dialogue interculturel. Dans ce cadre,  l’Algérie propose un projet de résolution concernant la protection du patrimoine mobilier mondial présentant un  intérêt universel. Cette résolution vise à la sauvegarde, en particulier dans les pays du Sud, des collections de  plus en plus nombreuses qui s’entassent dans les musées et les réserves.
(31.7) En Algérie, depuis l’instauration du pluralisme politique en 1989, le domaine de la communication a  subi d’importants changements, en particulier en ce qui concerne les médias écrits. Une presse indépendante et  diversifiée est diffusée quotidiennement malgré les difficultés matérielles liées essentiellement à la situation  économique. Nous sommes favorables à la libre circulation des idées par le mot, par l’image et par l’écrit. Mais,  sur le terrain, cette liberté est freinée par la faiblesse des moyens financiers, en particulier lorsqu’il s’agit de la  mise en place de médias audiovisuels. C’est pourquoi l’Algérie t’affirme son soutien aux principes et aux objectifs  arrêtes par l’UNESCO dans les domaines de la communication et de l’information.
(31.8) L’Algérie est persuadée des impacts positifs que les technologies de l’information peuvent avoir sur son  développement. Elle a déployé des efforts importants pour la mise en place de structures concernant  l’informatique et les sciences de l’information. Elle souhaite que, dans le programme proposé par l’UNESCO, des  efforts particuliers soient faits dans les domaines du génie logiciel et des réseaux de communication. L’Algérie se  propose d’être plus présente dans les activités du champ majeur de programme sur la communication,  I’information et l’informatique.
(31.9) Nous considérons que la médiocrité des établissements d’enseignement, de formation et de recherche  dans le domaine des sciences humaines et des sciences sociales est une des causes qui ont contribué à la  détérioration de la situation en Algérie. C’est la raison pour laquelle l’Algérie souhaite avoir une préSenCe  marquée dans le dernier champ majeur de programme, qui concerne les sciences sociales et humaines, et elle  soutient les propositions faites à ce sujet dans le Projet de programme et de budget, en particulier la création d’un  programme de recherche en sciences sociales.
(31.10) En ce qui concerne la question des “droits de l’homme”, nous tenons à souligner I’importance d’une  vision globale intégrant, dans une relation d’interdépendance et d’indivisibilité, le droit des citoyens et des peuples  à l’exercice à la fois des droits civiques et politiques et des droits economiques, sociaux et culturels. Le caractère  indissociable des deux catégories de droits gagnerait, à notre sens, à trouver sa double expression dans la  formulation des axes de travail proposés dans le Projet de programme.
(31.11) Monsieur le Président, nous sommes persuadés que l’évolution de la situation au Proche-Orient et en  Afrique du Sud augure de développements positifs pour les peuples de ces régions. En particulier, nous serions  heureux que la Palestine accède au rang de membre de cette prestigieuse Organisation. Nous sommes sûrs qu’elle  pourra ainsi, dans le cadre de ses futures activités, contribuer eflïcakement au traitement du dossier de la ville  d’Al-Qods, carrefour et symbole de la cohabitation pacifique des religions monothéistes et haut lieu du patrimoine  culturel universel.
(31.12) Je ne terminerai pas, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et  Messieurs, sans vous dire toute la confiance que met mon pays dans les actions de l’UNESCO en faveur de  l’échange et de l’enrichissement culturel et sans renouveler mes remerciements à l’Organisation et à son Directeur  général, M. Federico Mayor, pour le soutien ferme et clair qu’il a exprimé à l’égard de nos intellectuels, écrivains  et journalistes en ces moments difficiles que traverse notre pays.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We shah meet again at 3 p.m. this aftemoon. Thank you very much for your patience.  La sCance est lev& a 13 h.55  The meeting rose at 1.55 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 13.55