Trentikme séance plénière
15 novembre 1993, à 10 h.20  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémeu)  Thirtieth plenary meeting
15 HOR6PII 19% r.-B 10.20  HpencegaTenb: T-H CAWr,Q (HeMeH)
887    ELECTION DES MEMBRES DES COMITES DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE POUR  LA VINGT-HUITIEME SESSION ET ELECTION DE MEMBRES D’AUTRES ORGANES  (points 14.2 à 14.15)  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE COMMI’ITEES OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  FOR THE TWENTY-EIGHTH SESSION AND ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF OTHER  BODIES (items 14.2 to 14.15)  ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LOS COMITES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  EN SU 28” REUNION Y ELECCION DE LOS MIEMBROS DE OTROS ORGANOS  (puntos 14.2 a 14.15)  BMBOPM YJIEHOB KOMHTETOB I’EHEPAJIbHOfi KOHQEPEHLWI  flJIR ABAJJLJATb BOCbMOfi CECCHEI kl BbIIjOPbI WIEHOB APYI?EIX  OPFAHOB (IIYHKTH c 14.2 no 14.15)  +SI, h-13 lucIl i~&Ll fWl J.a+.u qïJI ;jLuI CL&1 +A  (\f,\O dl \L,Y * J&I) U$t WC+ 2 CLAC1  ~~k~~=tl\~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~~~~~~
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Good moming, ladies and gentlemen. With your permission, 1 now declare the thirtieth plenary meeting  of the General Conference open. As you are aware, we are going to consider during this meeting the second report  of the Nominations Committee. Before you are items 14.2 to 14.15 of the agenda, which deal with the election of  Members of the Committees and of other bodies. 1 would ask you to look at document 27 C/156, which contains  the second report of the Nominations Committee in this respect. 1 would also remind you that there is a correction  to this document with reference to 27 C/l56 COIT.
(1.2) 1 shall now give the floor to Mr Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, who will present  the Committee’s report.
2.1 Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, 1 would like to make a small, formal correction to the preambular phrase in the  paragraphs conceming items 14.4 to 14.13, and 14.15. In the interest of accuracy, 1 would ask for the words  ‘the following composition for’ to be deleted and replaced by ‘the election of the following Member States to’,  because the full composition of those bodies is, of course, larger, and is not indicated here. Thank you.
2.2 Mr President, 1 would like to say that even though the task of the Nominations Committee seemed  formidable, and despite the setbacks in our proceedings, we did get through it. As its Chairperson, 1 was  particularly heartened by the keenness and willingness on the part of SO many Member States to serve in the  various bodies and thus to play a fuller part in the Organization; this was one thing that 1 found very heartening  and 1 do hope that the interest Will be maintained.
2.3 One other aspect of the Committee’s work is, 1 think, already taken tare of, and is going to be handled  by the Executive Board: 1 refer of course to the placement of the new Member States in the diiferent electoral  groups, which Will affect the allocation of seats in the various bodies in the future.
2.4 Now, Mr President, two or three other things that we might perhaps think about in the Executive  Board relate to the general process of these elections. Firstly, with some 15 bodies to compose, and with such  eagemess to serve, 1 do believe that the electoral process itself needs streamlining: we Iive in a mechanized  age; and 1 am sure that in basic matters like the counting of votes, fresh technology could be brought in. More  importantly, 1 think that there should be a deadline for the submission of candidatures; this does not exist at  present. If the lists were closed at least a week, say, before the elections, it would help. 1 also think that the  scheduling of meetings of the Nominations Committee is important: quite a few of the Member States have  very small delegations, and by the time we get down to the processing of nominations we fïnd that a good many
30  of the Member States cannot be present - perhaps because they just do not have the funds to stay for long or  because they have just one delegate hurrying around trying to caver SO many commissions and committees.
2.5 Mr President, 1 would be grateful if my observations on these issues are placed on record; and now 1  Will present the Committee’s recommendations.  Item 14.2 - Election Committee of the General Conference for the  twentv-eiohth session (27 C/NOM/3)
2.6 Mr President, the Nominations Committee recommends mat the following composition for the Legal  Committee be adopted: Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt,  France, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,  Sudan, Switzerland, Tunisia and Venezuela.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard Mr Thomas’ submission. We now have to consider the report he  has just made. Are we to endorse the report of the Nominations Committee?
(3.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(3.3) 1 give the floor back to Mr Thomas.  Item 14.3 - Election of members of the Headquarters Committee of the General Conference  for the twentv-eiphth session (27 C/NOM/4)
4. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, regarding item 14.3, the Committee recommends the following composition for the  Headquarters Committee: Algeria, Bangladesh, Benin, Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Côte d’ivoire,  Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Ghana, Honduras, Hungary, Iraq, Jamaica, Lithuania, Myanmar, Nepal,  Niger, Peru, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Togo, Turkey and Yemen. The recommendation is presented to the  General Conference for adoption.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas.
(5.2) Do you have any commet&?
(5.3) 1 do not see anyone wishing to comment. The part of the report dealing with this item is therefore  endorsed. . .
1 give the floor once again to Mr Thomas, who Will present the Committee’s report in respect of the next  Item 14.4 - Election of members of the Council of the International Bureau of Education (27 C/NOM/S)
6. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with regard to item 14.4, the Committee recommends that the  following Member States - 14 in ail - be elected to the Council of the International Bureau of Education (IBE):  Argentina, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Côte d’ivoire, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Hungary,  Malaysia, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. The recommendations are presented to the General Conference for  approval.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Are there any comments on the Committee’s report on the International Bureau  of Education?
(7.2) 1 do not see anyone wishing to comment and SO that part of the report dealing with this item is endorsed.
(7.3) 1 give the floor again to Mr Thomas, who Will present the Committee’s report on the next item.  Item 14.5 - Election of four members of the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible  for seeking the settlement of anv disnutes that mav ar se betwee  Convention aqainst Discrimination in Education (27 k/NOM/G;  States Parties to the
8. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. With regard to item 14.5, the Committee recommends the election of the  following representatives of Member States to the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for  seekiug the seulement of any disputes that may arise between States Parties to the Convention against  Discrimination in Education: MS Hilda Chen Apuy of Costa Rica; Mr Ali El-Hadi El-Hawat of the Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya and Mr Aristide Velompanahy of Madagascar. Incidentally, Mr President, we are one  member short here but we cari only have people in this Committee from Member States Parties to the Protocol  and, unless we have another volunteer, 1 am afraid we cari only present three instead of four. The  recommendations are, however, presentcd to the plenary for adoption. Thank you, Mr President.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. We a11 understand what you say.
(9.2) Are there any comments?
(9.3) 1 give the floor to the delegate of Côte d’ivoire.
10. M. KEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Président du Comité des candidatures pourrait-il nous dire quand  sera pourvu le siège ?î pourvoir et quelles sont les raisons pour lesquelles il n’a pas été pourvu ?
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’ivoire and give the floor to Mr Thomas.
12. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:
1 must explain that the only people who cari fil1 these seats are volunteers representing States Parties to  the Protocol setting up this Commission. Only a limited number of States meet this requirement and, if a  sufficient number of volunteers do not present themselves, there is nothing we cari do but recommend the ones  who bave corne forward.
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas.
(13.2) Ladies and gentlemen, that part of the report submitted by Mr Thomas is endorsed.
(13.3) 1 give the floor again to Mr Thomas, who Will present the Committee’s report on the next item.  Item 14.6 - El ’ \ mr f Inter n  Informatics Programme (27 C/NOM/7)
14. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, under item 14.6, the Committee recommends the election of the following Member  States to the Intergovernmental Committee for the Intergovemmental Informatics Programme: Argentina,  Belarus, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Finland, Gambia, Ghana, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Mauritania,  Netherlands, Peru, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Senegal and Spain.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas.
(15.2) Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse this part of the report?
(15.3) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(15.4) 1 give the floor to Mr Thomas, who will present the Nominations Committee’s report in respect of the  next item.  Item 14.7 - Election of members of the International Co-ordhuttino Council of t.he Programme on
16. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, under item 14.7 of the agenda, the Committee recommeuds the election of the following  Member States to the MAB Co-ordinating Council: Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Chad, Colombia,  Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Israel, Japan, Lebanon, Niger and Zambia.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Kuwait.
(18.1) Mr AL-ONAIZI (Kuwait) (Translation fiom me Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. Having heard the report by the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee on  the activities of the Committee, 1 would like to make the following clarification. Kuwait has put forward its  nomination for membership of a number of committees, namely, the International Bureau of Education, the  Intergovernmental Council of the General Information Programme, the International Co-ordinating Council of the  Programme on Man and the Biosphere and the Intergovernmental Council for Management of Social  Transformations. After the first ballot, it appeared that Egypt, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait were put forward  for membership of the International Bureau of Education. The first ballot also put both Saudi Arabia and Kuwait  through to the second ballot for membership of the General Information Programme.  ,
(18.2) Kuwait, wishing to display its solidarity with its Arab partners, withdrew its nomination for  membership of the International Bureau of Education in order to forestall any competition with Egypt, Saudi  Arabia or Oman. Kuwait also withdrew tiom the elections for membership of the General Information Programme  in favour of Saudi Arabia andthe Secretariat informed me Committee of this. We were therefore surprised during  the announcement of the final results and particularly the results of the elections for membership of the Co-  ordinating Council of the Programme on Man and the Biosphem when the Secretariat declared that Kuwait had  decided to withdraw. Once again, wishing to display its solidarity and particularly now that it is too late to cal1 for  a re-run of me elections, Kuwait has decided to withdraw on the condition that this is included in the final report.  Unfortunately, howevcr, pamgraph 4 of the Nominations Committe& report does not reflect what actually  occurred in the Committee. 1 ask that this be recorded and stated more clearly in terms of what actually.happened.  Thank you, Mr President.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Kuwait. We shall make tbis clear in the Verbatim records.
(19.2) Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore endorse the Committee’s report in this respect.
(19.3) 1 give the floor once again to Mr Thomas, who will present the Committee’s report on the next item.  Item 14.8 - Flecùon of p Cod  Propramme (27 C/NOIW9)
20. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, under item 14.8, the Committee recommends the election of the following Member  States to the Intergovernmental Council for the International Hydrological Programme: Austral& Botswana,  Cameroon, Chile, Egypt, Hungary, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Japan, Morocco, Peru,  Switzerland and Turkey.
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse this part of the report?
(21.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(21.3) 1 give the floor back to Mr Thomas, who wiIl continue with mis report.  Item 14.9 - Election of members of the Inme for Pro-  Cultural Property*ts Cou ntries . . of OriP . . . . . . m or its R-on m Cwriation
22. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Under item 14.9 - to which the Corrigendum to document 27 C/l% refers -  the Committee recommends the election of the following Member States to the Intergovemmental Committee  for Promoting the Retum of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit  Appropriation: Bangladesh, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Kuwait, Pem, Republic of Korea,  Sri Lanka and Zaire.  :&Jl Yr,\  r;i ùl sd *Y cb. -+JI I* J3 1 # (jl &cbbl ,iJlu& &lJ+.Jl Iii ‘LIyL3; -yJI Js&l  q X+l &a .MI lir .bï& & .- & C~JI : +Li iJ*dl @dl 9 -1
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. 1 would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to substitute Kuwait for Egypt and  make the correction in the documents you have in front of you. Kuwait instead of Egypt. Are we to endorse this  part of the report?
(23.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decidecl
(23.3) Mr Thomas, you have the floor.  Item 14.10 - Election of memhers of the Executive Committee of the International Campaigri for the  Estal&shment of the Nubia Mus ‘n Aswan & the National meum of Epuntian  ZliI-Q (27 C/Nohf/ll;
24. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Committee recommends the election to the Executive Committee of the International  Campaign for the Establishment of the Nubia Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian  Civilization in Cairo of the following 13 Member States: Argentina, Bangladesh, Belgium, Costa Rica, Czech  Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Ghana Greece, Sudan, Switzerland and Turkey.
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse this part of the report?
(25.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(25.3) Thank you. Mr Thomas, you have the floor.  Item 14.11 - Election of memhers of the ~vemmental Committee of the World Decade for  Cultural Developmenf (27 C/NAM112)
26. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you Mr President. With regard to the Intergovemmental Committee of the World Decade for  Cultural Development, the following 18 Member States are recommended by the Nominations Committee for  election to this body: Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Cameroon, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Italy, Malawi, Mexico,  Philippines, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Slovakia, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia and Uganda.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse this?
(27.2) 1 sec no objections. It is SO decided.
(27.3) Thank you. Mr Thomas, the floor is yours.
30  Item 14.12 - Election of mrs of the Intergoveme Cou@l of the Interuat&Wl Programme . .  for the DevWt of CO- (27 C/NOIW13)
28. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, under item 14.12 of the agenda, the Committee recommends the election of the  following Member States to the Intergovemmental Council of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC): China, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Japan,  Madagascar, Netherlands, Niger, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Thailand, Tunisia, Uruguay  and Venezuela.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any comments on the Intergovemmental  Council of the International Programme for the Development of Communication? Are we to endorse the report in  this respect?
(29.2) 1 do not see anyone who wishes to comment. It is SO decided.
(29.3) Thank you. Mr Thomas, you have the floor.  Item 14.13 - ’ ti f f  Programme (27 C/NOM/14)
30. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, under item 14.13 of the agenda, the Committee recommends the election of the  following Member States to the Intergovemmental Council of the General Information Programme: Austria,  Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, Ethiopia, France, Greece,  Honduras, Lithuania, Mozambique, Poland, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia and Thailand.
(31 .l) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any comments or shall we endorse the report  in respect of item 14.13?
(31.2) 1 sec no objections. It is SO decided.
(31.3) Thank you. 1 give the floor to Mr Thomas, who will present the report on the composition of the last  body.
32.1 Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. It has been explained in paragraph 8 of the report that no new elections to  the Intergovemmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport were to be held on this occasion since the  Statutes of that body had been suspended.  Item 14.15 - Election of meus of the mtal Council for M-ment of Social  Transformations (27 CYNOhU16)
32.2 With regard to item 14.15, the Committee recommends for election to the new Intergovemmental  Council for Management of Social Transformations the following 33 States: Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh,  Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Guinea,  India, Italy, Japan, Madagascar, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Russian Federation,  Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, are we to endorse what Mr Thomas has  indicated regarding this last body?
(33.2) 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
(33.3) We have now endorsed the report of the Nominations Committee on the composition of the committees  and councils. 1 see, however, that Lithuania has tequested the floor. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Lithuania.
34.1 Mme KARVELIS (Lituanie) :  Je voudrais faire une mise au point concernant le document 27 C/PLEN/DR.14, en précisant que je  suis habilitee à parler au nom des trois Etats baltes - Estonie, Lettonie et Lituanie. Le premier paragraphe du  dispositif de cette résolution stipule que la Conférence generale “d&cide que les Etats issus de la dissolution  d’Etats membres appartenant au groupe II rejoindront provisoirement le groupe électoral II”. Nous insistons une  fois de plus sur les deux faits suivants. Dune part, la très grande majorite des Etats membres de l’UNESCO  n’ont jamais reconnu l’occupation de l’Estonie, de la Lettonie et de la Lituanie par l’URSS, survenue en 1940 à  la suite du pacte Ribbentrop-Molotov. D’autre part, l’Estonie, la Lettonie et la Lituanie sont devenues membres  de l’UNESCO lors de la vingt-sixième session de la Conférence générale, en octobre 1991, en qualité d’Etats  souverains et indépendants. Or, a cette époque l’Union soviétique existait bel et bien. En consequence, aucun de  ces trois Etats ne saurait être considéré comme issu de la dissolution de l’URSS.
34.2 Par ailleurs, au nom de la seule Lituanie, je voudrais poser une question. Que serait-il advenu si la  même logique avait éte appliquée lorsque les Etats africains ont accéde à l’indépendance ? Il me semble qu’a ce  moment-là les anciennes colonies belges, britanniques et françaises auraient logiquement dû faire partie du  groupe 1. C’est pourquoi, une fois de plus, je déplore ce partage de l’Europe en deux, comme s’il y avait une  Europe légitime et une “autre Europe”, pour reprendre le mot de Czeslaw Milosz. Je vous remercie.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Lithuania. We have taken note of what you have said and shall include it in the  records. 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Russian Federation.
6JIaro~apaocTb ~pe@eJIaTeJIIo KOMIiTeTa IIO KaHJtnnaTypaM r-Hy ToMacy 3a Ty OI’POMHyIO  pa6oTy, KOTopyIO OH IIpOBeJI B IIepIIOJI PeHepaJIbHOii KOH@epeHIJHII. Ha MOI? B3rJUIfl pa6oTa B  KOMIiTeTe IIO KaHJuQIaTypaM 6bIna OAHOI? ~3 HaYr6onee CJIoxHbIX 3a Bce Bpem pa60TbI  HbIHeUIHeZi CeCCEIEI PeHepaJIbHOI? KOH~epeHLuIH. B 3TOfi CBII3EI R XOV BbIpa3HTb eMy 6onbmyIo  IIpH3HaTeJIbHOCTb 3a TOT TaKT, yMeHYre, C KOTOpbIMB OH IIOflXO@IJI K peIIIeHEI0 CJIOJKHbIX  BOtIpOCOB, KOTOpbIe IIepefl HaMH CTOWH. 2 RyMaIo, 9TO OIIbIT II yMeHHe, KOTOpbIMEI o6JIanaeT  r-H ToMac, npe~onpegenmm ycneumoe 3aBeprueHHe aarueii pa6oTbI. CnacnGo, r-n  llpeAceflaTenb.
(36) Mr EGOCHKINE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 have asked for the floor in order to express my gratitude to the Chairman of  the Nominations Committee, Mr Thomas, for the vast amount of work he has done during the General  Conference. In my opinion, the work of the Nominations Committee has been among the most complex during the  whole of the murent session of the General Conference. In connection with this 1 would like to express my  immense gratitude to him for the tact and intelligence with which he has approached the resolution of the  complex questions with which we were confronted. 1 think that the experience and intelligence of Mr Thomas  also predetermined the successlùl completion of our work. Thank you, Mr President.  :uyITIJJI TV
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate from the Russian Federation for his kind words and give the floor to the delegate of  the Netherlands.
38.1 Mr SIZOO (Netherlands):  Mr President, 1 also wish to thank our Chairperson, and to point out with his leave that we may have  omitted to take formal note of paragraphs 1 to 10 of the report - but that is a small matter.
38.2 1 would, however, like to draw your attention to paragraph 10 which states that the Committee also felt  it necessary to bring to the attention of the General Conference the need to revise the election procedures for  these commissions, committees and other bodies. 1 fully share the Chairperson’s view that there is a need to  review the general process, and to Streamline the actual elections. 1 do not think that it is SO much a case of  revision as of setting in place, with the help of the Secretariat, a comprehensive set of procedures, along the  lines that we have followed for the election of the Executive Board at this session.
38.3 May 1 propose, or simply state for the record, that we would be glad if the Secretariat would assist the  Executive Board in establishing a complete and comprehensive set of procedures for the election of members of  the intergovemmental committees. Thank you, Mr President.
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Yes, Mr Sizoo. There is no difficulty with what you propose. The Secretariat Will give the Executive  Board a11 the assistance it requires in order to look into this important matter.
(39.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like to inform you that the ballot for membership of the  Intergovernmental Council for Management of Social Transformations is to be held this afternoon. The Council is  composed of 33 Member States. In this aftemoon’s meeting, we shall resort to a ballot since half the Member  States plus one will be elected for a period of four years and the rest for two years. It is customary to use this  procedure when it concems new committees and councils.
(39.3) 1 give the floor to Mr Thomas.
40.1 Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, as this is going to be my last opportunity to thank SO many people, 1 would like to seize  it. First of ah, 1 would like to thank all the members of the Nominations Committee who are present and who,  through thick and thin, went through that ordeal with me. 1 do appreciate their co-operation and  understanding, and the willingness on the part of SO many to bend backwards a little, SO that things could  move: for that, 1 really thank them, one and ah.
40.2 1 would also like once again to thank the interpreters, whom we have kept there never knowing when  they would be relieved, for the very wonderful job they did in facilitating the Committee’s work. My thanks,  too, to ail the people who participated in the actual election process: those who distributed the ballot papers,  those who counted them, those who have printed and those who edited. TO ail of you, 1 give my most sincere  thanks and 1 do hope that from our experience this year, next time around we would be able to fare much better  with smoother machinery. 1 thank you one and all.
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Thomas, for those words. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Zambia.
42.1 MS MONZE (Zambia):  Mr President, allow me to associate our delegation with the sentiments expressed by the previous  speakers, and notably the delegates of the Russian Federation and the Netherlands, in paying tribute to the  outgoing Chairperson and his Committee for their wonderful performance, their commitment, their consistent  faimess and their patience.
42.2 1 was especially interested by Mr Thomas’s suggestion that lists of candidatures should if possible be  closed a week before the elections. 1 think it was a little confusing, even for the electoral groups, to make up  their minds as to which Member States to elect to which committee, because applications kept coming in until  the last few days; 1 do think that this is a matter that the General Conference should consider for next time.
42.3 Mr President, 1 had a question on paragraph 8 of the report, where it is stated that the Statutes of the  Intergovemmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport have been suspended by the General  Conference. As a country which believes that education involves not only going into the classroom and reading  textbooks, but the development of the entire personality, Zambia wishes to be very clear as to what this  suspension means in SO far as UNESCO’s involvement in sport is concerned. Thank you, Mr President.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Zambia. 1 will deal with that question later. 1 now give the floor to the delegate  of Slovakia.
44. MS POLAKOVICOVA (Slovakia):  Mr President, forgive me for raising this matter a little late, but 1 would like to draw your attention to  paragraph 5 of the report and to inform you that bath the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic spoke a, as  well as outside the meetings of the Nominations Committee about their mutual agreement concerning their  succession in the intergovemmental bodies. 1 should be grateful for this clarification to be recorded. Thank  you.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Slovakia. We have taken note of what you say. 1 give the floor to the delegate of  Côte d’Ivoire.
46. M. KEITA (Côte d’ivoire) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je serais bref. Je souhaite simplement, à la suite de tous ceux qui m’ont  précédé, remercier et féliciter M. Thomas en sa qualité de Président du Comité des candidatures. Vous savez  que nous nous sommes heurtés à un problème particulièrement difficile à résoudre. M. Thomas, qui est dans  notre groupe électoral et qui vient d’un petit pays - la Gambie - vient de montrer qu’un petit Etat, en donnant de  grands cadres, peut être aussi une grande nation. Ceci nous amène a demander aux autres Etats membres de  l’UNESCO de considérer qu’ils pourront, lorsque les problèmes compliqués se poseront, faire appel a l’Afrique.  Celle-ci sera à même, avec sa sagesse, d’apporter des solutions. 11 faut apprendre à connaître les Etats non pas  seulement avec la raison, mais aussi avec le coeur. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, et je renouvelle  mes félicitations à M. Thomas.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the &abic):
1 thank the delegate of Côte d’Ivoire very much. The final contribution Will be made by Mr Thomas, who  will tel1 you about paragraph 8 of document 27 U156, which concerns the Intergovernmental Committee for  Physical Education and Sport.
48. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, paragraph 8 simply means that the work of this particular Committee Will be suspended  during the next biennium. No meetings Will be held mainly, 1 believe, because of lack of resources. Thank  you.  :hJl If  .1& *Jd i&YI LKII J?e’3 .LdJJ +a41 LK d .&a$ -ylI J.L21
(49) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. Your reply was clear. 1 give the floor to our last speaker, the delegate of  Nigeria.
50. Mr AIUNLUYI (Nigeria):  Mr President, just to underscore what was very important to my delegation, and indeed what seems to  be a subject of consensus among ail those who took part in the work of the Nominations Committee: 1 refer to  the deftness and dexterity with which Mr Thomas conducted the meetings, and his overwhelming sense of  humour which transformed an otherwise impossible task into a most engaging and pleasant one. We shah  always remember this; and the Nigerian delegation joins in congratulating him very warmly. Thank you.
(5 1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the delegate of Nigeria.
(51.2) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 think that the contributions you have made support the content of the  Nominations Committee’s report as contained in document 27 C/l56 and 27 C/l56 Corr. and we cari therefore  endorse it in its entirety.
(5 1.3) It is SO decided.
(51.4) Thank you very much. Permit me for my part to offer my sincerest thanks to Mr Thomas, the  Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, and to express on behalf of you a11 my appreciation for his hard work  in managing the affairs of the Committee, which, as we all know, is not an easy task. Nevertheless, hJr Thomas  has completely discharged his responsibilities by virtue of his experience, wisdom and tireless efforts on the  Executive Board and in UNESCO generally. 1 would also like to thank a11 those in the Secretariat and those  others who worked with Mr Thomas for helping him to carry out this task. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of  you all, 1 extend once again my deepest gratitude to Mr Thomas.
(51.5) With your permission, 1 will close this meeting. 1 remind you that we shall resume in plenary session at
3.00 p.m. Thank you very much.  La sCance st levée ZI 11 h.05  The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 11.05