Deuxième séance plénière
25 octobre 1993, à 15 h.15  Président : M. OGOT (Kenya)  puis : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  Second plenary meeting
25 OKTII~PR 1993 r. B 15.15  I’IpeRceRaTenb: PH" OTOT (Keats)
3aTew T-H CAH5l,IJ (MeMe@
3A,4OJDKEHHOCI’H II0 B3HOCAM (npo,tIon>Kenae)  (&) iJ&ll dsl~JI  ~R5!3@<%>
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare the second plenary meeting open. Firstly, 1 would like to inform you  that in my capacity as Temporary President 1 have received from the Director-General communications  emanating from Niger and Angola invoking Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution. 1s it your wish  that Niger and Angola should now be permitted to vote in accordance with this article of the Constitution?
1.2 1 see no objections. It is SO &&l&  ADOPTION DE L’ORDRE DU JOUR  ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA  APROBACION DEL ORDEN DEL DIA  YTBEP>KAEHHE I-IOBECTKW QHII  Jldfl Jd+ ~Licl  ji&s!$
2. The PRESIDENT:  We now have to deal with item 1.4, which refers to the adoption of the agenda. The relevant  document is 27 C/l Prov. Rev. 1 shall give the floor to the Chairperson of the Executive Board who Will inform  you of the outcome of the Board’s examination of the provisional agenda at its 141st and 142nd sessions.
3.1 MS BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the provisional  agenda of the present session of the General Conference was prepared by the Executive Board in accordance  with the provisions of Article V.B.7(a) of the Constitution, which states that the Executive Board shah prepare  the agenda for the General Conference. This was done at its 141st session, on the basis of a doctmrent  submitted by the Director-General and to which it made an addition by 141 EX/Decision 6.1.
3.2 By the same decision, the Executive Board also decided ‘that any other items submitted by Member  States or Associate Members or by the United Nations not later than 100 days before the opening of the session
0.e. by 17 July 1993), in accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, shah be included by the Director-  General in the provisionaI agenda, which he shah then communicate to Member States and Associate Members  not later than 90 days before the opening of the session’. Between the end of the 141st session and 17 July 1993,  three requests were received for the inclusion of an item in the provisional agenda The provisional agenda as  prepared by the Executive Board at its 141st session was communicated to Member States under caver of  circular letter CL/3325 dated 27 July 1993.
3.3 At its 142nd session, after having examined the requests for the inclusion of three supplementary items  submitted and received six weeks before the date fuced for the opening of the present session (i.e. 10 September
1993) in accordance with Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure, the Board decided - by 142 EX/Decision 6.1 - to  include these three items in the provisional agenda By the same decision, the Board established the revised  agenda on the basis of the provisional agenda 27 C/l Prov., with the addition of the items 6.12,6.13 and 16.4
3.4 In accordance with the provisions of Rules 12 and 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board  established a revised provisional agenda reflecting these modifications. Thus, the provisional agenda that the  General Conference is called upon to adopt is presented in document 27 C/l Prov. Rev. Thank you,  Mr President.
4. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairperson of the Executive Board. Since 1 sec no objections, 1 consider that the agenda is  adoated.
20    PARTICIPATION AUX TRAVAUX DE LA VINGT-SEPTIEME SESSION  PARTICIPATION IN TBE WORK OF THE TWENTY-SEVENTB SESSION  PARTICIPACION EN LOS TRABAJOS DE LA 27” REUNION  YYACTHE B PABOTE J(BAAHATb CEQbMOfi CECCHH  &&IJ +Ul i,Jdl JLrl u' U,UI  eI%278~~sliJI#
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the document conceming this item is draft resolution 27 CIPLENIDR.4.
1 submit this draft resolution for your approval, if possible by consensus.
5.2 The delegate of the Russian Federation bas asked for the floor.
6.1 F-H CAJITMKOB (POCCHBCK~H cPenepa4m):  roCIIOJ@H IIpeRceAaTeab, yBmaeMbIe NaMbI H rocnofla, R Be MOIJ’ Be BbIpa3ETb CBOerO  coxaaemm T~M o6c1Y)mwIbcTBoM, ¶?y) HbIHeIIIWU ceccm reHepaJxbHoN KOH+epeH4HH  Ba9EHaemI c o6cY>KAeHm BoIIpoca, II0 KOTOpOMy MHeHEH cTpaII-WIeHoB pa3~ennmcb. Poccmr  HeeJIaxa nce HeO6XOflEMOe Jwx TOI-O, vro6bI Irpe~oTBpaTETb nogo6Boe Ocno>KHeHHe,  pyKOBORCTByRCb cTpemeHBeM K HaXO>KAeHHIO comacm B cTeBax Opram3aqm. XOTWI 6bI  OTKpOBeHHO E B OTKpbITofi MaHepe IIOIICHETb CyUJeCTBO Hameii IIO3E4EE. POCCHII ECXOAHT H3  Tiwo, VI.0 MbI He C¶ETaeM BHeCeHHbIfi IIpOeKT pe3OJIIOqEE JIOrH¶eCK.EM H eCWCTBeEHbIM  IIpOflOJDKeHEeM peIIIeEEH reHepaJIbHo$I AccaM6xen OOH 47/1, B ~ompofi rOBOpETC5I 0  HeBO3MO>KHOCTE anrobraTn9ecKoro IIpO~OJDKeHEH meBcTBa QeRepamBHofi Pecny6mKE  K)rocJIaBEE B OOH. %o Be o3Ba¶aeT, ¶?y3 BoBoe rocyflapmso, &OJH~SI Pecny6mKa  K)rOCJIaBBH, nOJI>KHa 6bITb Fï3OJIEpOBaHa OT y¶aCTJzUI B MGKJ(J’H2lPO~HbIX OpJ?aHE3aIWIX CECTeMbI  OOH JJO noRa¶E 3amJIeHm 0 BcTyMeHEB 3aHoBo B ST~ opraHma4Em. APyrEME CJIOBaME,  lIOnRep>I<EBruI Te3EC ~~~OTC~TCTBHH B EOpEm¶eCKOM CMbICJIe IIpaBOIIpeeMCTBa CQ>PK) E COIO3HOii  PecrIy6mKE K)rOCJIaBEE, Poccm He C¶BTaeT IIOJIe3HbIM, 3aKOHOMepHbIM IIpliBBTBe Kamot-nn6o  xecmaix Mep n o~omenmi Co103~0fi Pecny6mm IOromIaBm, OCO~~HHO B mi, m Kacaewrr  Y¶aCTESl PecnybmKn K)rOCJIaBEE B CIIeIIJWIbHbIX ynpe>KAeHFm CHCTeMbI OOH.
6.2 ITpeRcTaBIiTenb K)rocJIaBEE npoy[oJnKaeT ysacTBosaTb B pa6om OpraHoB OOH,  IIpEcyTcrsyeT Ha 3aceflammx CoBeTa Ije30rcacBocm, pacnpocTpameT CBOE floKyMembI. IYlonbnm  BOCIIpOE3BeCTE pe30JIlo4IWl reHepaJIbHOfï AccaM6neIi B IOHECKO C¶ETaeM HeOIIpaBRaHHbIME  eUJe E IIOTOMy, TX'0 B HbIHeIUHEX yCJIOBEHX HeT OCHOBaHEfi AJISI y>KeCTO¶eHHII OTEOIUeHE5I K  Bewww, KOMpbIii HJMeHEJI CBOIO IIpelKHIOlO II03E4H'fO, He BOBJIe¶eH B BOOpy>I<eHHbIfi  KOH@IEKT B ES~CBEE E l?epqeroBEHe H cTpemTca coflei&rBoBaTb 60c~~Bc~ohfy yperymposamno.  Poccm C'ZETaeT, PT0 OTCTpaHeHEe Pecny6JIEKH ~rocsaBm OT ysarmm B pa6om reHepaJIbI%Ofi  KOH@epeH4EE IIpOTFïBOpe¶ET MaHnaTy CaMOii HaIIIeii OpraHE3a4EE, MO>KeT IIpEBeCTB K HOBOMy  BETKy IIOJIETE3a4EE B yI4ep6 IIporpaMMHbIM 4eJIm IOHECKO. %CI oco6eHHo He>KeJIaTeJIbHO B  HbIHeIIJHeii CETyaU;EE, Korna OCTpO CTOET BOIIpOC 0 BOCCTaHOBJIeHEE yHEBepCaJIbHOCTB  KlHECKO. COMHETeJIbHO, ¶TO B OpraHE3a4EE. Beflamqefi BOiIpOCaME IImpoKoro  MemKyJIbTypHOrO coTpyJvIE¶ecTBa, CTOBJIO 6bI CosnaBaTb Ff3roeB ES InNIETB¶eCKEX COO6pa>KeHEii.  n0 HaIIleMy y&>KJ(eHEKI, IIpeflJIO>r<eHHbIii IIpOeKT peJOJIIO4EE IIpOTEBOpe¶ET COXpaHeHEIO  Me>KRyHapOflHO-IIpaBOBbIX o6sI3aTenbcm B DrOCJIaBEE, B TOM ¶ECJIe II0 YCT~BY B KOHBeH4EHM  IOHlXI~O, BbIMaTe BSHOCa, VTO B pe3yJIbTan BeneT K CoKpaIqeHmo E E3MeHeHEIo HOBOG  AByXJIemeii nporpaMMb1 KlHECKO 27 C/5. Hac 6ecIIoKoET H 1-0 o6cToaTenbcTBo, PTO cerolw5I  HaC IIpE3bIBaIOT CTaTb CBOerO pOJ(a CyflbSIME, peI.IIaIOrqHME 6bITb EJIE He 6bITb TOI@' EJIE EHOMy  rOCyp(apCTBy Y¶aCTHHKOM Me>KRyHapOJJHOrO IJ'MaHETapHOrO COTpyJ(HE¶eCTBa. Bonpoc IIpOCT: KTO  CJIe!Q'IOH@i? Koro IIpeRJIO>KaT HaM OCyAHTb B cJIeRymu@i pas? HaKOHe4 nouIenHee.  npECyTC'l%yeT JIE 3neCb jJeJIera4FW ~f'OCJIaBEE ? BCeM HSBecTFIO, 9TO HeT. MbI E TaK Y>Ke  EMeeM TOT pe3yJIbTaT, K KOTOpOMy IIpE3bIBaIOT aB'lWpb1 pe30JIKlqEE. He IlOIIaneM JIE MbI B  CMeHIHOe IIOJIOJKeHHe, KOrJJa 6yfleM KOHCTaTEpOBaTb, ¶TO B 3TOM 3aJIe He flOJI>KHO 6bITb TorO,  KOrO El TaK HeT. KpoMe TOrO, II03BOJIbTe HaIIOMHETb, ¶TO CerOflJSI YTPOM, paCCMaTpEBaa ByHKT
6.3 B 3aKJmmeHEe XOTCJI 6bI no~¶epxnyTb, =rro Poccmr He XoTena r[~~o~mb ~TOT ~onpoc no  rOJlOCOBaHHII E neJIaJIa B 3MM HaIIpaBJIeHEH BCC OT Hee 3aBECHII&Z. Tenepb MbI BblHy>KReHbI  IIpOCETb BaC IIOCTaBETb BOIIpOC Ha rOJIOCOBaHEe. &IaI’OJJapIo Bac.
(6.1) Mr B. SAL‘NKOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 have to express my regret that the current session of the General  Conference has begun with the discussion of an issue on which the opinions of the Member States are divided.  Russia has taken a11 the necessary steps to prevent a complication of this kind by striving to reach an agxeement  within the Organization. 1 would like, frankly and openly to clarify our fundamental position. Russia adheres to  the principle that we do not consider the draft resolution put forward as a logical and natural continuation of  decision 4711 of the United Nations General Assembly which states that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia  cannot automatically continue its membership of the United Nations. This does not mean that the new State, the  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, must be isolated from participating in the international organizations of the  United Nations system, until such time as it submits a new application to join this Organization. In other words,  whilst supporting the idea that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is not the legal successor to the Socialist  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Russia does not consider the adoption of any austere measures against the  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as useful or natural, particularly as far as its participation in the Specialized  Agencies of the United Nations system is concemed.
(6.2) The representative of Yugoslavia continues to participate in the work of United Nations bodies, he  attends Security Council meetings and he distributes documents. The attempts to reproduce the resolution of the  General Assembly in UNESCO also appear to us to be unjustified, because in the current circumstances there are  no grounds for further austerity in relations with Belgrade, which has changed its former position, has not been  drawn into armed conflict in Bosnia and Henegovina and is striving to support a settlement in Bosnia. Russia  considers that excluding the Republic of Yugoslavia from the work of the General Conference contradicts the  mandate of our very Organization and may lead to a further spiral of politicization which will damage the aims of  UNESCO’s programme. This is particularly undesirable in the current situation where the issue of the renewal of  the universality of UNESCO is so relevant. In an organization dealing with issues of broad intercultural co-  operation, it is doubtful whether it would be worth creating pariahs on the basis of political considerations. We  are convinced that the draft resolution put forwatd goes counter to the preservation of international legal  obligations in Yugoslavia, including under the Constitution and conventions of UNESCO, and militates against  the payment of dues, which will consequently lead to a reduction and change in UNESCO’s new bienmal  programme, 27 C/5. We are also worried by the fact that today we are being called upon to act as judges of a sort  who are deciding whether one or another State should participate in international humanitarian co-operation. The  question is simple: who wiI1 the next one be? Whom Will we be advised to condemn next time? And one final  point: is the delegation of Yugoslavia in attendance here? We all know that it is not. Therefore, we have aheady  achieved what the authors of the resolution are calling for. Shall we not be in the funny situation of noting that  someone should not be here who is in fact not here. Furthermore, 1 would remind you that this morning, when  examining item 1.3 of the agenda, the General Conference unanimously approved the right of Yugoslavia to vote  at this Conference. Are we now going to cancel the decision we took this moming?
(6.3) In conclusion, 1 would like to emphasize that Russia did not want this issue to corne to a vote and that it  did evetything it could to avoid that. Now we are obliged to ask you to put this issue to a vote. Thank you.
7. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the Russian Federation and 1 give the floor to the distinguished delegate of  Belgium.
8.1 M. ADAM (Belgique) :  Merci, Monsieur le President. Je parle au nom de la Communauté europeenne, dont la Belgique  exerce actuellement la presidence, et de ceux des Etats membres de la Communaute qui sont membres de  l’UNESCO. Nous l’avons dejà explique à de nombreuses reprises, Monsieur le Président, la Communauté  europeenne et ses Etats membres n’acceptent pas que la Republique federale de Yougoslavie constitue le  continuateur automatique de l’ex-République socialiste fédérative de Yougoslavie. Et c’est dans ce contexte  que nous prenons note de la résolution 47/1 qui avait et.6 adoptée le 22 septembre 1992 par l’Assemblée  g6nnCraIe des Nations Unies et par laquelle cette Assembl& considerait que la Republique féderale de  Yougoslavie, (Serbie et Mont&gro), ne pouvait assurer automatiquement la continuité de la qualité de  membre de l’ex-République socialiste f&l&ative de Yougoslavie a l’Organisation des Nations Unies et dt%%lait  qu’elle ne pourrait prendre part aux travaux de 1’AssemblCe gén&ale.
8.2 La Communauté europeenne et ses Etats membres reconnaissent - et je me réfere ici a l’intervention  qui vient d’être faite par le delegué de la Féderation de Russie - que la resolution 470 de l’Assemblée génerale  ne s’applique pas directement à la Conf6rence genérale de l’UNESCO. Toutefois, nous considérons que cette
2  resolution est un modèle pour agir dans les autres organisations du systeme des Nations Unies. C’est pourquoi  nous avons base sur elle la d6cision que nous vous proposons d’adopter aujourd’hui, selon les règles de l’Acte  constitutif de l’UNESCO. Mesdames et Messieurs, le fait qui a éte mentionné par la délégation de la  Fédération de Russie, a savoir que, a la &nce plenière de ce matin, la Confkence gtdrale a accord6 a la  Yougoslavie le bénéfice des dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8, alinéa c, de l’Acte constitutif,  concernant les Etats dont les contributions a l’Organisation n’ont pas Cte payees, est sans rapport avec le texte  qui vous est présent.6 ici et ni ma délegation, ni celles des autres Etats cosignataires de ce projet de resolution,  n’ont pris part au debat de ce matin, parce qu’elles ne souhaitaient pas mêler deux points de l’ordre du jour, et  n’avaient rien, par ailleurs, à ajouter au sujet de la situation des cr&.nces de l’Organisation sur l’ex-  Yougoslavie.
8.3 Le projet de résolution qui vous est soumis se situe, vous pouvez le constater, dans le droit fil des  decisions arrêtees par l’Organisation des Nations Unies, tant par le Conseil de sécurite que par l’Assembl6e  genérale. Or, le problème posé aux Nations Unies, comme celui qui est posé aujourd’hui devant cette  Conférence generale, est uniquement celui de savoir si la République federale de Yougoslavie, c’est-à-dire la  Serbie et le Mondnégro, assure ou non la continuité de la qualité de membre de l’ancienne Republique  socialiste fédérative de Yougoslavie. Les décisions des organes compétents - Conseil de sécurite et Assemblee  génerale - de l’Organisation des Nations Unies ont tranché ce point en constatant qu’il n’y a pas qualite d’Etat  continuateur dans le chef de la République f&l&ale de Serbie et Monténegro. Et l’on avait tire la conséquence  que les representants de ce gouvernement ne pouvaient siéger à l’Assemblt!e genntrale. Monsieur le Président,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous prendrions une décision d’une grave portée politique si nous prenions a cet egard  une decision différente de celle qui avait et6 adopde a une Ccrasante major@ je vous le rappelle, par  l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Aussi, me parait-il necessaire que la Conference génerale tranche  dans le sens indique par le dispositif du projet de resolution qui vous est soumis, a savoir dans le sens de la  non-participation de la Yougoslavie aux travaux de la vingt-septième session. Ce projet de résolution, je le  précise, n’a pas d’autre but, ni d’autre portee, il ne faut pas y voir un sens ou une Port&e politique. Il ne tranche  que pour la presente session de la Conference generale, ne comporte pas d’implications politiques a court ni a  long terme et ne prejuge pas des solutions qui seront adoptées Cventuellement plus tard en ce qui concerne la  succession de l’ex-Yougoslavie. Enfin, je précise que notre projet de résolution propose un texte qui ne doit  aucunement limiter ou freiner en quoi que ce soit les efforts et les initiatives du Directeur genéral et du  Secr&ariat en vue de porter secours aux populations de l’ex-Yougoslavie, victimes des conflits actuels. C’est  pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous demande, au nom de tous les pays  cosignataires du projet de résolution 27 C/PLEN/DRA, d’adopter la décision qui vous est proposée. Je VOUS  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. One delegate bas asked that we put this to the vote. But it seems to me that  until we have received the report of the Credentials Committee we do not know who is entitled to vote. May
1 ask the delegate of the Russian Federation if he insists that a vote be taken?
10. F-a CAJITbIKOB (PoccmficKaa @eRepan@  HeT, MbI COlXaCHbI. rOJIOCoBaTb MOXHO TOJIbKO Torfla, KorRa MbI 6yJ?(eh% 3HXl'b, KTO  EIMeeT Ipaao rOJIOCOBaTb.
(10) Mr B. SALTYKOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  No, we are in agreement. A vote cari only be taken when we know who bas the right to vote.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Perhaps the Secretary of the Conference could enlighten us in this matter of procedure. 1 give him the  floor.
12. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, dans le document 27 C/2, il est dit que la presentation de ce premier rapport  -je fais reférence au rapport du Comité de v&ification des pouvoirs - aura lieu, comme ce fut le cas à la vingt-  sixième session, à la lin de la deuxième séance, d’une part pour laisser au Comite suffisamment de temps pour  ses déliberations, d’autre part pour ne pas retarder la suite des travaux de la pleniere, btant entendu que toutes  les délégations siégeront provisoirement avec droit de vote jusqu’a ce que le Comité de verification des  pouvoirs ait fait son rapport et que la Conference gtnérale ait statué. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  In that case, 1 think we cari proceed with the voting on 27 C/PLEN/DR.4 which proposes that the  representatives of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia shah not participate in the work of the twenty-  seventh session of the General Conference. Those in favour, please mise your hands. Those against, mise your  hands please. Are there any abstentions?
13.2 The results of the vote are as follows: 91 in favour, 1 against and 33 abstentions. Draft resolution
27 C/PLEN/DRA is a&&&d.  ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DES NOUVEAUX ETATS MEMBRES DE LUNESCO  FORMAL WELCOMING OF NEW MEMBER STATES OF UNESCO  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A LOS NUEVOS ESTADOS MlEMBROS DE LA UNESCO  TOPXECTBEHHbIfi I-IPHEM B IOHECKO HOBbIX I?OCY~APCTB-rIJIEHOB  &.ddI Laa JI JJIJI JJJI cUQ cli;JI  ïEiSG!l!~#4*%~%&R~
14.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we now move to the next item, which deals with the welcoming of new  members. These countries have become members of the United Nations and, as stated in Article II, paragraph
1, of the Constitution, this carries with it the right to membership of UNESCO. The instruments of acceptance  have been duly deposited by the countries concerned.
14.2 1 now have the honour to invite the heads of delegation of these new Member States to corne to the  rostrum to place the flags of their countries. Only some of them are present, 1 understand. 1 Will read out their  names in the order in which they deposited their instruments of acceptance: Kazakhstan, the Republic of  Moldova, Slovenia, Croatia, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Tajikistan,  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Turkmenistan, Eritrea, Solomon Islands and Andorra.  (Applme)  ELECTION DU PRESIDENT ET DES VICE-PRESIDENTS DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE Y DE LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL-  BbIBOPbI IIPETI;CEflATEJIII M 3AMECTHTEJIEfi IIPEJJCE&4TEJIsI FEHEPAJIbHOM  KOH@EPEHIIHH  u+JJl VI$, yWl Jqll uy=uJ ,Ul  iwk+2È~~~~È~
15. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now tum to item 1.5, Election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the General  Conference and of the Chairpersons, Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteurs of the Commissions’. We shall begin  with the election of the President of the General Conference, and 1 shall now give the floor to  Mr G.W.L. Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee.
16.1 Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the Nominations Committee held its first meeting at noon  today and did me the honour of electing me as its Chairperson. 1 should lie to take this opportunity to express  my sincere thanks and gratitude for this honour. Incidentally, Mr President, all heads of delegations are  members of the Nominations Committee.
16.2 Mr President, the Committee discussed the Executive Boa& proposals regarding nominations for the  posts of President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference. On the proposal of the Executive Board, the  Nominations Committee approved the Board’s recommendation that the General Conference elect  H.E. Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad, of Yemen, a member of the Executive Board, President of the twenty-seventh
2  session of the General Conference. The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is accordingly  presented to the General Conference for approval. Thank you, Mr President.  (Applause)
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Judging by the applause, it is obvious to me that it is your wish that H.E. Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad be  elected by acclamation President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.
17.2 1 therefore declare that H.E. Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad of Yemen has been &&d President of the  twenty-seventh session of the General Conference by acclamation.
17.3 Mr Sayyad, before ceding my place to you, allow me to congratulate you cordially and sincerely on the  confidence which the participants in this session have shown in you by electing you unanimously. Your  dedicated involvement with the Organization for many years and in many different capacities is such that we  are sure that the post is in excellent hands. Before leaving the rostrum, allow me to wish you every success in  directing this session. 1 now give the floor to the Director-General.
18.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, 1 should like to join all of you on behalf of the Secretariat in  expressing ail our congratulations to the President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.  Mr Sayyad is very well known to all of us; we have enjoyed his way of directing very delicate meetings both in  the SpeciaI Committee of the Executive Board and in the Programme Commission of the Executive Board. We  know how he is involved with, not only committed to, the activities of the Organization and it is for all these  reasons that 1 would like to express the Secretariat’s congratulations following the applause that greeted the  proposal of the Nominations Committee conceming Mr Sayyad.
18.2 And now, Mr President, allow me, before you leave this rostrum, to present the gold medal of  UNESCO to you on behalf of the Organization. 1 cari assure you that for me this is a very great honour because,  as 1 said this moming in my opening speech, you have not only been an excellent Chairperson, you have not  only followed very closely the work of the goveming body, the Executive Board and the Secretariat, but you  have always inspired us by your support for the ideals of the Organization.
18.3 In awarding to you the highest distinction of the Organization, the gold medal of UNESCO, 1 am  giving you more: 1 am also giving you the appreciation and esteem of the whole Secretariat of UNESCO. 1 must  also inform you that 1 Will cal1 on the wisdom that is yours, and that before long 1 am sure that you Will te  called upon to serve the Organization in very important and delicate missions. Mr Ogot, it is for me a great  honour, on behalf of UNESCO, to present you with the gold medal of UNESCO.  (The Director-General presents the gold medal of the Organization to Mr Bethwell Allan Ogot)  (App~use)
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Confemnce for its twenty-sixtb session, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, heads and members of participating delegations and of  observer delegations, representatives of intergovermnental and international non-governmental organization%  ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of ail to express heartfelt thanks and profound gratitude for the confidence  you have shown in me by electing me President of the General Conference of UNESCO for its twenty-seventh  session, This confidence is a source of pride for me and for the countty 1 represent in this Organization, the  Republic of Yemen, while also giving satisfaction to the Arab group, to which my country belongs.
(19.2) This session of the General Conference is of special importance, for it is being held at a particularly  historic point in time, marked by the breaking down of the balance of terror, the disappearance of the danger of  world military confrontation and the end of what could be called the ideological chasm between East and West.  This new stage the world is going through today implies not the end of history but the beginning of a new era,  during which humankind has to face up to challenges and problems that a11 members of the international  community will have to tackle through effective and real solidarity, responsibility and participation. The gap  between North and South cari be filled only by laying solid, visible foundations for true world partnership  designed to bring about sustainable and equitable development. Today, more than ever before, we demand that  new bases be firmly established for solidarity and collaboration between the baves’ and ‘bave-nets’, between  creditors and debtors, between advanced countries and backward countries, between developed countries and  countries on the path to development. It is not enough in today’s world to learn in order to understand; it is also  necessary to leam to share and to show solidarity.
(19.3) The world that is emerging today before our eyes demands that UNESCO, this Organization that will be  celebrating the fiitieth anniversary of its creation in two years’ time, accomplish every facet and goal of its ethical  mission, especially as the obstacles of the past have been cleared and as it has become obvious to ail chat the  problems facing the contemporary world cannot be solved by arms, nor by restoring the balance of terrer, nor by  confrontation, but by education, science, culture and communication and by promoting dialogue, peaceful  coexistence and tolerance. Al1 this falls fully within the purview of UNESCO in accordance with its Constitution.  It is therefore UNESCO that is qualified and bas the requisite capabilities to forge a unified and integrated vision  based on the principle of world interdependence and solidarity.
(19.4) Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need UNESCO today more than ever before; we need to translate into  deeds the ideals for which it was founded on 16 May 1945.  (Le Prt%ident poursuit en français)
19.5 Mais, il est évident que pour ce faire, pour traduire cela en action, l’uNEsC0 comme vous Pavez dit  vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur gén&al, ne dispose ni de bataillons, ni de masses financières. Ses moyens,
2  son rôle sont ailleurs : ils s’appellent intensification de la solidarit6 intellectuelle et morale pour bâtir la paix  dans l’esprit des hommes.  (Le President reprend en arabe)
(19.6) Consolidation of the foundations of peace, respect for the rights and freedoms of the individual, the  rooting of democracy, war on all forms of discrimination, tapping the energies of youth, the fight against the  marginalization of women and resistance to violence and fanaticism cari be achieved only through education and  the establiihment of new bases for a culture of peace between individuals and between gmups, a culture of peace  based on tolerance and respect for the other, whether it be an individual or a group, an opinion or an identity, a  religion or a belief, a minority or a majority.
(19.7) We should remember these words of Voltaire’s: ‘... God of a11 beings, of all worlds, and of all time: if we  may be SO bold as to ask something of Thee . . . let the small differences in the garments that caver our weak  bodies, in all our inadequate languages, in all our ridiculous customs, in all our imperfect laws, in a11 our insane  opinions, in our status - which is SO disparate in our eyes yet SO equal in Thme, let all these slight differences that  distinguish the atoms called “men” be no more than signals of hatred and persecution; . ..’ Voltaire - Trait& sur la  toldrance. Thank you.  CONSTITUTION DES COMITES ET COMMISSIONS  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMIl-l-EES AND COMMISSIONS  CONSTITUCION DE LOS COMITES Y LAS COMISIONES  C03jJAHkIE KOMMTETOB PI KOMklCCkIfi  ;LUI I.(.‘-.  RiL~fi4su*n~!fi~  cw The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now move straight on to item 1.5 of the agenda. With your permission, I Will  ask the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee to present the recommendation of the Committee conceming  the election of Vice-Pmsidents of the General Conference. 1 give the floor to Mr Thomas, Chairperson of the  comlnittee.
21.1 Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, kindly permit me, before proceeding witb the rest of the business in hand, to  congratulate you most heartily on your election as President of the General Conferenœ. Sir, those of us who  have had the privilege of working with you in the Executive Board over the past four years have wimessed in  you a faithful disciple of this Organization whose primary conœrn continues to be with ways in which peace,  harmony and well-being could be fostered and enhanced amongst diverse and yet simii nations. You,  Mr President, Sir, are one whose unwavering conviction in the common destiny of man continues to provide a
27    ray of hope in our turbulent world. 1 am convinced that with you as the captain of our ship for the next two  years, given your perspicacity and perception, your intellecmal prowess and your equanimity, we cari ail look  forward to your very able navigation of our often fragile craft through whatever weather may chance upon us.  You, most œrtainly deserve the honour conferred on you and you cari look forward to our unswerving co-  operation. 1 wish you every sucœss.
21.2 And now, Mr President, to return to the Nominations Committee business, the Chairperson of the  Executive Board informed the Nominations Committee that the Board had recommended that the number of  Vice-Presidents of the General Conference be increased from 32 to 36 and that, pursuant to Rule 108 of the  Rules of Proœdure of the General Conferenœ, the application of Rules 25.1 and 38.1, which prescribe the  number of Vice-Presidents for election, be suspended for the duration of the present session. After discussing  the Executive Board’s recommendation regarding the number of Vice-Presidents to be elected, the Committee  decided to recommend that the General Conference suspend the application of the above-mentioned rules and  increase the number of Vice-Presidents of the General Conference from 32 to 36 for its twenty-seventh session.  Mr President, the recommendation for the suspension of the said Rules of Proœdure is presented for  endorsement by the General Conference. 1 thank you.
(22.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Thomas, for these kind words. 1 now submit to delegates for approval the  Committee’s proposal to suspend for the duration of the twenty-seventh session Rules 25.1 and 38.1 of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference conceming the number of Vice-Presidents.
(22.2) Since 1 see no objections, 1 consider the proposa1 &QI@J. Thank you very much.
(22.3) 1 once again give the floor to h%r Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to continue his  report.
23. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee recommends that the following 36 States, drawn from their  respective electoral groups, be electcd Vice-Presidents of the General Conference: Group 1: France, Italy,  Norway, Portugal, Switzerland and Turkey. Group II: Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic, Romania  and Ukraine. Group III: Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Jamaica and Paraguay. Group IV:  Bangladesh, China, India, Japan, Philippines, and Republic of Korea. Group V(a): Burundi, Côte d’ivoire,  Ghana, Kenya, United Republic of Tanzania and Togo. Group V(b): United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Lebanon,  Morocco, Oman and Syrian Arab Republic. Thank you.
(24.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from me Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee. 1 accordingly submit the  Committee’s proposa1 for your approval.
(24.2) 1 see no objection. It is m.
25. IvIr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that Mr Peter Canisius  of Germany be elected Chairperson of Commission 1.
(26.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. 1 accordingly submit to you the Committee’s proposal to elect Mr Canisius  Chairperson of Commission 1.1 see no objections and consequently Mr Canisius is duly M Chairpemon of  Commission 1.
(26.2) 1 now declare the first meeting of Commission 1 concluded and the first meeting of Commission II open.
1 call on Mr Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the Committee’s recommendation for  the post of Chairperson of Commission II.
27. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that MS Ruth Lerner  de Almea of Venezuela be elected Chairperson of Commission II.
(28.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you for your applause, 1 therefore declare MS Lemer de Almea &&d Chairperson of  Commission II.
(28.2) We declare the first meeting of Commission II concluded and the first meeting of Commission III open.
1 cal1 on Mr Thomas, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the Committee’s recommendation for  the post of Chairperson of Commission III. Mr Thomas.
29. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that  Mr M.N. Siamwiza of Zambia be elected Chairperson of Commission III.
(30.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you. 1 infer ftom your applause that you endorse the recommendation. Mr Siamwiza is therefore  duly g&& Chairperson of Commission III.
(30.2) 1 declare the first meeting of Commission lII concluded and the first meeting of Commission IV open.
1 give the floor once more to Mr Thomas, Chairpemon of the Nominations Committee, to present the Committee’s  recommendation for the post of Chairperson of Commission IV.
31. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that Mr Aoun  Al-Khasawneh of Jordan be elected Chairperson of Commission IV.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you. 1 therefore declare Mr Aoun Al-Khasawneh dected Chairpemon of Commission IV. The  fiist meeting of Commission IV is therefore concluded and the fiist meeting of Commission V is declared open.  Icall on the Chairpemon of the Nominations Committee to present the recommendation for the post of  Chairperson of Commission V. Mr Thomas.
33. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that Mr Kenneth  Wiltshire of Australia be elected Chairperson of Commission V.
(34.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you. 1 declare Mr Wiltshire duly &&& Chairperson of Commission V. The fiist meeting of  Commission V is now concludcd and the first meeting for the election of the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission is open.
(34.2) 1 call Mr Thomas again to present the nomination.
35. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend that Mr Alexei Joukov  of the Russian Federation be elected Chairperson of the Administrative Commission.
(36) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you. 1 therefore declare Mr Joukov duly &&d Chairperson of the Administrative Commission.  On behalf of you ail, 1 extend my thanks to Mr Thomas for presenting the nominations to this plenary meeting, a11  of which were unanimously endors& 1 once again give the floor to Mr Thomas.
37. Mr THOMAS (The Gambia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, just one announcement. We have been seeking nominations  for the posts of vice-chairpersons and rapporteurs of the various programme commissions and the  Administrative Commission. We still need quite a few people to help us in the bureaux of these commissions,  aud 1 appeal to heads of electoral groups to approach members of their groups to forward proposals in this  connection. Thank you, Mr President.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr Thomas. You have heard what h4r Thomas would like you to do and 1 would urge you to  work with him to complete the task assigned to the Nominations Committee.  DEMANDE D’ADMISSION DE LA PALESTINE A L’UNESCO  REQUEST FOR THE! ADMISSION OF PALESTINE TO UNESCO  SOLICITUD DE ADMISION DE PALESTINA EN LA UNESCO  I-IPOCbBA 0 IIPPïEME IIAJIECTkIHbI B IOHECKO  &+J&MJ~ilyuII~~l+J=
(3% The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We Will now move on to the application of Palestine for membership of UNESCO. 1 give the floor to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board.
40.1 Mme BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  Monsieur le président, je vous remercie. Et puisque c’est la première fois que je prends la parole  depuis votre élection, permettez-moi de vous dire qu’en recommandant votre Clection au Comité des  candidatures, le Conseil executif était convaincu d’offrir a la Conference générale un President dont  l’expérience et la sagesse feraient le SUC&?S de cette vingt-septibme session. Toutes mes felicitations pour votre  brillante blection. La confiance que les Etats membres vous ont manifestie est à l’image de celle que les  membres du Conseil ont toujours eue en vous. Tous mes voeux de succès dans l’exercice de vos fonctions et  l’assurance de mon soutien le plus total.  (The Chairperson of the Executive Board continued in English)
40.2 IvIr President, at its 142nd session, the Executive Board considered the question of the request for the  admission of Palestine to UNESCO, recalling its earlier decisions at its 131st, 132nd and 137th sessions. At  the end of its deliberations it recommended to the General Conference the adoption of a consensus resolution  which considers that the Israeli-Palestinian agreement signed on 13 September 1993 in Washington opens up a  new era of peace and stability and reaffms its desire to support wholly the development of the peace process.  The proposed resolution expresses the strong hope that the negotiations to be initiated within the framework of  the Declaration of Principles Will lead to a just, total and lasting seulement of the Palestinian question. The  resolution invites the Director-General, inter dia, to draw up, in consultation with the Executive Board, the  competent Palestinian authorities and the international financial institutions, a comprehensive plan to meet the  needs of the Palestinian people within UNESCO’s fields of competence; and decides to include this question in  the agenda of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference. 1 hope that the General Conference Will  also adopt by consensus this draft resolution as proposed by the Executive Board and contained in document
27 C/130. Thank you, Mr President.
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  I thank MS Marie Bernard-Meunier for her kind words and for her presentation of this document which  has been submitted for the attention of the General Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution is now  before you in document 27 C!/130. Do you accept this nesolution?
(41.2) 1 sec no objections. &$J&@.&.
(41.3) Now that you have adopted this resolution, 1 will give the floor to its proposer. 1 see the head of the  delegation of Palestine requesting the floor. Please take the floor, Sir.
(42.1) Mr Yasser AMRO (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, Dr Ahmed Sayyad, 1 congratulate you on the confidence the General Conference has  shown in you and wish you every success.
(42.2) Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished colleagues, permit me  to express on behalf of the Palestinian people our sincere thanks for the support you have shown for the  application of Palestine to join this illustrious cultural organization and for its inclusion in the agenda of the next  General Conference. The land of Palestine is the cradle of the revealed religions and its people, with its ancient  culture, seeks to play its part in the enrichment of human civilization. However, no new climate of tolerance and  coexistence will be brought about by wishing alone. For that, it is necessary to put a stop to oppressive measures  and practices and to safeguanl the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people who have suffered a11 kinds of  injustice, persecution, arbitrariness and deprivation of their legitimate rights.
(42.3) We, the Palestinian people, have taken the first hard and laborious step towards a just and  comprehensive peace but, despite our feelings of hope and optimism following the mutual recognition by ail  parties to the conflict of the rights of the others, we are under no illusion as to the extent of our own responsibility  for covering the remaining distance between us and the end of the tunnel. We are relying on goodwill and  constructive international co-operation to enable our people to enjoy their legitimate national rights and to shape  their future by building their own State on their national soii. Our people are depending on your support and your  desire to see the State of Palestine taking its seat in UNESCO alongside other Member States in order to  participate with you in advancing human civilization and the culture of peace. Mr President, 1 thank you.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  I thank the head of the delegation of Palestine and we hope that the path of peace leads to success  throughout the world.  ADMISSION DE NIOUE COMME ETAT MEMBRE DE L’UNESCO  ADMISSION OF NIUE AS A MEMBER OF UNESCO  ADMISION DE NIUE EN LA UNESCO  IIPHEM HMY3 B IOHECKO  &hdl~~~A,&J~  #ilfm&%%#4*%&âfi
(44.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We will move straight on, ladies and gentlemen, to item 16.4 which concerns the application of Niue for  membership of UNESCO. The Secretariat has received an officia1 application from Niue to join the Organization  under Article 2 of the Constitution and Rule 92.1 of the Rules of Procedme of the General Conference. 1 would  like to add that, if the General Conference does not accept Niue as a Member State, it will also have to decide on  whether Niue should participate in Asia and Pacifie business, which must be dealt with separately. Commission 1  will have to address this question itself but, in the meantime, the Conference is called upon to adopt the  resolution on the admission of Niue as a Member State of UNESCO.
(44.2) 1 will now ask the General Conference if it wants to adopt the resolution on the admission of Niue as a  Member State of UNESCO.
(44.3) Thank you. The applause indicates your acceptance of this State to which we wish every success.
1 therefore declare that Niue has been accepted as a Member State of UNESCO. This resolution which has been  adopted by acclamation will undoubtedly enrich the Organization.
33    ADMISSION A LA VINGT-SEPTIEME SESSION D’OBSERVATEURS D’ORGANISATIONS  INTERNATIONALES NON GOUVERNEMENTALES  ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL NON-GO VERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  TO THE TWENTY-SEVENTH SESSION  ADMISION DE OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES NO  GUBERNAMENTALES EN LA 27a REUNION  JIOIIYCK HA &BAJ@IATb CEJIbMYIO CECCHIO IIAEJIIO~ATEZJIE~ OT  ME~JIYHAPOJJHbIX HEI-IPABHTEJIbCIBEHHbIX OPI’AHkI3AIJkIk3  &&AI, +l.JI idJdl >&c.l Q+L & $J,J d..ba 2 ~1~ J&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21~~~
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  We now move on to the admission of observers from international non-governmental organizations to  the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. This cornes under item 1.7 of the agenda, admission to the  session, that is, the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, of observe= from a number of  international non-governmental organizations not listed in categories A and B. You will find recommendations of  the Executive Board in document 27 C/lO. 1 cal1 on MS Marie Bernard-Meunier to present tire relevant  recommendation of the Executive Board.
46.1 MS BERNARD-MEUNIER (Canada), Chairperson of the Executive Boa&  Mr President, this item is presented in conformity with Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, which  specifies that the General Conference, on the recommendation of the Executive Board and by a two-thirds  majority of members present and voting, may admit as observers at specilkd sessions of the Conference or of its  commissions representatives of international non-govemmental or semi-govermnental organizations. This rule  applies to non-govemmental organizations other than those in categories A and B which have already been  invited to send observers to the Conference by virtue of Rule 6, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure.
46.2 In this context, 1 wish to recall that the General Conference, in welcoming a recommendation made by  the Executive Board at its 88th session, decided for the first time at its nineteenth session to admit as observers  representatives of international non-govemmental organizations in category C.
46.3 At its 125th session, the Board approved a new procedure for dealing with requests from international  non-governmental and semi-govemmental organizations in category C, as well as from those not maintaining  any officiai relations with UNESCO, for which no procedure existed. In accordance with this procedure, a  certain number of requests from such organizations were examined by the Executive Board at its 142nd session.  The Board’s recommendations thereon are contained in document 27 C/lO, which is befom you. The Board  decided to recommend that the General Conference admit as observers the representatives of the following  international non-govemmental organizations other than those in category A and B and that it authorize their  representatives to take part in the proceedings on tbe occasion of the examination in the appropriate  commissions of those items in the agenda which they have indicated. These are: (a) three NGOs in category C,  namely the International Student Travel Conference for item 5.5 of the provisional agenda, ‘Detailed  consideration of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1994-1995’; the Federation of International Youth Travel  Organizations for the same item of the provisional agenda; the Union internationale de la Marionnette for tbe  same item of the agenda, and the World Assembly of Small and Medium Enterprises, also for item 5.5; and  (b) two organizations not maintaining officiai relations with UNESCO, namely the Simon Wiesenthal Center  for item 6.8 of the provisional agenda; and the World Cultural Organization, for items 5.1 and 5.5.
46.4 Document 27 C/l0 gives the details of the items indicated against the names of the organizations  concemed. Thank you, Mr President.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank ~OU, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board. 1 therefore put to you the recommendation of  the Executive Board set out in paragraph 4 of document 27 C/l0 as a draft resolution; if you have no objections,  then I suggest that you endorse this recommendation unanimously. 1 see no objections and therefore the draft  resolution is &p&l. 1 thank you.  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITIEE  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  IIEPBbIk3 AOKJIAJI KOMPITETA II0 IIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOMO=IPIfi  JL;cJI &Lf, CrJ t;u J,t’l &&l  &-txw3~5!5%5-~~%
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we move now to the last item, namely the First Report of the Credentials  Committee. Allow me fiist of a11 to congratulate our colleague, MS Prera Flores, with whom we have worked for  many years on the Ehoxutive Board. 1 know how capable she is and the value of her contribution to this important  Board. 1 am happy to see her again chairiug this Committee and pleased that we will be working together  throughout this General Conference. With your permission, 1 cal1 on MS Prera Flores to take the floor to present  the First Report of the Credentials Committee.
(49.1) MS PRERA FLORES (G ua emala), t Chairperson of the Credentials Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):  Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 now have the honour to present the report of the  Credentials Committee, but before doing SO 1 should like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your most fitting  election to direct the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, an election richly deserved on account of  your indisputable qualities. 1 wish you then every success in your work. 1 likewise want to thank the President of  the General Conference for congratulating me on my election to the chair of the Credentials Committee. This has  once more been a memorable experience for me, and 1 am pleased to report that by the end of the day we shall  have succeeded in harmonizing our decisions on the various issues.
(49.2) At its first plenary meeting, held on 25 October 1993, the General Confemnce of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in conformity with Rules 25 and 27 of its Rules of Procedme,  established for its twenty-seventh session a Credentials Committee consisting of the following Member States:  Belgium, Burkina Faso, Guatemala, Jamaica, Mauritania, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan and Romania.
(49.3) 1 wish to inform tbe General Conference that as of today 104 credentials have been duly submitted; by  comparison, in 1991 only 82 credentials had been submitted on the fiist day. In addition, 63 provisional  credentials have been accepted. The delegations of Member States duly accredited in conformity with Rule 22 of  the Rules of Procedum of the General Conference by documents issued by a head of State or government, a  minister of foreign affairs or any other competent minister authorized by the latter to issue credentials, are the  following: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin,
2  Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Cook Islands,  Côte d’ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Demnark, Dominica,  Dominicau Republic, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,  Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati,  Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia,  Nepal, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania,  Russian Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Spain,  Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United  Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
(49.4) The Committee therefore recommends that the delegations of the above-listed Member States be  allowed to take part in the work of the General Conference at its twenty-seventh session.
(49.5) The delegations of the following States have submitted credentials in the form of telegrams, letters or  other documents issued by a minister other than a minister of foreign affairs and not SO authorized by the latter,  by the head of a diplomatie mission, by a permanent delegate to UNESCO or by a senior officia1 of a ministry of  foreign affairs. These countries are: Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados,  Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Henegovina, Brazil, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,  Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Gambia,  Georgia, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Italy, Latvia, Lebanon,  Liberia, Lithuania, Malawi, Malta, Mauritania, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Panama, Papua New Guinea,  Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Slovenia, Solomon  Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tunisia, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen and Zaire. The Committee proposes that these  documents be accepted as the provisional credentials of the delegations of the above-listed Member States subject  to later presentation of credentials in due form and that, in the meantime, those delegations be allowed to take  part in the work of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.
(49.6) The Committee also informs the General Conference that credentials drawn up in due form were  submitted on behalf of the observer delegations of the United States, the United Kingdom, the Holy Sec and the  Netherlands Antilles, and proposes that they be accepted.
(49.7) In conclusion, 1 should like to point out that the Committee noted that a number of Member States had  not submitted the credentials of their delegations. The Committee decided to meet again tomorrow at 12 noon in  Room VIII to examine any credentials that may be submitted. That, Mr President, concludes the first report of the  Credentials Committee. Thank you very much.
(50.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation fmm the Arabie):
1 thank MS Prera Flores, Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, for that report, for her excellent  presentation and for the speed at which the Committee carried out its business. 1 thank you.
(50.2) Would any delegate like to comment on this report? 1 do not see anyone asking for the floor. The  General Conference has therefore taken note of the First Report of the Credentials Committee. 1 hope that anyone  who has any observations to make will address them directly to the Committee.
(50.3) Lad& and gentlemen, 1 am pleased to announce that, thanks to everyone’s co-operation, we have corne  to the end of today’s business but, before the meeting rises, there are a few announcements that 1 will ask the  Secretary of the General Conference to make before you leave the room. Mr Rodriguez.
37    MESSAGE DU PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE ARGENTINE  MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC  MENSAJE DEL PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA ARGENTINA  IIOCJIAHHE IIPE3MAEHTA AF’I’EHTMHCKO~ PECIIYBJIHKH  ù$=JI ta++ 42 i+ Uh  PJE!EW~Eiih~WJB~
(51) The SECRBTARY (Translation from the Spanish):  The General Conference has received a message from the President of the Argentine Republic which  reads as follows: ‘At the start of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, 1 have pleasure in  conveying to you once more my greetings and wishes for success. 1 should have lied to transmit my message to  you personally, but, much to my regret, health reasons have prevented me from doing SO. 1 therefore request you  to allow me a brief reflection. Nobody doubts that the world is at present witnessing an extraordinary acceleration  of the march of our civilization, which will probably shape the principles that will govern the life of the planet in  the fiist centuries of the next millennium. With the advent of these principles there will be no possible  justification for disregarding the essential values underlying the just and caring society that would ensure our  survival in peace. In view of the magnitude of the choice before us and the possibility of extraordinarily serious  consequences for future generations, it is time to recognize UNESCO as a valuable source of answers to SO many  uncertainties confronting humankind, since human disharmony evidently acknowledges a profound cultural and  ethical origin that will be transcended only by acting boldly upon people’s minds. The idea of sharing with you the  aspiration to do SO was what made me want to present myself in person before the General Conference.  Apologizing once more for my absence, 1 trust that your reflection will be profitable and 1 wish you a11 the best of  good fortune. Thank you very much, Mr President.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPI’AHH3AHkIR PAEOTM (npoflon>Keuue)  (& JLYI +
52. The SECRETARY:  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this plenary meeting Will be followed by the fnst meeting of the  Legal Committee of the General Conference, which is to take place in Room IV. The States members of the  Legal Committee, elected in accordance with the procedure in force at previous sessions, are the following:  Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, Chile, Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Islamic  Republic of Iran, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Mexico, Russian Federation, Spain, Sudan, Switzerland, Tunisia and  Venezuela. The Committee Will elect its Chairperson on the proposaI of the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee.
(53.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you. With your permission and on your behalf, 1 will ask the Argentine delegation to convey to  President Carlos Menem your greetings and appreciation for his interest in this General Conference. We wish him  well and his country growth and prosperity.
(53.2) Permit me therefore to bring this plenary meeting to a close. 1 would ask you to assemble in this room at
10 a.m. tomorrow. ‘l’he second meeting is concluded. Thank you very much.  La séance est 1evCe A 17 heures  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 17.00