Seizième séance plénière
3 novembre 1993, B 15 h.15  président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  puis : M. ZAIN ASIS (Argentine)  Sixteenth plenary meeting
3aTeM: PH 3am ACkfC (Apremma)
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now resume the general policy debate. The list of speakers is long and most  of them are representatives of governmental and non-governmental organizations. 1 give the floor first of all to  MS Elizabeth Dowdeswell, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme. MS Dowdeswell.
2.1 MS DOWDESWBLL (United Nations Environment Programme):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a distinct honour for me to rise today  to address this General Conference of UNESCO. UNESCO has very justiftably been called the conscience of the  world community, whose purpose is to foster liberality, understanding and freedom, the truths of the human  spirit. Just recently the opening words of the Constitution of UNESCO were drawn to my attention. They have a  resonant, prophetic quality about them and 1 cannot help quoting them even to an audience which is  undoubtedly well aware of them. ‘Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the  defences of peace must be constructed’. It seems to me that is an impassioned plea for the establishment of  peace on the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind.
2.2 1 for one prefer to think of UNESCO as what 1 would cal1 one of the incubating institutions. This year  UNESCO celebrates the forty-eighth year of its existence and cari justifiably be proud of its achievements and  the privileged position that it holds within the intellectual, artistic and scientific communities. Today it has the  ability to mobilize not only govemments, agencies and centres of learning, but also the talents of outstanding  individuals in achieving its goals.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 speak to you for a few moments this aftemoon on behalf of the United Nations  Environment Programme and HABITAT. These two institutions are ones with the potential of becoming  instruments of peace, much like UNESCO. They are two comparatively Young members of the United Nations  family but ones which nevertheless hare with UNESCO similar ideals of a harmonious world and a world  order free from disease, degradation and war. The United Nations Conference on Environment and  Development at Rio in June 1992 marked a paradigm shift in the manner in which we perceive our  environment and the way in which we shape our policies: social, economic and political. The political  legitimacy accorded the concept of sustainable development has empowered all of us to address the twin  concems of human development and environmental degradation. In simplistic terms, UNCED was about how  to make this world work. UNCED left us with a new conceptual framework, new legislative instruments and a  new agenda for action, and, possibly, most important, a new legacy of a process that Will be transparent,  democmtic and inclusive. Al1 of us, particularly United Nations agencies, must be challznged to rethink, not  only what it is we do, but how we are actually doing it.
2.4 There are some, ladies and gentlemen, who would suggest that we face a future of progressive  ecological collapse; the four horsemen of the Apocalypse war, famine, pestilence and death are galloping  through parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America, and 1 might add, perhaps some parts of Europe as well. In our  lifetime itself, we may be witnesses to conflicts betwcen nations, based on climate change and environmental  disruption, involving water and other scarce resources. The consequences emanating from drastic changes in  the environmental pattem may well constitute the greatest hreat to international security and the future of the  global economy. The signs are already evident: soi1 degradation and shortage of water, fuelled by increasing  population pressures, have created millions of environmental refugees. They have led to large flows across  national bor&rs and into the many overcrowded cities of the Third World. Accelerated destruction of fore&  has led to the silting up of rivers, the irreversible loss of genetic biodiversity and increased low-level flooding
16  which in several cases has had transnational implications. The devastating consequences of even a few  centimetres rise in sea-level induced by global warming on small island States cari only be imagined.
2.5 A plethora of unmet social needs also confronts us. Over 1.3 million people lack access to drinking-  water, 880 million at least are illiterate, 770 million have insufficient food and 800 million live in absolute  poverty. Add to this the inequitable patterns of economic growth and unsustainable pattems of consumption.  With 25 per cent of the world’s population, the developed countries consume 80 per cent of the world’s goods.  The tensions that this creates between the North and the South are thus very understandable. It has been  estimated that the growth required to barely fulfil the basic needs of the world’s population would put a  tremendous burden on this planet’s critical life-supporting systems.
2.6 This sounds very much like a ‘gloom and doom’ scenario and it is usually at this point that 1 am  reminded we sometimes take ourselves too seriously, and think as Woody Allen. He speaks of giving a  commencement address at university and explaining to students that they are really at a crossroads: one path  leads to total despair or utter hopelessness and the other path leads to extinction. 1 do not have quite the same  mind set as Woody Allen and 1 think that UNCED, in fact, was all about hope. The dehberations revealed a  growing realization of the close interdependence between the economy and the earth ecology, between  environment and development and of the need to view the multitude of the earth’s environmental economic and  social problems in one vast interconnected framework.
2.7 And SO we in UNEP are embarking on a path of change. We are trying to move beyond rhetoric into  action. And in fact there is another saying that 1 particularly appreciate to the effect that after the  Enlightenment, there is the laundry. In other words, after ail this rhetoric and talk of what we need to do, it is  time for some of us in govemments and also in United Nations institutions to get down to work. In UNEP we  are adopting a result-management approach to really try and focus the staff and programmes of UNEP on  actua.lly getting results consistent with the Programme% mandate. We are focusing on the needs of our clients,  be they governments, or ordinary citizens. And we now have a concise smtement of a mission which  incorporates the elements bath of our original mandate and that established through the course of the UNCED  preparation.
2.8 Fundamental to our future work Will be two realizations: the first is that sustainable development is  about integration between environment and development, and the greater that integration the stronger the  likelihood of success in implementing sustainable development. The second realization is that we must work on  three fronts simultaneously, bringing about a real convergence between sourd science, public policy and social  consensus. With our expertise in sciences we also need to employ the best scient& knowledge to bring about  social understauding and consensus, and to really be able to make an impact on catalysing public policies.
2.9 At our latest Goveming Council, three priorities were established in this post-UNCED period. Our first  priority, if we are to be faithful to Agenda 21, is that well-wom phrase, capacity-building. But by capacity-  building we mean a systemic approach, one that incorporates the development of laws and institutions, issues of  training, issues of mobilizing information networks as well as financial resources. Helping countries,  ultimately, to make their own decisions about what is in their best interest. Obviously we cannot do this alone  and we Will be continuing to reach out to our many partners, of course, including UNESCO. The ultimate test  of the relevance and priority that all of our activities have within UNEP may well be the degree to which they  contribute to the notion of capacity-building.
2.10 Our second priority Will continue to be that of catalysing responses to environmental problems. Over  the past 17 to 20 years, our strength has been that we have been able to find ways of bringing governments  together either to negotiate formal international treaties or to develop programmes based around a certain  geographic problem. The ozone accords, CITES, regional seas programmes, all of the conventions such as  those on climate change, biodiversity and desertification are significant examples of the way in which we have  been able to catalyse govemments to take action. Agenda 21 specifically directs us to assume a continuing role  in international aw.
2.11 And, fmally, our third priority is the need to develop and strengthen our expertise in sensing the  enviromnent. The world has a right to expect that there is one place in the globe where someone had something  to say about the state of our world’s environment. It is reasonable to expect UNEP to gather information, digest  it, analyse it and disseminate it SO that govemments ec a tool that they cari use in making their own decisions  about sustainable development.
2.12 Chapter 38 of Agenda 21 calls for a reform and revitalization of the United Nations system and  declares that the implementation of Agenda 21 and other conclusions of UNCED should be based on an action-  and-result-oriented approach consistent with the principles of transparency, cost-effectiveness and  accountability. The management approach that we are attempting to adopt is very much in keeping with this  direction. 1 hope that ail of you Will be able to notice the change. Our view of accountability has indeed been  broadened. UNEP cari no longer assume responsibility for being the agency in the United Nations system that  implements sustainable development. No individual or organization cari hope to fulfil its goals in isolation. And  we intend to encourage more strongly partnerships witbin and outside the organization. Empowerment of  individuals with delegation of powers is an area on which we intend to place much greater emphasis.
2.13 This global condition requires of the United Nations system three drings. Fiist, a willingness for us to  study, to try to understand the truly global nature of the challenges that we face. That is an ongoing item of  work, it seems to me, for UNESCO, as well as UNEP. Secondly, it requires an ability to articulate why it is  important to pay attention to trends that are extemal to our national borders, and, where necessary, to allocate  resources to those basic needs. At the very time that many of our member governments are tuming inwards  because of their own recessionary crises is exactly the moment when organizations like UNESCO and UNEP  have to stand up and articulate why we have to pay attention beyond our national borders. And, thirdly, what is  required of us is a continuing commitment to harness our collective resources to contain those conditions that  threaten stability and to support those measures that encourage sustainable development. And member  governments Will not tolerate a duplication of effort and certainly not two organizations of the same system  working in different directions.
2.14 Fortunately, UNEP and UNESCO have a history of co-operation. UNESCO with its confluence of  education, science and culture, certainly has strengths which UNEP cari utilize. And 1 am pleased to leam that  UNESCO has ah-eady revised and refined its activities in line with the imperatives of Agenda 21. Probably, in  my perspective, the most significant area of co-operation between our two organizations is education and 1  think we must continue to view education in its broadest possible interpretation. Both UNESCO and UNEP  actively contributed to the drafting of Chapter 36 of Agenda 21 and 1 really hope that as we look at our existing  educational programme we Will expand it to become an education programme not just in enviromnental  education but in sustainable development education. And 1 hope we Will corne to understand that education in  its broadest interpretation goes much beyond our formal education system. I would request the General  Conference to give particular attention to the continuation of the international environmental education  programme as a joint effort. It is very important that we should not underestimate the fact that attitudinal and  behavioural change is ultimately our greatest hope to being able to make any progress in achieving sustainable  development. We simply Will not make progress without means to implement that change.
2.15 There is, of course, complementarity between our organizations in many other programmes and, while  not listing them ail, let me mention just a couple. 1 think of the co-operation between UNEP’s oceans and  coastal areas programme and IOC - the Intergovemmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO - in the  formulation and implementation of global and regional programmes for the assessment of the state of pollution  in the marine environment, and for the protection of the marine and coastal areas of our world. 1 want to  suggest o the General Conference that, in the spirit of our smooth and harmonious relationship in this field,  that partnership may well be established to look at programmes in the south-west Atlantic and also in the  Arctic. 1 also think of the Man and the Biosphere programme, in which UNEP has collaborated with UNESCO  from its very inception. A significant outgrowth of our joint activities was the 1983 action plan for biosphere  reserves. In addition, on a pilot scale, UNEP, in co-operation with UNESCO, is planning to assess those  reserves in the Russian Federation, east and south-east Asia and the Americas. This is a significant venture  which Will, in due course, establish standards and develop methodologies for an assessment of the entire  biosphere network.
2.16 In co-operation with UNESCO and the Scient& Committee on Problems of the Environment  (SCOPE) of the International Council of Scientific Unions, UNEP is studying the quality of eco-tones, the  transitional zones between two distinct ecosystems, SO as to improve their management for the conservation of  biological diversity. These programmes Will also need your continuing support. UNESCO’s hydrological  programme and UNEP’s freshwater and lithosphere unit have also been partners for a mnnber of years on water  projects of mutual interest. As examples, our organizations are co-operating in the development of workshops  on water resources in the humid tropics. In South America, UNEP and UNESCO are jointly working on a  project to evaluate the effet% of land-use changes on the hydrology of the Amazon basin. Joint international  training courses as well as projects conceming lakes and reservoirs are also being planned.
2.17 But we must not rest on our laurels. The lessons of these partnerships is that partnership itself  enhances the potential of each of our organizations to be effective. There is an Ethiopian proverb that says,  ‘When spider webs unite they cari tie up a lion’. That is a vision that 1 think we need to keep before us as we  tackle such intransigent problems as sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, to know what is possible  tomorrow we must be willing to step outside what seems possible today. The long view is imperative. It seems  to me that UNESCO holds out the promise of reminding us ail of what is possible tomorrow. It mobilizes the  best minds of the scientiflc, cultural and educational community and that is what is required to enable us to  look beyond what is possible today. UNEP and HABITAT look forward to that unique contribution that  UNESCO cari make. Thank you very much and good luck with the rest of your General Conference.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Executive Director of UNEP.
3.2 ‘Your children are not your children.  They are the sons and daughters of Life’s longing for itself.  They corne through you but not from you.  And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you.  You may give them your love, but not your thoughts.  You may suive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.  For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.’
3.3 Ladies and gentlemen, these words are by the great Kahlil Gibran of Lebanon and it is with great  pleasure that 1 now give the floor to Namali Breckenridge, from Sri Lanka, and Tanya Keselj, Italy, who Will  speak on behalf of the children who have prepared a book on Agenda 21 entitled ‘Rescue Mission: Planet  Ealth’.
3.4 The book, prepared by the children themselves and especially oriented to students and teachers, deals  with the vision of children on environmentahy sound and sustainable development. Our organization, Peace  Child International, UNDP, UNICEF and UNEP have provided support for the preparation of the book. SO let  us hear their thoughts. Namali and Tanya, you have the floor.
4.1 MS BRECKENRIDGE and MS KESELJ (Children’s Task Force on Agenda 21):  (MS BRECKENRIDGE) Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Iadies and gentlemen, we should like to thank you for giving us the chance to present our book to you  today. It is a book like no other. You might wonder how we cari make such a bold claim. SO let me justify it.  Here, in my left hand, is Agenda 21, an amazing document, a blueprint for our future, written by all our  governments, signed by ail our govemments, written by adults for adults. In my other hand is a children’s  version of Agenda 21. We have called it: Rescue Mission: Planet Earth’. And 1 think ail the delegations  received a copy of the book this moming.
4.2 (MS KESELJ) We know that you are working hard to fulfil the promises govemments made at Rio, but  in Milan, where 1 live, the average person does not know about Agenda 21 at all. In the way it is presented  here, it is inaccessible to them, especially to children. That is why we were inspired to create this children’s  version. It is not the work of two of us or even of the 30 children from 21 countries who edited it. Today we  represent the 10,000 children from 75 countries who worked to make your agenda our agenda. It remains  faithful to the content of the original but goes further. If our friends from the former Yugoslavia were here, they  would tel1 you that peace is the most important item on their agenda. There is not much about peace in the  original but we included a page about it in our version.
4.3 (MS BRECKENRIDGE) ‘Rescue Mission’ is not just a book with pretty pictures in it. In fact, despite  the pretty pictures, the contents give a rather sobering account of the state of our planet. SO this book does not  simply educate us, it challenges us to take action. 1 want our Rescue Mission’ to be a catalyst, a spark that Will  ignite a massive revolution among Young people. SO many of us drift through childhood twiddling our tlmmbs,  waiting until we become adults to take action. This book cari open our eyes to the fact that we children are  responsible and cari do things now.
4.4 (MS KESELJ) 1 want all Young people to feel the excitement we felt while working on mis book, to  discover as 1 did the energy and the determination and the effectiveness that cornes from working together with  peers around the world, particularly friends from the developing world. You cari help connect us by getting this  book into your schools, into your libraries and pass into the hearts and minds of your Young people. We appeal  to you to do this.
4.5 (MS BRECKENRIDGE) But our book is not going to go anywhere if it sits collecting dust on library  shelves. What we want is action. The ‘Rescue Mission’ has a detailed action plan which we want every Child to  have a chance to participate in. Like Tanya, 1 know that Young people from the North and the South get so  much energy from working together. It.is also important to work in parmership with you, our govermnents,  because this is the kind of partnership that Agenda 21 promotes.
4.6 (MS KESELJ) We have much appreciated our partnership with UNESCO and UNEP. We are also  grateful to the other United Nations agencies, UNDP, UNICEF, Peace Child International and Kingfisher  Books who bravely supported this initiative. We want this parmership to continue and expand. Our basic need  is to work with you. We hope that all of you Will help us promote Agenda 21 among Young pcople in your  countries and encourage them to take action with us to achieve its goals. And we hope that you Will allow us to  corne back in two years’ time to the next UNESCO General Conference session to tel1 you how far we have  gone. Thank you very much for your attention.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames et Messieurs, même s’il est difficile d’intervenir après ce que l’on vient d’entendre, j’invite  S. Ext. M. Arturo de la Guardia, ambassadeur, délgué permanent auprès de l’UNESCO et chef de la  délégation du Panama, a prendre la parole.
(6.1) Mr DE LA GUARDIA (Panama) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, h4r Director-  General, distinguished ministers, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Education of my country, and  head of the Panamanian delegation, His Excellency Don Marco Alarcon, has asked me in his absence to read pu  the following speech. But first of all, allow me, Mr President, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf,  to offer you my congratulations on your well-deserved election.
(6.2) We are living in an age of worldwide changes perhaps unprecedented in history: the end of ideological  confrontation, progress in democracy, and growing concern for human rights. One might say that this is the  beginning of a new age of history, and we express fond hopes that those mgions of the world which are not yet  following the paths of peace and harmony will soon reach that longed-for state of tranquillity and human  understanding. The delegation of Panama extends heartfelt greetings to the representatives of those countries that  are with us today.
(6.3) Panama is at present experiencing a period of democratic transition and economic reconstruction. Its  government is convinced that the sense of purpose of a country, which claims to be rooted in democracy and in the  economic, technological and cultural development of its people, must lïnd its main binding force in education.  Educational activity in our day has the task of preparing, for a new age, human beings who are also new in terms  of their knowledge, attitudes and moral values. This is why we today, must recover, for the present and future, the  full dimension of humanity, a capacity for tolerance, understanding and solidarity. This is why school, as a special  place for those activities concemed with shaping and instructing children and youth, must also recover the leading  role which formerly belonged to it, holding its own against other social organizations whiçh have sprung up and  now compete with school centres in a task today somewhat deflected from the purpose of guiding, educating and  instructing. Education, indeed, is called upon to play a decisive role in the social mode1 to which we aspire, in  strengthening the family unit as society’s basic component, and in forging the civic principles which encourage US  to participate in our countries’ development.
(6.4) UNESCO, whose mission is to safeguard the ethical values of humankind, has proposed lofty objectives  and given them shape in the third Medium-Term Plan and in the Programme and Budget for 1994-1995, whose  Major Programme Area 1, ‘Education and the future’, has three basic themes: education in democracy, education  and economic and social development, and education and integration. It has been almost three years since Panama  added its voice to those calling for better education for all children, Young people and adults. In the context of this  historic appeal, it signed the World Declaration on Education for All, which has universal status as one of the  most important tools of our age in terms of education, one which spurs and encourages heads of State, ministers  of education, and civil society in general, to make joint efforts to satisfy the basic training needs of the various  sectors of the population.
(6.5) ‘Education and the future’ thus presents us with a new kind of educational development, a fresh  approach to literacy, together with quality and relevance in education and professionalization of the staff of the  Ministry of Education: these are a11 policies adopted under Panama’s national plan of educational action for all.  Panama’s govemment is facing up to its curmnt educational challenges. One such challenge is to teach more than
190,000 illiterates to read and Write: but tbrough an approach to literacy that, going beyond the mere mastery of  the techniques of reading and writing, aims to teach our illiterates not only to read, but also to understand the  world, and to take part in its transformation. For this purpose a literacy project is under way with support from  the written press. We are also making tremendous efforts to improve the quality of education, by training teachers  for bath distance teaching and classroom teaching, updating curricula, carrying out prospective surveys, and  improving the educational infrastructure and the supply of textbooks. Al1 too often, school curricula appear
16  remote from real life. For this reason we continue to encourage education that is rooted in and aimed at,  employment, tbrough a process of teaching and training which links theory with practice, the intellectual with the  manual, thus affording access to a science and technology attuned to the needs of the country, SO that advances in  education cari be hamessed to growth and social development.
(6.6) In Major Programme Area II, ‘Science for progress and the environment’, we welcome the concems  voiced about environmental protection, and hence the key role played by UNESCO in changing attitudes now  found to lie at the very heart of new ways of life, attitudes compatible with models of development that respect  nature’s limits. UNESCO today is a major protagonist in the preservation of the environment and in husbanding  renewable natural resources, bringing to the traditional approach a fresh outlook which takes account of cultural  identities.
(6.7) We are also pleased with the support offered by UNESCO to the Bolivar programme - with its network  for the pooling of knowledge - in order to encourage co-operation between academic research and industry. For  our continent, it is important to create a new, flexible mechanism for cultural and technological co-operation, one  that is bath modem and dynamic in conception.
(6.8) The main features and policies of the Panamanian education system, as far as environmental education  is concemed, are based on universal trends towards democratization and efforts to achieve economic, political,  social and cultural development. There is an outstanding need to take advantage of natural resources within the  limits of the laws regulating the ecosystem, with the ultimate goal of sustaining that ecosystem.
(6.9) Culture, identified in UNESCO’s programme with Major Programme Area III, corresponds to the human  capacity for self-awareness. This is what makes us specifically human, rational, critical, and ethically committed.  Through culture we discern values and choose them. Through culture we become aware of humanity as an  unfinished project, question our own accomplishments, tirelessly search for new meanings, and create works  which transcend ourselves. We live now in a world that is more interdependent than that of our ancestors, thanks  to the cultural factor, which emerges as a symbol of union rather than of division. The tremendous potential of  culture and the arts cari be converted into a dynamic force and a means of integration.
(6.10) Panama plays an important role in the process of integration under way in the Central American  Isthmus, by virtue of the cultural diversity which it enjoys - and which encourages just such a vocation. Today,  more than ever, Panama is being called upon to live up to this vocation, and to conhibute to union and integration  among countries, by eliminating the barriers and obstacles in the way of such union. We are convinced that  culture as an integrating factor helps to develop international solidarity and understanding. It is the ideal means of  strengthening national and regional identity - and the foundation of our future and our greatness. It is therefore  worth while to point out the importance of preserving cultural identities, and cultural variety, for the defence of  peace, as one of the fundamental bulwarks to be set up in the minds of our children and Young people.
(6.11) From the standpoint of UNESCO’s programme and budget, we believe that to carry out co-ordinated  activity involving the fields of culture, the social sciences and education, it is necessary to implement an  intersectoral approach. This Will enable us to reach the supreme goal of the World Decade for Cultural  Development, which must be reaffirmed in practice as the primary objective of a11 UNESCO’s programmes in the  cultural sphere.
(6.12) In the field of communications, we must recognize the impetus acquired by modem technology, and  above all, by television and related media. Cable broadcasting, video-disc and video-cassette, satellite  broadcasting and electronic mail with a11 its individual and collective components, a11 these help to speed the  distribution of the culture industry’s products. None the less, faced with the new technology in communications,  there arises the need to educate the target audiences of such communications more effectively, by including such  subjects in general educational curricula, SO that recipients may learn more from the messages received, and be on  their guard against ideological or advertising propaganda. Hence we support the initiative of carrying out a survey  on the impact of the messages conveyed by the media on the acquisition and practice of moral values. Along these  same lines, it would be relevant for UNESCO to spark a debate on the type of joumalism required in  contemporary society, and also to evaluate how the mass media perform their role as purveyors of information, on  the basis of a rethinking of just what constitutes news. These are some of the issues raised by the boom in  communications technology.
(6.13) We note with considerable interest the activities promoted by UNESCO on behalf of peace, human  rights, demccracy and the elimination of a11 forms of discrimination. These were the principles on which  UNESCO was founded more than four decades ago. It is for us to encourage future generations to draw their  inspiration from these same principles, by doing our utmost to ensure that children and Young people understand  the great significance of respect for human rights, and value the human condition. If these requirements are not  met, then we cannot expect positive attitudes from future generations. Human rights, democracy and peace should  be learned in the family, in the commun@, and in school. It is in these settings that we adults must set an  example and provide role models SO that tomorrow’s Young people may feel profound love for humankind.
(6.14) We have taken the opportunity afforded by UNESCO as an international forum in order to explore new  ways of revising and strengthening our cultural task, in the hope that this revision may help our contemporaries to  make up for lost time - their time and ours - and develop a11 the possibilities that science, technology,  communications and modern education hold out to us. Thank you very much.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Panamanian delegation and now cal1 on His Excellency Mr Saîd Farah, the  Somali Ambassador to France, to take the floor.
(8.1) Mr FARAH (Somalia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished friends, heads and membem of delegations participating in this Conference, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 would like first of all, on behalf of the Somali delegation, to congratulate Mr Ahmed Saleh Sayyad  on his election as President of the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference. 1 am sure, Mr President,  that you will successfully achieve the desired aims of this Conference in view of your experience and manifest  wisdom.
03.2) 1 would also like to congratulate Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, who has played an important  and leading role in administering this Organization of ours and in putting it on a lïrm footing through his generous  and tireless efforts. My delegation welcomes and endorses his re-election. We have always considemd Mr Mayor  a friend of Somalia, to which he has never failed to provide assistance. He is also a friend to Africa and to the  peoples of the Third World in general. Your programme ‘Priority: Africà is the greatest proof of your concern for  the problems facing the African continent.
(8.3) 1 would like, on behalf of my delegation, to welcome the new States that have joined the Organization,  particularly our sister nation, Eritrea, and to wish them every success.
(8.4) Mr President, this Conference cornes at a special, historical moment for today’s world, between the end  of the Cold War, with the threat of war, fear and conflict, and the beginning of a new era with its own challenges,  concerns and crises. 1 consider it our duty to present a united front when confronting issues such as these. The  world has become a global village and, if we are a11 to live in it, we must foster a sense of brotherhood among  nations, understanding and tolerance between religions, solidarity and mutual support amongst a11 people, rich  and poor, and co-operation between the developed and the developing nations. In this way, we shall a11 manage to  prevail against the challenges that we shall be facing towards the end of this century and at the beginning of the  next. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, the task of our Organization, UNESCO - education, science,  culture and information - which means encouraging dialogue, understanding, tolerance and democracy. Perhaps  this, ladies and gentlemen, is how to spread the culture of peace.
(8.5) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, Somalia is going through a tragic period in its  histoxy and is, in facf on the point of disappearing from the face of the earth. For a long time, it bas been anytbing  but a prominent and effective member of either the United Nations, OAU, the Arab League or the Islamic  Conference Organization. Ladies and gentlemen, largely as a result of its own people and the misguided  ambitions of some of its leaders, my country has, for the past three years, suffered from the ravages of a civil war  or, 1 should say, a long-standing tribal war that has destroyed everything in its wake, sparing neither the old nor  the sick, neither women nor children. It has resulted, as you know, in the deaths of more than half a million  people, most of them civilians, women, children and the old. The effect of this war, ladies and gentlemen, has  been to shut down schools and universities and deprive our student population of learning and knowledge,  creating victims of hunger, poverty, suffering and homelessness following the destruction, ransacking and looting  of the schools, colleges and institutes.
(8.6) Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that responsibility for the destruction that has befallen Somalia lies  primarily with the Somalis themselves. 1 must say here, tbough, that the international community, friendly States  and even the major powers were slow to corne forward to save the Somali people from themselves. The war raged  on throughout the whole of 1991 without any other country or friend lifting a finger, either on our behalf or on  behalf of our neighbours who were suffering with us in similar poverty-stricken circumstances.
(8.7) This situation continued until the United Nations Secretary-General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, took office  and issued his appeal to the Security Council to try to put an end to the wholesale killing in Somalia. It was many  months before the Secretary-General was able to do anything. Then there was the Presidential election campaign  in the United States, during which the two nominees turned their attention to the crisis in Somalia and Operation  Restore Hope was launched on the initiative of former United States President George Bush, to be followed by  Operation UNOSOM 2. 1 suspect that you are aheady aware of what happened next and that 1 do not therefore  need to go into details. However, despite the signing of a peace agreement by the 15 Somali factions at the second  Addis Ababa Conference in March of this year, there were those who refused to lay down their weapons, which  meant there would be no political control, even though 12 of the factions agreed to lay down their arms and stand  by their decision to do SO, thereby demonstrating their desire for peace.  u3.8) However, the political situation has not changed and the multinational force is looking to withdraw. The  United States has said that it wants to pull out of Somalia by the end of next March, and the French, Italians and  Germans by the end of the year or the beginning of next year. Who knows what the others will do after that.  Ladies and gentlemen, the militias are indeed still armed and we have already begun to hear talk of ‘an African  solution to an African problem’. Clearly, the Africans need to solve their own problems but, despite my faith in  the govemments of neighbouring countries which has worked tirelessly to stop the bloodshed and devastation, 1  doubt that we, in the Horn of Africa, cari provide a solution to a problem that the United States failed to solve, if  indeed it wanted to do SO at all. This last idea 1 do not believe to be the case.
(8.9) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 make an appeal from this podium before our esteemed Conference  to those countries that have contributed forces to UNOSOM 2 not to withdraw from Somalia before a political  solution is found and a transitional government formed and, most importantly of all, before the militias, a11 the  militias, are disarmed. Without that, the crisis will become even more acute and more brutal than it has been for  the past year and a half. The war will escalate once more between the militias, with more horrifie consequences. 1  also cal1 upon my brothers, the Somali leaders, tiom this podium, to resort to higher principles, to have recourse  to wisdom, reason and the law and to put an end to our people’s tragedy through dialogue and plain speaking.
(8.10) Mr President, 1 would like at this point to commend the sterling efforts of countries neighbouring  Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea, and also Djibouti, Kenya, Sudan, Yemen and Egypt, to find a solution to the crisis  in Somalia. Their contribution has been effective and positive because our problems and crises are theirs, too.  They are suffering with us, as 1 have already said. However, their efforts and the efforts of the Ethiopian  President, who is shuttling between the countries of the region, Will be in vain if the major powers withdraw their  troops from Somalia, if the United States pulls its troops out of Somalia and if France, Italy and the powerful  industrialized world withdraw their forces from Somalia. There are other countries which have freely offered  assistance and that possess numerically superior forces but which will never be capable of matching the  contribution of the advanced nations of Western Europe and the United States, despite their sincerity and good  intentions. 1 want to say that the efforts of the neighbouring States Will be in vain if the major powers withdraw  their forces from Somalia.
(8.11) 1 would also commend the role of the Secretary-General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and of the United  Nations, which has done much work in the remote regions of Somalia even though the media, which have  concentrated on the south of Mogadishu, did not report it. If the United Nations does not solve the crisis in  Somalis, it Will be a tragedy not only for the Somali people but also for the United Nations and its operations in  places like Bosnia, Angola and elsewhere and, by extension, the whole world. This is because 1 feel that the new  world needs the United Nations and its services. The United Nations must succeed in Somalia in order not to lose  its credibility. Believe me, the Somali people are not opposed to peace. UNESCO definitely has a contribution to  make and must do SO not just to establish peace but to rebuild and restore society, education and culture in  Somalia.
(8.12) Ladies and gentlemen, to those who wish to bring down the United Nations Secretary-General I say, do  not bring down a man of peace. Finally, 1 thank you for listening SO patiently to my speech and hope that the  Conference Will adopt resolutions that serve the educational, scientific and cultural interests of Member States. I  trust that we shall meet again at the next Conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Somali delegation and now cal1 on His Excellency Saidullah Kban Dehlavi,  Pakistan’s Ambassador to France, to take the floor.
10.1 Mr DEHLAVI (Pakistan):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, permit me at the outset,  Mr President, to extend to you our sincerest congratulations on your election as President of the General  Conference. 1 am confident that under your able guidance our deliberations Will reach a successful conclusion.  The Director-General and the Secretariat staff deserve our deep appreciation for the excellent arrangements  made for this Conference. 1 would like to join previous speakers in welcoming the new Member States to  UNESCO and to express our satisfaction at the prospective return of those members which felt obliged to leave  us some years ago. Their reintegration in our midst will make UNESCO a truly universal body.
10.2 Mr President, we stand today at the threshold of a new era in human civilization. Al1 of humanity is  looking forward to an age where the strong are just, the weak secure and the relationship between the two leads  to peace and plenty. UNESCO has becn called to play a key role in the realization of this vision. It is a  comforting thought that the culture of peace today has top priority on UNESCO5 agenda We believe that  human rights and democracy are the essence of the culture of peace, reflecting the optimism of ail of us mat  this Will promote peace in the minds of men. And yet it is a tragic irony that just when our collective  consciousness has reached a high point, we are witnessing the worst abuses of this fundamental right in far too  many parts of the world. As the conscience of humanity, UNESCO is the obvious venue of dialogue between the  intellectual communities of the world’s nations, through the World Commission on Culture and Development  and the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century.
10.3 We note with satisfaction that a recurring theme in the General Conference documents is the need to  encourage co-operation among intellect& communities, at the national and regional levels, thus epitomizing  the original aspirations of the founders of UNESCO. Pakistan would like to make a modest but concrete  contribution to this effort. The city of Taxila is the repository of one of the oldest civilizations in the world, the  Ghandhara civilization. The fnst known university of the region was established more than 2,000 years ago at  Jaulian in Taxila. My government plans to re-establish a university at this site. This institution of higher  leaming, open to research scholars, would explore the centuries-old Central Asian civilization. A related  objective is the preservation and the restoration of the Taxila site for which funds-in-trust have been committed  in principle by the Japanese Government, to which we are grateful.
10.4 Mr President, the year 1995 has been declared as the International Year of Tolerance; it is also the  ftitieth anniversary of UNESCO. As its contribution, Pakistan Will be hosting a regional conference on the  theme ‘Tolerance - An Asian Perspective’ in 1995 in collaboration with the UNESCO Regional Office in  Islamabad.
10.5 Mr President, draft document 27 CL5 is testimony to the Director-General’s commitment to reform; it  is commendably transparent, succinct and well focused. We fully support the prominence, botb in lïnancial and  programmatic terms, given to the Participation Programme and the National Commissions. Another salient  feature is the decentralization policy. This is an initiative we shall follow with great interest. An important  corollary is the strengthening of collaboration between National Commissions and the field and Regional  Offices. In this regard we express our deep appreciation to the Director-General for upgrading UNESCo’s  representation in Pakistan by designating it as UNESCo’s Regional Office, Islamabad, and increasing the  professional staff strength.
10.6 Mr President, we are in full agreement with the proposition in the third Medium-Term Plan
(1990-1995) that the majority of the world’s population has to be delivered from the worst form of injustice that  condemns it to poverty, suffering, and humiliation. ‘Basic education for ah’ is the ideal which is being echoed  from national, regional and international education forums. In Pakistan alone, for example, a sum of  US $1.7 billion would be needed over a period of ten years to bring 99.1 per cent of the 22 million 5-9 year age-  group children into the primary cycle.
10.7 Let me now turn to the question of illiteracy, which is high on the list in the Draft Programme and  Budget and remains a diflïcult challenge in Pakistan. However, we are determined to make planned efforts to  increase the literacy rate to 50 per cent by 1995 and 70 per cent by the year 2002.
10.8 We also support the proposed programmes, particularly UNIVOC, on technical and vocational  education for the biennium 1994-1995. A network of technical teaching training institutes is being established,  one in each province, which Will be linked with the National Institute of Technical Education at the federal  level.
10.9 In higher education, too, Pakistan has resolved to increase inputs in graduate study programmes and  research. Universities Will bc encouraged to generate funds and Will be provided with sizeable endowments to  enable them to move towards fmancial self-sufficiency.
10.10 Progress in ah of these areas, however, is continually retarded by the galloping growth in population  and inadequate interna1 resources. Nevertheless, we are determined to step up our efforts to implement  meaningful reforms in education before we enter the twenty-first century. This intent is reflected in our new  education policy, the eighth Five-year Plan and the Social Action Programme. We attach particular importance  to the expansion of educational opportunities for girls and a more active role for women in socio-economic  development.
10.11 We hope that the UNITWINAJNESCO chairs programme to support the development of inter-  university networks Will facilitate the exchange of information and further improve the training of teachers and  researchers. We feel that the UNITWIN programme should be designed to generate intense scientific activity  (and not be restricted merely to an exchange of professors. We would like to see the establishment of an  international information retrieval system which would function essentially as a data bank providing  information and literature free of cost to researchers in the Member States.
10.12 Developing nations cari also derive great benefit through regional co-operation in the field of  education. Towards this end, the Pakistan National Commission for UNESCO plans to organize a three-day
16  regional meeting on co-operation with Central Asian republics in the field of education under the Participation  Programme.
10.13 Mr President, an event of great significance for us is the forthcoming meeting of the heads of State and  government of the nine most-populous developing countries scheduled to be held at New Delhi next month.  This is the first time that a conference at the summit level is to tackle the problem of education. We extend our  whole-hearted congratulations to the Director-General for his untiring efforts in promoting this noble objective.
10.14 The Government of Pakistan wishes to pay special tribute to UNESCO and its Member States for  providing support in the campaign to safeguard Moenjodaro, the greatest Bronze Age site of the third  millennium BC which was the centre of the Indus civilization. Much has been done to preserve and protect this  world heritage but much more needs to be done to save Moenjodaro from the ravages of waterlogging and  salinity. TO achieve this objective, it is proposed that an international education centre for archaeologists and  conservators be set up at Moenjodaro to create global awareness of this archaeological treasure.
10.15 Mr President, Pakistan has created a National Heritage Fund with an initial deposit of $3 million  contributed by the government and the private sector. The fund Will be used for stimulating an awareness of  national heritage among the people of Pakistan, for acquiring unattended cultural property, for its proper  maintenance and for promoting research in cultural heritage.
10.16 Mr President, my government accords high priority to Major Programme Area II, ‘Science for progress  and the environment’. We are deeply conscious that the rapid expansion of human activities - industrial,  agricultural, social and economic - coupled with the increase in population has raised many questions  concerning the future of our planet. There is a pressing need to integrate enviromnent into ah our development  processes SO as to provide adequate scient& bases for susminable development of our resources.
10.17 My govemment therefore, strongly supports the recommendations of the United Nations Conference  on Environment and Development (UNCED). We also endorse the Director-General’s intention to forge  UNESCO’s potential role in the follow-up of UNCED. We particularly recognize the significant role of the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and its coastal and marine activities as well as that of the Man  and the Biosphere programme. We wish to stress the need to strengthen these two major programmes.
10.18 Before concluding, Mr President, 1 would like on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, to  extend to Mr Federico Mayor our sincere felicitations on his nomination for another term as the Dircctor-  General of our Organization. During his fnst term in office he has with great determination ensured that  UNESCo’s activities remain concentrated on realizing the aims and objectives for which it was created. 1 am  confident that, under his dynamic leadership, our Organization Will reach new heights on the path towards the  goals that we have set ourselves.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):
1 thank the head of the Pakistani delegation and cal1 now on Her Excellency Madina Ly-Tall, Mali’s  Ambassador to France, to take the floor.
12.1 Mme LY-TALL (Mali) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur gtkéral, Messieurs les chefs de délegation, Honorables dellégués, c’est pour moi un grand honneur  et une immense joie de prendre la parole aujourd’hui devant cette auguste assemblée que je sais animée d’ideaux  que nul ne saurait récuser. Permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous adresser a cette occasion  mes chaleureuses félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de la vingt-septième session de notre  Conférence. Ce choix n’étonne guère, pour qui connaît vos éminentes qualids d’homme de science et de culture.  Je ne doute pas que sous voue sage direction, nos travaux seront couronnés de succès. Je voudrais aussi  remercier Monsieur le Directeur général et tout le Secrétariat des efforts qu’ils déploient quotidiennement pour  faire de l’UNESCO non seulement un instrument de développement de l’éducation, de la science et de la  culture, mais aussi un outil au service de la paix et de la compréhension entre les peuples.
12.2 Monsieur le Directeur général, votre modestie dut-elle en souffrir, permettez-moi de souligner la  contribution majeure que vous avez apportée, depuis votre élection, à l’action de I’UNESCO. Le gouvernement  de mon pays s’est réjoui en diverses occasions de l’intérêt particulier que vous portez a l’Afrique et des actions
589    positives que vous avez entreprises en sa faveur. Il me paraît tout à fait opportun, au moment où votre mandat  arrive à expiration, de vous réitérer notre gratitude et d’exprimer en même temps les voeux les plus ardents  pour que la communauté internationale vous renouvelle sa confiance.
12.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, la vingt-septième session de la Conférence géntrale se  tient à un moment où s’affirment de plus en plus dans le monde les spécificités et identites culturelles, à un  moment où les tendances au repli sur soi s’exacerbent, débouchant parfois sur des conflits armés. L’avancée de  la démocratie dans plusieurs régions du monde, le recul de la guerre froide et le ralentissement de la course aux  armements avaient fait naître chez les peuples du monde entier des espoirs légitimes de paix, de solidarité et de  compréhension mutuelle. C’est ainsi que le peuple de mon pays a saisi la chance historique qui lui était offerte  pour se libérer en mars 1991 et se lancer dans une expérience démocratique majeure et exemplaire sur le  continent africain, ce qui lui a valu la sympathie, l’admiration et le respect de toute la communautk  internationale.
12.4 Force est de constater cependant que des menaces réelles pèsent sur le progrès de l’humanité et la  qualité de la vie et que persistent de façon inquiétante les inégalités entre pays industrialisés et pays en  développement. Dans les faits, le nombre des pays les moins avances ne fait que croître, et dans maintes régions  du monde on assiste à la dégradation constante des conditions de vie des populations. C’est le cas de l’Afrique,  Monsieur le Président. Et nous craignons que le processus de démocratisation et la dynamique de l’Etat de droit  en cours dans ce continent ne soient en définitive compromis par la détérioration de la situation économique.
12.5 La communauté internationale dont fait partie l’UNESCO doit comprendre que l’écroulement des  dictatures a suscité chez les peuples, à tort ou à raison, d’immenses espoirs d’amelioration de leurs conditions de  vie. Aussi le lien entre démocratie et développement est-il devenu pour eux quelque chose de concret, de plus  fort et de plus impératif. L’action de l’UNESCO, développée en synergie avec d’autres organisations  internationales, doit tendre à faire en sorte que les attentes et les espoirs des peuples trop longtemps sevres ne  soient pas déçus et à éviter que les tenants de l’ordre ancien ne relevent la tête.
12.6 Monsieur le Président, parce que nous avons foi en l’UNESCO, parce que nous savons a quel point elle  contribue à la recherche de solutions répondant aux aspirations profondes des peuples, nous en attendons  beaucoup. Nous attendons qu’elle intensifie ses actions pour lever les nombreux obstacles a la paix, au respect  des droits de l’homme et au progrès de l’humanité. Nous attendons qu’elle contribue à l’amélioration des  conditions de vie des populations en leur assurant l’accès à l’éducation, aux connaissances scientifiques et aux  méthodes de travail modernes. Voilà pourquoi nous croyons à la nécessité des programmes de l’UNESCO, qui  contribuent, par les débats qu’ils suscitent, à renforcer le caractere multilatéral de l’Organisation.
12.7 Monsieur le Président, l’examen du projet de programme pour le biennium 1994-1995 a permis à mon  pays de noter avec satisfaction que les priorités dégagées pour chaque champ majeur rencontrent ses propres  préoccupations. Ces priorités s’inspirent opportunément des axes majeurs du troisième Plan à moyen terme pour  les années 1990-1995, tout en tenant compte de l’évolution actuelle du monde. En effet, en retenant la  promction et le soutien du droit a l’éducation comme la première priorité de l’exercice biennal 1994-1995,  l’UNESCO reste fidèle a sa mission qui est de promouvoir le développement intégral de l’homme, c’est-à-dire  un développement qui soit durable, équitable et axé sur la personne humaine.
12.8 L’option consistant a privilégier le secteur de l’éducation est en parfaite cohérence avec l’effort fait en  faveur de la formation dans tous les autres champs majeurs de programme. Mon gouvernement s’en félicite,  conscient qu’il est que l’effort de construction de l’avenir passe nécessairement par la formation de ressources  humaines de qualité, plus particulierement celle des femmes, qui ont pris une part décisive dans le  renversement de la dictature qui a bâillonné le peuple du Mali pendant un quart de siècle. Aussi mon  gouvernement, avec les modestes moyens dont il dispose et qu’il espère voir renforces davantage par ceux de la  communauté internationale, a-t-il mis en oeuvre un important programme de scolarisation des filles dont les  formidables enjeux n’échappent à personne. Il a ainsi fait à juste titre de l’éducation et de la formation l’un des  secteurs tratégiques de son action. A vrai dire, Monsieur le Président, il ne pouvait en être autrement, dans un  pays où le taux de scolarisation atteint à peine 30 %, où 70 % de la population demeure analphabète t où près  d’un million d’enfants attendent devant les portes de l’école sans pouvoir y accéder.
12.9 C’est dire, Monsieur le President, Honorables délégués, que le Mali ne peut qu’adhérer pleinement aux  résolutions proposées par la Conférence générale, particulièrement en ce qui concerne l’accroissement du  nombre d’enfants d’âge scolaire et d’adultes ayant accès à l’éducation de base. Mais cet objectif peut  difficilement être atteint, notamment pour les enfants des zones rurales, si l’appui aux cantines scolaires n’est  pas renforcé. L’expérience malienne démontre que la survie de l’école en dépend largement dans certaines
16  zones arides ou reculées. Il faut simplement rappeler que la distance moyenne qui sépare deux écoles, dans
80 % des circonscriptions administratives de mon pays, est supérieure à 18 km, et que l’essentiel de l’énergie de  certains éleves en milieu rural est absorbée par la marche à pied pour atteindre l’école la plus proche, où ils  restent toute la journée, le ventre creux le plus souvent, pour apprendre quelques bribes de savoir. Voila  pourquoi, Monsieur le Président, mon pays souhaite que l’UNESCO s’engage dans une action à cet égard et  constitue, avec le PNUD, 1’UNICEF et le PAM, une force synergique susceptible de relancer l’activité des  cantines scolaires.
12.10 Nous sommes convaincus d’autre part, Monsieur le Président, que l’éducation formelle universelle  assurée par le système scolaire conventionnel n’est pas un objectif r&liste susceptible d’être atteint d’ici l’an
2000. C’est pourquoi, solidaire de la Déclaration mondiale sur l’éducation pour tous, qui appelle a élargir les  moyens et le champ de l’éducation fondamentale, le gouvernement du Mali a élaboré, depuis quelques mois,  une stratégie alternative d’expansion et de revitalisation du système d’éducation de base. Elle consiste à  rechercher les différentes voies permettant de résoudre les problèmes de la sous-scolarisation et de  l’analphabétisme, puisqu’elle doit répondre aux besoins tkiucatifs fondamentaux des jeunes de 9 à 15 ans,  totalement analphabètes, des jeunes déscolarisés de 9 à 15 ans également, des jeunes de plus de 15 ans et des  adultes analphabètes totaux, partiels et néo-analphabètes. Le gouvernement du Mali compte naturellement sur  lUNESC0, sur les ONG et autres donateurs de la communaute internationale pour appuyer techniquement et  financièrement cette nouvelle stratégie, qui témoigne éloquemment de l’engagement de mon pays en faveur des  buts de Jomtien.
12.11 Monsieur le Président, le Mali note avec satisfaction que l’UNESCO retient comme deuxième priorité,  dans le domaine de l’éducation, la rénovation et le progrès de l’enseignement supérieur ainsi que la réforme des  systèmes éducatifs dans leur ensemble. A ce titre, nous accueillons favorablement les actions d’appui à  l’innovation, la recherche et l’information en matière d’education. Aucun système éducatif ne saurait se rénover  aujourd’hui sans utiliser les technologies de l’information et de la communication. C’est pourquoi nous  soutenons particulièrement les programmes d’initiation des enseignants aux applications pédagogiques et  technologiques de l’information et de l’informatique. En effet, Monsieur le Président, qui ne sait que le  développement durable auquel l’humanité aspire ntkessitera le recours, dans une mesure sans précédent, aux  sciences et technologies de toutes sortes ? Voilà pourquoi nous appuyons le projet interdisciplinaire et de  coopération interinstitutionnelle.
12.12 Monsieur le Président, je ne saurais terminer mon intervention sans souligner combien les cinq  premières années du programme de l’UNESCO intitulé “Décennie mondiale du développement culturel” ont  contribue a une prise de conscience de l’importance et du rôle de la culture dans le processus de développement.  Mon pays, profondément enraciné dans sa culture, a entrepris differentes actions venant couronner celles de  l’UNESCO, qui ont abouti entre autres au classement des villes anciennes de Tombouctou et de Djenné et du  Sanctuaire naturel et culturel de Bandiagara sur la Liste du patrimoine culturel mondial. Recemment, des  missions culturelles ont été installées pour mieux mettre en valeur ces sites et faire prendre conscience aux  populations locales de leur responsabilité dans leur défense et leur promotion. Nous exhortons l’UNESCO à  resserrer sa coopération avec les organisations internationales compétentes en vue du renforcement des mesures  de lutte contre le trafic illicite des biens culturels et à mobiliser la communauté internationale en faveur des  initiatives de recherche sur les communautés. C’est là une condition de l’instauration dune culture de paix  fondée sur les droits de l’homme, la tolérance, et la démocratie.
12.13 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, le Mali salue les efforts entrepris par l’UNESCO pour mieux maîtriser  les dépenses de personnel, les frais de voyage et le coût des services contractuels. Nous espérons que cette  réduction contribuera au renforcement du budget consacré aux activités. En tout état de cause, ma délégation  félicite le Conseil ex&n.if pour l’examen minutieux qu’il a fait du Projet de programme et de budget et  demande a la Conférence générale de reprendre a son compte les amendements proposés par le Conseil exécutif  à sa 141e session. Le document du Secrétariat, enrichi par ces apports, permettra sans aucun doute à l’UNESCO  d’affronter avec succès les défis de cette fm de siècle. Je vous remercie.
(13) The PRESIDENT ( ranslation from the Arabie):
1 thank Mali’s Ambassador to France and cal1 on His Excellency Dr Liboire Ngendahayo, Minister of  Education and head of the delegation of Burundi, to take the floor.
14.1 M. NGENDAHAYO (Burundi) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Honorables délégués, au nom du  gouvernement du Burundi, je voudrais présenter à M. Sayyad mes sincères félicitations pour sa brillante  élection a la présidence de la vingt-septième session de la Conférence générale. Je formule le voeu que nos  travaux places sous son auguste direction soient couronnés de succès. Mes felicitations s’adressent également à  Mme Bernard-Meunier, présidente du Conseil exécutif, pour le talent et la perspicacité dont elle a fait preuve  dans la conduite des travaux des sessions du Conseil. Je voudrais enfin remercier le Directeur général de  l’UNESCO, M. Federico Mayor, pour la tenue des présentes assises et le féliciter pour sa r&lection a la tête de  l’Organisation qui sera, j’en suis persuadé, confmee par la Conférence générale. Le Burundi salue aussi  l’entree dans notre Organisation de nouveaux Etats membres et se réjouit ainsi du renforcement de l’universalité  de l’UNESCO. Par ailleurs, mon pays apprécie particulièrement les efforts déployés par le Directeur général  pour faciliter le retour au sein de l’UNESCO des pays qui l’ont quittée.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, à l’aube de cette décennie, les perspectives d’un conflit mondial tendent à  disparaître, même si l’on continue d’enregistrer, ici et là à travers le monde, des conflits sous-régionaux où des  vies humaines sont inutilement perdues. Malgré cela, les revendications en matière de libertes fondamentales  accélèrent dans de nombreux pays la pousstk démocratique. A cet égard, on remarquera qu’en cette seule  année 1993, des élections libres et pluralistes ont Cté organisées dans plusieurs pays d’Afrique, même si les  résultats officiellement proclamés n’ont pas toujours correspondu à l’expression de la volonté populaire. Le  Burundi n’est pas resté à la traîne dans ce processus de démocratisation du continent, puisqu’il a connu ses  premières élections réellement démocratiques au mois de juin dernier. Ces élections ont porté au pouvoir  S. Ext. Melchior Ndadaye ainsi qu’une Assemblée nationale, élus au suffrage direct par la population.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d’évoquer solennellement devant cette auguste Assemblk la  mémoire de S. Ext. Melchior Ndadaye qui vient d’être sauvagement assassiné dans la nuit du 20 au 21 octobre,  avec le Président et le Vice-Président de l’Assemb& nationale, le Ministre de l’administration territoriale et du  développement communaJ et 1’Administrateur général de la documentation nationale et des migrations. Les  auteurs de cet acte ignoble sont des militaires de l’armee burundaise. Par cet assassinat, mon pays le Burundi  vient de fane un grand pas en arrière dans sa marche vers la démocratie, au moment où il émit cité en exemple  et faisait la fierté de toute l’Afrique.
14.4 D’aucuns pourraient se demander comment on en est arrivé la. Sans trop entrer dans l’histoire  contemporaine de mon pays, on retiendra que la population du Burundi est composée de trois ethnies : les  Twa, les Hutu et les Tutsi. Contrairement a la situation que l’on rencontre dans d’autres pays d’Afrique, les trois  composantes ethniques parlent la même langue, ont la même culture et occupent indistinctement le même  territoire national. Cette situation particulière au Burundi et au Rwanda résulte de l’occupation  vraisemblablement pacifique du territoire par les trois composantes ethniques a la suite des différents  mouvements migratoires. La société traditionnelle du Burundi était très hiérarchisée et les trois ethnies se  caractérisaient notamment par des activités socioprofessionnelles différentes : les Twa vivaient essentiellement  de la poterie, de la cueillette et de la chasse, les Hutu pratiquaient l’agriculture ct les Tutsi l’élevage de bovins,  même si ce schéma s’est progressivement modifié au cours des temps. Dans cette même sociéte traditionnelle, la  vache occupait une grande importance et servait de référence socio-économique si bien qu’un clientélisme  sociopolitique s’est érigé autour d’elle. C’est par ce biais que certains membres de l’ethnie tutsi se sont  progressivement hissés au sommet de cette société hiérarchisée t organisée sous forme de monarchie. La fin du  XIXe sibcle fut marquée par l’arrivée du colonisateur, qui maintint le statu quo sur le plan politique et aggrava  même la situation sociale puisque les écoles furent prioritairement ouvertes aux enfants des membres de l’ethnie  tutsi.
14.5 C’est ainsi que l’élite du pays, au moment où le Burundi accéda à son indépendance politique, le  ler juillet 1962, appartenait presque exclusivement a la même ethnie. Mais les quelques rares intellectnels hutu  revendiquèrent rès vite leur participation a la gestion des affaires et une lutte s’engagea entre l’intelligentsia  hutu et tutsi pour la conquête ou la conservation du pouvoir politique. Elle déboucha sur les massacres  ethniques de 1965, de 1969, de 1972 et de 1988, avec pour conséquence l’épuration sous la forme de l’exclusion  d’éléments hutu de l’armée, et, dans une moindre mesure, de l’administration aussi bien publique que privée.  Les seuls massacres de 1972 coûtèrent la vie, d’après certaines sources, à plus de 300.000 personnes et en  envoyèrent autant en exil. L’assassinat du Président Ndadaye survient au moment où s’organisait déjà le retour  volontaire des réfugiés qu’il avait inscrit dans son programme politique.
14.6 Lorsque le vent de la démocratie souffla dans les pays de l’Est et sur le monde entier, le Burundi ne fut  pas épargné et le Président Melchior Ndadaye prit une part très active a la lutte du peuple burundais pour sa
16  libération du régime militaire, parfois dictatorial, qui l’opprimait depuis 1966. C’est à la suite de cette lutte  opiniâtre qu’un multipartisme bridé et contrôlé fut enfin admis en mars 1992 et que le parti Sahwanya-Frodebu  dirigé par M. Melchior Ndadaye fut reconnu. Le programme politique de ce parti suscita l’adhésion dune  grande partie de la population. C’est dans ce cadre que M. Ndadaye fut élu au suffrage universel direct  Président de la République du Burundi le ler juin 1993, avec 65 % de suffrages exprimés. Lors des élections  législatives du 29 juin 1993, son parti Frodebu sortit à nouveau vainqueur des élections avec 80 % des suffrages  exprimés.
14.7 Monsieur le Président, il ressort de ce bref aperçu historique du pays que le Burundi vient de perdre en  la personne du President Melchior Ndadaye un grand chef d’Etat, un grand démocrate et un vrai patriote qui  avait fait de la question ethnique son combat et qui voulait sortir le Burundi du cycle de violence dans laquelle  l’avaient plongé les massacres ethniques des trois dernières décennies. L’ignoble assassinat du Président  Ndadaye par des militaires putschistes appuyés par quelques civils compromet gravement le fonctionnement des  institutions democratiques issues des élections libres des ler et 29 juin 1993. Dès les premières heures du  putsch, dans la nuit du 20 au 21 octobre 1993, tous les membres du gouvernement et de l’Assemblée nationale  ainsi que les hauts cadres de 1’Administration ’eurent la vie sauve qu’en se cachant. Au moment où je quittai  mon pays, presque tous les membres du gouvernement avaient trouvé refuge à 1’Ambassade de France et a
1’Ambassade d’Allemagne à Bujumbura. Ils souhaitent ous sortir de cette situation afin de pouvoir remettre le  pays sur les rails de la démocratie en assurant la continuitk des institutions, mais cela ne peut être possible que  si leur sécurité est assurée face à la menace dune armke presque mono-ethnique. C’est pour cela que le  gouvernement dirigé par le Premier ministre, Mme Sylvie Kinigi, a envoyé une requête aux pays amis, dont la  France, afin qu’une force militaire de protection soit très rapidement envoyée au Burundi et que les institutions  démocratiques oient protégées et maintenues. Cela permettrait par la suite la mise sur pied dune armée  vkritablement nationale, défendant l’intégrité du territoire et l’ordre public au lieu de s’adonner périodiquement  a des massacres de populations civiles.
14.8 Monsieur le Président, mon pays a été particulièrement ouché par tous les orateurs qui, du haut de  cette tribune, lui ont témoigné leur soutien et leur sympathie en condamnant sans réserve les putschistes qui  viennent endeuiller une fois de plus mon pays. Permettez-moi de leur exprimer, au nom du gouvernement du  Burundi et de son Premier ministre, notre profonde gratitude. Je profite de cette occasion pour lancer un appel  très pressant à la communauté internationale afin qu’elle vienne au secours de la démocratie au Burundi et  qu’elle envoie une force militaire de protection qui mettrait fin à l’aventure des militaires putschistes. Il serait  très regrettable que l’expérience du Burundi, qui faisait l’admiration de tout le monde et qui servait de modèle  de transition démocratique n Afrique, soit sacrifiée sur l’autel de la non-ingérence dans les affaires intérieures  d’un Etat souverain. La communauté internationale est ici mise devant ses responsabilités et doit absolument  intervenir au Burundi, ne serait-ce que pour sauvegarder des vies humaines et faire respecter les droits de  l’homme dans ce pays. Hier, c’était Haïti, aujourd’hui, c’est le Burundi. Il faut que l’exemple de ces deux pays  serve de leçon et que, jamais plus, des institutions démocratiques mises en place par le peuple qui, lui seul,  détient la légitimité du pouvoir, ne soient remises en question par des aventuriers politiques de quelque bord  qu’ils soient.
14.9 Monsieur le Président, les événements malheureux que je viens de vous décrire surviennent au moment  où le Burundi s’efforçait de rapatrier et de réintegrer plusieurs dizaines de milliers de ses filles et fils exilés  dans les pays voisins et dont l’afflux quotidien vers la mère patrie posait déjà des problèmes. Le Président  Melchior Ndadaye et son gouvernement étaient déterminés à trouver la solution la plus adéquate possible à tous  ces problèmes. L’assassinat du Président Ndadaye et de ses proches collaborateurs vient donc de plonger le pays  entier dans la desolation la plus totale. Des centaines de milliers de Bumndais continuent encore de perdre la  vie. D’autres ont déjà pris le chemin de l’exil et les informations qui nous parviennent du HCR font déjà état de  plus de 675.000 réfugiés dans les pays limitrophes. Notre délégation soumettra une requête urgente au bénéfice  de toutes ces victimes.
14.10 Monsieur le Président, après un tableau aussi apocalyptique que celui que je viens de dresser du  Burundi, nous ne devons pas oublier que la liberté est encore inexistante dans certaines contrées, même si la  situation mondiale s’améliore globalement. De nombreux pays clament haut et fort de beaux principes pour  mieux réprimer toute velléité libérale. Les conflits armés et les guerres fratricides offrent le spectacle quotidien  de la barbarie humaine. L’immensite des souffrances et des destructions humaines provoqut?es par la violence  des guerres est toutefois sans aucune commune mesure avec les ravages causés par le plus grand scandale de  cette fin de siècle qui a pour nom la faim. Quels que soient la rudesse des conditions naturelles et les multiples  effets néfastes de démographies galopantes, rien ne peut justifier que des populations entières soient menacées  de disparition parce qu’elles manquent du minimum. Si ces situations demeurent le fait de contrées  particulières, les conditions de vie des populations de régions entières sont encore rendues précaires notamment  en raison du fardeau de la dette. La crise de la dette paralyse les économies des pays du tiers monde, mais elle
593    pourrait à terme affecter la croissance des pays créanciers si le probleme de la dette n’est pas jugulé à temps.  Dans de nombreux pays, la crise de la dette extérieure a consommé le divorce entre l’économique t le social et  a renforce les inégalités sociales au détriment de couches de la population de plus en plus pauvres et de plus en  plus nombreuses. Face a ces problèmes de développement, a la récession économique mondiale, la communauté  internationale doit s’interroger sur la recherche de voies nouvelles.
14.11 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation note avec satisfaction que le Directeur général de l’UNESCO  prévoit d’augmenter de 60 % les crédits prévus à l’intention des trois groupes cibles prioritaires. Néanmoins, il  nous paraît hautement souhaitable que cet effort transparaisse dans la réalisation des programmes. A ce propos,  nous n’avons pas bien perçu au cours du biennium actuel les retombées du programme “Priorité Afrique” pour  notre continent ; il va sans dire qu’une évaluation de ce programme permettra d’en connaître les effets réels et  de le reorienter, le cas échéant.
14.12 Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement du Burundi appuie le fait que l’UNESCO ait encore donné  pour l’exercice biennal 1994-1995 sa priorite à l’éducation de base pour tous. Nous sommes résolument  déterminés à faire en sorte que la promotion du droit a l’éducation au Burundi puisse se concrétiser par un actes  facile à l’enseignement primaire. Si notre pays a enregistré une certaine réussite depuis quelques années dans la  poursuite de cet objectif, il n’en reste pas moins que l’accès à lkole primaire était encore rendu difficile pour  certains en raison des disparités régionales en matière d’infrastructures, d’équipements et de moyens humains.  Le gouvernement du Burundi entend donc assurer une meilleure répartition de ces moyens en vue de permettre  l’exercice du droit à l’éducation. Cet effort devra permettre a très court terme la construction dune école  primaire sur chaque colline de recensement, le Burundi étant, comme d’aucuns le savent, un pays caractérisé  par son relief montagneux. Nous voudrions egalement insister sur la nécessité d’améliorer le contenu des  programmes de l’enseignement primaire et proposer qu’un programme spkcifïque de formation du personnel  éducatif en matière d’évaluation soit mis sur pied en faveur des pays en développement.
14.13 Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement du Burundi a particulièrement apprécié l’initiative de la  création dune commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle et en attend les conclusions et  recommandations avec beaucoup d’espoir. Si nous ne pouvons pas présager de l’écho que celles-ci recevront, je  puis vous assurer que nous en ferons une très large diffusion dans notre pays, aussi bien auprès des autorités en  général que des milieux intellectuels et scientifiques en particulier. Nous sommes heureux de constater le souci  de l’UNESCO de promouvoir l’enseignement technique et professionnel qui s’inscrit également parmi les  priorités de notre gouvernement, de façon à assurer une meilleure préparation au monde du travail.  L’enseignement sup&ieur est de plus en plus considéré comme le parent pauvre du système éducatif des pays en  développement, notamment en raison des contraintes liées aux politiques d’ajustement structurel. Ce  phénomène est prkoccupant car, comme on le sait, un véritable développement repose avant tout sur les  ressources humaines. Cette question fondamentale doit donc trouver une solution ou tout au moins faire l’objet  dune réflexion plus approfondie. Nous espérons que la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le  XXIe siècle pourra proposer de nouvelles voies. Nous sommes néanmoins d’avis que les volets “formation des  formateurs”, “ingénieurs” et “évaluation” devraient être renforces dans le Programme t budget 1994-1995.
14.14 Monsieur le Président, je ne voudrais pas abuser de votre temps ni de celui des autres orateurs qui vont  suivre. C’est pour cela que je ne m’étendrai pas sur les autres programmes qui nous ont été proposés. Mon  gouvernement voudrait néanmoins que l’éducation environnementale, en faveur surtout des jeunes et des  femmes, puisse constituer une priorité pour l’UNESCO et se concrétiser par des activitks de programme. Au  Burundi, ce souci est accentué par le fait que l’écologie est de plus en plus menacée non seulement par une forte  démographie, mais aussi par des incendies criminels de nos forêts et le dérèglement des saisons.
14.15 Notre commission nationale a formulé le voeu qu’une plus grande place soit faite à la culture dans le  programme, ce qui devrait évidemment se traduire par un accroissement des crédits alloués à ce secteur. Nous  souhaitons également que l’UNESCO s’engage davantage dans la promotion de la musique, de l’art, du dessin et  des autres formes d’expression culturelle. En outre, mon gouvernement est d’avis que l’UNESCO devrait  intensifier ses efforts visant à permettre la restitution des biens culturels à leurs pays d’origine.
14.16 Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions terminer en abordant certaines questions qui nous tiennent à  coeur et dont l’élucidation permettrait à l’UNESCO d’être plus opérationnelle. Le fonctionnement de l’UNESCO  souffre encore dune centralisation excessive au regard des effectifs du personnel bases au Siège et des dépenses  de l’Organisation consacrées à ce même personnel. D’autre part, la répartition géographique de celui-ci est  déséquilibrée, de nombreux Etats n’étant toujours pas représentés au sein du Secrétariat. Ces differentes  questions nous préoccupent et nous souhaiterions que la Commission administrative leur apporte des solutions  appropriées.
14.17 Monsieur le Président, la question des contributions des Etats membres apparaît de plus en plus  cruciale compte tenu des diffïcultis que rencontre l’Organisation dans sa trésorerie. Nul n’ignore que l’exécution  du Programme et budget pour 1992-1993 a été entravée par les manquements de nombreux Etats à leurs  obligations. Les nombreuses personnes qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune ont toutes exprimé leur attachement à  l’UNESCO, à ses idéaux et à ses programmes. Si certains pays sont en butte à des problèmes qui compromettent  leur existence même et les obligent à suspendre leurs activités sur la scène internationale, beaucoup d’autres,  pauvres comme riches, peuvent s’acquitter de leurs engagements internationaux. C’est de notre volor&  collective de résoudre cette question precise que dépendra la vie future de l’Organisation. Vive l’UNESCO, vive  la coopération internationale ! Je vous remercie.  (Mr Zain Asis, Argentina, takes the floor)
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Many thanks, Your Excellency Dr Liboire Ngendahayo, for your graphie presentation. Now 1 shall give  the floor to representatives of non-govemmental organizations, while reminding them that the time allowed to  each should not, SO far as is possible, exceed five minutes. First, 1 give the floor to Mr Rao Chelikani, President of  the NGO Standing Committee.
16.1 Mr CHELIKANI (President, NGO Standing Committee):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, 1 have the honour to speak to you as  President of the Standing Committee as well as the Conference of Non-Govemmental Organizations convened  every two years at UNESCO Headquarters in accordance with the resolution adopted at the eleventh session of  the General Conference of UNESCO in 1960. Our main objective is to serve as a forum for examining the  problems arising out of NGO co-operation with UNESCO and with govemments.
16.2 UNESCO, this great and noble institution, was established by men of vision in order to build bridges  between various dynamic components of civil societies ah over the world: these components are academic,  cultural, social, artistic, literary, professional and voluntary non-govemmental associations which are formed  by the free Will and initiative of the people themselves. As we learnt from philosophers such as Locke and  Rousseau, it is the people who entered into a social contract and formed a civil society: they pay taxes and  maintain governments which, in tum, are expected to protect and promote the civil society, including ah its live  forces. And today, these societies, whether in the North or in the South, whether their economies are developed  or developing, are under severe stress due to unenvisaged, undirected transformations in values in the minds of  individuals as well as in the social institutions. There is suffering causcd by poverty, il1 health, injustice,  unemployment, insecurity and violence, not to mention intermittent civil and regional wars. The depth and  magnitude of these problems cal1 for a total mobilization of the entire society, and especially its incontestably  active elements, for example voluntary movements and associations, to join hands with the government.
16.3 1 am sure that it has not escaped your attention that many local, national and regional NGOs are  emerging on the international scene and are actively participating in the world debate on issues of vital  importance for the future of mankind. In countries where this associative movement has no national roots, the  State has every interest, and even the obligation, to promote its growth and extension. UNESCO, as well as the  Standing Committee of NGOs, could help the Member States, if solicited.
16.4 ‘Education for ah’ is the latest example of the need for partnerships. Most of the developing countries  have illiteracy, low-quality and inappropriate education as the main obstacles to their social and cultural  changes. The Jomtien Conference of 1990 on Education for Al1 has acknowledged that a ground-level  partnership between govemments, associations, United Nations agencies and the private sector is indispensable  to tackle this gigantic problem. And ail the governments have agreed to pursue this approach. An International  Co-ordinating Committee of NGOs has been formed with the active support of UNESCO, UNDP, UNICEF and  the World Bank; its secretariat is with the Standing Committee at UNESCO Headquarters. Its main objective is  to promote partnerships and networks of NGOs with other actors of the civil society. We have already initiated  networking at subregional level in South Asia and in Eastem and Southem Africa. We are planning similar  consultations for Eastem and Central Europe and Western and Central Africa. We look forward to the active
595    co-operation of the governments in these regions for the success of these initiatives. We cari envisage such  partnership networks in other regions also, if the Member States show their interest.
16.5 Again, let me take the examples of the International Year of the Family and the International Year for  Tolerance, to be observed respectively in 1994 and 1995. On the issues of human attitudes and human  institutions, it is most appropriate that there are intensive concertation and complementary working relations  behveen NGOs and governments. For our part, the Standing Committee of NGOs would like to make the  International Year for Tolerance a landmark for the development of a culture of peace at the level of individuals  in their day-to-day behaviour and at the level of institutions in their raison d’être and in their modus operandi.  Here we need support of the National Commissions to relate our work to local realities.
16.6 Promoting inter-faith, inter-cultural understanding, respect for the mle of law and democratic values,  together with the qualities of sharing, caring, dialogue, tolerance and non-violence is a long and patient  educative process which governments alone cannot undertake directly. That is why our fervent appeal to  governments is to involve as many associations as possible in the fmmework of the National Commissions for  UNESCO in order to pursue the objectives of UNESCO at the ground level.
16.7 In concluding, 1 should like to thank the Member States and the Secretariat for the unfailing support  they have been extending to NGOs individually as well as to their collective bodies, ail these years - support  which is unparalleled in the annals of the United Nations system, even today, even when UNESCO is  undergoing stringent budget exercises. 1 thank you ail in the name of over 580 NGOs which are maintaining  contacts with UNESCO.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation fiom the Spanish):  Thank you very much. 1 now invite Mr Robert Harris to take the floor. Mr Harris is Ekecutive Director  of Intergovemmental Relations of Education International.
18.1 Mr HARRIS (Education International):  Mr President and distinguished delegates, a new organization has corne into being, an organization  which represents over 18 million teachers and other employees at ail levels of education in 132 countries. That  organization, which 1 represent oday, is Education International.
18.2 This International was formed by two bodies, the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession (WCOTP) and the International Federation of Free Teachers’ Unions (IFFTU), which had  a long history of co-operation with UNESCO. We welcome the Executive Board’s decision to extend this  co-operation by applying WCOTP and IFFIU’s consultative status in category A to the new International.
18.3 Why did we form this new organization? Quite simply, we felt that the time had corne to focus the  collective strength of educators and their fellow workers in such a way that the momentum for change would be  irresistible. We had had enough of resources for education being tut, year after year. We had had enough of  declining access to school for children and Young people, increasing Child labour, increasing exploitation of  women and girls, even while the rhetoric of public discourse decried these evils. We had had enough of assault  on teacher morale, of the downgrading of qualifications, of the ad hoc arrangements for their employment, and  of denial of their right to organize. We had had enough of expressions like ‘education reform’ being misused as  a caver for economic rationalization. In a Word, we had had enough of policies which had impoverished  education and had diminished the greatest vocation in the world, the vocation of teaching.
18.4 And we are increasingly concemed by the growing signs of breakdown in society, breakdown in  values, breakdown in respect for human rights, respect for justice, equity and freedom. We were alarmed by the  growth of racism, xenophobia, inter-ethnie hatred and religious intolerance. And SO we decided the time had  corne to act.
18.5 Act we Will, at the national level. Govemments: be prepared for increasingly focused and coherent  action by our member organisations - tbe national education unions. Let me say to you today, reach out to  them; you Will find them to be critical and tough negotiating partners. If you recognize the cssential egitimacy  of these organizations as advocates for committed people - teachers and other education workers - you Will find  them ready to work with you. But if you try to undermine the principles of international instruments which
16  have stood the test of time, such as the UNESCO/lLO Recommendation on the Status of Teachers, be assured  that our colleagues in your country will receive massive support
18.6 Act we Will at the international level. More than ever, the collective strength of educators Will focus,  not uncritically but constructively, on the United Nations and on the Specialized Agencies such as UNESCO  and lL0.
18.7 Mr President, we applaud the new assertiveness of UNESCO in the fïeld of education: the Education  for Al1 Initiative with the World Bank, UNICEF and UNDP; the World Education reports; the publication of  critical policy discussion papers; and the establishment of the International Commission on Education for the  Twenty-First Century. Together with the Organization’s Education Sector, we are studying how we - the  practitioners in education - cari best support these important initiatives during the coming biennium.
18.8 We strongly commend the Director-General, his colleagues and the Executive Board for their success  in giving UNESCO new impetus, drive and focus. We cal1 on the Governments of the United States, United  Kingdom and Singapore to delay no further their retum to UNESCO membership. We would like to think that  an announcement by the United States is imminent.
18.9 Education International is acting in relation to economic agencies such as the World Bank and the  Organisation for Economie Co-operation and Development (OECD). We recognize the leadership role of these  institutions in questions of allocation of resources. But we emphasize that UNESCO, with the International  Bureau for Education (IBE), should be the lead agency of the United Nations in exchanges between nations on  matters of educational policy. The World Bank is giving welcome new attention to education and dramatically  increasing its lending. Fine, but we assert hat the Bank is wrong to propose that countries enter the twenty-first  century basing their education on nineteenth-Century concepts. That cari only increase the cleavages between  North and South.
18.10 Mr President, Education International Will act at all levels, and especially with UNESCO, to tum back  those dark forces which are surging once again to the surface, bringing civil war and famine, and threatening  regional and international peace. As we meet, children and Young people are the fus1 victims in dozens of  conflicts. In Kosovo, 350,000 children enter their fourth year of exclusion from public schooling and some
26,000 teachers try to provide, without pay, a minimum of education in garages and private homes. We  commend UNESCO’s efforts to protect the fundamental right of children to education, regardless of the  political conflicts which surround them.
18.11 We know that we are not alone in this determination to achieve change for the better. There is a sense  of shared purpose with many community organizations, with many of our fellow NGOs, present here today,  with many intergovemmental organizations, and, yes, with many governments. In industrialized and  developing countries alike, nobody seriously contests today that education holds the key to the future.
18.12 Mr President, we know that sufficient resources cari be made available for education, given the  political Will. We know that investment in education Will relaunch our economies and enrich our societies. And  we know that the time has corne to reassert those fundamental values in education which emerge from the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is that ethical mission which is shared by UNESCO and Education  International. Thank you.
(19) The PRESIDENT ( ranslation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Now 1 will give the floor to Mr Jean-Charles Devé, representing the Latin Union.
20.1 M. DEVE (Union latine) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-  moi, en premier lieu, de présenter les excuses et les regrets de notre Secr&a.ire gtnéral qui, alité, ne peut  participer à vos travaux cette semaine et en a les plus vifs regrets.
20.2 Je voudrais rappeler en trois phrases ce qu’est l’Union latine à l’heure actuelle. L’Union latine regroupe
30 Etats de langues et de cultures néo-latines, ce qui représente la quasi-totalité des Etats latino-européens et la  grande majorité des Etats ibéro-américains, les Philippines et un certain nombre de pays africains lusophones.
597    Ses objectifs sont voisins de ceux de l’UNESCO et consistent à promouvoir la compréhension et la coopkration  culturelles et intellectuelles, afin de parvenir à un meilleur développement par la mise en valeur du patrimoine  commun et une meilleure connaissance réciproque. Un accord de coopération lie l’Union latine et l’UNESCO.
20.3 Sans entrer dans les details, nous aimerions souligner quelques-uns des points qui font la spécificité de  notre Organisation. Constatant que la diversite et la connaissance des langues sont essentielles au  développement des nations, constatant la similitude des langues romanes, des langues néo-latines, l’union  latine s’efforce de multiplier l’enseignement de ces langues, et tout d’abord dans les pays de langues néo-latines.  C’est ainsi qu’avec le soutien financier de la Communauté européenne, dans le cadre du programme “Lingua”,  ont été créées plusieurs dizaines de méthodes “d’apprentissage fonctionnel” basées ur la pratique des metiers  les plus courants et permettant aux jeunes professionnels de langues espagnole, française, italienne et  portugaise de se procurer rapidement les outils nécessaires à la communication directe dans les pays frères.
20.4 Mais la vitalité dune langue repose sur sa capacite d’exprimer les concepts contemporains, en  particulier dans les domaines scientifique et technique. Or, beaucoup des langues contemporaines presentent  des lacunes qui rendent difficiles l’enseignement et la recherche, pourtant facteurs majeurs de développement.  L’Union latine travaille donc en permanence à aider ses Etats membres à enrichir ce vocabulaire scientifique et  technique, en realisant l’inventaire des lacunes, en préparant des méthodes de création néologique, en créant  des associations de terminologie et des banques de donnees accessibles à tous et en particulier aux traducteurs et  aux chercheurs. Car la creation terminologique n’est pas tout, encore faut-il la faire accepter, la faire connaître  et surtout la rendre disponible. L’Union latine, avec le soutien actif de l’UNESCO et du CRESALC de Caracas,  est donc en train de terminer une étude de faisabilité sur la création d’un réseau télématique en Amérique latine  et aux Caraïbes dont la mise en place devrait permettre, a faible coût, la liaison entre tous les chercheurs du  sous-continent travaillant dans leur langue propre a des projets communs et enrichissant ensemble leur propre  banque de données scientifiques, techniques et tcrminologiques. L’Union latine et le CRESALC s’attachent  également à rendre ce moyen de communication accessible à tous, et non pas aux seuls informaticiens, en  simplifiant I’accès a la communication telématique t électronique t son emploi, qui sont actuellement réservés  à un tout petit nombre de specialistes. L’important est de rendre accessible les sources d’information scientifique  au plus grand nombre possible de chercheurs et d’étudiants et nous espérons que l’expérience en cours, en  Amérique latine et aux Caraibes, pourra servir de modèle à une mutation de l’accès a l’information au plan  mondial.
20.5 Notre Secr&aire général tient a souligner à quel point l’aide de M. Federico Mayor nous a éte précieuse  et a permis la mise en commun de nos ressources humaines dans un domaine de compétences étroites, ou les  specialistes ont rares. L’étude relative au réseau télematique de recherche et d’éducation en Amérique latine et  aux Cam&es, qui est fïnancCe par la CEE, a permis d’initier une cooperation exemplaire entre nos trois  Organisations.
20.6 Sans insister sur les autres projets communs à WNESCO et a l’Union latine, en particulier dans le  domaine culturel déjà Cvoqué ici par notre Président, S. Ext. l’ambassadeur de Roumanie auprès de l’UNESCO,  le Secrétaire géntral souhaite cependant informer les participants à la Conférence générale de l’excellent  accueil que reçoit auprès de nos membres le principe d’organiser, en octobre 1994, une table ronde sur “La  latinité et l’enseignement mutuel des langues latines, facteurs de compréhension internationale” à laquelle  participeraient les Ministres de l’éducation réunis à Genève par le Bureau international d’éducation de  lTJNEsc0.  (El orador continua en espaiiol)
(20.7) Finally 1 should like to refer to what one of the delegations said yesterday: the most important thing is  not the development of communication, but the importance of communication for development. Thank you.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. TO proceed, 1 should like to invite MS Kicki Nordstrom, representative of the World Blind  Union, to the platform.
22.1 MS NORDSTRGM (World Blind Union):  Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, 1 am blind from birth. 1 cannot sec you,  but 1 hope that you cari hear me. 1 beg you to listen to my message.
22.2 1 represent here today the World Blind Union (WBU). As Chairperson of ils Women’s Committee 1 am  responsible for the implementation of a plan of action recently adopted by the Union. The most important point  in that plan is literacy for women. Roughly 1 per cent of the population in the developed countries is blind or  visually impaired. From that 1 draw the conclusion that at least 30 million women in the world belong to the  same category.
22.3 Among those 30 million blind women, we cari find a great number who cannot read or Write.  Mr President, the Women’s Committee wants to work very hard on that subject. Many speakers in this debate  have mentioned women and literacy; some have mentioned the disabled; no one has mentioned how to create  literacy for the disabled. Something has to be done, now and rapidly.
22.4 Mr President, tbe 1990 Jomtien Declaration has also given a clear priority to literacy for girls and  women. We need more knowledge about ways and means of rendering blind women literate. We also need  concrete models. This also goes for other groups with communication disabilities, such as the mentally  handicapped and the deaf. The right to learn to read and Write is a human right, also for the disabled, and the  Jomtien Declaration has also underscored this.
22.5 Mr President, 1 want to see a few, very carefully planned pilot projects in the developing world, in co-  operation with organizations of the disabled. It is also very important to try to link these projects with already  existing literacy programmes, and here 1 recall the regional literacy programmes of UNESCO and their  experiences SO far. In fact, 1 have already had fruitful contact with UNESCO, where 1 have obtained realistic  advice and ideas on how to proceed in my work with the pilot projects.
22.6 IvIr President, 1 need now the Sens&ation and awareness of politicians and decision-makers to be able  to fulfil my mandate. The next step is to identify alliance partners, and my mission at the General Conference is  to introduce the work of the Women’s Committee of WBU; and also to look for partners for continued  discussion on the literacy pilot projects.
22.7 Mr President, to be a blind person does not mean mat you are not capable of doing what every one else  wants to do. Il is society itself which erects limits for disabled people. 1 am myself an example of that  conclusion. 1 am a social anthropologist. 1 have a family with five children, a civil career and an international  mission.
22.8 1 want all blind women to have the chance to master their own lives. Therefore, Mr President, we also  necd to train blind women as leaders for this purpose. This, too, forms part of the plan of action of the Women’s  Committee. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 appeal for your attention and help, to fulfil this task. 1 have  more than 30 million blind, adult sisters waiting.
(23) The PRESIDENT ( ranslation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much indeed. TO continue, 1 invite Mr Ahmed Derradji, representative of the  International Association of Democratic Lawyers, to take the floor.
24.1 M. DERRADJI (Association internationale des juristes démocrates) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs,  permettez-moi tout d’abord de présenter, au nom de l’Association internationale des juristes démocrates que j’ai  l’honneur de représenter, et en mon nom propre, nos vives félicitations à M. Ahmed Saleh Sayyad a l’occasion  de son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale. Ses qualités intellectuelles et sa profonde  connaissance des problèmes de l’UNESCO sont les garants du succès de nos travaux. A Monsieur le Directeur  général, je voudrais exprimer notre profonde gratitude pour l’intérêt qu’il porte à notre coopération avec  l’UNESCO ainsi que notre admiration et notre soutien aux efforts qu’il ne cesse de déployer dans le domaine  particulier de la paix, des droits de l’homme et de la démocratie.
24.2 L’Association internationale des juristes démocrates (AIJD), créée en 1956, comprend plus de
100 associations nationales et a pour tâche de contribuer, dans le domaine du droit, à la réalisation des buts
599    inscrits dans la Charte des Nations Unies et l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO en ce qui concerne la défense et la  promotion des droits de l’homme et le maintien de la paix. Elle entretient des relations d’information et de  consultation avec l’UNESCO et le Conseil économique t social.
24.3 Monsieur le Président, les changements profonds qui bouleversent le monde, l’implosion que subissent  certaines régions, la montée de l’intolérance, des haines raciales et ethniques et les intégrismes ous toutes leurs  formes requièrent une vigilance accrue dans les domaines des droits de l’homme et de la démocratie. Les droits  de l’homme ne peuvent être exerces que dans un cadre démocratique et la démocratie ne peut exister sans  l’exercice des droits de l’homme. En étouffant la démocratie, c’est le cas des dictatures, on tue les droits de  l’homme, et en détruisant systématiquement e massivement ces derniers, on tue la démocratie. Chacun de ces  deux phénomènes a une action directe sur l’autre, qui peut être tantôt constructive, tantôt destructrice. Par  ailleurs, la démocratie ne peut être un modele uniforme à travers le monde. Chaque cadre institutionnel épouse  son environnement. Mais cette constatation e peut en aucun cas justifier le déficit de démocratie constate dans  certaines régions. L’un des plus grands défis du XXIe siècle consistera à promouvoir la démocratie et les droits  de l’homme.
24.4 L’UNESCO, conscience du monde, carrefour des idées et des cultures, est l’Organisation par excellence  la plus qualifiée pour assumer cette mission, à travers notamment l’éducation et sa contribution à l’édification  dune “culture de paix”. C’est à partir de l’enfance que l’on doit faire prendre conscience de la démocratie, du  respect de l’autre et de la tolérance. C’est par l’éducation que l’on peut y parvenir. Le plan d’action mondial pour  l’éducation aux droits de l’homme et a la démocratie, adoptée par le Congrès international de Montréal, a  réservé a ces objectifs et moyens une large place.
24.5 Les objectifs et les activit& pertinents que propose le Directeur général dans le Projet de programme et  budget pour 1994-1995, répondent aux préoccupations et aux inquiétudes manifestées a travers le monde. Le  programme V.2 du champ majeur de programme V définit ces objectifs et activités, auxquels nous souscrivons  entièrement, notamment les activités relatives à une “culture de paix”, à la prévention des conflits sociaux, à la  protection des droits des minorités, a la relation entre démocratie, droits de l’homme et développement et à la  mise sur pied d’un système complet de formation et d’éducation aux droits de l’homme et à la démocratie. Pour  la réalisation de ces actions, soyez assuré, Monsieur le Directeur général, que l’AIJD est tout a fait disposée à  s’associer aux études et réunions prévues.
24.6 Pour conclure, je voudrais souligner l’importance de deux grands événements historiques conduisant a  la paix : le processus d’élimination de l’apartheid et d’instauration de la démocratie en Afrique du Sud et  l’accord israélo-palestinien du 13 septembre 1993 qui constitue une étape tres importante vers le rétablissement  de la paix et la réalisation de tous les droits légitimes du peuple palestinien. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
(25) The PRESIDENT ( ranslation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. And now 1 give the floor to Mr Stephen Mills, Secretary-General of the  International Social Science Council.
26.1 Mr MILLS (International Social Science Council):  Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 am fully aware of the  great privilege of addressing a plenary session of the General Conference of UNESCO on behalf of the  International Social Science Council (ISSC) - a category A non-govemmental organization.
26.2 Today, ISSC brings together - in its many and various networks - thousands of social scient& in  many different regions and countries. With our small UNESCO-based secretariat, together with secretariats in  Barcelona, Bergen and Geneva, we seek to synergize tïve sets of actors.
26.3 First, there is the United Nations system, which requires social science advice and support. Here in  particular there is UNESCO, which has the unique mandate in the United Nations family to stimulate social  science, and is extending and upgrading its activities in part through the MOST programme, where ISSC looks  forward to a symbiotic relationship between independent social science professionals and govemmental  representatives with their own special responsibilities.
26.4 The second set of actors, those who have traditionally participated in ISSC, are the international  professional disciplinary associations of social scient&. We now network over 30 of these worldwide
16  associations, many of which depend vitally on UNESCO’s financial support to allow them to CO-ordinale and  lead their unique world for the benefit of humankind.
26.5 The third set of actors, which is becoming increasingly important, are the govemment social science  research councils and academies of science. Thanks to the 1992 change in the ISSC Constitution, they are now  directly represented in the Council’s govemance structure.
26.6 Fourthly, ISSC is seeking to mobilize regional centres and networks in the social sciences. It has  worked closely witb a number of European and Mediterranean countries on a draft resolution to the General  Conference to replace the Vienna Centre, which has benefïted from 30 years of hospitality from Austria, with a  new global, multi-focal and multi-thematic network.
26.7 The fifth and final set of actors takes the form of the very special contribution of the ISSC itselfi its  fïve current global projects, which relate to the human dimensions of global environmental change; to  comparative research on poverty; to urbanization; to conceptual and terminological analysis; and lastly, to early  warning systems to prevent conflicts. These projects bring together many social scientists to work on  international phenomena from a global perspective.
26.8 ISSC is also negotiating witb the respective parties, including UNESCO, with a view: to playing a  leading role in the 1995 Copenhagen World Social Summit which is its special preoccupation; to providing  African universities and social scientists in Africa with social science information and data bases on CD-ROM;  to launching jointly witb UNESCO an annual state-of-the-art publication on the social sciences; and, fmally, to  holding an international symposium on systems and societies in transition.
26.9 Mr President, ISSC has more than 40 years of proud achievement and fruitful co-operation behind it.  We look forward with equal confidence to the future. UNESCO is changing, and the International Social  Science Council is changing too. On 12 January 1993, Professor Federico Mayor wrote: ‘The non-govemmental  organizations are, as ever, one of the main sources of inspiration to UNESCO and 1 am convinced that they  constitute a particularly privileged means of making the Organization’s work in their spheres of action known  throughout the world’. ISSC has in the past matched up to Mr Mayor’s vision, it does SO today, and 1 am sure  Will continue to do SO in the future. Thank you for your attention.
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, h4r Mills. 1 now invite Mr Jean Rouch, representative of the International  Council for Film, Television and Audiovisual Communication.
28.1 M. ROUCH (Président du Conseil international du cinéma, de la télévision et de la communication  audiovisuelle) : Chers amis, je voudrais tout d’abord remercier du fond du coeur Federico Mayor pour l’appel solennel  qu’il a lancé dans cette même salle, hier, pour le sauvetage du patrimoine cinématographique à l’occasion de la  célébration du centenaire du cinéma.
28.2 Notre association, le Conseil international du cinéma et de la télévision, a été créée en 1958 par  l’UNESCO, “considérant que les sons et les images appartiennent au patrimoine culturel de l’humanité et que  leur conservation et leur diffusion sont de nature à mieux faire connaître et comprendre l’histoire et les  différentes civilisations du monde”. Depuis, notre Conseil a élargi le champ de ses activités à la  “communication audiovisuelle”, dont Jean-Michel Arnold vous a déjà parlé avant-hier. Je m’en tiendrai au  cinéma.
28.3 Notre Conseil international du cinéma et de la télévision est un observatoire permanent de l’état de la  création et un lieu de réflexion sur un patrimoine cinématographique maintenant centenaire. Le CICT a, plus  que tout autre, vocation pour soutenir, répercuter et amplifier l’appel solennel de Federico Mayor en faveur de  la sauvegarde et de la restauration des films. On n’insistera jamais assez sur la nécessité d’optimiser et  d’accélérer l’effort entrepris depuis plusieurs années par les cinémathèques du monde entier, qui savent que  chaque année de retard entraîne la mort définitive de chefs-d’oeuvre que l’on ne retrouvera plus jamais.  Empêcher que le patrimoine ne se dégrade et disparaisse, c’est aussi le préserver de la folie des hommes qui le  détruit à des fins politiques. Notre Conseil oeuvre en ce sens depuis longtemps déja, à travers l’une de ses  organisations membres concernée par le document filmé, l’INNA-News, qui a dû procéder à des restaurations et
603    des “sauvetages” (au sens premier) de centaines d’heures de füms constituant une source essentielle de  documents d’histoire arrachés ainsi a la ferocité des iconoclastes.
28.4 Mais je voudrais prolonger l’appel solennel du Directeur général en vous alertant sur l’agonie des salles  de cinéma. Dans toute l’Afrique noire, dans toute l’Amérique du Sud, un peu partout en Europe, les salles, qui  étaient un lieu de rencontres et déchanges laïques aussi importants que les églises de campagne, ferment les  unes après les autres parce que, à leurs portes, se vendent - a un prix inférieur a celui du billet - des  vidéocassettes pirates. Le rôle qu’avaient ces salles dans tous ces pays en voie de développement était  considérable. C’est là que se rencontraient les gens dune petite ville, les gens d’un village, c’est là que l’on  discutait de l’histoire du monde, réinventant quelquefois ou réinterprétant des films tournés dans d’autres pays.  C’était l’écho d’un monde qui arrivait au milieu de la brousse, de la savane, ou de la grande forêt. Il ne s’agit pas  ici de s’insurger contre le progrès, mais de vous inviter tous, dans vos pays respectifs, à sauver ces lieux de  communication populaire où, comme l’a dit si joliment Freddy Buache, directeur de la cinémathèque de  Lausanne, “des spectateurs partagent ensemble les mêmes émotions”. Comment, me direz-vous ? Eh bien, par  exemple, en lançant un appel pressant aux sociétes de telévision du monde entier pour qu’elles ouvrent ou  rouvrent des salles de cinéma, afin d’y projeter sur grand écran, chaque semaine, le meilleur de leurs  programmations, à l’exemple de la chaîne japonaise “Nippon Audiovisual”, que je tiens à saluer ici. Ceci est  très important pour l’évolution du cinéma. L’un des points essentiels est ce que nous appelons le “feed-back”,  c’est-à-dire le moment extraordinaire où un réalisateur se trouve dans une salle, comme celle-ci, et assiste à la  projection de son film devant des spectateurs. C’est comme cela que, peu à peu, se forment les cr&ueurs ; il n’est  pas meilleure école.
28.5 J’ajouterai trois propositions liees au Centenaire du cinéma, que je vous demande de soutenir : la  première est le projet de la FIPRESCI visant à établir une histoire mondiale de la critique cinématographique,  et cela en toute liberté. La seconde st une exposition internationale itinérante de la cinématographie, proposée  à notre Conseil par nos amis italiens qui, avec l’appui du Conseil de l’Europe, la lanceront depuis le Festival de  Venise en 1995, pour un périple autour du monde. La troisième est un projet un peu fou, comme seuls les  cinéastes peuvent en avoir, dune fête internationale du cinéma. Le CICT a déjà consulté un certain nombre de  pays membres afin qu’ils sélectionnent un film modèle. L’ensemble de ceux-ci constituerait un “Programme du  Centenaire”, projeté en même temps dans tous les pays du monde. Notre Conseil, pour amorcer cette initiative,  proposerait l’Atalante, de Jean Vigo, en se souvenant d’Henri Langlois qui disait : “Un homme, un seul, a réussi  à faire un tout homogène du cinéma parlant. C’est Vigo. Il a pris le son, l’image, la musique et les a  fusionnés .. . je dis bien fusionnés, pas mixés. Et le résultat, c’est l’Atalante (1934)“.
28.6 Par ces initiatives qui, je l’espère, vous mobiliseront ous, le CICT se veut et le gardien et le promoteur  des oeuvres cinématographiques de ce siècle. Mais il entend devenir aussi le gardien de la mémoire de leurs  auteurs, car à quoi servirait de conserver les films, si on ne conservait pas l’image et les témoignages de ceux  qui les ont faits. Je vous remercie.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. TO continue, 1 invite MS Grete Marstein, representative of the International  Association of Art. to take the floor.
30.1 MS MARSTEIN (International Association of Art):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my presence here today is essentially as an artist bearing  testimony on the life and the reality of visual artists and the work of the International Association of Art (IAA),  which 1 represent not only on behalf of its President, and as the leader of the European Regional Commission,  but also on behalf of our six cultural regions.
30.2 Three guiding principles inspire IAA’s programme as adopted at our twelfth General Assembly in  Madrid, in 1989: improving the condition of creators of visual arts; using, for this pur-pose, decentralized  meetings at the level of each of the IAA cultural regions (each meeting being called upon to examine the  situation of the visual artists and to propose concrete solutions); and encouraging the establishment of new  national committees in countries where IAA is not yet represented. Following these decisions, meetings were  organized in Bolivia, Republic of Korea, Germany, Finland and Tunisia. Seeking new avenues, IAA introduced  pilot projects and decentralized activities, financed by the association itself. These resulted in a video-cassette  on lost-wax casting techniques, produced in Burkina Faso; the publication of a data bank on visual art in
16  Norway; a sample publication on the visual arts, edited in Chile; and the publication, in Ireland, of a practical  guide to the establishment of collective ateliers and workshops.
30.3 An exciting experiment, linking art to nature, to man’s environment, initiated by our German National  Committee and published in two large volumes entitled ‘Earth-Sign-Earth’, has been taken up by several  national committees and is still continuing. In addition, IAA publishes a bilingual newsletter, distributed to its
82 national committees, as well as the follow-up of several IAA questionnaires on various matters.
30.4 From ils inception 40 years ago as a reflection of UNESCO’s own universality, IAA has suiven to find  solutions to the most urgent needs of artists, as adequately as possible, as they occur in each country and region  of the member associations. These aims have been a constant for IAA: not in connection with commercial  phenomena, but as an urgent necessity; not only within scheduled projects, but directly, as when individual  member artists were ready to participate in manifestations in favour of peace in Dubrovnik and Sarajevo.
30.5 As far as priorities are concemed, they are re-examined and updated every three years. At our General  Assembly and Congress in Seoul, in December 1992, a notable change in the structure of the association was  sanctioned, emphasizing co-operation and exchanges within the six cultural regions. Regional vice-presidents  Will play a more active role in co-ordinating national activities and distributing information within their own  regions. Thus, with IAA activities focused on regions, there Will be a new challenge for national committees to  develop opportunities for national and regional financing in favour of their own projects.
30.6 Due to the importance it has for artists, and with a view to completing IAA reports on UNESCO’s  Recommendation conceming the Status of the Artist in 1996, seminars Will be convened, in 1994-1995 in  Kuwait, for the Arab region; in the Asia region, through collaboration between Japan, Philippines and the  Republic of Korea; in Poland and Estonia for the Europe region; in the Africa region; and in the Latin America  and Caribbean region.
30.7 An important issue discussed at the 1992 Congress in Seoul was the condition of visual artists in  societies in transition from agrarian to market economies. In this process, the traditional attitude - which  considered the need for artistic expression to be a natural component of a community’s culture - is broken. The  lack of an art market, during such transition, is a threat to the continuity of culture itself, to the creation of new  works and to all artistic activity in general.
30.8 As a bearer of cultural identity, the visual arts must not depend solely on a private art market. Society  as a whole must assume its responsibility in facilitating the creation and dissemination of visual art, in  protecting its freedom of expression, in safeguarding its diversity and pluralism and in stimulating cultural  identities and traditions.
30.9 Here, IAA is an indispensable charme1 of communication, TO artists in countries with emerging  market economies, the association network gives access to much-needed information on existing agreements  and legal structures conceming the status of the artist.
30.10 Mr President, a large number of artists’ associations are fragile constructions, entirely dependent on  the enthusiasm and idealism of a few individuals. TO compound this, we, the visual artists, differ from most  other working members of modem society in that we are self-employed and, in most countries, do no1 receive  any compensation for our work other than the sale price of the artwork itself. This makes our organizational  activity economically diffïcult, as no employer or institution exists which, in its own self-interest, Will subsidize  it. Given these circumstances, the level of activity of an association may vary greatly. This is why it is necessary  for IAA continuously to seek out authentic representatives in each country.
30.11 In limes of political, social or economic unrest - as at present in the eastem part of Europe - it is  essential to keep an open mind and give time to these ‘new’ countries to find their own way to organize.  Especially for them, the existence of an international secretariat and network is a necessity.
30.12 Although in most countries with a developed market economy art& have achieved, to some degree,  legal and social recognition as well as protection, they are now facing new, diiferent challenges. However, we  should bear in mind that a developed economy and high living standards do not necessarily extend to artists! In  an economic recession, artists have to face not only a decline iu the art market, but also cuts in government  budgets for Support&e systems for culture.
30.13 In Dublin in September 1993, 23 national committees met and produced a ‘Charter of Rights for  Visual Ar&ts’. This is based on UNESCO’s Recommendation conceming the Status of the Artist, but it is more  specilïc on tbe situation of visual artists. 11 Will be an important working mode1 and inspiration, at bath national  and international evels.
30.14 With the further development of a market economy, it is our experience that the product of the creative  process, the artwork, is treated increasingly as a piece of merchandise. But, from society’s point of view,  creative art also constitutes indispensable fundamental research, and should under no circumstances be treated  as a business.
30.15 An increasing problem that artists face is the obstacles to the free flow of their works. This is a threat  to the freedom of expression, as for visual artists the expression is inseparable from the artwork. It is IAA’s  duty, therefore, to increase awareness of this problem at bath national and international evels.
30.16 A major issue for IAA is to strengthen the status of artists, for only thus cari creators be active  contributors to and participants in intercultural and interdisciplinary collaboration in modem multicultural  societies. For IAA, the tore of this work is the individual artist, the creator of visual art, and the creative  process itself. Thank you.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, MS Marstein. At the risk of appearing somewhat arbitrary, since four speakers  still await their turn, 1 would request those about to speak not to exceed the five-minute limit. 1 shall now give the  floor to MS Marie-Paule Eisele, representative of the International Catholic Child Bureau.
32.1 Mme EISELE (Bureau international catholique de l’enfance) : Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués des Etats, la Conférence générale qui  réunit 181 pays est une occasion remarquable de mise en commun, de concertation et de prise de décisions pour  aider au progrès de l’humanité. C’est pourquoi, au nom de I’ONG que je représente auprès de vous, le Bureau  international catholique de l’enfance (BICE), je vous remercie de l’occasion qui nous est donnée de contribuer à  cette importante réflexion en vous communiquant nos inquiétudes, mais aussi nos espoirs et nos suggestions.
32.2 Nous sommes inquiets, car les informations qui nous viennent du terrain révèlent les situations de plus  en plus dramatiques que vivent un nombre considérable d’enfants à travers le monde, c’est-a-dire dans la  plupart de vos pays : faim, guerre, misère, abandon a la rue, absence d’éducation, etc., la liste est longue, toutes  situations alarmantes dont la Conférence mondiale sur les droits de l’homme, a Vienne en juin dernier, a fait  état dans son plan d’action.
32.3 Mais ces situations devraient pouvoir être améliorées. Vous êtes tous a un niveau de responsabilité où  vous pouvez agir, prendre ensemble les décisions qui peuvent changer le cours des choses, et cela des  maintenant. En effet, le Programme et budget de l’UNESCO pour 1994-1995 (27 C/5) peut, me semble-t-il,  offrir cette occasion. C’est l’un de nos espoirs.
32.4 Il faut créer les conditions favorables pour un “développement humain intégré” et pour une “culture de  paix” ; ce sont les termes mêmes du Directeur général de l’UNESCO dans son introduction. Pour ce faire, des  moyens efficaces peuvent être mis en oeuvre : renforcer la coopération internationale et la solidarité entre Etats  (la Convention relative aux droits de l’enfant en fait la demande expresse). Nous voyons dans cette convention  un excellent instrument pour ce faire, à condition qu’elle soit correctement et intégralement mise en oeuvre. Le  BICE est prêt à collaborer étroitement avec vous et avec l’UNESCO à cette lin, par des actions très précises. A  cet égard, nous regrettons que le 27 C/5 fasse si peu référence a la Convention relative aux droits de l’enfant.  Autre point : intensifier les efforts en ce qui concerne l’éducation et la formation. Ce point est pour nous  primordial, car il est la clé d’accès à un vrai développement et a une promotion des personnes. De nombreux  programmes du BICE s’y consacrent directement ou indirectement.
32.5 C’est pourquoi le BICE, notre Organisation, souscrit à plusieurs points du 27 05, qui rejoignent en  grande partie ses propres programmes.
32.6 Dans le champ majeur de programme 1 - L’Éducation et l’avenir -, nous pouvons énum&er les  efforts pour améliorer la qualiti et la pertinence de l’éducation de base pour tous ; la mise en oeuvre de  politiques appropriées pour les enfants d’âge pr&colaire ; le programme SHARE, avec le HCR et l’UNICEiF  (bien entendu en y incluant les enfants) ; le soutien au milieu familial et a la promotion de la Convention par  des approches novatrices auxquelles notre Organisation est prête à contribuer activement ; et notamment les  travaux de la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle, auxquels le BICE souhaite être  étroitement associé pour un renouveau pédagogique qui soit soucieux du développement intégral de l’enfant en  tant que personne, donc de la sp&ifïcité de la dimension spirituelle, et qui fasse référence aux conditions  nouvelles d’existence (médias, sexualité, environnement et violence).
32.7 Dans le champ majeur de programme III, concernant la culture : la promotion de la lecture chez les  enfants ; la culture et le tourisme (le BICE soutient une campagne de lutte contre l’exploitation sexuelle des  enfants par le tourisme) ; l’amélioration du dialogue interculturel ; le soutien aux identités culturelles.
32.8 Dans le champ majeur de programme V - Sciences sociales et humaines - : l’amélioration des  connaissances ur de nouvelles formes de discrimination, notamment en ce qui concerne les enfants  appartenant à des groupes défavorisés. Dans la démarche pour une éducation à la paix et à la tolérance, le BICE  propose d’intensifier les échanges et activids diverses entre enfants de cultures et de religions différentes, dans  un esprit de solidarité et d’estime mutuelle. Dans un effort pour instaurer un climat de démocratie et de respect  des droits de l’homme, à une époque où tant de scandales de corruption, etc., sont dévoil&, il conviendrait de  mettre en oeuvre la question de la “transparence” dans tous les domaines, afin que le monde des adultes  devienne pour les enfants un signe positif et non un monde de d&espt%ance.
32.9 Enfin, la perspective de l’Année internationale de la famille nous réjouit, car elle offre un excellent  moyen de lutter contre les situations dramatiques dont j’ai parlé plus haut. En effet, l’ONU invite la  communautt5 humaine à prendre conscience des “ressources et responsabilitis de la famille dans un monde en  mutation”. L’enfant, pour naître, grandir et se d&elopper harmonieusement, a besoin d’être entouré par une  communauté d’amour et, certes, la famille offre ce premier lieu, qui devrait être sécurisant, d’apprentissage de  la vie et de la relation humaine. La famille est la cellule constitutive de la société ; elle s’enracine dans l’amour  d’un homme et d’une femme et elle unit plusieurs gén6rations. L’enfant a droit à une famille, à une communauté  d’amour qui l’accueille. Le BICE, qui apporte son soutien à la famille dans un grand nombre de ses  programmes, souhaite que l’AIF soit, pour les Etats et la communauté internationale, l’occasion de reconnaître  que la famille est une valeur.
32.10 Le BICE s’attache également à promouvoir deux approches pédagogiques originales : il s’agit de la  “résilience”, mettant en oeuvre, chez certains enfants mais aussi dans certaines familles, la possibilité de puiser  en eux-mêmes, face aux difficultis, des moyens de réagir et de s’en sortir, d&eloppant ainsi leurs propres  capacit& de résistance et de progrès. L’autre s’appelle “philosophie pour les enfants” et leur permet de se  développer au mieux de leur potentiel humain.
32.11 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, si nous voulons aider ce monde à  progresser, c’est par les enfants qu’il faut commencer. “Gardez-vous de mépriser aucun de ces petits !” nous dit  Jésus-Christ. Je vous remercie.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. TO proceed, may 1 ask Mr Jean-Claude Pecker, representative of the International  Humanist and Ethical Union, to corne to the platform.
34.1 M. PECKER (Union internationale humaniste et laïque) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Presidente du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur gén&al, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis sa fondation, en 1952, notamment  par Sir Julian Huxley, son premier President (et premier Directeur général de l’UNESCO), l’Union  internationale humaniste et laïque a poursuivi son action sans relâche, avec une attitude constante, celle de  considérer l’espèce humaine comme un tout, comme une entité ayant une unité naturelle. Certes, nous sommes  hommes ou femmes, nous sommes français, allemands, ou chinois, nous sommes jaunes, blancs, ou noirs, nous  sommes bouddhistes, musulmans, chrétiens ou athées . . . mais nous sommes des êtres humaines d’abord ; et  notre sentiment d’appartenance ZI l’humanité est prioritaire par rapport à nos autres appartenances.
34.2 On évoque parfois la diversité des cultures comme une grande richesse. C’est vrai ; mais elles ne  doivent pas cependant s’obstiner, au nom des traditions, à quadriller la terre de murailles, de reseaux de  barbelés ou de fossés d’incompréhension. Bien au contraire ! Nous voyons dans tout contact entre les cultures  non pas l’occasion d’un choc dangereux, mais bien plutôt le germe de développements pacifiques. Le métissage,  qu’il soit génétique ou seulement intellectuel, est un enrichissement. Que cet enrichissement soit possible et  que, dans notre monde de communication, il le soit de plus en plus, cela est la semence nécessaire, a nos yeux,  d’un avenir vivable.
34.3 Notre action est donc d’utiliser notre influence, de diffuser notre message auprès de toutes les.instances  possibles, de telle sorte que cette prise de conscience de notre appartenance prioritaire à l’humanité - à une  humanité en danger - soit respectke par les Etats, soit enseignée dans nos kcoles et pennètre nfin dans les  esprits.
34.4 Nous sommes bien conscients que dans cet effort, les buts de notre ONG sont très proches de ceux de  I’UNBSCO, et nous nous en réjouissons.
34.5 Car, si j’ai parlé d’un “avenir vivable”, c’est dans la mesure même où, malgré quelques progrès ici ou  là, de lourdes menaces pèsent sur les hommes et les femmes de cette planète. Une partie de ces menaces est  d’ailleurs le fait même dune humanité encore trop souvent inconsciente de la proximitk des dangers. C’est dire  qu’une approche rationnelle, scientifique, des problèmes de l’environnement, à l’échelle de la planète, est une  préoccupation pour nous comme pour I’UNBSCO. Le problème de l’équilibre planétaire est urgent ; il exige des  solutions rapides mais, je le répète, rationnelles. Nous craignons en effet qu’on ne se livre a des études locales,  voire de détail, et à des discours trop généraux. Or, les phénomènes physico-chimiques, biologiques,  demographiques, sociologiques, voire psychologiques, qui affectent directement ou indirectement notre  environnement, ces phénomènes ont dune extrême complexité. Ils sont étroitement intercorr&%s. Seule une  étude scientifique, sans inutile romantisme, mais aussi sans indulgence coupable, doit permettre d’aboutir à la  mise au point des législations appropriées, et à leur respect, dans tous les pays du monde. Nous suivrons donc  avec attention les efforts de l’UNESCO sur cette voie.
34.6 Un autre secteur, et qui nous préoccupe beaucoup, est le développement trop fréquent, dans trop de  pays, de violations officielles ou officieuses, des droits les plus élementaires de la personne humaine. Il faut  parler de la misère et de la faim. Mais il faut aussi parler de la surpopulation qui engendre la misère . . . et des  violences qui en sont le corollaire. Il est naturel que ces problèmes, sous leurs divers aspects, aient suscite de  vives réactions de la part de notre Union, comme d’ailleurs de 1’Academy of Humanism. Nous protestons contre  toute résurgence des mouvements fascistes, racistes, nazis, contre toutes les formes de xénophobie et de  discrimination. Nous protestons contre les atteintes à la libre circulation des idées, et le cas de Salman Rushdie  nous alarme vivement, entre autres. Nous protestons contre l’idée de “purification ethnique”, si contraire à notre  philosophie humaniste, et contre les violences qui en découlent. Nous protestons contre l’influence destructive  de certains cultes et de nombreuses ectes. N’est-il pas jusqu’aux principales religions, dont certains esprits  extremistes e réclament, pour conduire encore aujourd’hui à de véritables guerres de religion ? Nous protestons  d’ailleurs contre le non-respect du droit des individus a avoir une religion, celle qu’ils veulent - ou a ne pas en  avoir. Nous protestons contre les atteintes au droit des femmes a disposer librement d’elles-mêmes, de leur  corps, de leur fécondité. Nous protestons contre les violences vis-à-vis des femmes et des enfants qui se  multiplient dans les pays pauvres et ailleurs. Nous protestons contre les complicites que trouvent ces abus dans  des pays plus favorisés. Nous protestons contre l’exploitation de la main-d’oeuvre enfantine à bon marche  offerte par le marché du travail dans les pays les plus pauvres.
34.7 Ces protestations ’appuient le plus souvent sur des textes approuvés, naguère, par l’Organisation des  Nations Unies, l’UNESCO, et les organisations apparentées. Nos resolutions, souvent tres détaillées, sont  naturellement communiquées à l’UNESCO, comme aux autres organismes concernés des Nations Unies, en vue  de soutenir leurs actions en direction d’un monde plus ouvert.
34.8 La terre, notre environnement, c’&a.it mon premier point. La sauvegarde des droits des hommes, des  femmes, des enfants, le second. Mais il ne servirait à rien de travailler dans ces deux secteurs i nous devions  oublier que la solution des grands problèmes passe par l’école. Ce sera mon dernier point. Où, sinon à l’école,  pourraient se former les mentalites qui permettront demain à la fraternité humaine d’être partout une réalité  vivante et durable et les attitudes qui permettront demain à la diversité des cultures d’être l’occasion de contacts  positifs et non plus celle d’affrontements meurtriers ? Nous demandons donc que les programmes scolaires,  partout, enseignent le respect des autres, a quelque famille spirituelle qu’ils appartiennent et de quelque origine  qu’ils soient. Nous demandons que ces programmes scolaires, partout, enseignent le sentiment humaniste  d’appartenance à l’humanité, et qu’ils fassent comprendre aux enfants les devoirs de chacun vis-à-vis de tous,
16  aussi éloignés et différents soient-ils. Nous demandons aussi que, des l’École, les enfants sachent respecter leur  environnement, local et planétaire ; qu’ils respectent la Terre - notre maison commune. C’est à l’école que se  construit le monde ouvert du siècle à venir. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vous remercie de  votre attention.
3.5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le représentant de l’Union internationale humaniste et laïque. J’invite maintenant  M. Block, de la Fédération internationale des PEN clubs, à prendre la parole.
36.1 M. BLOCK (Fédération internationale des PEN clubs) :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, Tocqueville disait naguère : “Les sentiments et les idées ne se  renouvellent, le coeur ne s’agrandit et l’esprit humain ne se développe que par l’action réciproque des hommes  les uns sur les autres . ..“. Il ajoutait : “Cette action est presque nulle dans les pays démocratiques. Il faut donc  l’y créer artificiellement. Et c’est ce que les associations peuvent faire . ..“.
36.2 C’est dans cette perspective que j’aimerais vous exposer le rôle que joue le PEN International  (Organisation mondiale des écrivains jouissant du statut consultatif de catégorie A), que j’ai l’honneur de  représenter ici et qui rassemble 14.000 ecrivains dans 120 centres et 90 pays, dans cette action réciproque des  hommes les uns sur les autres. Ce qu’elle fait côte à côte, au coude à coude avec l’UNESCO, mais aussi ce  qu’elle pourrait faire, car nous croyons pouvoir proposer a I’UNESCO, et par elle aux gouvernements, une  extension de leurs activités ou une découverte d’activités nouvelles.
36.3 Développer l’esprit humain par l’action réciproque des hommes les uns sur les autres . . . Mais d’abord,  pourquoi cette action est-elle si faible en démocratie ? N’est-ce pas que le citoyen y est pensé comme une  manière de souverain ? Les droits qui le protègent sont comme une forteresse. Pour assurer son autonomie, les  ordres anciens ont été brisés. Libre, égal en droit, il n’entre plus dans les hiérarchies traditionnelles. Aucun  échange ne lui est imposé. Il doit les inventer. Le service que des associations telles que la nôtre peuvent rendre  à ceux qui, dans la souveraineté isolante de la démocratie, se cherchent à tâtons, c’est de les aider à se trouver,  servant, ainsi que l’UNESCO qui prépare par la science et l’éducation, mais aussi par la culture et dans la  culture, cette conversation plurielle qui est la vie et la voix de l’humanité.
36.4 Action réciproque ? C’est d’abord l’affrontement des idées. Chacun de nos congres mondiaux - et nous  en eûmes quatre au cours de ce bieunium - est organisé autour d’un thème proche des preoccupations des gens  de lettres, mais où vous reconnaîtrez les thèmes essentiels de l’UNESCO. Si à Barcelone, au printemps de 1992,  nous nous sommes interrogés ensemble sur l’avenir du discours littéraire en tant que tel à l’aube du troisième  millénaire, n’est-ce pas dans l’espoir que, en confrontant les vues d’écrivains venus des cinq continents, nous  parviendrions à dégager, non seulement quelques idées, mais aussi un agrandissement de la conscience dans le  droit fil du projet culturel de l’UNESCO. Ce n’est pas un hasard si, au cours de ce même congrès et portes sans  doute par notre pressentiment de l’avenir, c’est sur la proposition de notre Centre israélien que nous avons  adopté a l’unanimité un centre d’écrivains palestiniens.
36.5 Cette perspective millénariste et le trouble qu’elle jette dans les consciences, qui fait l’objet direct et  indirect d’un nombre de vos programmes, c’est elle qui aura guidé aussi le Congres qui s’est tenu à Rio de  Janeiro, sur la confrontation de l’ecrivain et de la nature ou mieux, sur l’expression littéraire qu’il convient de  donner a ce dialogue et a cet affrontement qui dure depuis l’origine, mais s’est brusquement inversé au cours des  dernières années. La nature qui était un ennemi a vaincre est devenue une victime à protéger. Elle était notre  mère. La voila notre enfant. Dans ce renversement de la sensibilité, la littérature a un rôle à jouer, et j’espère  que, directement ou indirectement, l’UNESCO voudra bien associer notre organisation a ses efforts en vue de la  protection de la biosphère.
36.6 C’est dans ces deux perspectives intimement liées - millénariste et écologiste - qu’a eu lieu à Séoul, en  Corée, un colloque auquel participèrent 25 de nos centres d’Asie et qui était consacré au programme lancé  conjointement par nos deux organisations ur les principaux aspects de la littérature et de la poésie en Asie, en  cette fin de millénaire ; il s’agit dune enquête entreprise à l’échelle mondiale, étalée sur trois ou quatre  exercices biennaux et dont on espère qu’elle sera bientôt conclue par une publication qui devrait dresser un  tableau de la sensibilité même de l’époque.
36.7 Puis-je attirer votre attention sur le respect dont nous faisons preuve quant à la régionalisation,  puisque, sur les trois réunions mentionnées ci-dessus, lune a eu lieu en Asie, la seconde n Amérique latine, la  troisième en Europe. Car le lieu importe autant à l’agrandissement du coeur qu’au développement de l’esprit.  C’est aussi un autre temps : le plus douloureux des présents que le lieu où désormais, à notre suite, je vous  entraîne, à savoir la péninsule des Balkans. Nous avons créé un Comité des écrivains pour la paix, afin de
607    répondre aux défis de la guerre. On comprendra qu’il se concentre dans les Balkans, siégeant en Slovénie, pour  étudier le bouleversement qui s’est produit dans nos idées et nos sentiments du fait de la guerre qui déchire  l’ancienne Yougoslavie, et qui a gagné la mer Noire, la mer Caspienne. Cette interrogation a eu pour centre, en
1992, “Le glaive et la plume”, c’est-à-dire ce que peut celle-ci pour briser le règne de celui-la, et, en 1993,  “Suis-je le gardien de mon frère ?“, question par laquelle on entendait ranimer, renouveler les responsabilités et  la solidarité internationale des écrivains et de la littérature dans les conflits armés. Ce thème fut repris par une  réunion de nos centres balkaniques à Ankara. Ces efforts devaient aboutir au Congrès historique de Dubrovnik  qui, avec l’aide et la participation de l’UNESCO, fut organise en Croatie en avril dernier. Le thème disait  I’essentiel : “Le lieu comme destin”. N’est-il pas extraordinaire, en effet, que la tragédie humaine, et pas  seulement celle de l’Europe, paraisse, de dkennie en décennie, revenir se jouer sur les mêmes scènes, par  exemple dans ce site de Dubrovnik où 300 écrivains du monde se souvenaient d’un passé récent, puisque c’était  dans le même lieu, le même théâtre que, sous la présidence de H.G. Wells, le PEN International avait chasse, il y a 60 ans, les écrivains nazis de son sein.
36.8 C’est sur une autre préoccupation, mais tout aussi intimement lice à I’UNESCO, que je voudrais  maintenant attirer votre attention. Il s’agit de notre Comité des traductions et du droit linguistique, qui s’efforce  d’alerter les écrivains sur le rôle qu’il leur appartient de jouer dans la traduction et la diffusion des littératures  écrites et d’organiser des échanges. Alertés par l’UNESCO, nous avons pris conscience des langues en péril  dans le monde. Cette anxiété nous a conduits à adopter, lors de notre Congrès d’automne à Saint-Jacques de  Compostelle, la déclaration qui portera le nom de cette capitale des pèlerinages, où nous reconnaissons que  chaque langue constitue une vision du monde originale, irr&upérable si elle venait a être perdue, et nous  demandons àchacun d’entre nous de faire de son mieux pour la sauver.
36.9 Mais s’il y a les langues, il y a les hommes. Si Salman Rushdie nous a rendu visite au Congrès de  Saint-Jacques de Compostelle, c’est pour affirmer, en même temps que sa résolution à défendre sa propre  liberté, sa solidaritt! avec tous les autres écrivains qui souffrent dans le monde pour leur liberté d’expression,  dans la défense de leur droit d’écrire, et que, en votre nom, nous avons adoptés. Ils sont hélas encore plusieurs  centaines auxquels nous apportons secours et réconfort et pour lesquels, devant les gouvernements, au nom des  droits de l’homme que ces mêmes gouvernements, au nom des droits de l’homme ont reconnus, codifiés,  instaurés, il nous appartient de témoigner et de revendiquer.
36.10 Pour être moins tragique que celle de l’écrivain en prison, la condition de l’écrivain femme, notamment  dans les pays du tiers monde, demeure difficile et humiliante. Notre Comité permanent de la femme écrivain  vient d’organiser à Francfort une rencontre Nord-Sud à ce sujet.
36.11 Par toutes ces activités - et le temps me manque pour les décrire toutes - nous croyons que, comme il  convient a une ONG à laquelle vous avez accordé le statut consultatif de catégorie A, nous avons assuré le  renouvellement des idées et des sentiments ou, du moins, y avons participé. Nous espérons avoir bien servi la  communauté internationale, et avant tout l’UNESCO qui nous a accordé sa confiance, et avoir rendu les coeurs  et les esprits plus sensibles à son message t plus dignes d’épouser sa cause, qui est aussi celle de la culture,  c’est-à-dire de ce qui, en l’homme, est le plus humain. Merci.
37. Le PRESIDENT : Je remercie le représentant de la Fédération internationale des PEN clubs. J’invite maintenant le  dernier orateur, Mme Hélène Ting, représentante de Pax Romaua, Mouvement international des étudiants  catholiques, à prendre la parole.
38.1 MS TING (International Movement of Catholic Students):  Mr President, distinguished elegates, dear friends, before 1 begin, 1 should like to underline one thing.
1 am speaking here not just for my organization. 1 have been given a mandate to speak for the millions of youth  and students in the five continents, with the widest diversity from one end of the globe to the other. They are  represented by the different groups gathered under the network of the Collective Consultation of International  Youth NGOs.
38.2 Youth NGOs - who are we? We have different histories, origins and ways of functioning. However, we  have one thing in common: our mission for youth, with ~011th and, in some cases, even by youth. Through our  various organizations, we give space for yomh to be formed, involved and to form themselves, to learn to make  decisions and be responsible, in real-life situations, not in theory; to learn to lead and participate. With the  growing materialistic tendency in rapidly developing societies, the escalation of unemployment and economic  crises everywhere, the most affected victims are generally youth. We have an increasingly challenging and  crucial task ahead of us. We observe that formal education institutions, hardly catching up with the rapidly
16  changing situations, cannot always fulfil the needs of an eager leaming and growing youth population in its  totabty. It is important to prepare them for their passage into adulthood SO that they become active, community-  minded and participatory citizens, to realise that ‘1 cari and do make a difference; 1 am not just another number  in the statistics; and hence, that 1 cari and should be responsible’.
38.3 Another important characteristic that is relevant to our partnership with UNESCO is that we are  international. The globalization process, involving international perspective, dialogue and a global solution to  specific problems, is becoming more and more pertinent and vital. We as international communities provide an  informai forum of exchange, exposure, learning and solidarity that formal schools and other educational  institutions cannot provide or substitute for.
38.4 Working with UNESCO, we appreciate the space of participation and contribution provided through  the structure of the youth collective consultation. This not only allows for the follow-up of specific issues of  interest for both UNESCO and the NGOs, it is also vital in the establishment of partnership between the two, as  well as in encouraging closer collaboration among the NGOs themselves. The joint projects among different  NGOs testify to tbis collaboration.
38.5 We also wish to express our support for the resumption of travel grants. Often, for Young people in  Asia, Africa and Latin America, this gives them the sole opportunity to be trained and to acquire a more  pluraIistic perspective of how society functions and its way of doing things, as well as the realization of the  relevance and sense of solidarity. Such exposure, friendship and exchange cari never be replaced through  reading or audio-vis& aids. This in the long run contributes to intercultural understanding, tolerance and  broadmindedness, which are all essential elements for peace. The Youth in Action programme stands as a solid  proof that Young people cari and do do something of significance for the betterment of their communities. Their  encounter aIso serves as an excellent opportunity for networking among themselves. Nevertheless, one thing we  regret very much is that the overall budget of the Division of Youth and Sports Activities bas been reduced by
55 per cent from its previous one.
38.6 We should like to enlarge and deepen this partnership of ours with UNESCO at all possible levels, and  in various domains of our competence, ranging from the cultural patrimony, popular and higher education to  human rights. For instance, apart from the systematic synthesis reflection we send to the International  Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century, we certainly are very interested to contribute a lot  more to this Commission. We believe that there is a lot of overlapping between the interests of UNESCO and  ours. We are ail concemed with the threats to durable peace, human poverty and misery and pollution, as well  as the inequitable distribution of wealth and resources on this planet. We invite UNESCO to tap adequately our  capacity for creativity and resources and articulation of our reading of the grass-roots realities. As international  organizations, we certainly seek relevant international and regional platforms for our actions. Oue of the  appropriate occasions of doing SO could be the tenth anniversary of International Youth Year and also the  ftitieth anniversary of UNESCO’s foundation in 1995.
38.7 TO conclude, as non-govemmental communities and often responsible people working voluntarily, we  would like to say that we have a specific part to play, distinct from the formal institutions. Being who and  where we are, we offer another point of view on the issues in the world as Young citizens. We are capable of  offering our rich grass-roots experiences of youth, their needs and hopes, their voice and actions to UNESCO.  Situated at the threshold of the hventy-first Century, if UNESCO is to be at the forefront of the current, it cannot  take lightly the central actors-to-be of tomorrow - the ~011th of today. Thank you very much for your attention.
(39) The PRESIDENT ( ranslation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. We have now heard the last speaker for this afternoon. The meeting is closed.  La séance est levée à 18 h.45  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.45
3aCe~aEIfe 3aKpbIBaeTcrr B 18.45  .L 1,to LWI v’ LgI ad,