Douzième séance plénière
2 novembre 1995 à 10 h. 15  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  puis : M. BAZANY (Slovaquie)  puis : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Twelfth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, after a day’s rest let us resume our work. We have a  solid list of speakers this morning, SO 1 would remind you that the time-limit for interventions is eight minutes.
1 would appeal to speakers to respect that time-limit. 1 would also remind you that the whole of your written  text Will be duly recorded and Will be taken into account by the Director-General when he is working on his  reply to delegates. Therefore, if you find that your text is too long, please do not read it all; the parts you have  left out Will also be studied. 1 am requesting your co-operation SO that we cari finish this session by 1 o’clock.
1.2 The lïrst speaker is H.E. Uladzimir Syanko, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus.
2.1 M. SYANKO (Bélarus) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Presidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, a l’occasion de votre  élection. Je souhaite aussi saluer chaleureusement les Etats qui ont récemment adhéré à notre Organisation.
2.2 A l’occasion de la célébration du cinquantieme anniversaire de l’UNESCO, je voudrais déclarer que la  République de Bélarus continuera à jouer un rôle actif dans toutes les initiatives de I’UNESCO et contribuera  aux efforts communs pour rendre cette Organisation encore plus efficace dans l’accomplissement de sa louable  mission.
2.3 Les circonstances actuelles exigent que l’on mette désormais l’accent sur les activités de l’Organisation  concernant la construction active d’une paix tournée vers l’avenir, par la promotion dune culture de la paix à  l’échelle mondiale, régionale et nationale. En tant que membre fondateur de I’ONU, la Bélarus contribue  largement au renforcement de la paix et de la sécurité universelles. Elle a refusé de son propre gré de posséder  des armes nucléaires et elle réaffirme sou statut d’Etat dénucléarisé. Elle a consacré d’importants crédits a la  destruction d’un grand nombre d’armements conventionnels dont elle a hérité à la suite de l’effondrement de  l’URSS. Elle poursuit la destruction de ces armements et compte sur l’assistance et le soutien de ses partenaires  dans ce travail.
2.4 Monsieur le Président, mon pays se heurte à de nombreuses difficultés. La Bélarus est un pays à  économie en transition. Les transformations radicales des bases constitutionnelles de l’Etat et de la vie politique  et économique ont mis en évidence les défauts considérables du plan social. La solution efficace des problèmes  sociaux est directement liée à la poursuite des réformes démocratiques engagées dans mon pays. Sans soutien  international véritable, la réalisation de ces réformes serait remise à une date indéterminée. Nous pensons que  l’UNESCO pourrait, conformément aux termes de son mandat, contribuer à créer des conditions propices à ces  réformes dans les domaines de sa compétence. C’est notamment dans cette optique que nous souhaitons que  l’UNESCO poursuive les efforts qu’elle a entrepris en ce sens au cours des dernières années. Il est important  qu’elle accorde aux pays qui traversent actuellement une période de transition l’aide dont ils ont besoin aux fins  du renforcement de leurs institutions démocratiques dans le cadre d’un programme spécial les concernant  directement.
2.5 Nous voyons bien que la marche vers le progrès dépend des générations à venir. Les pédagogues de  notre pays savent désormais que l’ancien système éducatif ne formait pas un individu adapté a la société, ne  correspondait pas aux exigences de l’époque. C’est pourquoi les réalités du jour font de nous des partisans  chaleureux du programme relatif à l’éducation permanente pour tous, laquelle est, sans aucun doute, un aspect  primordial du développement.
2.6 Monsieur le Président, Honorables délégués, en qualité de représentant de la Bélarus, j’ai le devoir  moral de vous parler des conséquences de la plus grande catastrophe qui ait frappé mon pays, la catastrophe de  Tchernobyl. On dit maintenant “avant Tchernobyl” et “apres Tchernobyl” (comme on disait autrefois “avant la  guerre” et “après la guerre”). Ce malheur, avec lequel nous devrons vivre plus d’une centaine d’années, prend  de multiples formes. Il est impossible de percevoir aujourd’hui la totalité de ses sinistres conséquences. Les  écologistes parlent de la contamination grandissante des sols. Les médecins enregistrent un accroissement des
12  cancers de la thyroïde parmi les enfants qui continuent à vivre dans ces régions contaminées. Mais que nous  reserve encore Tchernobyl pour demain ?
2.7 Tous ceux qui ne sont pas indifférents au sort de nos enfants sont avec nous dans ce malheur. Le  peuple biélorusse n’oublie pas que l’UNESCO a été la première organisation internationale a nous proposer son  assistance. Les centres de réadaptation psychologique destines aux victimes de la catastrophe qui ont été créés  avec l’aide de l’Organisation sont devenus des centres auxquels les gens qui habitent à proximité font appel en  toute confiance. La session en cours va examiner un projet de résolution relatif à la poursuite du programme  visant à atténuer les conséquences de la catastrophe de Tchernobyl. Nous comptons sur la compréhension de la  communauté internationale, représentée par cette assemblée, pour qu’elle soutienne cette résolution.
2.8 La catastrophe de Tchernobyl a contraint de nombreux scientifiques dans le monde à axer leurs efforts  sur la recherche de sources d’énergie de substitution. La Bélarus a l’intention de proposer a l’UNESCO un  programme de création de chaires UNESCO dans le domaine des énergies de substitution. L’expérience  tragique de mon pays témoigne de ce que l’étude des possibilités d’utilisation de sources d’énergie de  substitution, et en premier lieu de l’énergie solaire, doit être prioritaire pour l’humanité. Nous croyons que  l’utilisation de l’énergie solaire pourrait constituer un aspect prioritaire des travaux de notre Organisation.
2.9 Les recherches qui sont effectuées dans le cadre du programme “L’homme et la biosphère” intéressent  aussi directement la Bélarus, qui consacre beaucoup d’efforts à l’étude des problèmes d’environnement. Notre  pays voudrait s’appuyer plus fermement, dans ses recherches, sur sa coopération avec des scientifiques d’autres  pays. Ce programme offre la possibilité d’élargir le champ des recherches au plan pratique. C’est pourquoi la  Bélarus a proposé sa candidature pour être membre de son Conseil international de coordination.
2.10 Monsieur le Président, nous devons, au cours de cette session, adopter la Stratégie à moyen terme de  l’Organisation, dont nous voulons croire qu’elle donnera un nouvel élan à l’action de cette derniere. Ma  délégation réaffirme sa confiance et son soutien à cette stratégie. Nous espérons qu’elle sera appliquée avec  rigueur et que les choix appropriés seront opérés en ce qui concerne le projet.
2.11 Mesdames, Messieurs les delégués, les débats qui se déroulent dans le cadre de cette assemblée  concernent tous les hommes et montrent qu’il leur appartient de chercher et de trouver des compromis en  s’efforçant de se comprendre mutuellement au nom de l’humanité, de son avenir et de sa survie. Il y a près de
500 ans, le grand civilisateur et humaniste biélorusse Francisque Skaryna, qui a publié le premier livre du  monde slave, a dit “Homme, sois parfait”. Tâchons, dans nos débats, de trouver la concorde au nom de  l’homme, qui est la plus belle création de la planète. C’est pour cet homme, c’est pour la paix, c’est pour le  développement que nous nous trouvons ici rassemblés. Je vous remercie.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker is MS Patricia Gentry Edington, Head of the Delegation of the Observer  Mission on the United States of America to the General Conference.
4.1 MS EDINGTON (Observer Mission of the United States of America):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General Mayor, and delegates to  the General Conference; 1 want to thank you for SO graciously allowing me to speak as the representative of an  Observer Mission at this General Conference. Please also permit me, Mr President, to congratulate you on your  election to this office - and, Madam Chairperson, to congratulate you on your truly extraordinary service to  UNESCO as head of the Executive Board.
4.2 It is a very special pleasure and honour for me to be here on such an historic occasion as the upcoming  fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of UNESCO’s Constitution. The United States of America, an Observer  State of UNESCO, wishes to join with Member States and others in paying tribute to the democratic and human  values articulated in the Constitution and in its visionary and poetic Preamble.
4.3 Director-General Mayor is to bc congratulated on his leadership and commitment to constructive  change that has restored UNESCO’s focus on these fundamental constitutional principles. In the service of  human rights, the promotion of democracy and the free press, access to education for all, scientific  advancement, the tare of the environment, and respect for cultural heritage and ethnie differences, UNESCO  now provides valuable catalytic action in a range of fields that advance the common aspirations of humankind.
4.4 The United States of America looks forward to continued co-operation and dialogue with UNESCO  and its Member States in pursuit of the admirable goals embodied in its Constitution. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the Honourable Mia Amor Mottley, Minister of Education,  Youth Affairs and Culture of Barbados.
6.1 MS MOTTLEY (Barbados):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, on behalf of the Government and people of Barbados, 1 would like to join the other distinguished  delegates in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election, and indeed wish you a successful Conference.
6.2 My delegation is appreciative of the tireless effort of the Executive Board, the Director-General and the  staff which bas led to the successful execution of the mandate of UNESCO over the last biennium. 1 would also  like to congratulate UNESCO on the attainment of its fïftieth anniversary. This signifïcant milestone is being  observed in Barbados through the various activities planned by the National Commission.
6.3 Mr President, after 28 years of membership of UNESCO, this is an ideal opportunity for Barbados to  recommit itself to the goals and ideals of the Organization - the ideals of peace, democracy, international  understanding and tolerance. These goals take on an even greater importance in the context where prejudices  have led to ethnie conflict replacing the Cold War as the primary global concern.
6.4 If we understand, Sir, the uniqueness of the Caribbean region’s experience in this regard, namely that  in spite of our ethnie plurality, we have remained an oasis of relative political and social stability, we Will better  appreciate why we in the Caribbean have a story to tell. lndeed, a responsibility to tel1 a story which reflects  how we bave managed to keep persons of different ethnie backgrounds focused on the goal of national  dcvelopment, while still allowing them to survive and to preserve their individuality and differences at the level  of the family and. in some instance, the community.
6.5 This story cannot be told only in discussion papers, for it is not in forums such as this that attitudes  must change. lt is the individuals of those regions facing prejudice who must ‘develop peace in their minds’.  The story. thcrefore, must be told to them through books, through art, through dance, through music. But more  importantly, it must be told in a language and idiom that their age and educational circumstances Will allow  them to absorh.
6.6 Further, if we understand that technology has made it easier and cheaper to move information than to  move people. we Will also appreciate why the time is opportune for us to tel1 our story now and in those idioms  that evoke emotion and thought in individual men and women.
6.7 This exercise Will also serve to permit us, Caribbean people, to rid ourselves of the mental shackles of  colonialism which has bcqueathed to us a legacy of simply being the benetïciaries of fïnancial and  devclopmental aid to the exclusion of being donors. This is a developmental paradox which must be shattered if  WC are to succeed in allowing our countries, especially our Young people, to value our experiences in our quest
10 he truly independent and competitive. lndeed, Mr President, in order to develop fully, a country must be able  to vive as well as to take.
6.8 The ideas which 1 have just outlined span bath the draft medium-term development programme and  the programmes relating to the culture of peace.
6.9 If we could, with the assistance of UNESCO, collectively develop a series of primary school textbooks  from the Caribbean region which addresses equally the requirements of developing basic literacy, while at the  same time telling the story of Caribbean people’s day-to-day experience, we Will benefït not only the subregion  but also Africa, Asia and the Pacifïc, Europe, Latin America and North America. This Will not only provide  tools for the development of basic literacy, but also sensitize Young peoplc as to how we collectively and  individually meet the task of combating prejudice.
6.10 This is a programme, Sir, that requires greater assistance than cari be provided by the Participation  Programme. However, 1 do believe that it is worth our while considering it under the aegis of the Culture of  Peace programme.
6.11 Mr President, my delegation welcomes the consultative and democratic process which produced the  Draft Medium-Term Strategy and Draft Programme and Budget. The consultations, in which my country had  the honour to participate, permitted a cross-fertilization of ideas.
6.12 My delegation therefore welcomes and supports the Draft Medium-Term Strategy which sets out the  framework for UNESCO between 1996 and 2001. This document should place UNESCO in a position to assist  in addressing the myriad problems which threaten world peace, and to complement the developmental efforts of  our countries.
6.13 The Draft Programme and Budget for the 1996-1997 biennium is clearly presentcd and promotes  conciseness and transparency in the major programmes. The structure of the document is in line with the  recommendations which were made by Barbados during the consultation, namely, that UNESCO’s major  programmes should clearly reflect its fïelds of competence and serve to keep it on track, rather than venture  into other areas which could lead to duplication of efforts of the other Specialized Agencies in the United  Nations system.
6.14 Mr President, Barbados unreservedly supports the proposition that women, youth, the least developed  countries and Africa deserve special treatment. However, we believe that the small island developing States.  such as those of the English-speaking Caribbean and the Pacifïc, should be added to the list of priority groups  for special focus. The vulnerability of our countries, both to natural and manmade disasters, is suffïciently acute  for immediate and intensive action. The tragedy experienced by some of our neighbouring islands in thc  Caribbean during the past few months through natural disasters reinforces our fragility. In spite of the holding  of the fïrst global conference there, these small States have yet to receive appropriate follow-up participation by  the international community. This is necessary, Sir, if we are truly to develop and not be forced into the  ‘dependency syndrome’ to which 1 referred earlier.
6.15 Indeed, Mr President, our generation of leaders in Barbados fully accepts that the age of preferential  quotas has corne to an end. Furthermore, we accept that we must meet the challenge of competitiveness in the  global market-place. Certainly those sectors which have not had the benefit of preferential quotas and markets  such as tourism, international business and informatics, have far outstripped in performance those that have  enjoyed special treatment in the last 15 years. We strongly believe that Barbados, for the fïrst time since the  eighteenth Century, has the opportunity to make an impact on the global market economy, once we are prepared  to set policies in place which are designed to equip our people for the continued development of knowledge-  based and skill-intensive industries. Technology has SO developed to give us this advantage by cnsuring that  geography, size and the movement of people are virtually removed as obstacles.
6.16 People, therefore, must be at the centre of our development. Further, development must not be  restricted to purely economic terms but must encompass the wider issues of individual and community  development. It is in this context that my delegation supports the general concept of lifelong education and the  important areas of basic education for all. Having attained universal access to primary and secondary education,  the major challenge that faces us in Barbados is the improvement of the quality and relevance of our education.  My government has set as a priority, the achievement of’ improving the quality of education SO that the country  cari compete on equal terms in the global market-place, especially in thc knowledge-based and skill-intensive  industries.
6.17 It is for this reason, Sir, that we completed this year, a White Paper on Education Reform and havc  already bcgun initiatives relating to those areas that Will have the greatest impact on quality. More importantly,  we bave understood that our role as a ministry has changed from heing all-powerful to that of bcing a facilitator  and a regulator.
6.18 Mr President, the Caribbean region has already agreed on those areas vital to our interests as small  island developing States. With the thrust of Major Programme II on the transfer and sharing of scientific  knowledge, its succcssful execution should help to prepare our countries in the upgrading of their science and  technology capabilities. We have also agreed that our national agenda must reflect areas such as coastal zone  management, disaster preparedness, laboratory technology, solid waste management, alternative sources of  energy and environmental impact assessment.
6.19 The Caribbean subregion would also wish to participate in appropriate training programmes in the  social sciences. especially in relation to the preparation of sectoral analyses and the identification and  formulation of projects. In this regard, Mr President, 1 wish to stress the importance of appointing a  Subregional Adviser for the Social Sciences in the Caribbean as part of the decentralization process. This  would allow UNESCO better and more quickly to respond to our needs at a time when many of us arc  confronted with socio-economic problems especially associated with structural adjustment programmes.
6.20 lndeed, Sir, the importance of the cultural dimension in development cannot be stressed too strongly.  Barbados would wish to add its support for Major Programme III which focuses on cultural development: the  heritage and creativity. In particular, we would wish to participate in Programme III.1 relating to training in  conservation, especially since museums in the Caribbean including the Barbados Museum and I-listorical  Society are in dire need of this expertise.
6.21 However, 1 believe that the major area for development in this regard is that of cultural industries. As 1  have already indicated, we in the Caribbean have a story to tell. Our difficulties do not lie with the product or  the cost of producing it. They lie with our capacity to distribute, to promote and to market that product.  Consequently, my delegation has a deep interest in UNESCO’s efforts in connection witb the development of  cultural industries regionally and more particularly, the promotion of cultural tourism.
6.22 In addition, given the fact that the World Decade for Cultural Development Will corne to an end in
1997, Barbados believes that it would be timely and appropriate if adequate resources could also be earmarked  for the completion of the General History of Latin America and the Caribbean which is now long overdue.
6.23 Mr President, concerted efforts must be directed at the promotion of free flow of information at both  the national and wider levels. The Government of Barbados believes that the dissemination of information and  ideas is of vital importance in a democracy if the citizens are to make informed decisions on matters of national  importance. At the international level, UNESCO must assist in national capacity-building and in the provision  of appropriate advisory services in order to strengthen the position of the South, to send an increased amount of  high quality written and electronic information to the industrialized countries of the North by satellite or  otherwise. As 1 said earlier, it is still cheaper for us to move information than to move people.
6.24 Mr President, the objective which UNESCO hopes to achieve in the area of the development of  libraries, archives and documentation, including both electronic and paper-based transfer, throughout the  world, is indeed welcome. Barbados has a deep interest in the development of informatics, given the growing  offshore industry and informatics sectors. However, it has become necessary for small States such as those in  the Caribbean to move beyond the data-entry level to the higher value-added segment of the market, including  software programming and the like, if we are going fully to benelit from this sector, this is the area where  UNESCO, through the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme, is urgently needed. Appropriate training  and the necessary infrastructure must be made accessible to the subregion if it is to experience new levers of  development as we enter the twenty-first Century.
6.25 Mr President, 1 would wish to record my delegation’s general satisfaction with the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1996-1997. Successful implementation of the programme, together with the execution of the  two transdisciplinary projects, with a budget of $518,445,000 should contribute immensely to the United  Nations mandate of development for peace and peace for development.
6.26 Finally, Sir, attitudes must change if we are to make an impact in this world. This Will only happen if  people make changes in their day-to-day lives for themselves. Thus, the most we cari do is to offer powerful  examples of how others manage their differences. That is where we in the Caribbean cari assist. 1 cari only  repeat, Mr President, as 1 conclude, that we in the Caribbean have a story to tel1 that the world must hear!  Thank you.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is H.E. Mr Madhavrao Scindia, Union Minister of Human  Resource Development, and Head of the Delegation of India, who Will speak tïrst as the Indian representative,  and then in his capacity as Chairperson of the Group of 77.
8.1 Mr SCINDIA (India)’ :  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,  allow me, first of all, to extend my warm felicitations to you, Mr President, and to the other members of the  Bureau, on your election to these high offices. 1 also take this opportunity to welcome the new Member States  which have joined UNESCO. This General Conference has a special significance as in a few days we shall be  celebrating the tïftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of UNESCO. TO quote India’s first Prime  Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, UNESCO ‘essentially represents a great deal tu which eve? person of good Will,  who wants this world tu progress along the right lines, must necessarily subscribe’.
1 The complete tes of H.E. Mr Scindia’s statement, containing passages not delivered at the meeting, is reproduced in the Annex, p. 919
8.2 Mr President, we are happy that the United Nations and UNESCO are celebrating 1995 as the Year for  Tolerance and the hundred and twenty-tïfth anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi. This is a befïtting  tribute to the great apostle of peace, tolerance and non-violence whose mission and principles are more relevant  than ever in the present tintes.
8.3 As we march towards the twenty-first Century, education is going to play an increasingly pivota1 role.  TO be meaningful and socially relevant, education must serve as an agent of change and inculcate values  needed to neutralize the accumulated distortions of the past. Education must be fostered to play a positive,  interventionist role in correcting social imbalance, in empowering women and in securing a rightful place for  linguistic, religious or regional minorities in a nation. Equity in education is a prelude to social and economic  equity.
8.4 1 wish to complement the Director-General on his timely initiative in setting up the International  Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century with distinguished personalities including Dr Karan  Singh from my country. We are looking forward to the report of the Commission which we are happy to know  Will be released at the final meeting of the Commission in New Delhi, in January 1996.
8.5 Another initiative to which 1 would like to pay tribute is the bringing together of the nine high-  population countries which unfortunately account for 70 per cent of the world’s illiterates. The Delhi Summit of  the EFA-9 and the follow up meetings have been invaluable in reinforcing our national wills to achieve EFA  goals. The allocations for the EFA-9 efforts should be enhanced SO that the EFA initiative, recognized as a  priority, is carried forward briskly to its logical conclusion.
8.6 At the Delhi EFA Summit, our Prime Minister, Mr Narasimha Rao, announced the decision to  enhance the allocation for education to 6 per cent of GDP by the turn of the Century from the present level of
3.7 per cent. In absolute terms, this implies a near tripling of the annual public expenditure on education from  US $8.7 billion to US $22.1 billion. Further, the Constitution has been amended to vest the Panchayat, the basic  governing unit of the political and administrative system in India’s rural areas, with the management of  primary education. Another far-reaching Constitutional Amendment reserves one third of a11 elective offices in  local bodies for women, thereby catapulting 1 million women into elected positions of decision-making. 1 need  not elaborate the impact of such a quiet democratic revolution on the national endeavour to universalize  primary education.
8.7 The complete written text of my speech elaborates our endeavour and perceptions in the tïelds of adult  literacy, primary education, vocational education, nutritional support to primary education and culture.
8.8 Since the last General Conference, we have received the World Science Report which presents some  alarming figures about retrogression for developing countries in their access to scientifïc and technical know-  how. We expect that UNESCO Will make possible the transfer of technology from developed to developing  countries. We welcome the constitution of the Advisory Committee on Science. This is of great intcrest to  India, which has the second largest pool of scientists and engineers in the world. Our government is ready to  offer the facilities available at our educational and research institutions and laboratories for thc establishment of  collaborative linkages with institutions in other member countries and to undertake joint programmes for  research and training through UNESCO.
8.9 In the information and communication area, we are looking at the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC) as playing a key role in strengthening the communication capacities of  the developing countries. We are concerned that there are glaring imbalances and inequities in access to  information between developed and developing countries. These should be adequately addressed. The free flow  of information should be multi-directional, and a11 the more SO as new information highways arc being set up.
8.10 Mr President, 1 wish to say that the resources and capacity of a11 organizations being limited, the  collective efforts of the multilateral system Will be optimal only if a11 the bodies concentrate on their ow-11  specific mandate. We would, therefore, advise caution on UNESCo’s taking up the development ol  humanitarian law in its programme. We are also not convinced of the justification of burdening the UNESCO  Secretariat with the task of developing the concept of the ‘right to humanitarian assistance’. This undoubtedly  important task would be more suited to the Red Cross, the Commission on Human Rights or the United Nations  General Assembly.
387    X.11 In conclusion, Mr President, 1 wish at this historic General Conference, to reiterate my country’s  commitments: to increase our investment on education to 6 per cent of GDP with the major focus on women  and the girl Child; to universalize elementary education and achieve the EFA goals as set out in the Delhi  Declaration, 1993; to make literate 100 million adult illiterates by 1997-1998; to universalize the Integrated  Child Development Service (ICDS) SO as to enhance mother and Child tare programmes to reach out to every  corner of the country; to formulate and operationalize a National Policy on Women which Will continuously  guide and inform action at every level and in every sector; to set up a Commissioner for Women’s Rights to act  as a public defender of women’s human rights; and to institutionalize a national-level mechanism which Will  monitor the implementation of the Beijing Platform of Action.  x.12 Distinguished delegates, in a world of increasing interdependence, national commitments must be  complemented by commitments at the international level, particularly through commitments for resources.  Standing on the threshold of the twenty-fïrst Century, let us resolve to create a world where there is greater  harmony and where every individual and every society have the opportunity to fulfïl their intrinsic creative  potential. 1 hope that this historic Conference Will outline the vision of UNESCO’s role in the coming 50 years.  We sec the Organization as the appropriate international forum for a global exchange of ideas, experiences and  thought. Its mandate makes it obligatory for UNESCO to reaffïrm the primacy of ethics and values in a11 forms  of human endeavour, and therein lies the hope and future of humankind.  x.13 Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it is  now my pleasure and privilcge, in my capacity as Chairperson of the Group of 77? to present to the plenary of  this historic General Conference, the Paris Declaration adopted by the Ministers and Heads of Delegation of  Group 77 in Paris. Last year, the Croup of 77 celcbrated its thirtieth anniversary. The Director-General as well  as all Member States of UNESCO joined us in celebrating this event. Comprising as it does 132 developing  countries. thc Group of 77 has been arliculatin, 0 over the three decades of its existence the concerns and  perceptions of the dcveloping countries and attempting co-ordinated action in several international forums. We  arc presenting the Paris Declaration to you on the tïftieth anniversary of the adoption of UNESCO’s  Constitution. As thc Organization renews its mandate, we earnestly hope that the Paris Declaration, which is  the fruit of the collective endeavour of 133 developing countries, Will help UNESCO formulate its goals and  programmes, not only in the years to corne, but right IIOW, next week: when we work in the Commissions of the  General Conference to adopt the Organization’s Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997 and its Draft  Medium-Tcrm Strategy until tbe year 2001. You Will find in the Paris Declaration vcry cogent points of  reference. We, thc members of the Group of 77, Will be working in the Commissions with those aims and  ob-jcctivcs in view that you Will find in the text that 1 am about to present. 1 wish to draw the attention of a11  Membcr States of UNESCO, as well as of the Director-General, to what is contained therein.  x.14 ‘Paris Declaration:  Ministerial Declaration by Member States of the Group of 77 and China, Paris, 31 October lYY5  We. the Ministers and Representatives of the Member States of the Group of 77 and China, comprising
133 developing countries, meeting in Paris on 31 October 1995, at the twenty-eighth session of the General  Confèrence of UNESCO in the fïftieth anniversary year of thc adoption of the Constitution of UNESCO, the  tïftieth anniversary of the United Nations and in the wake of the tbirtieth annivcrsary of the founding of the  Group of 77:  Rcaffirminq the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and its Specialized  Agencies. and recalling the ideals enshrincd in the Constitution of UNESCO.  Attachinn high urioritv to the revitalization and strengthening of the role of tbe United Nations and of  UhTESCO and other Specializcd Agcncies in promoting international co-operation for economic and  social development.  Bearinq in mind that UNESCO, as the intellectual lead agency of thc United Nations system. should  fulfïl its cthical mission,  ReconnizinK that the proliferation of themes in the agenda of the Organization tends to be detrimental  from thc point of view of consistency and effectiveness in the pursuit of UNESCO’s goals. cspecially in  the context of budgetary reality,  Affirminq that the accomplishment of UNESCO’s mission, as assigned in its Constitution, Will clearly  require an approach focused on the tore tasks of the Organization.
12  Bearing in mind that 1996 has been proclaimed as the International Year for Poverty Eradication,  Takinn careful cognizance of our countries’ important commitments at the World Summit on Social  Development in March 1995, for the eradication of poverty, the provision of full employment and the  achievement of social cohesion and taking note of the outcome of the International Conference on  Population and Development in Cairo in April 1994 and the Fourth World Conference on Women in  Beijing in September 1995,  Aftïrming tbat while socio-economic development is a national responsibility, this cari bc succcssfully  realized only through the shared commitment and efforts of the international community. ensuring a  favourable environment conducive to the development of developing countries,  Extending a warm welcome to a11 the new Member States of UNESCO, and in particular to the  Republic of South Africa and Bosnia and Herzegovina as the newest membcrs of thc Group of 77 in  UNESCO, as an important step towards universal membership of UNESCO,  Solemnly declare the following:
1. We attach the highest priority to UNESCO’s goals of devclopment and pcace to promotc an  action-oriented consensus for human resource development, to reduce existing disparities between  developed and developing countries and increase the tlow of developmcnt assistance to devcloping  countries in the fïelds of education, culture, science and technology, and information and  communication media:
2. We strongly believe that sustainable economic and social development, particularly of  developing counuies, constitutes one of the main objectives which must be pursued as a priority by the  international community, and that unilateral coercive measures which contradict and hinder the aims  and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and of UNESCO must not he applied;
3. We cal1 upon the Bretton Woods Institutions, as well as on developed countries, to rcduce the  intolerable debt burden of developing countries and its scrvicing and to substantially increase the tlow  of development assistance to them in the tïelds of UNESCO’s competence and to cstablish policics  aimed at finding practical solutions to urgent problems which hinder the integral and sustainable  development of developing countries, free of proposals for structural adjustments in these lïelds:
4. We reaffïrm our strong commitment to strengthen South-South co-operation as an integral  part of the strategy of the developing countries to achieve economic and social development;
5. We reaffïrm our commitment to promoting and attaining the goals of universal and equitablc  access to quality education and to complete literacy, making particular efforts to rectify incqualities  relating to social conditions without distinction as to race, national origin. gender, age or disability,  convinced that education is the basis of development, progress and peace;
6. We reaflïrm our commitment also to respecting and promoting our common and particular  cultures; and recognize the multi-dimensional and complex relationship hetween culture and  development;
7. We attach high priority to endogenous capacity-building; accordingly, we urge the necessity to  transfer technology and scientific know-how to developing countries; to enhance creativity and to  share knowledge, experience and expertise in a free and easily accessible flow betwecn developed and  developing countries; to facilitate an equitable access to information and communication media; to  make the free flow of information multi-directional;
8. Wc reaffirm our commitment to further empowering UNESCO in the pursuit of its ethical  mission, in advancing the objectives of international peace, thc common welfare of humankind and  sustained socio-economic development;
9. We emphasize tbat in this United Nations Ycar for Tolerance, 1995, and its follow-up.  UNESCO must work vigorously to foster international understanding by promoting intercultural  dialogue;
10. We attach high priority to promoting a culture of peace, which includes freedom from a11  forms of economic and social deprivation, poverty, social injustices, such as exclusion and  discrimination, and redresses flagrant asymmetries of wealth and opportunity, both within and  between countries;
11. We urgently cal1 upon UNESCO to use the opportunity of the commemoration of its fïftieth  anniversary as a time for stock-taking, reflection and objective programme evaluation;  complementarity not duplication should govern the interpretation of its rote, scope and mandate as a  Specialized Agency with the United Nations system;
12. We stress the need to re-examine the signifïcance of each aspect of UNESCO’s fïelds of  competence in a move towards greater programme concentration and the maximization of the use of  scarce human and fïnancial resources;
13. We also stress the need for establishment of a limited and clear number of priorities in  UNESCO’s agenda on the basis of the four major programmes of the Organization, as well as its  priority groups, which are its basic tasks, with a view to moving away from proliferation of projects  lacking interna1 coherence, as well as to adapting the planning to the present budgetary reabty;
14. We thus cal1 upon UNESCO to focus on its basic priorities in order to provide the  Organization with a proper degree of consistency and effectiveness in the accomplishment of its task  as assigned in its Constitution;
15. We emphasize that UNESCO shall, within the framework of the International Year for  Poverty Eradication, actively contribute to enhancing the world’s awareness of the pressing need to  combat the causes and effects of poverty;
16. We cal1 upon UNESCO to provide effective support to its programmes on co-operation  among developing countries, in particular the initiatives aimed at promoting education for all, such as,  inter nlirr, the EFA-9 initiative;
17. We also attach high priority to the full, regular and timely payment of dues to UNESCO by  a11 its Member States;
1X. We cal1 upon the Director-General of UNESCO to draw up a UNESCO Agenda for Human  Resource Development, with a clear substantive content and proposing specifïc action with well-  defïned goals to result in human resource development in developing countries, and to present it to the  twenty-ninth session of the General Conference;
19. We cal1 upon a11 Member States of UNESCO to accord the highest priority to the promotion  of thc sustainable growth and development of the developing countries, and to contribute actively  towards the best conditions for the futfilment of this Declaration.’
8.15 Thank you very much, Sir, for your attention.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. The next speaker is H.E. Mr Juozas Nekrosius, Minister of  Culture of Lithuania.
10.1 Mr NEKROSIUS (Lithuania):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen it  is a great honour for me, as a representative of a still very Young Member State, to address the General  Conference of UNESCO on the eve of the fïftieth anniversary of the Organization.
10.2 First of all, 1 would like to express our sincere gratitude to UNESCO for its continuous assistance and  support to our country which began even before Lithuania became a member of the Organization. lndeed, the  history of Lithuania’s relations with UNESCO did not start in October 1991, when our newly independent State  was officially admitted to the UNESCO family of nations. lt began 30 years ago, when the fïrst United Nations  and UNESCO documents were deposited in the library of the University of Vilnius. This is the only such  deposit in the Baltic States, and the oldest one in this part of Europe; it attracts many foreign experts and  scholars. Furthermore, Lithuanian scientists have contributed to the Man and the Biosphere programme since
1973, in particular as initiators and co-ordinators of the project on ‘Species and its productivity in the  distribution area’, involving 17 Eurasian countries and more than 1,500 specialists from 180 research centres.  These two examples show how important UNESCO was to our people even before Lithuania appeared on the  world map again as an independent State.
10.3 Participating for the fïrst time in the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference, we were proud  to be elected to the Intergovernmental Council for the General Information programme and to the Headquarters  Committee.
10.4 More good news reached us in December 1994, when the historic centre of the city of Vilnius was  included in the World Heritage List, allowing us to be associated even more closely with UNESCO.
10.5 For Lithuania, as for many other countries in transition to democracy, co-operation with UNESCO has  a very special meaning. After 50 years of isolation we cari bene& from international expertise, SO much needed  in our country, and at the same time participate fully in the world exchange of knowledge, sharing with other  nations our experience on the road to peace and democracy.
10.6 We are particularly thankful to UNESCO for the close attention it pays to the specific needs of Eastern  and Central European countries through the PROCEED programme.
10.7 Immediately after joining UNESCO, Lithuania established good working relations with the Regional  Office for Science and Technology for Europe (ROSIE). Lithuanian scientists are happy to be able, through  ROSIE, to participate in international research on coastal biocenosis, and on the management of the Baltic Sea  coastal zone. An international conference on this theme has just been held in Nida in Lithuania, and next year  we hope to set up with UNESCO’s help a ‘Baltic Network on Biodiversity and Productivity of Species in Coastal  Ecosystems’ involving a11 Baltic countries.
10.8 We also hope that Lithuanian scientifïc potential Will be better used in UNESCO projects, thus  enabling Lithuania to contribute to the development of other Member States, We are convinced that one of  UNESCO’s strongest points is commitment to the principle of the free flow of ideas, to freedom of expression  and to the independence and pluralism of the media. We also believe that those principles are closely linked to  the underlying idea of the culture of peace which, from 1996, Will be one of UNESCO’s special  interdisciplinary projects.
10.9 Last year, with UNESCO’s assistance, a UNESCO Chair in informatics for the humanities was  established in Lithuania. This Chair is an important research and development centre allowing us, in  particular, to use new information technologies to record on CD-ROM traditionally used patterns, songs and  linguistic material. Until recently, many of these technologies have been used only for military purposes; now  they serve culture and education.
10.10 Having touched on our involvement in UNESCO’s ongoing activities, 1 would like now to point out  some projects of particular interest to Lithuania in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997.  Considering the geographical position of our country, and the work already accomplished in co-operation with  ROSTE, we are very much interested in the Coastal Marine Project. Our capital would be happy to participate  in *he Project on Cities and in the MOST Programme dealing with the management of social transformations  which could test one of its components in Vilnius.
10.11 We hope that UNESCO Will associate itself with the celebration of the four hundred-and-tïftieth  anniversary of the fïrst Lithuanian book, which, by the way, is now available in electronic form thanks to the  above-mentioned UNESCO Chair. We also hope to participate actively in the transdisciplinary project ‘Towards  a culture of peace’.
10.12 The United Nations and UNESCO are 50 years old. This is a mature age, and we offer you our sincere  and hearty greetings. This year of our hftieth anniversary is also the Year for Tolerance. In two months, this  year Will corne to an end, but we must ensure that its ideas live on.
10.13 Litbuania, and Vilnius in particular, have been known since the fourteenth Century as important  centres of cultural exchanges and of tolerance towards the diverse cultures of a11 nations. Traditionally a  country of cultural pluralism, Lithuania is a natural and reliable partner in the Culture of Peace project and we  intend to continue playing the role of promoting tolerance and intercultural dialogue that is assigned to us by  destiny. Thank you for your attention.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. The next speaker is H.E. Mr Pave1 Tigrid, Minister for Culture of  the Czech Republic.
12.1 M. TIGRID (République tchèque) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur géneral, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, au nom de la  délégation de la République tchèque, de vous adresser toutes mes félicitations pour votre élection, qui, j’en suis  convaincu, garantit le bon déroulement de nos travaux.
12.2 La République tchèque a conscience de ce que l’UNESCO est la seule organisation  intergouvernementale au monde à avoir pour vocation prioritaire la coopération internationale dans les  domaines de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture.
12.3 Durant ses cinquante années d’existence, l’UNESCO a incontestablement enregistré une série de succès  extraordinaires dans son action en faveur du developpement de la coopération intellectuelle internationale.  D’excellents résultats ont été obtenus dans le domaine de la protection du patrimoine culturel et naturel  mondial. La tendance 5 la diminution du nombre d’analphabètes dans le monde est également à porter au crédit  dc l’UNESCO. Toute une série d’importants textes de droit international ont été adoptés sous son égide. Cela  t!tant, l’UNESCO, il est vrai, n’a pas réussi à éviter une certaine politisation de ses activités. Elle a toutefois  réalise depuis 1989 un certain nombre de réformes. La République tchèque, qui les approuve, souhaiterait  contribuer de façon active à leur approfondissement. C’est pour cette raison, entre autres, qu’elle présente sa  candidature au Conseil exécutif.
12.4 Nous apprécions hautement les efforts du Secrétariat et du Directeur général, des membres du Conseil  executif et de tous les Etats membres qui ont contribué à rédiger le Projet de stratégie à moyen terme et le Projet  de programme et dc budget de l’Organisation pour les deux années à venir.
12.5 La Stratégie à moyen terme conduit l’UNESCO dans un nouveau millénaire. Nous nous félicitons  notamment de la sobriété et de la lisibilite de ce document.
12.6 La République tchèque soutient le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1996-1997 ; certaines  suggestions seront néanmoins présentées par nos représentants au sein des différentes commissions.
12.7 Dans Ic domaine de l’éducation, la République tchèque accueille avec satisfaction et soutient les  activités de l’UNESCO visant en premier lieu à démocratiser l’éducation, à mettre en place des systèmes  Cducatifs fondés sur le concept d’éducation permanente, et recommande que l’on continue à s’attacher  systématiquement à préparer l’éducation de l’homme du XXIe siècle, sans négliger par ailleurs le contenu de  cette éducation ct la formation des pCda?oques. Elle approuve l’augmentation des crédits budgétaires destinés c c  au programme “L’éducation de base pour tous”, qu’elle considère comme une expression de la priorité de  l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’Éducation.
12.8 Dans le domaine de la culture, la République tchèque soutient notamment les programmes dont les  objectifs essentiels sont la protection du patrimoine culturel, le dkveloppement culturel et les échanges culturels  internationaux ainsi que le développement de la littérature.
12.9 Bien que le programme “Décennie du développement culturel” touche à sa fin, ou bien pour cette  raison justement. nous recommandons qu’une attention particulière soit accordée à des initiatives civiques dans  le domaine de la culture qui apparaissent de façon spontanée et contribuent à la démocratisation de la culture et  de l’ensemble de la société.
12.10 Dans le domaine de la science, la République tch+,que continuera à participer d’une manière active au  programme sur L’homme et la biosphère, tout en recommandant qu’en matière de recherche &ologique ~II  passe progressivement d’une perspective à court terme à une stratégie à long terme.
12.11 Nous nous fclicitons de cc que les sciences naturelles et sociales soient réunies dans un programme  commun et nous escomptons que cette initiative se traduira aussi par une meilleure coordination des activites de  l’UNESCO dans ces domaines, ainsi que par une plus grande souplesse dans la realisation des programmes  interdisciplinaires. Il est cependant indispensable d’assurer le maintien de l’identité et de l’autonomie des  programmes dans le domaine des sciences sociales. Nous ne voulons pas que la réunion de ces deux domaines  entraîne la réduction des rcssourccs financières destinées aux sciences sociales. Celles-ci ont considérablement
12  pâti de la confrontation idéologique ; la nouvelle situation politique leur ouvre des possibilités tout à fait  nouvelles, et il faut profiter de cette chance historique.
12.12 Pour toutes ces raisons, nous soutenons pleinement le Programme intergouvernemental sur la gestion  des transformations sociales (MOST), mis en place il y a deux ans, et recommandons que dans le cadre de ce  programme soit aussi étudié le problème des migrations sociales.
12.13 Nous avons pleinement conscience de ce que sans le développement des technologies de la  communication et de l’information, et des services d’information, il serait fort difficile d’atteindre les objectifs  stipulés dans le programme de l’UNESCO. C’est pourquoi nous soutenons les activités dans le cadre du  Programme général d’information, en particulier le programme “Mémoire du monde” et tous les prqjets qui  réagissent à la mise en place rapide et au développement des “autoroutes de l’information”.
12.14 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a en charge des domaines qui ont une  importance cruciale pour le développement de la communauté mondiale. Je lui souhaite le plus grand succès  dans l’accomplissement de sa mission et l’exécution du programme proposé. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister, also for keeping your address well within the time-limit. The next  speaker is H.E. Mr Liboire Ngendahayo, Minister for Secondary and Higher Education, and Scientific Research  of Burundi.
14.1 M. LIBOIRE NGENDAHAYO (Burundi) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames, Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués,  permettez-moi de m’acquitter, Monsieur le Président, de l’agréable devoir de vous féliciter de votre élection à la  présidence de la vingt-huitième session de la Conférence générale. 11 est de notoriété publique, Madame la  Présidente, que votre compétence à la tête du Conseil exécutif a fait avancer de façon positive les travaux de  l’Organisation. Je souhaite aussi aux nouveaux Etats membres la bienvenue à l’UNESCO et je me félicite du  retour de l’Afrique du Sud. Vous savez, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO que, comme l’a rappelé  mardi dernier, du haut de cette tribune, S. Ext. le Président de la République du Burundi, notre pays traverse  une crise sociopolitique grave depuis deux ans. Nous vous remercions infiniment de la sollicitude dont vous  faites preuve à l’égard de notre pays et notre peuple et de tout ce que vous accomplissez pour assurer le succès  de la mission de l’Organisation.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, cette crise n’a pas épargné notre système éducatif, scientifique, culturel et notre  système de communication. Dans l’enseignement primaire, beaucoup d’enseignants ont perdu la vie ou ont  déserté. Certains parents ont renoncé à faire inscrire leurs enfants à l’école. Nombre d’instituteurs ont refusé de  se rendre dans des régions troublées et, de ce fait, le taux de scolarisation a baissé. Il n’en va pas autrement  dans l’enseignement secondaire où des tendances à l’exclusion et à la violence ont marqué les deux années  scolaires écoulées. Même 1’Universite du Burundi, après avoir longuement résisté, a fini par succomber et a été  le cadre d’actes de violence de caractère ethnique qui ont fait des morts et des blessés et ont entraîné l’abandon  des campus par une partie des étudiants. Je vous épargne le détail des destructions physiques et morales subies  par les autres secteurs de la vie nationale relevant des domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO.
14.3 Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, malgré l’ampleur de la  crise, le gouvernement burundais n’est pas resté inactif; au contraire, il a déployé, avec ses partenaires  extérieurs, tous les efforts possibles pour maîtriser la situation et maintenir une sécurité minimale en matière  d’éducation. Ces efforts ont consisté à favoriser le dialogue entre tous les partenaires du système éducatif afin  d’amener chacun à assumer ses responsabilités dans le processus qui doit rétablir la confiance et la paix. NOUS  sommes parvenus à éviter tout hiatus aux différents niveaux de l’enseignement malgré la gravité de la crise.  Au-delà des activités purement scolaires, nous avons pu aider tous les enfants orphelins ou sinistrés en leur  fournissant du matériel scolaire de base. A ce stade, nous rendons un vibrant hommage à M. Federico Mayor,  directeur général de l’UNESCO, qui a bien voulu nous accorder un appui financier appréciable pour la  fourniture de matériel scolaire destiné à 10.000 élèves sinistrés. Nous sollicitons une aide égale pour l’exercice  biennal 1996-1997.
14.4 S’agissant de la culture nationale et de la culture de la paix, le gouvernement a puisé dans la culture  nationale les énergies nécessaires pour ressouder le tissu social déchiré. C’est dans ce cadre que nous avons  organisé des campagnes de solidarité où des familles et associations ont décidé d’aider les déplacés, les
393    dispeisés et les rapatriés. La naissance de plus d’une centaine d’associations, regroupant spécialement les jeunes  et tous ceux qui s’opposent à la violence, trouve son explication dans cette aspiration à une culture de tolerance  et de cohabitation pacifique qui a jadis honoré nos ancêtres. C’est également dans ce cadre et grâce à l’appui de  certaines ONG que les jeunes ont multiplié les rencontres culturelles et sportives pour rapprocher leurs idées et  leurs visions sur les problèmes burundais. Nos athlètes ont ainsi montré ce dont ils étaient capables dans  beaucoup de compétitions internationales, suscitant la fierté de notre jeunesse qui estime aujourd’hui qu’on peut  exceller dans des domaines constructifs plutôt que dans celui de la violence. Notre langue nationale, le kirundi,  constitue un instrument appréciable et sans égal pour la diffusion de nos messages de paix, qui sont reçus par  l’ensemble de la population.
14.5 Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, de tels efforts ne  suffisent pas. Ils constituent les premiers pas d’un nouveau-né. Nos priorités et préoccupations urgentes  subsistent. Je les énumérerai, sans préjuger des projets concrets que nous présenterons dans le cadre du  Programme et du budget 1996-1997. Il y a notamment : l’éducation permanente pour tous et la  professionnalisation de l’enseignement ; la formation des formateurs à tous les niveaux ; les femmes et la  consolidation de la paix ; la formation d’ingénieurs et les biotechnologies ; la dimension culturelle dans  l’encadrement de la jeunesse ; le partenariat université-industrie-artisanat ; les énergies renouvelables.
14.6 Monsieur le Président, s’agissant des documents 28 C/4 et 28 C/5 soumis à notre analyse, la délégation  du Burundi tient à affirmer son attachement à la mission éthique et intellectuelle de l’UNESCO. Elle se félicite  de la clarté des mandats, des priorités et des stratégies que le document relatif à la Stratégie à moyen terme  contient. Elle estime néanmoins que le mode d’évaluation de cette stratégie, notamment l’évaluation des  programmes biennaux, devrait être précise afin que nous puissions nous rapprocher le plus possible des  objectifs de la Stratégie.
14.7 L’idée d’actualiser l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO nous a également séduits : certes, la guerre froide  entre l’Ouest et l’Est n’existe plus mais, à la place, d’autres guerres froides sont apparues, plus nombreuses et  peut-être plus destructrices : les guerres nationalistes, régionalistes, tribales, ethniques, linguistiques,  religieuses et j’en passe. Les missions de l’UNESCO, les stratégies, les partenariats, les principes d’action  devraient donc être repensés compte tenu des nouveaux enjeux. Plutôt que d’encourager une éducation pour la  paix, les droits de l’homme, la démocratie, la tolérance et la compréhension internationale, il vaudrait mieux  créer un contexte de paix et un environnement démocratique par la réduction des innombrables inégalités. Nous  estimons que la solidarité, le partage et l’équité n’ont pas eu suffisamment d’écho dans les rapports entre le  Nord et le Sud et dans les relations internationales. LVNESCO est donc appelée, au.jourd’hui plus qu’il y a  cinquante ans, à contribuer à la paix, grâce au développement de toute la communauté internationale.
14.8 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les ministres, le  développement ne se fera que par l’éducation, la science et la culture. A ce propos, il est fort dommage que les  rapports des Commissions Delors et Pérez de Cuéllar n’aient pas été disponibles pour enrichir la Stratégie à  moyen terme de l’UNESCO. En ce qui nous concerne, l’éducation permanente pour tous, telle qu’elle est définie  dans la Déclaration de Jomtien, doit rester la priorité des priorités, tout en étant reliée aux autres secteurs, car il  ne saurait y avoir d’arbre sans tronc.
14.9 En matière de sciences, il va sans dire que les énergies renouvelables et la formation d’ingénieurs à  tous les niveaux doivent être renforcées. Le programme MOST (Gestion des transformations sociales) est plus  que d’actualité dans des pays comme les nôtres où des transformations sociales non maîtrisées risquent  d’aggraver les problèmes ethniques, l’exclusion et la violence. La valorisation du patrimoine et l’encouragement  de la créativité nous tiennent aussi à coeur car un peuple sans âme est voué à la disparition et la culture est le  ciment de l’unité. A ce propos, il nous semble important que lajeunesse puisse assimiler la dimension culturelle  de la paix et du développement.
14.10 Monsieur le Directeur général, conscient de l’importance des défis que l’Afrique doit relever, vous avez  organisé au mois de février de cette année dans cette maison de la culture les Assises de l’Afrique à l’occasion  desquelles, sous votre houlette, des personnalités africaines ont redéfini les domaines véritablement prioritaires  de l’UNESCO, notamment l’Afrique, les femmes, les pays les moins avancés et les jeunes. Cette initiative a  constitué une preuve de solidarité supplémentaire. A ce stade, nous voudrions lancer un appel solennel pour que  ces priorités soient réellement prises en compte dans la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie et des programmes  biennaux de l’UNESCO dans l’intérêt des bénéficiaires et de l’ensemble de la communauté internationale. En  conclusion, j’aurai le plaisir de remercier l’Organisation, en la personne de M. Federico Mayor, son directeur  général, pour les nombreuses marques d’attention qu’elle manifeste à mon pays et à mon peuple en vue
12  d’instaurer la confiance et la paix entre les diverses composantes de la société burundaise. La maison de  l’UNESCO pour la culture de la paix au Burundi, inaugurée en décembre 1994, est la matérialisation de cette  solidarité internationale que nous appelons de tous nos voeux. Je vous remercie.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. The next speaker is H.E. Professor Sekimonyo Wa Magango,  Minister for Primary, Secondary and Professional Education of Zaire
16.1 M. Sekimonyo WA MAGANGO (Zaïre) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, malgré la limitation du temps de parole, je ne saurais  aborder le fond de mon propos sans vous adresser mes sincères félicitations à l’occasion de votre brillante  élection à la présidence de la présente session de la Conférence générale.
16.2 Je m’en voudrais aussi de ne pas dire un mot à l’adresse de M. Ahmed Sayyad, président sortant, pour  l’excellent travail qu’il a accompli au cours de son mandat.
16.3 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences et distingués chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, il n’est pas vain de  rappeler une fois encore l’importance de la présente session de la Conférence générale. C’est en effet au cours  de cette session tenue au moment où nous célébrons le cinquantième anniversaire de notre Organisation et celui  de l’Organisation des Nations Unies que nous allons adopter une stratégie à moyen terme qui nous conduira au  XXIe siècle, ce siècle qui s’annonce comme étant celui de tous les enjeux compte tenu des problèmes avec  lesquels l’humanité est aux prises en ce moment.
16.4 Si nous jetons un regard sur le passé de notre Organisation, nous constatons avec satisfaction dc  nombreuses réalisations positives. Il reste néanmoins encore beaucoup à faire à en juger par l’exaspération  actuelle des tensions à l’intérieur des Etats et des communautés, l’élargissement croissant du fossé qui sépare les  riches et les pauvres en raison de relations économiques in.justes et inéquitables souvent expliquées, à tort ou à  raison, par l’incapacité gestionnaire des partenaires. Dans certains pays, la dégradation des conditions de vie  des populations a dépassé le seuil du tolérable.
16.5 C’est dans un tel contexte qu’il convient d’envisager l’avenir de l’UNESCO, dont la mission est de  construire la paix grâce à la promotion de la solidarité internationale et à une prospérité adéquatement partagée  de toute l’humanité.
16.6 Je saisis cette occasion pour rappeler que le Zaïre héberge actuellement des millions de personnes qui  ont fui leur patrie. Leur nombre et l’importance du débit migratoire qui a parfois atteint des dizaines de milliers  de réfugiés par heure n’ont pas permis de mettre des infrastructures scolaires suffisantes à la disposition des  immigrants en âge d’être scolarisés.
16.7 Ce phénomène, dont d’autres aspects ont été clairement stigmatisés par le président de la République,  le maréchal Mobutu, au Sommet des chefs d’Etat de Copenhague et tout récemment au Sommet de New York,  intéresse au plus haut point l’UNESCO. Cela nous incite à demander à notre Organisation de s’engager  davantage dans le processus de recherche des conditions de la paix en Afrique centrale, processus dont mon  pays est et demeure l’un des principaux animateurs.
16.8 Monsieur le Président, le Zaïre, qui a bénéficié du concours de l’UNESCO dès les premiers moments  de son indépendance, voudrait réaffirmer ici sa foi en elle. C’est pourquoi nous pensons qu’il faut non  seulement “relire l’Acte constitutif’ mais le confirmer en le renforçant afin que l’UNESCO soit de plus en plus  présente sur le terrain avec des réalisations concrètes.
16.9 La campagne d’information que la Commission nationale a entamée dans mon pays sur les actions de  l’UNESCO nous a permis de savoir ce que nos populations attendent d’elle. Il faut en tout cas réfléchir une fois  de plus sur les modalités d’intervention requises pour satisfaire ces attentes.
16.10 Permettez-moi de souligner avec une réelle satisfaction l’attention particulière que le Directeur général,  M. Federico Mayor, a accordée à mon pays au moment où les autres partenaires hésitaient encore. C’est là  l’exemple d’une solidarité véritable et sincère, car on ne peut se déclarer solidaire avec un ami, un frère ou un  partenaire et le fuir au moment où sa maison brûle.
16.11 Grâce à cette attention, le Zaïre entreprend aujourd’hui avec l’UNESCO deux importantes activités  dans un domaine que les pères fondateurs de notre Organisation ont considéré comme le pilier principal de son  action, c’est-à-dire l’éducation.
16.12 En effet, avec le concours technique et financier de l’UNESCO, le Zaïre est en train de préparer ses  Etats généraux de l’éducation. Ces Assises, décidées par la Conférence nationale souveraine (en son acte cinq),  devront doter notre pays d’un nouveau système éducatif, ou tout au moins d’un système profondément réformé  tourné vers le progrès et l’idéal démocratique. Déjà la préparation des Etats généraux se fait dans une ambiance  de démocratie où l’on s’assure de l’adhésion de toutes les institutions et de toutes les forces vives de la nation au  moyen de consultations organisées dans toutes les régions et dans tous les secteurs vitaux. Nous apprécions à  cet égard les observations pertinentes faites par les experts de l’UNESCO sur nos documents de travail.
16.13 Par ailleurs, en application de la résolution du Séminaire international de la N’sele sur la forêt  tropicale, le Zaïre, avec le concours de l’UNESCO, travaille à la mise en route de 1’Ecole supérieure régionale  de foresterie et de gestion des ressources naturelles.
16.14 Nous profitons de cette occasion pour lancer un appel à tous les autres partenaires pour qu’ils se  joignent à l’UNESCO comme l’a fait le PNUD.
16.15 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Zaïre prépare actuellement un autre tournant de son  histoire. Nous pouvons constater que, malgré quelques dérapages, nous avons su éviter les situations les plus  graves. Certes l’évolution a été lente mais en tout cas pragmatique et réaliste, car, il faut le rappeler, la  démocratie, c’est toute une culture, c’est-à-dire l’expression de ce qu’est l’homme dans son contexte historique et  sociologique.
16.16 Au.jourd’hui tous nos efforts sont tournés vers la préparation des élections que nous voulons libres?  transparentes et démocratiques. Nous comptons pour cela sur l’appui de tous les hommes de bonne volonté.  C’est là le sens de la politique d’ouverture menée par le gouvernement actuel dirigé par S. Ext. M. Kengo Wa  Dondo.
16.17 Pour terminer, je voudrais féliciter le Directeur génbal pour la qualité des documents soumis à notre  examen et l’encourager dans son action afin que l’UNESCO soit une véritable Organisation des peuples car  nous apprécions sa volonté de veiller à ce que “la politique de décentralisation soit bien comprise et  correctement appliquée par le Siège comme par les bureaux hors Siège...“.
16.18 Nous apprécions également la démarche qui nous est proposée dans le Projet de stratégie à moyen  terme et le P@et de programme et de budget, ainsi que nous l’avons indiqué dans les deux documents intitulks  “Position du Zaïre”, démarche qui lie la consolidation de la paix au développement humain dans une approche  où s’intègrent les savoirs et les valeurs dans le contexte du pluralisme culturel. Je vous remercie.  (Mr Bazany, Slovakia, takes the Chair)
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your contribution. The next speaker is H.E. Mr Antonio Luis Cjrdenas, Minister for  Education of Venezuela.
(18.1) M. CARDENAS (Venezuela) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, lors de la Conférence internationale  de l’éducation qui s’est tenue à Genève en octobre 1994, nous avons évoqué l’éducation et la paix et nous avons  souligné qu’il ne peut y avoir de paix s’il n’y a pas de justice.
(18.2) La Stratégie à moyen terme de l’UNESCO a pour base les deux objectifs communs à l’ensemble du  système des Nations Unies, à savoir le développement et la paix. Cela signifie que le développement recherché  est fondé sur la justice, l’équité et la solidarité en tant que fondements de la paix. Aussi la lutte contre la pauvreté  devient-elle l’un des objectifs essentiels pour “freiner l’aggravation des disparités, qui vont croissant, entre les  pays comme au sein des nations”. La culture de la paix, comme l’affirme le document “Stratégie à moyen terme”,  suppose l’élimination de la pauvreté.
(18.3) Face à ces nobles desseins surgissent des questions qui ont déjà trouvé une réponse grâce à l’expérience  de nombreux pays. Comment assurer ce développement fondé sur l’éthique ? Comment supprimer la pauvreté  avec tous les bienfaits que cela implique ?
(18.4) Il existe de nombreux facteurs qui contribuent à la réalisation de ces objectifs, mais, parmi eux, il en est  un qui est présent dans tous les cas de réussite et sans lequel il n’y a pas de développement possible, ni de moyen  d’éliminer la pauvreté ou d’assurer la stabilité, la justice sociale et la paix. Ce facteur, c’est l’éducation. Une  éducation de qualité pour tous, conçue à partir d’un point de vue éthique, où l’Etat privilégie ceux qui en ont le  plus besoin en raison de leur pauvreté. Il s’agit d’en finir avec cette honte que représente l’existence dans les  systkmes éducatifs de “circuits d’accumulation des carences” au détriment des pauvres et de “circuits  d’accumulation des excellences” au bénéfice des riches. Cette situation d’injustice est très nette dans les pays dits  du tiers monde, qui trouvent là précisément la cause essentielle de leur pauvreté et de leur sous-développement.
(185) Pour en finir avec cette dangereuse injustice qui freine tout progrès, il faut développer des systèmes  d’éducation de qualité, particulièrement aux niveaux préscolaire et de l’éducation de base, qui doivent englober  toute la populationjusqu’à la fin de ces études.
(18.6) Il faut privilégier l’éducation de base de qualité pour tous, mais cela ne signifie pas qu’il faille se  désintéresser des autres niveaux du système éducatif. Je veux seulement dire par là que l’éducation de hase, qui  dans de nombreux pays a été la plus négligée, constitue le fondement de tout l’édifice éducatif. Cette éducation de  hase doit avoir pour objectifs fondamentaux d’apprendre à penser, apprendre à apprendre, apprendre à faire,  apprendre à se poser et à résoudre les problèmes, ainsi qu’acquérir des valeurs, bref, former des citoyens  conscients et capables d’atteindre le bien-être pour eux-mêmes et de contribuer au bien-être des autres et au  développement de leur pays. Il ne s’agit pas d’instruction ou de formation, il s’agit d’éducation intégrale. Pour cela,  nous ne devons pas nous limiter à l’ordinaire des programmes scolaires ; des programmes qui ont vu le jour au  Venezuela, tels que le développement de l’intelligence ou la mise en place d’orchestres symphoniques de jeunes,  sont essentiels pour atteindre ces ob.jectifs. Les orchestres symphoniques de jeunes se sont développés avec un  grand succès dans notre pays et ont commencé à s’étendre à travers tout le continent.
(18.7) Le peu d’attention porté aux systèmes éducatifs dans notnbre de pays, avec toutes ses conséquences  néfastes, est dû au fait que, comme il est dit dans le document de l’UNESCO, “on a donné la priorité à l’urgence  plus qu’à la durée”. Si nous voulons en finir avec les “urgences”, comme le dit l’UNESCO, il nous faut nous  attaquer sans délai aux problèmes de fond qui sont la cause de ces “urgences”. Parmi ces problèmes de fond  figure l’inexistence d’une éducation de qualité pour tous.
(1X.8) En totale conformité avec les objectifs de l’UNESCO, le Plan d’action du Ministère de l’éducation du  Venezuela est axé sur trois objectifs : élever la qualité de l’éducation, améliorer l’efficacité de sa gestion et  instaurer l’équité dans le système éducatif.
(18.9) Pour élever la qualité de l’éducation, il nous faut transformer les pratiques pédagogiques  traditionnellement employées dans la salle de classe. Il nous faut passer de la mémorisation, de la copie et de la  répétition d’innombrables contenus dispersés et rarement compris à une éducation active, participative, où l’on  apprenne a apprendre, à penser et à faire. A cet effet, nous améliorons actuellement la formation des maîtres et  nous leur offrons de meilleures conditions de vie et de travail. Nous rénovons et fournissons des bibliothèques  scolaires et du matériel didactique aux écoles et nous favorisons les projets pédagogiques d’établissement pour  que chaque école réponde mieux à ses besoins et tire un meilleur parti de ses ressources. La qualité de l’éducation  dépend essentiellement de la qualité des maîtres ; c’est pourquoi nous devons mettre à la disposition de ceux-ci  tous les moyens possibles pour qu’ils puissent bien accomplir leur tâche.
(18.10) Pour améliorer la gestion de l’éducation, nous décentralisons tous les processus administratifs. Nous  transférons des compétences aux autorités régionales et locales et surtout aux établissements eux-mêmes, à  travers leurs projets pédagogiques. Nous nous apprêtons également à restructurer le Ministère qui est  surdimensionné et surchargé de fonctions administratives qui ne sont pas de son ressort, ce qui le rend lourd et  inefficace. Le Ministère, en tant qu’organisme central, se consacrera désormais à la recherche, à la définition des  politiques éducatives nationales et à son rôle consistant à superviser, à évaluer, à contrôler et à éviter les  déséquilibres régionaux préjudiciables à la qualité et à l’équité.
(18.11) Pour assurer l’équité, nous soutenons prioritairement les écoles qui s’occupent des populations les plus  pauvres, tant du point de vue économique que culturel. Pour les enfants de ces groupes de population, qui sont  largement majoritaires, nous lançons actuellement un programme d’alimentation à l’école, ainsi qu’un programme  de fourniture d’un matériel suffisant pour que les enfants puissent bénéficier d’une éducation de qualité, conforme  aux caractéristiques d’un monde dominé par le savoir et l’utilisation opportune et intelligente de l’information. 11  s’agit de rompre le circuit d’accumulation des carences qui fait obstacle à l’équité et au développement.
(18.12) Les programmes et les actions destinés à atteindre les objectifs que nous nous sommes fixés constituent  un ensemble très vaste, et nous nous félicitons de ce que les politiques aussi bien que les objectifs spécifiques  soient parfaitement conformes aux objectifs que s’est assignés l’UNESCO, parmi lesquels figure également  l’éducation permanente, indispensable dans un monde où les changements sont rapides et profonds. Nous autres,  Vénézuéliens, nous nous réjouissons avec vous du cinquantième anniversaire de cette institution consacrée à  l’éducation, à la science et à la culture, et nous espérons qu’elle contribuera de plus en plus à l’élimination du  sous-développement, de la pauvreté et de l’injustice qui prévalent dans la plupart des pays. Monsieur le Président,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, merci beaucoup.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now give the floor to H.E. Mr Martial De Paul Ikounga, Minister for  National Education, Scientific and Technology Research of Congo.
20.1 M. IKOUNGA (Congo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais avant tout, au nom du gouvernement de  la République du Congo que j’ai l’honneur de représenter, au nom de la délégation qui m’accompagne et en mon  nom propre, joindre ma voix à celles de nombreux orateurs qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune pour présenter à  M. Torben Krogh mes vives félicitations pour sa brillante élection à la présidence des travaux de cette vingt-  huitième session.
20.2 Il me plaît d’adresser également les félicitations de ma délégation au Directeur géneral et à l’équipe du  Secrétariat qu’il anime, pour la somme de travail accompli, grâce auquel nous disposons de documents  préparatoires dune qualité remarquable ; je pense notamment au C/4 et au C/5, dont la lecture est devenue plus  facile et dont les contenus sont plus concis et plus clairs.
20.3 Je voudrais aussi saisir l’occasion qui m’est offerte d’adresser mes salutations les plus fraternelles aux  délégués venus des quatre coins du monde et de saluer le retour de l’Afrique du Sud, de même que l’arrivée de  nouveaux Etats membres. Je souhaite également le retour de ceux qui ont quitté notre Organisation depuis un  certain temps.
20.4 Notre présence ici, Monsieur le Président, témoigne de la ferme volonté de notre pays et de son  Président, M. Pascal Lissouba, de contribuer, à travers l’activité de l’UNESCO, à la construction d’un monde de  paix et de progrès. Mon pays aspire et croit à la paix, sans laquelle tout progrès est impossible.
20.5 Voilà pourquoi le Congo n’a pas hésité à faire appel à l’UNESCO, organisation créée pour garantir la  paix par l’éducation, la science, la communication et la culture, pour l’aider à instaurer une véritable culture de  la paix en organisant en décembre 1994, un forum sur la culture de la paix centré sur le dialogue
399  _ . . T    intercommunautaire pour la paix, la démocratie et le développement durable. Pour les résultats de ce forum et  l’heureuse perspective d’un programme national de la culture de paix actuellement à l’étude, je voudrais  remercier de tout coeur le Directeur général et l’Organisation qu’il dirige. Le programme pour la culture de la  paix est vivement apprécié et soutenu par le Congo, qui souhaite qu’un financement accru soit alloué à cette  importante activité, qui touche à l’une des taches les plus importantes confiées à l’UNESCO, car c’est dans  “l’esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix”.
20.6 Monsieur le Président, la dette, faut-il le rappeler, a conduit certains pays à une complète asphyxie  économique. C’est pourquoi le Congo encourage l’UNESCO dans son projet de reconversion de la dette en  financement de projets éducatifs et se ré.jouit de recevoir les premières équipes chargées de la mise en oeuvre  concrète de ce projet essentiel.
20.7 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais aussi féliciter M. Federico Mayor pour l’attention particulière qu’il  ne cesse d’accorder à l’Afrique et dont la plus grande preuve a été la tenue en février 1995, sous les auspices de  l’UNESCO, des “Assises de l’Afrique”. Par ailleurs, dans le Projet de programme et de budget 1996-1997
(28 C/5) qui nous est proposé, l’Afrique constitue l’un des groupes cibles prioritaires de l’UNESCO. L’Afrique  mérite bien ce soutien, tant est important le retard de ce continent en matière de développement par rapport aux  autres.
20.8 Le Congo approuve le Projet de stratégie à moyen terme et plus particulièrement, les stratégies pour  contribuer à la consolidation de la paix ; pour lui, le concept de “maison de la culture de la paix” est synonyme  de palais des cultures, c’est-à-dire de maison à triple vocation : morale, juridique et scientifique. Le Congo est  fort désireux d’en abriter une, dans le cadre de son programme national de la culture de paix.
20.9 Monsieur le Président, s’agissant du document 28 C/5, le grand programme 1 revêt pour le Congo une  importance primordiale, tant les solutions préconisées par l’UNESCO nous semblent salutaires. L’éducation  Ctant la condition du développement, les pays dont la population est encore majoritairement plongée dans  l’analphabétisme doivent soutenir le sous-programme “Elargissement de l’accès à l’éducation de base” et faire  cn sorte qu’en bénéficient toutes les couches de la société. Le sous-programme “Amélioration de la qualité et de  la pertinence de l’éducation de base” correspond à une préoccupation essentielle du gouvernement congolais.  Une étude et un séminaire destinés à répondre à cette préoccupation ont été organisés sous le contrôle technique  de la Division des politiques et de l’analyse sectorielle du Secrétariat. Il ressort de leurs conclusions que le  redressement du système éducatif congolais passe nécessairement par sa refonte. Nous entendons engager, au  cours de cette année, une campagne en vue d’instaurer une pédagogie de la réforme mobilisant les parents  d’élèves, car les premières réformes n’ont pas atteint les résultats attendus, faute de l’adhésion des principaux  intéressés.
20.10 Le programme UNlTWINkhaires UNESCO bénéficie de l’appui du Congot qui souhaite accueillir des  chaires en sciences de l’éducation et pour la culture de la paix.
20.11 Le Congo note avec satisfaction l’orientation générale du grand programme II ainsi que sa structure et  le contenu de ses sous-programmes. Mon pays se félicite de l’accent mis sur la complémentarité entre les  sciences exactes et naturelles et les sciences sociales ainsi que sur la nécessité croissante de renforcer la  contribution des sciences à la prise de décisions et de promouvoir le transfert et le partage des connaissances. Il  insiste sur l’importance de la contribution des sciences sociales et soutient les activités de ce programme qui  privilégient le développement des ressources humaines et la diffusion de l’information scientifique.
20.12 Le Congo s’intéresse aux initiatives visant à inciter les communautés rurales à l’utilisation des  écotechnologies à faible coût et à amener un nombre croissant de femmes à utiliser ces écotechnologies en vue  de satisfaire les besoins domestiques.
20.13 Nous souhaitons participer à l’élaboration des méthodes d’aménagement et de gestion intégrée des  régions côtières et des petites îles. De manière plus spécifique, nous sollicitons le soutien de l’Organisation aux  activités de recherche biomédicale de la Cité Pasteur de Brazzaville, pour l’organisation du troisième Colloque  interafricain de philosophie sur le thème “Philosophie et enseignement” dont l’organisation a été confiée au  Congo par le Conseil interafricain de philosophie, ainsi qu’à la Faculté des sciences de l’Université du Congo  pour la reconstitution de son fonds documentaire.
20.14 Le Congo accueille favorablement les propositions relatives au grand programme III. Toutes les  activités préconisées figurent parmi les priorités de notre gouvernement. Notre pays souhaite participer aux  Carrefours musicaux en Afrique dont la tenue est prévue dans trois pays d’Afrique australe, et ce d’autant plus  que l’OUA lui a confié l’organisation, en 1996, du premier Festival panafricain de musique (FESPAM).  importante manifestation qu’il invite à soutenir. Il souhaite également participer au projet de formation de  spécialistes dans les domaines de la conservation du patrimoine qui l’intéresse vivement.
20.15 Le Congo, qui s’est engagé dans un programme de renforcement et de modernisation de son système de  communication et d’information par l’accès aux nouvelles technologies, souhaiterait tirer profit des activités  prévues dans le grand programme IV, notamment de celles en faveur de la libre circulation de l’information.
20.16 S’agissant des projets et activités transdisciplinaires, le Congo note avec satisfaction l’intérêt porté aux  femmes et aux jeunes. Par ailleurs, les antagonismes ethniques et politiques se multiplient, entraînant avec eux  la violence, la misère et l’insécurité. C’est pourquoi nous réitérons notre soutien au projet transdisciplinaire  pour une culture de la paix en général et à ses quatre composantes en particulier, car elles visent la  transformation de la culture mondiale d’une culture de guerre en une culture de la paix.
20.17 Monsieur le Président, notre voeu le plus cher reste celui de voir, malgré les difficultés de parcours, la  culture de la paix triompher de la logique de la guerre, la justice triompher de l’in.justice, et la recherche du  bien-être de toutes les communautés devenir la seule arme de la raison. Je vous remercie.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 now give the floor to H.E. MS Genet Zewide, Minister of Education of  Ethiopia.
22.1 MS ZEWIDE (Ethiopia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished  representatives of Member States, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Federal Democratic Republic of  Ethiopia and on my own behalf, 1 feel very much honoured and pleased to congratulate UNESCO and a11 its  Member States on the Golden Jubilee which a11 of us are ready to commemorate with special zeal and joy.  Allow me also to congratulate the President, whose election reflects the high regard and confidence we bestow  on him to guide us fruitfully through this important Conference. 1 warmly welcome the new Member States:  and 1 would like to applaud, in particular, the return of the new democratic and multiracial South Africa. 1 wish  to commend Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General for his clear presentation of the working documents of  tbe Conference and for the remarkable leadership he has displayed over the last eight years.
22.2 Ethiopia has, ever since its admission, enjoyed its membership. As a Member State, it has done its  best, unsparingly to support, promote and foster UNESCO’s mission, purpose, policies and programmes in a11  its fields of competence. We attach a great deal of value and importance to UNESCO’s intellectual role within  the United Nations system, as it promotes the ideals of education as a human right, science as a common  property, the promotion of monuments and sites as the heritage of humankind, and the promotion of  communication as essential for progress and development. Since we have shared in the promotion of  UNESCO’s ideals, we have also derived benefït in the areas of educational innovation and development,  infrastructure and capacity-building. We look forward with hope to a revitalized Organization whose true  purpose Will remain the promotion of international co-operation.
22.3 Allow me at this early stage to point out some of the achievements of my government during thc last  four years of transition. Thanks to the struggle waged by the people, the Transitional Government of Ethiopia  which was in power prior to the newly established Federal Democratic Republic, concentrated its attention on  the restoration of peace and stability, the democratization of the political process and the liberalization of the  country’s economy. The new Ethiopia, after 17 painful years of military dictatorship, is reshaping itself in a11  spheres of life.
22.4 The main objective of the transitional charter bringing peace and democracy to the Ethiopian peoples  lias been achieved during the past four years of the transition period. The other main achievements recorded by  the Transitional Government in the period include the recognition of the rights of nations and nationalities  neglected by the previous regimes and reversing the declining trend of the country’s economy, which was totally  paralysed by civil war. The new Constitution of Ethiopia, the country’s supreme law, practically ensures the  equality of a11 nations and nationalities. The Constitution, one of the greatest achievements of the peoples of  Ethiopia, paved the way for democratic elections with fair representation of nations and nationalities.
401    Furthermore, for the first time in the history of the country, the three authoritative bodies - the legislative, the  executive and thejudiciary - were established as separate entities. Thus, the Federal Democratic Government of  Ethiopia has set out upon a path of strong and lasting democratic order based on the Will and aspirations of its  peoples. Of course, the newly established Federal Democratic Republic is the product of the long struggle of the  nations and nationalities of the country, which chose to live in unity based on equality.
22.5 During the last four years of transition, a tremendous and ground-breaking political culture has taken  root, with the majority of the people attaining the freedom to discuss issues determining their fate. The new  Constitution, which evolved from extensive public debate, was one of the greatest achievements of the people  enshrining power to the people and recognizing the rights of nations and nationalities to self-administration.  Thanks to the relentless efforts of the peoples and the Transitional Government, transfer of power to popularly  elected government has now been witnessed. This peaceful transfer was the highest achievement in the history  of the country.
22.6 The purpose of UNESCO, we understand, is to contribute to peace and development by promoting  collaboration among Member States through education, science, culture and communication. We have very  carefully studied the two important documents of the General Conference, the draft Medium-Term Strategy for
1996-2001 and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. By and large, we endorse and support many of  the proposals. We thank the Director-General and the Secretariat for the lucid presentation of the two  documents, which we believe, as modifïed by the Executive Board, reflect the mission of UNESCO.
22.7 We are happy that UNESCO still recognizes women, youth and the least developed countries as  priority groups in the Organization’s activities. We note the privileged place accorded to lifelong education for  all. We also note with satisfaction the increased involvement of UNESCO in higher education, now faced with  many problems whose solution often transcends national frontiers. UNESCO must therefore continue to  encourage the flow of information and experience on trends and developments in higher education, promote  thinking and research on its role and function, and assist Member States in their efforts to develop their high-  level training and research capabilities. We also wish to stress the importance of educational statistics. We have  found the National Educational Statistical Information Systems (NESIS) useful and we hope UNESCO Will be  able to support the development of this programme and be more involved in the training of trainers that we are  undertaking.
22.8 The new Education and Training Policy of Ethiopia which is responsive to the country’s new  democratic vision, needs and aspirations, is in full swing throughout the land. The new policy addresses and  redresses tlie problem of the education system that was characterized by low participation, very high  centralization, bureaucratization and inequitable distribution of facilities. Our new education policy is designed  to: provide relevant and quality education; provide educational opportunities to nations and nationalities;  narrow the gender gap; decentralize and devolve decision-making power to the regions; make the curriculum  region-related; and improve the quality, administration and training of teaching staff.
22.9 Ethiopia is aware of the important role played by science and technology in national development and  lias therefore given it high priority. The Government of Ethiopia allocates up to 1.5 per cent of GDP to  supporting and sustaining different science and technology activities. A National Science and Technology  Council, the highest decision-making body, headed by the Prime Minister, has been set up to promote science  and technology. Thus, we appreciate and welcome a11 UNESCO’s efforts to promote science and technology for  development, particularly in Africa and the least developed countries.
22.10 Ethiopia also recognizes the central role of culture in national development. We attach great  importance to the protection of cultural heritage and believe that this activity Will be continuously accorded  high priority. Ethiopia, which is a multi-ethnie country, enjoys a wide variety of cultures. Today, each nation  and nationality lias an environment conducive to developing its culture and using its language for  administrative and educational purposes, which further enhances the culture of peace and national unity.
22.11 We applaud UNESCO’s work in the fïeld of communication and informatics. We note with satisfaction  activities under IPDC for the development of communication infrastructures and national capabilities for the  production and broadcasting of programmes and for training professional communication staff. We also  support and welcome the Intergovernmental Informatics Programme.
22.12 Currently, the democratic rights of expression, assembly, speech, and SO on, of the citizens of Ethiopia  are being exercised, unlike the situation during the previous regimes. With the proclamation of the press law,  press freedom and private media are blossoming. TO date, some 228 newspapers and 65 magazines have been  registered and have obtained licences to operate in the media. The Broadcast Act for electronic media has been  drafted and submitted for adoption,
22.13 As you a11 know, 1994 and 1995 have been years of very intense activities in the field of population  and development at both national and international level. Three important events were the United Nations  Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, the World Summit for Social Development in  Copenhagen, and the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. Population concerns are  an intrinsic part of development. Through decentralization, the Government of Ethiopia is putting power in the  hands of local communities which Will use their own traditions and cultural approaches towards participation  in development.
22.14 The new Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia is also committed to upholding United Nations  principles in the promotion of women’s rights. Ethiopia has taken measures to rectify the undemocratic  practices of the past and to ensure equality of women in terms of income, power and decision-making. One  great move in this direction has been the issuance of a national policy on Ethiopian women which aims at  improving their situation. The new Constitution now accords women equal rights with men before the law, and  equal rights to participate in political, economic, social and culture life. The Platform of Action of the Beijing  Conference, which in many ways attracted world attention, Will hopefully eliminate the disparity between  rhetoric and what women actually experience in their daily lives. Good intentions are simply not enough unless  translated into action. As women are practical, they expect practical solutions to gender bias and prejudice.  Improvement in the status of women Will mean narrowing down gaps in a11 sectors of development, thereby  ensuring peace.
22.15 Finally, Mr President, we would like to express our concern about the implementation of the  Participation Programme, which we believe is very crucial for the collaboration of UNESCO witb its Member  States. 1 wish the Conference every success, and 1 also wish UNESCO a happy Jubilee.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam, for your contribution. 1 now cal1 on H.E. Mr Gerhard Hiwat, Minister of  Education of Suriname.
24.1 Mr HIWAT (Suriname):  Mr President of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me  lïrst, speaking for the Government of Suriname, to congratulate Mr Krogh on his election to the presidency.  May wisdom and strength be his guides during this constructive meeting.
24.2 1 would furthermore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Director-General on the concise  and lucid presentation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997 and the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy. The method followed to collect information, namely the organization of subregional and regional  consultations and the interregional conference in Lisbon, has definitely yielded the expected results. 1 am glad  to note that the recommendations of these meetings - and those of the subregional consultation held in  Suriname in July 1994 - are duly reflected in documents 28 C/4 and 28 C/5.
24.3 Mr President, our government was shocked by the devastation caused by this year’s hurricanes in the  Caribbean, and especially on the islands of Saint Maarten, Saint Kitts, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and  Antigua and Barbuda. The Government of Suriname wishes to express its profoundest feelings of sympathy  with these States and appeals to the international community, in particular to the United Nations, to provide a11  possible assistance.
24.4 Mr President, allow me now to briefly touch upon the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997
(28 C/5). First, Major Programme 1 - Towards lifelong education for all. Despite the successes achieved in the  execution of our structural adjustment programme, and undoubtedly including the stabilization of the  Surinamese guilder, our country still has to tope with a brain drain that has not left the educational system  untouched. The production of school materials, among other things, is now jeopardized. We therefore welcome  UNESCO’s contribution in paragraph 01118 regarding the development of learning materials and  paragraph 01124 concerning literacy and post-literacy activities.
24.5 Alter a successful subregional meeting organized with UNESCO’s assistance by the Association of  Educational Planners in Suriname in 1993, the need was felt by the Caribbean participants for follow-up action.  The establishment of a subregional network of educational planners would be most welcome in our region.  Therefore, UNESCO is being asked to assist in the realization of this initiative to benefit the joint effort for  improving the educational system in our region.
24.6 In order to enhance our appreciation of teachers, the Ministry of Education has decided to place more  emphasis on Teachers’ Day, when the most outstanding teacher at each level Will be honoured. We would  appreciate it if UNESCO would give its support to this project.
24.7 Regarding Major Programme II - The sciences in the service of development, Mr President,  experiments with the cultivation of fresh water shrimps, the increased production of crude oil and experiments  in the agricultural and mining sectors are proof of our exertions in the fïeld of science and technology. Our  government supports a11 UNESCO programmes dealing with solar and wind energy. For Third World  countries, these means of generating energy cari be very helpful.
24.8 Our delegates to the subregional conferences for National Commissions and Secretaries-General, held  in Suriname and Jamaica respectively, have already expressed the wish of the Government of Suriname to be  thc host country of a subregional UNESCO office for social sciences. Our government would like to reiterate  this wish to thc General Conference.
24.9 Referring to Major Programme III - Cultural development: the heritage and creativity, the most  important subregional festival, Carifesta, was held in Trinidad in August of this year. It provided our country,  with its Dutch colonial background, with a better understanding of the Caribbean peoples, most of whom speak  English. This is especially important for us since we have now joined CARICOM, the Caribbean community.  Carifesta lias flourished and is now an event that cannot be overlooked. UNESCO should therefore continue to  support the Member States which organize it.
24.10 Mr President, the tare of our monuments is starting to improve in our country. As a stimulus, a  certificate of merit is issued by one non-governmental organization to individuals and institutions that are  responsible for thesc monuments and take good tare of them. Further assistance from UNESCO for the  preservation of our cultural heritage Will be much appreciated, especially regarding the maintenance and  restoration of historic monuments. There are also UNESCO-sponsored exchange programmes that are  important for small countries unablc to afford these costs. In tbis framework, support from UNESCO Will be  much appreciated by Suriname.
24.11 1 would draw your attention to the fact mat we would also like to join the SICLAC project referred to  in paragraph 03007 of document 28 C/5. We therefore kindly request UNESCO to provide assistance under the  said paragraph for the procurement of equipment to Chat effect.
24.12 Allow me, finally, to focus on the proposed transdisciplinary projects and activities. Our government is  aware that the future of a country is decided by the situation of its youth. Much attention is therefore being  given to this sector of our population. As is the case a11 over the world, our country has to deal with the  problems of drugs, youth prostitution, youth criminality and the disintegration of moral values and standards.  International assistance is essential if WC are to prepare our Young people to face these threats to humankind.  Thcrefore, Mr President, we urge UNESCO to consider projects submitted by us in support of our activities in  favour of youth .
24.13 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rapid changes are taking place in a11 our societies. A new Draft  Medium-Term Strategy lias been outlined, anticipating changes to corne. We hope that UNESCO’s role Will  become ever more signifïcant in the world and that the commemoration of its lïftieth anniversary Will mark the  beginning of a new hope for a better future. Thank you, Mr President.  (Mr Krogh, Denmark, resumes the Chair)
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. 1 now give tbe floor to MS Huguette Redegeld, Vice-President of  ATD Fourth World.
26.1 Mme REDEGELD (Mouvement international ATD Quart Monde) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, la misère est une blessure dans nos sociétés. Elle les ampute de  l’intelligence et de la contribution de ceux qui la subissent. C’est pour cela que le père Joseph Wresinski a voulu  sortir les plus pauvres de l’ombre et de l’oubli et donner sens à ce qu’ils vivent. C’est pour cela qu’il a voulu les  faire entrer dans la vie publique et par là dans l’histoire commune de l’humanité. C’est pour cela qu’il a  inauguré le 17 octobre 1987, sur le Parvis des droits de l’homme et des libertés à Paris, une dalle en hommage  aux victimes de la faim, de la violence et de l’ignorance, et lancé ce mêmejour ce qui est devenu la “Journée  mondiale du refus de la misère”.
26.2 Le père Joseph a voulu réhabiliter les plus pauvres. Pour le faire, il n’est pas parti d’une technique ou  dune quelconque action politique. Il est parti de son regard d’homme sur la misère. Et c’est à travers ce regard  qu’il nous demande d’apprendre à voir le monde. Ce regard nous rappelle qu’atteindre les plus pauvres reste un  défi pour tous nos pays et pour la communauté internationale. Le père Joseph ne cessait de nous avertir qu’un  pauvre cache toujours un plus pauvre échappant à nos lois, à nos programmes, a nos politiques de  développement.
26.3 D’expérience nous savons qu’au-delà de chaque projet mis en oeuvre, de chaque structure creée, de  chaque loi votée, il reste toujours dans les pays riches des familles oubliées dans un terrain vague, entre deux  communes, dont personne ne croit qu’elles soient dignes et capables d’entrer dans le cadre de la loi.  D’expérience nous savons qu’il reste totrjours dans les pays en développement des familles accrochées à la pente  d’un ravin dont les cahutes en adobe sont régulièrement détruites par les pluies et dont nul ne songe qu’elles  devraient être atteintes en premier par le développement.
26.4 Le 25 octobre dernier, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez rappelé que le défï de cette session  était d’arrêter la Stratégie à moyen terme de l’UNESCO. “Notre souci premier, avez-vous dit, doit Ctre la  consolidation de la paix : consolider la paix pour éviter le fléau de la guerre ; pour vaincre la pauvreté?  l’analphabétisme et la faim ; pour assurer à chacun le libre actes aux installations éducatives ; pour promouvoir  l’émancipation de l’être humain par un meilleur partage du savoir”.
26.5 Vaincre la pauvreté, l’analphabétisme et la faim, partager le savoir, partager les savoirs, jeter des ponts  entre les exclus de la société et ceux qui y ont une place, n’est-ce pas ce qu’attendent les plus pauvres de  partout ? C’est certainement cela que nous transmet cet homme du Burkina Faso, lorsqu’il dit : “Il faut que toute  cette misère finisse, pour qu’enfin nous trouvions la paix” ; ou encore ces jeunes au Canada, lorsqu’ils écrivent,  à l’occasion du 17 octobre, cette année : “11 faut que nous refusions la misère parce qu’elle est irrespectueuse et  mortelle”.
26.6 La Stratégie à moyen terme de 1’UNECO et en particulier l’Année internationale pour l’élimination de  la pauvreté donneront-elles à toutes celles et tous ceux qui oeuvrent contre la misère des raisons de croire, avec  les pauvres du monde, qu’un avenir meilleur est possible ? Cette stratégie affirmera-t-elle, à travers les  engagements pris, que la misère n’est pas une fatalité ? Nous le croyons, nous le croyons avec vous. Nous VOUS  faisons confiance, vous saurez traduire en termes éthiques et opérationnels cet appel du père Joseph, lancé au  nom des plus pauvres, “pour que naisse une terre solidaire, une terre, notre terre où tout homme aurait mis le  meilleur de lui-même avant que de mourir”. Je vous remercie.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Next on our list is Mr Robert Wedgeworth, President of the International  Federation of Library Associations and institutions (IFLA). But 1 see lie is not here, SO 1 cal1 on MS Renate  Peltzer, Representative of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU).
28.1 MS PELTZER (International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, ICITU):  Mr Prcsident, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, UNESCO is celebrating its fïftieth  anniversary this year and tbe ICFTU, on behalf of its 190 member organizations in 135 countries, wishes to be  among the many congratulators applauding the achievements since its creation. Looking back should be an  encouragement for the tasks ahead, for they Will not be easy. UNESCO has a leading role in the area of social  progress and social development, and the social imbalances we witness today are certainly alerting this  Organization. Unemployment levels are unsustainably high; workers increasingly face the choice between  unemployment and insecure low-paid jobs. Women worldwide receive on average two thirds of the male wage.  A result of deliberate cutbacks in public services is the lack of access to adequate health tare and education for  millions of people in developing countries, but more and more also in industrialized countries. At the World
405    Summit for Social Development in March of this year, world leaders acknowledged that a world driven by the  global market alone is socially unacceptable, politically dangerous and unproductive. This turning-point should  be another encouragement for UNESCO fully to play its role in promoting social integration.
2x.2 Ministers most directly concerned with the social agenda - labour, health and education - are often  forced by budgetary constraints to defer or to give up their policy plans that would ensure social progress. We  believe you could enlist labour and other democratic organizations as your natural allies by involving them in  the design of policy and programmes. Even the World Bank now endorses the value of trade unions; the World  Development Report 1995 is about ‘Workers in an Integrated World’. This confirms the major role that the  social partners play in the economic, social and cultural life of society - also beyond the bread-and-butter issues  trade unions are usually concerned with. As a trade union organization we have a keen interest in education  and training. We are particularly interested in vocational training as much as, if not even more than,  employers. However, this fact is not being taken into account in this lield of UNESCO’s activities - a fact that  surely ought to be remedied. Considering the changing requirements of the world of work, we as a workers’  organization naturally promote the concept of lifelong learning. We therefore support the proposa1 to make  lifelong education a top priority within the Draft Medium-Term Strategy. Trade unions are in fact at the same  time providers and users of adult education and we welcome, therefore, the decision to hold the fifth UNESCO  International Conference on Adult Education in 1997.
28.3 In recent years we have seen governments discover the single-issue or grass-mots types of non-  governmental organizations. The doors to the United Nations and the Special Agencies were opened wide to  receive them. A new order managing the diversity of input has now to be found. This Conference, too, is to  discuss and adopt new directives conceming UNESCO’s relation with non-governmental organizations. We  would like to warn against new imbalances. It would be a mistake to give more weight to technical NGOs at the  expense of NGOs that represent large and important parts of society. This is particularly true of those NGOs  that are democratic mass organizations such as trade unions. While we appreciate the intention to encourage  international affiliation or even the forming of national civil organizations, UNESCO must clearly demonstrate  its undoubtedly scrupulous respect for freedom of association. The preamble of the proposed directives states  that ‘since UNESCO is not a funding institution, these relations Will be essentially of an intellectual nature’.  May we recommend that this statement be reflected throughout the text delining the relations between  UNESCO and the international non-governmental organizations. Thank you.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The last speaker on the list for this morning is Mr Serge Cwajgenbaum,  Representative of the World Jewish Congress.
30.1 M. CWAJGENBAUM (Congrès juif mondial) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, nous tenons tout d’abord à remercier le Président de la Conférence  générale de nous donner la possibilité de nous exprimer en séance plénière et d’exposer notre position devant  cette honorable assemblée.
30.2 En cette année de célébration du cinquantième anniversaire de la création des Nations Unies et de  l’UNESCO, plus que jamais l’esprit de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO demeure un défi permanent qu’il nous  faut sans cesse relever. L’éducation pour tous, le droit à la connaissance, la promotion des droits de l’homme et  la tolérance sont autant de garanties pour que les nations puissent vivre dans l’harmonie, lajustice et la paix.
30.3 Au nom des principales organisations non gouvernementales juives en relation de consultation avec  l’UNESCO, le Congrès juif mondial, le Conseil consultatif des organisations juives, le Conseil international des  femmes juives et le Conseil international du B’nai B’rith, je tiens à souligner les objectifs prioritaires que nous  souhaitons promouvoir et encourager.
30.4 Les actions entreprises par l’UNESCO au cours des dernières décennies dans le domaine de la  promotion des droits de l’homme, de l’éducation pour la paix, la démocratie et la tolérance, nous engagent à  nous mobiliser davantage encore. Cependant force est de constater que, sans cesse et chaque jour, il nous faut  remettre l’ouvrage sur le métier et entreprendre, coordonner et encourager de nouvelles actions. Nous  souhaiterions voir la Conférence générale et le Directeur général de l’UNESCO consacrer plus de moyens et  plus d’efforts à la formation des enseignants et en particulier des professeurs d’histoire et accorder plus  d’attention aux manuels d’histoire et à la manière dont cette matière est enseignée dans chacun des Etats  membres afin que sa connaissance devienne une source de tolérance et de compréhension entre les peuples au
12  lieu d’attiser la haine et l’intolérance. N’oublions pas qu’il y a cinquante ans l’Organisation des Nations Unies et  l’UNESCO naissaient sur les cendres de la seconde guerre mondiale et sur la découverte de l’innommable  génocide des Juifs et des Tsiganes,
30.5 Dans son discours prononcé à New York le 21 février 1995 à l’occasion de l’Année des Nations Unies  pour la tolérance, le Directeur général de l’UNESCO posait la question du résultat que l’on peut attendre dune  telle année et, après avoir passé en revue les tragédies et les tyrannies de par le monde, il concluait sur une note  optimiste en espérant trouver les réponses dans la richesse humaine et en chaque enfant. Oui, Mesdames et  Messieurs, il y a lieu d’espérer, il y a lieu de suivre l’exemple de ceux qui, au Proche-Orient, ont engagé le  dialogue entre Israéliens et Palestiniens, entre Israël et le monde arabe. Quelle autre instance, mieux que  l’UNESCO, peut favoriser les relations interculturelles des peuples bordant la Méditerranée, juifs, chrétiens et  musulmans ?
30.6 Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais indiquer que nous avons pris connaissance avec  grand intérêt du rapport que le Directeur général a présenté à la présente session de la Conférence générale  sous la cote 28 C/23 au sujet de la mise en oeuvre de la Déclaration sur la race et les préjugés raciaux et à  l’établissement duquel les organisations au nom desquelles je parle aujourd’hui ont apporté une contribution.  Permettez-moi à cette occasion de suggérer que la Déclaration soit modifiée afin de rectifier une grave  omission : il serait en effet souhaitable que la notion du combat contre l’antisémitisme soit mentionnée aux  côtés du combat contre le racisme et la xénophobie. Enfin, nous souhaiterions que le projet de Déclaration de  principes et de Plan d’action destiné à donner suite à l’Année des Nations Unies pour la tolérance (dot.
28 C/26) soit modifié et qu’on y ajoute : “telles que le racisme, le fascisme, l’antisémitisme et le nationalisme  agressif’. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the list of speakers for this morning.  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS (suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
3A~OJDKEHHOCTM HO B3HOCAM (nponon>Kenne)  (($2) i&I CrUlpYI  #lm;BB C%i>
32.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now have to present two recommendations from the General Committee  concerning Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), in regard to arrears. With  regard to voting rights at the present session, and Member States in arrears of contributions for 1993 and prior  years, the situation today is as follows: 40 Member States are concerned, as opposed to 41 at the last meeting,  since Senegal has paid its arrears. Communications in due form requesting the right to vote bave in the  meantime been received from Angola, Cuba and Mauritania. The General Committee therefore recommends to  the Conference to grant these States voting rights.
32.2 Another two communications without adequate payment proposals in accordance with tbe provisions  of 26 C/Resolution 23.31 have been received from Somalia and Azerbai,jan. The General Committee suggests  they be given provisional voting rights. Now, then, there Will be 18 States in that group.
32.3 Finally, of the previous eight, now only live Member States remain tbat have sent no communications  at all. Those live Member States, however, are identical with the five Member States which have neither asked  for credentials nor are represented here at the Conference - at least not at the moment - SO 1 believe we cari say  that we have almost cleared the table.
32.4 May 1 ask if the General Conference wishes to give ils consent to the two recommendations by the  General Committee, namely that Angola, Cuba and Mauritania be given the right to vote and that Somalia and  Azerbaijan be given the right to vote on a provisional basis? 1 see no objections. It is SO decided.
407    ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPrAHM3AHMg PAEOTbI (npoRonxeune)  (&i) JLo.cb r=lruj  IfE!Hf: (3%)
33. The PRESIDENT:
1 now give the floor to the representative of the Secretary for an announcement.
34. Le SECRETAIRE ADJOINT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Cet après-midi, après le débat de politique générale, le Président de la  Commission administrative présentera à la plénière le rapport de la Commission administrative sur le point 4.3  de l’ordre du jour, c’est-à-dire l’adoption du plafond budgétaire provisoire pour 1996-1997, puis, à 17 h.30, la  séance plénière accueillera le Président de la République de Guinée équatoriale ; enfin il sera donné lecture  d’un communiqué relatif à la Déclaration de Gênes sur la science et la société, préparée les 8 et 9 octobre 1995  par les représentants de plusieurs académies scientifiques. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée à 12 h.45  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 12.45