Table ronde sur la synthèse préliminaire  du rapport de la Comrnission internationale  sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle
10 novembre 1995 à 15 h.10  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Round Table on the Preliminary Synthesis  of the Report of the International Commission  on Education for the Twenty-First Century
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to yet another innovation of this General Conference, namely, the tirst  of our two Round Tables. As 1 have said before, if UNESCO House had an adequately equipped room, we could  have a true round-table meeting, but as you probably know, the only large room in the building with a round  table is the Executive Board room, and that would have been too small for the audience which is already here.  But even though we are sitting here at the podium in front of you, we are hoping for a round-table spirit.
1.2 1 would like fnst of a11 to welcome, once again, Mr Jacques Delors. You Will all recall, ladies and  gentlemen, the Splendid presentation he made to the General Conference on 30 October. 1 had the privilege of  sitting beside Mr Delors, SO 1 know that it was an extraordinary effort because he was suffering from the flu or  as it is called in French, Za grippe, which is much more serious. But nevertheless, Mr Delors, you did a  marvellous job, and you gave us - together with the printed summary which we all have here in the yellow  booklet - a most adequate and most inspiring background for today’s Round Table.
1.3 Ladies and gentlemen, you Will recall that the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-  First Century is about to finish its work. It Will have a final session in January next year, and then the report  Will be published. This means that a11 of us present here today have a unique opportunity to make an almost  final contribution to the work of the Commission. 1 know that the Commission’s method of work has been  essentially to listen, and to allow itself to be inspired by a wide variety of inputs; what is going to take place  here today Will be yet another input just before it completes its task. Also, 1 would like to remind you that this  meeting is not intended to be a kind of question-and-answer session, with Mr Delors in the position of giving a  press conference. Being a joumalist myself, 1 know that he has no problems in such situations, but that is not  the purpose this afternoon.
1.4 What is intended is a free and open dialogue; and for that reason we Will try to do something which  you may say could have been announced before, but which is an idea that has developed only during the last  stages of the preparation. In a few minutes, Mr Delors Will give you a short introduction which Will basically be  a reminder of the content of the synthesis in front of us. And then we Will try to address, consecutively, three  topics, with Mr Delors responding after each topic has been discussed. And the topics 1 would suggest are the  following: lïrstly, ‘The challenges of the twenty-tirst Century and the corresponding duties of education’;  secondly, ‘The four pillars of learning and leaming throughout life’; and thirdly, ‘The challenge of the renewal  of education systems and major issues in that connection’.
1.5 Now, ladies and gentlemen, 1 know quite well that for those of you who have prepared your  interventions this Will mean some adjustments to follow the sequence of topics; but if we are to have a real  dialogue, it Will be good to be able to take the floor a second and even a third time. Of course, this Will be  something new compared to our usual way of working in UNESCO, but 1 believe that almost a11 of us would  agree that we have a great many meetings where there is just a speakers’ list and we deliver our addresses and  then - more or less happy - we a11 go home and say we have done our work. What we would like here is a real  round table.
1.6 We do have a speakers’ list, however, and 1 Will give the floor accordingly; but if you want to co-  operate and really want to make this an experiment, then you Will divide up your statements according to the  sequence of topics that 1 have suggested. Let me add that for my part 1 have been inspired in the matter by  suggestions from Mr Delors and the Secretariat. Whether this Will work, we shah sec, because this is something  new to UNESCO. If it works, it Will be a major step forward.
1.7 1 now give the floor to the Chairman of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-  First Century. You have the floor, Mr Delors.
2.1 M. DELORS, president de la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle :  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, vous avez, j’imagine, lu et étudié la synthèse  préliminaire qui vous a été communiquée, vous avez peut-être entendu l’exposé oral que j’ai fait devant la  Conférence générale, aussi ne prendrai-je pas beaucoup de votre temps puisqu’aujourd’hui l’essentiel est que  vous ayez la possibilité d’intervenir.
2.2 La manière dont le président de séance a organisé la discussion correspond en réalité aux trois parties  du rapport. La troisième est d’ailleurs la plus importante, puisqu’elle nous amène directement à des réflexions,  propositions, questions et orientations sur les processus éducatifs eux-mêmes. La deuxième partie a pour but de  développer le concept central d’éducation tout au long de la vie que nous avons choisi, non pas parce qu’il faut
522    l/RT  un concept central à tout prix, mais parce qu’il nous a semblé que l’évolution de nos sociétés, de la place du  travail dans ces sociétés, des modes de vie, les mutations technologiques, l’évolution vers un village planétaire,  toutes ces raisons plaidaient en faveur dune éducation tout au long de la vie. L’étude de ces questions est  précédée bien sûr par une analyse qui n’est pas exhaustive, une analyse prospective qui comporte, comme je l’ai  dit la dernière fois, quelques options volontaristes tendant à essayer de planter le décor, et ce avec une certaine  humilité intellectuelle, puisque tous les planificateurs et tous les prospectivistes savent tres bien que l’on peut, à  la rigueur, déceler les grands faits porteurs d’avenir mais qu’il est difficile de décrire dans le détail, et même de  manière relativement générale, les grandes évolutions du futur. Pour ne pas retarder le débat, je vous  rappellerai simplement qu’à un bilan mitige, nuancé du XXe siècle, fait suite une analyse, qui ne se veut ni très  optimiste ni très euphorique, du passé. On aurait d’ailleurs très bien pu reprendre les espoirs qui etaient nés au  début du XXe siècle ou après la grande guerre et tracer un parallele entre les espoirs formulés à cette époque et  les réalités souvent tragiques de ces cinquante dernières années, et j’entends, parmi ces réalités tragiques, le  sous-développement et les inégalités en matière de développement, la situation de la femme, qui reste très  difficile dans de nombreuses régions, les limites de la croissance classique ou ce que l’on appelle les dégâts du  progrès. Cela n’étonnera d’ailleurs personne, puisque l’histoire n’a cessé d’être tragique depuis que nous la  connaissons.
2.3 Toujours est-il que pour essayer de planter ce décor, nous vous avons soumis quelques idées simples.  La mondialisation tout d’abord, qui est un phenomène indiscutable, que personne ne conteste. On pourrait, en  entrant dans des subtilités linguistiques, distinguer entre mondialisation et globalisation, mais laissons cela de  côté, d’autant plus que chaque fois que, dans une réunion internationale, je prononce le mot mondialisation en  français, il est traduit par “globalization” en anglais. Ce phenomène qui s’impose à nous, jusqu’où ira-t-il,  comment s’en accommoder, comment essayer de le maîtriser ? L’éducation ne peut pas rester insensible à cette  donnée, qui nous a d’ailleurs amenes à prendre comme élément d’une thématique générale, peut-être le plus  important avec “l’éducation tout au long de la vie”, “apprendre à vouloir vivre ensemble”, pour essayer  précisement de limiter les risques d’incompréhension et de tension qui existent dans ce monde.
2.4 Deux autres paramètres méritent encore d’être notés. Ils l’ont été dans ce document. Il s’agit, dune  part, compte tenu precisement de ces dégâts du progrès, du passage de la croissance classique, ce que l’on a  appelé dans les pays developpés les 30 glorieuses, à une forme de developpement durable, développement  durable qui a déjà fait d’ailleurs l’objet de nombreux travaux dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies. Je ne  ferai que rappeler le rapport Bruntland ou la Conférence de Rio par exemple. Donc cette notion est desormais  acceptée, me semble-t-il, mais elle a du mal à entrer dans les faits. Sa concrétisation releve sans doute de la  compréhension des responsables du développement, mais l’éducation aussi a son rôle à jouer à cet égard.
2.5 D’autre part, et c’est là le troisième paramètre de ce décor d’ensemble, je citerai le passage des  interrogations sur l’appartenance sociale - ou pour reprendre un mot aujourd’hui à la mode que l’on retrouve  dans toutes les langues, la cohésion sociale - sur le rôle des minorités et sur les conséquences du chômage et de  la pauvrete à la participation democratique. Il y a une evolution vers la démocratie dans de nombreux pays du  monde. Je ne répéterai jamais assez que cette évolution doit s’effectuer selon le rythme et les données propres à  chacun et qu’il n’y a pas un prêt-à-porter de la démocratie que l’on peut exporter tel quel vers n’importe quel  pays. D’ailleurs, les plus anciennes démocraties pourraient aussi, dans certains cas, balayer devant leur porte  car la démocratie, même ancienne, peut être molle. Toujours est-il que les notions qui tournent autour de la  cohésion de la société, de la participation des citoyens, du lien social et de la démocratie nous ont paru aussi un  élément important capable d’inspirer les grandes lignes des politiques de l’éducation dans les années à venir.
2.6 Tels sont les trois élements que je voulais souligner. J’avais également parlé des multiples tensions qui  existent entre le global et le local, entre le moyen terme et le court terme et entre le spirituel et le matériel. Je ne  m’attarderai pas sur elles, d’autant plus que je les ai déjà évoquées dans le cadre d’analyses quej’ai faites  auparavant ou de constats que je vous ai soumis en ce qui concerne le décor prévisible du XXIe siècle. Merci.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Delors, for your introduction. We shall immediately move to the round-  table debate and, if you agree, we Will stick to the suggestions 1 put forward before the introduction by  Mr Delors. 1 dont know if it Will work but 1 think we should try. With your co-operation we cari do it SO if a11 of  you on the speakers’ list and those who want to take the floor co-operate, we could develop a true dialogue  today.
3.2 The first topic in broad terms Will be the challenges of the twenty-tïrst Century and the corresponding  duties of education. The second topic, roughly an hour later, Will be the four pillars of learning and learning
523    throughout life and 1 remind you, as you may remember from Mr Delors’s introduction to the plenary, that these  four main pillars are learning tu know, learning tu do, learning tu be and learning tu live together. SO there is  a cluster of concepts and notions. 1 take it, from reading your synthesis, that these are at the very centre of the  basic philosophy of the report. The third topic, as you said, Mr Delors, Will certainly be the most expansive one  in your report on the new educational systems and the major issues. We Will try although it may not work. We  Will see. But now at least 1 challenge you to try a different kind of interaction from the one we usually have at  UNESCO meetings. The tirst speaker on the list is the representative of Chile.
(4.1) Mr GARCIA HUIDOBRO (Chile) (T ranslation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Jacques Delors, it is rather diffïcult for me to follow your suggestion to the letter  because 1 have a very short but general comment which 1 should like to address basically to the central point made  in the Commission’s report, namely its proposa1 regarding education throughout life. 1 cari summarize my view by  stating that 1 am in basic agreement with the less novel and more conventional aspects of the report but that 1 am  not SO happy with its new proposals, in other words with the resuscitation of lifelong education.
(4.2) The report paints a very clear picture of globalization and of the changes taking place at this century’s  end, and opens up thinking on education to the challenges of the future. It also reaffirms the main focuses and  concerns of current thinking on education, such as the priority given to basic education, the reform and  diversification of secondary education, and the centrality and complexity of the problem of the teaching staff.
(4.3) It is very clear and practical in its recommendations on co-operation. Indeed, the Commission, in  proposing education throughout life, takes a number of irrefutable facts into account. It is clear to a11 of us that  people go on learning throughout their lives. It is also clear that this fact, which has always been known, is now  being made more conspicuously obvious by the pace at which science and technology are advancing and by the  same token becoming obsolescent, resulting in rapid changes in working practices. Lastly, the greater  opportunities now being offered to many people to ‘go back to school’ at different times in their lives are a source  of great enrichment. These are three important elements which have to be taken into account when we corne to  think of education. However, to proceed on this basis to propose education throughout life could give rise to  serious misunderstandings.
(4.4) What sort of education are we talking about? In order to clarify matters, 1 propose that when speaking of  education, we observe two basic ground rules. The first, semantic in nature, would be to reserve the term  education for a specific social institution, the education system, through which society teaches its members. In  other words, the fact that people Will go on learning throughout their lives does not mean that education, as a  social institution, cornes to be something that is coterminous with people’s lives.
(4.5) The second would be political: we have to concern ourselves with public education and, in the first  place, with the basic education which the State has to provide for everybody for reasons of equity and also for  reasons involving democratic development and economic growth. It follows that while such education may not be  guaranteed for everybody it must be open to everybody.
(4.6) Seen in this light, the Commission’s main proposa1 cari be said to involve a risk of watering down the  priorities which have continued to be established from the Jomtien Conference onwards and of causing people to  lose their bearings rather than offering them guidance. It is of the utmost importance - as, in fact, the report  hastens to acknowledge and underscore - to go back to concentrating on basic education, to continue exploring  avenues that Will really make this possible, to be attentive to successes and failures alike, and to keep our sights  set tenaciously and obstinately on the target of high quality basic education for all. There may be nothing very  new about such an approach, but we believe that it is the best service that UNESCO cari render humanity on this  threshold of the twenty-first Century. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the representative of Chile. It has been suggested to me by the Secretariat that 1 read out the  speakers’ list as it now stands. The next speaker Will be Kenya, to be followed by Brazil, Thailand, Chad, India,  Pakistan, China, World Organization for Early Childhood Education, Australia, International Association for  the Child’s Right to Play, Spain, Jordan, Malaysia, Croatia, World Leisure and Recreation Association, France,  Germany, Netherlands, Egypt, Colombia, Bulgaria, Saudi Arabia, International Humanist and Ethical Union,  Uruguay, Turkey and Trinidad and Tobago. That is the list SO far. 1 now give the floor to Kenya.
6.1 Mr KOMORA (Kenya):  Thank you Mr President. Since 1 had prepared a short statement, not organized the way you  suggested, please allow me to just read it and the ideas Will fall into place as you receive them.
6.2 Realizing the diversity of education offered in many countries of the world, 1 am left with no word but  to thank the Chairman of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century, Mr Delors,  for the monumental task of putting the document together. 1 want to concur with the report in identifying a  central theme which knows no boundaries - that is, the way in which education cari cultivate the creative  potential of each individual and, at the same time, contribute to promoting cohesion in an increasingly  globalized society, which reminds me, Mr Chairman, of the text in ‘Long Walk to Freedom’ by President  Mandela. He recounts a stopover he made in the north of the Arctic Circle at Goose Bay, where a group of  Young Inuits had corne to get a chance to meet him. In talking to these Young people, one of them said, ‘Vive  the ANC!‘. Mr Mandela recounts that what struck him SO forcefully was how small the planet has become for a  teenage Inuit living on the roof of the world to have watched tbe release of a political prisoner on the southern  tip of Africa; for how else would this Young boy know the ANC, Viva Africa, and that Mr Mandela had been  freed?
6.3 When presenting the theme of education for the twenty-lirst Century, the report identified four main  pillars, namely, learning tu be, learning tu know, learning tu do and learning tu live together. In this process of  globalization, where the common wealth of knowledge is going to play a central role, one begins to sympathize  with the dilemma in which Africa Will find itself: how many children in Africa Will have the means through  their family set-ups and through schools to have access to competent knowledge, to proper continuous learning  and knowledge, to imbue them with a spirit of competitiveness, with appropriate skills and with the knowledge  to learn to live togetber at home and beyond borders?
6.4 Mr President, nothing exemplifies more the duality of approach to education than the tensions between  the spiritual and the new culture - the material. Will these not entai1 a further break-up of family units, the  basis of life in Africa, witb its traumatizing consequences, involving the lives of three quarters of African  families in the traditional areas? How about inequity and inequality in terms of access to information between  rural and urban settings? Will not the process of democratization, in itself a process of competition, set family  against family, unless, of course, it is preceded by lessons of tolerance in ethnically volatile relations? How  about the conflict envisaged in the transformation of traditional and ethical values into the concept of existence  by different societies, particularly in Africa? One foresees a duality of approach in these issues, but the problem  is that everybody is running hard without looking back or sideways. It seems to me that a race is being run;  conformity becomes the order of the day and self-identity Will depend on one’s position in this global race. As  you know, Mr President, this position is dependent on strength and endurance, which are decided by the means  at one’s disposal. 1 wish, therefore, to appeal for Africa’s special particularities to be taken into consideration, to  be taken as a basis for the ability and means to provide lifelong education for all, at all levels. SO that our people  are not left walking in the knowledge-ghettos when everyone else is sprinting on the knowledge superhighways.
6.5 Mr President, these few remarks emphasize the need for Member States to discuss this report  extensively in relation to its application and implementation and, of course, for a lot more commitment on the  part of our brothers and sisters in the developed part of the global village to uplift the less privileged sector of  the human race in the other part of the village. 1 would like to add that 1 am happy that the report is not yet  completed. The report could therefore contain some of the views which Will be given here and in the Member  States. Thank you, Mr President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 now give the floor to the representative of Brazil.
(8.1) Mr MOSCARDO (Brazil) (Translation from the Spanish):  This meeting represents a dream fulfilled. 1 should like to congratulate not only the President on this  initiative, but also the delegate of Australia, Mr Jones, who has always promoted the culture of dialogue in the  Board. From what 1 see, this attempt at dialogue is being made not SO much in the Board as at the General  Conference.
(8.2) 1 should also like to congratulate Mr Delors on his presentation of this report. For one month now, we  have been wending our way through a desert of ideas, as long monologues are delivered by the delegations. The  Director-General, who is a very generous man, says that he has learnt a great deal from these monologues, but 1  do not think that the same could be said for most of the delegations. His generosity is that of a poet. As 1 see it,  we are waging war, a war against ignorance and exclusion. And I welcome the delivery of the arms needed to  fight this war, even though perhaps only in the last few days. 1 believe that discussing the Delors report is the best  way of commemorating the tïftieth anniversary of this Organization.
(8.3) In the first place, the report is an alternative to one-track thinking. 1 believe that it provides us with  ideas, with a vision of a necessary Utopia. It goes against the trend of conditional thinking, which is socially  oriented and is bound up with structural adjustment, as embodied in the laws of the market. Here we have a man,  a political figure, who calls attention to the need for sound policy-making and who is presenting us with a real  hummitas for the coming Century. Let us fïrst consider the emphasis on education throughout life. We observe  that whereas in our countries, as in a11 countries, in spite of globalization and technology, people are talking about  the major problem of social welfare and the problem of increasing working hours, Mr Delors cornes to speak to us  about lifelong education, of education throughout life as a solution which UNESCO cari offer as an alternative to  the one-track thinking that is spreading in the Bretton Woods institutions. 1 also note the idea of free time:  Mr Delors tells us that free time is now more important than work, that the organization of free time is more  important than work in organizations and in modern society.
(8.4) We are grateful to him for paving the way for humnitus and hope that this report Will have an impact  among the Heads of State at the ceremonies to be held on 16 November. The Director-General has told us that he  has received many cordial letters from presidents and countries. 1 think that it would be very helpful if the  presidents coming here could take back to their countries an exercise in thinking of this kind.
(8.5) It is a privilege to benefit from the participation of a political figure of the standing of Mr Delors, who  offers us prospects and sets out problems of such profundity. 1 believe that it is a great challenge for us all. Thank  you.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Moscardo. The next speaker is the representative of Thailand.
10.1 Mr TUNSIRI (Thailand):  Thank you Mr President. It is a real joy to have read through the Commission’s Report on Education  for the Twenty-First Century and 1 have to congratulate Mr Jacques Delors for the success of his work. 1 am  pleased to say also that 1 endorse the whole text, believing that it reflects the reality of our time, with its  emphasis on the psychological aspects of human existence - having to tope witb the tensions of our time, mat  is, between the global and the local, the universal and the individual. The report is also a step forward from
1972 when Learning to Be was produced, in particular, in its formulation of the goals of education as  consisting of learning to know, learning to do, learning to be and learning to live together. Calling this whole  idea of leaming the pillars of the educational system, the report advocates the system of lifelong learning as the  archetype of the educational system for the twenty-tïrst Century,
10.2 Since 1 fully endorse the whole text of this report, my contribution Will be very selective. 1 Will touch  on one or two points only. My first hypothesis is this: if the lifelong education system is to be the archetype of  the future generation, how do we envisage the pillars of such a system? 1 propose three pillais. The first would  be the hardware aspect, the second would be the software aspect and the third - what 1 would cal1 the ‘people-  ware’ aspect. People-ware may be jargon, but such terminology is intended to underlie the role of actors and  learners and potential leamers as being as important as the other two ‘wares’. Perhaps an even more important  question is: as with other demand-side users, how cari we produce educationai goods and software? More  frequently, reading materials are produced and disseminated only to find their ultimate destiny in the dustbin  for lack of the demand side of the user.
10.3 Hence, in my conceptualization of the community-based learning system in Thailand, 1 underscore the  important role of the people in the community, the creation and nurturing of indigenous leadership, group  organization and socio-economic activities as a basis for stimulating demand for further learning. The three  aspects, then, the hardware, the software and the people-ware are the three pillais of the lifelong learning
527    system, in my opinion. Firstly, with regard to the hardware aspect, there are many components, apart from the  computer hardware and, thinking of the formal schooling system, here 1 would agree with Mr Jacques Delors  that after the compulsory schooling system say, six to nine years of the compulsory system depending upon  each individual country, education beyond this level should also be regarded as an individual right. What  should be insisted upon is that such individuaI rights to education up to twelftb grade or beyond should be, or  could be, staggered throughout a person’s entire working life. Thus, everyone who finishes compulsory  schooling should be given a voucher equivalent to two or four years of education in a public institution, for  which the State Will pay the fees. The voucher cari be used anytime, thus guaranteeing every Citizen two to four  years’ education beyond the compulsory system. Coupled with this structural change, 1 would also propose the  new accreditation system in which we have to give credit values to on-the-job training experience as partial  credit for formal continuing education at public institutions.
10.4 Secondly, as regards the software and people-ware aspects, particularly in the context of the formal  school system, 1 would like to pay attention to curriculum reform at the basic level and beyond - the certain goal  and direction to be in conformity with the four basic requirements, as emphasized by the report, of Zearning to  know, learning to do, learning to be and learning to live together. Let me elaborate on these four aspects:  Zearning to know is best developed when the spirit of inquiry is stimulated and, in my personal opinion, the  Western tradition is unique and more pronounced than the Eastem tradition in its emphasis on the inquiry  process of learning. Such a process of leaming is essential for nurturing the love of leaming which is an  indispensable condition for continuing lifelong learning. Secondly, Zearning to do is sometimes confused with  manual tasks, but in fact it entails activities which require the application of knowledge. The practical exercise  in Tibet, for example, cari be part of the doing of legal or literary studies. Even community surveying is the  practical aspect of social studies. But the ideal aspect of Zearning to do is the holistic and interdisciplinary  approach which may involve the ‘project’ type of activity, such as the simulated irrigation projects which we cari  decide at the school. Learning to do is increasingly important when economic school learning is prolonged  from the fïrst six years of elementary schooling to 12 years of schooling. The longer students stay at school, the  more alienated they tend to become hem the technical world of reality. Hence there is a need for built-in  activities in ail curriculum subjects.
10.5 Learning to be, as an important element, may be the least understood. Learning to be, in Zen, is an  open-ended formula. In the Buddhist tradition, leaming to be free Erom ail anxieties, a11 desires, or ignorance is  the ideal; freedom in the Western concept is external freedom. The emphasis is on acquisition of individual  rights and power to effect change in the extemal world; but for Buddhists the essence of freedom is internal; it  is the liberation from inner constraint, liberation from ignorance and from material attachment and from  unworthy desires, and in another sense it is to live in harmony with nature. In the increasingly wide gap,  between the haves and the have-nots, between the North and the South, as well as within countries, it is time  we paid serious attention to investigating the concept of inner freedom. As Gandhi said a long time ago, ‘Al1  the world’s resources are enough for all the people’s needs, but not for a11 the people’s greeds’. Any economic  system based on the premise of human greed is bound to burst at the seams.
10.6 Ladies and gentlemen, if Zearning to be in the Buddhist or Gandhian sense cannot be attained for  practical reasons, it is expected that Zearning to Zive together would be an alternative. But in learning to live  together there is a necessary give and take. The emphasis should be on the give rather than the take and if, in  an organization such as UNESCO, we are to be the mode1 of international solidarity and we have not yet  demonstrated qualities conducive to solidarity, then there is certainly something wrong with us. In living  together the Christian ideal is on the giving and, as was said by the prophets a long time ago, by giving you  Will receive. His Majesty King Bhumibol of Thailand, in his Royal Address on his birthday two or three years  ago, also chose to emphasize this aspect of human relationships. Thus, our teaching at school should be  directed at the cultivation of the mind, of manners, of self-sacrifice, of self-discipline and of giving rather than  taking. In short, Mr President, curriculum reform is needed to bring about changes which fully promote the  fourfold aspects of human existence in the twenty-tïrst Century if we are going to survive. Thank you very  much .
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the representative of Chad.
12. M. WAYOR (Tchad) :  C’est déjà une pédagogie que d’avoir dans la salle une approche différente du dialogue, car, en entrant  ici, nous avions une autre idée de la table ronde, cela pour dire que je ne pourrai aborder la question de la  manière dont vous l’avez présentée. Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Tchad prend la parole pour relever
528    l/RT  la qualité du travail et la pertinence des idées exprimées dans la synthèse et aussi pour féliciter chaleureusement  la Commission de ce travail. Nous félicitons également et particulierement M. Delors, président de ladite  Commission, pour son allocution sincère et empreinte dune grande humilité, chose très rare dans le monde  aujourd’hui. Nous sommes heureux de constater que la Commission a souligné avec force le rôle de  l’enseignant, du maître et du professeur dans l’éducation du XXIe siècle. Nous pensons egalement que les livres  ne doivent pas disparaître, si l’on doit apprendre toute la vie. L’éducation au XXIe siècle se prepare et les  activités de la Commission en sont une preuve. 11 y a donc lieu de préparer et de former l’enseignant dans cette  perspective. Aussi le Tchad soutient-il les propositions et recommandations de la Commission demandant aux  Etats membres de donner à l’UNESCO les moyens de son action, c’est-à-dire d’aider les Etats membres à se  préparer. Monsieur le Président, nous pensons enfin que l’espoir peut prendre le pas sur l’angoisse, à condition  que l’argent, pour employer un mot qu’on utilise très rarement dans ce genre de réunion, devienne plus humain,  et que ne comptent pas que les comptes. Nous rêvons, mais éveillés. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank you. 1 now give the floor to the representative of India.
14.1 Mr AYYER (India):  As suggested by you, 1 Will make three modular interventions. In the fïrst 1 would like to touch upon  the two issues of diversity, or 1 would like to cal1 it complexity, and lifelong learning. As a person from a high-  population developing country, 1 would like to say at the very outset that 1 am entirely in agreement with the  philosophical underpinnings of the report.
14.2 When we look around, what cornes out very clearly is that there is greater and greater diversity and  complexity all around. One does not know whether humanity is progressing or regressing, whether history has  a meaning or whether human life is progressing at all. But one thing we cari be sure of is that human life is  becoming more complex. The same process of technology and economy which promotes globalization and  homogenization is also promoting particular variation. We have our own example in India: there are millions  of Indians who are more at home in the West than as Indians in rural India. But at the same time, what we find  is that thanks to technologies, particularly to information technologies, Indians a11 over the world, whether they  live in Fiji or Paris or the United States, are able to listen to Hindu devotional music, see Indian films and are  retaining Indianness to a greater extent in an Indian environment. Al1 the melting-pots no longer melt.
14.3 We usually discuss the diversity between the rich and the poor nations. It is equally important to take  note of the diversity within the developing countries. For example, in my country there is not one India, nor  even two Indias, but several Indias. We have a population of about 150 million that is becoming integrated in  the developed world. We have another 250 million denied basic abilities. And another 500 million in the  middle with widely varying conditions. We have to meet the basic education needs of about 450 million adult  illiterates, 28 million out-of-school children and the rising aspirations of millions of people for quality  education which equips them for the world of work. And on top of that, we have to provide a first-class  education right on the frontiers of knowledge.
14.4 This diversity or complexity is not limited to nations alone. There is also great diversity within  individuals. For example, an Indian who wears jeans or listens to Michael Jackson and Madonna or works in a  multinational corporation should not be mistaken for a universalist. He cari still be a Hindu fundamentalist at  heart. For example, thinkers like Pascal marvel at the complexity of human nature. 1 would only like to say that  the contradictions are becoming more variegated.
14.5 Now then, education concerns the development of the human personality. What personalities are we  talking about? These personalities are like kaleidoscopes and are becoming more complex. Once you have  diverse systems like this, 1 think the education system also has to be very diverse. And we cari see that the  school is going to become just an initiator in the educational process for preparing children to get into the  forma1 education system. The school itself is going to be some sort of an initiator and is to be followed by  widely varying forms of lifelong education.
14.6 1 should also like to say that, as it is in many developing countries, the education system is in great  crisis. There is an enormous criticism of the education systems, their inability to deliver and their iniquities. 1  would only like to say that the challenges are becoming more intricate and complex because of the multiple  realities that are emerging among individuals, within countries and among the rich and the poor. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker is the representative of Pakistan.
16. Mr KHAN (Pakistan):  Mr President, my comments pertain to the ‘Four Pillars of Learning’ that you mentioned. 1 was  wondering if 1 should speak now or later.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 am grateful for that question. Now, 1 know full well that launching this idea of a thematic debate at  the very start of the meeting was too late, and 1 must admit that my reason for doing SO, nevertheless, was to  prepare our minds for that way of working in the future. But 1 realize that many of you have corne here with  prepared statements of very high quality and with inner coherence, which cannot just be split up without notice.
17.2 SO 1 have just consulted with Mr Delors, and although this is in a way a disappointment, we think that  it would be better simply to work steadily through the list of speakers - there are 31, SO far - and Mr Delors Will  make his comments at the end.
17.3 Obviously, this Will be less of an exchange and a much more free-wheeling way of delivering your  views, but 1 like to think that it Will retain some of the qualities of a round table. Certainly, what 1 have learned  from this is that it is too late for tomorrow with the Pérez de Cuéllar Report, but for the future - we shall have  to structure such round tables very carefully beforehand, SO that they Will be more constructive.
17.4 At this point, however, let me promise one thing, and that is that if anyone who has already had the  fIoor has omitted something and wishes to corne back, then 1 Will give them the floor for a second time.
17.5 And now, the representative of Pakistan has the floor.
18.1 Mr KI-IAN (Pakistan):  Mr President, we deeply appreciate the initiative taken by UNESCO in setting up the International  Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century. The development of the individual human personality  in collective society is determined by the quality and content of the education to which those concemed are  exposed, as well as the environment outside the educational institutions. The landscape of the next millennium  Will be extremely different from that of the one which is coming to an end. Meticulous forethought and  planning are necessary SO that we cari fully meet the requirements of the next Century and tailor the education  system in anticipation of its demands.
18.2 The preliminary synthesis prepared by the Commission makes a very useful classification of four types  of leaming: learning to know; Zearning to do; Zearning to be; and Zearning to Zive together. In the twentieth  Century, carrying on the ancient tradition of learning, we have made great progress in learning to know: much  more tban half of humanity is literate. Progress in learning to do, that is, in using knowledge - especially  science and technology - to further human progress, has also been intensive during the past two centuries.  Hence, we have made great strides in learning to know and learning to do. Learning to be is another important  aspect which is rather difficult to conceptualize but, in the words of the report, ‘everyone Will need to exercise  greater independence and judgement combined with a strong sense of personal responsibility for the attainment  of common goals’.
18.3 However, it is in the last stage of learning, that is, learning to live together that we have collectively  failed. We find that even the most civilized, the most educated, the most developed societies suffer from deep  prejudices of colour, religion and creed which are exhibited in discrimination, persecution, group killings,  ethnie cleansing and other denials of human rights. In the next Century, the aspect of learning which Will have  to be emphasized most is leaming to live together, or what we cal1 ‘the culture of peace’, or what we cal1 ‘the  age of tolerance’, or what we cal1 ‘the brotherhood of mari’. We need to extend deep feelings of family to the  whole of humanity. Unless education in the twenty-first Century teaches us about living together strongly and  differently from the way it has taught us in the past, we Will repeat the frequent episodes of some human  behaviour, even during the post-Second World War era.
18.4 The tore relationship, Mr President, in any educational system is the symbiotic relationship between  the teacher and the student. With the flooding of information through new technology, the computer may  replace the teacher, but that would be a grave error and turn human beings into robots. It is imperative in the  designing of education in the twenty-first Century that the personal relationship between the teacher and the  student be retained to the optimum level, and that the classroom comradeship and exchange of views be
530    l/RT  promoted to the maximum extent. If we become computer robots, sans feeling, sans sympathy, sans love, sans  tolerance, this system Will never teach us how to live together. The family and the classroom are indispensable  for balanced human development. With families getting smaller and breaking down, we should not destroy the  classroom by means of a computer. Today we have infinite information, a compendium of knowledge which  has brought about remarkable material progress in a large number of countries; but the world as a whole cari  only be stable if this prosperity is shared by all through better education and living together. Thank you,  Mr President.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much for a very inspiring intervention. The next speaker is the representative of  China.
22.1 Mme D’AGOSTINO (Organisation mondiale pour l’éducation préscolaire) :  Je vous remercie, au nom de l’OMEP que je représente, de nous accorder ce temps de parole. Nous  approuvons entièrement les principes tant éducatifs qu’éthiques qui ont été dégagés, à savoir : favoriser  l’épanouissement et la créativité de chaque personne ; réaliser un bon équilibre entre la socialisation et le  développement personnel ; contribuer à la cohésion sociale ; promouvoir une culture de paix ; protéger  l’environnement ; veiller à l’égalité des chances. Nous souscrivons à l’intégration des notions de temps et  d’espace appliquées à l’éducation, à la notion de construction continue de la personne humaine et à celle de  village-planète.
22.2 Nous nous interrogeons quant à la mise en oeuvre de tous ces principes et il nous semble que l’on n’a  pas assez insisté sur l’importance de l’éducation préscolaire. Le goût d’apprendre tout au long de la vie  s’acquiert dès le plus jeune âge, et la famille tout autant que la communauté à cet égard joue un rôle primordial.
22.3 L’éducation préscolaire (non conçue comme un apprentissage précoce des disciplines formelles) et,  singulièrement, le jeu qui y occupe un espace important est un outil puissant - un pilier pour employer un des  mots que vous avez utilisés - pour la construction de la personne humaine, la socialisation, l’ouverture à la  tolérance et à un monde de paix, le développement de la créativité, la réussite scolaire, la prévention des  handicaps, l’éducation des parents (des femmes en particulier et des filles), le renforcement des liens familiaux,  l’égalité des chances, l’ouverture au monde dans tous ses aspects (apprentissage des langues, éveil aux  technologies nouvelles).
22.4 Apprendre à vivre ensemble ne s’apprend pas uniquement à travers les disciplines scolaires comme  l’histoire, la géographie, les langues étrangères mais dès le plus jeune âge dans la famille, au sein de la  communauté, avec les pairs, par l’intermédiaire du jeu, dans des interactions.
22.5 Vous avez dit, Monsieur Delors, lors de votre allocution du 30 octobre, que vous souligniez  l’importance de l’éducation préscolaire mais en “reconnaissant” que de nombreux pays n’ont pas les moyens d’y  consacrer toutes les ressources qu’elle exige. Etant donné l’intérêt de cette période de la vie pour le  développement, l’apprentissage et l’épanouissement de l’être humain, ne doit-on pas se donner les moyens, dans  tous les pays, de conférer à l’éducation préscolaire, formelle et informelle, la place essentielle qui lui revient ?  De nombreuses initiatives d’éducation préscolaire ont vu le jour au moment de l’Année internationale de  l’enfant en 1979, notamment en Afrique. Beaucoup d’entre elles ont été interrompues, faute de moyens ; elles  n’étaient pas un luxe, mais elles ont été sacrifiées au nom de la récession économique. Il faut certes faire des  choix, mais si l’on veut lutter contre une éducation à plusieurs vitesses au sein du “village-planète”, promouvoir  réellement l’égalité des chances à cette échelle, il faut donner aux pays les moyens de mettre en oeuvre ce qui  est réellement important, et c’est le cas de l’éducation de la petite enfance, atm de permettre à tous les êtres  humains de s’accomplir pleinement tout au long de leur vie (depuis la naissance et à tous les âges) et de vivre  avec leur temps. Je vous remercie.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker is the representative of Australia.
24.1 Mr JONES (Australia):  Mr President, in the spirit of your invitation to engage in dialogue, 1 have decided to abandon my  prepared text with its inner coherence, although copies are available if anyone wants to have it. It is rather a  pity that Mr Delors Will only respond at the end, because 1 wanted to ask successively four questions about what  seem to me to be gaps in the report, given of course that we only have the synthesis and that the answer to every  issue that 1 raise may in fact be covered with abundant detail.
24.2 The lïrst point 1 wanted to make is that 1 am not sure - judging from the synthesis - that education  and/or learning are fully delïned, while there has been a disturbing repetition, tïrst in the text of the document  but also in the comments, of the notion that education is something that happens in a school, that education is  something that happens in a classroom, that it is institutionalized. The last speaker even suggested that  children first begin to learn about the world when they go to kindergarten or pre-school.
24.3 Now, that is simply not correct. When you, Mr Delors, were at school - and 1 hasten to add that this is  true of myself as well - probably 40 or 50 per cent of what we learned about the world came directly from  school, together with a very high proportion directly from books and perhaps a lot from home, from church, or  from some institution like that. Nowadays, 1 would suspect the impact on individual children to be such that the  total proportion of knowledge that cornes from school amounts to 15 or 20 per cent - something like that - and 1
533    do not detect in the document as 1 have seen it any recognition or acknowledgement of, or coming to terms  with, the relationship of education to the mass media, to mass communications. TO take up the point made by  the representative of Kenya, a Child might very well pick up its first impressions of Africa, via the media, at 3  or 4 years of age, but might go right through primary school without ever doing a forma1 course about Africa.  The problem for formal education is that it is often quite du11 and stereotyped, and has to compete with a means  of transfer of information which is much more dynamic, much more exciting and much more challenging: the  unsurprising result is that it seems to be contracting in importance. 1 do not detect hem the synthesis that this  issue has been very carefully addressed. The point was raised, and in a somewhat similar way, by my colleagues  from Brazil and India.
24.4 The second point, and 1 must choose my words here with my characteristic tact, is that we must be  very careful not to assume that education is or cari be a universal panacea. Setting aside the problems of the  underdeveloped South, you have to say that a country like Germany in the 1920s and 1930s was one of the  world’s best educated countries, and yet it would be fair to say that a few things went wrong. If you look at  current situations in places like Israel or - to take a segment of a country - California, you could say that they  are both characterized by extraordinarily highly educated communities, but with degrees of fanaticism and  alienation and fundamentalism and the like. SO 1 think we need to avoid thinking of education as a universal  panacea.
24.5 The third point, which 1 think is implicit in what the Commission is saying but not absolutely explicit,  is related to the phenomenon - principally in the developed North - that we are living longer, far longer, but are  very likely to be working less. SO, if the abject of education is to train people for work, to train them as citizens  and perhaps even as members of families, the situation may well be completely different when people leave  work at the age of 55 and then perhaps live on for another 30,35 or even 40 years: is the mode1 of education  that they were exposed to in a formal sense, 60 or 70 years earlier, going to be of very much relevance to them  then? In other words, how relevant is what we sometimes cal1 the ‘lifeboat’ mode1 of education, the idea that  you receive a ration of education in the lifeboat and hope that it Will take you wherever you wanted to go?
24.6 Concerning the startling increase in longevity, an Australian social scientist has argued that since the  year 1800 there has been a remarkable consistency in the number of hours worked in a lifetime. He claims that  in 1800 in Europe the total number of hours worked in a lifetime was about 80,000, and that the figure today is  much the same; but that people are now living and working in a different way. Once they worked very hard, but  only for a comparatively short period because they died. Now, they are working for a much shorter period and it  adds up to the same number of hours, more or less, but they are living very much longer. This leads me to the  question of the importance of imputing value to our own use of time, which is extraordinarily difficult to do.  Traditionally, this value is always imputed by somebody else, by somebody who puts their hand on your  shoulder and says, ‘1 want you and 1 am prepared to confer such-and-such a value on your time’. We find it very  diffïcult to impute that value to ourselves. My question is, when you increasingly fïnd people saying things like,  ‘Here 1 am, 1 am designed to work in a factory until the age of 55, and then 1 face another 40 years with my  family dispersed or my parmer gone . ..‘. what role cari education have in the broader sense of helping them to  redefine their time. Now, there is implicit reference to this, perhaps, on page 8 of the synthesis but 1 do not see  very much, and yet it seems to me that the whole question of time-budgeting and the self-management of time  is tremendously important.
24.7 The final issue that 1 wanted to raise, which does not seem to feature in the synthesis, relates to the  simple recognition of the fact - it seems to me - that one of the great challenges for formal education is the  absolutely exponential increase in the knowledge base. If the sheer corpus of knowledge is doubling, as some  would argue, every 30 or 40 years, then how cari a school system, even with the use of computers really catch  up with it? Are we going to be reduced to having simply a smorg&bord - a smattering of various subjects, a few  hours a week on chemistry, a few hours a week on mathematics, a couple of hours on history, a couple of hours  on language, SO that you cari say, ‘Weil, 1 have made some sort of contact with an extraordinary range of  intellectual experience, but it is comparatively minor and at a very superfïcial level’. You have to understand,  Mr President, coming as you do Erom the great country of the smOrg&bord - perhaps its only contribution to  cuisine - that my reference contained not the slightest hint of criticism! Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Jones. 1 shall not corne back about the smmghbord and Danish cuisine! But your  remark that the fïrst impression of Africa for small children may well corne from television reminded me of an  interesting piece of information some years back - a research study in Germany which showed that two thirds of  German children below a certain age were under the impression that children in Afiica spoke German, because
534  -   __    l/RT  German television is dubbed. That state of affairs emphasizes the importance of families and schools: in this  case it is up to them to explain that African children do not speak German, but other languages.
26. Mr JONES (Australia):  Of course, they speak one of UNESCO’s offïcial languages!
27. The PRESIDENT:  Next on the list is the representative of the International Association for the Child’s Right to Play.
28.1 Mme TANON (Association internationale pour le droit au jeu de l’enfant) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, de donner la parole aux ONG dans ce débat et je vous prie de  m’excuser car mon exposé trouverait mieux sa place dans le cadre de la deuxième partie que vous avez  mentionnée au tout début de la séance. J’interviendrai néanmoins maintenant puisque c’est l’ordre d’inscription  qui prime.
28.2 Notre ONG souscrit entièrement aux préoccupations soulignées dans le rapport de la Commission  internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle, à savoir une éducation continue tout au long de la vie avec  ses quatre principes dont les deux derniers, apprendre à vivre ensemble et apprendre à être. Le jeu, faisant  partie intégrante de tout processus éducatif, permet à l’enfant de s’approprier des savoirs, de construire ses  représentations du monde, de lui-même et des autres, de développer ses capacités de création et d’exercer ses  compétences sociales.
28.3 Si le but de l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle est de former un citoyen actif dans les différentes instances  de la vie collective et donc, pour cela, de centrer les politiques éducatives sur la personne de l’apprenant et les  relations intergroupes, il nous semble alors que le jeu comme espace éducatif privilégié a toute sa place et un  rôle essentiel à assurer. C’est notamment à travers des activités de jeu que l’enfant et le jeune apprennent à  negocier les relations entre l’individuel et le général, entre le court terme et le long terme, entre un heritage  culturel spécifique et un monde futur ouvert et “globalisé”.
28.4 Par ailleurs, dans le village planétaire, une notion nous apparaît primordiale pour apprendre à vivre  ensemble, pour assurer cette cohesion sociale dont nous avons tous besoin et qui semble manquer si  cruellement : c’est celle de tolérance. C’est une notion qui s’apprend, qui se construit progressivement chez  l’individu et une éducation pour la tolérance doit commencer tôt chez l’enfant, dès l’âge du préscolaire. Cette  démarche, qui permet de comprendre l’autre dans sa différence et sa diversité culturelle, est transversale et  s’inscrit dans un processus réflexif tout au long de la vie. Une annee internationale de la tolerance, c’est bien ;  en faire un thème de réflexion intégré dans l’éducation de l’homme du XXIe siècle, c’est mieux. C’est sur ce  point que je terminerai, par souci de concision, en insistant pour que cet aspect vital de la personnalité du  citoyen du XXIe siècle soit pris en compte dans les politiques éducatives qui seront établies dans un proche  avenir et ce, à tous les niveaux de cette éducation pour la vie. Je vous remercie.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the representative of Spain.
(30.1) Mr MENENDEZ PIDAL (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  In my opinion, the report that Mr Delors has presented to us is a Splendid preview of what the  Commission’s report Will eventually be. In this connection, 1 should like to refer basically to what 1 see as being  the central focus, namely the idea of education as a process continuing a11 through life.
(30.2) We cari no longer speak of education as taking place by stages. Education embraces the whole of life. In  my opinion, education has to be integrating and integral. By that, 1 mean education as envisaged in educational  policies in which equality of access, equality of attendance and equality of outcome are guaranteed for a11 the  population. 1 have in mind educational policies that Will take into account the acquisition of knowledge, making it  possible to acquire the skills needed to do a useful job, for everyday life and for participation as citizens; that Will  take into account the need to revise traditional educational models, chiefly for vocational training, and also  mutual recognition of, and respect for, cultural diversity; that Will foster education for values in democracy and  solidarity, the active participation of society in a11 political spheres, and the integration into the world of work and  social life of existing human resources through new and flexible employment policies and the development of  working capacities; that Will encourage stimulation, creativity and acquisitive capacity from earliest infancy,  strengthening the linkage between education and science and using the most modern means offered by the new  technologies; and, lastly, that Will encourage the training and further training of teachers.
(30.3) 1 venture to recall that this concept of education has just been substantially strengthened by a vision of  what education for the twenty-first Century could be, provided by twenty-one heads of Iberoamerican States and  governments who met in San Carlos de Bariloche from 17 to 19 October to discuss education and education alone.  The outcome of this meeting was their joint definition of education, and 1 quote, as ‘a process of transmission of  knowledge and affirmation of values which favour harmonious coexistence, responsibility, tolerance, solidarity  and justice, promoting the training of individuals who are caring in the social sphere, participatory and tolerant in  the political sphere, productive in the economic sphere, respectful of human rights and aware of the value of  nature’. 1 think that this cari stand as a credo for the whole educational process.
(30.4) Referring to what Mr Delors mentioned as being one of the central problems, that of social cohesion and  its relationship to education, you know, Mr President, that my country’s National Commission last year organized  a seminar in which an attempt was made to determine what is or what might be the relationship between social  cohesion and education. The outcome of the seminar was, 1 would say, partly positive and partly rather negative,  since we were not able to reach agreement on what social cohesion might be or was. However, we agreed that
536    l/RT  social cohesion is something desirable, something to which we have to aspire, a project that has to be continued  through the course of time, that is historical and in which a11 must be involved. It is obvious that schooling cari  contribute to this process of social cohesion, but it is also no less obvious that, in some cases, schooling creates  situations where there is a lack of social cohesion.
(30.5) Lastly, Mr President, 1 believe that we have a heavy responsibility and we cannot hand it over entirely to  schools. The school has its limits, its own limitations. Above all, it is perhaps the most conservative institution in  the world, with staff that have always been in the vanguard of ideas, and in spite of what we have wanted to  achieve in recent years, in recent centuries, the school continues to be essentially a centre for the transmission of  knowledge. Until we succeed, by joining forces, in changing this concept of the school in a spirit of solidarity,  nothing we do Will have much relevance. Thank you.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 shall immediately give the floor to the representative of Jordan. Even though  SO far we have proceeded rather smoothly, 1 have to tel1 you that we still have 21 speakers, as well as those who  have asked to take the floor a second time, SO 1 appeal to you to be brief and concise, SO that we may finish in  due time and also - to be quite frank - out of politeness to Mr Delors. Besides, we cannot sit here half the night.  A few minutes ago, we heard about the child’s right to play: 1 think that adults deserve a little rest and  recreation, too!
32.1 Mr HAMDANE (Jordan):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of the Jordanian  delegation to this timely round-table debate on educational challenges in the twenty-lïrst Century Will  concentrate on the introduction and use of modern multimedia technologies in education with a quick reference  to some serious other social and ethical challenges.
32.2 Developing countries Will be facing a serious problem in keeping up with the speed at which these  technologies are being developed. Hence, it is expected that the educational gap between developing and  developed countries Will become considerably wider. The effect of this factor Will be more felt, or Will become  even more dramatic, when we speak of lifelong education based on the modern educational technologies of  distance leaming. One of the pressing problems to be tackled in this respect is teacher training. We should first  delineate the desired characteristics of the teacher we need for the twenty-first Century and then devise teacher-  training curricula or programmes for the preparation of effective teachers. One of the requirements is that we  should train teachers to acquire advanced skills in modern technologies of education. The present format of  library use and reference Will be drastically different; hence teachers for the twenty-first Century must be well  versed in up-to-date computer methods of storage and retrieval of information.
32.3 Finally, education and curricula for the twenty-first Century should be designed SO as to address some  of the economic, social, human and ethical challenges facing the younger generation. In brief, and to mention  only a few such challenges, one could list ethnie conflicts, pollution, drugs, AIDS, terrorism and the respect for  human life, street children, etc. Education planners are called upon to design curricula directly for bringing up  a generation with a deep understanding of these and other serious problems. Such understanding is essential for  the younger generation to acquire the culture of peace with proper sociological and ethical behaviour, and  hence practices, to deal with these problems. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT:  The next speaker is the representative of Malaysia.
34.1 Mr IDID (Malaysia):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we Will soon be departing the twentieth  Century. As we move towards the next Century, the Delors report on education could not have corne at a more  appropriate time. The challenges and complexities are too great for us to deny. Yet we have to move forward  with our planning for our society, for our economy and, in addition, to give us direction and stability in  planning what we should do in education.
34.2 Mr President, we subscribe to the concept of lifelong education. We believe that lifelong education is  an investment that Will provide us with returns in the long run. We take note of the four pillais in the Delors  report, namely, learning to be, learning to know, learning to do, and very important to us, in a plural society,  learning tu live together. The four pillars constitute essentially an integrated approach to education; a very  sound and very pragmatic approach indeed. Education cari be planned, must be planned, in a given social and  political context.
34.3 In Malaysia our mission by the year 2020 is to be a developed country, to be an industrialized society,  but also to be a caring society. A society that cares for its elderly, a society that cares for its children and cares  for its youth. With that mission by the year 2020 all resources, all planning in terms of education must be  geared or has been planned to be geared to enable us to achieve that given objective. Hence the four pillars of  education, to be, to know, to do and to live together, Will be very appropriate and very pragmatic indeed. TO be  and to do are the requirements of skills needed to enable us to be an industrialized society, to attain developed  status by the year 2020. Of particular importance, Mr President, is learning to live together. In a society where  we have many cultures and many religions, to live together is very important to us. Since we achieved  independence in 1957, the whole concept of education has been to enable Malaysians to live together. And on  the basis of that planning, as we move towards the year 2020, learning to live together Will be very important  for us. Thank you.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 give the floor to the representative of Croatia.
36.1 MS MATKOVIC (Croatia):  Mr President, distinguished colleagues, 1 think that we all agree with the statement issued in the paper  that human progress depends, among other things, on education. Within the context of human progress  education for responsible citizenship, we believe, should be made one of the priorities in education for the  twenty-lïrst Century. First of ah, we think it means that starting from early childhood development, we should  teach our children mechanisms for perceiving both themselves and others around them. SO, from the very  beginning and by leaming to learn, our future responsible citizens must be able to define the problems as they  arise and, when disputes occur, be able to overcome them in a peaceful way.
36.2 We who are educators must make people realize that it is worth fighting for their own rights but only,  of course, in SO far as this does not mean violating the rights of others. Only those people who teach know how  difficult it cari be for the teachers to remain really convincing in the eyes of the learners when teaching about  the necessity of becoming responsible citizens of the world, because both the world and its citizens have SO  often proved to be irresponsible and hypocritical. Indeed, have we not all seen SO manyfuux pus, SO-many  globally wrong decisions and actions that have not been punished or even condemned, at least not in time.
36.3 1 say this not to suggest giving up; on the contrary, 1 have addressed the issue of education for  responsible citizenship to remind you that if we really want a contribution from education in improving the  world in the twenty-fïrst Century, we must look for enhancement in the field of education for responsible  citizenship. Thank you.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 give the floor to the representative of the World Leisure and Recreation  Association.
38.1 MS QUIJANO-CABALLERO (World Leisure and Recreation Association):  Mr President, thank you for allowing me as the representative of a non-governmental organization to  take the floor. The World Leisure and Recreation Association applauds the work of the International  Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century and looks forward to the publication of the final report.
38.2 We appreciate that at last attention is being paid to the rational use of time, that there is recognition  that changes in the organization of life - education, work, retirement - are inevitable and that more attention  must be paid to the aspect of free time, whether this is the extensive free time of children and youth, time  available after work or the imposed free time of the unemployed, the disabled, the retired or even the  imprisoned. Whatever form it takes, we could say that free time is one of the least exploited resources which  although ‘free’, is paradoxically, if misused, of increasing cost to society, and this certainly makes it a challenge  for the twenty-first Century.
38.3 As the Commission has SO aptly pointed out, while new technologies Will facilitate sharing of  knowledge and provide opportunities for lifelong education and non-foi-mal education, the same electronic  media Will have major social impacts that are both positive and negative, particularly on fiee time and on  leisure activities.
38.4 The World Leisure and Recreation Association would like to support the proposal for the  establishment of an observatory to review the impact of new technologies on societies and on educational
538    l/RT  methods and processes. In order to meet a11 of these challenges of increasing hee time, and in view of the need  to stress the persona1 benefits of leisure in improving the quality of life, my organization has recently developed  an International Charter for Leisure Education.
38.5 This Charter is intended to provide guidance to agents of education - including schools, the  community and institutions, involved in the training of personnel - on the principles upon which to develop  leisure education policies and strategies while at the same time, as the distinguished delegate from Australia  has mentioned, promoting innovative education which encourages individuals to develop their creative  potential and in which education for free time is an essential component of education for life. Thank you,  Mr President. 1 do hope that you Will have some leisure and recreation.
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, and thank you for your rational use of time. The next speaker is the representative of  France.
40.1 M. VINCIGUERRA (France) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais remercier M. Delors d’avoir accepté ce dialogue  qui nous situe hors des exercices administratifs ou bureaucratiques plus traditionnels. Comme le disait un Grec  du IVe siècle “être homme c’est savoir converser, dialoguer avec les hommes”. C’est donc dans cet esprit que je  m’exprimerai, au nom de ma délégation, mais peut-être aussi de façon plus libre, si vous le permettez, puisque  notre débat est libre et ouvert.
40.2 Ce qui m’a paru intéressant dans les réflexions de la Commission internationale sur l’éducation, c’est  d’abord, et je voudrais insister sur ce point, que la méthode qui nous est proposée pour aborder les enjeux et les  défis du XXIe siècle, c’est-à-dire d’un avenir comme le disait Valéry, qui n’est plus ce qu’il était, car il faut  intégrer de plus en plus, et à quelle vitesse, l’imprévisible et l’aléatoire, cette méthode, donc, ne releve pas, me  semble-t-il, du dogmatique. 11 est des civilisations qui ont autrefois recouru à la dialectique, à diverses formes  de dialectiques. Celle dont il est ici question est une façon d’enregistrer les besoins, les attentes et les difficultés  de notre civilisation en crise qui se manifestent de façon contradictoire. Il s’agit donc de gérer ces  contradictions, M. Delors emploie le mot “surmonter” qui pourrait laisser croire que l’un des termes de ces  oppositions ou contradictions peut être effacé. Je pense que surmonter les tensions signifie aussi trouver des  équilibres. M. Delors cite quatre exemples d’oppositions, il y en a bien d’autres, dans tous les champs du  politique, de l’économique, de l’administratif et du pédagogique. J’en citerai quelques-uns, il y a bien sûr, le  singulier et l’universel, le traditionnel et le moderne, mais on pourrait aussi parler de l’absolu et du relatif, du  rationnel et de l’irrationnel, du spirituel, comme le fait M. Delors, et du matériel, du global et du local, de l’être  et du devenir, des valeurs et de la rentabilité, de l’individu et de la masse, de la qualité et de la quantité, du  national et du régional, du national et de l’international, et aussi des finalités et des objectifs.
40.3 Je m’attarderai sur deux de ces oppositions qui feront l’objet de mes questions. J’opposerai d’abord la  fonction de maturation au statut de maturité, ce qui n’est pas la même chose, puis le temps à la durée et enfin,  peut-être, ce qui me paraît capital, le réel au virtuel. Le temps et la durée doivent être considérés, bien sûr, dans  la perspective qui est celle de la Commission de M. Delors, c’est-à-dire des quatre piliers - le mot me paraît fort  mais bien venu - cités dans le rapport, mais aussi ne l’oublions pas, comme l’a souligné la déléguée de la  Thaïlande que nous avons écoutée avec attention, en fonction de leur appréhension par les différentes  civilisations. L’UNESCO a d’ailleurs réalisé jadis une étude tout à fait remarquable présentant une réflexion de  philosophe sur le temps et les civilisations, car les pays ont, en fonction de leur religion et de leur civilisation,  des façons différentes d’aborder le temps qui, malheureusement ou heureusement, finissent par converger.  M. Delors évoque le bon usage du temps que l’on a trop oublié dans notre réflexion. L’école l’oublie aussi car, et  je me référerai à cet égard à la lecture, il y a deux façons de lire dans le temps et dans la durée, ce qui n’est pas  la même chose. Or la fonction de maturation qui s’exerce dans la durée et qui était liée à la lecture, puisque  autrefois on visait à former un homme accompli, a disparu à l’ère de la relativité où tout est constamment remis  en question. Comment l’école, comment la société éducative doit-elle donc favoriser cette maturation, c’est-à-  dire faire acquérir à l’homme le sens de la durée, quand il est jeté dans un temps emballé.
40.4 De même, Monsieur Delors, vous faites allusion à ce monde virtuel qui se crée de façon accélérée je  dirais même vertigineuse et avec lequel, avez-vous dit, nous devons compter pour le meilleur et pour le pire.  Comment la société éducative de demain formera-t-elle ses maîtres qui seront des maîtres de vie ? Nous  sommes face à une question que je qualifierai de shakespearienne, être dans la réalité, mais quelle réalité, ou ne  pas être dans ce monde du virtuel qui nous envahit, dans l’irréalité du virtuel. Vers quelle réalité du monde et  de la personne tendons-nous ? Car on parle beaucoup du vivre ensemble, mais si l’on est pas une personne
539    comment peut-on apprendre vraiment à vivre ensemble ? Et comment donc l’école s’efforcera-t-elle de tendre  vers une réalité qui est celle de la personne et des sociétés humaines ? Merci.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the representative of Germany.
42.1 Mr DERIX (Germany):  Having read the preliminary synthesis of the report and listened to Mr Delors’s additional  explanations, Germany is looking forward to receiving the complete version with even greater interest. We  consider this round table to be a preliminary discussion and we are very grateful for it.
42.2 The report analyses the main requirements of society, economy and politics concerning educational  reform both in Member States and globally. However, we are also asking ourselves whether the report Will lay  suftïcient emphasis on the specitïc problems and needs of developing countries, as mentioned by Kenya and  some other countries. We welcome the growing interdependence among people within the global village.
42.3 The report pays particular attention to the focal issues of internationalization of education, the  increasing use of innovative technologies, ensuring key qualifications and the crucial relevance of intercultural  learning. We express our full agreement with the fundamental thesis that educational reform must be discussed  at all levels of society in order to create a consciousness of common responsibility for necessary reforms.
42.4 Brazil and the World Leisure and Recreation Association mentioned the question of free time. This is  a question which we also consider very important. Many of the hostile acts we see today probably corne about  because people, especially perhaps Young people, have nothing to do, in every sense of that phrase. Teaching  and motivating people to spend their time usefully, in employment when unemployed and also in their leisure  time, to be useful to themselves and to others is therefore one of the most valuable objectives of education. We  would like the report to provide some guidance on this question.
42.5 Mr President, Thailand, Pakistan and other countries made some comments, particularly on the four  pillars of lifelong learning and we would wish to offer the following preliminary comments: the chapter on  basic education rightly emphasizes the importance of awakening self-reliance and motivation for leaming. We  hope that this topic Will be dealt with more intensely in the report and that it Will be discussed in a more  practical way. The proposa1 to increase co-operation between schools and the world of work in secondary  education is highly appreciated, as is also the proposa1 to combine a high level of academic knowledge and  career development tailored to the needs of the economy as an additional task of the university.
42.6 In conclusion, Mr President, we endorse, in particular, the view that education is a public good and  should be made available to all people. In view of political, financial and legal concerns, we wonder, however,  whether the provision of educational vouchers for a11 is a realistic approach. We thank the Chairman and  members of the Commission for the report and we are convinced that it Will stimulate a lively and fruitful  discussion in Germany and Will continue to be discussed within UNESCO. Thank you very much.
43. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Derix. The next speaker is the representative of the Netherlands,  to be followed by the representative of Egypt. During the intervention of the Netherlands 1 unfortunately have  to close the speakers’ list, because if 1 do not and you do not follow my recommendations to be brief, we Will not  be able to finish on time. SO the speakers’ list Will be closed during the intervention of the Netherlands. You  have the floor.
44.1 Mr DE VISSER (Netherlands):  Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, allow me to conclude from the report that the  Commission has SO far analysed very ambitiously both medium-term and long-term problems and approaches. 1  think that, on our side, we cari be very glad that the Commission has done SO. We are still in this Century and,  of course, the next Century Will begin only in five or six years. We hope, however, that in the final version of  the report, the two approaches, both the short- and medium-term, and the longer term cari perhaps be a bit  more clearly separated SO that some apparent contradictions as they appear now in the yellow booklet Will  disappear.
44.2 As a medium-term problem, Mr President, the Commission pinpoints the crisis of confidence between  teachers on the one hand, and their sponsors, usually govemments, on the other. Our country recently became  aware of the problem when it was highlighted by the independent national commission on the subject. The
540    l/RT  International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century proposes measures to restore not only the  material and professional conditions of teachers but also their moral authority in today’s society. A very  important point.
44.3 We are very interested in the operational solutions that the Commission Will offer here in the final  version of its report, both for mobilizing social support for education and for rehabilitation of the teaching  profession,
44.4 But the yellow booklet also provides us, as 1 said, with rich thoughts on the longer term problems. On  several points the Commission’s yellow booklet clearly indicates how global developments Will affect the  leaming process. Two of the trends mentioned, communication technology and multiculturalism, cari be  considered to boil down to a single major effect on the learning individual. India and Australia have already  referred to this. The individual is exposed to an ever greater diversity and complexity of impulses at an ever  earlier age. The traditional view of education assumes a gradua1 widening of the individual scope of  experiences, starting out with the family and ending up with internationalized universities for those who learn  long enough. In a multicultural global village characterized by mass media, migration of both ideas and  persons, intemationalization starts in every home when the screen is switched on, and it goes on at the door  step when the neighbour walks by. It is this major shift that education in the next Century must accommodate  somehow.
44.5 This may lead to a reversa1 of the flows of expertise in the world. Many industrialized countries  shielded in uniform nation-States Will have to learn from countries where multiculturalism has been a  commonplace for centuries, like India. In many so-called developing countries on the other hand, people have  learned how to use their cultural identity as a back-bone instead of as armour. The ongoing war in Europe  shows what happens in a traditionally multicultural setting when one tries to tum back-bones into armours.
44.6 We are therefore extremely happy that the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-  First Century has captured the trend of globalization not only as a technological but also as a cultural  phenomenon. We are also glad that it endeavoured to indicate the long-term shifts in educational policies that  are needed to tope with it. Among the functions of learning we used to feature Zearning to be. We are now  perhaps emphasizing Zearning to do but before long, as Mr Delors has told us, we shall not be able to do  without learning to Zive together. We express our great interest in the Commissions analysis. We assume that  its possible consequences for educational policies Will receive full attention in the final version of the report and  we have the feeling that the possible role of early childhood education in fostering cultural back-bones, as  stressed by Mr Delors in his speech last week, could be emphasized perhaps somewhat more strongly than is  the case now in the yellow booklet. We very much welcome the intervention by the International Association  for Early Childhood Education on this point.
44.7 Mr President, the yellow booklet also shows that the growing diversity of impulses Will not only affect  learning children. Adults too Will live in a cognitive environment that is continually changing. In the  technological environment of the future, most individuals Will constantly need to develop new knowledge, new  capabilities, new qualifications.
44.8 The Commission clearly indicates the implications for long-term educational policy. Adults should all  continue to leam and society should be organized SO as to enable them to do SO. The Commission envisages a  world in which everyone takes turns in being teachers and learners. Thus, for the long term, the Commission  does not SO much favour rehabilitation of the teaching profession but rather rehabilitation of teaching itself. We  would like to encourage the Commission to work out the concept of a learning society, as mentioned in the  report, more fully in the final version.
44.9 We further note with appreciation that Mr Delors has analysed the traditional link between education  and the labour market in a more flexible way and in a larger context than is usually done. We also are greatly  interested in the details in the final report.
44.10 The Commission also sketches, Mr President, the consequences for initial education. On the one hand,  it should not be extended forever. The Commission signals what it calls a widespread all-or-nothing obsession  with access to higher education. This sensitive point receives our attention. Some experts consider that full-time  forma1 education is not the way for grown-ups to learn. In a world in which, due to the diversification of  impulses, mental adulthood Will be reached at an ever earlier age, extended forma1 initial education is not  unlikely to produce increasing numbers of drop-outs. On the other hand, the Commission insists that initial
541    education may never be an individual’s learning horizon. Schools should develop both the appetite for leaming  and the capacity to learn. We would like to encourage the Commission to work out the concept of leaming to  leam, as mentioned in the report more fully in the final draft.
44.11 It is obvious that, when conducting a policy which favours limitation of initial education and, at the  same time, develops an appetite for learning, additionaI policies are needed to prevent these goals from  conflicting. If greedy leamers do not have the guarantee that they cari take up leaming whenever they need to,  they Will continue to stay in initial education as long as they cari..
44.12 As a solution, the Commission proposed to work out systems of educational vouchers and educational  savings schemes. Even if some have doubts on the feasibility of such a system, and there are of course reasons  for doubts, our experts take great interest in the idea. We hope that it cari be further worked out in the final  report.
44.13 Last, but not least, Mr President, we would like to propose that one more question be dealt with in the  final report. The Commission is about to trigger a discussion on the future of the world’s education, and should  not UNESCO? role in education - UNESCO being finally the world’s most important educationaI  organization - be made the prime abject of this discussion itself? Thank you very much, Mr President.
45, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador. 1 now give the floor to therepresentative of Egypt. Once  again, 1 would like to appeal to the participants in this debate to try to limit their remarks to just a few minutes,  which would allow everybody to participate in the debate. You have the floor, Ambassador Tawfik.
(46.1) Mr TAWFIK (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 Will deal very briefly with a number of points of concern to me in general,  and more particularly after studying the report. Sometimes these points tend to the contents of the report, but at  other times they raise questions. First, with regard to globalization. Globalization, as 1 understand it, is another  form of plurality and diversity, which leads me to wonder how we may resolve the dichotomy between  globalization on the one hand and plurality and diversity on the other. How may we reconcile the practical  discrepancy between globalization and the existence of diverse environments with varying cultural, historical and  geographical backgrounds. How may we resolve the de facto dichotomy between the single, global nature of the  problem and the fact that the problem has various causes. Therein may lie the problem itself, which we consider  to be a global issue. However, in every society and in every environment, the solution to the problem cannot be  global, but must be subject to local, national and environmental circumstances. The main question now is how to  confront this globalization, which is a great blessing, but which may also turn out to be an even greater  misfortune. Globalization is a remedy for some illnesses, but it may also give rise to illness. It is a challenge  facing both humanity and educational organizations.
(46.2) Secondly, the benefïts of education. 1 am, of course, in favour of education and see it as a key to most of  the problems of humanity. But education must be linked to objectives. The Prophet Muhammad said to his  community fourteen centuries ago: ‘Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave’, which means that education  must be a lifelong process. He also said: ‘Seek knowledge, even in China’. In those days, of a11 the countries of the  known world China was the most distant from the Arabian Peninsula. The principle of lifelong education is  therefore an old one, but it must be more closely linked to life, and the focus in the concept of education must be  shifted from teaching to learning. There is a great difference between the two because in the first concept you are  administered a dose of education while in the second you teach yourself; in other words, you choose what you  want according to your practical, intellectual and emotional needs. The benefits of education must therefore be  aftïrmed through educational means. What 1 mean is that talking about the principle of lifelong education cannot  be a philosophical exercise, but must be a practical one.
(46.3) The third and final point concerns the quantity and quality of education. The questions here are: What to  teach or leam? How to teach or learn? Why teach or leam? How to use the resources? The problem of education  lies in the fact that we are dealing with a complex system in every society: local areas within countries, countries  within regions and finally the whole world. While the Earth revolves around the sun and around its own axis,  satellites orbit the Earth, broadcasting information, and a11 these things seem to be interconnected, but they are  not homogeneous, and indeed are occasionally contradictory.
(46.4) Mr President, we Will always be individuals, although we must go on understanding each other and  living together. Time Will always get the better of us, but we must live in our age and turn our imagination both  back to the past and forward to the future. Such are the conundrums that education must resolve. We must  preserve globalization as a means of integration and not simply as an objective for the future. The survival of  humanity and the human heritage depends on plurality and diversity. We must therefore imbue education with a  new spirit SO that education may grant us new life. Thank you.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ambassador Tawfik. The next speaker is the representative of Colombia.
(48.1) MS VARGAS de AVELLA (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Colombia wishes to share in the reaffirmation of the ethical mission of  UNESCO, We consider it essential to prepare for this mission of educational development with a view to the  twenty-first Century.
(48.2) However, in our country there are millions of people to whom the benefits of a basic education, meeting  at least the needs of human survival, are not accessible. In the past decade we have undertaken two major  campaigns on ‘Education, Science and Development’ which have left us in no doubt of the efforts that have to be  made if we are not to continue lagging behind the major advances being made by humanity. The results of these  campaigns lead us to concur fully with the forward-looking vision presented in the document, essentially in its  recognition of the fact that education is a process continuing throughout life and a commitment that has to be  made by the whole of scciety.
(48.3) However, the need to mobilize political leaders in this direction could have been made more explicit. It  must be stated more clearly that education depends on the political Will of governments and that it is governments  that bear the responsibility for applying educational strategies that give impetus to economic and social  development. The transformation of education Will be effected only through government policies for the long  term, with guaranteed programme and financial continuity. We propose that the concept of education as a public  service be re-evaluated, because we cannot allow the idea that public education is a ‘second-class education’ for  ‘second-class citizens’, who are always the poor, to become progressively more entrenched.
(48.4) It is imperative to seek an identity for public education that commits it to society and the system of  production and enables it to enhance its future role, since this is the only way of guaranteeing access for people  who have been left on the sidelines and are excluded from any form of education. This is the only way of saying  that we cari join or line up with those of us who aspire to sec education as being for the whole of life, as being a  constant process. At the moment, our country is proposing for the first time the development of a ten-year plan for  education involving the open participation of a11 citizens. We hope that this initiative Will corne up with  alternative approaches to public education which Will make it possible to transcend government contingencies and  pave the way for education as a policy of the State, as a permanent process, a process covering the whole of  people’s lives. Thank you.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next intervention is from Bulgaria.
50.1 MS SAVOVA (Bulgaria):  Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-  First Century has done excellent work. Allow me to start my presentation with a myth: there was, and there still  is, a myth about schools and teachers: they should provide Young people with all the necessary knowledge,  skills and SO forth for their future professional life. In order to prove that this myth is still alive, 1 would like to
544    l/RT  give the following well-known example. Schools and teachers are often blamed for the insufficient preparation  of youth for the world of work. In other words, schools and teachers are blamed for unemployment. The whole  truth is different and this has been clearly pointed out in Mr Delors’s report.
50.2 When 1 say ‘schools’, 1 am not saying ‘education’, because the school is a place where formal education  takes place. But when 1 talk about education 1 mean the broader term, not only the school. If we agree that  education is a vision of the future, and if we agree that this vision cannot remain static, then it is easier to corne  to the idea of learning throughout life, throughout society. In fact, we need to talk in favour of so-called social  leaming, which is an element of socialization.
50.3 The concept of leaming throughout society Will have important implications for teacher training.  Many previous speakers have referred to this. It Will make the teacher’s role even more delicate and  complicated. This concept Will also affect educational policies and have major consequences.
50.4 1 would say that the concept of leaming throughout life Will also affect students’ learning. In order to  keep up to date, students should be prepared to leam throughout their lives. SO, in my opinion, the main ideas  which are included in this report are worth while. Thank you.
51. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker is the representative of Saudi Arabia.
(52.1) Mr ALRASHEED (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President, 1 should like tïrst of a11 to congratulate Mr Jacques Delors and the  Commission for this excellent report, and to say that we are looking forward to the full version thereof. 1 hope that  the full version Will include practical and realistic recommendations because there are many issues which  theorists find easy to talk about, but which are difficult to put into practice. 1 should like the recommendations to  be practical and capable of implementation and to address real issues in a11 countries and not just in those  countries that are more fortunate than others.
(52.2) Secondly, Mr President, 1 should like to ask about financial matters in terms of what the industrial  countries cari offer the developing countries and even what the industrial countries cari offer the least developed  countries without imposing upon them any values which have no relevance for them. The developing and the least  developed countries have many problems, from population growth to differences in approach and attitudes.
(52.3) Thirdly, Mr President, 1 should like to say that education in its narrow sense, as dealt with in this report,  means teaching, academic institutions and schools, although we know that from childhood to the age of 20  individuals spend no more than 14 per cent of their time at most in educational institutions, while 86 per cent of  their time is spent outside school, at home or in society. 1 should like to mention here the communications media,  or what individuals watch on television and the other media. What cari we do to integrate what is offered by the  media with what happens at school? How cari we harmonize the communications media with what goes on in  educational institutions?
(52.4) Another thing, Mr President: What of UNESCO? What is its role in a11 of this, particularly with regard  to achieving the four pillars, and especially, in terms of learning how to live with one another. How to cultivate  tolerance? How to understand one another? How to appreciate divergent views? How to value the environment  and preserve it? These are a11 questions that need practical and realistic solutions. 1 should like now to reiterate  the cal1 for attention to be devoted to the economically less fortunate countries SO that the desiderata of this report  may be achieved for them.
(52.5) 1 conclude by saying that 1 am happy to belong to a religion, a civilization and a set of values that began  teacbing with the first revelation sent down from Heaven, a religion that encourages learning and sees it as the  first step on the road to civilization and development. 1 will not reiterate what Ambassador Mohsen Tawfik has  said on this subject, although it is well worth bearing in mind. Thank you, Mr President.
53. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The next speaker is the representative of the International Humanist and Ethical Union.
54. M. PECKER (Union humaniste et éthique internationale) :  Je tiens a vous jeter d’emblée une grande brassée de fleurs, à vous Monsieur Delors, comme aux  membres de la Commission. Je le fais très vite, puisqu’il s’agit d’un débat, et j’en viens à mon seul et unique  sujet. L’Union humaniste et éthique internationale, dont la philosophie est universaliste, est bien évidemment  sensible et favorable à l’entreprise très difficile de globalisation qu’implique votre point de vue sur l’éducation.  Dans cet esprit - et je compléterai en cela l’intervention notamment de l’honorable délégué du Tchad -je  souhaiterais poser le problème, essentiel à mes yeux, de la formation des maîtres qui est évoqué à la page 14 de  la version française du rapport. Le monde change très vite, il change de plus en plus vite, et à cet égard, je  rejoins la dernière observation de notre collègue Jones et de I’Ambassadeur des Pays-Bas. Tel maître peut être  bon a 20 ans, encore assez bon à 30, médiocre à 35, mauvais à 37. Ne vous semble-t-il donc pas que ce domaine  est tellement essentiel qu’il est nécessaire de prévoir à tous les niveaux une formation permanente des maîtres,  formation reconnue dans leur carrière, bien évidemment, et pas seulement la formation permanente des jeunes  élèves devenus moins jeunes ? Et ne vous semble-t-il pas que cette formation permanente des maîtres doit  impliquer des voyages, des échanges, donc un financement national et, naturellement, international. Je vous  remercie à l’avance de votre réponse et je vous remercie de votre attention.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the representative of Turkey.
56.1 Mr BURSALIOGLU (Turkey):  TO begin with, we would like to congratulate Mr Delors on his elaborate and comprehensive  document. First of ail, if a sequence is envisaged in terms of the four main pillars - learning to know, to do, to  be and to Zive together, this is different in the preamble t?om what we find in the following explanatory pages.  For instance, such talents as communication, attitude and group leadership should precede the talent of  learning to live together.
56.2 Secondly, such objectives as the enablement of every individual to develop his or her abilities to the  utmost, or the broadening of the spectrum of educational opportunity, are rather the conventional aims of the  education process.
56.3 Thirdly, the statement whereby it is teachers who play the crucial, central role in maintaining the  vigour or the system implies that the proposed system Will continue to function according to the basic concepts  and principles of educational psychology, regardless of the educational administration.
56.4 ‘Three main factors’ are deemed to contribute to educational reforms. The first is mentioned as being  the local community, but we do not fïnd the second or the third in what follows. My simple question is, what  are they?
56.5 Frustration caused by diversitïcation in secondary education is very judiciously emphasized. Car-e  should be taken to ensure that such diversification is not detrimental to the maintenance of common national  values and behaviour. Equally, the greater university autonomy envisaged by the Commission is imperative if  the university is to fulfil the innovative functions expected of it.
56.6 Lastly, the basic views of the report - optimism and voluntarism - incite and motivate us to look  hopefully towards the educational future.
57. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now 1 give the floor to the representative of Uruguay.
(58.1) Mr AMIR (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Before a11 else, 1 wish, on behalf of my country’s government, to thank the  Commission for its work. We cannot conceal the impatience with which we await the final report, since this  preliminary outline heralds a study brimming with ideas.
(58.2) Education has once again corne to be the focal preoccupation of men and women alike. This, in our  opinion, has enabled it to recover its creative and liberating force. The report concentrates its main impact on the  four principles set out in its second part, which it calls the four main pillars of human learning. In connection with  the French text, 1 should like to make it clear that in French ‘apprendre à connaître’, would be translated word-for-  word into Spanish by ‘a conocer’ and that ‘learning to know’ is to some extent different from ‘learning to learn’.  However that may be, we support the four ‘pillars’ that are cited as basic principles. Attaining this goal Will not be  easy in the short term or with few resources, but, more importantly, a reform of education approached in this way  Will not only be the work of the educational authorities or even only of teachers. Such a reform Will be designed  and put into action with the involvement and commitment of the whole of society. For this reason a democratic  approach to education needs to be adopted in classrooms, educational centres and the community at large.
(58.3) We are a11 affected by the shock waves of the scient& and technical revolution, which has made  possible an exponential expansion of knowledge. The speed of this expansion compels us to review the process  whereby we teach people how to learn. This is, firstly, because nobody cari now master a11 existing knowledge,  not even on a single subject, and, secondly, because the accelerated pace at which knowledge is generated very  frequently relativizes what was hitherto regarded as correct or makes it obsolete.
(58.4) It is possible that much of the ineffectiveness of present-day education is due to the fact that it is  continuing to be chiefly devoted to the transmission of knowledge. We therefore feel that our most important,  indeed our main, task should be to endeavour to enable people to gain access to knowledge by themselves,  thereby making it possible for them to develop their potential to the full. This entails learning, but is also part of  learning to be. The speed with which new knowledge is generated, relativizing or challenging other knowledge,  also causes greater uncertainty and the decline of absolutes. Education today and education in the twenty-first  Century means and Will mean educating to take action against a background of uncertainty and learning to manage  that uncertainty. We therefore fully concur with the reports focus on the need to break down the divisions that  have characterized the very process of teaching and learning: the division between the ethical and cultural  dimension, the scientific and technological dimension, and the economic and social dimension.
(58.5) Lastly, in our opinion, it is fundamental to highlight education for democracy and human rights, which  the report wisely summarizes as ‘learning to live together’. We live in an age which has seen the emergence of  awareness of the unity of mankind, planet-wide, which the United Nations system and UNESCO in particular  have done SO much to promote. This means that we must educate others and ourselves not only in tolerance but in  respect for others, for those different from ourselves. Acceding eventually to an awareness and feeling of  belonging to one and the same humanity entails deriving pleasure from knowing, accepting and coming to terms  with the fact that this unicity is not the sum of a11 of us but our voluntary interaction on the basis of our own  cultural identity. The stronger the identity of every individual, the stronger integration Will be. For this reason, the  global village compels us to be individual members of this humanity, but on the other hand requires us to act in a  responsible manner in our local community.
(58.6) The ethical dimension also entails our educating ourselves and others in equity, in the right of a11 human  beings to enjoy the tangible and intangible benefits of a11 society and nature. Learning to live together accordingly  entails learning to cultivate and develop the responsibility of each and everyone of us in a spirit of solidarity. 1  should like to conclude by echoing the words of the delegate of Spain. Although what we are asking of education  is enormous, we should not demand everything of it, since the life of society is neither generated nor consumed in  education. In this way, we cari at least avoid failures that are avoidable. Thank you.
59. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker is the representative of Trinidad and Tobago.
60.1 MS HERVEY (Trinidad and Tobago):  Thank you, Mr President. The Trinidad and Tobago delegation has been struck by the extent to which  similar themes mark the discussions, whether they are one-to-one discussions, discussions in regional groups,  or discussions in plenary. And there are two seemingly conflicting trends 1 picked up in the report, but 1 think  that it is important to focus on them now. The whole business of one of the critical issues we feel is facing  education is that of speed technology, competition and SO forth. Everything is happening SO fast and change is  SO constant and SO intense. Yet, at the same time one needs to look at continuity - and 1 do not quite recall  which speaker referred to it but someone spoke earlier in these discussions and said that if you looked at  teaching in the 1920s and teaching today, you would not really see too much change, even though the world has  run SO far ahead of education. When you look at that, when you look at the dominante of technology,  globalization and SO on, a11 this seems to be contributing to a weakening of communal links, a devaluing,  somewhat, of the person because, in the face of ail this massive physical change, people seem to be becoming  less and less important. And it seems to me and to us in this delegation that the important thing is for education  to rescue the person. This is why the concept of the pillar of Zearning to be and Zearning to live together is SO  critical. Because when one feels that the self is diminishing, one way to deal with that is to wreak havoc on  other people and other things; and to that extent, if education deals with the business of Zearning to be and  learning to Zive together, as critical, it may help to preserve continuity of values and valuing, in the face of all  this change.
60.2 In terms of the processes of education, or the processes of getting the reform strategy right, as referred  to in the synthesis of the report, it would seem that we need to continue to focus on consultative and  participatory means, because these means are themselves educational. If one uses participation and consultation  as a way of bringing about the change, bringing about reform, the very process of change Will help people learn  how to be and how to live together. We feel, therefore, that this is one of the strategies, one of the concepts in  the report, that would need to be underscored - that the very process of reform should be an educative process  that strengthens the two pillars of learning to be and learning to live together.
60.3 Lastly, as a practical suggestion for lifelong learning, the report mentioned the concept of an education  voucher - seed money, as it were - for individuals to start an investment in education. We would appreciate a  development of this concept, because it, too, contributes to the business of learning to be, since it helps people  to plan for the future and invest in themselves. We want to suggest, then, that we keep the pillars. The key  concepts in the report seem to strike at the heart of the issues we now face. But we would like to suggest that  the strategies, and that particular strategy be developed, because they contribute to the whole. Thank you very  much.
61. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Madam. The next speaker is the representative of Sudan.
(62.1) Mr ELBAKRI (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. It is nearly a quarter of a Century since Edgar Faure submitted his report on  the development of education, and now another great Frenchman, Jacques Delors, is providing us with a report on  education in the next Century. 1 should like to read the two reports together SO that we may understand exactly  what the difference is between the continuing education advocated by Edgar Faure and that envisaged by  Mr Delors. In any case, by doing SO, we Will see the importance of the direction taken by UNESCO half way  through its long life when it introduced into the educational sector for the first time the expression ‘continuing  education’, as Mr Faure then called for. The first thing one notices is that Edgar Faure’s report was issued as a  one-off report and was not accompanied by another one, as is now the case since a further report on culture and  development is to be delivered tomorrow by Mr de Cuéllar. The international environment has changed since over
20 years ago. The new meaning of continuing education is bound to be different from that to which we have  become accustomed.
(62.2) There are significant differences between the two reports. When the first report was issued by Edgar  Faure following the Stockholm Conference in 1972, environmental problems were in their infancy and  development then meant purely economic development. Its humanitarian aspects had not been defined and the  concept of development had not yet given rise to these new ideas of sustainable development and human  development. Despite the progress in information technology, the contours of the new information society had not  yet become apparent, and the meaning of civil society, in which we now live, was then unknown. The issues of  democracy and human rights were not posed in the same way as today, and the civil wars and national or ethnie  conflicts that threaten us today did not exist. It is true that the Berlin Wall was standing, but today other walls  exist which we need to pull down.
(62.3) 1 would not be adding anything to what you already know if 1 were to talk about the United Nations  conferences on human rights, and population and development, the World Summit for Social Development, the  Beijing World Conference on Women, and whether the international environment was different then to what it is  now. However, we should not be surprised that Mr Delors’ report ends with a cal1 for a new culture, as does  Mr de Cuéllar’s report, since they both conclude with the phrase ‘a culture of peace’, which has now become  UNESCO’s slogan.
(62.4) It is true to say that Edgar Faure was the first to consolidate and build on the concept of continuing  education, a concept that had been known well before him. Education experts had previously been aware of this  concept, as already mentioned. According to a well-attested tradition, the Prophet Muhammad said: ‘Seek  knowledge from the cradle to the grave’. However, 1 would like to say that this education, this continuing  education, has acquired a new image which, within the educational system, has turned it into a byword for  something that sweeps away the barriers of time, place and history. In my view, such continuing education is not  as suggested in the report, meant to be in addition to compulsory education or university education, but rather to  supplement the educational process during childhood and at school. Before 1 deal with the new barrier to failure  described by the Delors report, we note that the report does not have just one pillar of education, namely ‘learning  to be’, as did Faure, but speaks of four pillais: first, ‘learning to know’ your world and other peoples; second,  learning to do’ SO that education may be rounded out with work; third, ‘learning to be’ for yourself and for the  group; and fourth, learning to live’ SO that a11 people may live. This is the most important thing that we cari be  given at the present time.
(62.5) There is also a symmetry between individuality and conununality, between what benefits the individual  and what benefits people. Here, we emphasize the new philosophy advocated by the Delors report, which does not  see continuing education as one stage in the educational process, as did Edgar Faure, but rather as education in its  entirety: pre-school, basic and secondary education. We conunend here what the report says about secondary  education and suggest that secondary education is important in the context of both continuing education and  university education. It is not just higher education because university education must also be a stage in this  continuing education. In this way, we arrive at the ‘learning society’ and thus a new interpretation: indeed, the  education provided by society and engaged in by people lays stress on human development. Individuals are to be  shaped by the education provided by such a society, not that prescribed by schools or imposed from above, but  that which Springs from within such a society to become what Delors calls ‘lifelong education’. This new  philosophy has its practical aspects because it is no longer the State alone that bears the costs of education, but  the whole comrnunity; it is no longer school alone that is the vesse1 of education, but the whole of society; and no  longer is the purpose of education merely human resources development; rather, education in and of itself  constitutes a development of human and cultural resources.
(62.6) Mr President, with great modesty and circumspection, the Delors report has endeavoured to voice the  international cornmunity’s yearning for excellence. We maintain with great conviction that this deficiency is the  cause of conflict and wars, and that excellence may be the remedy for the illness afflicting us.
(62.7) Mr President, we have spoken before of UNESCO’s ethical mission and its role in protecting us in the  information society. We believe that this mission is comprehensive in nature and not designed simply to protect  us from the information society. Mr President, we now urge everyone to examine the Delors report not in
551    isolation, but in conjunction with the De Cuéllar report, with the idea of issuing, on this occasion, an appeal from  Paris, the ‘Paris peace appeal’, an appeal which could be adopted by the General Conference next week. Thank  you.
63. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Sir. The next speaker on the list is the representative of Iraq. 1 must appeal to  you very strongly to be brief, out of respect for Mr Delors, out of respect for each other. We still have a good  number of speakers. 1 appeal, and 1 am being intentionally quite frank, to the last speaker: that was much too  long for this time of day, and we have to be more brief. Iraq, you have the floor.
(64.1) Mr ALANBARI (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 promise to be very brief. 1 have not had an opportunity to study the summary  of the report of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-first Century, but 1 listened with great  appreciation to the abstract presented by Mr Delors at the beginning of this meeting. We are therefore looking  forward very much to the full text of the report, and are certain that it Will constitute a turning-point in the  development of the philosophy of education and educational systems throughout the world.
(64.2) Mr President, the main point 1 should like to focus on is that globalization and the technological and  information revolution are presenting humanity with a new challenge which is almost existential in nature  because, at the moment, we are not only suffering from structured unemployrnent in a11 the world’s economies but,  it seems to me that during the first few decades of the twenty-first Century we Will face a crisis which may be  summed up in the following question: Will human work be possible or necessary as a result of the technological  and information revolution?
(64.3) Facing this challenge to societies that are well-educated, but most of whose members are unemployed  Will lead to countless incidents and problems of racial conflict and economic migration and to a gradua1  debasement of the value of human life. It seems to me therefore that any educational or teaching system must  address this problem of human work gradually decreasing in value and importance until it becomes possible to  imagine that only 10 per cent of any working population may have the opportunity to work, and perhaps not five  days a week either, but only one or two days. The overwhelming majority of people, however, Will be without  work. What Will be the value of their life? It seems to me that this challenge should be made one of the priorities  of any educational system. Thank you.
65. The PRESIDENT:  The next speaker is the representative of Nigeria.
66.1 Mr AKINLUYI (Nigeria):  Thank you, Mr President. Nigeria wishes to congratulate Mr Jacques Delors for the excellence of his  interim report, for the issues that have been researched and for the potentialities and promise of his ultimate  report, which prefigures and suggests tremendous intensity. Indeed, we are assured of a flurry of activity and  impressive, assiduous research respecting cohesion, running the entire gamut and underscoring the being, the  essence of nature and the compelling collaborative quality of coexistence.
66.2 However, the interim nature of the report gives us ample opportunity for posing hypothetical questions,  such as whether these contingencies about imponderables are, or are not, critical and important for the next  millennium. We should escape from the malaise of conformity. Mr President, lifelong education should take  due cognizance of its chain, its sequential strand in the continuum or the process of existence.
66.3 What is quintessential in all this is the ultimate modus of implementation, lest what is conceived in  grandeur fault us in execution. Mr President, lifelong education should be people-oriented, it should be  development-oriented, it should be sensitive and sensitized to the dichotomy between the classic doctrine of  education, which is the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, and the utilitarian concept of education which  encapsulates Mill’s end-view of human action. It should give due cognizance to the antithesis between duty and  desire, logic and emotion, the moment and the future. In essence we should be conscious of an over-subjectivity  of interpretation and definition.
66.4 At a11 events, lifelong education should be ethos-oriented, fulfilment-oriented and global in this  consideration, that is, in all its multi-faceted strands - we must never be oblivious of mono-, multi- and pluri-  cultural dimensions. One final point, Sir: we are made to work out strategies for concretizing the four pillais,  the modalities for fitting them meaningfully into the curricula. It is incumbent on us to plan the education of  teachers, SO as to ensure the meaningful multiplier effect of the invaluable ideas enunciated in this report.
67. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your intervention, and also for this very rational use of time. The next speaker is the  representative of Bahrain.
(68.1) Mr AL-ABDULLA (Bahrain) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, 1 should like first of a11 to express the appreciation of my country’s delegation of the  contents of Mr Jacques Delors’ report on Education for the Twenty-first Century. 1 should like to make the  following observations: ‘learning to know’ is one of the basic objectives of education. 1 feel that what is needed in  order to tope with the tremendous advances in knowledge and communications, media and technology in the  twenty-first Century is not only to develop the individual’s ability to acquire knowledge, but also to develop the  learner’s ability to continue and sustain the learning process, to tope with advanced and modern information  technologies and to make good use of them in achieving the capability to learn.
(68.2) Secondly, learning to live together’ is an important and fundamental objective, particularly in a world  which cari be seen to be heading towards an increase in interna1 conflicts of a racial, religious or sectarian nature.  It would also be appropriate for UNESCO’s strategy on education for the twenty-first Century to be aimed at  developing the ability of individuals to tope with the culture of competition, a fundamental component of the  culture of the twenty-lïrst Century, which Will be based on economic competition in accordance with a free and  open economic system; this system Will be dominant in the twenty-first Century, whether we like it or not.
(68.3) Mr President, the report addresses a number of educational trends in the twenty-first Century. 1 should  like to ask the members of the Commission to provide fuller responses to a number of questions, the most  important of which are: One, how to teach and learn in the twenty-first Century? How to enhance self-learning,  continuing education and work? How to tope with the increasing volume of knowledge? Two, how to develop the  methodology of problem-solving, scient& thinking and innovation to enable individuals to adjust and live safely  in the twenty-first Century? Three, how to make the best use of computers since it is expected that most people  Will have one in their pocket instead of a pen, and how to use computers in both forma1 and non-forma1 education  and for the eradication of illiteracy? Four, is it possible to generalize technical education at the primary level and  how may that be done in poor and developing countries? Five, what role do communications media and modern  technology play in the teaching and learning process? Will schools remain as they are? Will there be education  complexes or Will there be no schools in the future, with people studying at home? Will pupils go to school in  future? What Will they learn both in and outside school? What Will the role and function of schools be in the  future? Six, how to develop curricula for the twenty-first Century, and what role Will textbooks play? Will there be  any textbooks and what Will they be like? Seven, how to teach ethics and values such as tolerance, a co-operative  spirit and a desirable outlook, and strengthen the sense of belonging to a country, to the world and to the culture  of peace? How to develop strategies to assess the performance of students.
(68.4) My final question, Mr President, is how to increase the return on education at a minimum cost SO as to  enable individuals to adjust positively and effectively to the changes of the twenty-first Century? Mr President, 1  should like to ask the Commission to look very closely at these and other matters of detail SO that its orientations  may become clear. 1 extend to the Commission my delegation’s gratitude and best wishes for every success. Thank  you for your attention.
69. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Sir. The next speaker is the representative of the Philippines.
70.1 MS ALVAREZ (Philippines):  Mr President, from the Philippines we would also like to express our appreciation for this report of the  Commission headed by Mr Delors. We particularly agree with his stress on lifelong education, because we  believe tbat the education of a person does not end until he reaches the grave. We are particularly interested in  the news about the role of creativity, because we feel that true human resources development must be focused  on unleashing the creative power of every Citizen.
70.2 This is where we hope that there cari be an accommodation, or integration, of the use of the arts in a  broader sense, making them accessible to everybody, because the arts have literally been limited almost to an  experience for the élite. And yet, we have seen how butterflies cari corne out of the cocoon by providing  meaningful and relevant artistic experiences to marginalized communities, from street kids to the disabled. We  hope that there cari be a greater understanding of how the use of the artistic disciplines rooted in the indigenous  heritage cari really help elevate the values of participation, collaboration, discipline and togetberness for a  common vision. We also hope that, by focusing on education, we cari also strongly reconcile cultural survival  with technological advances. This would mean that there would be stress on national identity as well as global  consciousness.
70.3 There is a problem with regard to education in some developing countries because of their common  historical or colonial history. There is still some superimposition of certain foreign structures, SO that there is a  definite need for a real space for an appreciation of traditional cultures which are as endangered as our flora  and fauna, whose existence is threatened. We hope that the arts and the media are also utilized and mobilized  for education for the twenty-first Century. This was stressed by some of our speakers. Because the media is a  very strong educational tool, SO we must really consider how it could best be used.
70.4 We would like to invite tbe Commission to take advantage of an event in the Philippines, which is  hoping precisely to harvest the wealth of wisdom of the heritage of indigenous peoples to live in peace and in  harmony with nature, and link it to our youth, who are often mesmerized with the Madonna and McDonald  culture, SO that there cari be a real process of conscientization when we consider the educational studies that we  are providing to our children. The event 1 mentioned Will be held in February and could be used as a laboratory  to discuss the results of the Commission5 report. Thank you.
71. The PRESIDENT:  The next speaker is the representative of Canada.
72.1 M. PELLEY (Canada) :  Monsieur le President, c’est avec satisfaction et grand intérêt que les représentants et représentantes du  Canada ont accueilli la synthèse preliminaire du rapport de la Commission Delors, à la fois comme source  d’inspiration face aux défis auxquels nous sommes confrontés et comme cadre de réflexion pour guider les  nécessaires réformes de l’éducation. Etant donné la responsabilité des provinces en matière d’éducation, ce sont  les ministres de l’éducation du Canada qui, après avoir etudié avec soin le rapport, évalueront le suivi à donner  aux recommandations au niveau du système scolaire. Nous souhaitons toutefois d’ores et déjà vous faire part de  quelques commentaires.  (The speaker continues in English)
72.2 Rapid global changes oblige us to reconsider many aspects of education delivery systems. Making the  change to lifelong learning in order to meet the challenges of the twenty-first Century implies a rethinking of  educational reforms in such a perspective. In this connection, as Canada’s chief spokesperson for education  stated in the Commission II debate, the work of the Delors Commission has inspired us and we anxiously await  receipt of the full report.  (L’orateur reprend en français)
72.3 Nous sommes heureux de retrouver dans ce rapport préliminaire les préoccupations exprimées lors de  la réunion du groupe de travail de la Commission Delors qui s’est tenue à Vancouver à l’invitation du Canada.  En effet, le rapport fait de l’éducation tout au long de la vie l’une des clés de l’entrée dans le XXIe siècle, une  approche que les ministres de l’éducation du Canada ont déjà adoptée dans une récente déclaration conjointe.  Nous trouvons particulièrement intéressant le recadrage du processus d’apprentissage autour des quatre piliers.  Dans le contexte du pluralisme qui pose le défi de la cohésion sociale tout autant que celui du développement  dune culture de paix, apprendre à vivre ensemble nous apparaît comme un concept puissant et évocateur qui a  une résonance concrète tant pour les citoyens et les citoyennes que pour les pays. Compte tenu de l’ampleur des  défis identifiés par la Commission Delors et qui interpellent l’éducation au premier chef, le Canada souhaite  connaître le suivi que l’UNESCO entend apporter à ses travaux.  (The speaker continues in English)
72.4 In this perspective, the Canadian Commission for UNESCO Will promote the study of the conclusions  and recommendations of this International Commission in our country. Education authorities Will review the
555    findings to determine appropriate follow-up in the Canadian context. No doubt, just as UNESCO’s last major  report on education, LRarning to Be, significantly influenced education in the years following its publication,  the report of the Delors Commission Will have a major influence on education policy in the twenty-fïrst Century.  Thank you, Mr President.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. And now, as the last speaker in the first round, 1 give the floor to the  representative of Slovakia.
74.1 MS TEPLANOVA (Slovakia):  Mr President, 1 would like to express many thanks for the introduction by Mr Delors, and for the  synthesis prepared by the Commission regarding the need for a radical rethinking of life and - in connection  with this - of educational systems. Our national science-centres-for-all project, and the philosophy of science  centres in general are based directly on similar ideas.
74.2 As far as the balance between formal and non-formal education is concemed, 1 would like to add  something to the final part of the report. In this part, we find hints conceming schools and universities,  teachers and pupils, but new bodies and the so-called out-of-school education with its cultural and educational  elements as well as broadcasting theory, science centres, programmes such as science festivals and SO forth,  which could significantly contribute to the stated common aims and new relations, seem to have been omitted.
14.3 Referring also to the Declaration on Project 2000+, adopted by the International Forum on Scient&  and Technological Literacy for Al1 held in Paris in 1993, and to that part which concerns non-formal  education, in particular, and also to the conclusions of the International Conference on Science and the Public,  held in Bratislava in 1994, according to which science centres are envisaged as national institutions, with  government bodies, non-governmental organizations, industrialists, universities, school authorities and  personalities recognizing their role and closely following their development as a complement to formal school  education, let me stress that the national and international networks of science centres are designed to attract  people - principally the Young. They are popular in the true sense of the term, serving society as a whole and  designed for people of any age and any level of education. They are pilot institutions, transferring new scientific  and technological discoveries to the people. They are bridges between forma1 science education and science in  real life. They are open experiments, lifelong learning resources, establishing the place of science and  appropriate technologies in varied environmental contexts. They could serve as open forums; as a space for  communication between science, modem technologies, cultures, schools and society; as a medium creating a  deeper sense of progress, joy and achievement for all; as a medium leading to the development of values, as  well as tare and concem for nature; as a resource supporting the capacity of people to understand and develop  science and technology; as institutions of non-formal educational research and public understanding of science;  as institutions supporting formal education; as a context; as a methodology; as a tool; and as an instrument of  teacher training. May 1 invite the Commission to take these considerations into account in its final conclusions.
74.4 Lastly, 1 would like to inform you about the first World Congress of Science Centres, to be held next  June in Finland. At this congress, participants from science centres Will speak about their experience and  visions with respect to ‘learning for tomorrow’. It is necessary for policy-makers, societies, schools and  universities, as well as research and technological bodies, to recognize the challenge of science centres, to  change the old closed system of schools to an open, lifelong system of education. Thank you.
79. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 declare this very diversified and, in my personal opinion, rich debate  concluded, and without further ado 1 give the floor to the Chairman of the International Commission on  Education for the Twenty-First Century, Mr Jacques Delors.
80.1 M. DELORS, président de la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle :  Monsieur le Président, je remercie vivement tous les participants a cette table ronde placée, comme  l’avait déclaré dès le début le délégué du Brésil et comme l’a répete le delégué de la France, sous l’égide d’une  culture du dialogue, la seule qui permette la compréhension mutuelle et aussi l’enrichissement mutuel. Nous  avons pris note de tout ce qui a été dit, nous nous livrerons à un exercice d’autocritique sur certains aspects du  rapport, mais vous êtes bien conscients comme moi que l’un de nos principaux obstacles réside, comme je l’ai  déjà souligné, dans la diversité des situations. Mon dernier souhait sera que le suivi du rapport se situe  également dans le contexte de cette culture de dialogue, ce qui amènerait la Commission, comme elle a tenté de  le faire tout en étant parfois normative, à essayer de poser les bonnes questions.
80.2 Je voudrais quand même - et excusez-moi de ne pas citer tout le monde - relever quelques lignes de  force importantes en les regroupant autour des quatre thèmes qui sont les paramètres importants de notre  avenir, puisque la Commission doit réfléchir sur le XXIe siècle. La Commission, pour répondre à une question,  ne fera pas de distinction entre le moyen et le long terme, elle essaie - et c’est déjà très prétentieux - de réfléchir  sur un quart de siècle, 25 ans, à l’horizon 2020, si vous voulez. En deuxième lieu, j’associerai certaines  observations relatives à la diversité, et sans doute, les enseignements à en tirer pour la coopération  internationale et l’UNESCO. En troisième lieu, je retiendrai ce qui a d’ailleurs retenu le plus l’attention, les  fondements et les contenus de l’éducation et essentiellement, me semble-t-il, le fait que l’école doit être ouverte,  ambitieuse et modeste à la fois. Enfin je mettrai l’accent sur les stratégies éducatives, puisque, dans mon exposé  liminaire d’aujourd’hui, je n’ai pas eu l’occasion de parler des trois parties du rapport, et je rappellerai que,  même si tous vos pays, dans leur diversité non seulement économique mais aussi philosophique, politique et  spirituelle, éprouvent des difficultés à formuler des recommandations communes, nous approfondirons dans la  troisième partie du rapport tout ce qui concerne ces stratégies : les réformes à adopter et le moment où elles  doivent être apportées, les acteurs à leur associer, le rôle des choix de société, le rôle de la d&entralisation, ce  qu’on peut attendre des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de l’enseignement à distance.
80.3 J’en viens maintenant à quelques paramètres de l’avenir parce que vous avez montré un très grand  intérêt, me semble-t-il, pour le contexte général du rapport. Je n’en suis pas étonné sachant que l’UNESCO est  une institution qui ne s’occupe pas seulement de l’éducation mais aussi de la culture, de la recherche et de la  science et qu’ainsi vous êtes amenés à adopter une optique assez large. Cela fait d’ailleurs votre originalité par  rapport à d’autres organisations internationales dominées par l’économie, et nous avons pris la précaution de ne  pas établir un rapport à dominante économique, c’est-à-dire portant uniquement sur les relations entre  éducation et travail ou éducation et besoins économiques. Parmi ces paramètres de l’avenir, vous avez beaucoup  insisté sur le respect de la pluralité. Je crois qu’il s’agit là d’un aspect très important. Il faut réconcilier les  différentes philosophies, les grandes philosophies qui marquent l’existence. La déléguée de la Thaïlande a  montré comment la conception bouddhiste s’intégrait dans 1”‘apprendre à être”. Le délégué de la Chine a  également évoqué cette idée. Nous avons eu des débats au sein de la Commission sur ce sujet parce qu’il y a une  minorité de membres qui ne voudraient pas qu’on fasse intervenir la dimension spirituelle mais, dans  l’ensemble, nous pensons que cette dimension spirituelle doit être retenue comme élément constitutif de  l’enseignement. Bien entendu, nous souhaitons que toutes les spiritualités soient ouvertes, mais c’est là une  question qui déborde le cadre du rapport.
80.4 Il est un deuxième grand paramètre, le village planétaire et les différentes tensions qu’il recouvre. A  cet égard, le délégué de la France a eu raison de me corriger : les tensions, on ne les surmonte pas, on les gère,  dune manière dialectique, en tenant compte des deux termes qui s’opposent. Cela correspond à l’acception qui  est la nôtre. Au nombre de ces tensions figure la tension, primordiale, entre enracinement et déracinement ou,  si vous voulez, pour revenir à un problème qui a beaucoup intéressé certains délégués, la tension entre culture  traditionnelle et banalisation par une culture mondiale. Il s’agit de l’un des grands problèmes de notre temps car  c’est la première fois dans l’histoire du monde que le développement de la culture est autant lié à la puissance  économique. Evidemment, il y aura sans doute encore des souverains pour financer des oeuvres culturelles sans  aucune rentabilité, mais les moyens d’expression artistique importants que sont la télévision et le cinéma sont  tributaires de la puissance economique et des mécanismes de l’économie de marché, Au sein de notre  Commission, soyez rassurés, on pourra donc insister sur la préservation des cultures traditionnelles. D’ailleurs,  ces cultures traditionnelles peuvent constituer un apport pour une culture mondialisée. Il peut se produire des  phénomènes d’osmose. Nous traiterons de cette question et notamment du cas où, à l’intérieur dune nation, des
558    l/RT  minorités ont leur propre langue. Il est alors extrêmement difficile de savoir que faire avec la langue initiale des  ces minorités et comment passer ensuite à une langue nationale ou à une langue véhiculaire.
80.5 Le troisième paramètre majeur, après le respect de la pluralité philosophique et spirituelle et après les  chances et les risques du village planétaire dont beaucoup se sont préoccupés - ce qui m’a fait plaisir en un  sens - c’est le temps, la valeur du temps. Je crois que, étant donné le rappel de ce que disait le prophète sur le  temps, le rappel que je fais moi-même des travaux sur la société chronophage, compte tenu du fait, plus récent,  que l’on s’interroge sur la place du travail dans la société -je ne parle pas des activités, je parle du travail  légalement reconnu, dans la mesure où sa place diminue, où le temps de non-travail augmente et où l’utilisation  de ce dernier est un des grands problèmes de l’humanisme contemporain - il faut réapprendre le temps,  l’intégrer même d’une manière économique dans le modèle de développement. Et puis, le temps dégagé, c’est  aussi un espace plus grand pour l’éducation informelle. Il existe aussi un rapport dialectique entre le temps  consacré à l’éducation informelle et celui consacré à l’éducation formelle, le premier étant, d’après le  représentant de l’Egypte, plus important aujourd’hui que le second. Il y aurait beaucoup à dire à cet égard et les  enseignants eux-mêmes sont très déroutés par cette situation : ils voient en effet arriver des garçons et des filles  de 12 à 14 ans qui leur disent avoir acquis certaines connaissances et atteint un certain degré de maturité grâce  à ce qu’ils ont vu à la télévision. On retrouve ici l’opposition rappelée par le délégué français entre maturité et  maturation, notions qu’il convient de distinguer. Il faut donc tenir compte de cette évolution : l’éducation  informelle joue un rôle de plus en plus important, et le temps libéré, ou prétendu tel, sera de plus en plus grand.
80.6 J’évoquerai enfin un quatrième point, puisque vous l’avez cité, qui est celui, je dois vous le dire, qui  embarrasse le plus la Commission, je veux parler du défi du virtuel. Je m’explique : dans la mesure où les  nouvelles technologies de l’information vont créer à côté du monde réel un monde virtuel - de même qu’à côté  de l’économie réelle, il y a la bulle financière - ce monde virtuel va-t-il servir de lien entre les individus qui  vivront des vies concrètes, ou bien va-t-il servir de refuge, de nouvelle niche à une quantité croissante de nos  contemporains qui voudraient fuir les réalités du monde et pour lesquels le monde virtuel ne serait pas une  source de connaissance plus grande, mais au contraire, pourrait constituer un risque d’aliénation ? Je vous  avoue que, sur cette question, nous n’avons pas encore oser écrire une ligne tellement elle nous paraît difficile.  Parce que, si nous insistons sur les risques du monde virtuel, nous allons retomber dans un défaut de l’élitisme.  Vous vous rappelez que l’un des défauts de l’élitisme, c’est de penser que les gens qui sont le moins instruits ou  le moins capables seront les victimes des risques de demain, alors que les gens très instruits seront épargnés.  Comme ceux qui ont soutenu ce genre de thèse se sont toujours trompés, je m’en méfie en ce qui concerne le  monde virtuel. Toujours est-il, comme l’a dit la déléguée de la Thaïlande, que la demande d’éducation est de  plus en plus forte et de plus en plus diversifiée et qu’elle a en face d’elle une offre elle-même de plus en plus  diversifiée.
80.7 S’agissant de la question très importante de la prise en compte de la diversité, qui a été rappelée  notamment par les délégués du Kenya, du Tchad, de la Chine et de la Jordanie, nous ne pourrons pas, dans un  rapport qui ne doit pas dépasser 150 pages, restituer tout ce que nous avons appris au cours de nos réunions  spécialisées tenues dans les cinq continents. Nous ferons malgré tout une place particulière à l’Afrique  subsaharienne. Notamment parce que la réunion que nous avons tenue à Dakar a été passionnante, mais aussi  parce que l’on dit que l’Afrique subsaharienne est le continent oublié du développement. A chaque réunion  internationale à laquelle je participe, ici ou ailleurs, cette question revient. Les chiffres sont indiscutables, mais  en même temps, il y a des raisons d’espérer et, aujourd’hui, je peux dire aux délégués des pays africains que  mon opinion personnelle est que l’Afrique subsaharienne n’est pas condamnée au sous-développement par un  décret de l’histoire. Les sociétés qui la composent renferment les ferments de son développement, mais il lui  faut s’insérer dans une coopération internationale revue et corrigée qui supprimeraient deux défauts : d’abord  les pays concernés ne peuvent recopier les modèles des anciens: pays colonisateurs, ils devraient s’en persuader  dans leurs techniques administratives et de gestion des grands biens collectifs comme l’éducation et, ensuite, ils  peuvent eux-mêmes trouver des moyens originaux de développement, sans avoir à passer par le circuit  historique des pays industrialisés.
80.8 En ce qui concerne les fondements et les contenus de l’éducation sur lesquels ont porté à peu près la  moitié de vos interventions, j’ai observé un large consensus au sujet des quatre piliers de l’éducation. Bien sûr,  ces piliers sont liés entre eux ; bien sûr, les moyens d’éducation doivent intégrer le jeu, le sport, et prendre en  compte la diversité des talents. J’ai aussi constaté un accord en ce qui concerne l’éducation de base : je peux  rassurer certaines délégations et leur dire que, dans l’éducation de base, nous accorderons une importance  particulière à l’enseignement préscolaire, même si nous connaissons les difficultés liées à sa mise en oeuvre et  son coût pour certains pays. Mais il nous a semblé que l’enseignement préscolaire, dans la mesure où il relève  de la responsabilité commune des familles, des communautés de voisinage et des institutions publiques
559    décentralisées, a une importance fondamentale et permet d’ailleurs à la fois de concilier le concept et la leçon de  choses, l’enseignement et le jeu, le jeu qui est aussi une leçon de choses. Certains ont craint que la notion  d’éducation de base, si bien définie et recommandée à Jomtien, soit délaissée. Ce n’est pas le cas. Ce n’est pas  parce que nous parlons d’éducation tout au long de la vie que nous allons négliger l’éducation de base. Bien  mieux, nous dirons dans notre rapport que, si l’on veut donner à chacun le goût d’apprendre, le goût  d’apprendre à apprendre, et si l’on veut transformer en réalité l’éducation tout au long de la vie, il faut que  l’éducation de base soit améliorée, y compris dans les pays riches et dans les pays développés. Car c’est elle qui  permettra au jeune de comprendre qu’il doit apprendre tout au long de sa vie, non seulement pour des raisons  professionnelles et matérielles, mais aussi pour développer son goût de vivre et de comprendre le monde dans  lequel il vit. La Déclaration de Jomtien reste donc pour nous une base essentielle. Donc l’education tout au long  de la vie, c’est ce concept dont je voudrais dire qu’il est différent de l’addition de l’education première et de  l’éducation permanente. Pourquoi ? Parce que nous avons derrière nous, maintenant, 25,30 ans d’éducation  permanente. D’abord on a tort de parler d’éducation permanente. Il s’agit surtout de formation professionnelle  permanente quand on regarde les statistiques et les chiffres, ce qui n’empêche pas qu’il y a des associations qui  font de l’éducation permanente en utilisant les centres scientifiques, les réseaux, etc. Parler d’éducation tout au  long de la vie, c’est fusionner dans une seule perspective l’éducation première et l’éducation permanente en  cessant d’assimiler l’éducation permanente à la formation professionnelle. Et cette idée de l’éducation tout au  long de la vie est liée d’abord à la mutation rapide du monde et à cette énorme difficulté que représente  l’apprendre à vouloir vivre ensemble. Elle est liée au changement opéré dans la répartition du temps entre le  travail et le non-travail. Elle est liée aussi à la formidable accumulation de connaissances nouvelles, qu’il ne  s’agit pas de faire entrer dans nos crânes, mais d’utiliser de façon à avoir des têtes bien faites et non pas des  têtes bien pleines. Il faut donc que l’éducation tout au long de la vie permette à tout moment d’accéder à des  connaissances, de les maîtriser et d’en tirer ce qui est nécessaire pour notre développement culturel ou pour  notre activité professionnelle.
80.9 Quant aux moyens d’enseignement, de même que nous hésitons à parler du monde virtuel, de même  nous ne nous sentons pas capables de vous produire un texte parfait, à jour, sur l’utilisation des nouvelles  technologies de l’information. Nous ferons l’historique de ce qui existe déjà depuis longtemps, l’enseignement à  distance, la radio, etc., mais, en ce qui concerne les procédés les plus sophistiqués et notamment l’interactivité,  nous ne sommes pas en mesure aujourd’hui, président ou membres de la Commission, d’établir un diagnostic et  d’engager certains pays dans des investissements qui s’avéreraient demain trop coûteux. Bien sûr, ces moyens  vont se développer et le président Clinton vient de décider de câbler toutes les écoles secondaires de Californie  d’ici à l’an 2000. Bien sûr, il y a des expériences absolument fascinantes d’interactivité, mais, même dans ces  expériences, il y a une chose qu’il ne faut jamais oublier, la présence indispensable du maître. Il n’est pas  possible de mettre d’un côté un ordinateur central et de l’autre devant un petit ordinateur un étudiant ou un  élève et de supprimer les maîtres. Le couple maître et élève reste un élément essentiel de la problématique de  l’éducation, même si cela peut paraître vieux jeu à certains d’entre vous. J’entends par là le maître avec tout le  respect que l’élève doit avoir pour lui car, ce n’est pas parce que l’on apprend beaucoup en dehors de l’école que  ce respect doit disparaître. Le maître est là pour rappeler à un enfant ou à un adolescent ce que l’humanité a  appris sur elle-même, non pas simplement dans le domaine des sciences, des mathématiques, de la chimie,  mais aussi par l’expérience. Si l’on veut apprendre à vivre ensemble, il faut absolument que les enseignants  soient des hommes et des femmes qui aiment leur métier, qui sont des militants de leur métier. C’est pour cela  d’ailleurs queje terminerai par la question de la revalorisation absolument nécessaire des maîtres.
80.10 Pour ce qui est des stratégies éducatives, il est, dans ce cas également, difficile pour la Commission de  formuler des recommandations comme certains le demandent, mais nous mettrons l’accent sur quelques points  qui ont d’ailleurs été évoqués au cours de cette discussion. Tout d’abord, il ne faut pas procéder à une réforme  chaque fois qu’un gouvernement ou un ministre de l’éducation change, en oubliant, même, d’évaluer ce qui a  déjà été fait. En deuxième lieu, une réforme de l’éducation donne parfois des résultats quelques années plus  tard. N’est-on pas trop impatient parfois ? Une stratégie éducative module de la matière humaine, ce n’est pas  du tout une expérience de laboratoire. Troisièmement, ces stratégies éducatives doivent être fondées de plus en  plus sur une décentralisation, une décentralisation synonyme d’innovation, qui évite l’alourdissement  bureaucratique d’un système géré d’en haut et qui fasse droit à la diversité des éleves et des cursus sur laquelle  repose d’ailleurs notre conception de l’enseignement secondaire. Tous ces éléments seront donc pris en compte  dans les stratégies éducatives, mais nous ne pouvons pas exporter dans tous les pays un prêt-à-porter en matière  de réforme et nous n’avons pas la prétention de le faire. Comme je vous l’ai dit tout à l’heure, nous essayons  surtout de susciter un débat que le Directeur général, M. Power et ses services, les instituts associés, qui font du  très bon travail, continueront à alimenter.
80.11 L’éducation est un problème éternel. C’est pourquoi nous n’avons pas l’intention d’apporter une pierre  philosophale nouvelle. C’est un problème éternel dont les racines se trouvent dans ce que l’histoire a  d’immuable mais dont l’étude doit tenir compte du changeant. Voilà peut-être la tache la plus complexe à  accomplir par tout responsable : concilier en matière éducative l’immuable et le changeant. Pour ce faire, je le  répète, il faut absolument que le maître, professeur ou instituteur, voit sa situation revalorisée, sa situation  matérielle, quand c’est possible, sa situation sociale, grâce à l’estime de la société, sa situation culturelle, grâce  à la formation. Il s’agit de savoir ce qu’il faut apprendre aujourd’hui, comment se placer dans cette perspective  de l’éducation tout au long de la vie, comment recycler les professeurs. A cet égard, les nouvelles technologies  de l’information peuvent jouer un rôle considérable. Un maître est capable de saisir sur un ecran les dernières  données des mathématiques, de la physique ou de la chimie. Pour lui, les réseaux d’accès à des banques de  données sont absolument indispensables. Il est surtout apparu, au cours de tous nos voyages, que l’enseignant  devrait jouir dune considération morale accrue. Il y a eu des sociétés - et les grands penseurs de l’education en  parlent souvent - où la révérence émit grande à l’égard du maître. Dans mon propre pays, avant la guerre, dans  chaque commune, l’homme à qui l’on venait demander conseil sur tous les sujets, c’était l’instituteur même si,  dans les régions où la religion était fortement implantée, on s’adressait aussi parfois au curé. L’avis de  l’instituteur avait une grande valeur bien que la société ne fût pas moins instruite qu’aujourd’hui. Il faut que,  d’une manière ou d’une autre, celui qui a choisi comme métier non pas le plus lucratif, non pas celui qui lui  vaudrait les applaudissements de tout le monde - car quand un enfant réussit mal à l’école, la famille l’attribue à  l’instituteur ou au professeur - et qui exerce ce métier avec foi, avec militantisme, avec l’envie d’apprendre aux  autres, avec l’envie d’apprendre lui-même se voie reconnaître la place qu’il mérite dans la société. J’espère que  l’UNF!SCO fera de cette nécessité l’un des thèmes dominants des années à venir. Je vous remercie.
81. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Delors. You highlighted the role of the teacher, which you stressed in the  middle of your address and again at the end. 1 think that, as you said, the role of the teacher is not only to  instruct but also to share his or her knowledge and experience with the students. 1 do feel that this aftemoon  you have shared your knowledge and experience with us. 1 myself, sitting just beside you, had the feeling of  being a student in the best sense of the Word. SO thank you very much. We all wish you all the very best in the  final phases of your work and we certainly look forward to seeing it finalized next year.  La séance est levée à 18 h.45  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.45
3acenanue 3aKpbrsaeTcrr n 18.45  sldd ‘i,ta LLJI j s...wI CL+  &~w38rt4553&