Treizième séance plénière
2 novembre 1995 à 15 h.15  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Thirteenth plenary meeting
2 November 1995 at 3.15 pm.  President: Mr KROGH (Denmark)  Decimotercera sesion plenaria
2 HOX6pX 1995 r. R 15.15  npegtcefla’renb: FH KPOT (Hawa)
06CYXflEHME BOnPOCOB Ol3LBEfi IIOJIMTHKEI (nponon>Kenue)  (&q LLJI zA+Jl &Jho  j!isE!t%#ik (ig 1  Address bv bis Excellencv Mr Victor Hugo Cat-denas, Vice-President of the Reuublic of Bolivia
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have the great honour and pleasure of opening this thirteenth meeting with  an address by the Vice-President of Bolivia, His Excellency Mr Victor Hugo Cardenas. 1 would, lïrst of all,  Your Excellency, in my capacity as President of the General Conference like to welcome you on behalf of the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, the Director-General and all the distinguished delegates. And 1 am indeed  proud, honoured and pleased to do SO.
1.2 Let me pay tribute, Sir, to your personal and continuous work for the advancement of democracy in  your country and the recognition of human beings as the indispensable path of successful development. Your  country has been through many years of problems, we a11 know, but democracy is taking root, and we all  congratulate you very warmly on that.
1.3 Mr Vice-President, during the general policy debate in which we are at present engaged, a11 the heads  of delegations have stressed the need to reinvigorate the ethical mission of UNESCO in order to respond to the  immense expectations of the world in education, science, culture and communication. We are sure your  contribution to that intellectual debate Will be of paramount importance to us all. Thank you for the confidence  you place in UNESCO, as witnessed by this new visit to the General Conference of the Organization, very  shortly after the visit of your President to the Executive Board.
1.4 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is now my great pleasure to invite His Excellency  Mr Victor Hugo Ckdenas, Vice-President of Bolivia, to address the plenary in this general policy debate.
(2.1) Mr CAKDENAS (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Director-General, Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, distinpuished delegates of a11 of the countries forming part of the great family of UNESCO: Bolivia, as a  founding country of UNESCO, greets the fiftieth nnniversary of the Organization and reaffirms its determination  that cooperation in education, science and culture should be the instrument of a new world order of peace and  mutual respect among all peoples. T~~~ether with all the countries represented here, Bolivia shares the conviction  that humanity as a whole has henefited from UNESCO’s activity. 1 greet you, Mr President of the General  Confcrence, and am sure that under your guidance 2nd with the participation of a11 delegations present we shall  achieve the success we desire.
(2.2) This is a year of challenges for UNESCO, but also of self-examination, in the context of a constantly  changing world. Noteworthy in this respect is the renovative spirit of this gathering which should enable our  Organisation to hring its programmes, projects and administrative structure into harmony and keeping with a  world that has shifted its outlook, its goals and its political scenario.
(2.3) Today, leaving hehind ideological contlicts, the world is pitted against poverty and forms of  discrimination that jeopardize human dignity. Our Organization must therefore help to identify and explain those  causes and to offer appropriate solutions. It is cssential to put an end to illiteracy and improve the coverage and  quality of education to raise the living standards of our peoples.
(2.3) In this context, we must eradicate every type of discrimination and likewise heed the pcoples calling out  for recognition of their identity and respect for thcir religion, their customs, their laquage and ultimatcly their  sovereignty. not only territorial but also spiritual, in the context of the United Nations Year for Tolerance.
(2.5) Technological progrcss has helped peoples and cultures to build up their knowledge of each other in a  growing global continuum. As a result of instant communication we share, for the first timc, a common and  simultaneous history. But it is also the case that these benefits are still distributed inequitably. In this connection,  UNESCO is indisputably a forum for dialogue hetween the States and between our pcoples. Only in this forum  Will it he possible to consolidate those intercultural ties which, from tolerance of others, develop into positive  appreciatton of cultural and ethnie differences to achieve the new culture of peace. In this common endeavour  Bolivia has hçen, is and Will be a loyal and permanent member of this Organization.  cw In the last two years the Government and people of Bolivia have initiated a series of transformations  based on our age-old traditions and prompted hy a profound commitment to change, substantially developing our  rich multicultural heritage. Three programmes are under way: educational reform. Citizen involvement. ad  capitalization of the main State enterprises.
(2.7) Under the capitalization scheme, national or fore& investors do not buy the enterprises with payment  for the assets just going into the national coffers, as in the case of mere privatization. The difference lies in the  input of new technology, managerial capacity and fresh capital through the issue of new nhares up to SO per cent  of the total value of the capitalized enterprises. The other SO per cent Will be distributed to Bolivians of legal age  through pension funds subject to individual capitalization. This is a form of democratization of capital since over  a third of Bolivia’s GDP Will be transferred, by means of shares, to the pension fund. This process Will he the  greatest distribution of wealth to the poorest social sectors in the country’s entire history. This novel capitalization  programme makes for success in another two ma.jor programmes: Citizen involvement and educational reform.
(2.8) The starting-point for the educational reform is the hasic recopnition that Bolivia is a multi-ethnie and  multicultural society. Such recognition ends a form of unjust cultural oppression that condemned two-thirds of  Bolivian children to learning to read and write in a language other than their mother tangue. Today, with the  educational reform under way, the boys and girls of my country are being educated in their own language, and are  learning Spanish as their second language. This consolidates and develops their cultural identity and a legitimate  self-esteem, breaking with five centuries of cultural oppression and of silence.
(2.9) Furthermore, Bolivia’s educational reform is intended to improve the quality of primary education and  extend its coverage to the entire country in order to bring down thc high rates of illiteracy. In a subsequent phase  it Will seek to extend the coverage of secondary education. Meanwhile, alongside this, programmes are heing  promoted for the sake of better secondary education, teacher training and higher education.
(2.10) Mr President, 1 should like through you to thank the Director-General for assisting Bolivia by settinp up  a special committee to co-ordinate the c»-operation of UNESCO and its Member States in our educational reform.
(2.11) Citizen involvement is the third programme of change. It consists in the legal recognition of aIl existing  grass-roots organizations in the districts of our cities and in indigenous and peasant communities. It also includes  the redistribution of financial resources from thc national coffers in accordance with the number of inhabitants to  over 300 large, medium-sized and small urban-rural municipalities. These municipalities take charge of the  planning and management of basic services in education, health, culture and sport. The local people themselves  are now empowered to administer the funds and earmark them for public works whose priority and quality they  themselves determine. This enormous democratic endeavour gives practical expression to radical dccentralization  and makes the population better able to decide upon its future, something it was denied during centuries of social  exclusion and discrimination.
(2.12) The indigenous peoples of Bolivia are the main heneficiaries of these changes. The International Decade  devoted by the United Nations to the development of the world’u indigenous people is therefore a wholesome  stimulus in this respect. There are some 20 or SO million of us. indigenous people living, wnrking and dreaming  of a hetter world, confident that we shall ail movc on from word to deed SO that we may, to paraphrase Federico  Mayor, avoid ‘tomorrow always heing too late’. Since 1994, Bolivia has therefore defined itself, hy dint of its  Constitution, as ‘free. independent, sovereign, multiethnic and multicultural’. This legal recognition is also  reflected by an incipient increase in the representation of indigenous peoples in high public office and the gradua1  assumption of govcrnmental responsibilities.
(2.13) Mr President, distinguished delegates, it is our wish that this trend should be extended to recognition of  the same right as regards participation in the governing bodies of the international community.
(2.14) Mr President, 1 must now refer to an important issue for international opinion as a whole. and that is  drug trafficking. This scourgc affects practically a11 countries. Some as producers, others as transit routes.  producers of chemical precursors, and perhaps a11 as consumers. My country, within the Rio Group. the Ihero-  American nations and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countricî, has proposed calling a world conference against  illicit trafficking in drugs in order to brace ourselves for the struggle, updating and revitalizing the policies agreed  upon in the 1988 Vienna Convention.
(2.15) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on hehalf of the Governmçnt and people of Bolivia 1 wish to  express our gratitude for the rccognition accorded to the cities of Sucre and Potosi, together with the Jesuit  Missions of Chiquitos, as components of the cultural heritage of humanity. We are confident that we Bolivians  will very soon sharc with the nations of the world responsibility for preserving the heritage of the age-old temple  city of Tiwanaku, the historic fortress of Samaipata and, as a part of the natural heritage, the highest navigable  lake in the world, Lake Titicaca, which WC share with our sister republic, thc Republic of Peru. TO tel1 you a  secret, Mr President, 1 mysclf was first hathed on birth with the waters of this beautiful lake.
(2.16) Mr President, in expressing our gratitude for the estahlishment of a UNESCO office in Bolivia, we are  confident that we shall see an extension of c«-opcrative programmes and projects in the fields of competence of  the Organization. In the persons of the President of the General Conference and the Director-General, 1 thank you,  distinguished representatives of the Memher States of UNESCO, for this cordial opportunity to tel1 you something
413    of Bolivian life and our country’s active participation in the building of a world of peace and greater solidarity  Thank you very much indeed.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. 1 would like once again to express our deep gratitude to you.  Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to take leave of the Vice-President of Bolivia, before we pursue our work this  afternoon. Please remain seated while the Vice-President is leaving the hall. Thank you very much.  (The meeting is suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumes at 3.35 p.m.)  ALLOCUTION DE M. JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, PRESIDENT DE  LA COMMISSION MONDIALE DE LA CULTURE ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT  ADDRESS BY MR JAVIER PÉREZ DE CUÉLLAR, PRESIDENT OF  THE WORLD COMMISSION ON CULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT  DISCURSO DEL Sr. JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR, PRESIDENTE DE  LA COMISION MUNDIAL DE CULTURA Y DESARROLLO  BI->lCTYrIJIEI-IME r-HA IIEPECA AE KY3JIbRPA, IIPEACEAATEJIX  BCEMMPHOfi KOMMCCMM n0 KYJIbTYPE M PA3BMTMIO  L@.JlJ ZakJ~ QUAI &IWI ii& &J +g g3 jd+r JA& &Lu Lb  ~%~4~~~~@~~È~ Javier Perez de Cuellar fi&t#%
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Distinguished delegates, we Will re-open the meeting by listening to the address by the President of the  World Commission on Culture and Development, Mr Pérez de Cuéllar. It is my privilege to extend a most  cordial welcome to you, Sir, on behalf of this twenty-eighth session of the General Conference.
4.2 After reading t.he report of the Commission, Oltr Creative Diversky yesterday (as we were graced with  a day off, 1 had time to read it), a persona1 conclusion came to my mind. And 1 Will try to express that in a few  words.
4.3 How invisible and intangible is the dividing line between culture, in the broadest sense, and  dcvelopment, which obviously goes beyond thc economic aspect alone - a point made very strongly in your  Report. There are. of course, no barriers between culture and development. Culture affects development and  vicr verso. The sophistication and intricacy of tbe process produce myriad effects, unlimited in time or space,  which feed upon each other. The complexity of this relationship confïrms that no linear or uniform patterns cari  be imposed upon cither cultural life or the development process. If such a pattern were to be imposed, the result  would be reductive and futile. Since attitudes, behaviour and ideas hinge on the history and essence of each  nation. only creativity - in a11 its diversity and intensity - cari promote a lively and sustainable common welfàre  and individual empowerment, as has bcen said in this vcry interesting report by your Commission.
4.4 These considerations bring me back to the ethical mission of UNESCO about which we also talked  during thr visit of the Vice-President of Bolivia. Its universality makes it imperative that it promote a global  consciousncss capable bath of acceptin g diversity or pluralism as a common paradigm and of transcending  particular interesls - while at the same time respecting democratic values.
4.5 Be assured, Mr President, that your message Will be listened to with the utmost interest. Mr Pérez de  Cuéllar, 1 am very happy to give you the tloor.
5.1 Mr PÉREZ DE CUÉLLAR (President of the World Commission on Culture and Development):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, it is with a sense of fulfïlment and hope that 1 corne before you today to present Chu Creative  Diversify * the Report of the World Commission on Culture and Development. 1 shall be brief, for the agenda of  your session does not include a discussion of our Report. Indeed, how could it, since the original English  version, together with tbe French translation, was delivered only two days ago, and you have only summary  versions in the other working languages of the General Conference.
5.2 The value of this presentation is above a11 a symbolic one, in this fiftieth anniversary year of the  founding of the United Nations. Yet it has a practical purpose too, since it allows me to clarify the nature of our  Report, to point out what it is not, and to make an earnest appeal for the widest possible follow-up debate in the  months and years to corne. That debate should be a prelude to new decisions and real action by UNESCO, the
13  United Nations and many of its Specialized Agencies, other intergovernmental, and non-governmental bodies  and governments and tbeir partners in civil society.
5.3 In view of your heavy agenda 1 would invite you, Mr President, on behalf of my fellow Commissioners,  not just as a courtesy to us but also as a matter of effïciency, to read this Report in more favourable  circumstances than the hustle and bustle of this Conference. You have decided to hold a round-table on the  Report next week, and 1 welcome this as a preliminary general discussion. A careful and in-depth reading is  called for if you are to do full justice to our efforts. This is vital to the process of wide and open consultation  envisaged four years ago by the General Conference itself.
5.4 Our Report has been prepared first and foremost for govemments and the United Nations system. It  should also be discussed by many other actors in your societies: academia, non-govemmental organizations, the  vohmtary sector, private foundations and the socially responsible corporate sector. It cari only be acted upon - as  a11 global issues must today be acted upon - in a spirit of partnership. This is a point to which my colleagues  and 1 are deeply committed. It could not have been otherwise, given me fact that we were an independent  Commission serving a world community which is becoming increasingly aware - as President Vaclav Havel  reminded us in his recent speech to the United Nations General Assembly - that our system of global  governance must be further opened and enlarged.
5.5 1 must stress that word ‘independent’. Our independence governed the manner in which we worked. It  deeply influenced the approaches we adopted and the kind of Report we have produced. After spending many  years in officia1 life, fïrst as a diplomat for my country and then as Secretary-General of the United Nations, 1  personally found this experience new and invigorating. 1 am deeply grateful to have been able to work with  such a distinguished group of men and women, who were all determined to reflect freely, question honestly,  and give hard replies whenever necessary. Had we been involved in an intergovernmental process, we might  have avoided tough choices and our Report might well have pleased everybody.
5.6 Ladies and gentlemen, such was not our ambition. As we sought to think clearly and boldly on issues  that had already been identifïed by others, including the General Conference, we realized that much of the  accepted wisdom was too conventional or simply too faim-hearted. We saw at once that there was a wide gulf  between thought and action, and that we could not possibly provide ready-made solutions to close the gap. We  could, however, help to generate a deeper and broader debate around an idea that was widely shared: since the  cultures of humankind are the very basis of human development, the notion of culture cari no longer be  dissociated from the socio-political and economic context of our time.
5.7 As 1 have pointed out in my Foreword to the Report, it could not be a treatise, nor a work of original  research, nor again a handbook on cultural affairs in the world. Because of the enormous range and volume of  issues involved, we could not possibly address them a11 and yet remain concise. Hence even the ten narrative  chapters have had to be selective: they deal with some of the most critical issues of our time, issues that embody  particularly well the development challenges to which culture holds the key. In every case, we have explored  the policy implications. We have looked for ways to rethink our current approaches, to provide tools for  analysis informed by a long-term perspective. Such an analysis is by definition dispassionate, but it serves a  passionate commitment to our creative diversity here and now: in adapting to unprecedented change, in  building the transition between the pasts that inspire or haunt us and the futures that are still beyond the reach  of our imagination.
5.8 Turning now to the recommendations contained in our ‘International Agenda’, here too, we felt that it  would be far more realistic to limit tbe options than to attempt to list a11 the desirable actions imaginable. The  Commission has accordingly chosen to recommend a small number of actions to stimulate and motivate people  a11 over the world, initially by generating lively debate. This should launch a process in which principles and  procedures that are commonplace within nations cari be extended to the international arena. And they should  create a forum for the elaboration of an international consensus on central issues related to culture and  development.
5.9 This ‘International Agenda’ is a tore programme around which UNESCO cari reassert its leadership by  helping the international community move closer to processes in which development cari be built around people  rather than people around development. 1 cannot of course list a11 of this Agenda here, but let me cite just two  examples. The first action proposed, that is the drafting of an independent Annual World Report on Culture  and Development, challenges UNESCO to innovate by forging a powerful new mol: a world survey that is at  once objective, visionary and unflinchingly honest. It would highlight good practice at local, national and
415    international levels, as well as expose bad practice and unacceptable behaviour. Such a work of reference would  undoubtedly contribute to fuller and broader discussion of crucial cultural issues. It could also contribute to  positive change by influencing international public opinion and serving as a testing ground for new policy  ideas.
5.10 The proposed composite initiative on cultural rights would bring the international community closer to  a truly proactive stance concerning rights which are fundamental to proper practice in the field of culture. Even  though massive breaches of human rights have often been motivated by cultural considerations, persecuted  individuals and groups have yet to lïnd adequate recourse through existing frameworks of human rights  protection. The time is indeed ripe for some sort of International Code of Conduct on Culture to be collectively  delïned and enforced, albeit after a careful assessment of existing standards of international law in this domain.
5.11 Al1 of our recommendations should be seen as a series of beginnings, not as a series of ends. A report  is net, and should net be, an end in itself: it is just one of the means to encourage appropriate action. Many  pcople may bave, however, expected a wonder-work: a definitive resolution of the extremely complex  relationships between culture and development. Rather than provide such a panacea, we have, 1 believe,  responded better to the needs and conditions of our time, SO complex, SO changing and SO uncertain, by asking a  multitude of questions instead of providing a multitude of answers.
5.12 None the less our reflections are buoyant with hope, for we are convinced that one certainty is not only  permitted but required. That certainty is faith in humanity’s cdtural capacities for imagination and creativity,  l’aith in our creative diversity. Our gaze is turned towards the future - to the new millennium - rather than  backwards on the turbulent end of one of the most troubled centuries humankind has ever known.  (The speaker continues in French)
5.13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, au printemps 1993, la Commission entamait ses  travaux dans une conjoncture mondiale riche des promesses et des possibilités que laissaient entrevoir les portes  nouvellement ouvertes, mais aussi grosse d’incertitudes. Des cadres d’action plus larges s’offraient à tous les  peuples. Mais pour la plupart d’entre eux, le systeme mondial apparaissait de plus en plus déséquilibré, flou et  incohérent, de sorte que beaucoup se tournaient vers la culture comme vers un garde-fou et un refuge.
5.14 Les affrontements de la guerre froide avaient longtemps masqué une multitude de revendications et de  tensions locales. Aucune population ne peut prétendre pouvoir être immunisée contre le risque de s’enfermer  entre les murs étroits d’une identité partisane, ce qui peut toujours alimenter une nouvelle vague de  confrontations entre communautés ethniques, religieuses et nationales. La logique du rejet et le “narcissisme de  la petite difference” risquent par ailleurs de menacer la paix et la sécurité internationales, de compromettre à la  fois la croissance économique et l’harmonie sociale, de bafouer la dignite de la personne humaine, d’entamer la  foi de chaque société en ses propres ressources et de mettre en péril la diversité des cultures, indispensable au  bien-être de l’espèce humaine.
5.15 Accepter cela voulait dire tolérer l’intolérable. C’est pourquoi la Commission a entrepris ses travaux,  consciente de sa mission. Chacun de ses membres était convaincu que, comme la paix et la démocratie,  l’élargissement des possibilités offertes aux individus ne pouvait que s’inspirer de l’éthique et des valeurs qui  façonnent le comportement quotidien des peuples. Chacun était attaché au respect du pluralisme, au respect à la  fois des cultures - de leur Cgale dignité, de leur diversité, de leur forces diverses - et des différentes voies du  développement. Chacun était pénétré du principe de l’équité, qui doit être mis en oeuvre tout autant ici et  maintenant qu’au bénéfice des générations futures. Chacun reconnaissait l’universalité des aspirations à un sort  meilleur et au progrès, en même temps que la multiplicité des approches possibles pour réaliser ces objectifs.  Chacun était convaincu que la culture occupait une place centrale parmi les facteurs expliquant différents  modèles de changement et qu’elle ttait l’essence même du développement durable, tant nos attitudes et nos  styles de vie déterminent nos manieres de gérer l’ensemble de nos ressources non renouvelables.
5.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, le rapport dense que nous presentons au,jourd’hui est le resultat de deux  années et demie d’efforts collectifs soutenus. En fait, notre façon de faire s’inspire de la manière dont procède  l’UNESCO, tant les idées et les visions que mes collègues et moi-même prbentons dans cc document sont le  fruit d’une coopération intellectuelle à l’échelle universelle provenant de centaines d’hommes et de femmes à  travers le monde.
5.17 Aujourd’hui, je ressens une profonde satisfaction d’avoir eu la possibilité de participer à cette demarche  particulièrement enrichissante, qui a été rendue possible grâce à la généreuse contribution financière qui nous a  été accordée principalement par les gouvernements de l’Allemagne, du Canada, du Danemark, de la Finlande,  de la Norvège, des Pays-Bas, de la Suède et de la Suisse. Je remercie par ailleurs la Conférence générale et le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, M. Federico Mayor, ainsi que l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et le  Secrétaire général de l’Organisation, M. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, pour la confiance dont ils ont fait preuve a  l’égard de mes douze collègues et à mon égard.
5.18 Je suis également très reconnaissant à mes collègues de la Commission pour leur contribution à nos  travaux. Trois d’entre eux, Mme Chie Nakane du Japon, M. Yoro Fall du Sénégal, et M Ole-Henrik Magga de  la Norvège, sont ici avec nous aujourd’hui. Avec leurs neuf collègues, ils ont généreusement donné leur temps,  leur imagination et leur énergie à notre réflexion commune ; ce sont eux qui sont les véritables artisans du  rapport, dont l’élaboration doit également beaucoup à l’éminent économiste, M. Paul Streeten, qui a participé à  la rédaction finale de notre texte. Ce sont toutes ces personnes qui ont permis à l’ouvrage que nous vous  présentons aujourd’hui d’être un tout qui est plus que la somme des parties ; c’est un exploit assez rare pour etre  signalé.
5.19 Chacun des membres de la Commission a participé à nos travaux à titre personnel, apportant à la tâche  sa propre formation intellectuelle et sa propre expérience de la vie. Chacun d’eux aurait choisi d’autres mots et  un éclairage différent s’ils avaient dû rédiger seuls notre rapport. Tous sont cependant d’accord sur le fond et  sur les orientations qui y figurent.
5.20 Je tiens à mettre en évidence tout particulièrement le rôle du Directeur général de l’UNESCO et dc ses  collègues, au Siège comme sur le terrain ; bon nombre d’entre eux nous ont communiqué leur enthousiasme  pour la tache complexe dont nous avions la charge et nous ont offert une contribution intellectuelle,  administrative et technique de tout premier ordre. Je voudrais égaleme.nt souligner l’importante contribution du  Sous-Directeur général pour la culture, Mme Lourdes Arizpe, qui a siégé au sein de la Commission jusqu’à l’été
1994, avant d’être appelée aux fonctions qu’elle occupe actuellement.
5.21 Nous sommes aussi très reconnaissants aux gouvernements d’un grand nombre d’Etats membres, à  leurs commissions nationales et à leurs délégations permanentes auprès de l’UNESCO. Ils nous ont tous apporte  leur soutien généreux, tout en respectant strictement notre indépendance, Nous les en remercions, comme nous  remercions toutes les institutions du système des Nations Unies, les organisations gouvernementales ct non  gouvernementales, les agences nationales de développement, les organismes et fondations culturels et  scientifiques qui nous ont apporté leur appui financier et leur concours intellectuel.
5.22 Enfin, notre rapport n’aurait pas vu le jour sans la précieuse contribution de M. Raj Isar et de sa  remarquable équipe qui ont formé le secrétariat de la Commission et qui ont permis d’aboutir au cours d’une  année décisive à l’heureuse conclusion que nous connaissons aujourd’hui. Qu’ils en soient tous remerciés.  (L’orateur poursuit en espagnol)
(5.23) We members of the Commission are proud to present to you the outcome of our work, recognizing of  course that this presentation constitutes in itself neither an end nor an intermediate stage but a beginning. In the  coming days and weeks the Director-General and 1 myself Will send this document to a11 governments and also to  governmental and non-governmental institutions, private foundations, research institutions, universities and  intergovernmental bodies, in short to a11 social forces interested in matters of culture and development and willing  to work in this area in the light of the major guidelines and recommendations featuring in our report. In addition,  the document Will. be published and distributed commercially in the greatest possible number of languages. We  members of the Commission shall likewise be ready, in the months ahead, to take part in conferences and  seminars intended to foster debate on the various issues addressed in our report.
(5.24) Our work Will no doubt give rise to disputes and reservations, which is only to be expected when  reflection is undertaken on complex or diftïcult questions that crucially affect the future. TO prompt reflection and  encourage dialogue is our very function. Let us hope that debate on our report Will eventually produce solutions to  the problems in question and that such solutions Will accommodate the diversity of our cultures. Let us be  creative SO that harmonious development may be the hope and the recompense of each and every human being.  Thank you very much.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Pérez de Cuéllar, for this very comprehensive and interesting address,  giving us the background to the Report. As you Will all remember, and as Mr Pérez de Cuéllar himself  remarked, a Round Table on the Report is scheduled for Saturday, 11 November, in this hall. It Will be a very  preliminary exchange of views, but one during which Mr Pérez de Cuéllar himself Will be able to be with us,  not SO much to be subjected to a lot of questions, but rather to listen and to interact with us.
6.2 Once again, 1 thank him very much for coming here today to present to the General Conference the  results of the Commission’s very exhaustive work. 1 now give the floor to tbe Director-General who would like  to add a few words.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, 1 would oniy like, as Director-General of UNESCO, to recognize and to underscore the  importance of the work that has been done since the moment when - on the initiative of Sweden, supported by  other countries - this joint United Nations-UNESCO venture began. You Will recall that, at the outset, we  decided that the best means of realizing this initiative would be by establishing a commission to debate and to  reflect on the very important interaction between culture and development. Consequently, 1 would like us a11 to  fully acknowledge, as you have done already, Mr President, the work accomplished by Mr Pérez de Cuéllar and  a11 the members of this independent Commission.
7.2 André Gide once said that if you lïnd a good title, you cari forget about the contents. This is not, of  course, the case witb the present report, but 1 would like to emphasize how good 1 consider its title to be,  reflecting exactly the intention of the promoters of this United Nations-UNESCO Commission. Let me try to  explain what these words - Our Creative Diversdy - mean to me.
7.3 ‘Oui-’ has a global scope that is absolutely indispensable when we deal with a theme of this nature,  which concerns a quality that belongs to a11 of us. ‘Creative’ draws our attention to a distinctive capacity of a11  human beings, the capacity to create, to invent, to innovate, which is indeed ours, ‘Diversity’ reminds us that,  from the biological point of view, the diversity of a11 living beings is complete, SO that we cari also talk about  their uniqueness. Their uniqueness implies their inlïnite diversity, and this - in the case of human beings - has  socio-cultural aspects. Therefore, let me congratulate the Commission not only on the contents of its report but  also on its very expressive title.
7.4 Let us look, for an instant, at the cultural evolution of the past ten years. Ten years ago, our concern  was with the most epidermic - albeit very important - facet of world culture, with aesthetics and with the  capacity to produce cultural goods. Then, suddenly, culture was perceived as very deeply rooted; suddenly there  was this leap, this jump, whereby culture became a topmost priority on the political agenda of countries -  because we discovered that underlying this epidermic - aesthetic facet lay the ethical aspects of culture, and this  brought us to the very tore, to the very centre of its meaning.
7.5 It was the same with development. Development was, at the outset - much the same number of years  ago - a concept that had only the meaning of economic growth. And then, suddenly, we realized that there was  much more to it than that; and that there was only one protagonist and one benelïciary of developmental  actions - the human being.
7.6 Thus, we have witnessed the evolution of two concepts: in the case of culture, the movement from  aesthetics to ethics; and in the case of development, the long progression that we have often referred to here  from the notions of integral, endogenous and - very important - sustainable development to arrive finally at  ‘human development’ or ‘development with a human face’.
7.7 In this connection, and in connection with the interaction between development and culture, 1 would  like to emphasize, Mr President, one point which for me is extremely important - the matter of language: in  this respect, we must take a clear position; and 1 have been very attentive to what has been said by many  Ministers conceming the value from the cultural point of view, from the ethical point of view, of languages.  Languages - and let me stress this - are monuments of culture.
7.8 1 found, in Chapter 7 of the Commissions Report, a poem by the Sicilian poet, Ignazio Buttitta, born  in 1899, which says: ‘A people /becorne poor and enslaved/ when they are robbed of the tonguel left them by  their ancestors:/ they are lost forever’. We must take heed of that warning through practical measures in our  programme to ensure the protection of all languages. We have an immense role to play in safeguarding these  monuments, these concept& monuments, that represent the deepest aspects of most cultures.
7.9 Finally, Mr President, 1 would like to emphasize another aspect that 1 consider extremely important in  the interaction between culture and development from the practical point of view: the behavioural aspect. In the  final analysis, behaviour is the best reflection of the meaning of culture, because we are as we do, not as we say  what we are doing and what we feel. We must be coherent with our behaviour; and our behaviour is the result  of our culture, just as our culture fïnally is the manner in which we behave - and the product of our thoughts,  our experience, our imagination, our beliefs, our innovations, our inventions, our fantasies and our wishes.  These are all expressed in our everyday behaviour. And this everyday behaviour is what counts from the point  of view of what in UNESCO we want. We want peaceful behaviour, non-violent behaviour, behaviour in a  tïamework of freedom and of justice.
7.10 There is a very important quotation, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this Report. It is a  quotation from the Secretary-General of the United Nations which says that ‘As development becomes  imperative, as we approach the turn of this Century, we are faced with the necessity of giving new meaning to  the Word’. And this is what 1 consider, Mr President of the Commission, that you have achieved in this  excellent report. You have provided food for our thoughts, nourishment for our debate. Now, it Will be for the  National Commissions, the associations of intellectuals, the academies, a11 those that need this kind of  inspiration, to debate and to agree or disagree with the views of the Commission; but 1 think that the purposes  for which it was established have been achieved, and that now we cari give some new meanings to some words,  restore the meanings of some words, or give to these words their correct meaning. That is, tïnally, the objective  of the Organization that 1 have the honour to serve. Thank you.
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. On behalf of the General Conference, 1 would like to  thank you, Mr Perez de Cuellar once more, and to express to you and to your colleagues in the Commission our  deep appreciation of the excellent achievement you have presented to us. We look forward to working with it,  because obviously, as you said, this is not just the delivery of a book - this is the start of a new process in  gaining further understanding of the various aspects of culture and development.
8.2 Distinguished delegates, Will you please once again remain seated while Mr Pérez de Cuéllar leaves  the hall.  (Applause)  (The meeting is suspended at 4.10 p.m. and resumes at 4.15 p.m.)
419    DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  Ol3CYXJI,EHME BOIIPOCOB OSIII@~ IIOJIMTBKM (npo~on~emre)  (($2) LWI Li+Jl Lilik.0  ,#@%F$& ( $2 1
9. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we Will resume our work. As you have already been informed, there are still a  number of speeches in the general policy debate: two addresses by representatives of Member States and five  addresses by representatives of non-governmental organizations. The lïrst speaker on my list is His Excellency  Mr Driss Khalil, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Morocco.
(10.1) Mr KHALIL (Morocco) (Translation from the Arabie):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  it is for me a great honour to take the fluor today in the distinguished setting of UNESCO House, which has been  and remains a meeting-place where ideas converge and from which they emerge and are disseminated, a place  radiating maturity, dynamism and harmonious order, SO much SO that the building itself has become part of the  architectural heritage, and is visited as the ob.ject of a cultural pilgrimage by numerous people, including  scientists and researchers.
(10.2) TO begin with, 1 should like to congratulate you, Mr President, in my persona1 capacity and on behalf of  my government and delegation, regarding the confidence shown in you by this assembly in choosing you as its  President. This is a great responsibility, particularly since this session Will signal the beginning of the celebration  of a distinguished and resplendent anniversary, the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of UNESCO. Despite the  heavy burden this responsibility represents, 1 am certain that you Will shoulder it in a most successful fashion. 1  should also like to express to the Chairperson of the Executive Board, the Director-General of UNESCO and his  assistants our great appreciation for their excellent efforts and prompt action.
(10.3) Mr President, until recently, education, science and culture were considered as no more than adjuncts to  the economy, or even as the residue or complications thereof, while the economy took pride of place, SO much SO  that it appeared at times to form a goal in itself: the sole purpose of promoting the economy was to develop,  expand and deepen it. The vision then changed somewhat, and education, science and culture were declared to be  an investment whose return would bccome apparent only after some time. This restored a measure, albeit relative,  of consideration to these three dimensions, which were thus integrated into the economy, of which they became a  part and to which they contributed, without, however, becoming a veritable focus of attention or an ob.jective on a  par with other objectives that interacts with them within the framework of an integral cultural system. And  finally, in today’s new era, we have reverted to the true goal of a11 development, and indeed of every civilization,  which is human beings.
(10.4) This new trend is a veritable revolution. a new course and mode of conduct which have had a clear  impact on our educational ideas and our scientific and cultural concepts. The world is today undergoing  increasingly rapid developments and facing numerous and diverse challenges which have prompted it, once again  in its long history, to ask that simple, elementary question: where to? Indeed, where are we going, what do we  want, and for whom? If human society is to answer these questions in word and in deed, it is most certainly  necessary for it, in its comportment, to seek to favour rationality and to reconcile the achievement of short-term  goals with legitimate aspirations, taking tare not to jeopardize the wcll-being of future generations, which ensure  continuity. However, that cari only be brought about under a societal order which rejects narrow immediate goals  and malevolent, odious hatred, but rather strives to promote coexistence and mutual recognition, and seeks to be  guided by its own values, while not ignoring those of others.
(10.5) This requires us to search for new and more appropriate approaches, whether with regard to science and  its dissemination and uses, education and educational curricula, culture and cultural policies, or communication
421    and communication techniques. This alternative project, regardless of its specificities, needs a broad foundation  based on a purposeful and balanced type of education which seeks to preserve the continuity and development of  human intellectual creativity, and a culture which aspires to diversity and openness.
(10.6) Morocco has embarked upon a review of its educational principles with a view to reforming them and  replacing those which are in need of replacement; this review is being carried out in a manner which affects more  directly than in the past the structures, programmes and goals of education. While not wishing to deviate from the  overall ob.jectives that we set ourselves at the dawn of independence and which have continued to enjoy  unanimity up till the present, we now feel compelled to adapt these principles to modern requirements and, more  especially, to the requirements of the future. For education and related matters do not take place in a vacuum or  on a lonely desert island; on the contrary. Looking at the heart of education, we iïnd that a number of agreements  bave been concluded between Morocco and UNESCO.
(10.7) In conclusion, it only remains to pray to God Almighty that He may spread peace a11 over the world, and  consolidate peace in Palestine, in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a11 other regions where there have been or still  are tensions. Our work at UNESCO’s sessions and with regard to its plans and efforts in favour of education,  science and culture constitutes an indisputable and indispensable contribution to peace-building and the  promotion of peace and those mainstays of peace that are freedom, justice and dignity, therebypromoting a  culture of peace which may banish the spectre of war and armed conflict, and giving precedence to mutual  understanding and dialogue. May God grant us success and lead us along the straight path. Peace and the Mercy  of God be upon you.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. 1 now give the floor to Mr Jaak Kangilaski, Chairman of the  Estonian National Commission for UNESCO.
12.1 Mr KANGILASKI (Estonia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Estonian Delegation 1 wish to congratulate you, Mr Krogh, most warmly on your election to preside over tbe  twenty-eightb session of the General Conference celebrating tbe fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and  UNESCO.
12.2 These 50 years bave been a very special period in the history of the world. In Estonia, this is a period  comprising two completely different eras. After independence in 1918, a European educational system was  established in Estonia and a rich cultural life flourished. In 1940, Estonia lost its independence and became  part of the totalitarian regime. The ensuing years, disastrous in many ways, were nevertheless paradoxical in  their influence on culture. In order to keep cultural life and education under control, both stick and carrot were  used. Imprisonment and deportation being one side of cultural policy, the system, on the other hand, favoured  an increase in the number of artists and scientists. After the gloomiest period, by the end of the 1950% our  intellectuals managed to some extent, step by step, to free themselves of the chain of officia1 ideology. While  enjoying relative economic and social safety, they also found some possibilities for self-expression. SO it could  be said that escaping the stick, they reached the carrot. Thus? despite tbe diffïcult times, Estonian culture and  education were major tools in preserving national identity and were highly esteemed by the whole nation.
12.3 Mr President, departing for a moment from my text, 1 would like to say that, since regaining our  independence in 1991, our cultural life has undergone radical change. Ideological and political pressures have  disappeared but, at the same time, State subsidies bave diminished. Both educational and cultural structures are  learning to survive in the market economy.
12.4 it is with great satisfaction mat today, celebrating the Iïftieth anniversary of the United Nations and  UNESCO, we are witnessing stabilized democracy and freedom of speech in Estonia. Particularly in the year  for Tolerance, we are happy to report that violence has been avoided in solving complicated problems in the  process of transition; that peace and tolerance have been built between different language groups and that  harmonious interaction has been promoted. A culture ofpeace, as Mr Federico Mayor has stressed, is first and  foremost mordit.y in action. It is this morality in action we need in order to construct a living environment that  is consistent with the notion of human dignity. It is a great pleasure for me to note that through focusing on the  preservation of cultural and natural heritage, as well as cultural diversity on one hand and tbe free flow of ideas  by word and image on the other, UNESCO bas succeeded in creating a balance in order to avoid cultural  imperialism. Estonia hopes that the progress of technology and development of multimedia networks Will  widen the scope of knowledgç, while maintaining the originality of individuals, social groups, and nations.
12.5 TO have a national culture for 1 million native speakers could be regarded as a luxury. Having all-level  education in one’s native language is rather expensive. In Estonia, for example, 7.4 per cent of GDP is spent on  education (only 0.8 per cent of GDP for military expenditure). Obviously, there are smaller countries in  UNESCO than Estonia, but many of them use a more widespread language, particularly in the field of  education and science. However, every language has a unique mode of reflecting and interpreting the world. It  may be interesting to note, for example, that the Estonian language, dating back many thousands of years, is  non-sexist by its very nature; there are no genders in it. This is reflected also in the fact that throughout history,  the role of women in Estonia has been signifïcant, particularly in maintaining the language and culture. Hence,  we wholeheartedly support UNESCO’s ideal of women’s participation in all aspects of political, economic,  social and cultural life. Estonia holds the opinion that providing access for women to education at a11 levels  helps to maintain cultural identity. We also strongly support the ethical requirement enshrined in the  Constitution of UNESCO, feeling that thepreservation of cuZturuZ and Zinguistic diversity is as crucial to the  survival of humanity as biological diversity is to the survival of the planet.
12.6 In transition to a democratic society, Estonia has been relatively successful. Nevertheless, many  problems still remain to be solved. Our rich cultural heritage, many landmarks of whicb we share with other  nations, like tbe various manor houses of the German nobility, are in need of preservation and restoration for a  new function. Moreover, the medieval city of Tallinn, which has preserved its unique outlook despite its state of  caducity, as well as the rare nature reserves in Estonia, are in need of international assistance. This is where  UNFSCO’s role of drawing attention to the World Heritage sites is of vital importance. Cultural tourism,  esteeming the variety of forms of cultural expression, contributes to international understanding and  harmonious interaction between cultural identities. For the same purpose, a UNESCO Chair of tangible  heritage in Tartu University in Estonia would enable us to participate more actively in international intellectual  co-operation.
12.7 It would be impossible to speak of UNFSCO’s ethical mission without noting the sensitivity as well as  distrust of post-communist societies regarding certain words. As noted by one distinguished delegate, the  noblest words used in UNESCO sometimes remain too abstract. One cannot agree more. Civic society destroyed  by a totalitarian regime cannot be restored or established by eloquence alone. Revitalizing essential concepts  that have been devalued and reduced to empty slogans would be a true mission and responsibility of the  Member States. Solidarity, for example, one of the key words of UNESCO, cannot be learned without real  human interaction and participation in democratic social life. And slogans cannot be turned into ethical norms  without unity of word and action.
12.8 In this connection, Estonia particularly appreciates the positive tendencies within UNESCO towards  conciseness, clarity and flexibility, reflected in the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001. This confïrms  our belief in the vitality and progressiveness of UNESCO on the threshold of its fïftieth anniversary.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Kangilaski. 1 now give the floor to Mr Leszek Kosinski, Secretary-General  of the International Social Science Council (ISSC). Mr Kosinski.
14.1 Mr KOSINSKI (International Social Science Council):  Sefior Director General de la UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that 1 bring you  the greetings and best wishes of the social science community of the world. If this sounds rather pretentious, let  me explain that the International Social Science Council which 1 have the privilege to represent, is a federation  of some 30 different international associations in different areas of social sciences (economics, sociology,  political science, demography) and many others. Our member associations jointly represent a vast network of  institutions and individuals whose main professional preoccupation is the study of the processes that shape our  contemporary society at a11 levels from global to local. We like to believe that we are addressing issues which  are of importance to individuals, nations, to States and indeed to the global community, and that we are doing it  with a sense of commitment, integrity and professional competence.
14.2 Our associations, of course, have their own programmes, in line with their professional interests and  professional competence. Our Council, on the other hand, in accordance with its statutory obligations, attempts  to foster and develop interdisciplinary projects. 1 am not going to bore you with details. Instead, 1 distributed a  little leaflet this morning, in which you cari Iïnd some information about our Council. However, 1 would like to  mention three programmes that we think are of importance:
423    One deals with the human aspects of global environmental change. We are trying to see to what extent  human activities cause or accelerate the change, and how humans react to it by both mitigation and  acijustment;  Another programme is concerned with poverty, that persistent social malaise which affects not only  poor countries but eats into the fabric of most affluent societies. We hope that the results of our  investigations Will contribute to developing better ways of dealing with this problem. In fact, our  colleagues who are involved in this programme did participate quite actively in a recent conference on  social development;  The third interdisciplinary programme is devoted to the scientifïc study of conflict early warning  systems. We would like to believe that by studying the conflicts, by looking for commonalities, a way  cari perhaps be found to offer better ways of understanding and, better still, to avoid or diffuse the  conflicts before they escalate.
14.3 Instead of going into further detail, let me just offer a few general remarks about our work. We believe  that our programmes deal with important contemporary issues on a global scale. Secondly, we try to look at  them using the tools developed by different disciplines. And the choice of partners is not limited to the social  and behavioural sciences, which are, of course, part of our Council, but in certain cases we try to reach the  natural sciences, since we believe that only by bridging the gap between the natural, social and behavioural  sciences, cari we advance our cause. Thirdly, we do not pretend to replace politicians, but we try to present  some policy-relevant conclusions and make them, if possible, relevant and available to decision-makers.  Fourthly, we use the limited resources kindly placed at our disposal by UNESCO, and multiply their effect by  generating additional funds and by relying on the commitment of thousands, literally thousands, of our  colleagues who labour in different parts of the world, often without proper material support. Finally, in our  endeavour, WC often relate to UNESCO’s own programme and try to work closely with UNESCO staff.
14.4 Mr President, in conclusion, 1 hope you Will agree with me that tbe ISSC does address the issues of  crucial importance to UNESCO and that, by using our own networks and our own means, we do contribute to  the realization of some objectives of this Organization.
14.5 We value our contacts with UNESCO, which by the way, go back to the time when our Council was  creatcd by a UNESCO resolution in 1952. We very much hope that our collaboration and mutual support Will  continue in the future.
1.7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Kosinski. The next speaker is Mr Raoul Chelikani, President of the  International Non-Governmental Organizations Standing Committee.
16.1 M. CHELIKANI (Comité permanent des ONG) :  Monsieur Ic Président de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif. Monsieur le Directeur genéral, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la fin de la guerre froide,  les grandes conférences internationales tenues sous l’égide des Nations Unies ont défini les priorités mondiales  majeures auxquelles l’ensemble des Etats souscrivent en prenant des engagements solennels. Simultanément,  ces conférences ont fait apparaître le rôle des organisations non gouvernementales. Cette évolution est-elle  rEv&trice d’un phénomène de société ? Dans l’émergence d’une conscience mondiale qui se cherche, quels  seront le rôle et la place des ONG au XXIe siècle ? Après quinze ans de présence militante à l’UNESCO,  comme président d’un organisme bénévole puis comme président du Comité permanent des ONG, je me  permets de vous faire part des observations de mes amis et de moi-même sur cette évolution en posant deux  questions : “Pourquoi les ONG ?” et “Comment travailler avec elles ?“.
16.2 Tout d’abord, pourquoi cette importance accrue des ONG ? Il me semble que dans un monde de plus en  plus complexe, l’Etat n’arrive plus à refléter ni à satisfaire toutes les aspirations de ses ressortissants. Ni l’Etat-  nation ni les organismes gouvernementaux ou intergouvernementaux ne parviennent à faire face aux problèmes  transnationaux qui s’aggravent, tels que le trafic de drogue, la criminalité, le terrorisme, la prolifération des  armes nucléaires, les maladies contagieuses, les catastrophes naturelles ou causées par l’homme. Plus que les  partis politiques souvent perçus comme des structures qui visent avant tout le pouvoir, les associations  désintéressées se font le porte-parole des sans voix. Les ONG constituent un formidable demultiplicateur pour  les actions sur le terrain. Outre qu’elles se substituent à l’Etat, elles conscientisent, innovent, participent et  vivent avec les populations. Leur concours est indispensable pour la solution de problèmes tels que 1’Cducation
13  de base, l’éducation pour la démocratie, la tolérance, les droits de l’homme, la promotion de la culture de la paix  et la dimension culturelle du développement.
16.3 En second lieu, si les ONG ont un rôle à jouer, comment les associer davantage à l’action entreprise ‘!  Justement, la même question se pose au sein de 1’ONU et des réformes sont en gestation au Conseil économique  et social. Quels nouveaux partenariats rechercher entre les ONG et les organisations nationales et  internationales ? Quelles modalités de coopération individuelle et collective adopter ? Comment mobiliser  encore davantage la société civile ?
16.4 La coopération entre l’UNESCO et les ONG est à promouvoir à un triple niveau. Au niveau national,  beaucoup reste à faire pour ouvrir davantage à la société civile les commissions nationales pour l’UNESCO.  Tout en préservant leur autonomie, les ONG remplissent une double mission : faire remonter à tous les stades  les informations sur la réalité du terrain et faire descendre le savoir-faire et toutes sortes de soutien. C’est aussi  à ce niveau que des relations horizontales doivent être nouées entre les ONG afin d’aboutir à des solutions  transdisciplinaires qui témoignent de leur engagement. Au niveau régional, les réunions de consultation  auxquelles il est actuellement procédé sont trop espacées dans le temps et leur suivi est trop insuffisant pour  être vraiment efficace. Créer de véritables réseaux d’ONG devrait être une priorité pour les bureaux régionaux  comme pour le Comité permanent. 11 faut enfin renforcer une structure internationale représentative des ONG  chargée d’une triple tâche : sensibiliser les ONG locales aux problèmes mondiaux ; conceptualiser les  problèmes de terrain et proposer des méthodes d’action ; permettre une expression organisée au sein de la  société civile mondiale et dialoguer avec les autres associations (I’ONG et les partenaires internationaux en vue  d’une prise en compte plus globale des problèmes,
16.5 C’est dans cet esprit que le Comité permanent des ONG s’est efforcé de travailler au cours de ces  dernières années. Concernant les nouvelles directives soumises à l’approbation de la Conférence générale,  j’admets que, sur un certain nombre de points, elles représentent une avancée significative dans le partenariat à  promouvoir entre l’UNESCO et les ONG. Toutefois, en pratique, beaucoup reste à faire pour renforcer ce  partenariat. En conclusion, je dirai que le Comité permanent doit lui aussi, pour sa part, intensifier ses efforts  dans ce sens. Souhaitons enfin que soit mieux reconnu le rôle qu’il joue en tant qu’organe de concertation  pluraliste et l’expression commune de l’ensemble des ONG. Je vous remercie.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next speaker on the list is Mr Daniel Monteux, Permanent Representativc  to UNESCO of the World Federation of Teachers’ Unions (FISE).
18.1 M. MONTEUX (Fédération internationale syndicale de l’enseignement - FISE) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués et observateurs, je souhaiterais tout d’abord m’associer pleinement aux  paroles que vient de prononcer M. Chelikani au nom de toutes les ONG. Je voudrais par ailleurs dire que la  Fédération internationale syndicale de l’enseignement, que j’ai l’honneur de représenter à l’UNESCO, est un  partenaire ancien et fidèle de l’Organisation. Elle regroupe une centaine d’organisations nationales, syndicales  ou professionnelles dans l’enseignement et la recherche, de l’école préélémentaire jusqu’aux universités, secteur  où nous sommes fortement présents. La très grande majorité de nos affiliés vivent et travaillent dans les pays  pauvres. De la sorte, nous occupons une place originale parmi les organisations professionnelles de l’éducation  et de la recherche qui contribue à leur pluralisme.
18.2 Je me limiterai à trois brèves remarques. Les personnels que nous représentons, de l’éducation  notamment, sont par nature en première ligne dans la mise en oeuvre des principaux objectifs de l’UNESCO.  Parce que leur rôle et leurs tâches font l’objet d’un bouleversement accéléré, l’amélioration de leurs conditions  de travail et de leur statut n’en revêt que plus d’importance, dans l’esprit même de laRecommandation  UNESCO-OIT de 1966, laquelle sera, nous l’espérons, complétée dès votre vingt-neuvième session par la  recommandation qui est en préparation sur la condition des enseignants du supérieur. La mise en oeuvre de tels  instruments devrait contribuer à combler le fossé qui continue d’exister dans de trop nombreux Etats entre les  affirmations officielles et la condition réelle qui est faite aux personnels de l’éducation et de la science.
18.3 Je voudrais souligner, avec ma deuxième remarque, que notre action en faveur des personnels est  indissolublement liée à notre engagement aux fins de transformer les systèmes éducatifs, de les transformer  dans un but précis : développer l’éducation pour tous, l’égalité des chances et la démocratie réelle, dans la  perspective de l’éducation permanente et d’une articulation plus forte avec le monde du travail. Ce sont les  ob.jectifs de l’UNESCO. Ce sont les nôtres sur le terrain.
18.4 Sur tous ces points, nous avons déjà beaucoup travaille avec l’UNESCO, avec peu de moyens matériels,  c’est vrai, mais avec des ressources humaines, qui sont plus que jamais disponibles pour intensifier ce  partenariat. Actifs dans la Consultation collective UNESCO/ONG sur l’enseignement superieur, nous soutenons  particulièrement la partie du programme relative à ce domaine, immense enjeu stratégique exigeant, comme le  prévoit l’UNESCO, un vaste débat mondial faisant intervenir toutes les forces concernées.
18.5 Ma troisième et dernière remarque est la suivante. On ne peut s’interroger sur les transformations dont  l’éducation a besoin sans se demander quelles sociétés elles visent et quelle sociéte en sera l’instrument.  Considérer l’éducation comme un investissement et non comme un luxe relève à nos yeux d’un véritable choix  de civilisation qui revient à recentrer toute politique sur l’homme et non sur les marchés financiers. Or, la  métaphore fréquemment employée du “village planétaire” oublie, nous semble-t-il parfois, un fait historique  patent : au-dessus des villages du Moyen Age, veillait un château, souvent suranné, parfois agressif. N’y a-t-il  pas de modernes châteaux qui, à grand renfort “d’ajustements structurels”, entretiennent la dépendance  technologique, la recolonisation par la dette, le transfert des ressources à partir des pays pauvres ?
18.6 Mais nous sommes également à l’heure où naissent toutes sortes de réseaux, d’initiatives pour aider les  “villageois” à prendre en mains leur avenir en intervenant pour la dignité, le droit à la parole, le respect de  chacun dans sa diversité et ses différences, la tolérance, la démocratie. Mon Organisation, la Fédération  internationale syndicale de l’enseignement, entend être concrètement active et présente parmi les forces qui  oeuvrent au service d’un monde solidaire, à bâtir en commun pour tous les êtres humains. C’est la raison d’être  de l’UNESCO, c’est également la nôtre. Je vous remercie.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Je vous remercie. The next speaker is MS Patricia Daniels, President of Soroptimist International.
20.1 MS DANIELS (Soroptimist International):  Soroptimist International and UNESCO have many parallel goals. Using the ‘Recommendations by the  Executive Board on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001’ as a point of reference for my remarks, 1  would like to report on a number of activities.
20.2 Regarding lifelong education for ah, equal access for all persons to a11 levels and forms of education is  only the fïrst step to a process of lifelong learning. One example of a grass-mots club project is to be found in  JO~, Nigeria, where a club established a skills centre for women teaching basic literacy plus indigenous crafts  and skills for income generation, thereby preserving cultural skills and crafts while advancing the status of  women. Al1 Soroptimist International education schemes integrate basic literacy skills with cultural realities  and preservation, with the goal of establishing basic building blocks of confidence and competence.
20.3 As to assisting in the advancement, transfer and sharing of knowledge, Soroptimist International is  very proud of its partnership in Project 5-0, a UNESCO CO-Action project. Numerous projects have been  established in Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Madagascar, Mexico, Nepal, Philippines, Senegal, Thailand, Turkey,  Western Samoa and Zimbabwe.
20.4 Where enhancing the heritage and promoting creativity are concemed, knowledge of one’s culture and  history are important components of learning in a11 areas. Resource libraries and appropriate materials for  learning are reported from a11 quarters. A sense of pride in one’s heritage and culture fosters self-esteem and  enhances learning.
20.5 On the question of promoting the free flow of information and the development of communication,  Soroptimist International recognizes the importance of free-flowing information and communication in a  rapidly changing world. We pledge our support for the promotion of these technologies to foster educational,  scientific and cultural development.
20.6 With regard to strategies for contributing to peace-building, Soroptimist International has globally  adopted the concept of education for peace, human rights, the democratic process, tolerance and international  understanding. Much emphasis is placed on the teaching of peace and conflict resolution. Our adopted  programme area, ‘International Goodwill and Understanding’, stresses cross-cultural understanding, with  numerous joint projects and programmes between clubs from the North and the South; second-language  learning opportunities; practical applications of the principles of basic democracy and campaigns to monitor  the media in its multiple forms. We Will work for removal of stereotypes that perpetuate myths regarding  countries, people, and cultures.
20.7 Our global organization of approximately 100,000 members in 112 countries is non-profit making. Al1  activities are self-funded or funded in collaboration with other non-governmental organizations or independent  grant programmes. We are very proud of our association with UNESCO. Our UNESCO representation, led by  Madam Jeannine Jacquemin (of whom we are very proud, for her book on the elderly and her enthusiasm and  leadership in connection with the ‘Year for Tolerance’ poster contest), pledges continued support to the goals  and ideals upon which UNESCO was founded.
20.8 Whether building and supplying schools and donating them to a government, as in Gambia, providing  learning material and sports equipment for schools in South Africa, initiating pre-school programmes for  children who live in prison with their mothers in Sri Lanka, implementing comprehensive drug education  programmes globally, or working to educate children and adults to nurture their individual capacities to the  highest level of achievement, Soroptimist International looks forward to a future which includes our close  association with UNESCO. Thank you.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The next and final speaker for today in the general policy debate is MS Lucie-  Mami Noor Nkaké, Representative of the Society of African Culture (SAC) to UNESCO.
22.1 Mme NKAKE (Société africaine de culture) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous présenter très brièvement l’itinéraire de la Société africaine de  culture ainsi que quelques-unes de ses réalisations. En 1946 est créée la revue “Présence africaine”. Un an plus  tard, la maison d’édition Présence africaine ouvre ses portes ; en 1956, entourée de personnalités éminentes du  monde noir, Présence africaine organise ici à Paris, à la Sorbonne, le premier Congrès des artistes et écrivains  noirs, événement à l’époque qualifié de Bandoeng culturel. La Société africaine de culture se constitue alors.  Son but ? Rassembler les hommes de culture du monde noir qu’une communauté de civilisation et de destin  prédispose tout naturellement à travailler ensemble. La revue “Présence africaine”, quant à elle, devient l’outil  de communication privilégié de la Société africaine de culture. En 1959 a lieu le deuxième Congrès des artistes  et écrivains noirs à Rome, au Capitole. En 1966, conformément à la résolution de la Commission des arts de ce  deuxième Congres, la Société africaine de culture crée le premier Festival mondial des arts nègres, à Dakar. Il  n’est pas inutile de rappeler ici que c’est également cette Organisation qui est à l’origine de la fondation de  l’Institut culturel africain (ICA) et, à ce propos, nous déplorons aujourd’hui la disparition de ce véritable  laboratoire d’idées et demandons à l’UNESCO, compte tenu des enjeux auxquels l’Afrique d’aujourd’hui doit  faire face, d’apporter son plein soutien à la renaissance de 1’ICA. En 1972 est prévue une Journée mondiale des  peuples noirs, dont la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, à sa vingtième session en 1978, reconnaît  l’institution par l’adoption dune résolution. Dans ce cas encore, nous nous permettons d’insister pour que cette  résolution de la Conférence générale soit enfin mise en oeuvre.
22.2 Aujourd’hui, malgré certaines difficultés qu’elle peut rencontrer, la Société africaine de culture  poursuit ses efforts pour la promotion de la culture, promotion résolument tournée vers la construction d’un  projet de société. Elle mène à cet égard actuellement une importante réflexion avec un groupe de chercheurs  africains, caraïbes et américains, sur la problématique du pouvoir et de la paix civile en Afrique ; les résultats  de ces travaux seront publiés sous peu dans la revue “Présence africaine”, comme c’est naturel.
22.3 En ce qui concerne le programme de l’UNESCO et s’agissant de priorités pour les pays en  développement, la Société africaine de culture, “omniconsciente” de la contribution et de la participation de  l’Afrique et de sa diaspora au développement de l’Occident, réaffirme ici que ces peuples n’ont pas besoin dune  aide qui les confine dans le statut provisoire de “grands mendiants”. Et j’aimerais ici rappeler une parole  qu’Alioune Diop, fondateur de la Société africaine de culture, a prononcé en 1956, lorsqu’il interpellait toutes  les consciences : “sans rancune et sans haine, nous souhaitons, avec la paix, une humaine répartition des  responsabilités mondiales”. Il s’agit donc là et il s’agira toujours de la reconnaissance de toutes les aires  culturelles.
22.4 Elue membre du Comite permanent des ONG à la dernière conférence des ONG à l’UNESCO, la  Société africaine de culture est particulièrement attentive à la révision des directives qui régissent la  coopération entre l’UNESCO et les ONG, point à l’ordre du jour de cette vingt-huitième session de la  Conférence générale. A ce propos, nous aimerions insister sur la priorité que l’UNESCO doit accorder à  l’universalité du Comité permanent des ONG, notamment par le financement de la participation des ONG  régionales à la conférence biennale des ONG au moyen du Programme de participation. Seule cette
427    participation effective, au-delà des voeux pieux ou des déclarations d’intention, seule cette participation peut  assurer la représentation de toutes les sociétés civiles, c’est-à-dire des cultures.
22.5 Enfin, s’agissant plus spécifiquement de l’Afrique, Aimé Césaire, poète et penseur des Caraïbes et  actuel président de la Société africaine de culture, aura ici le dernier mot : “Faites de ma tête une tête de  proue... de mon île veilleuse je vois l’Afrique multiple et une, verticale dans la tumulteuse péripétie, avec ses  bourrelets, ses nodules, un peu à part, mais à portée de siècle, comme un coeur en réserve”. Que les participants  à cette vingt-huitième session de la Conférence générale entendent cette exigence de paix. L’Afrique est debout  dans le silence de l’histoire et nous n’hésitons pas à vous donner rendez-vous dans deux ans. Un bilan pourra  alors être fait de nos propres actions, dune part, et de la réalisation concrète du programme de l’UNESCO dans  nos régions, d'autrepart. Je vous remercie.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we Will move immediately to the next agenda item.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ,QOK.JIAg KOMMCCHI/I rl0 A~MMHMCIPATMBHbIM BOIIPOCAM: PE30JIIOIIMM M  PEKOMEH,IIAHMM
24. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, Mr Joukov, for his patience,  and at once give him the floor.
25.1 r-~ XYKOB (npencenaTenb KOMHCCHH LIO a~MHHHCTpaTHBHbIM BonpocaM):  EnaronapLo Bac, P-H npeflceRaTenb. fl XOTeJl 661 BbIpa311Tb CBOe y~OBJLeTBOpeHHe B  CB>I3H C TeM, 9TO MOry LIpe~CTaBHTb BaM AoKJLan IIO ILYHKT~ 4.3 "YTsepxfieHme BepxHero  npenenbsoro YPOBHR 6ronXe’ra na 1996-1997 rr.“. npelKEe UeM Ha=LaTb CBOe BbICTyLIJIeHHe,  n03BOJIbTe, r-H FIpencenaTenb, no6naronapnrn WI~HOB KOMHCCHH, flOKJIa~W%Ka, KOTOpbIfi  HaXOAHTCR pZrflOM CO MHOii, npeflcTaBMTeJreti IYenepanbHoro flHpeKTopa B AflMHHHCTpaTEiBHOti  KOMHCCMH 3a nOHHMaHHe H COTpyflHWieCTBO, He rOBOp5l ylKe 0 TepIIeHPLH, KOTOpOe OHH npORBHJIH  np~ o6cyx~eHHEI Yroro Bonpoca.
25.2 AaHHbIfi nyHKT o6cyxqancx B Te9eHEIe Tpex 3aCenaHd. ~peLIErrr HOCHJLH AJIHTeJLbHbIki H  IIHTeHCMBHbI~ XapaKTep. Bcero COCTOIIJIOCb 85 BbICTynJIeHHki. XOTR B xoge LIpeHEll? 6bIJIH  BbICKa3aHbI 3aMe9aHwz LIO MHOrHM aCLLeKTaM 6roRxeTa, o6cy>r<Eeane COCpe~OTOWUIOCb Ha AByX  OCHOBHbIX BOnpocax - AOnOJIHHTeJIbHbIe paCXOnb1, CBII3aHHbIe C BOJMO>KHbIM yBeJIEiseHHeM rIHCJIa
4JIeHOB MCIIOJLHHTeJLbHOrO COBeTa C 51 RO 58, a TaK>Ke paCXOflb1, KOTOpbIe MOryT B03HHKHyTb B  pe3yJIbTaTe peLLLeHmI 50-c ceccmi FeHepaJIbHoki AccaM6nea OpraHmJaqmn O6'xeJvIHeHHbIX  t-laqmti OTIIOCHTeJLbHO ILOBbIIILeHEIR LLIKaJ[bL 3apa6oTHoii IIJLaTbI KaTerOpHII CneqHaJLHCTOB.  ~OJIbLUUHCTBO AeneraToB BbIpa3IiJLI~ 03a609eHHOCTb OTHOCEITeJLbHO LLOCJLe~CTBdI STHX  @IIOJLHHTeJIbHbIX PaCXO~OB AJIR 6ronXeTa 1996-1997 rr. MHorae sbIcTyn~Bm~e ReneraTbI  nO~%pKHyJIli HCO6XO~HMOCTb C?pOrO npHflep>rcHBaTbCR KOH~enqEIlI HyJIeBOrO peaJIbHOr0 POCTa
6LO~YKeTa II m36eraTb JLLO6OrO 3aJLOxeHHOrO B HeM J@ML&HTa. B TO xe BpeMx 6bIJIO AOCTLIrHyTO
25.3 B XOne fl&iCKyCCIIH II0 6IOnI>KeTHbIM LLOCJIe~CTBlE-IM BOJMO>KHOrO yBeJRIYeHlUI WICJIa WIeHOB  MCnOJIHMTeJLbHOrO coBeTa KOMHCCIUI 6bIna IIpOHH~OpMnpOBaHa 0 TOM, 9TO 3T0 nOBJLelIeT 3a  co6oW yBeJIIFLeHne paCXOnOB Ha 947 000 HOJIJI., 113 KOTOpbIX 395 500 EOJIJL. COCTaBZIT  JZOIIOJIHIITeJIbHbIe TpaHCnOpTHbIe paCXOnb1 B CyTOqHbIe, a 551 500 BOJIJI. - pacxo~b1 Ha  nepeo60py~oBaHHe 3a.na 3acenaHLG COBeTd. EbIJIO AOCTEIrHyTO o6qee CorJIacEIe B OTHOLLLeHLIH  TOTO, 9TO ,QOnOJIHHTeJLbHbIe PaCXORbI AOJEKHbI a6cop6nposaTbcR R paMeax CymecTByromero  nepxnero IIpefleJIbHOrO ypOBHZI 6Io@KeTa, a He ~06aBJIRTbcS-I K HeMy. ORHaKO 6bIntï BbICKa3aHbI  pa3JWiHbIe MHeHHR OTHOCEITeJIbHO TOrO, KaKEIM o6pa3oM @IHaHCHpOBaTb 3TH ~OILOJtHMTeJIbHbIe  paCXOnb1. HeKOTOpbIe ReJIeraTbI BbIpa3WIH MHeHne, lITO cnoco6br nOKpbITlUI 3THX PaCXO~OB  AOJI>KHbI 6bITb OILpe~eJIeHbI reHepaJIbHO6 KOH+epeHqHeti Ha ee IIbIHeLLlHeti CeCCMH If, B
13  YaCTHOCTH, YTO COBMeCTHOe 3aceJJaHHe KOMHCCHH no HpOrpaMMe II A~Mr?HHCTpaTHBHOk  KOMHCCYJH ~OJIlKHO pacnpenenwrb @iHaHCHpOBaHlïe JTEIX paCXO~OB n0 BCeM CTaThRM  aCCHrHOBaHHI%. apyrlle HeneraTbI, COrJIaClIBIIIHCb c HeO6XoJJHMOcTbK) Toro, YT06bl reHepanbHaH  KOHCjJepCHIJHR Onpe~eJIFIJIa c11oco6b1 nOKpbITHII 3TIIX paCXOnOB Ha ee HbIHeLUHeii CeccHPI, B TO >KC  BpeMSI COYJIEI, YTO qacTb 11 6IOmeTa "BbInOJIHeHMe npOI'paMMb1 H cnyx6br" He AOJDKHa
3aTparHBaTbCR JIfO6bIMK AaJIbHeiiIHHMLI COKpa~eHWIMH JJJI5I nOKpbITHR 3THX paCXO~OB. nIpI 3TOM  ApyrHe YJIeHbI KOMHCCHH BbIpa3HJIH MHeHHe, TITO cnoco6br nOKpbI'IlE4 ~OnOJIHEITeJIbHbIX paCXO)JOB  AOJI>KHbI 6bITb OnpefleJIeHbI HCnOJIHHTeJIbHbIM COBCTOM Ha ero 149-G cecunf, B YaCTHOCTM,  IKXO~ZI 143 Tore, YTO pacxoJ&r B pa3Mepe 551 500 ~~OJIJI. nnrr nepeo6opygoBaHmsI 3aTIa 3ace~aad  COBeTa npe~CTaBJIHKlT ~0601% OIJeHOYHyIO CYMMJ'. EbIJIO yKa3aH0, YTO 3TOT npOeKT He  paCCMaTpHBaJICR KOMMTCTOM no mTa6-KBapTHpe, B YaCTHOCTH, C TOYKB 3peHHSI OnpefleJIeHHH  BOJMO>KHOCTeii <t)HHaHCHpOBaHHSI OKOHYaTeJIbHbIX paCXOnOB, npe>Kne Bcero 3a cYeT cpe,qcTB,  npenyCMOTpeHHbIX B nnaae o6HoBneHHa nOMeweH& mTa6-KBapTHpbI. npe)JCTaBHTeJIb  reHepa.NbHOro J(HpeKTOpa OTMeTHJl, YTO B IJHTepeCaX co6nroneHHR 06bImoM 61ogiKeTIroii  npOqe)JypbI 6bmo 6bI npe~nOYTHTeJIbHbIM, ‘I’ro6bI cnoco6bI nOKpbI'IlUI ~OnOJIHHTeJIbHhIX paCXO)JOB
6bIm OnpeneJIeHbI reHepaJrbHoii KoH+epeHqHe$i Ha ee HbIHeILIHeii CeCCLIH B COOTBeTCTBHM C  peIIIeHEïeM COBeTa 145 EX/6.1 II YTO, n0 BOSMOlKHOCTH, CJIeJfyeT n36eraTb BKJIH)YeHHR B
6mpKeT HOBbIX paCXOnOB, KOTOpbIe 6ynyT nOKpbIBa'I%CSI nO3nHee B COOTBeTCTBMM C peILIeHHeM  ~CnOJIHHTeJIbHOrO COBeTa 0 C@HaHCHpOBaHHH STHX paCXOnOB.
25.4 npEI 06CylKAeHHH BOnpOCa paCXOflOB, CBR3aHHbIX C BOJMO>KHbIM YBeJIHYeHEIeM 3apaFiOTHOii  nJIaTb1 H Hafl6aBOK nepCOHaJIy, HeKOTOpbIe YJIeHbl OTMeTHJIH, YTO B CHJIy OTCyTCTBHSI y HHX B  HacToRru;ee BpeMzI TOYHOii MH@OpMaIJHH 3TOT BOnpOC JJOJDKeH 6bITb nepeflaH MCnOJIHHTeJIhHOMy  coseTy AJIzI paccMoTpeHHR Ha ero 149-C ceccnH. JJpyrwe ReneraTbI cYrfTau, YTO reHepasrbIIari  KOH+epeHIJHR ROJIJKHa AaTb YeTKHe yKa3aHHII B OTHOUIeHLIM TOrO, KaKHM o6pa3oM CJIenyeT  a6COp6HpOBaTb TaKHe pacxofibr, HcnoJIbJyH, B OCHOBHOM, qac'rm I,IV II VII6m,q~eTa, HH B KOeM  cnysae He BbIXOJ(R 3a BepXHHti npeAeJIbHbII2 ypOBeHb 6fonXeTa. IlpeflcTaBEITeJIb resepanbaoro  AISpeKTOpa BbICKa3aJI OrOBOpKH B OTHOIneHIIH BOSMO>KHOCTH a6cop6mpoBaaw ,QOnOJIHHTC~bHbIX  pacxo~oa, CBII3aHHbIX C nOBbIIUeHHeM 3apa6oTHoii nJIaTb1, ecJIH TaKOe penreane 6yneT npMH5ITO  I7eHepanbHofi AccaMGneeM OpraHmsaqnm 06%eJJHHeHHbIX Haqm?, TOJIbKO B paMKax qacTefi LIV  EI VII 6w&KeTa.
25.5 OnHa E13 ReneraqHH 3aSIBMJla, YTO C yYeTOM 6IOA>KeTHbIX TpyAHOCTeii B rOCyfiapCTBaX-  meHax II perueam?, npHH5ITbIX B nOCJIeJ(Hee BpeMR ApyJ?HMH CneqHaJIH3EIpOBaHHbIMPI  yYpe>KneHMRMm, Opraamsaqmn 06%eflIIHeHHbIX Haqk% H~O~XOJJ~MO npWIO>KHTb BCe yCI4JIWI AJIR  cHIf>KeHnH Bepxaero npenenbaoro YPOBHSI 6mgXe’ra.
(25.1) Mr JOUKOV (Chairperson of the Administrative Commission) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to say how gratified I am to be able ta report to you on item 4.3:  ‘Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 1996.1997’. Allow me before 1 proceed, Mr President, ta thank the  Commission members, the Rapporteur, who is sitting beside me, and the representatives of the Director-General  in the Administrative Commission for their understanding, and co-operation, not to mention their patience when  this item was discussed.
(25.2) Discussion of the item went on for three meetings and the debate was long and intense, with
85 contributions in all. Although the debate touched on many aspects of the hudget, it was centred on two main  issues: additional costs in the case of an increase from 51 to 58 in the number of Executive Board Members; and  any cost that might result from the application of a decision by the United Nations General Assembly at its fiftieth  session ta increase the salary scales for Professional staff. Most speakers voiced concern about the implications of  such additional expenditure for the 1996-1997 budget. Many stressed the need ta adhere strictly ta the concept of  zero real growth in the budget and to avoid any huilt-in deficit. At the same time, there was general agreement  that any decision on the matter should in no way affect the integrity of the programme.
(25.3) During discussion of the hudgetary implications of any increase in the membership of the Executive  Board, the Commission was informed that this would entai1 a cost increase of $947,000, of which $395,500  would be for the additional travelling and per diem costs and $551,500 for refurbishing the Executive Board
429    room. There was general agreement that the additional costs should be absorbed within and not added to the  existing budget ceiling. Divergent views were nevertheless put forward on how ta meet those additional costs.  Some speakers opined that the means of covering that expenditure should be decided upon by the General  Conference at its present session and, in particular, that the joint meeting of the Programme Commission and the  Administrative Commission should spread those costs over a11 of the Appropriation Lines. Others, while agreeing  with the need for the General Conference to rule at its present session on how ta caver those costs, considered  that Part II of the Budget, ‘Programme Execution and Services’, should be spared any further cuts intended to  offset those costs. Still, other members of the Commission expressed the view that the means of providing for the  additional costs should be decided by the Executive Board at its 149th session, particularly since the costs of  $55 1,500 for refïtting the Executive Board room represented an estimate. It was pointed out that the project had  not been reviewed by the Headquarters Committee to determine, in particular, whether the final costs might be  financed, as a matter of priority, out of the funds provided in the Plan for the Renovation of Headquarters  Premises. The representative of the Director-General took the view that, for the sake of budgetary orthodoxy, it  would be preferable that the means of covering the additional costs should be decided by the General Conference  at its present session, in accordance with 145 EX/Decision 6.1, and that the inclusion of a negative provision in  the budget, ta be offset at a later date by an Executive Board decision on the financing of those costs, should, if  possible, be avoided.
(25.4) With regard to any cost resulting from a possible increase in staff salaries and allowances, some  members of the Commission considered that, since they at present lacked precise information, the matter should  be left to the Executive Board to examine at itsl49th session. Others felt that it was for the General Conference to  give guidance on how such costs should be absorbed, mainly by using Parts 1, IV and W of the budget and in no  way exceeding the budget ceiling. The representative of the Director-General expressed reservations about the  possibility of absorbing additional costs for salary increases, such as might be decided by the United Nations  General Assembly, exclusively under Parts 1, IV and VII of the budget.
(25.5) One delegation stated that, in view of the budgetary constraints faced by Member States and recent  decisions by other United Nations Specialized Agencies, every effort should be made ta lower the budget ceiling.
(25.6) At the end of the debate the Commission recommended, without a vote, that the General Conference  approve the draft resolution appearing in paragraph 5 of document 28 C/l49 now before you. The delegations of a  number of countries expressed reservations following the Commission’s adoption of a decision regarding the draft  resolution. 1 thank you, Mr President.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. As you have said, this draft resolution from your Commission is a  very thorough piece of work for which 1 thank you very much. 1 also know that a delicate balance has been  struck by this formulation, SO 1 take it that the wording could meet with the approval of the plenary. The  reservations expressed are noted - they are also recorded in document 28 C/149, where you Will see which  delegations found it necessary to express their reservations although they joined in the recommendation that the  General Conference approve this resolution.
26.2 Against that background, may 1 take it that we cari approve the draft resolution by consensus? That  seems to be the case. 1 see no sign of anybody wishing to speak. The draft resolution is anproved. Thank you  very much. And may 1 once again thank Mr Joukov very warmly for the good work that the Administrative  Commission has accomplished SO far.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPIAHM3AHMSI PAEOTbI (nponon>Kenne)  (@) &A pbx  Ifwtia C$i% 1
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  Lddies and gentlemen, 1 must confess that 1 was a little surprised when an item was announced by the  Secretariat on which the President and the General Committee had not been consulted. 1 refer to the  presentation of the ‘Genoa Declaration on Science and Society’, by Professor Antonio Ruberti, one of the  chairpersons of a group of representatives of various academies who met on 8 and 9 October 1995, in Genoa, to  approve a text for submission to a11 the academies of the world.
27.2 There is no doubt that in terms of content this is a very important and very interesting declaration, but  we cannot treat it as a General Conference item. 1 have been informed, however, by the Director-General that a  separate ceremony cari be arranged, outside the plenary, after we receive the President of Equatorial Guinea,  and 1 would urge everyone to stay on for that.
27.3 1 shall now suspend the meeting while we await the President of Equatorial Guinea. Please remain in  the hall.  (The meeting is suspended at 5.15 p.m. and resumes at 5.30 p.m.>  VISITE DE S. EXC. M. OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO, PRESIDENT DE  LA REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE EQUATORIALE  VISIT OF H.E. MR OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO, PRESIDENT OF THE  REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA  VISITA DEL EXCELENTISIMO SR. OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO,  PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA DE GUINEA ECUATORIAL  BH3HT EFO HPEBOCXOJJMTEJIbCIBA F-HA OEMAHF HFYEMA MBACOFO,  HPE3MAEHTA PECHYBJIHKH 3KBATOPMAJIbHAg FBMHEfl  @IgUYI L;i &J+O+ dJ ~gtjJ+0 Lo& ekJi +JI iLlA.dl +&9 SJbj  &WL~~%tliZl%!&% Obiang Nguema Mbasogo %!&@If;#%~  (The President of Equatorial Guinea enters the hall and is escorted to the rostrum)
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, Mr Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and  Gentlemen, in my capacity as President of the General Conference of UNESCO, it is an honour to welcome to  this twenty-eighth session His Excellency the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
28.2 Mr President, at this very moment, UNESCO is, as you are well aware, celebrating its Iïftieth  anniversary, when the concept of the ‘culture of peace’ and its essential components, such as tolerance and  respect for human dignity and democracy, require to be more than ever reaflïrmed.
28.3 This celebration addresses a major issue to the world: the universality of this concept as well as the  acceptance of diversity and differences.
28.4 It also implies that UNESCO, as the universal and ethical organization of the United Nations system,  should ensure that the gap between the developed and least-developed countries, and the large and small  nations, is reduced. One cari no longer tolerate the overwhelming of nations with stark poverty and the infernal  cycle of national debt, illiteracy and social dislocation. One cari no longer tolerate discrimination and injustice  among peoples and nations.
28.5 Efforts need to be stepped up to ensure that both the ‘culture of peace’ and social and human  development become an everyday reality, and that multilaterahsm forms the basis of the near future.
(29.1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Distinguished  Representatives of Member States, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is for me a great honour and a pleasure to welcome  the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, His Excellency Mr Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, to UNESCO  House, which is the house of a11 the world’s peoples. His presence among us, at this twenty-eighth session of the  General Conference when the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary is starting to be celebrated, reflects the universal  significance of this event. On behalf of UNESCO and in my persona1 capacity, 1 should like to thank you for your  visit which Will undoubtedly help to strengthen the existing ties of co-operation with the people of Equatorial  Guinea.
(29.2) The co-operation between us, Mr President, gives cause for satisfaction. Our main project, at present, is  to ensure the application of the primaryschool curriculum as a follow-up to a teacher-training project which was  carried out in conjunction with the United Nations Development Programme for a total cost of $404,000. In  higher education, in efforts to lay the foundations of higher education in Equatorial Guinea, our co-operation,  through which the sum of $300,000 h as been made available, has served above a11 to provide equipment for  agricultural training facilities and also, as you know, for the newspaper EVANO and for televixion. Moreover, the  International Programme for the Development of Communication has promoted a number of media in the  Organization’s various fields of competence.
(29.3) TO provide the human resources essential for the promotion of development and the preservation of  peace, such is the purpose of UNESCO. My intention is not, of course, to go into the details of the main projects  we are carrying out together, but ramer to ensure that they are strengthened as much as possible, and to take the  opportunity offered by your presence among us to tel1 you that the Organization Will continue to use its experience  and resources to construct ‘the defences of peace in the minds of men’. Mr President, UNESCO Will always  support Equatorial Guinea’s efforts to promote dialogue and ensure progress.
(29.4) 1 am happy, Mr President, to be able to reaffirm this commitment to you, while extending to you my  most cordial welcome to UNESCO Headquarters. Thank you very much.
30. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Director-General. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is now my pleasure to  invite His Excellency Mr Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, to address  the plenary. Mr President, you have the floor.
(31.1) H.E. Mr OBIANG NGUEMAMBASOGO, President of the Repuhlic of Equatorial Guinea (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General of UNESCO, Distinguished Ministers, Honourahle Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, first of all, 1 would  like to extend my cordial greetings to the delegates of the Memher States attending this biennial conference of  UNESCO and to express the fellow feeling of the people of Equatorial Guinea.
(31.2) Mr President, now, as UNESCO celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of its founding as a Specialized  Agency of the United Nations system, is the ideal time to review its activities during its half Century of existence.  This Will enable us to formulate recommendations that would strengthen its role in the promotion of education,  science and culture for the benefit of humankind.
(31.3) UNESCO was established as a Specialized Agency of the United Nations to uphold the fundamental  principle of protecting future generations from the scourge of war; to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights,  the dignity and value of the individual, and the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small; to  create conditions in which justice and mutual respect among nations and peoples could be maintained; and to  further social progress and improve the quality of life within a broader concept of human liberty. The ultimate  abject of UNESCO is, therefore, human beings, their dignity, their tieedom and their welfare.
(31.4) It was this resolve that inspired the founders of the United Nations, whose principles and objectives are  still relevant today. My country endorses and cherishes them as a requirement of humankind.
(31.5) After ail, we consider education, science and culture to be valid instruments for defining the quality of  human beings and their capacity to promote the transformation of nature for their own well-being and happiness.
(31.6) Culture is self-evidently the vehicle of communication, of union, understanding and solidarity among  peoples, while science and technology are the means whereby human beings satisfy their material and moral  needs. These elements, which are vital for human fulfilment, constitute the heritage of peoples everywhere, to  which they must accede through education.
(31.7) Mr President, the year 1995 may well go down in the annals of UNESCO as a year of major events,  beginning with the International Conference ‘Audience Africa’, followed by the Copenhagen and Beijing Summits  and now by the celebrations to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and UNESCO. Al1 this shows  what effort has gone into the preparation and consultation that preceded this session of the General Conference,  giving it special significance and creating an atmosphere in which change is essential. Needless to say, this calls  for a review.
(31.8) The first element in this review is basically positive: namely that UNESCO has achieved a great deal,  because despite the need to renew the system and make it more effective, there have been successes and positive  developments in UNESCO’s action over the past SO years. By way of example we may cite decolonization,  particularly in Africa; peace-keeping; the emergence of a new concept of development and how it cari be elevated  to the status of a human right. This period has also witnessed the disappearance of many of the obstacles  encountered by the United Nations in the fulfilment of its mission, such as the ideological confrontation between  East and West and apartheid in South Atiica.
(31.9) The second element in the review concerns the presence of areas, sectors and spheres of activity in  which UNESCO’s action cannot be considered to have been particularly successful. These include:  poverty and the major pandemics by which humankind is assailed and which cry out to be eradicated;  hunger, destitution, malnutrition, drug trafficking and its consequences, which underscore the gulf that  separates the developed and developing worlds;  armed conflicts and trouble spots that attest to the persistence of intolerance, intransigence, interference  in the domestic affairs of other States and unwillingness to settle conflicts of interest both within  communities and in relations between States:
13  the snares that lie in wait for the world’s fledgling democracies, and their consequences, are yet another  scourge for humankind today, bearing witness to the deficiencies in intercultural dialogue. Africa is a  wilting flower that needs special tending, SO it is a mistake to judge her by the same standards as the  European countries, since neither their cultures nor their histories, let alone their societies, are  comparable. It would be mistaken to impose European models.
(31.10) Mr President, we bring this brief review to a close with the feeling that while much has been done, a  great deal still remains. The world today is not what it was yesterday, SO we cari be indulgent in our assessment of  what the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies have achieved in the half Century since thcy were founded.
(31.11) Indulgence, however, does not mean that we should acct>t the status quo, which is why we consider  reasonable and justified the cal1 for change that echoes through the United Nations and we therefore advocate  reform of that Organization’s role.
(31.12) There is no need for UNESCO to await the outcome of the reform of the United Nations. Rather, it  should proceed in its own fields of competence to reinforce peace-building on the foundations of a development  process based on equity, justice and freedom. In other words, it must concentrate its efforts on developing human  resources. There is still a lot to be done in this regard for Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, the  regions with the greatest need.
(31.13) Mr President, as the Director-General of UNESCO said at the World Summit on Social Development.  ‘Education is not only a significant measure of social development, it is also a prerequisite and a key factor  influencing other development indicators’.
(31.14) In addition, we know that education is a fundamental right of individuals and peoples; consequently, the  Education Sector, like the Science and Technology Sector, should not be subject to obstruction nor should it suffer  the consequences of intolerance, intransigence and unwillingness to engage in dialogue, either within  communities or in relations between States. When things reach such a pass, we not only violate a fundamental  right but we also evince a willingness to hijack the development of a people or a community; in other words, to  place its very existence in jeopardy.
(31.15) It is unacceptable that, with the present level of scientific and technological progress in the North, there  should still exist in the world today countries that suffer from illiteracy and poverty and see their possibilities of  acceding to progress barred by obstacles erected by the countries that possess this expertise.
(31.16) Equatorial Guinea belongs, for historical reasons, to that group of countries whose education systems  need urgent reform, and UNESCO is assisting the government of my country in this task. We should like to take  this opportunity to express our sincere thanks and appreciation for this support, which, we firmly believe, Will  continue to be granted to us.
(31.17) Socio-economic development, as is well known, depends on the quality of the human resources  available, and they, as a general rule, are trained in higher education. Equatorial Guinea needs and has the  right - to train its own human resources, in accordance with its requirements, SO as to be able to create sustainable  development, and to that end it is seeking to consolidate its system of higher education. It is our wish that  UNESCO’s Member States and other institutions Will join us in this noble venture.
(31.18) We note with satisfaction UNESCO% constant support for the international Management of Social  Transformations programme, which cari make a very considerable contribution to ensuring that the  democratization under way in our countries is a process of genuine intercultural dialogue.
(31.19) We welcome the efforts undertaken by UNESCO to establish and strengthen the communication  capacities of the underdeveloped countries, and we should like to express our thanks to it for a11 the support it has  given and is giving us in this field.
(31.20) We support the view that UNESCO should promote freedom, independence, pluralism and the diversity  of the press. At the same time, it must provide mechanisms, training courses and instruction to encourage greater  objectivity in the press and the greatest possible respect for human dignity.
(31.21) We fully share the priority UNESCO attaches to women and to the least-developed countries, priorities  that it intends to retain during the coming biennium.
(31.22) Poverty continues to ravage the underdeveloped countries; the prices of the basic export product of the  countries of the South continue to show no sign of rising on international markets, and the foreign debt and  programmes of structural adjustment continue to lay a heavy burden on the countries of the Third World.
(31.23) It is against this background that many of our countries have to tackle the problems involved in  instituting democracy, create an education system that responds to their particular circumstances and needs,  strengthen their cultural identity and promote sustainable development.
(31.24) UNESCO must continue to play its role as a catalyst and teach investment in human creativity and in  the shared acquisition, transfer and use of knowledge, which is the key to any process of individual or collective  emancipation.
(31.25) UNESCO must be steadfast in pursuing its objectives, which are of universal validity for the whole of  humankind: the promotion of education, science and culture for the full development of the individual, of his or  her dignity and material and moral welfare. TO achieve that, a11 States members of the United Nations must fulfil,  without any attempt at evasion, the commitments they have assumed under the Charter, SO as to strengthen the  effectiveness of that organization.
(31.26) We do not believe that the various cultural areas that have been formed in the world as a result of  historical processes provide any justification for discrimination in the exchanges needed in education, science and  culture.
(31.27) Nor do we believe that past conflicts and present rivalries should create restrictions on those exchanges,  which a11 States need.
(31.28) Since the establishment of the United Nations in 1945, we ought to feel able to overcome the complexes  of military confrontation between nations. The Cold War has passed into history, and we stand at the dawn of one  single world for the whole of humankind. We must a11 help to ensure that that world has only one ultimate goal:  the human person and his or her integrity as a social being.
(3 1.29) In the Republic of Equatorial Guinea we believe that we are a11 members of one human community that  must develop on the basis of interdependence, the complementarity of different groups and mutual respect.
(31.30) We are a11 members of one world community in which a11 cultures form a historical legacy for the whole  of humankind and in which no one culture or individual is superior to any other. We must prize a11 cultures as  component parts justifying a universal human model.
(31.31) Consequently, and despite the linguistic isolation that Equatorial Guinea suffers on the African  continent, we believe that our cultural integration Will make a valuable contribution not only to the people of  Equatorial Guinea itself but also to communities elsewhere.
(31.32) While the world is tending to converge towards cultural unity within diversity, Equatorial Guinea, on  account of its historical and cultural background and geopolitical situation, provides a valuable example of Afro-  Tbero-American culture and forms the meeting point of these different strands on the African continent.
(31.33) Against this background, the establishment in Equatorial Guinea of an institute that would defend the  cultural values of this community would be a contribution to intellectual life and to the necessary understanding,  exchanges and protection of the interests of the countries concerned.
(31.34) This is of real importance, since nowadays countries are formed on the basis of culture or of language.  In this sense, Equatorial Guinea, as 1 said in Cartagena, is an orphan in Africa, although it is a favourite son in  other parts, for example in Latin America, since there we have many brothers, and thus, 1 believe, Equatorial  Guinea should not suffer such isolation.
(31.35) Mr Director-General, 1 should not like to conclude my statement without paying you a deserved tribute,  as a man in whom the spirit of solidarity and courage are conjoined and who stands at the side of the most  disadvantaged to learn about their problems and listen to them at meetings, such as ‘Audience Africa’, SO as to be  able to speak on their behalf at such meetings as the World Summit in Copenhagen.
(31.36) This spirit of solidarity, this concern for equity between human beings, between the strong and the  weak, is, in our judgement, an aspect of the catalytic role of the organization you direct, and this fills us with hope  for the future of UNESCO.
(31.37) It has fallen to you to lead UNESCO in exceptional circumstances, not only on account of its financial  situation, although 1 know that some degree of agreement now seems to have been reached, but also on account of  the need to establish a way of fulfilling its ideals against a background of change and of the great expectations  that now exist in the modern world.
(31.38) This is a task, Mr Director-General, that is worthy of you, and we wish you success and good fortune.  Thank you very much.
32.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. On behalf of the General Conference, tbe Chairperson and Members of the  Executive Board, and all those present here, 1 would like to thank you very much, Mr President of Equatorial  Guinea, for this address.
32.2 And now, ladies and gentlemen, 1 shall adjoum the meeting but 1 would ask you to remain in your  seats until the President of Equatorial Guinea has left, and then the special presentation of the Genoa  Declaration Will take place in a few minutes’ time. Thank you very much. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée à 18 heures  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.00