Septième séance plénière
28 octobre 1995 à 10 h.05  Président : M. CARRINGTON (Trinité et Tobago)  puis : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Seventh plenary meeting
28 October 1995 at 10.5 a.m.  President: Mr CARRINGTON (Trinidad and Tobago)  later: Mr KROGH (Denmark)  Séptima sesih plenaria
3aTeM: T-H KPOT (&HEU,)
1. The PRESIDENT:  The President, Mr Krogh, is still occupied in the General Committee and he has asked me to open the  meeting this morning. The fïrst speaker Will be the Honourable Ronald Green, Minister of Education, Sports  and Youth Affairs of Dominica.
2.1 Mr GREEN (Dominica):  Mr Presidcnt, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ministers,  Excellencies, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by thanking you, Mr Director-General, and  UNESCO’s officers in the Caribbean, for their assistance, support and inspiration that brought us to this  twcnty-eighth session of the General Conference. Let me also praise the entire UNESCO Secretariat for their  excellent work, apparent in the smooth operation SO far. Let me further congratulate a11 those who have  asccnded to positions ofresponsibility and leadership, as well as returned Members. At this critical stage in the  lifc of this unique global organization, a11 our best skills must be harnessed. The delegate of Dominica is  honoured to be herc.
2.2 A grcat son of our Dominican soil, Phillip Potter, former General Secretary of the World Council of  Churchcs. once said: ‘The Caribbean has made a disproportionate contribution to world civilization’. He meant  that for our size we bave done a great deal. In saying that, he cited George Padmore, Marcus Garvey, Walter  Rodney, Bob Marley and C.L.R. James - a11 of them outstanding contributors in their fields, a11 of them  outstanding West Indians.
2.3 Of course. Mr Potter, in cclebrating our survival and our grcatness, was also clearly underlining or  lamenting our smallness. our divisiveness, our vulnerability. Economically, we arc vulnerable due to our  dependence on preferential monocrop export agriculture - in Dominica’s case, bananas. Physically. wc arc  vulncrable duc 10 the annual hurricane disasters impacting on agriculture and thc environment of our dclicate  island ecosystems. And on a human scale we are vulnerable due to the preponderant tcndencics of our people to  migrate - an almost unhcralded retùgee-like situation.
2.4 Yet small is also beautiful. Microcosms of many of the grcat problems of our times cm be easily seen  in our island nations. We are veritablc laboratories. We merely bave to tacklc our problems in earnest to sec the  great potcntial for learning lessons, and discovering new ways of solving our problems. Yes. our region is rich  in divcrsity and also rich in learning. In othcr words, the answer to our problems, and perhaps to some of yours,  is j17 the Caribbean. And yes, CARICOM and thc Organization of Eastern Caribbean Suites (OECS) arc central  working instrumcnls in building our unity.
2.5 WC in the IICW Government of Dominica are quite char that now is the time for us to inspire ideas and  providc new mcchanisms that Will dynamiiie a whole ncw generation to manifcst their brilliance on OIL~’ shorts.  Our hcroes of an carlier cra would havc made the bulk of their contributions overseas. Our task today is at  home. at ont and the same rime in Dominica and in the Caribbean. Pleasc do not take that as seltishness. WC  arc still world citizens. But. as Mwülimu Julius Nyererc would say, ‘self-reliancc begins at home’.
2.6 Mr Prcsident, distinguished delegates. Dominica is IKW struggling to rccovcr from thc double impacts  of the rccent disastrous Hurricancs Luis and Marilyn. We are struggling to reconstruct and to securc our  economy. Our plea to the international donor community for the US $65 million damage assessmenl is  receiving a reasonable rcsponse. We shall continue to struggle to rcvitalize our scnse of hope, notwithstanding  the stronger and more frcqucnt disasters that have been prcdicted.
2.7 But it should he noted that UNESCO may havc to considcr within the United Nations system if not  within the Organization itself, a disaster reconstruction and mitigating mechanism. 1 mean. how do WC respond  to 1mu1y US $1 million damage of school facilities. materials, posters. books, furniture and other teaching aids  on a regular basis?
2.8 Despite a11 our strengths and fightback, we must admit however that at serious risk is our unique  ‘culture of peace’, our ‘coup de main’ tradition of working together, helping each other, loving our neighbour.  The drug menace, the crisis of an essentially colonial education, table US/TV, single parenting, and Child  abuse a11 exacerbate the vulnerability syndrome, increasingly alienating our youth. Our youth are under severe  threat. Maurice Bishop called it ‘visa mentality’. But they are our hope. Clearly without an engaged youth, we  are nowhere.
2.9 UNESCO needs to realize this. UNESCO should, we think, raise youth higher on its priority list.  Together, we must seek to ignite, to inspire and to instruct our youth to achieve the leadership and the greatness  they are capable of.
2.10 We stand firmly with the spirit of the Medium-Term Strategy as it seeks to lay the basis for long-term  sustainable development over the next ten years. We endorse the Programme of Action for the Sustainablc  Development of Small Island Developing States and its strong environmental plea but feel that greater energies  must be devotcd to building institutional and human capacity to get these things done.
2.11 We are happy that the Unit for Relations with Small Member States has been instituted here and hope  it Will continue to be strengthened to fulfil its role. We are also happy with an approach that seeks to ensure  networking with a range of non-governmental organizations. We agree on a co-ordinated OECS cducation  reform strategy. We as a region would encourage further strengthening of distance education initiatives as  crucial. We are happy with the content focus that places lifelong education for a11 or basic education as an  absolute, unequivocal, first priority. For us this means quality primary education, full literacy, access to  secondary school, textbooks, teacher training, and SO on.
2.12 Mr President, in the spirit of reflection and of rcnewal, perhaps characteristic of a liftieth hirthday, and  as a new Minister, only four months in office, attending my first UNESCO event, allow me to set before you the  following questions. 1s UNESCO spending a disproportionate percentage of dollars on administration as  opposed to programmes in the field? Have transparency and accountability, much-lauded characteristics of thc  incrcasingly recognized NGO movement. been filtered suffïciently into UNESCO to ensure that Member States’  mandates get full and proper attention? Are our ‘communications’ SO intellectual that they end up underrating  or underselling the good work being done? Are we therefore building a gap between peoplc on the ground and  UNESCO? Are WC seeking and finding new ways to distribute and share the gold mine of information and  cxpcricnces we bave gathered over the years? What new initiatives cari we as UNESCO undertake to bring in  ovcrduc contributions in order to ensure our priority programmes get properly serviced? Are WC suffïciently  focused? Or Will our programme continue to diversify? These are just a sample of the questions that we need to  answer in a major evaluation which seems necessary at this phase in UNESCO’s life. Thcy rcflcct the  Dominican delegation’s commitment to a process that is open, critical, constructive businesslike, participatory  and change-oriented.
2.13 Mr President. cstcemed delegates, let this twenty-eighth session take the bold steps that are needed in  ordcr to rcspond to the cal1 to reshape and renew our Organization. Let us cntcr the new millennium assured  that WC have ad,justed to the needs of the times. May God hless us and walk with us in these challenging days.  Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Green. The questions you bave posed are duly noted and Will be considered  appropriately. 1 IIOW cal1 on the Honourable Mr Govinda Ra,j Joshi, Minister of Education of Nepal.
4.1 Mr JOSHl (Ncpal):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen.  it is my great plcasure and privilege to have this opportunity to participate in the twenty-eighth session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, which has been working for its noble objectives as well as for the  maintenance of peace and security for humankind. UNESCO’s approach to the promotion of peace and security  through intellectual co-operation lias becn widely recognizcd. On this occasion, 1 would likc, on behalf of the  Ncpalese delegation, to renew our full commitment and firm support for the ideals and endeavours of the  Organisation.
4.2 Mr President. 1 would like to congratulate Mr Krogh on his election as the President of this General  Confcrence. Other members of thc General Committee? including the VicePresidents, also deserve our  felicitations. 1 am sure that under their able guidance and leadership the Conference Will be successful in
209    achieving its desired outcomes. 1 would like to assure you of our co-operation in making the Conference a  success.
4.3 Nepal became a Member of UNESCO in 1953. Since then, we have been receiving assistance in  different fïelds of development. It is a matter of great satisfaction for us that, among other actions, we have  heen able to preserve the cultural heritage of the Kathmandu Valley, establish the International Centre for  lntegrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) in Nepal and renovate temples with the support of UNESCO.  May 1 join you, Mr President, in commemorating the Organization’s 50 successful years of valuable  contributions to humankind.
4.4 We highly appreciate the efforts undertaken by UNESCO in bringing about changes in the fïeld of  education through knowledge-sharing, the preservation of culture and the promotion of mass communication  throughout the world. We respect UNESCO’s mission to promote lasting peace, the welfare of humankind and  development in a11 societies, by provoking new ideas, transferring knowledge, mobilizing both physical and  human resourccs and extending its co-operation. However, we have to do more in countries which, like my  own, are diverse in culture and confronted with the problems of poverty, illiteracy and economic backwardness  while the test of the world prepares for the twenty-first Century. 1 strongly believe that there is a need to reduce  the gap between the developed and developing countries.
4.5 Nepal believes that democracy is essential for peace and development. In this belief, the Nepalese  people fought for democracy for several years and eventually a multi-party system of democracy was re-  establishcd six years ago. This is fully in line with the ideals of those leaders of UNESCO who, 50 years ago,  established frecdom, dignity and justice as cardinal principles of the Organization. 1 would like to reiterate our  commitmcnt and express our support for UNESCO’s mission.
4.6 Countries like mine desperately need to become involved in the whole process of exchanging  knowledge, experience and expertise. Like other least-developed countries, we have specifïc problems and  situations. Diverse cultures, illiteracy, poverty, and traditional beliefs cal1 for special attention in order to bring  thesc problems to the notice of those who are in different situations SO that we may share experiences with the  rcst of the world and bring about improvements. Such kinds of interaction with other international communities  would help us in understanding the problems and in handling them effectively. UNESCO’s role should be to  strengthen national capacities to facilitate the whole process of sharing views and expertise, taking into account  the particular circumstances of the least-developed countries in the development process.
4.1 Mr President, we a11 agree that cducation enriches human resources through the development of  attitudes, values. knowledge and skills that contribute to the socio-economic development of a nation. The  devclopmcnt of human rcsources is a main function of education. Education is instrumental not only for  economic development but also for maintaining peace and sustaining democracy. A democratic political system  rcquircs the pcople to have the ability for critical thinking, tolerance and self-reliance. a11 of which cari be  inculcated through a competent educational system. In consonance with this belief, Nepal has initiated different  programmes in order to bring about changes in its educational system.
4.x Almost 14 per cent of the national budget is allocated to the education sector, and ovcr 50 per cent of  thc education budget goes to basic and primary education. Especially in the tïeld of primary education, WC have  already determined learning outcomes for the primary cycle with changes in the textbooks. Teacher-training  programmes bave been undertaken and school facilities bave been improved. We bave recently adopted a policy  whereby provision Will be made for at least one female teacher in each primary school. Nepal is committed to  promote girl-Child education, and this lias been demonstrated by making a separate provision in the budget to  providing monthly scholarships for girl-children studying in remote areas. In line with the same policy, we  havc initiated school feeding programmes in eight districts on a pilot basis. Various international agencies are  involved in the whole process. 1 again acknowlcdge UNESCO’s foresight in according high priority to thcse  development activities.
4.9 Mr President, as we approach the end of the twcntieth Century, we havc been able 10 achieve 40 per  cent literacy. Thcre is no need to mention how important education is for the development of a country. In the  light of this fact, and as one of the signatories to the 1990 Jomtien Declaration on Education for All, we are  giving emphasis to basic education. We are committed to achieving 70 per cent overall literacy and 60 per cent  female literacy by the year 2000. 1 am confident that UNESCO Will extend its full support to our campaign for  eradicating illiteracy.
4.10 It is obvious that UNESCO has been striving to provide equitable access to quality education. On the  basis of research studies and experiences, many changes have taken place in the mode of educational delivery.  The world faces new challenges. The time has corne to review the role of international organizations so that  they cari guide their Member States in effectively meeting the new challenges and achieving tangible results. 1  am sure that the General Conference Will ponder deeply on the role of UNESCO.
4.11 Nepal respects UNESCO’s efforts to protect the world cultural and natural heritage. We have  successfully completed the Nepalese chapter of the Buddhist Route Expedition, with UNESCO’s support, As a  representative of the country where Gautama Buddha was born, 1 would like to take this opportunity to renew  our request to UNESCO to place Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha, on the World Heritage List. Kathmandu,  the capital of Nepal, has many temples and monuments. We have been trying to modernize our society without  doing them any harm. 1 would like to thank UNESCO’s World Heritage Centre for its technical and fïnancial  contribution to the preservation of the temples and monuments in the Kathmandu Valley.
4.12 Mr President, we would like to endorse UNESCO’s commitment to improving science education,  specially at the university level, by improving curriculum, teacher training and exchange programmes. We  believe that this change, together with UNESCO’s intellectual co-operation, Will help us tope with  advancements in the field of science.
4.13 On this occasion, please allow me to thank UNESCO for its assistance to our emergency flood relief  programme last year, and for its valuable contribution to the strengthening of our National Library.
4.14 We indeed fully agree with UNESCO’s support for the reinforcement of the National Commissions.  Likewise, we believe that strong CO-ordination among UNESCO, UNICEF, UNDP and other international  agencies at the implementation level Will be highly useful. Thank you very much.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Honourable Minister. 1 now cal1 on His Excellency Mr Arnaldo Navoto, Minister of  Education of Mozambique.
6.1 M. NAVOTO (Mozambique) :  (discours prononcé en portugais, traduction française fournie par la délégation)  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur géneral, Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs,  j’ai l’honneur et le plaisir, au nom de la délégation de la République du Mozambique et en mon nom personnel,  de féliciter M. Krogh qui a été élu à l’unanimité président de la vingt-huitieme session de la Conférence  générale. Nous sommes convaincus que sa compétence et sa connaissance de l’UNESCO lui permettront dç  s’acquitter avec succès de son mandat
6.2 Nous savons gre au Conseil exécutif, et en particulier, a sa Présidente, Mme Inayatullah, du travail  qu’ils ont accompli.
6.3 Nous félicitons également le Directeur genéral de l’UNESCO pour le discernement et la sagesse avec  lesquels il dirige notre Organisation. Nous sommes heureux de l’attention qu’il a accordée aux pays de langue  officielle portugaise en créant au sein du Secrétariat une unité chargée de la coopération de ces pays avec  I’uNEsco.
6.4 Je ne peux que me i-e-jouir de la présence, en qualite d’Etat membre de l’UNESCO, d’un pays frère et  voisin. la Rtpublique sud-africaine, à cette vingt-huitième session de la Conférence générale. Macao, en se  joignant à la grande famille de l’UNESCO avec le statut de Membre associé, confirme notre conviction  concernant l’incontestable actualité du mandat de l’UNESCO.
6.5 Faire le bilan d’un demi-silcle de la vie d’une organisation ayant la vocation “d’élever les défenses de  la paix dans l’esprit des hommes” n’est pas une tâche facile, surtout quand la situation politique, économique et  sociale prévalant à la fïn du siècle est marquée par la détérioration des conditions de vie pour un grand nombre  d’habitants de la planète, par l’exclusion et par l’intolérance religieuse, ethnique et raciale.
6.6 L’UNESCO peut toutefois SC vanter d’avoir eté pendant ces cinquante ans l’artisan de la constitution  d’un patrimoine intellectuel, fondement des valeurs de la démocratie, de la solidarité et du respect entre les  peuples et les cultures dont l’actuel ordre mondial est issu.
6.7 La célébration de cet anniversaire est une occasion de rappeler que, de par sa vocation éthique?  l’UNESCO a pris une part active dans la lutte menée pour le droit à l’éducation, pour la démocratie et pour la  démocratisation culturelle dans les pays colonisés.
6.X Au Mozambique, dans le cadre de la coopération intellectuelle, l’UNESCO et ses organismes  subsidiaires, comme I’IIPE, ont participé à la mise en place des structures du système éducatif, à la formation de  responsables de l’éducation et à la création d’institutions comme l’Institut national de développement de  l’Éducation qui sont les bénéficiaires de l’action menée par l’Organisation en faveur du développement.
6.9 Je tiens personnellement à rendre hommage à l’UNESCO pour l’oeuvre magnifique mais parfois peu  visible qu’elle accomplit en favorisant le partage et la circulation des connaissances, car, au Mozambique,  beaucoup de responsables de l’éducation ont été formés grâce à l’Organisation et à l’Institut international de  planifïcation de l’Éducation.
6.10 L’élaboration de la loi sur le patrimoine culturel et l’inscription de l’île de Mozambique sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial constituent une inestimable contribution de la part de l’UNESCO.
6.11 Plus récemment, dans le cadre de la vaste opération des Nations Unies au Mozambique (ONUMOZ),  l’UNESCO s’est engagée dans le processus de pacification, de réconciliation et de démocratisation de la société  mozambicaine. L’apport de l’UNESCO à cet égard a été particulièrement important si l’on songe au lancement  du programme “Culture de la paix au Mozambique”, qui doit contribuer à crCer un climat propice au dialogue  entre les différents acteurs de la société mozambicaine. Pour mener à bien ce programme, les institutions  gouvernementales et la société civile mozambicaines ne se contentent pas du silence des armes, soucieuses  qu’elles sont de construire la nation mozambicaine, dont la richesse réside dans la diversité.
6.12 Quand nous avons sign& l’accord de paix à Rome, nous avons renoncé au fusil pour lui substituer non  sculemcnt la parole. le dialogue. mais aussi la houe: le crayon et le cahier, de manière à ce que la paix, ainsi  renforcée par l’éducation et la stabilité économique, soit durable.
6.13 Dans le cadre du programme “Culture de la paix”, le Mozambique, en collaboration avec l’UNE5C0,  s’engage à mener UIIC action préventive de Iàçon à éviter l’instauration d’un climat de “paix froide” caractkrisé  par l’intolkrance et la violence au quotidien cl dans la vie politique.
6.14 Ainsi. l’exécution du programme est conçue comme une contribution à la création d’un climat de paix  civile. dc s&uritC et de stabilité sociale, condition essentielle du développement.
6.15 Nous espérons qu’en 1996 et 1997, I’UNEWO intensifiera sa coopération pour la mise en oeuvre de ce  programme et que les ressources lïnancikres nécessaires à cette fin seront mobilisées.
6.16 Un des sujets les plus fréqucmmcnt abordés par les intervenants en sCance plénière est la StratCgic à  moyen terme qui fait l’ol$ct du 28 C/4. Le Mozambique souscrit aux principes qui ont inspiré ce document.  dont la paix et le développement constituent deux aspects profondément liés.
6.17 Je saisis cette occasion pour manifester la gratitude du gouvernement de la Rkpuhlique du  Mozambique, qui est heureux de la confiance témoignée à Mme Graça Machel, présidente de notre  Commission nationale, chargée de présider la Conférence “A l’écoute de l’Afrique”, du 6 au 10 fkvrier dernier.  Cette marque de confiance est le symbole et le fruit d’une collaboration fructueuse entre l’UNESCO et la  communauté intellectuelle de notre pays. Elle a sensibilisé les Mozambicaines qui, comme elle, prennent une  par1 active à la vie politique, économique et sociale du pays. Le Mozambique est un des pays africains qui  comptent, CII pourcentage, le plus de femmes parlementaires, cc malgré un taux élevé d’analphabétisme parmi  les femmes et les jeunes filles. Nous sommes heureux de constater que le programme de l’UNESCO donne la  priorité à l’accès des femmes à l’éducation et à leur rôle dans le domaine de la science et de la technologie.
6.18 Nous nous félicitons du caractère novateur et intégrC de la Stratkgie à moyen terme. La notion  d’éducation permanente orientée en priorité vers les “exclus” et la proposition d’instaurer une “société  éducative” méritent de retenir toute notre attention.
6.19 Le Mozambique est l’un des pays où lc taux de scolarisation est le plus bas (33 %), et le taux  d’analphab&tisme y est élevé, du fait de la colonisation et des 16 années de guerre qui ont suivi l’indé-pendante  nationale. Après les élections d’octobre 1994, le nouveau gouvernement a approuvé la politique nationale de  l’éducation et sa stratbgie de mise en oeuvre, dont les priorités sont l’élargissement de 1’accCs à l’éducation ct
212    l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement, l’accent étant mis sur l’éducation de base. Pour la concrétisation  de cette politique, nous comptons sur le soutien de l’UNESCO.
6.20 La priorité accordée à la formation des cadres a entraîné la création d’une Chaire de planilïcation et de  gestion de l’éducation à l’Institut pédagogique, en collaboration avec I’IIPE. Elle permettra de préparer des  spécialistes compétents dans les domaines de la formulation des politiques, de la planifïcation et de la gestion  de l’éducation. Ce projet, une fois consolide et renforcé, sera étendu aux pays de langue offïcielle portugaise. Il  sera fait appel pour ce faire au soutien de l’UNESCO.
6.21 Notre engagement en faveur de l’éducation est grand et nous sommes désireux d’améliorer la réforme  du système éducatif en cours. C’est pourquoi le Mozambique présente sa candidature au Conseil du BIE et  sollicite l’appui de tous les délégués présents.
6.22 Au Mozambique, nous suivons avec attention les travaux réalisés par la Commission présidée par  M. Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, et nous souhaiterions que des ressources soient consacrées à la diffusion et à  l’application des réflexions et des idées de cette commission au niveau de chaque pays ou sous-région.
6.23 Vous vous rappelez sans doute que dans le cadre de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel.  le Mozambique a proposé un projet intitulé les “Routes du fer” qui visait à promouvoir la relation entre la  culture et la technologie. Mon pays continue de s’intéresser vivement à ce projet et souhaiterait que des  ressources extrabudgétaires puissent être dégagées pour assurer son exécution conformément aux  recommandations des réunions d’Abuja qui ont eu lieu en 1995.
6.24 Nous considérons comme positive l’approche économique des rapports entre l’industrie, le patrimoine  et le tourisme culturel. A cet égard, nous émettons le voeu que l’Afrique orientale et l’Afrique australe  participent plus étroitement aux projets de cette nature, surtout dans le cadre de la SADC. Le gouvernement  mozambicain donne la priorité à la préservation du patrimoine culturel, en particulier de l’île de Mozambique,  et en tant que pays coordonnateur de la culture et de la communication au sein de la SADC, il a présenté sa  candidature pour la mise en oeuvre de la Convention pour la protection du patrimoine mondial culturel, et  naturel.
6.25 A l’initiative du Président de la République, M. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, le Mozambique a accueilli  en juillet 1994 le Forum présidentiel pour la science et la technologie en Afrique, à l’issue duquel I’AFRAND  (Fondation africaine pour la recherche et le développement) a été créée. Cela montre l’intérêt que mon pays  porte à la recherche scientifique et technologique, malgré ses faibles ressources financières.
6.26 Etant donné la crcation du Fonds pour le développement technologique de l’Afrique à Nairobi en avril
1994, nous souhaitons voir ces deux institutions coordonner leurs activités, en vue de promouvoir la science et  la technologie en Afrique et d’accomplir les tâches prioritaires deià identifiees sur le continent en évitant le  chevauchement et la dispersion des efforts.
6.27 L’action menée par le Mozambique dans le domaine des sciences l’a conduit à poser sa candidature au  Conseil international de coordination du programme MAB pour lequel il sollicite l’appui de toutes les  délégations présentes.
6.28 Nous tenons à exprimer notre gratitude pour l’ouverture d’un bureau de l’UNESCO au Mozambique.  Ce geste témoigne avec éloquence de l’engagement de l’UNESCO envers le peuple mozambicain et de sa foi en  notre désir de paix et notre volonté de réaliser un développement humain durable et harmonieux. En ce court  espace d’un an, la prcscncc de l’UNESCO au Mozambique s’est renforcée. Espérons que les institutions et les  communautés scientifique, intellectuelle et artistique du Mozambique pourront continuer à bénéficier de  l’heureuse conjonction des efforts déployés par l’UNESCO et la Commission nationale. Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Before 1 invite the next speaker to corne to the rostrum let me  remind you to make every effort to respect the eight-minute limit, which we havc established in order to ensure  that a11 delegations arc able to make their presentations appropriately. 1 now cal1 on Her Excellency Dr Marta  Di.jkhoff. Minister of Education, Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs of the Netherlands Antilles.
8.1 MS DIJKHOFF (Netherlands Antilles):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of me Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, 1 would like to join the other delegates in congratulating Mr Krogh on his election and  wish him strength and wisdom in t!re execution of this most responsible task. 1 also wish to express my  delegation’s deep appreciation to the Government and the people of France for their generous and friendly  reception.
8.2 1 also congratulate our distinguished Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, and his staff, whose  dedication to t!re cause of UNESCO bas proved to be a source of trust and inspiration, and has contributed  substantially to the ideals of UN!ZSCO. More particularly, my delegation would also like to congratulate  UNESCO warmly on its fiftieth anniversary.
8.3 We would also like to welcome me new Member States, especially the Associate Member State of  Macao and express to them our appreciation for taking us one step further towards the ideals of  universalization. We would like to mank UNESCO for the attention that is currently being paid to the small  island Member States, through the Unit for Relations with Small Member States. We hope that every effort Will  be made to sustain the work of this Unit.
8.4 Mr President. it is my country’s earnest desire as a participant in this Conference, that the twenty-  eighth session Will generate greater confidence and mutual understanding among peoples, thus faithfully  complying with the Organization’s objectives and principles as stated in the Preamble of its Constitution.
8.5 In our view, primary schooling is the main delivery system for basic education of children outside the  family. In recent years, therefore, we Ilave paid specia! attention to our primary schooling system in the  Netherlands Antilles. After a critica! evaluation of me present results, we produced a policy plan for a total  reform entitled ‘Steps Towards a Better Future’. The main objectives of our reform plans are more general basic  cducation that Will enable our children fully to participate in the cultural, social, economic and political life of  Antillean society. We are fully aware that major global changes make new demands on educational systems  worldwide.
8.6 We bave to mect thc changing technological demands of the twenty-first Century. We want to help  create a sense of civic duty and of public responsibility, patriotism and the awareness to monitor the democratic  process in our country. We want to give our people confidence in their own capacity and a sense of self-respect.  WC arc aware that this Will imply additional investments in t!rc modernization of our educational system. We  are. lmwever. bcnt on educating and preparing the next generation for me social and economic developments  and changes that lie ahead.
8.7 Our new educational policy plan includes three major changes in the present primai-y school system.  First of ah, WC want to provide basic compulsory education for a11 children for at least ten years. These ten  ycars of compulsory schooling Will be organized in three cycles: me fïrst cycle is for the age group from 4 to 8  years; the second is for the age group from 8 to 12 ycars; and me third is for the age group from 12 to 1.5 years.  It is our conviction that this system of cycles coincides better wit!i me natura! development proccss of children  than t!le existing system of grades.
8.8 The second major adjustment of our basic educational system is me use of the momer tongue as the  language of- instruction. Our native languages are Papiamentu and English. Papiamentu is spoken by the  leeward islands, while English is spoken by t!ie windward islands of t!ie Netherlands Antilles. At present,  Dutch is still used as the language of instruction throughout most of our educational system. This has a notably  negative effect on the overall results of students in a11 grades of primary and secondary schools.
8.9 The third major change in our educational system concerns the modernization of the content of the  training programme in science, mathematics and technology.
8.10 The training of teachers Will be part and parce! of thcse major changes in our educational system. TO  mis end, we are in me process of founding a new Faculty at the University of the Netherlands Antilles. The new  Faculty Will focus on higher studies of culture and linguistics and Will provide academic support for our  educational system reform plans.
8.11 Mr President, in November 1988, me Dutch Government and the Government of the Nctherlands  Antilles agreed on a protocol entitled ‘Action Willemstad’, which emphasizcd the preservation of the cultural  heritage of Willemstad, the capital of Curaçao. This protocol was placed in the context of me World Decade for
7  Cultural Development, and led to the creation of the Inter-Regional Committee, ‘Action Willemstad’. The main  objective of the protocol was to stimulate the establishment of the necessary structure for me preservation of thc  physical heritage of Willemstad. The Government of the Netherlands Antilles and the Netherlands have fïled a  forma1 request for placing ‘Historic Willemstad’ on the tentative list for the World Heritage. We are deeply  committed to this project and we have ta!cen tare of me basic rules and procedures to guarantee its success.
8.12 In 1989, the Government of the Netherlands Antilles formalized a preservation law, and a ‘Monument’  Plan. From 1991 to 1993, Action Willemstad did the necessary groundwork so mat restoration according to me  Plan could be set in motion. An important aspect of the whole process lias been the increase in public  awareness conceming Willemstad and its history. As a result, me preservation of monuments is now generally  perceived as a public necessity, both by experts and non-experts. A successful ‘open monuments day’ provided  the local population wit!r the unique opportunity of becoming acquainted with me historic heritage of  Willemstad. Recently, a workshop about the world heritage was held for local experts, while an international  restoration seminar Will be held early next year.
8.13 Mr President, another major project mat we have conducted successfully was ‘Carib Art’, a travelling  exhibition of works of art from 137 artists from the whole Caribbean region. This unique collection, launched  under the auspices of UNESCO, was started in me Netherlands Antilles in 1993 and subsequently taken 10  Aruba, the Cayman Islands and Bermuda, where it was exhibited and received with great enthusiasm. ‘Carib  Art’ was a manifestation of Caribbean cultural expression and our contribution to a better understanding among  the peoples of me Caribbean. We have made substantial investments and efforts to transmit the Caribbean  message where this project was concerned, and we therefore regret that our request to exhibit these works of art  at UNESCO Headquarters was turned down. It would have been an excellent opportunity to display the  creativity of the Caribbean sou1 and spirit. We shall, however, pursue our endeavours to help to internationalize  Caribbean art and culture. The most important follow-up action in mis context Will be research and  implementation of the history of the arts, viewed through Caribbean eyes. Funds for this ma,jor enterprise bave  already been made available by the European Union, to which the Caribbean community is most gratefu!. We  hope to bave this project completed by 1998.
8.14 In conclusion, Mr President, we would like to inform you that our celebration of me fïftieth  anniversary of UNESCO, our modest contribution towards fullïlling the ideals of me Organization, is geared  towards the promotion of tolerance among the multicultural societies of the Netherlands Antilles. Thank you  very much.
9. Thc PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on the Minister of Education of Romania, His Excellency  Professor Liviu Maior.
10.1 Mr MAIOR (Romania):  Madam Chairperson, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, lct me first of a11  assure the UNESCO General Conference and Mr Federico Mayor, me Director-General, that they Will have in  Romania and its National UNESCO Commission, our strong support and full commitment for the  implementation of the Organization’s Medium-Term Strategy and for promoting UNESCO’s strategy in the  twenty-fïrst Century vision of democracy, tolerance, human rights, international understanding, education for  a11 and lifelong education.
10.2 The General Conference of UNESCO is held this year under the signs of contradictory trends. On the  whole, the following phenomena deserve attention: Firstly, me cultural, political and economic globalization,  which makes more necessary than ever co-operation, understanding and partnership. Secondly, the persistencc  of some major problems of mankind, which Will remain the chief challenges of the end of this Century - for  example: ecological deterioration, poverty, social and economic inequalities, military conflicts, illiteracy,  fundamentalism, racism, chauvinism. TO these problems we have to add the breakdown of basic values such as  family, nation and civic duty which in the past ensured social cohesion. Thirdly, the emcrgence of me new  democracies and the generalization of me democratic transition process. In most countries of the world,  democracy has become the basic political option. Beyond the fact of being a sign of the ‘end of history’, the  democratic transition is a global phenomenon which, on a11 continents, Will deeply mark a11 societies,  institutions and social groups.
10.3 Romania is one of the Central and East-European countries deeply involved in the process of  democratic reforms. At me end of the first fïve years of this process, at least two mings may be seen.
10.4 On one hand, we are aware that none of mese models or the models of omer countries cari be followed  exactly by a simple intercultural transfer. Thus, we have understood that, even if we draw inspiration and lcarn  from the experience of others, the essential element is still our capacity to mobilize national resources, among  which creativity, management and social organization play a special role.
10.5 In t!re second place, on the occasion of a recent assessment carried out by the Government of Romania,  it was contïrmed mat the reform of education should take precedence over other sectoral reforms.
10.6 Although during the fïrst years of transition, we werc obliged to solve urgent problems and to stabilize  an cducational system deeply affected by the political changes which had occurred in 1989, from 1993 we  started a coherent reform programme. Without waiting for the effect of the economic and social reforms, but  against the favourable background of the legislative and political reforms, we succeeded within me short period
1993-1995. in achieving four main objectives, namely: t!re deiinition of a coherent education policy, adapted to  me ncw rcalitics; t!re involvement of external partners in the co-Bnancing of educational reform, in me lïrst  instance of the World Bank and of the European Union; the restructuring of the education sector strictly  speaking. especially of its key-components: curricula, textbooks, assessment, teacher training, management and  fïnancing of education; the adoption of me new law on education. The New Education Act is in line with the  most advanccd international standards in the field, and promotes an educational ideal which is animated by the  deepest humanistic values. TO our mind, it provides an answer to at least three major questions facing me  integration process, namely:  How cari school and education provide knowledge, while also securing thc acquisition of those  necessary competencies and attitudes for t!re Young generations to live in a world of increased  interdependencies, divcrsity, rapid and permanent change - an informatized world?  How cm school and education contributc to bringing peoples closer together, to promoting a common  European identity and responsibility?  How cari scl~oo! and education acl in favour of respect for human rights and for the principles of a  pluralist dcmocracy’?
10.7 T!]e complex reforms in which Romania is cngagcd rest on thc threc pillais in which UNESCO lias  competencc. 1 rcfer to the trio - Education - Culture - Science. Indeed, it is increasingly obvious mat no  democracy and no development action cari function without these basic levers of civilization.
10.8 In Romania, a country with very ancient cultural traditions, we are concerned with thc preservalion,  knowledge and development of our cultural heritage. UN!ZSCO’s contribution was also very signifïcant in these  las1 years and we express our gratitude in this respect. It is also, thanks to UNESCO, that our historical  monuments, t!ie contribution of Romanian artists and our specific manner of expression and interprctation  became more accessible to t!ie world.
10.9 During thc currcnt ycar, Romania has hosted scveral prestigious international events in me lïeld of  cducation, science and culture, on the occasion of me fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO. They were attended by  over 500 foreign participants from more than 50 countries. Mention should be made of the ‘Dinu Lipatti’  Festival, IKW in its third edition, and of the international competition for young musicians organized wiihin ils  framework; thc International Festival of Byzantine Music; and various professiona! competitions.
10.10 The Romanian Government lias also shown strong concern: duly recognizcd by t!m Executivc Board of  UNESCO, for an increased role and a consolidated structure for the European Centre for Higher Education  (CEPES). We regard the Centre as an efficient institution in promoting co-operation among the countries of  Europe in their efforts to modernize higher education and place il within a vision of gcnerous international  solidarity.
10.11 Morcover, educdtion in the spirit of tolerance, culture of peace, democracy, human rights and  international understanding lias top ranking in me Romanian school strategy. An eflïcient mcans of promotion  of these concepts was the organization mis year for the !ïrst time in Romania of the ‘games of peace’, suggested  by UNESCO, which - in our opinion - should bc institutionalized by the General Confercncz through a regular  programme of annual events.
10.12 Likewise, the reconsideration of history teaching in the spirit of peace and not of war and inter-ethnie  hostility, is a major desideratum. A contribution in this respect Will be made by the international seminar  devoted to ‘The Cultures of the East under Totalitarianism’ to be held in Romania in 1996.
10.13 In the same setting of international co-operation promoted by UNESCO, we bave actively contributed  to the integration of education in the European context, our concern being to improve the systems of  accreditation and quality assessment of highcr education, a fact which - in our opinion - represents the basis for  the recognition of university diplomas at the international level.
10.14 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 bave tried to bring to your attention some of our conccrns, some of the  problems of a country which prepares to meet the transition between the two millennia with a new image. What  we are undertaking is neither easy nor simple. But it is essential at this moment of our history.
10.15 We are sure that other nations, too, are concerned with similar problems. Therefore, we are convinced  that this unique forum which is the General Conference of UNESCO Will offer the opportunity of fruitful  exchanges, consultations, approaches and co-operation, a11 of which are absolutely necessary to the  international intellectual communily.
10.16 In this perspective, please allow me to wish thc twenty-eighth session of the General Conference of  UNEZSCO success in its proceedings.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on the Minister of Education of Tunisia, His Excellency  Mr Hatem Ben Othman.
(12.1) Mr BEN OTHMAN (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, heads and members of delegations, permit me to extend to you, Mr President, my warmest  congratulations on the vote of confidence you have received through your election as President of the General  Conference, and to thank the Chairperson and Members of the Executive Board for their continua1 and tireless  efforts over the past two years, which have made it possible to establish a framework which Will ensure the  success of this Conference. 1 should also like to express my utmost appreciation and respect for the Director-  General, whom we esteem and revere as a man of intellect and action, who believes in principles and works  actively to entrench them, who is strongly attached to UNESCO’s historic mission while being conscious of the  even greater challenges currently facing humankind and UNESCO. 1 also thank the members of the Secretariat for  their constant endeavours in the execution of the Organization’s projects and programmes.
(12.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the session for which we have now gathered has special  significance in view of the Organization’s celebration of its fiftieth anniversary, the anniversary of the rebirth that  in 1945 gave hope to SO many people who were then suffering from the calamities of colonialism, want and  ignorance. For UNESCO has played an effective role, has been a mainstay for many countries and provided a  unique incentive to many cultures, which have thus adopted modern ways of thinking, corne together and enriched  one another.
(12.3) Tunisia, which has undertaken to root itself firmly in the modern age, bas taken its own culture as the  basis of its identity and personality, while at the same time using its openness to other cultures, peoples,  languages and civilizations, to interact with, enrich and benefit from those cultures. It has found in UNESCO’s  programmes a framework for sound co-operation which has gradually developed, taken root and borne fruit. The  Carthage Charter on Tolerance in the Mediterranean bears witness to the strength of our co-operation with  UNESCO and to the choices that Tunisia has made since the political change of 7 November 1987, in furtherance  of the principles of justice, freedom, human rights and tolerance within the framework of a democratic choice  which affords the individual the right to a life of dignity and to freedom of expression, and in which political  partners, organizations and associations may play an effective role in building civil society.
(12.4) This choice left its mark on the educational reform advocated by President Zine Al Abidine Ben Ah  following that change. Human rights have become a regular subject in which pupils learn about their rights and  obligations; they thus grow up believing that diversity is a blessing and a necessity, they reject violence, religious  extremism, terrorism and discrimination on the grounds of sex, colour or religion, they adopt rationalism as their  code of conduct and behaviour, they respect the law and public institutions, and they work for the good of their  country. Furthermore, the curricula of the other humanities subjects have become permeated with common and  enduring humanitarian values, based on tolerance, solidarity, openness, justice and peace.
(12.5) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, educational reform in Tunisia is an integral part of overall reform  aimed at the advancement of society. When advancement was dependent on learning and winning the knowledge  stakes, our efforts were focused on ensuring compulsory education. The law then ensured sufficient public  awareness in order to achieve the desired aim. We are now proud of our achievements and Will continue to work  for a study ready in the drop-out and failure rates SO that we cari achieve integrated, well-balanced and continuing  education for Tunisia’s children while preserving the standard and value of our qualifications.
(12.6) We are delighted to find this kind of approach included for discussion by our Conference under the  ma.jor programmes. It lias fallen to a committee of experts and specialists to examine the prospects for lifelong  education for all, which in our opinion ii; only right if basic education is reaffirmed, if the entire generation is  included. if the same opportunities are providcd, curricula are developed, initia1 and in-service teacher training  are enhanced, and continuous and meticulous instruction is provided through today’s vast array of state-of-the-art  educational and instructional material. We are convinced that UNESCO is capable of playing an important role in  this respect, with the support of its worldwide network of offices and of helping to take advantage of the  information superhighways, which if properly exploited may serve knowledge well.
(12.7) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there is room in a constantly changing worlcl only  for those who keep pace with it. Keeping pace with the world is primarily a cultural act. Since science is the basis  of world development, we have vowed to adopt it. We have supported the teaching of science and have clevoted  attention to basic training in various scientific disciplines; we have also linked universities more closely to their  environment in order to enable them to contribute to economic and social development. This approach has had a  positive impact on our co-operative relations, which we have established in accordance with the principle of  partnership, and has enabled us to develop our means of production, Select suitable products ancl maintain  beneficial industries. While striving to consolidate this approach, we believe in the importance of raising such  issues in a framework of consultation and debate at such a conference, which has chosen to emphasize the
219    importance of using science to achieve global development. We stress the need to adopt practical resolutions in  this field and to seek to implement them as expeditiously as possible SO that we do not miss any opportunities  which may he difficult to seize in such a rapidly changing and innovative world.
(12.8) Mr President, iadies and gentlemen, WC a11 know how beneficiai resolutions cari he. We a11 know too  that resolufions Will only work if they are implemented quickly ami precisely according to a specific plan with  clear parameters. We therefore cal1 for sustained efforts to implement the resolutions adopted hy the  Organization, therehy legitimating its existence. In this connection, we respectfully urge the implementation of  rcsolutions relating to the cultural and educational institutions in the occupied Arab territories and Jerusalem, to  the cultural and architectural heritage and the cultural and educational institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to  UNESCO’s contribution to peace-building, to support for human rights, to improving the situation of women, ami  to comhating racism and a11 forms of injustice, extremism and discrimination.
(12.9) Thc Organization is called upon today, ladies anci gentlemen, on the eve of the twenty-first Century, to  consider enhancing its methods of work SO that its fiftieth anniversary celebrations may be a starting-point for the  estahlishment of a new project which is geared to the next Century and which may help Member States to get the  most out of the information superhighways, modern science, heneficial innovations and comprehensive  development. at the same time as the Organization concerns itself with various cultures, making them better  known and helping to protect them and preserve their particular cultural characteristics and humanistic values.  Thc SUCCCRS of SUC~ a plan Will require the active support of a11 and the provision of the necessary funds, while  çnsuring that the hulk of budget expenditure is on the major programmes rather than on one-off operations of  limited duration and henefit.
(12.10) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we very much hope that this anniversary Will serve to open up new  horizons, as we recognize the importance of the responsibility we shoulder, as we endeavour constantly to be  worthy of the hopes of our peoples and the aspirations of future generations, and as we strive earnestly fol  openness and rapprochement and the sound establishment of the principles of justice, freedom, peacc and  sccurity. 1 pray that we may he succcssful in our work. Thank you for your kind atteniion.
13. Thc PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. and thank you in particular for your excellent attempt to respect the time-limit. 1 now  cal1 on His Exccllency Mr Paul Mertz, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Luxembourg.
14.1 M. MERTZ (Luxembourg) :  Monsieur lc Président. Monsieur Ic représentant du Directeur général. Mesdames et Messieurs, je tiens  d’abord 5 excuser Mme Hennicot, ministre de la culture ct de l’éducation de mon pays, qui aurait CU grand  plaisir h venir parmi nous. mais qui. malheureusement, a eu un empêchement à la dernit’re minute. JC vous  présente ses excuses.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, à la veille du cinquantiCme anniversaire de l’UNESCO. il convient sans doute  de réfléchir sur le mandat que ses fondateurs ont confié à l’UNESCO et qui est clairement défini dans son Acte  conslitutif : “... Atteindre graduellement, par la coopération des nations du monde dans les domaines de  l’éducation. de la science ct de la culture, les buts de paix internationale et de prospérité commune de  l’humanité en vue desquels l’Organisation des Nations Unies a été constituée, et que sa Charte proclame.” Le  mandat ainsi dkfïni demeure toujours actuel dans un monde marqué par une recrudescence des nationalismes,  des conllits ethniques. des intégrismes et des oppressions rcligieuscs ou culturelles.
14.3 Plus que jamais, l’UNESCO doit pouvoir assumer ses multiples rôles. Forum intellectuel et force  mobiiisatrice, cile doit accroître son impact sur l’opinion publique par le biais des commissions nationales,  élargir son audience auprès des gouvernements par une cooplration suivie avec les délégations permancnlcs,  renforcer son influence sur le plan international par uni: association encore plus étroite à l’action dc I’ONU.  Dans un monde menacé par le divorce entre la science et l’éthique, elle doit également être I’instancc  mondialement reconnue qui saura favoriser le dialogue entre les culturçs au seuil du XXIe siècle.
14.4 En tant que porte-parole de mon gouvernement, j’adhère pleinement au projet dc Stratégie à moyeu  terme pour contribuer au dheloppemcnt et à 1’6difïcation de la paix. Je souscris donc à la nhssité d’apporter  des réponses concrhs aux besoins et aux aspirations des quatre groupes prioritaires que constituent les  femmes, les jeunes, les pays les moins avancés et l’Afrique. L’UNESCO doit contribuer à cc que les écarts ne  continuent pas à se creuser. Cette démarche s’impose et s’applique deia à l’intérieur de l’Organisation ellc-  mCme. L’effort de communication envers les jeunes générations et leurs perspectives d’association au travail de  l’Organisation est une des forces de cette dernière. Les efforts pour promouvoir les femmes aux postes dc  responsabilit6 méritent d’être encouragés. Enfin, l’Organisation a fait le choix de continuer à insister sur la  nécessité de l’engagement effectif de tous ses Etats membres.
14.5 Je tiens également à saluer les ouvertures effectuées vers d’autres organisations : la convention avec la  CEE, l’accord de coopération avec I’UIT en sont des exemples reussis. Ces cautions sont en effet indispensables  si nous voulons que l’UNESCO puisse poursuivre les projets qui l’animent. Il me semble ainsi qu’au moment où  une partie du monde industrialisé s’apprête à entrer dans ce qu’il est convenu d’appeler la societé de  l’information, seul un organe comme l’UNESCO est à même de développer - par son autorité, son expérience et  son savoir-faire - le rôle d’interface qui permet d’eviter, d’un côté la dérive d’un developpement technologique  non maîtrisé et de l’autre, la perte de confiance en soi et l’effacement de la capacité d’agir comme strict  autonome et respecté. Je voudrais, dans ce contexte, me référer au Président Mandela et au message qu’il a  délivré récemment à Genève à l’occasion du 130e anniversaire de 1’UIT : “Si plus de la moitié du monde IIC peut  avoir accès aux moyens de communication, les peuples des pays en développement ne feront pas pleinement  partie du monde moderne, car au XXIe siècle la capacité de communiquer sera presque certainement un droit  de l’homme fondamental”. Ce sont des paroles auxquelles il faut souscrire pleinement. L’aflirmation de soi, la  prise de conscience de ses capacités et de ses responsabilités passent par la capacité de se faire entendre, de se  faire comprendre.
14.6 A ccl égard, je voudrais saluer l’engagement de l’UNESCO dans l’claboration et la mise CII oeuvre du  Programme d’action adopté par la quatrième Conférence mondiale sur les femmes. 11 me paraît  particulièrement significatif que la plate-forme de Beijing ait mentionné parmi les droits fondamentaux et les  libertés de la femme, le droit et la possibilité pour les femmes d’agir sur leur image dans les médias. Sans cet  apport décisif, la société dc l’information que j’appelle de mes voeux ne nous apportera pas la liberté qu’cllc  nous fait miroiter.
14.7 Mon gouvernement a donc décidé de soutenir pleinement le Programme international pour le  développement de la communication (PIDC) ; il estime que le secteur de la communication, de l’information et  de l’informatique mérite d’Être renforcé. Mais au-delà de cette approche sectorielle, il nous semble approprié  d’insister sur le renforcement à l’intérieur de l’Organisation des approches intersectorielles et interdisciplinaires.
14.8 Monsieur le Président, la délégation de mon pays approuve la volonté de renforcer les commissions  nationales “en les dotant du statut, de l’autorité et des ressources nécessaires à leur fonctionnement efficace”.  L’UNESCO a besoin des commissions nationales pour transmettre son action aux forces vives, intellectuelles,  culturelles et scientifiques des Etats membres. Dans cette optique, je ne voudrais pas passer sous silence  I’engagcment de la Commission nationale luxembourgeoise qui, avec des ressources limitées, a toujours su  assurer la présence de l’UNESCO au Grand-Duché.
14.9 La visitc du Directeur général n’a pas manqué de susciter chez les responsables luxembourgeois une  détermination renouvelée d’oeuvrer pour les valeurs que défend l’UNESCO. Ainsi, le Premier Ministre a  souligné au cours de la visite officielle, sa volonté de renforcer les efforts du Luxembourg sur le plan de la  coopération. Plusieurs projets sont en cours de réalisation ; je citerai notamment une participation  luxembourgeoise à la sauvegarde de Jéricho, projet à finalités multiples destiné en même temps à promouvoir la  paix, à sauvegarder un patrimoine inestimable, à favoriser l’insertion des jeunes et à promouvoir le tourisme  culturel et spirituel. En collaboration avec le Ministère de l’éducation nationale, la Commission veut renforcer  la presence de l’UNESCO dans les écoles. Elle entend s’associer à nouveau à des séminaires et colloques,  notamment à un projet de séminaire à Luxembourg sur les langues les moins répandues. Ce projet s’inscrit dans  le programme Linguapax et porterait sur les solutions linguistiques applicables au problème de l’intolérance. La  Commission soutient également un projet interuniversitaire sur l’histoire mondiale de la médecine et les  problernes éthiques de la recherche médicale ainsi que l’idée de créer à Luxembourg, en collaboration avec le  Conseil de l’Europe et l’UNESCO, un centre pour la gestion et la promotion des circuits culturels.
14.10 Monsieur le Président. à une époque où le progrès lui-même risque de nourrir des régressions,  l’engagement de l’UNESCO en faveur de la diffusion et du partage du savoir est plus que jamais indispensable.  Après cinquante années d’expériences, faites d’avancées mais aussi de désillusions, je forme le voeu que  l’UNESCO continue à affronter avec audace les défis de la connaissance. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on His Excellency Mr Khamtanh Chanthala, Vice-Minister  for Education of the Lao People’s Dcmocratic Republic.
16.1 M. CHANTHALA (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président,  de me joindre aux orateurs qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune pour exprimer à M. Krogh toutes mes félicitations  à l’occasion de son élection, et de former le voeu que, sous sa présidence, les travaux de la vingt-huitième  Conférence générale soient couronnés de succès.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, nous nous réunissons de nouveau cette année, non seulement pour faire le bilan  de ce qui a été réalisé au cours du dernier exercice biennal et pour examiner le Projet de programme et de  budget pour 1996-1997 comme il est de coutume, mais aussi pour discuter du projet de Stratégie à moyen terme  pour 1996-2001 et célébrer le cinquantième anniversaire de notre Organisation.
16.3 A l’occasion de cette importante célébration, permettez-moi, au nom du gouvernement de la  République démocratique populaire lao, de féliciter l’UNESCO pour les efforts qu’elle a déployés en faveur de  la paix, de la prospérité et de la sécurité par la coopération intellectuelle entre ses membres, conformément à  l’esprit de la Charte des Nations Unies,
16.4 Certes, au cours de ces cinq décennies écoulées, l’UNESCO n’a pu répondre à toutes les attentes  placées en elle. Mais elle n’en a pas moins contribué, tout au long de cette période, à faire reculer les conflits à  l’échelle planétaire. Ainsi notre Organisation a-t-elle non seulement servi de cadre à la réconciliation  progressive entre certains groupes de pays, mais encore permis de développer une affinité de réseaux de  communication, d’échanges, de coopération et d’action dans les domaines les plus divers, favorisant ainsi le  rapprochement entre les peuples du monde entier et entre leurs cultures.
16.5 Monsieur le Prksident, en ce qui concerne mon pays, la République démocratique populaire lao,  l’action de l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’éducation s’est révélke globalement positive. Je constate avec  satisfaction qu’elle a directement ou indirectement, par son rôle de catalyseur, contribué au développement de  l’enseignement primaire en vue de sa généralisation en l’an 2000, au développement de l’éducation non formelle  pour les populations défavorisées et les minorités ethniques, à l’adaptation de l’enseignement technique et  professionnel aux besoins nouveaux de l’économie et au regroupement des établissements d’enseignement  supérieur en Université nationale. Dans le domaine de la culture, sa contribution porte aussi bien sur la  préservation que sur la protection du patrimoine culturel et naturel.
16.6 S’il m’est agréable, en tant qu’Etat membre. de souligner le bilan globalement positif de notre  Organisation, il nous faudrait cependant réfléchir sur son action future.
16.7 La situation internationale, marquée par des évolutions rapides et la persistance de problèmes  pressants, et la vocation même de notre Organisation, doivent l’inciter à continuer de progresser sur de  nombreuses voies : concentration des activités en vue d’une plus grande effïcacitk, mais surtout redéfinition plus  cohérente des actions ; décentralisation des prqjets lorsque cela est possible ; concertation avec les autres  institutions des Nations Unies et spécialement avec l’UNICEF et le PNUD ; contribution spécifique à la mise en  oeuvre des conclusions de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur l’environnement, du Sommet mondial pour  l’enfance, du Sommet mondial sur le dkveloppement social et, tout dernièrement, de la Conférence mondiale  sur les femmes ; recherche de rkponses à l’attente prioritaire des pays en développement et en particulier des  pays les moins avancés ; poursuite de la rationalisation des méthodes de travail et de son fonctionnement.
16.8 En ce qui concerne le projet de Stratégie à moyen terme, ma délégation donne son assentiment à  l’essentiel des propositions qu’il contient. Sa conception autour de deux axes organiquement liés, à savoir “le  développement pour la paix et la paix pour le développement” comme l’a dit M. le Directeur général de  l’UNESCO, nous paraît fort appropriée. D’autre part, la priorité accordée à l’éducation permanente pour tous  nous semble tout à fait justifiée, car elle témoigne de la permanence des valeurs qui pourraient donner un  véritable sens à l’action, en faveur par exemple de la défense des droits de l’homme, la paix, l’accès à  l’information et au savoir, le respect des diversités culturelles. Mais s’il nous faut continuer de souligner le rôle  intellectuel de l’UNESCO, notre but est aussi d’être concret et d’agir soit avec nos moyens propres, soit comme  catalyseur en mobilisant les partenaires et les ressources extrabudgétaires, et de faire en sorte que les activités  de fond touchent de façon croissante les communautés de base dans les Etats membres.
16.9 En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain exercice biennal, ma  délégation souscrit également à l’essentiel des propositions faites. En effet. en privilégiant la lutte contre  l’analphabétisme et la généralisation de l’éducation fondamentale, conformément aux recommandations de la
222    Conférence mondiale sur l’éducation pour tous, et en mettant l’accent sur les liens entre le monde professionnel  et l’enseignement technique et professionnel, notre Organisation aura fait un choix judicieux. Dans le même  ordre d’idées, nous appuyons pleinement le projet de statuts du Comité régional sur l’éducation en Asie et dans  le Pacifique, créé à l’initiative de la Conférence des ministres de l’éducation et des ministres chargés de la  planification économique en Asie et dans le Pacifique lors de sa sixième session tenue à Kuala Lumpur, et dejà  approuvé par le Conseil exécutif. D’autre part, nous soutenons la poursuite des activités du programme “Gestion  des transformations sociales” (MOST), mais souhaitons qu’un budget substantiel lui soit alloué.
16.10 Permettez-moi, pour terminer, de réitérer notre foi dans les destinées de l’UNESCO et dans notre  capacité collective d’adapter l’Organisation à ses objectifs, à ses moyens, et au rôle qui lui est réservé dans la  recherche de solutions aux problemes auxquels l’humanité est confrontée.
16.11 Je voudrais encore une fois exprimer mes voeux les plus ardents pour le succès de cette conférence.  pour le renforcement de la coopération intellectuelle et de la solidarité entre les peuples. Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
17. Mr PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on Her Excellency MS Aracely Abigail Castro de Pérez, Vice-  Minister for Education of El Salvador.
(18.1) MS CASTRO de PEREZ (El Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation wishes to extend its sincere and cordial  congratulations to Mr Krogh on his ele’ction as President of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference  of UNESCO. It is confident that under his sound guidance we shall manage to produce the most constructive  resolutions in order that, in the coming biennium, the Organization may fulfil the tasks it has set itself. El  Salvador also expresses its gratitude to the Director-General, whose competent leadership has been decisive in  increasing the efficiency and prestige of UNESCO, and cordially greets the peoples of the countries represented  here.
(18.2) This gathering takes place at a time when we are still celebrating the United Nations Year for  Tolerance. in which our aim has been to move steadfastly towards the building worldwide of harmony in diversity  through mutual respect and understanding, for the benefit of a11 members of the human family.
(18.3) In El Salvador, a country without great ethnie or religious differences, we were the victims for 12 years  of mutual intolerance based on ideological positions but, with a supreme effort of rationality, correcting the errors  of the past, we achieved peace within a broad-based consensus. TO secure and consolidate it, we cari rely on the  skilled mediation and support of the United Nations. Now, after a conflict that was the most disruptive  experience in our history, we are heading for the complete elimination of any remaining spirit of intolerancc. In  this undertaking education Will play a fundamental part su& that the culture of peace Will inform the daily livcs  of our people. In fostering this culture of peace we bave received support from UNESCO and we believe mat, in  our own modest way, we have helped other peoples by showing them our experience of transition from a phase of  radical intolerance to another that cari only be described as one of solidarity and harmonious coexistence.
(18.4) We have set out to give precedence to developing education in a far-reaching plan surmounting the  traditional short-term views that for SO long kept us in a constant makeshift posture. We are bringing about an  educational reform to be seen not as an isolated set of measures but as an ongoing process sustained by State  policies, though recognizing that its achicvement demands a hefty dose of political Will.
(1 X.5) With a view to overhauling education to rid it of its historical shortcomings in terms of both quality and  quantity, the President of the Republic, Dr Calderon Sol, called on a group of 12 citizens of different ideological  approaches and professional fields in October 1994 to form a National Commission on Education, Science and  Development in order to supply us with the main lines of emphasis and starting-points for our educational reform.  The Commission recently delivered to the President of the Republic - and through him to the nation - its proposa1  entitled Transforming education for peace and development in El Salvador’, which the Ministry of Education is  now using as a basis - among other inputs - in working out the operative details of the educational reform. It is a  source of great satisfaction to me that quite a few of the proposals we are including in our reform plan coincide  and are identified with some of the main educational criteria and guidelines shared by friendly nations and at  present in circulation.
(1 X.6) We recognize the need both for a substantial increase in education budgets and for the moderniration  and maximum efficiency of the bodies administering education. We know that the supreme effort Will have to be  made in social and educational strategies in order to contain the inordinately high drop-out rates. We also  consider that people may be trained by means of knowledge alone, without moral and spiritual substance, but they  cannot be improved thereby.
(1 X.7) Our educational proposa1 sets out to foster human dcvelopment with equity. An education for a11 is a  mcans of combating poverty. In our reform we are banking on teachers. We know that the State and society in  general have not given the teaching profession the consideration it deserves, despite the abundant lip service  always paid to it. For that reason, the place it now occupies on the pay scale dcpends not on the level at which  teaching is exercised but on academic training and actual performance.
(1 X.X) ln line with current decentralizing trends, we have taken measures to transfer educational management  to schools themselves and their communities, thereby shortening the frustrating chain of bureaucratie
22s    intermediaries. In reality, any gond idea we have for improving educational processes Will just be one more good  intention if not given practical expression in the community itself. The community, being at the receiving end of  education programmes, must at the same time be a source of vitality. Our education programme with community  participation (EDUCO Programme) has removed many traditional administrative blockages. Under it funds are  transferred to associations of parents and neighbours organized in the locality, and these people hire their  teachers, purchase teaching materials and see to school maintenance. Such measures increase citizens’ capacity  for the joint management of education and build up practical democratic experience, but above a11 they promote  greater interaction between school and community.
(18.9) We have observed that the most persistent factors adversely affecting the education system and causing  drastically high rates of absenteeism and drop-out actually have nothing to do with the system itself. Although  such outside factors are complex and interact with the social and economic environment, we have devised a  strategy intended to make forma1 education more at one with its surroundings, using a combination of  multidisciplinary and inter-institutional activities that help to counter factors that are detrimental to performance  at school though distinct from education itself. This programme, called ‘Escuela Saludable’ (healthy school),  enjoys the participation of the Ministries of Education and Health, together with that of the National Secretariat  for Family Affairs, which co-ordinates it. ‘Escuela Saludable’ provides basic health tare for pupils, vitamin and  minera1 supplements, and, where necessary, prostheses. It also includes snacks or meals. Another of its  components is the development of an infrastructure for school hygiene in order to create a healthy environment  for pupils.
(18.10) 1 wish to avail myself of the opportunity afforded hy this meeting to express sincere gratitude to the  Government of Spain for the high quality of its technical assistance and for its timely and substantial financial  contribution.
(18.11) The consultation process conducted with a view to enhancing the educational reform movement is  unprecedented in El Salvador. In a structured and systematic manner the national community was given a hearing  on three ma.jor themes: the quality of education, the coverage of the system, and administrative improvements.  The consultation was attended by serving teachers, retired teachers, pupils in public and private education,  parents, teachers’ associations, technical personnel of the Ministry of Education, public planners from several  departments, mayors, private education centres, and universities, in addition to representatives of private  enterprise. The contribution of the aforesaid Commission on Education, Science and Development is part of this  m+jor effort that we cal1 ‘Consulta 95’ for the reform of education.
(18.12) In the process of modernizing the sector, we have carried out studies and experiments to transform the  role of the State and ensure that it assumes more of a standard-setting function and gradually hands over  administrative and academic management to the educational institutions themselves in order that, freed of their  traditional bureaucratie trammels, they may take advantage of their own vitality and the resources allocated to  them directly. We consider that alternative forms of educational service provision must henceforth he  strengthened and expanded through the growing participation of such institutions as municipalities, churches,  non-governmental organizations and private organizations.
(18.13) Another premise of our reform has heen the promotion of genuine and extensive responsiveness to the  media. We believe that education Will truly progress with the support and goodwill of the entire population.  Favourahle public opinion is a factor that Will weigh in the success of the reform. We are gratified by the fact that  the theme of education is now a daily feature in the media, something which has helped to make it a constant  subject of debate in a11 sectors of national life.
(18.14) Mr President, distinguished delegates, now that 1 have had the honour of outlining to you some facets of  our management of education, it only remains for me to express my earnest desire that this twenty-eighth session  of UNESCO’s General Conference may constitute a step forward on the path of educational progress in a11  nations. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on Mr Enele Sopoaga, Permanent Secretary of Health,  Education and Human Resources Development of Tuvalu, who Will address the General Conference on behalf  of the Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
20.1 Mr SOPOAGA (Tuvalu):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all 1 wish to extend to you Mr President, Mr Director-General and  Honourable delegates, representatives of Member States to the Conference, the warm greetings of the Prime  Minister of Tuvalu, the Honourable Kamuta Latasi, who was very keen to participate in this Conference but has  been unable to do SO because of urgent matters at home. 1 therefore have the privilege and honour to present to  this august conference a summary of his statement. It is indeed an honour and a privilege for Tuvalu to  participate in the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference and to be able to address this distinguished
226    forum. This particular session of the General Conference is of historic significance as it coincides with the  fiftieth anniversary of the founding of UNESCO.
20.2 This session of the General Conference is therefore an important event and also a unique occasion for  the international community at large to take stock of the contribution UNESCO has made to the consolidation  and development of international co-operation for the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. As part of  the celebrations, it is necessary for us to engage in a sustained analysis of UNESCO’s past and present and thus  to shape its future. If such an analysis is to be of any use, it should be critical and not self-congratulatory. Only  thus shall we be able to give UNESCO the profile it should have to tope with the challenges of the future.
20.3 In marking 50 years of UNESCO, let us convey to the international community our conviction that we  are assembled here to pursue a common goal for a11 and to set out priorities which Will define a global course  for UNESCO to sustain and to consolidate peace. On my part let me assure you of the faith our people bave in  UNESCO’s capability to achieve its goals and our highest commitment to the causes it upholds. Indeed,  Tuvalu’s commitment to UNESCO is very high. Our per capita contribution to UNESCO is the second highest  in the world. This is no small sacrifice for a small island developing State with meagre resources and massive  needs for its development.
20.4 Mr President, at the end of the last General Conference, delegations from the Member States of the  Pacifie subregion left with a considerable sense of achievement and hope. It was expected that attention would  be paid to the special and specifïc needs and interests of the small island Member States of UNESCO. But  during the past two years what was expected to be achieved largely remains to be desired.
20.5 The unity and conformity of small island States of the Pacitic region are well known. There is a lot the  Pacifie has to offer and there is also a lot the Pacifïc expects from UNESCO in meeting its development needs  in preparation for the challenges of the new Century. Mr President, it is in that spirit of confidence in the  capabilities of UNESCO that membership in the Pacifie region has grown to 13 and is expected to be
16 shortly.
20.6 The needs of small island States of the Pacifie, like those in other rcgions, are as pressing as those of  the large Member States, but they are quite different on account of isolation, sparseness, small populations,  vulnerable economies and fragile environments. And worse still is the frightening threat that a slight increase  in the earth’s temperature and associated rise in sea level could see the total disappearance of valuable lands  and possibly our islands.
20.7 Mr President, in that context, UNESCO activities in the region ought to be a response to the expressed  development needs of the island Member States. Since the establishment of the UNESCO office in Apia,  Samoa, the policy has always been to focus on education and training. Whilst we appreciate UNESCO’s input  in this regard, we feel that there is an urgent need to further deepen and expand UNESCO’s activities in other  fields of its mandate, especially including communications to combat the effects of distance and isolation.  Transport and telecommunications are fundamental to the promotion and consolidation of education, especially  distance education in our part of the world. We also strongly feel actions to strengthen the Apia Office are long  overdue. It is high time to recognize the Pacifie as a UNESCO region in itself and provide it with a strong  decentralized establishment to chart and carry out the programmes more successfully.
20.8 In 1988, two years before the Jomtien Conference, Tuvalu, a group of eight atoll coral islands, with  negligible resources, took a hold initiative to introduce a comprehensive programme known as Education for  Life (El%), for the development of its human resourccs through,appropriate education and training for all.
20.9 We highly appreciate the support and assistance we have received from UNESCO and other  development partners in shaping up and launching the programme. But now we are in mid-stream and we  urgently need extra support. The assistance provided under the Participation Programme is highly apprcciated  for the sustenance of ongoing projects. However, we feel that more responsive and more responsihle  management of the programme, especially at the Secretariat level, to addrçss the specilic needs of Member  States is badly needed. More importantly, Mr President, additional resources are vital. The recognition of the  special needs of Tuvalu, as of other small island States, cari hardly be honoured by funding a fcw small projects  such as those under the Participation Programme. Much more needs to be done under the UNESCO regular  budgetary and extra-budgetary provisions. WC hope to see UNESCO’s commitment to the small island States  translated into appropriate action. TO these ends, we fully support the proposals made by the Director-General  in UNESCO’s next Medium-Term Strategy focusing on assisting LDCs and small island developing States. In
227    particular the proposals emanating from important recent world forums, particularly the Barbados Declaration  on SIDS and development, Agenda 21 of the Rio Summit and of course the recent Beijing Conference on  Women and Development are strongly supported by Tuvalu.
20.10 It is against this background that we carry our trust in UNESCO and fervently hope that in the coming  biennium UNESCO Will have real programme growth, particularly in the Pacifïc region where the membership  of the Organization is on the increase and the needs of Member States are growing.
20.11 It is our strong conviction, Mr President, that in a11 our development endeavours, the roots of our  culture and traditions continue to grow deeper into the soi1 of our lives.
20.12 Mr President, let the solution of urgent matters and problems as they arise be the task of us all. Again,  Mr President, 1 cari assure you that, within our limited capabilities, the people and Government of Tuvalu Will  continue to uphold the noble ideals of UNESCO. 1 thank you, Mr President.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. 1 now cal1 on the Minister for Higher Education, Scientifïc Research and Culture of  Guinea, His Excellency Professor Aliou Baniré Diallo.
22.1 M. DIALLO (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, il m’est très agréable  d’adresser, au nom de la délégation de la République de Guinée, mes chaleureuses félicitations à l’éminente  personnalité qui vient d’être investie de la lourde mais exaltante fonction de président de la vingt-huitième  session de notre Conférence générale.
22.2 Je rends également un hommage mérité à M. Sayyad, de la République du Yémen, notre précédent  président, pour le dévouement et la compétence avec lesquels il a accompli les délicates missions qui lui ont été  confiées à la vingt-septième session.
22.3 J’exprime aussi mes chaleureux remerciements à M. Federico Mayor, directeur général de l’UNESCO,  pour son inlassable combat à la tête de notre Organisation, et pour l’attention toute particulière qu’il porte à  l’Afrique.
22.4 JC salue solennellement les honorables représentants des nouveaux Etats membres dont I’adhfsion à  l’UNESCO consolide l’universalité de notre prestigieuse institution.
22.5 Je transmets enfin aux éminents hommes d’Etat, de science et de culture ici présents les cordiales  salutations du peuple de Guinée, de son gouvernement et, tout particuli&rement, de son bien-aimé Président,  S. Ext. le général Lansana Conté.
22.6 Monsieur le Président, en se consacrant, cinquante années durant, à l’édification d’un monde de paix et  de prospérité pour tous, notre Organisation a rendu les plus éminents services. Mais l’occasion que constitue  l’anniversaire de l’UNESCO mCrite d’être mise à profit pour dresser l’état des lieux en vue de définir une  nouvelle ligne d’action et d’envisager des initiatives plus hardies pour relever les insupportables défis que sont :  la progression de la pauvreté et de l’exclusion sociale, l’aggravation des disparités entre les nations, la montée  dc la discrimination et de la violence, la multiplication des tensions, la pollution et la dkgradation de  l’environnement, ainsi que la propagation des pandémies.
22.7 Le concept récemment propos6 de “développement humain durable”, eu ce qu’il intègre, en les  inscrivant dans le temps, les dimensions sociales, politiques et humaines, dans une strategie assortie d’indiccs  opérationnels, est assurément plus riche de potentialités scientifiques et plus propre à nous permettre de  maîtriser la complexité de tous les aspects qu’englobe nécessairement le processus de développement.
22.8 A cette fïn, il me semble que les efforts devraient porter sur trois axes essentiels. Le premier est  l’objectif de l’éducation de base pour tous. La refondation des systèmes éducatifs africains ne peut se faire que  moyennant la conception de modèles qui donnent à l’individu les outils lui permettant de connaître son  environnement, de le connaître en le maîtrisant, de le maîtriser en s’y adaptant, de s’y adapter en le  transformant, dans le sens de l’équilibre à maintenir entre l’homme et son environnement.
22.9 En Guinée, nous avons mis en oeuvre un programme d’ajustement sectoriel visant l’accroissement du  taux de scolarisation, particulièrement dans les zones rurales et en ce qui concerne les filles, pour lesquelles des  dispositions spéciales ont été prises en vue de les intéresser aux enseignements scientifiques, techniques et  professionnels. Un effort croissant est fait pour les déscolarisés et les non-scolarisés de 9 à 17 ans, notamment  par la création des “centres Nata”, ou “écoles de la seconde chance”.
22.10 Le deuxième axe sur lequel devraient porter les efforts est l’orientation décisive des sciences et des  techniques, mais aussi des sciences humaines, au service du développement. Cela suppose la reconstruction de  l’éducation et de la recherche, par leur réenracinement dans les réalités sociales et économiques et leur  adaptation à la demande sociale collective et individuelle. Une double stratégie s’impose, consistant dune part à  promouvoir l’indispensable excellence, sans laquelle il ne peut y avoir dc progrès durable, et, d’autre part, à  assurer la formation de masse, sans laquelle il ne saurait y avoir de réflexion endogène, ni de participation des  communautés à leur propre développement.
22.11 Troisième axe, enfin, la dimension socioculturelle du développement. Si l’on veut, comme on s’accorde  a le recommander, que les populations participent aussi bien à la conception qu’à l’exécution et à l’évaluation  des actions de developpement, il faut que leur culture soit prise comme point de départ incontournable.
22.12 En République de Guinée, nos actions en matière de communication, comme dans les domaines de  l’éducation et de la science, s’articulent autour de programmes convergents dont la finalité est le développement  économique, social et culturel. C’est dans ce cadre que nous avons entrepris, avec le concours de nos partenaires  dans l’effort de développement, dont l’UNESCO, la mise en place d’un réseau de radios et de presse rurales. Ces  médias communautaires contribuent efficacement à transformer le monde rural, à favoriser l’éclosion de talents  cndogènes et à promouvoir la créativité, préalable culturel incontesté du développement.
22.13 Monsieur le Président, notre délégation accorde une grande attention aux orientations du programme  pour l’exercice biennal 1996-1997, particulièrement à celles relatives à la concentration des activités dans  certains domaines prioritaires conduisant à un développement durable et à la multiplication des ressources  extrabudgétaires pour soutenir les actions en faveur des pays les moins avancés et des femmes. Elle est  également favorable au développement des bureaux régionaux et des commissions nationales en vue d’assurer  une présence plus significative de l’UNESCO auprès des Etats membres.
22.14 La République de Guinée salue les efforts de notre Organisation pour mener à bien la Décennie  mondiale du développement culturel et souhaite que des liens étroits s’établissent entre les secteurs des sciences  et de la culture, facteurs essentiels d’un développement durable. Mon pays accorde également une grande  importance au programme de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale, au programme MOST  sur la Gestion des transformations sociales, au programme MAB sur L’homme et la biosphère, ainsi qu’à  I’Agenda 21 sur l’environnement et le développement. Mais, par-delà l’intérêt direct qu’il porte à ces actions, il  adhère pleinement aux grandes causes mondiales, comme l’a prouvé sa forte participation aux rencontres de  Rio, de Copenhague, du Caire et, plus récemment, de Beijing.
22.15 Monsieur le Président, avant de terminer: je tiens, d’une façon toute particulière, à exprimer, au nom  de la délégation guinéenne, mon soutien aux recommandations issues des “Assises de l’Afrique”, ainsi qu’aux  propositions visant à mettre en place un Comite de suivi préside par Mme Graça Machel et comprenant  d’cminentes personnalités. Nous souhaitons vivement que ces recommandations soient prises en compte dans le  cadre du prochain Programme et budget et de la Stratégie à moyen terme de l’UNESCO.
22.16 Enfin, je lance un vibrant et chaleureux appel à la communaute internationale pour qu’elle marque son  soutien, par des actions concrètes, à la réussite de 1996, Année de l’éducation en Afrique.
22.17 Monsieur le President, notre monde, devenu village planétaire, est le théâtre d’extraordinaires  changements, au rythme des progrès scientifiques et technologiques, tandis que s’accroît la complexité des  prohlèmcs qui assaillent I’humanite. L’interdépendance croissante de nos sociétés et le destin commun de  l’humanité rendent plus que jamais indispensable le renforcement de l’universalité de notre Organisation. Je  vous remercie de votre aimable et bienveillante attention.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. 1 now cal1 on thc Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine,  Mr Volodymyr Khandogiy.
24.1 Mr KHANDOGIY (Ukraine):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset 1 would like to extend my  congratulations to Mr Krogh on his election and to the representatives of Member States elected to the General  Committee and other bodies of the General Conference.
24.2 Indeed, this session is a momentous one. Being held during the United Nations Year for Tolerance, it  coincides with the commemoration of the end of the Second World War, as well as the fïftieth anniversaries of  the United Nations and, of course, of the adoption of UNESCO’s Constitution. But these historic events should  not overshadow the main purpose of this General Conference, which is to outline directions for our  Organization into the next Century. They are embodied in the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001  which we have to thoroughly examine and approve.
24.3 When speaking about thejuhilee of any international institution, it is only natural to look back over the  ycars of its existence. But 1 would refrain from doing SO, since such an exposé is already contained in the Draft  Medium-Term Strategy. 1 would only recall the words of an American philosopher who said once: ‘Anything,  any institution or anyone not well enough put together to stand the racket of Life should die - and does’. As a11  of us may witness, UNESCO has not died. Therefore, as the saying goes, there is a past which is gone forever,  but thcre is a future which is still our own.
24.4 Mr President, the delegation of Ukraine notes with satisfaction that the future of our Organization is  clearly seen in hoth the draft documents 28 C/5 and 28 C/4. WC do support, in principle, the ideas and  provisions of these comprehensive documents, but 1 am sure you Will understand that we cannot fully agree to  a11 of them. The reasons for this Will be given by our delegation in the appropriate Commissions. However, 1  would like to mention some of our preoccupations here, in the plenary.
24.5 Regardless of the fact that both the C/5 and the C/4 documents do reflect the realities of our dynamic  and rapidly changing world, we think that one important element is not duly taken into account. In fact, these  documents place emphasis, as bas always been the case, on relations and co-operation hetween ‘the North’ and  ‘the South’. We think that in the overall programme activity of UNESCO more attention should be devoted to  the countries that are undergoing far-reaching reforms in the process of transformation from a centrally  planned to a market economy, and in particular to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Certainly,  much bas been done for them hy the PROCEED programme. Unfortunately, if one looks at the draft  organizational chart of the UNESCO Secretariat for 1996-1997 in the Draft Programme and Budget, the  PROCEED Unit cannot he found on it. We understand that relevant activities Will be continued; but we have to  make sure that thcy are adequately supported logistically and hy experienced staff.
24.6 Mr President, needless to say, the Ukrainian people are deeply grateful to Memher States and  voluntary funds for the assistance rendered to us within the framework of the extra-budgetary UNESCO-  Chernohyl Programme. On behalf of my government, 1 would like to thank the Director-General, and the  Deputy Director-General, who visited the site of the catastrophe, for their persona1 efforts in that regard. These  efforts led to the opening in Ukraine of three centres for social and psychological rehabilitation and to the  training of a number of specialists in areas related to the mitigation of the consequences of this nuclear disaster.  WC noted with satisfaction that some of these activities Will continue. However, it should be clearly recognized  that further assistance is needed in order to overcome the after-effects of Chernohyl, especially in view of the  persistent economic problems of the transition period that the affected countries are facing.
24.7 We understand the tight tïnancial situation of the Organization. Nevertheless, Ukraine is deeply  convinced that the effectiveness of UNESCO should he enhanced and its ahility to live up to its constitutional  provisions strengthened. Our delegation considers that one possible way of achieving this goal is to concentrate  ou priority programmes which are of signilïcant importance for regions or. at least, for groups of countries. In  our opinion, such an approach would stimulate voluntary fïnancial contributions as well as timely payment of  assessed contributions 10 the regular budget.
24.8 Moreover, we are sure that thc effectiveness of UNESCO and its performance depend largely on the  staff heing ahle to implement our decisions with competence, integrity and commitment. In our view, a fair and  rational balance between temporary and fïxed-term contracts, with due regard for under-represented countries  would facilitate the attainment of these goals. The solution of this problem would also help to restore two  important constitutional principles of the Organization, namely equitable geographical distribution of posts and  enhancement of the competence and efficiency of the staff.
24.9 Mr President, Ukraine fully supports the main objectives of the future activities of UNESCO. Of  special importance for us are the strategies designed to achieve conflict prevention and post-conflict peace-  building that enhance the ethical mission and intellectual role of the Organization in the contemporary world.  We are therefore proud to be one of the initiators of the idea of a ‘Declaration on the Culture of Peace’ and we  are ready to contribute in practical terms to its elaboration.
24.10 Taking this opportunity, Ukraine reaffirms its commitment to UNESCO. As the President of Ukraine,  Leonid Kuchma, stated in his message on the occasion of the fïftieth anniversary of the Organization, our  adherence to the ideals and principles of UNESCO remains unchanged. Moreover, it acquires new dimensions  and new meaning which meet the realities of the modern world.
24.11 This year, UNESCO takes a step which brings us directly to the threshold of a new Century and a new  millennium. Let us join efforts to make this endeavour successful for the benefit of the whole of humankind. At  the same time, let us always remember that words are but leaves, while deeds are fruits. Thank you,  Mr President.  (Mr Krogh, Denmark, takes the Chair)
25.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. 1 would also like to thank  Mr Lawrence Carrington, Head of the Delegation of Trinidad and Tohago, and Vice-President of the General  Conference, for having chaired the meeting until now. We had a very heavy agenda in the General Committee  and for that reason 1 was not ahle to be here at the heginning. 1 apologize for mat.
25.2 The next speaker on the list is His Excellency the Minister of National Education of Senegal, Monsieur  André Sonko.
26.1 M. SONKO (Sénégal) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames, Messieurs les ministres, Honorables délégués, je voudrais tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, vous  adresser mes chaleureuses felicitations pour votre brillante élection à la tête de notre Conférence. Je suis certain  que vous saurez conduire avec harmonie nos travaux.
26.2 Monsieur le Directeur général, sous votre sage direction, l’Organisation a franchi d’importantes étapes  avec l’approfondissement du processus de réformes ainsi que le renforcement de sa mission éthique et de son  rôle dans la coopération intellectuelle internationale, conformément à son Acte constitutif. Permettez-moi de  vous rendre hommage pour les excellents résultats enregistrés et soyez assuré que le Sénégal ne vous ménagera  pas son soutien, afin que vous puissiez poursuivre votre mission au service de la coopération internationale.
26.3 Monsieur le Président, notre session, du fait du cinquantenaire de l’UNESCO et en raison des  documents importants qui nous sont proposés pour examen et adoption, marquera un tournant décisif dans la  vie de l’Organisation. Je me permets de féliciter chaleureusement le Directeur général pour la qualité de ces  documents qui ont été élaborés en étroite coopération avec le Conseil exécutif et l’ensemble des Etats membres,  à travers leurs commissions nationales. Ma délégation apprécie positivement toutes les mesures prises pour  simplifier la présentation du Prqjet de programme et de budget pour 1996-1997 et encourage le Secrétariat à  poursuivre ses efforts dans ce sens.
26.4 Les activités concernant l’éducation et plus particulièrement l’amélioration des systèmes  d’enseignement, le développement du Projet international pour l’enseignement technique et professionnel  (UNEVOC), la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel de l’humanité et la maîtrise des problèmes de  l’environnement demeurent pour le Sénégal des préoccupations majeures. Nous sommes heureux de constater  que l’UNESCO leur accorde une place prioritaire dans les activités du prochain exercice biennal.
26.5 Monsieur le Président, l’éducation est le domaine de compétence par excellence de l’UNESCO. C’est  également un domaine prioritaire pour mon pays qui se félicite de la conception et des priorités du grand  programme 1 “Vers une éducation permanente pour tous”, qui sont conformes aux propositions faites par le  Forum de réflexion ad hoc du Conseil exécutif. Le Sénégal insiste particulièrement sur la nécessité de mettre  l’accent sur l’élargissement de l’accès à l’éducation de base, en vue de remporter une victoire décisive sur  l’analphabétisme et de créer une des conditions du développement.
26.6 A cet égard, le Sénégal se rejouit du lancement au début du mois, à Bamako, au Mali, de l’Année de  l’éducation en Afrique. Par ailleurs il met en oeuvre actuellement, avec ses partenaires pour le développement,  un projet de développement des ressources humaines, visant à améliorer sensiblement la qualité de  l’enseignement et à accroître le taux de scolarisation, notamment celui des filles dans les zones rurales. Ce  projet concerne aussi l’alphabétisation, l’enseignement secondaire général et technique ainsi que la formation  professionnelle.
26.7 Ma délégation apprécie en outre l’accent mis sur la rénovation des politiques dans le domaine de  l’enseignement supérieur, qui demeure une de nos grandes préoccupations. C’est ainsi que le Sénégal a  commencé, à appliquer, en 1994-1995, les recommandations issues de la concertation nationale sur  l’enseignement supérieur de 1992. Les résultats que nous avons enregistrés sont prometteurs ; mais, dans notre  volonté de créer de véritables universités de développement, nous sommes tou,jours confrontés aux problèmes de  maîtrise des flux et de diversification des filières pour adapter les profils aux besoins de l’économie.
26.X Ma délégation se réjouit par ailleurs de la priorité accordée aux activités dans les domaines de  l’environnement et de l’utilisation rationnelle des ressources naturelles, avec le renforcement des programmes  scientitïques intergouvernementaux, notamment le Programme hydrologique international et le MAB. 11  importe, en effet, que tout soit mis en oeuvre pour freiner le processus de désertification que connaissent les  regions comme le Sahel. Les caractéristiques particulières des écosystèmes de la zone sahélienne, la gravité de  leur dégradation et la dangereuse rupture de l’équilibre ressources/hommes, méritent d’être rappelées à  l’attention de cette assemblée. La restauration de l’espace sahélien nécessite un engagement résolu de la  communauté internationale, notamment des organismes spécialisés des Nations Unies qui accompagnent les  efforts des pays membres du Comité permanent inter-Etats de lutte contre la sécheresse dans le Sahel (CILSS)  pour préserver leur environnement et parvenir à l’autosuffisance alimentaire.
26.9 En ce qui concerne le grand programme III “Développement culturel : patrimoine et création”, le  Sénégal se félicite des bons résultats obtenus dans la mise en oeuvre du programme d’action de la Décennie  mondiale du développement culturel. Par ailleurs, il encourage l’organisation à approfondir le débat sur la  relation entre la culture et le développement et à diffuser les documents produits, notamment les rapports de la  Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement. Nous souhaitons également l’intensification de la  coopération avec les autres partenaires pour le développement en ce qui concerne la réalisation de projets  prenant en compte la dimension culturelle du développement dans le cadre de la stratégie de la quatrième  Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement. Sur un autre plan, le Sénégal soutient toute action visant à  promouvoir l’application de la Convention concernant la protection du patrimoine mondial de 1972, et  encourage l’organisation à apporter un appui aux nouveaux Etats parties a la Convention, pour les aider à  constituer des dossiers de candidature. Le Sénégal souhaite la relance de la Campagne de Gorée pour  sensibiliser davantage la communauté internationale aux problèmes complexes que pose la préservation de ce  site du patrimoine mondial, Parallèlement à cette opération, mon pays poursuit activement la réalisation du  Mémorial dc Gorée et sollicite à cet effet le soutien de l’Organisation et des Etats membres.
26.10 Monsieur lc Président, ma délégation attache beaucoup d’importance à la mise sur pied d’un  mécanisme de suivi des recommandations formulées, ici même en tevrier dernier, par les Assises de l’Afrique et  qui s’inscrivent dans le droit fïl du processus que le Chef de I’Etat du Sénégal, S. Ext. M. Abdou Diouf. a  déclenché. lorsqu’en sa qualité de président en exercice de l’OUA, il a décrit la situation critique dc l’Afrique cl  lancé, à la trihunc des Nations Unies à New York, un appel pressant à la communauté internationale en faveur  de notre continent.
26.11 Monsieur le Directeur général, nous vous encourageons à poursuivre vos efforts pour reslaurer  l’universalité de l’Organisation, car les Etats qui ont quitte I’UNESCO doivent reprendre leur place dans noue  maison commune, dont la vocation est de demeurer ouverte à tous les apports fécondants. Pays épris de paix. le  Sénégal entend rester fidèle à la lettre et à l’esprit de l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO, qui s’est fait l’écho des  cris de détresse et aussi d’espoir de millions d’hommes qui ont vécu, dms leur chair comme dans leur coeur, les  conséquences des pré.jugés, de l’intolerance et des violations inadmissibles des droits de l’homme. C’est ainsi  que, tout naturellement, mon pays accorde son soutien à toutes les initiatives du Directeur général visant à  préserver la paix dans le monde, notamment au projet transdisciplinaire “Vers une culture de la paix” qui, en  utilisant l’energie créatrice des jeunes et des femmes du monde, cherche à “bâtir la paix dans l’esprit des  hommes”, conformément aux engagements des pères fondateurs de notre Organisation. Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank your very much, Your Excellency, and also for keeping within the time-limit. The next speaker  is His Excellency Mr Mohammed Bilai, Principal Secretary of Science, Technology and Higher Education of  the United Republic of Tanzania.
28.1 Mr BILAL (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, Honourable Ministers and heads of delegations, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania and on my own behalf 1 would like  to congratulate you warmly on your being elected President of the twenty-eighth session of the General  Conference. My delegation believes that under your distinguished leadership the deliberations of this session  Will be a great success.
28.2 The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania would like to register its profound appreciation  for UNESCO’s commitment and continued co-operation with Tanzania in the tïeld of education. We commend  UNESCO’s emphasis on education for a11 and lifelong education and, more particularly, the support given in  the promotion of girls’ education, distance education and innovative science teaching and learning. We would  request that more resources be earmarked to support the training and retraining of teachers in order to improvc  quality in these areas.
28.3 My government commends the efforts made by the UNESCO subregional office in Dar es Salaam for  promoting inter-agency co-operation in Tanzania in the promotion of basic education for girls in the Jomtien  spirit. We would therefore request the Director-General to increase the fïnancial capacity of this office SO that  more activities could be undertaken.
28.4 Mr President, Tanzania, like any other developing country, needs to enhance its knowledge of science  and technology as well as its application to development. In such a situation the advancement, transfer and  sharing of knowledge among developed and developing countries are crucial.
28.5 Mr President, concerning Major Programme IV, my government would like to commend the Director-  General for coming up with a dynamic and programmatic draft programme which incorporates modern  technologies in communication, information and informatics. Of particular interest in this draft programme is  UNESCO’s decision to get involved in promoting information superhighways and networks in Member  countries. We would, however, like to caution that this superhighway should not become another one-way  traffic system, taking processed information from developed countries for sale in the developing countries.  UNESCO should safeguard the interests of the South and help assist in the development of dual carriage  superhighways of information between countries in the North and the South.
28.6 In this regard, my government supports the interest of the Director-General in carrying out a survey of  specialized information needs in Africa with a view to identifying possible regional strategies, and promises to  work closely with UNESCO in this initiative.
28.7 As the outgoing President of the General Conference has said, this General Conference marks the end  of the first half of the fïrst Century of the existence of UNESCO and the beginning of the second half.  Mr President, the building of peace in the minds of human beings has been the ruiron d’être of UNESCO. For  the last 50 years, through its programmes and activities, by the use of its resources, by collaboration with  Member States and civil society through their organizations, the world has witnessed the fruits of UNESCO’s  efforts. The Cold War has ended and more peace initiatives arc in progress. Colonialism has now almost  become a chapter in history books.
28.8 Yet Mr President peace in the minds of men is a lifelong pursuit for human society and a permanent  challenge to UNESCO. The end of the Cold War or the end of colonialism, as events that followed have shown,  was not the beginning of peace, let alone a culture of peace. A famous Indian author once said, and 1 quote:  ‘Struggle is the meaning of life. Defeat or victory is in the hands of God, but struggle itself is man’s duty and  should be his joy’. The famous scholar, Emile Durkheim has also reminded us that conflict is part of life, and in  our traditional societies we believe that absolute peace cornes after death. Struggles, conflicts or contradictions,  Mr President, do not always have to be antagonistic or irreconcilable. Violent, irreconcilable or antagonistic  conflicts threaten life. UNESCO could take the initiative to support studies to enable monitoring and provide  early warning against the development of violent or irreconcilable conflicts.
28.9 The new world, that is, the present world with its new or Young societal members, is experiencing new  forms of conflicts which cal1 for new perceptions, new approaches and new solutions. However, some of these  conflicts may not be that new since their causes have remained the same; but they are new because the affected  are new. Poverty and the resultant human degradation are old causes of conflict affecting new members of  society. The quest for scient& and technological literacy brings about new conflicts in the old as well as new  members of society. When in a modern age there is obdurate poverty amidst a world of plenty there is no way  the world cari enjoy peace or that UNESCO cari construct peace in the midst of misery.
28.10 Mr President, development for ah, therefore, becomes a major challenge to the entire United Nations  system, and indeed to the world community. The United Nations initiative of the new ‘Agenda for  Development’ for Africa in the 1990s stands as a correct approach to the threat to our achievements. On his  part UNESCO’s Director-General has taken up the challenge by launching ‘Audience Africa’ which has enabled  Africans to propose priorities within the areas of competence of UNESCO that need to be addressed by  themselves, by the Organization and by other agencies. We now request the Director-General to institute an  effective implementation and follow-up mechanism.
28.11 Mr President, UNESCO is an assembly of many great peoples. It has embraced equally and heartily the  small and the big, the rich and the poor, the strong and the weak. It is in this spirit that we extol the cultural  diversity of this organization, because in it we fïnd a lesson in tolerance and the urge to enrich our  understanding of the true essence of life. It is only natural, therefore, that this Organization should invite the  weak to learn from the strong and the strong to find empathy with the weak as we celebrate the fiftieth  anniversary of this great Organization. It is well to recall the words of Samuel Johnson, and 1 quote: ‘The true  strong and sound mind is the mind that cari embrace equally great things and small’. Ladies and gentlemen, is  it not also true as David Everett wrote: ‘Large streams from little fountains flow, ta11 oaks from little acorns  grow’.
28.12 Thank you for listening.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and thank you for keeping within the time-limit, which is  greatly appreciated - 1 am sure - not only by the President but by the entire General Conference. The next  speaker is His Excellency Mr Alexander Chikvaidze, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia.
30.1 Mr CHIKVAIDZE (Georgia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it is a distinct honour to be part of this  Conference, which marks UNESCO’s first step into the third millennium, and it is a pleasure to convey sincere  greetings to this distinguished gathering from our Head of State, Mr Eduard Shevardnadze.
30.2 Co-operation between UNESCO and Georgia, which began in 1992, initially languished against the  backdrop of political instability, economic crisis, lack of energy supplies and high levels of crime,  unemployment and social insecurity. Only recently, together with the gradua1 improvement of the overall  situation, did we see the revival of the traditional activities which are a source of pride for our people and  which, until recently, were taken for granted: theatre, cinema, art and other cultural pursuits.
30.3 Georgia today is steadily returning to normal life. A new Constitution has been adopted, a national  currency has been introduced and presidential and parliamentary elections Will be held on 5 November.  Georgia’s objectives are democracy, a market economy and social stability, and nothing Will undermine this  determination
30.4 In this situation, the work of UNESCO contributes to restoring hope in people and their belief in the  future, demonstrating that its high prestige is well-earned and justified. It is impossible to overrate the activities  of the Organization in Georgia. This praise is indeed deserved and cornes not only from our National  Commission, but from a11 of our society. 1 should like to take this opportunity to thank UNESCO and a11 those  who took part in the elaboration of the Programme of Co-operation with my country.
30.5 Mr Director-General, 1 should like to thank you personally for taking very close to your heart the  aspirations of my people. In one of your interviews in Tbilisi you said: ‘Dont speak of Georgia as a small  country. That 1 Will not agree with. In the system of UNESCO, countries are considered to be largely based only  on their talent, and this is definitely the case of Georgia’. We tïrmly believe that this approach facilitated in  many respects the successful development of co-operation between your Organization and Georgia.
30.6 It would take too long to mention all of UNESCO’s projects in the country. Some of them, such as the  International Energy Centre, the UNESCO Environmental Department of the Georgian Technical University,  and the UNESCO-Cousteau Oceanography Chair at Tbilisi State University, go far beyond the limits of the  disciplines in question and caver economic and social areas. These projects have already contributed  signifïcantly to the research on renewable energy sources, the development of agriculture and other branches of  the economy. Al1 this is in addition to the traditional activities in assisting schools, the Academy of Sciences, in  supporting sports and SO on. These prqjects have created jobs for many specialists who had left their professions  in search of means to support themselves and their families, and who would have left their homeland as well,  were it not for love of their country.
30.7 The recognition of our cultural heritage and the inclusion of two architectural complexes in the World  Heritage list inspired the population and strengthened its trust in the effectiveness of international  organizations.
30.8 Our three-year old co-operation w& crowned during the Director-General’s visit to Georgia last  summer, by the signing of a Memorandum which sets priorities for the relationship and shapes future co-  operation. 1 am pleased that the main points of this Memorandum fit well into UNESCO’s Draft Medium-Term  Strategy for 1996-2001. Having acquainted myself with this document, as well as with the Draft Programme  and Budget for the next two years, 1 am convinced that UNESCO is rising to the challenges of our times and is  boldly looking ahead to the twenty-fïrst century to tackle such problems as education for all, the rational use of  oceans and water resources, the development of renewable energy sources, the search for new avenues for  cultural dialogue, and SO on. 1 should like to hope that the implementation of the strategic programme could  also involve specialists from the newly independent States, since they represent a very large scientifïc potential  and are able to contribute significantly to a common cause. The realization of these plans Will be benefïcial for  a11 nations, and we support a strategy which corresponds to the needs of the times.
30.9 Ladies and gentlemen, we belong to an era which saw possibly the most momentous event of the  twentieth Century - the elimination of the global confrontation of two hostile social systems. The end of the  Cold War and the diminished nuclear threat, however, gave way to another, no less dangerous threat -  separatism, which has already shown its devastating nature in Africa, the Balkans, the Caucasus and other  regions of the world. Separatism is invisible until it explodes, and since it threatens a11 nations equally, it cari  only be combated by a unification of efforts.
30.10 The detailed investigation of the mots of aggressive separatism is not my task today; it needs serious  and painstaking study. It seems clear, however, that its principal source is political, racial, national and  religious intolerance, as well as an absence of respect for other cultures, traditions and languages. This respect  could most effectively be fostered through knowledge and education, and UNESCO is the main weapon of  humankind in this vast area. Sir Rudyard Kipling once observed that West was West, East was East and that  they would never corne together. But are we not now witness of many fine examples of mutually benefïcial co-  operation between different nations, races, cultures and religions?
30.11 Granted, to combat hatred and intolerance successfully, the global intellectual potential Will have to be  united, as well as much of the spiritual and fïnancial resources of the world and the goodwill of many nations  and governments. It Will require great courage, energy and spiritual strength, but above all, a very long time.  The experts Will have to determine how this combat should be waged. From our point of view, however, the  most effective methods include, inter dia, lifelong education using powerful modern technology such as video,  as planned by UNESCO; more active exchanges among the children and youth of different countries; and the  inclusion of specialists of many professions in the activities of the Organization.
30.12 Furthermore, the teaching of tolerance requires great tare, in order to avoid the slightest traces of  ideology, or hints of superiority of one cultural heritage over another. The diffïculties in overcoming this  problem are evident, but as the saying goes, ‘only the untried is impossible’. An international forum ‘For  Solidarity against Intolerance, for Dialogue of Cultures’, held this summer under the auspices of UNESCO in  Tbilisi, was initiated personally by Mr Federico Mayor and Mr Eduard Shevardnadze. The aim of this  conference was precisely to fïnd ways out of the situation in which many countries have found themselves due  to the virus of intolerance, and we hope that the benefïcial results of this forum Will soon be felt. We are also  happy, that as a result of this forum, the Tbilisi International Centre ‘for a dialogue between cultures, for peace  and tolerance’ Will be established and that a ‘solar village’ Will be created.
30.13 We feel it is very symbolic, and are grateful to the Director-General, for his willingness to start the  march against intolerance in Georgia, a small country where Christian Orthodox, Catholic and Baptist  Churches, mosques and synagogues have existed alongside each other in peace for centuries.
30.14 1 would also like to touch on another issue which cari be solved only by UNESCO. As a result of the  Abkhazian conflict many cultural monuments, museums, libraries and educational centres were destroyed or  damaged. We would be most grateful if UNESCO could provide its experts to assess the damage, together with  our specialists, and assist us in tbeir restoration. This Will take time, but we hope that the restoration of the  cultural heritage and of educational facilities Will help to restore relationships between peoples who have lived  together since time immemorial.
30.15 Finally, let me recall that in 1977, in order to define the role, the guiding principles and the objectives  of environmental education, an international conference on environmental education was organized in Georgia  by UNESCO and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), in which 66 Member States of  UNESCO and a number of intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations took part. Since then,  ccological, social, political, economic, scientilïc and technical conditions worldwide have undergone many  changes. Today, in order to redefïne the role, scope and objectives of environmental education, it is essential to  hold a conference which Will seek the consensus of the international community, aiming to make  environmental education an effective instrument for supporting sustainable development worldwide. 1 take the  liberty, at this high forum, of requesting that another Intergovernmental Conference on Environmental  Education be held in Tbilisi in 1997, 20 years after the Tbilisi Conference of 1977.
30.16 Ladies and gentlemen, the Georgian nation firmly believes in UNESCO and in its Director-General,  and in their ability and courage to face the unknown and rise to new challenges. As the old wisdom has it, ‘YOU  c&nnot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of land. Thank you.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. The next speaker is His Eminence Cardinal Paul Poupard,  Chairman of the Pontifical Council for Culture of the Holy See.
32.1 Mgr. POUPARD (Saint-Siège) :  Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est pour moi un honneur et une joie de guider la Délégation d’observation  du Saint-SiCge chargée de vous apporter les voeux du Pape Jean-Paul II pour la vingt-huitième session de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
32.2 Le Saint-Siège suit les activites de l’Organisation avec un vif intérêt qui se veut attentif et discret ; l’un  et l’autre sont en effet au service de l’homme, selon les compétences et les champs d’action qui leur sont  propres.
32.3 Si leurs competences et leurs champs d’action sont spécifiques, l’UNESCO et le Saint-Siège s’adressent  néanmoins tous deux à l’être humain, complexe et indivisible, dans l’harmonie de ses composantes, de ses  aspirations, de ses droits et de ses devoirs. De par son origine, l’homme possede une dignité unique. Il se doit  d’eu prendre conscience pour mener une vie digne de sa vocation dans ses liens avec ses semblables, dans son  attachement aux valeurs spirituelles et matérielles, pour parvenir a la connaissance de la vérité et a la  compréhension de sa dignité. De manière responsable, car l’être humain, seul, peut et doit faire le choix  nécessaire pour donner un sens a son existence, et adopter un comportement individuel et social conforme a sa  nature. De manière libre, car la liberté est un attribut constitutif et essentiel de l’homme, elle fonde l’égalité et  l’unicité de chaque personne humaine, demande le respect plus que la tolérance, avec la fraternité et la  solidarité, dans la jouissance de ses droits inaliénables et dans l’accomplissement de ses devoirs individuels et  sociaux.
32.4 Lors de sa récente visite au siege des Nations Unies, le Pape Jean-Paul II proposait d’elaborer une  Charte des droits des nations, analogue à la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme. Par cette initiative,  le Saint-Siège entend concrétiser son souci de servir l’homme dans sa dimension personnelle, sociale et  culturelle, et de préserver le droit inaliénable des peuples à exister dans le respect de la diversité, la tolérance  réciproque et la solidarité concrète, afïn de promouvoir une culture de la liberté responsable, enracinée dans les  exigences libératrices de la vérité. Dans cette tâche exigeante qu’est le “service de l’homme”, les responsables  politiques savent pouvoir compter sur la collaboration du Saint-Siège et de 1’Eglise catholique tout entière. Le  service de l’homme, telle est la raison fondamentale de la promotion de la paix, du respect et de l’estime
236    réciproques, de la coopération culturelle internationale. L’UNESCO constitue un carrefour unique et un lieu de  rencontre, d’échanges et de concertation, indispensable pour affronter dans une démarche commune les grandes  préoccupations éthiques de notre temps. L’éducation, l’école, la recherche scientifique, notamment en biologie  et génétique humaine, les progrès technologiques de l’information et de la communication, domaines immenses  qui relèvent de la compétence de l’UNESCO, sont porteurs d’interrogations graves et d’enjeux décisifs pour le  devenir de l’homme.
32.5 Cette mission de concertation et de coopération devient de plus en plus importante à l’heure de la  fragmentation et des particularismes. Plus que jamais il est nécessaire de coopérer pour faire émerger le  patrimoine commun de valeurs susceptible de faire accéder toute l’humanité à une qualité de vie vraiment digne  de l’homme, de sa vocation spirituelle et du destin éternel auquel l’appelle le Créateur.
32.6 L’éducation, droit fondamental de la personne et des peuples, facteur clé du développement, est fort  justement l’une des priorités de l’UNESCO. Orientée vers un développement de la personne dans toutes ses  potentialités, “l’éducation pour tous” prend aujourd’hui des allures de défi, car elle embrasse non seulement la  cause des enfants et des jeunes, mais aussi celle des exclus et des marginaux, et elle devient une exigence  permanente et universelle.
32.7 Les enseignants le savent bien : il est parfaitement illusoire de satisfaire aux exigences d’une éducation  complète sans communauté éducative où les compétences se conjuguent au service des personnes. De  l’éducation initiale à la formation permanente, il est nécessaire de créer des “milieux formateurs” dont la  mission ne se limite pas à transmettre un savoir. Les éducateurs de jeunes et les formateurs d’adultes, à travers  les savoirs transmis, forment des citoyens et les préparent à prendre leur part de responsabilités dans la vie  sociale et économique, politique et culturelle, à la lumière des principes et des valeurs ethiques qui constituent  le patrimoine de l’humanité.
32.8 Pour sa part, le Saint-Siège invite les communautés éducatives catholiques à s’inscrire dans la réalité  institutionnelle dune société pluraliste pour y jouer un rôle spécifique au nom de la communauté des baptisés, a  la poursuite du bien commun et notamment du développement intégral de l’homme et du développement  solidaire de l’humanité. Dans cette perspective, le Saint-Siège appuie particulièrement l’action des organisations  internationales catholiques dans les programmes orientés vers un développement intégral et solidaire de  l’homme et de l’humanité, et se réjouit de l’oeuvre accomplie à ce jour, marquée notamment par la publication  de “La culture, chemin d’un développement solidaire, contribution des organisations internationales catholiques  à la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel”, que j’ai eu le privilège de présenter ici même, au Siège de  l’UNESCO, le 10 novembre 1989.
32.9 La dimension culturelle du développement fait l’objet d’une attention soutenue de l’UNESCO, ct le  Saint-Siège s’en réjouit. L’évolution des mentalités et leur sensibilisation croissante à la culture démontrent la  justesse des choix assumés par l’Organisation dans la préparation et l’exécution de ses programmes culturels de  développement. En développant une véritable éthique de la solidarité économique et culturelle, pour construire  une culture du partage des dons et de l’aide mutuelle, nous servons la cause de l’homme dans son intégralité.
32.10 La nature même de l’homme l’exige et le Pape Jean-Paul II le rappelait, le 5 octobre dernier devant  l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies : “La liberté est la mesure de la dignité et de la grandeur de l’homme  Pour les individus et les peuples, vivre libre est un grand défi pour le progrès spirituel de l’homme et la vigueur  morale des nations”. Le développement intégral comprend donc une dimension éthique dont la liberté est le  paradigme, car celle-ci est la clé de voûte de la responsabilité personnelle ct communautaire: et le signe  caractéristique des actes vraiment humains.
32.11 Oeuvrer pour l’alphabétisation et l’instruction, pour la coopération culturelle internationale, travailler  au développement intégral des personnes et des peuples, c’est édifier la culture de la paix et de la solidarité.
32.12 LUNESCO, forum international aux dimensions du monde, est l’un des lieux privilégiés de la  construction de la paix par l’intermédiaire de la coopération culturelle, qui élève les échanges humains à un  niveau supérieur de communion des esprits et des coeurs. M. le Directeur général le rappelait en célébrant le  cinquantième anniversaire de la fin de la seconde guerre mondiale : les fondateurs de l’UNESCO ont énoncé la  condition de la vraie paix, de la paix éthique, à savoir “la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l’humanité”.
32.13 Comme le développement s’adresse à la personne humaine dans son intégralité, la coopération  internationale ne saurait se limiter aux questions économiques, ni même à l’assistance humanitaire pourtant si  indispensable aux millions de personnes qui souffrent de la pauvreté et vivent dans des conditions inhumaines,
32.14 Trop d’hommes et de femmes, d’enfants et de vieillards manquent de cette paix sans laquelle la vie sur  terre devient un enfer. Trop d’innocents souffrent injustement une précarité incompatible avec leur dignité  d’hommes. Nous devons poursuivre le chemin tracé par ces cinquante premières annees de coopération et  réaffirmer notre engagement en faveur de la solidarité qui, seule, permet à tous de vivre dans la paix et la  dignité. Oui, seule la paix garantit la stabilité d’une société solidaire, comme la solidarite est la meilleure  assurance de la paix. Pour atteindre son plein épanouissement, la personne humaine doit se développer  progressivement et, pour ce faire, elle a besoin de paix et de solidarite, car l’homme devient lui-même dans un  rapport harmonieux avec l’autre, qui lui fait percevoir sa propre identité face à l’altérité, et fonde la vie sociale  sur la complémentarité dans la diversité et le respect de la nature.
32.15 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, nous sommes appelés au courage de l’esprit pour éviter le piège  des illusions provisoirement consolantes, et au courage de la volonté pour surmonter le désir d’avoir toujours  plus et la peur de perdre des richesses acquises dans un processus dont la spirale s’affole au détriment des  pauvres.
32.16 Reconnaître une nature humaine irréductible à tous les conditionnements, c’est s’engager du même  coup à reconnaître des droits de l’homme universels et inaliénables, et une pluralité de cultures enracinée dans  des valeurs fondamentales où elles trouvent leur ancrage historique. C’est surmonter, en même temps, une  tentation d’indifférence de jugement et d’apathie de comportement, pour s’engager avec un courage renouvelé  dans le combat pour l’homme, l’inviolabilité de sa conscience, la transcendance de sa personne, l’universalité de  ses droits et la pérennité de ses devoirs.
32.17 “L’avenir de l’homme, c’est la culture”, disait Jean-Paul II voici quinze ans à cette tribune unique au  monde. “Et il n’y a de culture que de l’homme, par l’homme et pour l’homme”. L’UNESCO a déjà parcouru un  long chemin au service de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. Il lui reste, au seuil du nouveau millénaire,  à remplir une grande tâche au service de l’homme. C’est là sa raison d’être, la source de son inspiration, et sa  plus haute ambition. Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre attention.
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Eminence. The next speaker is His Excellency Mr Kabashour Koukou,  Minister of Education of Sudan.
(34.1) Mr KABASHOUR KOUKOU (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, heads and members of participating delegations, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like first of ail,  Mr President, to congratulate you on the high level of confidence shown in you by the General Conference on
7  your unanimous election as President. There is no doubt that you are deserving of such confidence in view of your  laudable qualities and ample experience. 1 wish you success in your lofty task. 1 must also extend my warmest  greetings to your predecessor, Dr Ahmed Sayyad, who has honoured us a11 and particularly the electoral group of  which he is a member, by his outstanding contribution. 1 also congratulate the new members of the Organization  and welcome the presence among us for the first time of the delegation from the Republic the new South Africa.  Their attendance Will undoubtedly bring with it much in the way of lessons, guidance and advice on how human  society cari achieve solutions to their problems through cultural and social tolerance and a respect for the basic  rights of a11 people without discrimination on the grounds of race, colour or creed.
(34.2) Mr President, 1 Will begin by praising the way in which UNESCO supports through its various  institutions the initiatives and efforts of the Director-General in drafting and implementing the programme of the  culture of peace. We believe that this programme is, as the Director-General said in his statement, a return to the  basic principles of UNESCO, which was founded in order to build peace through education, culture and science.  It is most satisfying that this programme is in response to a cal1 for peace in the minds of men, issued from the  heart of the African continent at the Yamoussoukro Conference in 1989. Afiican wisdom has thus been enlisted in  the attempt to save the world from its greatest problems.
(34.3) There is no doubt that the coming together of African leaders at the intellectual forum ‘Audience Africa’  highlights the fact that the continent is using UNESCO? priority, given that ‘Mica is not the problem, only the  solution’, as Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, points out time and again. The holding of such a meeting  exemplifies the commitment to supporting the efforts of those African countries that are experiencing hardship  and are working to achieve stability within a lasting political and social peace. TO this end, we are seeking to set  up prqjects and programmes that Will have a lasting and positive effect, particularly with regard to enhancing the  status of women, lifelong education for all, harnessing the creative ahilities of Young people and protecting them  from modern illnesses. We also welcome the Director-General? initiative to hold a conference for the  development of technology in the African continent and to set up a technological support fund. We trust the  Organization Will continue to back this vital prqject. We also support the efforts made to convene an international  solar summit, and the initiatives being taken in this respect by the African continent. We welcome the work  undertaken by the Organization to establish firmly the culture of peace in Somalia, Angola, Mozambique,  Rwanda and many other countries within the African continent and elsewhere. It Will only be possible to  implement such ambitious programmes if sufficient financial support cari be mobilized from donor organisations  and countries.
(34.4) Mr President, when 1 talk about the programme of the culture of peace, 1 am talking in terms of Sudan  being one of its main elements. In this context, we mention with pride and appreciation the Director-General’s  initiative in convening the Regional Seminar on the Culture of Peace in Khartoum last April. in which he himself  took part together with the previous President of the General Conference, Dr Ahmed Sayyad, the Chairman of the  Ati-ica Group and a number of senior members of the Organization. 1 had the great honour of accompanying the  Director-General and the UNESCO delegation to my birthplace in the Nuba Mountains, where the delegation  came across the peaceful and harmonious coexistence of different cultures, religions and races. During the visit, 1  became aware of the very real, humanitarian feelings in the heart of Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General of  UNESCO, the sincere affection he has for our beloved tiican continent and the empathy he shows for the  hardships it is undergoing.
(34.5) Only a few months later, in September, UNESCO and the United Nations Development Programme  (UNDP) jointly organized a meeting on the culture of peace in Sudan. This meeting resulted in the Barcelona  Declaration containing principles on which people from both the north and the south of Sudan were able to agree  for the first time. The statement gave recognition to the cultural, religious, linguistic and racial diversity of  Sudanese society and acknowledged that diversity as one of country’s national assets. The statement also affirmed  the commitment of those taking part in the Barcelona meeting to democratic means of government, which we are  trying to establish in our country through a federal system and new political institutions based on the principle of  free and direct elections. 1 confirm in the name of the Government and people of Sudan that we Will spare no  effort to continue and consolidate this great effort initiated by UNESCO by providing a forum for cultural  dialogue that Will pave the way for work towards peacc through the culture of peace programme. We also declare  out total support for the transdisciplinary projects and programmes relating to the culture of peace.
(34.6) Mr President, we hope that the role of the Member States Will go beyond merely expressing praise and  appreciation for UNESCO’s programmes in the culture of peace, and that our efforts may help to mobilize the  rcquisite capabilities and resources in order to ensure that support is both effective and productive. In this  connection, we suggest the establishment of a culture of peace fund, which we believe should receive the highest  priority.
(34.7) Mr President, the speakers at the fiftieth session of the United Nations General Assembly vied with one  another in demanding the introduction of necessary reforms which may allow the Organization to perform its  proper role. We cari proudly say that UNESCO has already begun to reshape itself in order to adapt to a rapidly  changing world. The Director-General has launched a successful initiative aimed at broadening the participation
241    of Member States through numerous regional consultations and has made use of the resulting recommendations,  suggestions and comments in the drafting of both the Programme and Budget and the Medium-Term Strategy.  which provides an intellectual framework that is focused on constants and allows scope for innovation in order to  enhance the Organization’s performance. The move from simple planning to devising a medium-term strategy  constitutes a quantum leap in UNESCO’s working methocls.
(34.X) Given that we value the efforts being made to achieve decentralization as constituting a positive factor  in enhancing performance and as being conducive to a welcome presence of the Organization in the Member  States. we have nothing but praise for the activities of the Regional Offices and particularly for the outstanding  achievements of UNESCO’s two Regional Offices in the Arab States despite the scarcity of resources. We notice,  however. that the appropriations are small in relation to the size of the programmes and activities, and this means  that what they cari offer is rather less than hoped for by the countries of the region. The development of  decentralization Will enable more activities and services to be delegated to the Regional Offices SO that the  Secretariat cari turn its attention to formulating policy and overseeing its implementation. Our country supports  the efforts aimed at improving the Participation Programme and feels there is a need to support the working  languapes of the Organization, especially Arabie. Certainly, the Arab States has some suggestions in this respect,  which they have put forward during their talks with the Director-General. Our country also supports the project  being implemented by UNESCO to preserve the religious, cultural and architectural monuments in the city of  Jerusalem and urges the Organization to continue that project and to make the necessary material and technical  resources available to complete it. Furthermore. my country’s delegation condemns any attempt to change the  identity of Jerusalem.
(34.9) Mr President. human resources development is one of the challenges facing the developing countries  because human resources constitute the very foundation of cultural. social, economic and scientific advancement.  Thr political commitment of the Sudanese Government has. with popular support, led to the development of  educntion to an unprecedented degree. Illiteracy rates have been reduced as a result of a nationwide campa@.  nnd the State has provided basic education opportunities to a11 those who want it. The low-cost buildings prqject  being implemented by the Ministry of Education under the supervision of UNESCO should also be commended.  With regard to higher education. new universities have been established in the various provinces for the purpose  of catering to local cultures and languages and developing both human and material resources in order to achieve  balanced propress. This a11 cornes within the framework of the federal system of government. which our country  adopted in 1993 and which is designed to empower fully the people in the outlying regions that were neglected in  rhe past.
(34.10) In tcrms of communications and int‘c-rrmation. our country has seen remarkable advances with the  establishment of a large number of radio and television broadcasting stations in the provinces in order to promote  national unity by affirminp cultural and religious diversity and strengthening the <pirit of tolerance and harmony  in the different environments at both the local and national levels. Nevertheless, our country, like other least  developed countries. needs a great deal of support to enable it to implement its educational. cultural.  communications and scientific policies. Al1 international policies that place obstacles in the way of these efforts  should be discarded. The greatent of these obstacles is the debt issue and the structural adjustment policies  apphed by international financial institutions.
(34.11) Mr President. the tendency of some countries to impose their cultures. perspectives and methods of  ~~overnrnrnt 011 a11 other countries by various means cari be countered only if UNESCO plays its part in LL  reaffirming the principle of the equal flow of information and the promotion of the cultural industries in the  de\Vcloping countries with a view to disseminating worthy values and establishing a new world order baued on  justice and equality. We are convinced that some countries that have remained outside UNESCO are intent on  preventing the realization of this new order. \vhich is exemplified by the ideals that UNESCO is endea\,ouring to  put into practice.
(33.13) Mr President. 1 take this opportunity to congratulate our Organization cm its fiftieth anniversary. It bas  been and will always remain a forum for imlovation and creativity. just a< it has been and will alway$ remain a  mode1 embodying the best values and the higheqt ideals. Ho\vever. e\ren if it loses the support of the powerful. it  Lvill still remain close to the hearts of those nho love peace. freedom and democracy and are guided by its values  and ideals. Finally. allow me to convey to you greetings from the people ancl Government of Sudan. the people of  Sudan who {vil1 always remain a faithful companion to this Organization on the road to peace. security. dialogue  and tolerance among peoples and cultures.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Sir. The next speaker is Professor Antonio Guerra Caraballo. Under-Secretary  for Education and Culture of Uruguay.
(36.1) Mr GUERRA CARABALLO (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for us to participate as the delegation of  Uruguay in this twenty-eighth session of the General Conference, and we wish first to voice our welcome to the  new members: the Marshall Islands, Vanuatu and the Republic of South Africa.
(36.2) It is particularly gratifying for us, as we begin celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO, to  reiterate on behalf of Uruguay our support for the principles and Constitution of UNESCO and our remembrance  of the founding fathers, whose example ever lights our way.
(36.3) We support the univcrsality of UNESCO and its role as the cultural and intellectual conscience of the  United Nations system, together with its action as a beacon of freedom. tolerance and peace, because without  freedom. tolerance and peace there cari be no science, education or culture. We also stand for the defence of  ethical values, without which cultural. scientific and technological progress may lead to quite abnormal situations  and inadmissible disregard for human dignity.
(36.4) As is traditional with us. our government has set as one of its priorities support for educational  management, in accordance with the pillars on which Uruguayan education rests: instruction of the people  according to the ideas of our national hero Artigas; Varela’s reform begun in the 1870s and making education  f?ee. non-religious and compulsory; and the subsequent introduction of equality regardless of race, sex or religion,  with compulsory education to the end of secondary level and free university education. Whereas life expectancy in  Uruguay is 73 years, according to ECLA sources, the illiteracy rate is below 3 per cent.
(36.5) Seeing that education is a dynamic phenomenon, our education system is in the midst of reforms  involving an improvement in quality, expansion (full-time schools and lycées, together with increased pre-school  facilities for 3- to 6-year olds throughout the country), a redirecting of technical education and diversification of  secondary leaving certificates, regulations and requirements at the university level, among other things. TO tope  with such diverse problems as the break-up of the family, generation gaps, poverty, social exclusion and dizzying  technological changes, responses are required from the education system. One such response for which we have  opted is a full-time approach.
(36.6) Face to face with the coming Century. we know that UNESCO is the place to which we must a11 bring  our ideas to lay down the broad outlines of education for the twenty-first Century. We venture to suggest that a  special conference on education be organized for 1998 in order that UNESCO may decide on policy objectives for  the twenty-first Century where education is concerned.
(36.7) Educating for peace and freedom, preserving thc world’s environment, familiarizing our children and  young people with technology. Literacy used to mean reading and writing; but to prepare for tomorrow today’s  task is to teach computer ‘literacy’.
(36.8) As regards document 28 C15, we concur with and support the resolution proposed by the Director-  General in paragraph 5.2: one of the main challenges at the end of the twentieth Century is to begin the transition  from a culture of war to a culture of peace, a culture of social harmony and of sharing, based upon the principles  of freedom, justice, democracy, tolerance and solidarity. We are aiming for a kind of education and a culture that  reject violence, get at the root causes of conflicts and teach peuple to settle problems through dialogue and  negotiation.
(36.9) With reference to document 28 C/4, among the strategies for contributing to development we agree that  renewal must achieve a better linkage between education and the world of work, hesides giving pride of place to  the teaching of science and technology and to technical and vocational education; it also entails continua1  retraining of the work-force to keep it abreast of technological progress.
(36.10) Among the priorities, we suggest that the strategy aimed at promoting education for a11 take account of  the recommendations of the World Conference on Special Needs Education, held in Salamanca in June 1994, in  order to make integration of the disabled a reality. TO echo the Director-General’s words, which we endorse, in  our world made up of differences of every kind it is not the disabled but society in general that needs special  education to turn itself into a genuine society for all.
(36.11) We agree that creating requires believing, a view endorsed by two Nobel laureates: T.W. Schultz, when  highlighting the importance of investment in education as a means of improving the yield of productive resources  and a buttress for any process of economic growth; and Robert Lucas Jr, for whom education is the basis for the  sustained growth of society and of the welfare of its members. Furthermore, at the recent Fifth Ibero-American  Summit in Bariloche, the 21 Heads of State and Government assumed a commitment to investment in education  as part of their social expenditure, in support of democratic systems and as a key factor in economic growth.
(36.12) Solidarity, respect and collaboration among nations Will be of great assistance to us in achieving these  goals. The example of MERCOSUR, comprising Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, in which we are  moving on from a number of national cultures to a regional culture, facilitating integration in other fields, gives  us reason to believe that this is possible.
(36.13) It is also our hope that UNESCO, like the human individual, may be perfectible; we trust then that it  Will achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness, step up the process of debureaucratization and streamline its  structures as decentralization proceeds.
(36.14) Peace, tare for the environment, educating to do away with such afflictions as AIDS and drug addiction  and combating drug-trafficking are challenges that our States must face together, for the sake of bequeathing a  better world to future generations.
(36.15) We welcome the fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO and wish it a further SO years of sowing peace,  education, culture and well-being for humankind. Thank you very much.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. The next speaker is the Honourable Minister of Education,  Youth and Culture of Jamaica, Mr Burchell Whiteman.
38.1 Mr WHITEMAN (Jamaica)’ :  Mr President, 1 must begin by congratulating you on your well-deserved election to the presidency of  this twenty-eighth General Conference session and, if 1 may, tel1 you that 1 am joined in that expression by  many friends whom you made in Jamaica - save one very special friend, Maurice Garrison, Jamaica’s former  representative on the IPDC, who has been called to higher service.
38.2 1 also join in the sincere welcome to the new Member States of UNESCO, and make very special  mention of the Republic of South Africa. Jamaica is proud to have been the fïrst country after India to ban trade  with apartheid South Africa in 1957, at a time when we were not independent, did not have the legal authority  to do SO but used our political Will. A reminder that small ebullient States cari make a difference.
38.3 1 would also like to convey congratulations and good wishes to the Director-General, to congratulate  him on another good year in office, and to the Chairperson of the Executive Board. She is the only one of the  three dignitaries not to have visited my country yet, and 1 would like to tel1 MS Inayatullah that we await her  and promise her a warm Caribbean welcome.
1 The complete text of H.E. Mr Whiteman’s statement, containing pasages net delivered at the meeting, is reproduced in the Annex,  page 889.
38.4 In this tïftieth year of UNESCO’s existence, a number of circumstances point to the need for an honest  and painstaking programme evaluation. At each of the General Conference sessions which 1 have been  privileged to attend since 1989, hours are spent in discussing and debating ambitious programmes which, when  approved, we fïnd ourselves unable adequately to fund or execute. 1 am afraid this leads to an increasing lack of  credibility as to the effectiveness of the Organization. Three countries have shown their lack of faith by leaving  an Organization that two of them helped to create. And despite concerted efforts of persuasion, they are still  undecided about returning. Perhaps we should ask ourselves if another dangerous situation is not looming when
57 countries (almost a third of our membership) are in danger of losing their voting rights through failure to  meet their tïnancial commitments.
38.5 It seems to me that the Organization should move towards greater programme concentration in an  effort to maximize the use of its meagre financial resources and its thinly spread human talent both at  Headquarters and in the fïeld. With the best Will in the world and even with the mandate of being ‘the think  tank of the system’ or the intellectual lead agency, UNESCO cannot ‘take on board’ or solve a11 the world’s  problems.
38.6 Jamaica and the English-speaking Caribbean have received signitïcant assistance from and through  UNESCO over the past 30 years and we are grateful. In mass communication, educationai reform and  innovation through the provision of Chairs at the University, and an emerging project to relate information  technology to the education system, we cari point to practical, successful projects. Increasingly, however, there  are indications that UNESCO should reduce the number of its priorities. Despite the temptation to broaden the  scope of the Organization, 1 am convinced that imperatives of excellence should force us to become more  focused and consequently more effective.
38.7 Basic education and the improvement of its quality in most States needs to be UNESCO’s primary  concern. We bave to bear in mind that in a majority of countries, education at the basic level is at present the  only realistic expectation of the mass of the youth. Our schools should be capable of equipping Young people,  especially our Young men, with the life skills, including the moral fibre necessary to survive in a world of  violence, drug addiction, petty criminality, environmental pollution and confusing choices.
38.8 If we do accept that the enhancement of the provision and quality of basic education is to be the major  focus of our efforts, then a11 those commendable projects and programmes in which we are now engaged should  be pursued in a way which intrinsically and not peripherally relates them to basic education. Let me hasten to  say that such education Will mean different things in different regions and to different countries. That is a  challenge to the intellectual strength of UNESCO and to its organizational configuration, and another reason  for developing the capabilities and resources of National Commissions - something else which UNESCO has  begun with vigour to do and which Will, 1 contïdently expect, be accelerated in the new biennium.
38.9 But basic education, in our understanding, must mean at the very least that Young people in their  middle teens bave received the skills and attitudes which Will enable them to function in the world around them  as active contributing participants and to go on learning as they adapt to increasing age and to a changing  environment. Of critical importance to that process is the imaging of their own experience, the interpretation  and validation of their immediate environment in a manner affording them self-affirmation in terms of worth,  achievement and opportunity. They must be helped to appreciate and use science both as a tool of critical  analysis and problem-solving and as the basis for technological advance - whether in the field of literacy, the  performing arts, commerce or manufacturing. And of course, the interface, the interlocking, the holism which  blends the sciences and humanities, technology and culture must be consciously embraced as a fundamental  mechanism for shaping the kind of individual and the kind of society that allow the peace which UNESCO’s  Constitution seeks to engender.
38.10 1s it too much to hope that UNESCO’s gift to the world in 1996, when we Will indeed be 50 years old,  Will be a highly visible and meaningful celebration of youth in which we, among other things:  Recognize that it is the attitude of today’s youth to themselves, their local environment and to the world  which Will truly shape life on this planet for most of the next 50 years.  Not only state what UNESCO has done or Will do for them but listen to their story and appreciate their  present concerns and their vision for the future.
246    Relate our projects in culture, heritage, environment, oceanography and other fields to a celebration of  the potential of today’s youth to make a better world for the generations for the next millennium.
38.11 UNESCO cari boast of a proud record of achievements in its relatively short existence. In this very  room, over the past three days, we bave heard the grateful responses of nations whose whole existence lias been  virtually given new life by the spirit of UNESCO. And even as we speak, UNESCO is attempting to provide a  direct line to poverty alleviation, signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the Grameen Bank to assist  poor communities. We believe that our best road out of poverty, out of social turbulence, out of dysfunctional  relationships is the road of education and training, illuminated by the light of science and sheltered and  maintained by the overarching branches of indigenous cultural memory and expression. UNESCO cari provide  a11 our nations with the strategies to achieve these goals. Let us begin the next 50 years more focused, more  eftïcient and perhaps more daring as we seek to equip today’s youth for the challenges of today and tomorrow.  Together, we cari succeed. Succeed we must. Succeed we Will.
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your kind words. 1 cari assure you that in the context of the  International Programme for the Development of Communication we shall miss your great countryman, the late  Right Honourable Maurice Garrison; and 1 tïnd most fitting that you mentioned his name from the rostrum.  And 1 thank you also for staying within the time-limit.
39.2 1 now give the floor to His Excellency, Mr Ahmed Guirreh Waberi, Minister for National Education of  the Republic of Djibouti.
40.1 M. GUIRREH WABERI (Djibouti) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres des délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs,  c’est pour moi un grand plaisir et un grand honneur de m’adresser à cette haute assemblée, à l’occasion de cette  vingt-huitième session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
40.2 Tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, je tiens à joindre mes plus chaleureuses félicitations, pour votre  élection, à celles qui ont été présentées par tous ceux qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune, et j’exprime le souhait  que, sous votre présidence, les travaux de la Conférence générale soient couronnés de succès.
40.3 Voilà maintenant cinq ans que la République de Djibouti fait partie de la grande famille qu’est  l’UNESCO. Et une nouvelle fois, je réaffirme l’attachement de mon pays à la mission fondamentale de cette  Organisation, qui est de contribuer à la paix entre les peuples et à leur développement grâce à l’éducation, la  science et la culture.
40.4 Les conflits sont non seulement le fruit de la culture de la guerre, née de l’incompréhension et des  préjugés entre les peuples et groupes voisins, mais aussi le fruit des agressions meurtrières de l’homme contre la  nature. Cette dégradation de l’environnement est, elle aussi, le résultat dune profonde ignorance des relations  étroites entre nous et l’écosystème. C’est pourquoi l’éducation au sens le plus large, qui inclut non seulement la  scolarisation de base et la lutte contre l’analphabétisme, mais aussi la connaissance et le respect des autres et de  l’environnement, représente un véritable recours pour la survie de l’humanité. Par conséquent, son  développement, susceptible de resserrer la collaboration entre les nations et de permettre une gestion rationnelle  des ressources naturelles, doit être conçu en termes de défi collectif.
40.5 Mon pays, connu pour être une “terre de rencontres et d’échanges” entre l’Afrique et l’Arabie, entre  l’Europe et l’océan Indien, se voit conforté ici dans sa volonté d’aider à assurer la paix dans le monde, et plus  particulièrement dans la Corne de l’Afrique. La République de Djibouti accorde une attention particulière à la  redéfinition du rôle du système des Nations Unies, et en particulier de l’UNESCO qui a , à juste titre, décidé de  renouer avec son idéal originel, clairement défini dans son Acte constitutif, à savoir “élever les défenses de la  paix dans l’esprit des hommes”, atm de répondre au nouvel environnement mondial caractérisé par la  multiplication des conflits internes et leur transformation en affrontements interethniques et  intercommunautaires. Mon pays se réjouit de la récente création au sein de l’UNESCO du programme “Vers  une culture de la paix”, qui concrétise cette volonté.
40.6 A ce propos, je tiens à exprimer ici le fort soutien de mon gouvernement aux efforts déployés par le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO pour permettre l’émergence dune culture de paix en Somalie. Djibouti, qui n’a  jamais cessé d’appeler l’attention de la communauté internationale sur le drame somalien, rend hommage à
247    l’heureuse initiative prise par l’Organisation en permettant l’importante rencontre entre Somaliens qui a eu lieu  à Sanaa, au Yémen. Laissez-moi vous dire, Monsieur le Directeur général, que mon pays est prêt à offrir sa  collaboration pour toute action pouvant faciliter le retour de la paix en Somalie et son intégration dans la région  et dans la communauté internationale.
40.7 Guidé par cette volonte de paix, le gouvernement de la République de Djibouti a toujours considéré  l’éducation comme un secteur prioritaire, parce qu’elle est non seulement un facteur de développement, mais  aussi de tolérance et de compréhension entre les peuples. Malgré les efforts constants du gouvernement en  matière d’éducation, beaucoup reste à faire. Nous devons en effet répondre à une demande de plus en plus  importante de scolarisation, due à l’accroissement démographique naturel estimé à 3 % mais aussi à un flux  migratoire du même ordre. Le nombre de candidats a plus que doublé, alors que le taux national de  scolarisation n’a que faiblement augmenté. Il se situe amourd’hui aux alentours de 45 % dans le premier degré,  bien que nous accueillions en première année tous les enfants djiboutiens qui se présentent.
40.8 Ce paradoxe s’explique par le mode de vie nomade dune partie de la population, vivant dans certains  cas, à l’écart de l’école, et surtout par le nombre de plus en plus grand d’enfants immigrés présents sur notre  territoire. Le problème est grave car ces jeunes constitueront, à terme, de nouvelles générations d’illettrés. De  surcroît, seul un éleve sur quatre passe chaque année de l’enseignement primaire à l’enseignement secondaire,  faute de structures d’accueil suffïsantes. Ces enfants risquent de retomber dans l’illettrisme et de grossir le flot  précédent. Pour faire face aux problèmes qui se posent dans le domaine éducatif, il y a lieu de poursuivre la  nouvelle approche de l’économie de l’éducation dejà mise en oeuvre dans plusieurs pays du Sud en élargissant le  cercle des partenaires éducatifs, car les difficultés sont énormes et les moyens limités.
40.9 Nos préoccupations éducatives ne se limitent pas aux problèmes de scolarisation et de lutte contre  l’analphabétisme. Elles concernent aussi tout ce qui touche à l’environnement. Car Djibouti est un pays  sahélien, confronté à la désertification et à la disparition de la couverture végétale. D’où notre souci d’intégrer  ce thème de l’environnement dans les programmes éducatifs scolaires et non scolaires. Ce sera une occasion de  faire prendre conscience aux qjiboutiens de la spécificité de leur pays, des risques qu’il faut éviter de lui faire  courir, mais aussi des richesses qu’il faut devclopper.
40.10 En ce qui concerne le domaine de la culture, nous nous rejouissons que la dimension culturelle du  développement soit devenue un thème transversal dans les programmes de l’UNESCO. Nous souhaitons, avec  l’appui de l’Organisation, travailler à préserver et promouvoir notre patrimoine culturel national et sous-  régional.
40.11 Enfin, je terminerai en parlant de l’information, vecteur essentiel de notre éducation, pour rappeler que  D.jihouti a la conviction que la libre circulation de l’information, d’une information objective, reste essentielle  dans la formation du citoyen et la défense des droits de l’homme. Dans ce domaine aussi, nous souhaitons que  l’UNESCO puisse accentuer son aide aux efforts de mise en place effective d’une déontologie des médias  concernant plus particulièrement les pays en voie de développement.
40.12 L’apparition des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication constitue un défi qu’il  faudra egalement relever. En effet, nous devons répondre aux questions pertinentes qui se posent à nous dans ce  domaine. Comment combler le fossé qui existe entre le Nord et le Sud ? Comment défendre nos identités  culturelles ‘! Quels sont les moyens qui nous permettraient de ne pas seulement recevoir, mais aussi de donner,  d’alimenter les “autoroutes de l’information”, d’échanger, bref de partager ?
40.13 En conclusion, Monsieur le Président, je suis convaincu que la Conférence saura répondre à nos  attentes et que ses décisions serviront la paix mondiale grâce à la promotion d’une éducation appropriée. Sachez  que vous pouvez compter sur notre solidarité au sein de votre institution, et que la délégation que je conduis  n’épargnera aucun effort pour assurer le bon fonctionnement et la pleine réussite de cette vingt-huitième  session. Je vous remercie de votre bienveillante attention.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister. 1 now give the floor to Her Excellency, MS Beke-Martinez,  Minister for Public Health, Social Affairs, Culture and Sports of Aruba.
42.1 MS BEKE-MARTINEZ (Aruba):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished dignitaries, ladies and gentlemen, it is  indeed an honour and pleasure to be here today. 1 would like to thank the Director-General of UNESCO for his
248    kind invitation and for recognizing our country’s commitment to the cause of peace in the Caribbean region and  in the world as a whole. Furthermore, it is my pleasure warmly to congratulate the President for accepting his  new assignment and, on behalf of my government, we wish you luck and success in such a difhcult and  responsible function. 1 would also like to extend my congratulations to the Director-General on the excellent  documentation provided, especially the Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001, which was the outcome of  consultation between the Secretariat and the members of UNESCO.
42.2 Since 1 January 1986, the island of Aruba has enjoyed a separate status within the Kingdom of the  Netherlands. Formerly, the Island of Aruba was one of the six Antillean islands making up the Netherlands  Antilles, which is also part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The Kingdom thus consists of three  autonomous countries linked under a legal framework laid down in the Charter proclaimed on 15 December
1954. Under this legal framework, the three countries pursue their own interests independently while  remaining bound, on the basis of equality, to attend to their common interest and to provide mutual assistance.  Those basic principles are stated in the preamble to the Charter and elaborated in the Charter itself.
42.3 Yes, Aruba is a small part of the world, but stands tïrmly by the unforgettable words of UNESCO’s  Constitution: ‘Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in thc minds of men that the defences of peace must  be constructed’. 1995 has been proclaimed United Nations Year for Tolerance in order to heighten public  awareness of the threat to peace posed by lack of tolerance between nations, communities and individuals.
42.4 Most Arubans are fairly fluent in several languages. Papiamento is thc Aruban language and it is  influenced by Spanish, Dutch, English and Portuguese. Dutch is the officia1 language of Aruba, while English  and Spanish are compulsory at school and are widely spoken as well. The overall mission is therefore to  educate, inform and empower individuals to assume the responsibilities of dialogue, mutual respect, toleration  and non-violence and to encourage pluralism and tolerance in the policies of Member States.
42.5 The Government of Aruba also shares this common thought and has therefore given priority to  programmes of social and cultural relevance, using both forma1 and non-forma1 means of education, in order to  cnhance the persona1 development of each individual and to promote the habit of support for a richer  community life and a continuing favourable environment.
42.6 The Government of Aruba Will promote the transfer and sharing of knowledge in tore disciplines and  methodologies and interdisciplinary fields, together with co-operation in university teaching and research, in  order to ensure sustainable social development for the eradication of poverty. The contents, methods and  objectives of learning should be made transparent for the less-developed world and, in particular, the Caribbean  region. We Will also strive to reinforce networks and organizations for teaching, advanced training and  rcscarch.
42.7 Education and labour are of great importance to the development of the Aruban cconomy. TO  contribute to sustainable economic growth, the Government of Aruba has started witb the reorganization of the  technical and vocational education system. TO respond to the needs of the labour market, specitïc courses are  organized in ordcr to upgrade the existing skills of working adults. In this perspective, the Government of  Aruba also seeks to improve the working conditions and status of teachers.
42.8 Furthermore, our government Will co-operate with Member States to initiate youth policies and  programmes. especially in the wider Caribbean region, such as artistic creation and preservation of crafts,  training courses for adults and the dissemination of children’s books. Most of our programmes are conducted in  co-operation with non-governmental organizations at a11 levels within local communities for the sake of  cffcctiveness and to ensure that priority target groups such as children, youth, Young adults and women are  reached and benelït most.
42.9 Recently. the Aruban Government, through my Ministry of Public Health, Social Affairs, Culture and  Sports, organizcd the fïrst symposium on women, which was entitled ‘Women of Aruba heading for the twenty-  fïrst Century’. The symposium was very successful, botb emphasizing the role of women as promoters of peace  and mort signifïcantly, asserting that the role of women in the communities had to be recognized and accepted  in the world at large, thereby reinforcing the recommendations of the Beijing Fourth World Conference on  Women.
42.10 Other specific areas of concern claiming the government’s attention are the revitalization and  preservation of our cultural heritage on account of tourism. Here, Young people are also encouraged to
249    participate in programmes where they cari better appreciate their culture and become more aware of their  identity. Every effort is also made to conserve and protect historic monuments and works of art and literature.
42.11 Finally, the idea of upgrading existing co-operation with the region and countries to a more important  role should be fostered. This cari only happen if sharing and mutual respect form the essence of the  relationship. In this same sphere, 1 would like to take this opportunity of expressing my sincere feelings of  solidarity with our brothers and sisters of the Caribbean region who have suffered the misfortune of disasters  caused by several hurricanes in recent months.
42.12 Before concluding, 1 would like to remark that my government Will seriously consider any request  from the UNESCO Caribbean regional organization for tbe hosting of meetings on the Island of Aruba, which  cari offer well-developed telecommunication networks and systems able to caver the whole Caribbean region.  We cari also provide an excellent sports and training centre for special events related to youth exchange  programmes, in addition to a conference centre.
42.13 As we approach the fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO, 1 would like to convey to you in the name of the  Government of Aruba our sincere congratulations and wish you strength and perseverance in our common  endeavours. Much remains to be done in order to fulfil our dream of peace; the task Will be long and arduous  but not devoid of faith or hope. This is UNESCO’s challenge for the next decade and, in this spirit, 1  wholeheartedly extend my best wishes to a11 of you.
43. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The last speaker of the day is His Excellency Mr Liman Ould Tegueddi,  Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance, of Mauritania.    ‘sJnoAvapua sno!Aald asoyl uo pI!nq 11~~ aaua.ra3uoa s!q~ Zuyy  Lauap!sald mail leql ams III~ 1 .saAgaa[qo s,uo~~~z~uvZ.~~ ay .raqurnu e Zu!r\ayae UT IeluauInqsuL aunueClo.rd  leql Suyw sp.c2moj Lw Su01 e JuaM qa!qM ‘aaua!ladxa pUv &g!qe anb!un InoL qj!M r2qye3 aurwaq ah\ y!qM
(44.2) 1 also express sincere congratulations and appreciation to your predecessor, Dr Ahmed Sayyad, whose  wisdom and experience have greatly enhanced the outcome of the Organization’s work. 1 also thank MS Attiya  Inayatullah, the Chairperson of the Executive Board, for her unstinting efforts to bring the work of the Board to a  successful conclusion. As for the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, we have nothing but praise and gratitude  for a11 his efforts to ensure such excellent co-operation between us and the esteemed Organization of UNESCO.  His wisdom and experience have prompted us to stop and examine ourselves critically after SO years of the  Organization’s existence, and this was apparent in his assessment of the issues raised in his speech about how  successful we have been in achieving the objectives for which the Organization was founded. Mr Director-  General, you have gone beyond mere critical self-examination of the Organization and have produced a medium-  term strategy that we are confident Will help to develop the Organization as it embarks upon its new course.
(44.3) Mr President, 1 must commend the Director-General for the excellent manner in which he has drafted  and produced document 28 C/S, which is clear and concise. We also offer our support for the major programmes,  which are in keeping with the times, particularly the culture of peace because it rejects a11 forms of human  conflict and dispute. We therefore appreciate the value of education at its various levels, be it education for all,  basic education or continuing education because without education there would be neither peace nor harmony.  High moral standards, friendship and tolerance are the product of one’s upbringing, which is rooted in education  in its various forms. Mr Director-General, this is what you described in the wonderful metaphor you have often  used about thc train of education that should go round again in order to provide an opportunity for education for  a11 and ensure that everyone plays their part in building an educated society that has peace and culture as its  ultimate goals.
(44.4) Mr President, the education we are seeking needs to be geared to the modern age in which we live and  must meet the basic requirements of Third WorId countries in the various fields of education; in particular, there  is a need to support and develop the UNESCO Chairs and increase their number in the various Afiican countries.  Co-operation with ALECSO and ISESCO could be a useful addition to the implementation of and support for  educational programmes in our region.
(44.5) Mr President, support for UNESCO’s Kegional Offices in the Arab region, çncouragement of the  National Commissions and involving the permanent delegations to UNESCO in the preparation and follow-up of  the Organization’s programmes and activities constitute significant factors and incentives to unite and concentrate  our efforts in a smoothly flowing channel leading from the National Commissions to the Organization’s  Headquartcrs.
(44.6) Mr President, no development cari be achieved without scientific and technological progress. In this  rçspect, the gap between North and Svuth is widening, and UNESCO must play a leading role in the transfer of  technology from the North to the South. We therefore support the bodies established by the Director-General,  such as the International Fund for the Technological Developmcnt of Atrica, which we hope Will be improved and  expanded to other centres. As for renewable resources, this is a prqject we hope Will grow and spread throughout  our region. We have great hopes for the summit that is to be convened next year on this subject.
(44.7) Mr President, people without an identity are lost and those without a culture anonymous. In recognition  of this fact, my country, led by President Maaouiya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, devotes particular attention to the  fields of education, culture and science SO that it may remain a land which radiates civilization and is brimming  with culture. TO this end, we set great store by the cultural programmes contained in document 28 C/S.  particularly the WorId Decade for Cultural Development and the fundamental part it plays in disseminating and  publishing information and keeping the public and decision-makers informed of what cari be done with regard to  the cultural facet of development.
(44.8) The meetings held in various Arab countries (Yemen, Morocco, Mauritania) have been shining  examples to leaders and decision-makers for the design of cultural projects which may restore humanity’s identity  and civilisation. The effort to protect the cultural heritage is a welcome and commendable undertaking that is  reassuring with respect to the functioning of these programmes. In this respect, we cari only commend the projcct  ‘Contribution of Arab culture to Ibero-American cultures via Spain and Portugal’ (ACALAPI), aimed at bringing  together many different civilizations. We also commend the UNESCO Shore to Shore Network (REUNIR).  designed to encourage exchanges between women’s organization around the Mediterranean.
(44.9) Finally, 1 wish both the Organization and our Conference every success.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for your statement, and also for staying within the time-limits.  That concludes our list of speakers for today.
7  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS (suite)  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS (continued)  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS (continuation)
3AQOJDKEHHOCI’M HO B3HOCAM (nponon>Kenne)  (($2) O+tl CrUlpYI  BiX~W (9x)
46.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, concerning voting rights at the present session, the situation as of today is as  follows: 11 Member States have sent communications requesting the right to vote, and these communications  are in accordance with the requirements spelled out in the 26 C/Resolution 23.31 adopted four years ago at the  twcnty-sixth session of the General Conference. Eighteen Member States have sent communications without  the payment proposals stipulated in the said resolution. Thirteen Member States have sent no communications.
46.2 Now, according to the Constitution, if a Member State has been in arrears of contributions for more  than two years, that Member State is not entitled to vote at the General Conference. For Member States in that  situation to be permitted to vote, we have to take a special decision. The tradition is - and this is, of course, also  in conformity with the resolution adopted four years ago - that if the Member States in question communicate  definite payment plans, they Will be given the right to vote even though they have been in arrears for more than  two years.
46.3 On that basis, the General Committee, which discussed this matter this morning, suggests the  following. First, that the General Conference today decides to permit the 11 Member States which have sent  communications in accordance with 26 CIResolution 23.31 to vote. Secondly, that the General Conference  accords voting rights provisionally to the second group, those Member States which have sent communications  but where, for more or less forma1 reasons, these communications are not entirely in accordance with the said  resolution. Lastly, for the third group of Member States, the question would be reconsidercd by the General  Committee at its third meeting on Tuesday.
46.4 In the meantime, and 1 would like to emphasize this very strongly. the Secretariat and 1 personally Will  be in contact with a11 these 13 Member States to make it very clear to them that they have to submit a  communication in order not to lose their voting rights; and that it is in order to give them another chance that  this question Will be reconsidered by the General Committee on Tuesday.
46.5 May 1 takc it that the General Confcrence accepts these recommendations by the General Committee? 1  sec no ob.jections. It is SO decided. Thank you very much.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPI’AHM3AHMR PAEOTbI (nponon>Kenne)  ($) Jbsjtl $a  I~m% ( %)
47.1 The PRESIDENT:  Now, ladies and gentlemen, 1 have two important announcements to make. The first is that the  Chairpcrson of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century, Mr Jacques Delors,  will address the General Conference on Monday afternoon at 3 p.m. 1 would like to inform you that the final  report Will be approved at the last session of the Commission in New Delhi in early 1996. However, the  Commission has prepared for the General Conference a brief preliminary synthesis of the report, and that is  what Will be presented; it Will also be in written form. Let me stress that this is to be a presentation, not a  debate - the debate Will be held later on.
41.2 Secondly, His Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic, is to pay an  oftïcial visit to UNESCO on Monday afternoon, and Will address the General Conference during its plenary  meeting at 5.30 p.m. The list of speakers for that afternoon Will be drawn up accordingly.
47.3 And with these announcements 1 declare the meeting adjourned. 1 wish you a11 a very nice weekend,  even though it Will be a little short. We shall resume at 10 a.m. on Monday.  La séance est levée à 13 h.45  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.45