Dix-septième séance plénière
9 November 1995 at 5.10p.m  President: Mr KROGH (Denmark)  Decimoséptima sesion plenaria
515  _ . _~    TROISIEME RAPPORT DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  THIRD REPORT OF THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  TERCER INFORME DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  TPETI&I ,QOKJIAA IIPEACEAATEJDI KOMBTETA II0 IIPOBEPKE IIOJIHOMOW,Iti  A&Yl$G~ @A w +û.t Lutl J@JI
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we shah start the work of this brief seventeenth  meeting of the plenary. It has been called in order to deal with three items which could not wait until next  week that is to say, two of them could not wait until next week, SO, since we had to cal1 the plenary for these  two items, we have also included a third item in order to save time next week.
1.2 The tïrst item is the third report of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. 1 invite Mr Osman  Jaffar, Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, to take the floor to present his Committee’s report.
2.1 Mr JAFFAR (Malaysia), Chairperson of the Credentials Committee:  Thank you, Mr President. Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, this is my  fourth appearance at the plenary to give a summary report on behalf of the CredentiaIs Committee. Since my  second report given in plenary on 30 October 1995, credentials in due form have been received from one  Member State, namely Maldives, which previously had not submitted any credentials.
2.2 Credentials in due form have, however, also been received from the following countries which up to  then had submitted only provisionaI credentials: Algeria, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cape Verde,  Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Djibouti, Ecuador, Haiti, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Jordan,  Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,  Sudan, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela.
2.3 Credentials were also submitted in due form by the Netherlands Antilles, Aruba and Macao, as  Associate Members.
2.4 In conformity with the authority delegated to me by the Credentials Committee, 1 propose that the  General Conference accept these credentials.
2.5 Finally, the following Member States which had previously submitted no credentials, have now  submitted provisional credentials: Azerbaijan, Dominican Republic, Georgia, Guinea-Bissau, Vanuatu, and  most recently, the Solomon Islands, whose provisional credentials were received only yesterday, 8 November.
2.6 1 propose that the provisional credentials be accepted, pending the submission of credentials in due  form, and that the delegation of those countries be authorized to participate, in the meantime, in the  proceedings of the current session of the General Conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. The substantial part of the  Chairperson’s report is that 177 Member States now have the right to vote if this report is approved. Of course,  the 177th is the Solomon Island% Are there any objections? 1 see none. The General Conference takes note of  this report.  ELECTION DE MEMBRES DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  ELECCION DE MIEMBROS DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbIFOPbI WIEHOB MCIIOJIHHTEJIbHOIO COBETA  +&üJl &I J Pl&c5 +lujl  . -i;-%R?7R%E
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 shall now read out? by electoral group, the results of the fïrst ballot in the  election of Members of the Executive Board.
4.2 Groun 1, in which there are five seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 176; absent: none; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes  recorded: 176; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 89; trames of the Member States  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  France: 43; Sweden: 134; Austria: 118; Belgium: 113; Malta: 95; Turkey: 91; Israel: 86; Portugal: 75.
4.3 Therefore, 1 declared elected Members of the Executive Board: France, Sweden, Austria, Belgium and  Malta.
4.4 Group II, in which there are five seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at present  session: 178; absent: none; abstentions: one; invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes recorded: 175;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 88; names of the Member States candidates  and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Hungary: 163;  Russian Federation: 149; Czech Republic: 144; Slovakia: 136; Ukraine: 127; Croatia: 104.
4.5 Therefore, 1 declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Hungary, Russian Federation, Czech  Republic, Slovakia and Ukraine.
4.6 Groun III, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 176; absent: none; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: two; number of votes  recorded: 174; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 88; names of the Member States  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Brazil: 101; Bolivia: 99; Argentina: 89; Cuba: 78; Colombia: 77; Jamaica: 74; Peru: 60; Haiti: 48;  Suriname: 37.
4.7 Therefore, 1 declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Brazil, Bolivia and Argentina.
4.8 Regarding the fourth seat to be tïlled in this group, a second ballot Will have to take place to elect one  of the following two Member States: Cuba; Colombia.
4.9 Groun IV, in which there are eight seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 176; absent: none; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: none; number of votes  recorded: 176; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 89; names of the Member States  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Indonesia: 154; Japan: 152; Republic of Korea: 137; New Zealand: 133; Bangladesh: 124; Nepal: 124;  Thailand: 123; Pakistan: 114; Samoa: 108; Democratic People’s Republic of Korea: 71; Islamic Republic of  Iran: 62.
4.10 Therefore, 1 declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea,  New Zealand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Thailand and Pakistan.
4.11 Groun V(a), in which there are seven seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at  tbe present session: 176; absent: none; abstentions: two; invalid ballot papers: 12; number of votes  recorded: 162; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 82; names of the Member States  candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Zimbabwe: 123; Cameroon: 113; Senegal: 100; Kenya: 96; Mauritius: 90; United Republic of Tanzania: 84;  Lesotho: 78; Togo: 50; Madagascar: 48; Zambia: 46; Sierra Leone: 45; Uganda: 42; Central African  Republic: 36; Rwanda: 34; Sao Tome and Principe: 27; Comoros: 24; Djibouti: 24; Equatorial Guinea: 20.
4.12 Therefore, 1 declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Zimbabwe, Cameron, Senegal, Kenya,  Mauritius and United Republic of Tanzania.
4.13 Regarding the seventh seat to be filled in this group, a second ballot Will have to take place to elect one  of the following two Member States: Lesotho; Togo.
4.14 Groun VCb], in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 176; absent: none; abstentions: nine; invalid ballot papers: one; number of votes recorded: 166;  number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 84; names of the Member States candidates  and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of tbe number of votes: Saudi Arabia: 147;  United Arab Emirates: 104; Yemen: 92; Lebanon: 87; Libyan Arab Jamahiriya: 39.
4.15 Therefore, 1 declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and  Yemen.
4.16 As indicated yesterday by the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, the ballot papers for the  second ballot are being distributed now, from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m., in the room where the frrst ballot took place.  The second ballot Will take place on Friday, 10 November from 9 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., and not from 9 a.m. to
11.30 a.m. as was announced erroneously in the Journal,
4.17 1 would like to congratulate all Member States which have been elected SO far, and 1 wish to express  warmest thanks, in the name of the General Conference, to all those colleagues who ensured the success of the  voting procedures: to our Vice-President, Mr Noureini Tidjani-Serpos, Permanent Delegate of Benin, who  supervised the counting; and to the four tellers, MS Krek (Slovenia, MS Desroches (El Salvador), Mr Osman  (Qatar) and Mr Dashdavaa (Mongolia), who carried out their task in a most diligent manner, with the equally  diligent assistance of the Secretariat. 1 wish them all the best for tomorrow, when the task Will be more limited,  but equally important.
4.18 The delegate of Kuwait has asked for the floor.
(5) Mr AL-ONAIZI (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President, 1 would like to add my voice to yours in congratulating a11 those who have  been successful in the elections to the Executive Board. 1 have an observation, Mr F’resident, which concerns  Groups V(a) and (b). The names of the candidates in these two groups were put on a single list, which gave rise  to confusion among some voters and meant that 12 votes were invalidated. Therefore, we would like to suggest  that the General Committee recommend the preparation of two separate lists, one for V(a) and the other for V(b),  in order to avoid similar confusion in the future. Thank you, Mr President.
6. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Kuwait. 1 must say that personally, 1 agree entirely with him.  There is no doubt that the unusually high number of invalid votes for Group V(a) was due simply to the fact  that some delegations were under the impression that they were entitled to cast up to ten votes for candidates  from that group. The observation by the delegate of Kuwait is very pertinent, and 1 would recommend to the  next General Conference that candidates from Group V(a) and Group V(b) be presented on two separate  papers. Are there any other observations, comments or remarks on this agenda item? 1 see none. Thank you  very much.  DEMANDE D’ADMISSION DE LA REPUBLIQUE DE NAURU COMME MEMBRE DE L’UNESCO  REQUEST FOR THE ADMISSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAURU AS A MEMBER OF UNESCO  SOLICITUD DE ADMISION DE LA REPUBLICA DE NAURU COMO MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO  ITPOCbBA 0 IIPMEME PECIIYFJIMKM HAYPY B WEHbI IOHECKO  $-+44!jAc Al j& &J&w+ ++l+Jb  ~*~%~@%~~~flA~~*B~
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we now corne to a most agreeable item. You Will recall that at its sixth meeting,  the General Committee recommended that a new item be added to the agenda of the Conference, entitled:  Request for the admission of the Republic of Nauru as a Member of UNESCO.
7.2 The Director-General received an oflicial application for membership from Nauru by a letter dated
1 November 1995. According to the terms of Article II, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of UNESCO, this  request was submitted to the Executive Board which decided to recommend to the General Conference its  acceptance.
7.3 Document 28 C/152, which you all have received, contains a resolution in paragraph 4, and 1 am  convinced that the General Conference Will adopt this resolution by consensus, thereby admitting the Republic  of Nauru as a new Member State. Are there any objections? 1 see none. It is SO decided. 1 herewith declare the  Republic of Nauru is accepted as the 185th Member State of UNESCO, and extend to this new Member, on  behalf of the General Conference, a warm welcome.
7.4 May 1 add in passing that another new Pacifie Member State, Vanuatu, Will in all probability place its  flag here on the rostrum at the beginning of next week.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRARAJOS (continuaci6n)  OPl?AHkl3^4EIH PAEOTM (npo~on>Kenne)  (,$) 3Lo.d $a  E~~I~%cA~ (S!!E 1
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before we end, let me remind you that tomorrow aftemoon in this room, at
3 p.m., we shall have the Round Table on the Delors Report on Education for the Twenty-First Century and on  Saturday aftemoon, we have a similar meeting on the Report of the World Commission on Culture and  Development, which was chaired by Mr Perez de Cuellar. Mr Delors Will be present tomorrow; Mr Pérez de  Cuellar Will be present on Saturday.
8.2 We have already received a large number of requests to participate in these two debates, and 1 would  remind you that the list Will not be closed. However, it would be very helpful to have in advance an indication  of how many speakers there Will be. SO could you please inform the Secretariat as soon as possible if you intend  to take part. Thank you. And with that, 1 declare the seventeenth plenary meeting adjoumed.  La séance est lev6e à 17 h.35  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 17.35