Dix-neuvième séance plénière
13 novembre 1995 à 15 h.15  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Nineteenth plenary meeting
13 November 1995 at 3.15 p.m.  President: Mr KROGH (De-k)  Decimonovena sesion plenaria
13 HoaBpn 1995 r. B 15.15  npexceAaTenb: T-H KPOT (flamx)
639    ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DE VANUATU EN TANT QUE NOUVEL ETAT MEMBRE DE L’UNESCO  SOLEMN WELCOMING OF VANUATU AS A NEW MEMBER STATE OF UNESCO  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A VANUATU COMO NUEVO ESTADO MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO  TOPXECIBEHHbI$I I-IPMEM BAIIYATY B KA=IECTBE I‘OCYAAPCIBA - XJIEHA  IOHECKO
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare open the nineteenth meeting. We Will begin with a very encouraging  ceremony, namely the formal welcoming of yet another new Member State of UNESCO, Vanuatu.
1.2 Vanuatu has just become a Member of the United Nations Organization and as stated in Article 1,  paragraph 1, of the Constitution, this automatically gives them the right to become a Member of UNESCO. The  instrument of acceptance has been duly completed, submitted for consideration and received. And SO, 1 have the  pleasure of announcing acceptance of Vanuatu’s membership.
1.3 Vanuatu, 1 would say on a personal note - because this is certainly not in my brieling - and because of  a personal visit there some years ago, is - 1 know - a prime example of the diversified and vibrant cultures of  the South Pacifie Island States and of the diversity of cultures we find in this House. Our welcome is thus  particularly warm.
1.4 1 shall now invite the Head of the Delegation to place his country’s flag here on the rostrum, in the  midst of the global collection.  (Mr Jacques Sese, Head of the Delegation of Vanuatu, places his country’s flag on the rostrum)  (Applause)  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION 1: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION 1: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION 1: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  AOKJIAA KOMMCCl?II$ III: PE30JIIOIIMEI M PEKOMEI&LIAIIMII  c(b$lg ~IJIjdl : &Yl &LUI &z
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before we take up this item, 1 would like to remind you that - as recommended  by the Executive Board in document 28 C/2, paragraph 2(d), and as agreed by the General Conference earlier  this session - we shall follow the procedure that the Executive Board decided to follow as Erom its 144th  session. In other words, the report Will be presented and submitted for adoption in its entirety. Of course, if a  delegation wishes to mise a specific question, that obviously is possible because the plenary is the supreme  authority of the General Conference. But we shall not proceed in the traditional fashion, point by point.
2.2 Also, 1 would like to make another comment. Improvements in style, idiom and language of the text of  the report, and corrections of mistakes in translation between various languages, Will be incorporated in the  final version which Will be veritied by the Reading Committee. 1 would therefore be grateful, if observations of  this nature are not made here. If you do find minor mistakes, minor inconsistencies, then it would be very  helpful if you make your observations in writing to the secretariats of the respective Commissions or, if you  wish, to the central Secretariat. But, if you think that you have found a translation error which is of major  importance, then it should be mentioned here in the plenary.
2.3 With that, we shah now proceed with the adoption of the Report of Commission 1. There are two  documents to consider, 28 C/l44 and 28 C/l44 Add. and Corr., and 1 now cal1 on the Chairperson of  Commission 1, Ambassador Mohsen Tawfik, to present the report. You have the floor, Sir.
(3.1) Mr TAWF’IK (Egypt), Chairperson of Commission 1 (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to make an oral presentation summarizing the work of  Commission 1. This report is not intended to be exhaustive because it is not possible to discuss in detail  everything that was said during the Commission’s examination of the large number of various items referred to it.
1 hope, however, you Will find in this report the broad outlines of the discussions that took place in the  Commission and the valuable contributions made by a11 the participants, which ensured the success of its work.
(3.2) You Will no doubt remember that we were obliged to compress our work and discuss our report half a  day before the end of the allotted time in order to take part in the activities of the joint meeting of the  Commissions on Saturday, 4 November, which meant that the Secretariat had to work through the night drafting  the Commission’s report and translating it into the various languages. Many new suggestions were also put  forward while discussing the report in the Commission and these are a11 contained in document 28 C/l44 Add.  and Corr., which, together with the report, is now before you. 1 had asked the delegations during the discussion of  the report in the Commission to submit in writing any views they would like mentioned in our oral report to the  General Conference. We received a request from Eritrea to extend the period of the draft resolution on assistance  to that country. We also received a request from Monaco to add to the list of celebrations the seven hundredth  anniversary of Garibaldi’s arrival in Monaco, and one from Haiti in respect of the draft resolution appealing for  support to that country. Since none of these requests were on the Commission’s agenda, we were not able to  consider them, with the exception of the draft resolution relating to Eritrea, to which we Will return later.
(3.3) Permit me to begin with the fiist items of our agenda, Part II.B, Information and Dissemination  Services, Chapter 1 - Clearing House, Chapter 2 - Statistical Programmes and Services, Chapter 3 - UNESCO
647    Publishing Office, Chapter 4 - UNESCO Cour& Office, and Chapter 5 - Office of Public Information. Particular  emphasis was placed on the innovative nature of the Clearing House and the tangible results it has achieved. The  inclusion of the information units in a single chapter in document 28 C/5 was also welcomed.
(3.4) In keeping with linguistic pluralism, a number of Member States asked that a11 information and  documents in UNESCO’s working languages should be made available on the Gopher system of the Intemet. They  also asked for the National Commissions to be connected to the Intemet, which might enhance the exchange of  information between the National Commissions and the relevant institutions. It was felt that consideration might  be given to providing assistance to the National Commissions in that regard.
(3.5) The Commission noted that every effort would be made to set up an integrated and interactive  information system and that work was under way to put documents published in the working and officia1  languages on UNESCO’s Gopher system. That also applied to UNESCO’s sales publications and documents,  which were included in the UNESBlB data base. It was also felt that the Clearing House should continue its  efforts to co-ordinate and harmonize the various information systems in use within UNESCO. It was also  considered necessary to ensure compatibility and interconnection of existing systems, the speedy implementation  of the information policy, and the installation of new systems, particularly UMS and PROMIS.
(3.6) With regard to UNESCO’s Statistical Programmes and Services, the UNESCO Statistical Yearbook was  commended as one of the most successful of UNESCO’s products. Worldwide Education Statistics: Enhancing  UNESCO’s Role attracted similar praise. As regards the latter publication, the Organization was urged to take the  necessary follow-up measures. It was noted that UNESCO maintains what are perhaps the largest data bases on  education, culture and communications, and on science and technology. In this regard, attention was drawn to the  increasing demand for statistics required to formulate policy, statistics that should be accurate, comparable and  based on unifïed and up-to-date standards, and which should be available at the appropriate time. UNESCO was  urged to pay particular attention to statistics relating to its tïelds of competence, and to continue to work on  improving international statistical classifications. It was also asked to strengthen coordination within the  Organization and with the other United Nations Specialized Agencies and institutions. It Will be necessary to co-  ordinate current activities before embarking on new ones in order to avoid duplication. It was also requested that  the National Commissions should be involved in the preparation and distribution of questionnaires in order to  ensure optimum follow-up.
(3.7) Particular stress was laid on the need to increase technical support for the establishment of national  infrastructures in the field of statistics and, at the international level, standardized statistical data bases and  indicators within UNESCO’s fields of competence. Emphasis was placed on promoting enhanced collection and  dissemination of large amounts of good-quality, statistical data, and satisfaction was expressed with regard to the  NESIS’ project, which should be strengthened. A request was made for the phrase Asia and the Pacifie to be used  in matters relating to Member States of the Pacifie region. With regard to regional training seminars on statistics,  UNESCO was requested to ensure that as many areas and countries as possible benefited from such activities,  and particularly countries belonging to the priority groups.
(3.8) Finally, it was noted that UNESCO’s priorities for 1996-1997 were: (a) to provide technical assistance  aimed at building up national statistical capabilities; (b) to improve UNESCO’s statistical data base and the  quality of the data; (c) to design new education indicators and improve the existing ones. Satisfaction was  expressed with regard to the progress achieved in developing greater synergy among the three offices, and with  the fact that they were presented together in a single section in document 28 C!/L~. However, emphasis was also  placed on the need to exert further efforts, including a possible structural reorganization, to ensure a better level  of CO-ordination and integration among these offices. It was felt that, rather than merging the three offices, it  would be more appropriate if they worked in close co-operation with each other but each maintained its own  individuality and character. Emphasis was placed on the importance of assessing the ability of those three offices  to promote UNESCO’s activities. In this connection, one speaker requested a comprehensive survey of public  information resources and that those resources should be pooled within the Secretariat.
(3.9) Emphasis was placed on the importance of the National Commissions as partners who cari play an active  part in transmitting UNESCO’s message through documents and publications, and who cari help to reach the  widest possible audience, thereby improving UNESCO’s image in the eyes of the public.
(3.10) With particular regard to the UNESCO Publishing Office, appreciation was expressed for the work it  had accomplished despite its limited resources. Its present efforts and its creative ability, were now making it  more like a real publishing house. In that connection, developing the practice of co-publishing with commercial  publishers would help to highlight UNESCO’s activities in the Member States much more clearly.  Decentralization of production and diversification suppliers could reduce production costs, which would then  encourage some countries that had made significant advances in that area to become involved in competitive  tendering. In that connection, mention was made of certain modern developments in the fïeld of promotion and  distribution through new technologies like Minitel and the Internet.
(3.11) ‘IXe Commission warmly welcomed the announcement that the National Commissions would in future  receive regularly and free of charge a11 new books and publications. In that connection, it was stressed that the  National Commissions should also be provided with a11 UNESCO documents.
(3.12) Concem was expressed over the unfair treatment and imbalance in the use of the officia1 languages in  UNESCO publications, and it was suggested that that was an obstacle to the dissemination of knowledge.  Emphasis was laid on the essential role played by national languages as valuable tools for providing the public,  and especially people without linguistic skills, with the necessary information about the Organization’s activities.  The assistance of UNESCO was sought for translations and publications in non-offrcial languages through the  Participation Programme and the fund to encourage the translation of UNESCO publications into national  languages (TRANSPUBLK). In that connection, some speakers suggested that quality should corne before  quantity in order to save resources and thereby allow translations to be made into a greater number of languages.
(3.13) Regarding the suggestion that UNESCO should issue greetings cards, information was presented on a  project which had begun to be successfully implemented through commercial companies only this year and would  be extended to the general public in 1997.
(3.14) As for the UNESCO Courier Office, members acknowledged the extensive progress that has been  achieved in that field. However, some concern was expressed over the rise in the production costs of the editions  published away from Headquarters, which were fïnanced by the relevant Member States. Requests were  submitted for additional technical and fïnancial resources, specifïcally to caver the cost of translating the  magazine into national languages, perhaps in a simplitïed edition.
(3.15) Regarding the content of the UNESCO Courier, it was stressed that it did give expression to  international values and was an important means of intellectual co-operation. However, it was suggested that it  would be better to have a broader selection of authors and that its articles should deal with issues taken from a  diverse group of areas and countries. Some speakers also asked for extra pages to be added to the editions  published away from Headquarters. Some of the delegates stressed the importance of undertaking a study on the  marketing of the magazine to the reading public. Concern was also expressed about the quality of UNESCO’s  periodicals.
(3.16) With regard to the Office of Public Information, the main issues raised during the discussions may be  summarized in the following manner: marked progress had been made in the running of that Office and it had  become possible to gain a clearer vision of UNESCO’s activities. Nevertheless, it seemed that UNESCO’s image  in the eyes of the public was not always as positive as it might be, and that the necessary steps should therefore  be taken to improve it. One of the questions raised was whether the ‘step-by-step’ strategy should be replaced by  wide-ranging, publicity campaigns with a view to improving the perception of UNESCO’s activities. In that  connection, the Secretariat announced that it would welcome any information or views taken from the media on  the fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO, or on any other activities of the Organization, which might be used to assess  the effectiveness of the resources produced by the Office.
(3.17) Given that the National Commissions cari help, each in its own country, to improve UNESCO’s image,  the requisite measures should be taken to facilitate co-operation between the National Commissions and national  media. Information materials already translated into the appropriate languages should be provided to the National  Commissions at the right time. In addition, there should be better CO-ordination at Headquarters with the  programme sectors to enable the Office to provide better information on current projects and activities. A good  example of that was the co-operation that pervaded the Secretariat during the Fourth World Conference on  Women held in Beijing last September.
(3.18) Among the various information supports, audio-visual materials were considered to be the most  effective in spreading UNESCO’s message. Some concem was expressed over the scarcity of resources available  at a time when the Office was being expected to,produce more material, and in particular audio-visual materials.  Mention was also made of the Arabie edition of UNESCO Sources, which was to be published by the UNESCO  Publications Centre in Cairo starting with next September’s issues.
(3.19) With regard to item 4.5, the Commission examined the proposals put forward by Member States  regarding anniversaries with which UNESCO might be associated in 1996-1997, a number of delegations  requested new anniversaries to be included and amendments to be made to document 28 C/124, and agreement  was reached thereon.
(3.20) The Commission then moved on to consider item 9.2 ‘Methods of work of the General Conference:  recommendations by the Executive Board’, item 9.3 Implementation of 27 CYResolution 40 conceming balance in  the use of the six working languages of the General Conference and use of other offrcial languages’, and item 9.4  ‘Implementation of 27 C/Resolution 41, concerning balance of languages in UNESCO’s publications’. The  representative of the Executive Board considered document 28 C/47 with reference to item 9.2. He said that the  document was the result of the hard work undertaken by the Executive Board over a period of two years, and that
649  --.    the issues raised there were not contïned only to matters of procedure, given that methods of work were closely  linked to the image that UNESCO projected in the performance of its tasks.
(3.21) The examination of these items was marked by lively and productive discussion. Most speakers stressed  that the general policy debate as currently practised, did not encourage real dialogue or an in-depth debate among  the heads of delegation. It was also suggested that the general policy debate should give Member States an  opportunity to put forward their priorities. In that context, it was suggested that the debate should concentrate on  two points, namely, assessing implementation during the previous biennium and the orientations of the coming  biennium. The possibility was raised that the general policy debate might be between groups of countries, and it  was suggested that proper discussion groups might be organized for heads of delegation to consider certain  specific and well-detïned subjects.
(3.22) A review of the methods of organizing the general policy debate was thought to be necessary to provide  a framework for a real exchange of views. The National Commissions should also be involved in that process.  Most delegates drew attention to problems relating to the submission, classification and processing of draft  resolutions. There was agreement on the need to clarify and simplify the process and to reduce the number of  draft resolutions, giving preference to those draft resolutions with lasting, practical results. There should also be a  commitment to impartiality and objectivity and to a single set of standards when drafting the Director-General’s  remarks on the draft resolutions. In this connection, 1 should like to refer to document 28 C/153, the ninth report  of the Legal Committee and note that what appears in that document does not alter the content of draft resolution
28 C/COM.I/DR.3 recommended by the Commission.
(3.23) Reference was made in the Commission to the difficulty some countries experience in submitting draft  resolutions within the deadlines. In that connection, mention was also made of the general problem of circulating  General Conference documents to the Member States at the appropriate time. Constructive suggestions were also  made on the method of submitting and classifying draft resolutions.
(3.24) Finally, the Commission proposed setting up a working group to examine the structure and function of  the General Conference in order to make recommendations on the most effective means of improving its methods  of work. In this connection, His Excellency the Italian Ambassador has informed me that he Will be making a  short statement on the matter to the plenary session.
(3.25) Regarding the use of the working languages of the General Conference and the balance of languages in  UNESCO’s publications, specific emphasis was placed on the importance of language as a means of defining  cultural identity and of transferring knowledge, and it was stressed that tïnancial diftïculties should not prevent  the achievement of a balance of languages, which is closely linked to UNESCO’s cultural mission. However, it  was suggested that the balance of languages should be on a proportional basis.
(3.26) The situation with regard to the use of the six working languages was felt to be unsatisfactory. Some  speakers regretted the preference for the use of two languages because that was not conducive to spreading  UNESCO’s message. They felt that greater efforts should be exerted to use Chinese and Arabie and that other  languages spoken by hundreds of millions of people should also be taken into account. The fund for encouraging  the translation of UNESCO’s publications into national languages (TRANSPUBLIC) might help to address that  situation.
(3.27) As for the use of other officia1 languages, it was noted that the efforts of the Director-General aimed at  extending the use of Portuguese had not achieved the desired results. The Organization was urged to continue its  efforts to have Portuguese used at meetings attended by Portuguese-speaking countries, and to encourage the  translation of publications into that language.
(3.28) A number of delegates expressed serious concerns over the use of Arabie in UNESCO’s publications,  both in terms of quantity and quality. There should be CO-ordination between the various Arabie-speaking  countries in order to arrive at a unified terminology. Correspondence from the Secretariat to Arab countries  should also be in Arabie. It was further requested that UNESCO’s field experts should be familiar with the  language of the place in which they are working, and that national reports should be made available in the  language of the country in question.
(3.29) The Commission then examined Part RC - Participation Programme. This programme is thought by  Member States to be an important means for implementing UNESCO’s programme. While acknowledging the  progress achieved in this field, there was general agreement on the need to continue improving the programme.  Emphasis was placed on the need for greater clarity, efficiency and transparency, the need to use information  derived from the relevant authorities, to rationalize processing and to accelerate implementation, and the need to  abide by the order of priority of the requests submitted by Member States. It was also suggested that information  on the volume of assistance provided to each country should be made available.
(3.30) Regarding draft resolution 28 tYDR.361, which has been examined by both the Administrative  Commission and Commission 1, the amendments made in paragraph 4 of this resolution are the same as those  agreed upon by the Administrative Commission.
(3.31) 1 should also like to point out that Commission IV has suggested that we mention in paragraph 36 of our  report that the amount of US $22,000,000 includes US $1,500,000 for the activities of the World Decade for  Cultural Development.
(3.32) The delegate of Portugal has put forward many suggestions for improving the Participation Programme,  such as setting time-limits for the consideration of requests, adhering to the priorities identitïed by Member  States, regular assessment of the Participation Programme and strengthening the unit responsible for the  programme, Finally, an external review of the Participation Programme was requested, with a report on the  results of the review to be submitted to the 149th session of the Executive Board.
(3.33) The Commission then proceeded to examine Part III - Support for Programme Execution, Chapter 1 -  Bureau for External Relations, Chapter 2 - Bureau for Relations with Extra-budgetary Funding Sources,  Chapter 3 - Programme Support Services, item 8.1 ‘Sexennial report by the Executive Board on the contributions  made to UNESCO?+ activities by international non-governmental organizations’ and item 8.2 ‘Revision of the  Directives concerning UNESCO’s relations with international non-governmental organizations’.
(3.34) Having acknowledged the efforts being made by the National Commissions and UNESCO Clubs  Division to enhance the role of the National Commissions in the Organizationk work, delegates also emphasized  the need to increase their resources and capabilities and pursue their efforts. The activities set out in document
28 C/5 relating to co-operation with the National Commissions was broadly welcomed, and emphasis was placed  on the importance of communication and training, particularly for those in less privileged situations. The  measures taken by the Secretariat in that respect were greatly appreciated. The forthcoming publication of a  practical guide for the use of National Commissions was also welcomed because such a guide would constitute an  important training tool for those working in the National Commissions.
(3.35) Other aspects of co-operation were mentioned, such as setting up a computerized network and an e-mail  link to provide the National Commissions with information on the activities of the Organization, to establish  communications between the National Commissions and to make arrangements for twinning both within and  outside the regions. Emphasis was placed on the importance of regional consultations between the National  Commissions as a necessary step towards improving co-ordination, especially when preparing for the General  Conference.
(3.36) With regard to the achievement of decentralization, mention was made of the need to forge Gloser links  between the field offices and the National Commissions, and to ensure that such links were based primarily on  integration. Emphasis was also placed on the positive role played by the National Commissions with respect to  the preparation of documents 28 C/4 and 28 C15.
(3.37) Finally, attention was focused on the role of UNESCO’s Clubs, Centres and Associations in  strengthening the culture of peace in Member States at the grass-roots level. Some delegates expressed their  support for the training of Club leaders, support for Club activities and the development of networks of Clubs and  Centres and noted the role of Young people in the activities of nearly 5,000 Clubs a11 over the world. A consensus  emerged which called for such networks not to be contïned to subregions but to be established at the regional and  interregional levels. In that connection, support for the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and  Associations (WFUCA) and the development of the Club movement as proposed in document 28 C/S was warmly  welcomed.
(3.38) In addition to delegations from Member States, many representatives of non-governmental organizations  took part in the debate on UNESCO’s relations with international non-governmental organizations. Al1 the  speakers emphasized the valuable and active input of the NGOs to the preparation and implementation of  UNESCO’s programme. In this connection, deep appreciation was expressed for the successful achievements of  the Executive Board’s working group, which was established to assess co-operation between UNESCO and NGOs  and to submit recommendations for new initiatives in UNESCO’s relations with NGOs within the framework of  the Medium-Term Strategy. That new approach was to give priority to the intellectual aspects of such co-  operation, aspects that are more closely linked to the priorities of UNESCO’s programme than to financial  support.
(3.39) Regarding methods of classifying international organizations, it was noted that a11 the information  relevant to the subject would be presented to the 149th session of the Executive Board. It was also noted that  NGOs would be valuable partners which could help the National Commissions to involve civil society in their  activities. In that connection, it was felt that the National Commissions should obtain more transparent and  accurate information of an evaluative nature on the activities of UNESCO and its Regional Offices and on the
6.51  T-    agreements made with NGOs. The new NGO data base would constitute a valuable source of information, which  should be made available to a11 Member States.
(3.40) With regard to partnerships with representative bodies of civil society and with private sector partners,  which were submitted to the Commission in the context of draft resolution 28 0DR.377, the Director-General’s  representatives made it clear that, although they shared the same concerns as those expressed in the draft  resolution, they felt that the amended text of the draft resolution, in the format approved by the Commission, did  not conform to the aims of the 1991 Directives concerning UNESCO’s relations with foundations and similar  institutions, which governed relations with non-profit-making foundations and institutions.
(3.41) One speaker requested that it be officially placed on record, in the context of submitting the new  directives, that NGOs should remain bound by the resolutions of the General Conference conceming relations  with Taiwan, which were still in force.
(3.42) Concern was also expressed over the appropriate structure for the Organization, which should not  encourage the proliferation of small units. In that context, the Commission supported the Executive Board’s  recommendations on co-operation with volunteers and voluntary service, which was discussed in Chapter 1 -  Bureau for Extemal Relations.
(3.43) With regard to the Bureau for Relations with Extra-Budgetary Funding Sources, there was a general  feeling of satisfaction with its activities even though some speakers expressed a desire for more information on  the various funds available, the ways in which they might be used and methods of obtaining extra-budgetary  funds.
(3.44) Particular stress was laid on the role of the National Commissions in implementing and following up  projects funded from extra-budgetary sources. The National Commissions also expressed their desire to be  provided with pertinent information on the possibilities of applying for study grants, and to be more involved in  nominating candidates for study grants, evaluating them and monitoring action taken with respect to them. In that  context, the Commission recommended in the course of its discussion that the General Conference should adopt  draft resolution 28 (YDR.455, as amended by Cuba, France and Uruguay, which reaffirmed the role of the  National Commissions in screening and awarding the grants.
(3.45) Regarding the concern shown by the National Commissions to participate in the process of  implementing operational activities funded from extra-budgetary sources, the Director-General’s representative  noted tbat Member States were entitled to Select the national partners for the implementation of those activities.
(3.46) Tbere was general agreement over the importance of the support and back-up for the work of the  General Conference provided by the Secretariat’s documentation and conference facilities. One delegate  commended the progress made with regard to documentation and the reduction thereof; however, he pointed to  the need for an improvement in the quality of translations. He also sought improvements in the deadlines for  sending documents to Member States.
(3.47) The Commission then examined item 5.3 ‘Implementation of 27 C/Resolution 19, concerning the appeal  for assistance to Eritrea’, item 5.4 ‘Implementation of 27 CIResolution 20, concerning the appeal for assistance to  Ethiopia’, and item 5.5 ‘Implementation of 27 C/Resolution 21, concerning the appeal for support to Haiti’. The  Commission recommended that the General Conference should take note of the documents relating to those items.
1 have already referred, at the beginning of my statement, to matters concerning Eritrea and Haiti.
(3.48) Finally, 1 should like to say with regard to item 9.6 ‘Definition of regions with a view to the execution of  regional activities’ that our Commissions draft report mentions only those regions for which changes have been  made or to which new Member States have been admitted.
(3.49) Mr President, representatives of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, 1 cannot conclude my oral presentation without expressing my sincere thanks to a11 the representatives  of Member States who have made a positive and enthusiastic contribution to the work of our Commission, and to  the Director-General himself for his endeavours, his courage and optimism with regard to the Organization’s  future, as well as to a11 the Director-General’s representatives and to Mr Gardos, Mr Phonekeo, Mr Nsengimana  and Mr Pifion, for their active participation. Special thanks ah.0 go to the Commission’s Rapporteur, Mr Musil,  who worked tirelessly and with great vitality. My greatest thanks, however, go to MS Pavlic, the Commission’s  Secretary, and MS Tanaka, the Assistant Secretary. They exerted extraordinary efforts to ensure that our  Commission was completely successful. 1 also extend my sincerest thanks to the members of the Secretariat team,  Mr Espinal, Mr Huang, MS Mouillère and Mr Mykoliunas for all they did to make the Commission’s work a  success.
(3.50) Mr President, 1 have now corne to the end of my oral presentation of the work of Commission 1.1 thank  you a11 for your attention and patience. My report may not have been comprehensive but 1 have tried my best to
19  explain as clearly as possible the issues and subjects raised during the course of the Commission’s work. 1 would  like to express my appreciation for your understanding and indulgence, and am sure that you are aware of the  time constraints under which we were working. 1 hope this report with its addendum and corrigendum meets with  your approval. Thank you very much.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Tawtïk. 1 must admit 1 became a little worried when you said that  your report was not exhaustive because 1 was planning to thank you for a very exhaustive report, SO now 1 do  not know exactly how 1 am to thank you! At all events, this is a very comprehensive report which, of course,  reflects the fact that Commission 1 was indeed entrusted with a wide variety of subjects. The presentation alone  has given us a very vivid impression of the many different issues you had to tope with.
4.2 Ambassador Tawfik, you have extended your own thanks to everybody else concemed with the work of  the Commission, SO 1 shah limit myself to thanking you for your chairing its meetings and for the work you  have put into this. 1 know that this was at times a demanding task, but we cari judge from the final result that  you and your Bureau managed to conduct the business of Commission 1 to a very satisfactory conclusion.
4.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the report has been presented to you in the new way we agreed on at the  beginning of the session: the totality of the work of Commission 1 is in front of you. Obviously, this does not  prevent anybody from taking the floor to mise points, to comment on the various draft resolutions contained in  document 28 C/l44 and Add. and Corr. What 1 would suggest is - as the Chairperson of Commission 1 has  already informed us that Italy would like to make a statement conceming the proposaI that a working group be  set up with a mandate to examine the structure and function of the General Conference and recommend the  most effective means to improve its methods of work - that we begin with that issue. 1 see that the delegates of  Mali and of Russia wish to speak; please bear with me, otherwise there Will be confusion. Ambassador Leo of  Italy, 1 give you the floor.
5. M. LEO (Italie) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je crois qu’il y a un petit malentendu. La délégation italienne  n’a jamais proposé de créer un tel groupe de travail. Bien au contraire, comme cela ressort du rapport du  Président de la Commission 1, elle a voté contre le projet de résolution lorsque la Commission s’est prononcée  et, à cet égard, je fais référence au paragraphe 30 du rapport de la Commission 1 contenu dans les documents
28 C/l44 et 28 C/l44 Add. et Corr. Cela étant précisé, Monsieur le Président, la delegation italienne désire  faire la déclaration suivante : pour ce qui est du paragraphe 30 du rapport et notamment du projet de resolution  tendant à créer un groupe ad hoc chargé d’examiner la structure et la fonction de la Conférence générale, elle  continue à formuler une reserve essentiellement mais non exclusivement d’ordre juridique. Néanmoins,  soucieuse de ne pas faire obstacle au consensus, elle ne s’oppose pas à l’adoption du projet si tous les autres  Etats membres y sont favorables. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
6. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Leo. 1 am very sorry if 1 have expressed myself in a way which  could be in any way construed that 1 was thinking about an Italian proposal. It was certainly not my intention in  any way to imply that there was an Italian proposal on this issue. But, thank you very much for your statement.  May 1 ask if there are any other delegations who want to express themselves on m issue - on this specific issue  commented upon by Italy. Yes, Russia you have the floor.
7. I-H @EAOTOB (Poccnticxarr Qe~epaqnzr):  Enaronapro, T-H IIpencenaTenb. Mm nonflep>I<nsaeM 3~0~ IIpOeKT pe3onIoqEE E 0VeHb  Gnaro~apnbr MT~JIHH 3a rOTOBHOCTb K COTpy~HEFIeCTBy. 3Ta pe3OJIIoqEsI TOJKC HaC He BnOJIHe  ycTpaEBaeT, HO MbI rOTOBb1 IIO~JfepXaTb KOHCeHCyC. OjJHaKO eCTb OnHa MaJIeHbKaR IIOIIpaBKa  pe~axqaonnoro ILnana. Aeno 3aKJIrouaeTcII B TOM, ¶TO B JroxyMeHTe 28 C/l44 Add. H Corr. no  IIJ'HKTJ' 30 BMerorcff ncnpaarrenn~. 3Aecb HaM IrpenJrarae-r KOMIZCCEX 3aMeHETb O?(~H a63aq no  IIOBOny Tore, 9TO CIIeIJEaJIbHaSI pa6ouaa rpynna IIpe~cTaBnaeT CBOH 3aWH)¶eHEuI sacenaHEI0  kkIIOJIHI-iTeJIbHOrO COBeTa Ao cnoero pocnycea. IIpennaraeMarr 3aMena nnoJrne npasmrbnaa, no  J&WIbIIIe HaM IIpeflJIarae'IUI eqe CHRTb CJIOBa 'AO CBOerO pOCIIyCKa" II flo6aBETb HOBbIfi IIyHKT.
806aBneHFïe HOBOrO IIyHKTa a6conIoTHo IIpaBEJIbHO E JIOrH¶HO, HO CHxTb CJIOBa NAo cBoer0  POCIIyCKa" MbI He MOXeM, IIOCKOJIbKJJ OHE yXe CHRTbI lIpeJJbI!Jyqefi IIOllpaBKOk nO3TOMy HaM  IIpOCTO HyXHO 3TH CJIOBa BbFIepKHyTb. 3Ta IIOIIpaBKa yXe CymeCTByeT, MM He MOWeM ABa pa3a  E3MeHXTb OAHO E TO Xe. &IarOjJapIO Bac 38 BHEMaHEe.
(7) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. We support this draft resolution and are very grateful to Italy for its readiness  to collaborate. This resolution does not entirely satisfy us either, but we are prepared to support a consensus.  However, there is one small correction of an editorial nature. The fact is that in document 28 C/l44 Add. and  Corr., there are amendments to paragraph 30. Here the Commission proposes that we should replace one  paragraph, to the effect that the ad hoc working group should present its conclusions to an Executive Board  meeting prior to their submission to the General Conference ‘which Will dissolve it’ (i.e. the ad hoc working  group). The proposed replacement is perfectly sound, but further on it is proposed yet again to delete the words  ‘which Will dissolve it’ and to add a new paragraph. The addition of a new paragraph is quite correct and logical;  but we cannot delete the words ‘which Will dissolve it’, inasmuch as they have already been deleted by the  previous amendment. Al1 we need to do, therefore, is to strike out these words. This amendment already exists,  and we cannot change the same thing twice. Thank you.
8. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The delegate of Mali has the floor.
9. M. HAÏDARA (Mali) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Le Mali n’est pas tout à fait satisfait du texte qui nous est  soumis mais comprend très bien le souci de ses auteurs qu’il partage entièrement. Notre délégation se ralliera  donc au consensus général. Toutefois, nous souhaiterions que soit apporte à ce texte un petit amendement  destiné à éviter, ou à atténuer tout au moins, l’impression d’une forme de marginalisation du Conseil exécutif  qui en ressort. Au paragraphe 5, à la suite du membre de phrase “Prie le Président de la vingt-huitième session  de la Conference générale de constituer, en consultation avec le Directeur général”, ce que nous approuvons  entièrement et ce dont nous nous félicitons, nous proposons d’ajouter les mots suivants : “et avec le Président du  Conseil exécutif’. Le début du paragraphe se lirait donc comme suit : “Prie le Président de la vingt-huitième  session de la Conférence générale de constituer, en consultation avec le Directeur genéral et avec le President  du Conseil exécutif, un groupe de travail”, la lin étant sans changement. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Are there any other comments on this? 1 believe not. 1 Will try to sum up: the  General Conference takes note of the Italian reservation. We have the Russian observation that you cannot  make two changes, SO to speak, of the same kind - that is, of course, with regard to the solution of this problem,  which is, just to tidy up the language. As 1 understand it, the idea is that the group is ad hoc and Will be  dissolved after it has finished its work in two years’ time. That just has to be made clear in the text. Then there  is a concrete proposa1 from Mali that, in setting up this group, the President of the General Conference should  consult not only the Director-General, but also the Chairperson of the Executive Board. That is where we are at  the moment. And now France has the floor.
11. M. POUSSIN (France) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. La délégation française estime tout à fait utile la création, à  votre initiative, de ce groupe d’experts placé sous votre presidence. Nous confirmons donc pleinement notre  accord. Comme l’indique l’addendum au projet de rapport, nous avions exprimé une réserve sur un point qui  était le nombre d’experts. Nous continuons de penser qu’il aurait été preferable que le groupe soit un peu plus  large. La solution aurait pu être de proposer qu’il soit formé de 18 membres. Si une telle proposition faisait  l’objet d’un consensus ici, nous en serions ravis. Si cela n’était pas le cas, nous ne voudrions en aucune manière  remettre en cause ce groupe de travail qui vous paraît trop important et nous retirerions immédiatement cette  proposition que nous présentons donc sous réserve d’un accord immédiat et total de la Conférence générale. Je  vous remercie.
12. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Obviously you have a suggestion and 1 Will ask the General Conference whether it agrees  or not. But lirst of all, Denmark has asked for the floor. You have the floor.
13. Mr HANSEN (Denmark):  Thank you, Mr President. This is a question to Mali: whether it is the present Chairperson of the  Executive Board or the future one who should be consulted. Thank you.
14. The PRESIDENT:  Would the delegate of Mali like to answer this question? Mr Ambassador, you have the floor.
15. M. HAÏDARA (Mali) :  Monsieur le President, je pense que nous raisonnons du point de vue des institutions et non des  personnes. Pour moi, le Conseil exécutif a toujours un président, qu’il s’agisse du titulaire actuel de la fonction  ou de son titulaire futur. C’est une question de principe, je n’ai absolument aucun préjuge vis-à-vis de qui que ce  soit. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. In other words, this Will be a question of timing, of when the consultation is  going to be held. SO we have two suggestions for minor changes in the text. Madagascar has asked for the floor.
17. M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Comme vous avez pu le constater dans le document 28 C/l44 Add. et  Corr., nous avons exprimé des réserves au sujet du texte à l’examen lors de l’adoption du rapport de la  Commission 1. Je voudrais simplement appuyer l’amendement proposé par l’honorable délégué de la France en  ce qui concerne le nombre d’experts devant composer le groupe de travail, à condition effectivement que se  dégage un consensus général et immédiat sur ce nombre en séance plénière. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  Président.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The delegate of the Russian Federation has asked for the floor.
19. F-H QEAOTOB (PoccHficKax @enepaqHrr):  BJraronapm Bac, T-H IIpegceAaTenb. 5I xoTea 6bI noAnep>I<a% npenJroXenHe M~JIH m B  CBOH3 O¶epeAb cKa3aTb, wo, Ha Mofi mxx~, perueHne BOIIpOCa 0 TOM, C KaKEIM HMeHHO  lIpeAceAaTeJreM khIOJIHHTeJIbHOr0 COBeTa HyXHO IIpOBOAHTb KOHCyJIbTaqEIEI II0 COCTaBy,  peLUaeTCX 09eHb IIpOCTO. ECJIH BbI KaK npeflCenaTeJIb reHepaJIbHOti KOH@epeHIJHH 6yneTe  @OpMHpOBaTb 3Ty KOMEICCHH) CerOnHH, TO BbI 6yAeTe KOHCyJIbTHpOBaTbCII c npeACenaTeJIeM  &'hIOJINHTWIbHOrO COBeTa, KompbIti ~e%.xByeT ceroAHx. ECJIH BbI 6yAeTe co3AaBaTb my  KOMMCCFIIO nome Tore, KaK MCIIOJIHHTeJIbHbIfi COBeT HOBOrO COCTaBa tr36epeT CBOerO  rrpeAcenaTem, To BbI 6yueTe Torna KOHCyJIbTkipOBaTbCR c HoBbIM lXpeAceAaTeneM  i'hIOJIHI'fTeJIbHOr0 COBeTa. MHe KaXeTCX, UT0 IIosmqnx Mann a6coJImTHo JIOrH9Ha. 6JIaI’O~apIo.
(1% Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to support the proposa1 of Mali and to say in turn that in my  opinion, the question as to which Chairperson of the Executive Board the President should consult concerning its  setting up cari be answered quite simply. If you, as President of the General Conference, were to establish this  group today, then you would consult the Chairperson of the Executive Board who is performing that function  today. If you established this group after the new Executive Board had elected its Chairperson, you would then  consult the new Chairperson of the Executive Board. It appears to me that the position of Mali is completely  logical. Thank you.
20.1 The PRESIDENT:  Exactly. SO, with these remarks, may 1 ask the plenary the following two questions. 1s there agreement  that the beginning of the fïrst operative paragraph of the draft resolution be amended to read ‘Reauests the  President of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference, in consultation with the Director-General and  the Chairperson of the Executive Board, to establish . . . ‘? In other words, Mali’s suggestion, which is now  supported by Russia. 1s there any objection to that proposal? 1 see none. It is SO decided.
20.2 Then France, supported by Madagascar, has suggested that the number of members of that group  should not be 12 but 18. And, 1 ask again, are there any objections to that suggestion? The delegate of Uruguay  has the floor.
(21) MS RENNA VALDEZ (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 do not know the reasons which have led France to propose increasing the  number of members of this group which is supposedly going to work on methods of speeding up and streamlining  the proceedings of the General Conference. If there have to be 18 it is better to drop the proposal and leave it to  the Executive Board and its Special Committee to look into the question again and find an answer. In my  understanding, as an administrator and with a certain experience of administration, 1 think that 12 is more than a  sufficient number to work on ways of speeding matters up. Even taking into account the number of members of  the General Conference, 12 could be a reasonable figure. Perhaps France could indicate what is the point of  having 18 members.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 Will give France one chance to convince Uruguay.
23. M. POUSSIN (France) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je crois que la seule réponse qui puisse être donnk, c’est tout  simplement que nous nous fondons sur l’expérience acquise avec les groupes antérieurs, dont nous avons pu  constater combien ils étaient efficaces à 18 et très peu faciles à constituer à 12. Je pense, d’ailleurs, que cet  amendement allait dans le sens de la réserve que l’Uruguay avait formulee, comme Madagascar et la France, à  la Commission 1, sur le nombre de 12. Je vous remercie.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Sweden and then Uruguay.
25. Mr LINDAHL (Sweden):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 would like to support the French proposal with another argument, namely,
1 think it is more easy to get a good regional distribution with three instead of two from each group, SO 1 think  that is quite a justification for ensuring a good report. SO, 1 would add that reason to the French argument.  Thank you, Mr President.
26. The PRESIDENT:
1 sec that France is nodding, SO they agree with your additional argument. Uruguay, were you  convinced?
(27) MS RENNA VALDEZ (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  The additional argument just put forward is very reasonable.
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much! Well, if there are no other comments, 1 take it that this amendment is also  carried. SO, the group Will number eighteen. It is SO agreed.
28.2 Are there any other comments on l.h& issue, the issue of this working group? If not, may 1 take it that  the resolution is adopted? The delegate of Italy has asked for the floor.
29. M. LEO (Italie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. J’avais bien précisé que nous formulions certaines réserves mais que  nous ne ferions pas obstacle au consensus et que nous ne nous opposerions donc pas à l’adoption du projet de  résolution. Les améliorations qui viennent d’être apportées à ce dernier nous incitent davantage encore à nous  rallier au consensus général. Je vous remercie.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Leo, SO there Will be no Italian reservations, 1 take it. Thank you  very much. 1 Will now ask the plenary whether there are any other comments on the report of Commission 1  conceming the draft resolutions contained in documents 28 C/l44 and 28 C/l44 Add. and COIT. Yes, Russia,  you have the floor.
31. r-~ QEAOTOB (PoccHticKaz QeAepaqHH):  BnaroAapm Bac, r-H npenceAaTenb. MbI ~~OCHJIE 6bI o6paTHTb BHHMaHHe Ha IJI~HKT 29  B AoKyMeHTe 28 C/l44 H 28 C/l44 Add. H COIT. B nocJrenHeM npeAnaraeTcx mrecm H3MeneHnx B  npoeKT pe3onIoqmï no IIYHKI?~ 29, H MbI npeAJraraeM cAenan 3m~ WKCT HecKonbKo 6onee
19  mipoKEM E npegnaraeM mMeHmb ero cJIe)gwmpM o6pa3oM: "npennoxEm l?eHepa.nbHoMy  AHPeKmPY IIpeJJcTaBETb I~~~~~H~~JI~II~MY COBeTy 'ECCJIe~OBaHHe 0 BOJMOxHbIX IIyTSIX  OrpaHEseHm ¶ECJIâ IIpOeKTOB pe3OJIIO& Ii IIOIIpaBOK, npe~cTaanseMbIx rocy~apcmaME-
9JIeHaME". TaKEM o6pa3oM, MbI CMOrJIE 661 ykIYI# OT O~HO3Ha¶HOrO OTBeTa, KOTOpbIti BbITeKaeT  H3 AaHHoro IIOpy¶eHm. Ecnn MbI XOTEM, wo6bI kHepaJIbHbI2 AEpeKTOp IIpqCTaBEJI  Eccne~oBaHEe, TO MbI He AOJIxHbI eMy 3apaHee HaBII3bIBaTb OTBeT. Iinaronapm 3a BHHMaHHe.
(31) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr I’resident. We should like to draw attention to paragraph 29 in document 28 C/l44 and
28 C/l44 Add. and Corr. In the latter it is proposed to modify the draft resolution in paragraph 29. We propose  that this text should be somewhat more broadly worded and suggest that it should be amended as follows: TO  invite the Director-General to submit to the Executive Board a study on possible ways of limiting the number of  draft resolutions and amendments submitted by Member States’. In this way we would be able to avoid the single  answer which these instructions would have dictated. If we wish the Director-General to submit a study, we  should not force the answer on him beforehand. Thank you.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Are there any comments on this specific suggestion? Do you have any  comments, Mr Tawfik?
(33) Mr TAWFIK (Egypt), Chairperson of Commission 1 (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr F’resident, 1 referred to this very point in my report. 1 stated that the ninth report of the Legal  Committee in no way contradicted the conclusions reached in our report. However, if the delegate of the Russian  Federation feels that the Director-General needs only to submit a report on the number of draft resolutions  submitted and not on the limitation of that number, then 1 believe that that would not change very much, nor  would it affect the proposed draft resolution because it is generally recognized that what would be proposed  would not be for a greater number of resolutions to be submitted. Thank you.
34. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. SO, in order to be sure, do 1 understand the Russian proposa1 to be that in  operative paragraph 2 of the draft resolution in paragraph 29, instead of asking the Director-General to submit  to the Executive Boa-rd ‘a study on the limitation of the number of draft resolutions’, it should be ‘a study on the  possible limitations . ..‘. 1s that correct?
35. l?-H Q>EJJOTOB (Poccnticxax cDenepaqmr):  EJIarOgapIO Bac, r-H npeJ(CenaTeJIb. Pc¶b IQeT 0 B03MOXHbIX IIyTRX OI'paHE¶eHHR =IECJIa  IIpOeKTOB, IIpeflCTaBJIHeMbIX rOCy~apCTBaME-WIeHaME. MbI He J(OJI>KHF,I cpa3y IIpennaraTb  reHepa.lIbHOMy AEpeKTOpy eJJEHCTBeHHbIji OTBeT, eAEHCTBeHHbI+ C~OCO~ OlJlaHE¶HTb o6qee ¶ECJIO  IIOIIpaBOK E pe30JIK)IJFïk MoxeT 6brrb eREHCTBeHHbII? C~OCO~ OI'paHE¶ETb - 3TO yCTaHOBETb  KBOTy JY(JIrr Kaxnoro rocyflapcma-WIeHa. 9 He yBepeH, VTO 3~0 e~HHCTBeHHbIfi C~OCO~. Y Hac  ewb qenb. C YI'& qeJIbIo Bce COrJIaCHbI - OrpaHE¶mb o6mee ¶IICJIO IIpoeKToB pe3onIooqEii E  IIOIIpaBOK. c 3TEM BCe COrJIaCHbI, HO cnoco6bI AOCTlDKeHEII 3TOfi I(eJIE MOIJ'T 6bn-b pa3JIH¶HbI.  Ecnn C~OCO~ TOJIbKO OAHH, TOrEa He HY>KHO HHKaKOrO ECCJIe~OBaHEH, TOrna BCe RCHO. Ho R  y6exAeH, =ITO STHX cnoco6oB KaK MEHEMyM HeCKOJIbKO, UTO MM E y3HaeM E3 ECCJIe/JOBaHESI,  KoTopoe 110npocnM cAenan reHepanbHor0 AqeKmpa. Bnaronapm.
(35) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr Fresident. We are speaking about possible ways of limiting the number of draft  resolutions submitted by Member States. We are not required to submit one single answer to the Director-General  at once, one single way of limiting the total number of amendments and resolutions. It is possible that the only  way to limit them is to establish a quota for each Member State. 1 am not certain that this is the only way. We  have an aim with which we are a11 in agreement, viz, to limit the total number of draft resolutions and  amendments. We are a11 in agreement with the aim, but there may be more than one way of achieving it. If there
657    is only one way, then no study is necessary, everything is obvious. However, 1 am sure that there are several such  ways at least, as we shall indeed find out from the study which we are asking the Director-General to carry out.  Thank you.
36.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Fedotov. Now it is very clear, at least to me, what your suggestion  is: we refer to ‘a study of possible ways of limiting the number of draft resolutions . ..‘. Very good. If there are no  other remarks, 1 Will take it that the Russian amendment is approved. It is SO decided. 1 see no further requests  to speak on this item.
37.  The delegate of Benin has asked for the floor, 1 take it on another point.  M. TIDJANI-SERPOS (Bénin) :  Monsieur le Président, mon intervention porte sur le titre II.C, c’est-à-dire le Programme de  participation où il est dit : “demande au Directeur géneral de faire procéder par une instance extérieure à un  examen du Programme de participation, etc.,“. Monsieur le President, vous savez très bien que les fonds du  Programme de participation ne nous suffisent déjà pas et voilà qu’il faudrait encore prelever de quoi financer un  evaluateur extérieur qui nous ferait des observations sur ce programme. C’est pourquoi, Monsieur le Président,  le Bénin juge préferable que la Conférence genérale “demande au Directeur genéral de proposer des voies et  moyens d’améliorer l’efficacité, l’efficience, la transparence et la rapidité, etc.,“. Nous pensons que nous devons  nous abstenir de faire appel à une instance exterieure devoreuse des maigres ressources allouées au Programme  de participation. Mieux vaudrait en effet charger le Directeur général de suggérer, à la 149e session du Conseil  exécutif, les méthodes à utiliser pour que les secteurs réagissent très rapidement quand ils reçoivent des  requêtes. En particulier, ces requêtes, après qu’elles ont été renvoyées à l’unité du Programme de participation,  doivent-elles nécessairement être soumises au Directeur géneral ? Il y a des problèmes précis qui créent la  lenteur et, pour les resoudre, nous n’avons pas besoin d’un evaluateur externe que nous allons payer cher et qui  viendra nous dire ce que nous savons dejà. Monsieur le Président, je demande donc que la mention de l’instance  extérieure soit supprimée. Je vous remercie.
38. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Would you please help me, and probably most of the delegates, by stating what you are  referring to? May 1 remind a11 delegates mat when you refer to something very specific, it would be extremely  helpful if you could identify the paragraph number and possibly the number of the page. 1 give the floor to  Palestine.  :(&A) &” +JI Y9  +Ad .I+ jik;4 p-5 4;i djs ++ u9L ~IL119 Lo & 1-0141” gi (&ji ~S^U, ip  . .  uu+j -qq.lt yil * CjgLüll cjcL& zG$l &a \y\ aq iyîq-m +Lgl p+d ‘&l  & i+bg i;l “@i ut++ “2312 p- s piti “é;l*Ji +u +i .+-si9 bjf+~+g  ‘ ‘  *y+d Ylq ai3 (jl &lg .hji “=y ‘ &J j ut ;i;ü%l L&is cp@l +dlj bÏ- 2 JlyJl  “+Jl qt j .A+ -LduJt -Lcy+d  iJp dj G Lui  j di LL;Ji ++di : ++.u”&+wi 0lrgerdl~  + Jsc; i>o ë_ji)bri “4”al;l’g “LA “W~J ++I & 3ii; (ji WI  kJ~~y-+-qj Y 3 ai ZL.G *&LA& ‘~7 $4~ >i+!i tj+ 4 401bUi PL* (9bJ)r  Ut+ pu Gi (CG ld c&d j G wi dj .@I mp jur 4;ij -bl; tbwl ”  .(y&$ &+l d& .“&bg t+J uty& &l QaLtl .pL,! &
(3% Mr YAKHLEF (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 fully commend what the delegate of Benin has said and see it as being  extremely logical. The other matter, Mr President, relates to paragraph 13109 of the document, concerning co-  operation with National Commissions and with UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations. 1 would again raise  the matter of organizing three regional conferences of National Commissions in, respectively, Asia and the  Pacifie, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe. 1 see that two of UNESCO’s regional groups have been  omitted: Group V(a) and Group V(b). During the previous biennium, we were able to convene such conferences  for the Arab States and Africa regions through the Participation Programme and 1 therefore see no reason to  burden the Participation Programme in draft resolution 28 Ci361 with an extra US $500,000 from the  Participation Programme for these activities, particularly as it excludes two regional groups. We have been able
19  in the past, as 1 said, to use funds from the Participation Programme for meetings of our National Commissions.  Thank you, Mr President.
40. The PRESIDENT:  The distinguished representative of Palestine, when you refer to these regional conferences in three  parts of the world and then mention other parts, to what exactly are you referring? Would you be SO kind as to  refer to the paragraph in document 28 C/144?
(41) Mr YAKHLEF (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabie):  The paragraph number is 13 109.
42. The PRESIDENT:  But then, 1 have to ask the Chairperson of Commission 1 whether you dealt with this question at all in  the Commission because, if not, 1 have some difficulty in taking it up now. You have the floor, Sir.
43. Mr TAWFIK (Egypt), Chairperson of Commission 1:
1 do not have the numbers here, but other meetings could be added for the African or Arab countries.
44.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. What we have to do is to see how, in a meaningful way, this could be related to the  document in front of us, to our business this afternoon. SO - and 1 beg the indulgence of the representative of  Palestine - we Will have to hold this in abeyance for a moment.
44.2 Are there any other reactions to the suggestion by Benin that the review of the Participation  Programme should not be external but could be carried out by the Director-General - in other words, that it  should be an interna1 review? Have 1 correctly understood, Mr Tidjani? Thank you. Are there any other  comments on that? The delegate of Germany has the floor.
45.1 Mr SCHGFIHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 think that we should recall that during the debate in Commission 1, there  was considerable discussion of the French language version, and 1 think we agreed that the French should read:  ‘demander à une instance externe’, in line with the English and other language versions. We were assured by  the representative of the Director-General that this applied only to the method, and not to the financing of the  review. Perhaps, the Chairperson of Commission 1 or Mr Lopes could refresh ouf memories on this; 1 do not  think we should reopen the debate.
45.2 Concerning the request by Palestine, 1 would simply refer to paragraph 40 of the report, where we  might find the issue targeted by the Observer of Palestine. Thank you.
46. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Now, as 1 understand it, the delegates of Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Australia,  France and Gambia have asked to address the suggestion by Benin. The delegate of Togo has the floor.
47. M. AGBOBLI (Togo) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. A la suite de l’intervention du delégué de l’Allemagne, nous aimerions  savoir quelle décision a exactement été prise. Si le Directeur général doit faire procéder a l’examen envisagé en  faisant appel à des experts étrangers dont les services ne seront pas financés par les fonds alloués au  Programme, nous serons peut-être d’accord avec cette proposition. Sinon, la délégation togolaise se ralliera à  l’avis du délégué du Bénin et souhaitera que l’on n’engage pas de dépenses supplementaires, compte tenu des  besoins à pourvoir à l’aide du Programme de participation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le President.
48. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Before 1 give the floor to the other delegations which have asked for it, 1 Will  cal1 on the Chairperson of Commission 1, who may perhaps clarify the matter and help us to save time.
52. The PRESIDENT:  While there is no doubt that the plenary is the supreme body, the basic purpose of the Commission is  to streamline the decision-making process in the plenary and to enable the experts and the speciahsts in all the  national delegations to participate in the work of the different commissions, on the different subjects and items,  but obviously the final decision is made in the plenary. You are therefore right, Mr Ambassador, although 1 did  not interpret Mr Tawfïk’s remarks as an attempt to deprive us of decision-making here. He simply reminded us  that there was a consensus in Commission 1 and appealed to the delegates not to upset that consensus. However,  you are obviously free to take the floor. On the other hand, 1 do not think that this issue is very complicated.  The question is simply whether this review should be extemal or intemal. 1 now have a list comprising:  Tunisia, Turkey, Australia, France and Gambia, and 1 imagine that after five interventions this issue Will be  fully illuminated and we Will be able to take a decision, but 1 see Turkey does not want to speak after all.  Tunisia, you have the floor.
(53.1) Mr CHEMLI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 would not have asked for the floor if my friend, Ambassador Tidjani-Serpos,  the delegate of Benin, had not raised this issue, which is: what is the precise role of the plenary meeting? If our  role is to give our full agreement, then it would be better if we a11 went home because we are under pressure at  UNESCO, on the Executive Board, in the Commissions and here owing to a lack of time and the need to be  expedient. We represent sovereign States here and have the right to speak. We are members of officia1  delegations. If that were to prevent us from speaking, then 1 should withdraw immediately, that is, my country  would withdraw right now. However, 1 do not think that UNESCO is like this. On the contrary, it allows for  discussion even in plenary meetings.
(53.2) Having said this, which 1 stress, as 1 have had numerous occasions to stress in the Executive Board, 1  should like to say that 1 agree with the delegate of Benin, Mr Tidjani-Serpos, that an external review of the  Participation Programme would not be useful. It would be a waste of time, of UNESCO’s money and of what  needs to be used for other things and other projects. Furthermore, 1 should like to insist on the part of the report of  Commission 1 that says that any project within the Participation Programme must go through the National  Commissions, and that UNESCO is required to implement this. How many times have such projects gone ahead  of which we in Tunisia, for instance, have been unaware, and which have thus been imposed upon us. Thank you.
54. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 would just like to emphasize that 1 am certainly of the opinion that this is the  supreme body; 1 have said that time and time again, SO please be assured you Will be given the floor when you  want it. 1 Will not in any way try to imply that this body is a rubber stamp. 1 Will give the floor to Australia to be  followed by France.
55.1 Mr BROWN (Australia):  Thank you, Mr President. We are very sensitive to Mr Tawfik’s comments, and we Will be quite happy  to go along with the consensus that was arrived at in Commission 1, but as the debate has been opened, 1 have  to comment very briefly, that we see some merit in an extemal review. We are sure that the Director-General
661    has nothing to hide here and we think that Member States would very much appreciate a fresh look at the  programme and the problems it is facing SO that we cari take the measures to assist the Director-General to  improve it.
55.2 The question of costs is a real one, and 1 wonder whether we could not avoid that problem by, instead  of calling on the Director-General, inviting the External Auditor to review the programme, and he would then  meet the cost associated with it. But this is just an ides and, to corne back to my original point, we would be  quite happy to go along with the consensus that Mr Tawfik engineered in Commission 1. Thank you.
56. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The final speaker on this point is Gambia. Mr Thomas, you have the floor.
57. Mr THOMAS (Gambia):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 shall be brief. It is true that we are not here to rubber stamp. But there is  also a two-pronged convention that has been established here: at the Commission level and at the plenary level.  At the Commission level, provision has been made for every State to send a representative. It is there that  things are discussed thoroughly and 1 would expect, as the President has said, while everyone could not agree  on everything, recommendations or decisions that reach us here are arrived at either by consensus or vote and  become the property of the Commission. It is true that sometimes we do not entirely agree with what has gone  on but we could not really re-open here a debate on everything - and this is a point of substance, and not one of  accuracy of the records. 1 therefore appeal to those who insist that we go on with this debate to accept the fact  this was arrived at by consensus. As Australia has said, there are those who think there should be an Extemal  Auditor, while others feel it could be done within the Organization. Please let us just accept the consensus  spelled out in the decision before us and move ahead. Thank you.
58. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And in that very spirit, 1 would like to ask the plenary whether, after a11 these remarks, it  is ready to accept the proposal put forward by France. France has the floor.
59. M. POUSSIN (France) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le President. Je voudrais dire d’abord combien nous sommes  reconnaissants au Président de la Commission 1 qui nous a aidés a résoudre des quantites de problèmes et de  difficultés pendant toute la duree des travaux de cette Commission. Nous ne siegeons ici en effet, nullement en  tant que chambre d’enregistrement. Nous devons entériner des accords qui ont pu être trouvés et aussi parfaire  les consensus qui n’ont peut-être pas été tout à fait dégages. J’observe qu’il y a quelques minutes nous sommes  arrives à lever trois reserves sur un point important et à faire disparaître une opposition sur un autre point, ce  qui prouve que l’assemblée plénière a un rôle utile à jouer. Dans cet esprit, je crois que certains, parmi nous,  éprouvaient encore quelques doutes sur la notion d’examen externe. Nous n’avions pu, pour des raisons de  délais, consulter la Commission administrative, savoir quel serait le coût réel d’un tel examen et nous étions  parvenus à ce que j’appellerai un consensus mou, c’est-a-dire un consensus sans enthousiasme. J’avoue que les  propos de M. Tidjani me semblent particulièrement pertinents et qu’il suffirait de supprimer le terme  “extérieure” pour laisser au Directeur général le soin de procéder selon les modalités les meilleures, et  probablement aussi les moins coûteuses, à cette étude que nous demandons. J’appuie donc, pour ces raisons qui  ont, je crois, éte suffisamment justifiées et argumentées, la proposition faite par M. l’ambassadeur du Benin. Je  vous remercie.
60. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Since this is a very concrete proposal, it is my duty to ask the plenary whether it Will go  along with the deletion of the word ‘extemal’ SO that paragraph 34, on page 19, of the English version would  read: ‘Calls on the Director-General to establish a review of the Participation Programme to address issues of  the effectiveness . ..‘. 1s there a consensus on that? Are there any objections? Australia, you have the floor.
61. Mr BROWN (Australia):  Mr President, we prefer the consensus text as agreed in Commission 1. 1 do not wish to enter into  further argument about it; but you asked if there is objection to deleting the word ‘extemal’ and the answer is  ‘yes!‘.
62.1 The PRESIDENT:  Then 1 have to take it the other way around: there is a text in front of you which is the result of a  consensus in Commission 1; there is a suggestion to delete the word ‘external’ from that text; we have to decide.
19  We cannot spend the rest of the day on this. We shall have to vote on whether the word ‘extemal’ is to be  deleted or not. Would those of you who would like to have the word ‘extemal’ deleted from the text please raise  your name-plates. Thank you.
62.2 Those who wish to maintain the recommendation from Commission 1, please raise your name-plates.  Thank you.
62.3 In such a case there is no reason to ask for abstentions. Forty-three delegations voted in favour of  deleting the word ‘external’; 36 voted in favour of maintaining it. SO the word ‘external’ is deleted t
62.4 Are there any other remarks or observations concerning the Draft Report of Commission 1 and the  draft resolutions contained in that report? The delegate of Turkey is asking for the floor.
63. M. TACAR (Turquie) :  Monsieur le Président, j’ai une observation à formuler concernant le texte du rapport, observation que  j’avais déjà faite à la Commission 1. Je me retire au paragraphe 29 : la décision “de clarifier et de simplifier” et  “de simplifier et d’harmoniser” faisant l’objet des paragraphes 1 et 3 du dispositif est en fait un amendement en  bonne et due forme au Règlement intérieur de la Conference générale, comme cela est indiqué au début de  I’Annexe A figurant dans le rapport. En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 8, sous la lettre (xxxix) du paragraphe 1  du dispositif, il conviendrait d’ajouter, après “poète et écrivain turc Hasan Ali Yücel”, comme nous l’avons  demandé au Secrétariat, “, ancien ministre de l’éducation”. M. Hasan Ali Yücel émit un poète et un écrivain  mais il a aussi été un ministre de l’éducation qui a beaucoup compté dans la vie de la Turquie. Sous la  lettre (xli) du même paragraphe, la date devrait être 1996 au lieu de 1997. Je vous remercie.
64. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Italy has asked for the floor. No? Then are there any other comments or  suggestions? Ghana has the floor.
65. M. NORDOR (Ghana) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement faire une remarque au sujet dune terminologie  que j’entends ici et qui m’effraie fort. On nous parle de consensus, dont l’emergence est assimilée à une  manifestation de la vérité. Je suis très heureux que le représentant de la France ait fait savoir que le consensus  qui s’était dégagé au sein de la Commission était plutôt mou. Nous devons faire attention, si nous tenons à nos  principes démocratiques. L’erreur peut être consensuelle, elle peut être collective. Nous aspirons sans doute tous  à l’unanimité. Mais nous savons où cela nous conduit, à des comportements monolithiques et les  comportements monolithiques ont les suites que nous connaissons. Donc, de grâce, que l’on ne nous dise pas  que, parce qu’il y a consensus, nous devons l’avaliser. Exerçons plutôt notre souveraineté en sachant que, s’il  existe un consensus, mou ou pas, au niveau de la Commission, celui-ci peut être erroné ; l’erreur peut être  plurielle. C’est tout ce que je souhaitais dire. Je vous remercie.
66. The PRESIDENT:  Obviously, your point is well taken; if that was not the case there would be no sense in us conducting a  meeting like this. Any other comments? If not, 1 take it that the report of Commission 1 and the draft  resolutions contained therein, with the approved amendments, cari be adopted. It is adonted. 1 would like to  thank you once more, Mr Tawlik, for a11 your work. Do you have another comment, Mr Tawfik?
(67) Mr TAWFIK (Egypt), Chairperson of Commission 1 (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you, Mr F’resident. Indeed, 1 should like to express my gratitude to a11 the members of the  Commission and a11 those taking part in this plenary meeting for a11 their comments. It did not for one moment  occur to me that 1 was being understood as wanting to prevent discussion or trying to stop them from speaking.  Al1 those who worked with us in Commission 1 or on the drafting team for the Medium-Term Strategy know to  what lengths we went to ensure a democratic approach and how on occasion we continued our discussions until  the early hours of the morning without losing sight of the democratic process. This is our method and 1 am very  pleased with a11 the comrnents. We are all, of course, in favour of democracy and debate and it is this that has  brought our endeavours to a successful conclusion. Thank you, Mr President, for your wise steering of this  meeting, and thanks to a11 my colleagues.
68. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Tawfik. We have now completed adoption of the Report of Commission 1.  APPLICATION DE LA RESOLUTION 27 C/21 CONCERNANT L’APPEL EN FAVEUR  DE L’OCTROI D’UN APPUI A HAITI  IMPLEMENTATION OF RESOLUTION 27 C/21 CONCERNING TI-IE APPEAL  FOR SUPPORT TO HAITI  APLICACION DE LA RESOLUCION 27 C/21 RELATIVA AL LLAMAMIENTO EN FAVOR  DE UN APOYO A I-IAITI  BbIIIOJIHEHHE PE30JIIOHMH 27 C/21 OTHOCHTEJIbHO IIPM3bIBA  OB OKA3AHHM IIOMOIQI FAHTM
69.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now Will consider, under item 5.5, implementation of 27 C/Resolution 21, conceming the appeal  for support to Haiti. The draft resolution before you is 28 C/PLEN/DR. 11. This draft resolution is submitted by
23 countries and supported by one. As Commission 1 has made no specific recommendations conceming  item 5.5, 1 suggest that we now adopt this resolution. If 1 see no objections, this resolution is adopted.
69.2 Thank you very much. 1 now give the floor to Bis Excellency Mr Etzer Charles, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Baiti.
70. M. ETZER (Haïti) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais tout d’abord, au nom de mon gouvernement et de  ma délégation, remercier la Conference, ou autrement dit l’ensemble des délégues, d’avoir bien voulu adopter ce  projet de resolution. J’adresse des remerciements tout particuliers aux differentes delégations qui sont associées  a la presentation dudit projet. En agissant ainsi, la Conférence se montre conséquente avec ses principes, c’est-  à-dire fidèle à ses engagements. En effet, à sa vingt-septième session, elle avait adopte un appel en faveur de  l’octroi d’un appui a Haïti, un appui à la démocratie et au processus de developpement dans les domaines de  competence de l’UNESCO, Depuis, la démocratie a été retablie en Haïti et l’action de l’Organisation a eté  pleinement reprise dans le sens de cet appel. Un bureau de l’UNESCO fonctionne de nouveau a Port-au-Prince  et un mémorandum de coopération entre l’Organisation et le gouvernement haïtien a ete signe le 19 janvier
1995 par le President, M. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, et le Directeur genéral, M. Federico Mayor. Nombreux sont  les projets qui ont demarre avec le concours ou sous les auspices directs de l’UNESCO. Ainsi, l’USAID, la  Mission française de cooperation, le PNUD, l’UNICEF, 1’OMS et certaines ONG locales ont eu l’occasion et  continuent encore de collaborer avec l’Organisation. Cependant, enormement d’initiatives restent encore a  mettre en oeuvre pour l’application pleine et entière des orientations definies dans la résolution 27 C/21. Aussi  est-il normal et logique qu’aujourd’hui, à sa vingt-huitième session, la Conférence générale renouvelle son  appel en faveur de l’octroi d’un appui à Haïti. Face à tout ce qui est déjà accompli, un hommage particulier est à  rendre à l’UNESCO et, à travers elle, à son Directeur genéral, M. Federico Mayor. Cependant, la tâche est  tellement lourde que l’UNESCO seule ne peut parvenir à l’accomplir. C’est pourquoi la résolution fait appel  également aux organisations intergouvernementales et non gouvernementales pour qu’elles continuent à  renforcer l’action de l’UNESCO. Ainsi, avec le concours de ses partenaires, celle-ci pourra redoubler d’efforts et  concrétiser pleinement l’appel dont il est question ici. Je demanderai donc aux Etats membres de continuer  d’accorder leur soutien au gouvernement et au peuple haïtiens en contribuant davantage aux efforts de  l’UNESCO en Haïti. Au bout du chemin, ils seront fiers de l’oeuvre réalisée car ils auront aidé un peuple qui a  beaucoup souffert pour se construire un monde meilleur où les idéaux de l’UNESCO seront devenus bien  concrets. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
71. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RESOLUTIONS ET  RECOMMANDATIONS (suite)  REPORT OF TIIE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS (continue@  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y  RECOMENDACIONES (continuacmn)  ,QOKJIAA KOMMCCEIEI II0 A,lIMEIHMCIPATMBHbIM BOIIPOCAM:  PE30JIIOIIklpI I?I PEKOMEQlIAIBQI (HpoAoH>KeHHe)  (($2) cï(l&iIlJ dJlJal : z&YI &@ &s  ~7@3%E&t#~~: &iXjFnBW ( S!E >
72.1 The PRESIDENT:  With that we move to the next item; this is approval of the report of the Administrative Commission.  Now, for this Commission only, which, of course, is not a Programme Commission, but a Commission  entrusted with a vast number of financial and administrative tasks, 1 have decided, together with its  Chairperson, that we have to use the original procedure, because there are simply SO many different issues put  before us that we Will have to take things item by item. Mr Joukov and 1 have agreed on this and if there are no  objections, we Will follow that procedure. But this Will be an isolated case as regards the processing of the  Commission reports. It is solely in order to be practical.
72.2 If you agree on this, 1 would just remind you again that minor changes do not have to be read out in  the plenary; they cari be given to the Secretariat. For instance, if there is a figure wrong simply because of a  misprint, there is no need to read it out here.
72.3 1 now draw your attention to document 28 C/143, which contains the recommendations of the  Commission. You Will need to have that document in front of you in order to follow Mr Joukov’s introduction. 1  Will now give him the floor to introduce the various items covered by the report.
73.1 r--~ XYKOB (PoccHiicKaH @e~epaqHH, IIpeAceflaTenb KOMHCCIIH no a~MHHHcrpa’rHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  Bnaronapro Bac, T-H IIpeAcenaTeJrb. C 6OJIbIIIHM y~OBOJIbCTBHeM H y~oHJreTBopeHHeM H  IIpe~cTaBJIHKl reHepaJIbHofi KOHgJepeHqHE - E KaK II, r-H npeACenaTeJIb, FICKpeHHe HaJJeIOCb,  nocxe~mk pa3 - noK.nan 0 AWTeJIbHOCTE KOMIICCHH II0 aJJMHHECTpaTEBHbIM BOIIpOCaM. npH  COCTaBJIeHHH 3TOrO AOKJIa&Rl nepen MHOÈI crosura flaneMMa - noflroToBETb KpaTKoe H owpoe  BbIcTyIIJIeHHe EJIE 6onee nomoe, 6onee BcecTopoHHee coo6IqeHHe o pa6oTe KOMHCCHH. Ez XOTSI  MeHII MOryT o6BEHmb B TOM, PT0 R y~eJISII0 CJIHIIIKOM MHOrO BHEMaHEII AeTZLlISIM, II BCe-TaKH  pemEJI OCTaHOBETbCH Ha IIOCJIeJ(HeM BapEaHTe, TeM CaMbIM B03JJaB AOJDKHOe BbICOKOMy KaqeCTBy  E 6onbruofi rny6HHe o6cyqeHE& Kowpoe 6bIno npoBeneHo B KOMHCCIIE.
25 OKTII~PII 3Toro roAa, KOMECCHeti 6bIno paccMoTpeHo 28 II~HKTOB, a Tame npE.noxeHHe K  npOeKTy npOI’paMMb1 E 6romeTa Ha 1996-1997 rr. nepeAaBHbIe HaM BonpocbI KacanHcb  nPOIpaMMb1 E 6roJpHeTa, MeTOAOB pa6oTbI OpraHH3aqEE, @EHâHCOBbIX BOIIpOCOB, BOIIpOCOB  IIepCOHaJIa E BOIIpOCOB mTa6-KBapTapbI. 06CymeHEH) E IIpEHSI'HIO peKOMeHJJaI(Eii 6bIno  IIOCBHIL(eHO 10 3aceAaHHH H ORHO 3aceAaHHe - paccMoTpeHHH) IS II~EHIITHIO ~oK.na~a. MHe 6bI  xoTenocb COOPTES, r-H lIpenceAaTeJrb, 9~0 KOMHCCHR pa6omna, KaK 06bInH0, B Ryxe  KOMIIpOMECCa, B3aEMOyBaXZeHES.I E IIOHHMaHHII, m-0 ~O~BOJIHJIO ekr IIPEHIIT~ Bce IIpoeKTbI  pe3onmoqd, Haxonaqïecx B AOKyMeHTe c/143, IIyTeM KOHCeHCyCa. mR BCeX HaIIIEX 3aCeAaHEii
6bIna xapaKrepHa TpaHcnapeHrHocrb, H CeKpeTapHaT B nonaoii Mepe COT~Y~HESU c  KOMIICCEeti. KpoMe TOrO, r-H npeJ(CeJ(aTeJIb, II0 CpaBHeHEKl C IIpeflbIAymME CeCCHRMH  rocyAapcTBa--WIeHbI IIPOHBEJIE Ha ~TOT pas ropa3Ao 6onbIIIIG EHTepec K pa6oTe KOMEICCEE, wo  BeCbMa IIOJIO>KHTeJIbHO CKa3aJIOCb Ha pe3yJIbTaTaX ee AeRTeJIbHOCTE.
6IqvKeTBbIX CpeACTB paCXOAOBaJIC5I Ha IIporpaMMy. KaK 6bIno pemeH0 Ha IIxeHapHoM 3aceAaHHH  H B COOTBeTCTBEE C JIpOI&eAypOfi, KOTOpOfi MbI CJIeAOBaJIE Ha npeprecmymqel ceccm  reHepaJIbHOfi KOH+epeHqEE, B AOKJIaA KOMHCCEE BKJIIOLIeHbI MJIbKO Te peIIIeHEH, KOTOpbIe  peKoMeHAyeTw IIpEH5ITb reHepaJrbHOfï KOH@epeHqEir. B HeM TaKJKC HâIIIJIE OTpaJKeHEe  OrOBOpKE, BbIpmeHHbIe AeJIeraqESIME. KaK BaM H3BeCTH0, II YXKe IIpeACTaBEJI IIJIeHapHOMy
3aCeJJaHEIo AOKJIaA II0 IIyHKTy 4.3 - YTBepmeHEe IIpeABapETWIbHOrO BepXHerO IIpeAeJIbHOrO  ypo~H51 6IojqXeTa Ha 1996-1997 rr., E 1103~cn.q II He 6y~y B AaxbHeiirueM CcbInaTbcH Ha 3~0~  IIyHKT IIOBeCTKE AHH. r-H npeAceAaTenb, xxocne STHX 061qnx saMenaHE8 II roToB nepeih K  IIepBOMy IIyHKTy IIOBCCTKE AHR, C Bamero IIOJBOJIeHEH. &IarOAapIO Bac.
(73.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. It is with great pleasure and satisfaction that 1 submit to the General  Conference - and as 1 earnestly hope, Mr F’resident, for the last time - the report on the work of the Administrative  Commission. In preparing this report, 1 was on the horns of a dilemma: whether to prepare a short, Sharp  statement or a fuller, more comprehensive report on the work of the Commission. And although 1 may be accused  of paying too much attention to details, 1 have decided to choose the latter alternative in order to do justice to the  high standard and considerable depth of the discussion which took place in the Commission.
(73.2) In accordance with the agenda approved by the General Conference on 25 October 1995, the  Commission considered 28 items and the appendices to the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. The  questions referred to us concerned the programme and budget, the methods of work of the Organization, financial  questions, staff questions and Headquarters questions. Ten meetings were devoted to the discussion and adoption  of recommendations and one meeting to the consideration and adoption of the report. 1 should like to state,  Mr President, that the Commission worked, as usual, in a spirit of compromise, mutual respect and  understanding, which enabled it to adopt by consensus a11 the draft resolutions contained in document 28 C/143.  A feature of a11 our meetings was their openness; the Secretariat co-operated fully with the Commission. In  addition, Mr President, in comparison with previous sessions, the Member States showed on this occasion  considerably more interest in the work of the Commission; and this had an extremely positive influence on the  results of its work.
(73.3) 1 should like to mention, Mr President, that the spirit of co-operation, which has characterized our work,  was also evinced by the fact that several delegates actively assisted the Chairperson in the preparation of his oral  report to the plenary. In my report, which you are about to hear, the wishes and points of view of the delegates  concerned are expressed to the greatest extent possible. This 1 should like to emphasize particularly. 1 should also  like to emphasize another point. The predominant factor in our discussions was the effort, not to slash  expenditure but to make rational use of budgetary provisions. Here, the delegations of a11 regional groups showed  particular concern that the major part of the budgetary provision should be spent on the programme. As decided in  the plenary and in accordance with the procedure which we followed at the previous session of the General  Conference, only those resolutions are included in the Commission’s report which are recommended to the  General Conference for adoption. Reservations expressed by delegates are also reflected in the report. As you  know, 1 have already presented to the plenary a report on item 4.3: Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for
1996-1997, and 1 shall thus not be referring to this item of tbe agenda hereafter. 1 am now ready, Mr President,  after these general remarks, to proceed, with your permission, to the first item on the agenda.
74. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. Would you now kindly move to the first item examined by the  Administrative Commission - item 4.2.  Item 4.2 - Methods of DreDaring the budget and estimates for 1996-1997 and budgeting techniaues
75.1 r-H XYKOB (POCCEiiCKaH @eAepaqEx, npeACeAaTenb KOMHCCEE r10 a~MHHHCTpaTEBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  KOMHCCHH nonseprna AeTaJIbHOMy PaCCMOTpeHEIo MeTOAEKy, ECIIOJIb30BaHHyIO  reHepaJIbHbIM AHpeKTOpOM AJIH IIoAroTOBKE 6IomeTa E 6H)AxeTHbIX CMeT Ha 1996-1997 rr., a  TaK>Ke IIpHMeI-IRBIIIEeCZS C 3TOfI qeJIbfO MeTOAbI COCTaBJIeHHII 6qqKeTa. XOTH KOMHCCHR E  BbIpa3EJIa CBOe yAoB.neTBopeHne B CBR3E C TeM, ¶TO, KaK IIpE IIOArOTOBKe AOKyMeHTa 28U5,  TaK H IIpE er0 IIOCJIe~IOIIJeM IIepeCMOTpe, FeHepaJIbHbIM AEpeKn>pOM HCIIOJIb30BânECb MeTORbI  COCTaBJIeHER 6IomeTa, yTBep>I<AeHHbIe &Be'IOM Ha 146-c CeCCEE, TeM He MeHee, 6bInm  IIOAH5ITbI BOIIpOCbI, KacaKqHeca IIOJIETHKE pea.nbHoro HyneBoro poc'ra, o6MeHHoro Kypca,
19  BbI6paHHOrO AJIII IIOArOTOBKE AOKyMeHTa 28 C/5, a TaKlKe BJIExHEe BCerO 3TOrO Ha B3HOCbI  rocy~apcTB-wIeHoB.
75.2 npeACTaBETt?JIb reHepaJIbHOr0 AEpeKTopa EH@OpMEpOBaJI ¶JIeHOB KOMECCEE, ¶TO 3TOT  MeTOA 6bIn pa3pa60TaH C qeJIbB3 AaTb B03MOWHOCTb CpaBHHTb 6IoAxeT TeKymero AByxneTHero  IIepEoAa c 6qqxcemM npeAruecTByIoI.qero @HHaHCOBOrO IIepEoAa. 06MeHHbIfï KypC,  COCTaBJISIIOII@i 5,70 +p.@p. 31 1 AOJIJI. CHIA, XOTR OH H He COBIIaAaeT C HbIHe AeiiCTByIOIQ'ïM
06MeHHbIM KypCOM, O¶eHb 6JIE3oK K TOMy, ¶To MorJIO 6bI 6brrb Ha3BaHO ECTOpEPeCKE  CJIOxHBWEMCx ypOBHeM 06MeHHoro Kypca  AOJIJIapOM. YKa3aHHbIti  MeJKAy +paHqy3CKHM +paHKOM E aMepEKaHCKEM  KYPc 6bIn 0IIpeAeneH II0 HTOraM KOHCyJIbTaqEii C PJIeHaME  ~CIIOJIHH'IWIbHOrO COBeTa E HMeJIOCb B BEAy ECIIOJIb30BaTb er0, eCJIH OH COXpaHET CBOe
3HaPeHEe, IIpHMeHETWIbHO KO BCeMy CJIeAyIoII(eMy  YsETbIBaSI,  IIepEOAy CpeAHeCpOsHOrO IIJIaHEpOBaHEH.  ¶To B3HOCbI rocyAapcTB-uneBoB pacc¶ETbIBaIoTC~ c Y¶eTOM KOM6EHEpOBaHHOfi  CFïCTeMbI BbIlIJIaTbI BJHOCOB, a OCHOBHâR 9aCTb paCXOAOB OpraHE3alJEE  $‘PaWY3CK~ (PP  IIpOEISBOAETCH BO  aHKaX, 3TOT HOBbIii IIOCTOIIHHbIfi 06MeHHbIti KypC AOJIJIapa He OKaJKeT BJIHIIHEII  Ha pa3MepbI BSHOCOB rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB, TaK KaK paCXOAb1 BO f$paHqySCKEX @paHKaX OCTaIOTUI  TeME >Ke CaMbIME. 6bIJIO peIIIeH0, 'ITO EH+OpMaIJHR, +EI'ypHpyIOIqa5i B AOKyMeHTe 28 C/5 B  OTHoIIIeHHH KOJIe6aHHII BaJIKYrHbIX KYPCOB,  AOKyMeHTaX C/5.  AonmHa HaiiTB 6onee 3aMeTEIoe MeCTo B 6y~y11pzx
75.3 B xoAe 06CyxAeHHx HeCKOJIbKEME AeJIeraTaMH 6bIna IIOA¶epKHyTa HeO6XOAHMOCTb  AEHaME¶HOii pa3pa6oTKn MeTOAOB COCTaBJIeHEB 6mA>KeTa, c TeM mo6bI, II0 BOSMOlKHOCTE,  Y¶ETbIBaTb J(pyrFIe 3JIeMeHTb1, TaKEe, KaK IIpeAeJIbHbIii ypOBeHb 6mweTa, COoTHOIIIeHEe Me>KAy  pacxoAaMFï Ha nepcoHaJI Fi paCXOAaME Ha HpOIJXiMMy, 3a,I(a¶H CTpaTWE¶eCKOrO IIJIaHHpOBaHHSI,  OIIpeAeJIeHER IIpEOpETeTOB E yIIpaBJIeHHH XOAOM OCy~eCTBJIeHE5I IIpOI'paMMbI, a TaKJKe  MaKCIlMaJIbHOrO a6cop6HpoBaHm pOCTa paCXOAOB, IIpEHHMaR BO BHEMaHEe IïX @aKTE¶eCKyIO  wpy~Typy. ApyrEe AeneraTbI, BbIpalKa5I CBOe COrJIaCEe C IIpHHIITbIME MeTOAaME COCTaBJIeHEII
6mmeTa, OTMeTHJIE, VT0 3TH MeTORbI HeO6XOAEMO IIOCTOHHHO H3y¶aTb, E yKaJa.nH, ¶To EX He  CJIeAyeT IIyTaTb c IIJIaHEpOBaHEeM, OqeHKOfi EJIH MeTOAaMPï ynpaaneHHH. OAEH WIeH KOMIICCEE  peIIIETeJIbH0 BbICKa3aJICII B IIOJIb3y TOrO, wo6bI 3apeJepBEpOBaTb OnpeAeJIeHHyIo PaCTb
6IoAXeTa H o6pasosaTb Ha 3TOii OCHOBe @OHA Ha HeIIpeABEAeHHbIe CJIy¶aE, C Tt2M ¶To6bI  MO>KHO 6bmo KOMIIeHCEpOBaTb HeXBaTKy IIOCTyIIaIOrrJHX BJHOCOB. r-H npeACeAaTfZJIb, IIpOeKT  penIeaYrs HO 3TOMy IIyHKTy IIOBeCTKH AHSI HaXOAETC5I B IIapaI'pa@e 3 AOKyMeHTa C/143.  IjnaroAapm Bac.
(75.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  The Commission examined in detail the methods used by the Director-General for preparing the budget  and budget estimates for 1996-1997 and the budgeting techniques employed for this purpose. While the  Commission expressed its satisfaction that the Director-General, both in preparing document 28 C/5 and in his  subsequent revision, had applied the budgeting techniques approved by the Board at its 146th session, questions  were nevertheless raised regarding the zero real growth policy, the currency exchange rate chosen for the  preparation of document 28 C15 and the effect which this would a11 have on the contributions of Member States.
(75.2) The representative of the Director-General informed the members of the Commission that this method  had been developed to enable a comparison to be made between the budget of the current biennium and that of  the previous financial period. The exchange rate of FF 5.70 to US $1 was admittedly out of line with the current  rate, but it was very close to what could be called the historically established level of exchange between the  French franc and the United States dollar. The rate indicated had been laid down as a result of consultations with  Members of the Executive Board and it was intended that, if it continued to be of relevance, it should be applied  to the whole of the forthcoming period of medium-term planning. In view of the fact that the contributions of  Member States are calculated on the basis of a split-level system for the payment of contributions, and that the  bulk of the Organization’s expenditure is made in French francs, this new permanent dollar exchange rate Will not  affect the amounts of the contributions of Member States, as expenditure in French francs Will remain the same. It  was decided that the information which appears in document 28 C/5 relating to currency fluctuation should be  given a more prominent place in future C/5 documents.
(75.3) During the discussion, some delegates stressed the need for an energetic revision of budgeting methods  in order, as far as possible, to take into account other factors such as the budget ceiling, the ratio of staff costs to  programme costs, problems of strategic planning, the definition of priorities, the management of the  implementation of the programme, and the maximum absorption of cost increases, taking account of their actual  structure. Other delegates, while expressing their agreement with the methods adopted for establishing the  budget, said that the methods had to be constantly studied and emphasized that they should not be confused with
667    planning, evaluation or methods of administration. One member of the Commission spoke emphatically in favour  of setting aside a portion of the budget and using it to establish a fund for unforeseen events, SO that it could be  possible to compensate for shortfalls in contributions. Mr President, the draft decision on this point of the agenda  is given in paragraph 3 of document 28 U143. Thank you.
76. The PRESIDENT:  SO, are there any objections to the draft resolution on item 4.2, contained in paragraph 3? 1 see none.  The draft resolution is adomed. Canada has asked for the floor.
77. M. DEMERS (Canada) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je ne souhaite pas faire d’observation sur le projet de résolution qui vient  d’être adopté mais simplement vous informer que, lors de l’adoption de la Résolution portant ouverture de  crédits, le Canada voudra s’exprimer sur l’ensemble des questions budgetaires. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le  President.
78. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Sir. 1 now give you the floor to introduce the report on item 4.4.  Item 4.4 - Consideration of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997, Part 1 - General Policv and  Direction
79.1 r-H =KOB (POCCEiiCKaSI @eAepaqH& npeACeAaTeJIb KOMECCHH II0 aAMHHECTpaTEBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  BnaroAapro Bac. BHEMaHEe KOMECCIIE 6bIno IIpEBJIeseHo K AOKyMeHTy, coAep>r<aqeMy  nepecMoTpeHHym CMeTy 6IoAweTa, COCTaBJIeHHyIO reHepaJIbHbIM AHpeKTOpOM C yqeTOM  IIpEMeHeHEH +aKTOpa 3aAep>I<KH B 3aMeII&?HEH BaKaHCHfi Ha ypOBHe 3% BMeCTO K03@FiqEeHTa  B 2%, IIepBOHaYaJIbHO ECIIOJIb30BaHHOrO IIpE IIOArOTOBKe AOKyMeHTa 28 C/5. CeKpeTapEaT AOBeJI  A“ CBeAeHESl KOMHCCEE, PM, XOTII COXpaHWYtUI o6max CJ’MMa ZiCCErHOBaHEii, ~EIJ’pEpylOIlJaZ B  AOKyMeHTe 28 C/5, 6bInE BHeCeHbI H3MeHeHEH B pa3JIFIHbIe CTaTbEI aCCHrHOBaHH8, ¶TO CJIeAyeT  IIPEHEMaTb BO BHEIMaHEe IIPE yTBep>I<AeHFïE 6IoAxeTHbIX ZlCCErHOBaHEii.
79.2 06qne 3aMeqaHEx - PHA WICHOB KOMECCEE BbIpZt3HJIH MHCHEC, ¶TO o6%eM Cpe@YIB,  BbIAeJI5IeMbIX AJIH qacrn 1, 06maR normrnxa E PYKOBOACTBO, a Tame uacTe2 III, IV, V n VI,  CJIEIIIKOM BeJIEK B CpaBHCHEH C aCCHrHOBaHHRMH II0 %CTH 11 6IOAxeTa - BbIIIOJIHeHHe  IIpOrpaMMbI Il cnyx6bI. HeKOTOpbIe AeJIeraTbI BbIpa3EJIH MHeHEe, ¶TO CJIeAyeT yAeJIETb  BHEMaHEe BOIIPOCY 0 COOTHOIIIeHEE PaCXOAOB Ha IIpOI’paMMJ’ C PZiCXOAaMH Ha IIepCOHWI, BKJIKlUâR  PaCXOAbI Ha KOHCyJIbTaHTOB, BpeMeHHbIX II BHeIIITaTHbIX COTpyAHEKOB.
6bIn JIH OH COKpaIIJeH COIYIaCHO COOTBtXWByIOIQ~MJ’ PeIIIeHHKl KOH@CpCHqEE. &lCACTaBETCJIb  JYerleparrbHoro AHpeKTopa ynasaJI, PM KOJIE9eCTBO CTpaHEq COKpaTEJIOCb E 'ITO 6yAyT  IIPeAIIpEHIITbI BCC YCEJIHII AJUI Ai3JIbHCiiIIICrO MaKCEMaJIbHOrO COKpaIqCHEH o6-beMa AOKJ’MCHTaqHH.  OAEH 113 AWIWZFI-OB OTMWEJI, ¶TO 3Ha9HTeJIbHbIe CYMMbI II0 %CTE w 6romeTa BbI#YISHOTC~ Ha  yCTHb& EI IIECbMeHHbIti IIepeBOA E Ha cnyx6bI AOKyMeHTaqEH E VTO ewe 34 046 900 AOJIJI.
6bIno BbIAGlIeHO AJISJ tiyx6bI IIepeBOAOB H AOKJ’MeHTOB M OTAeJIa KOH@epeHIJEii C~1yw6  IIOAAep>IcKH nPOIJYGIMMb1. &JeACTaBETCJIb reHepWIbHOr0 AHpeKTopa AaJr IIOlICHeHEII OTHOCETWIbHO  IIepecMaTpEBaeMoro ECIIOJIb30BaHHx 3TBx CpeAcTB B 1996-1997 rr.
0 6IoJpKeTHbIx IIOCJIeACTBESIX yBeJIE¶eHW WIeHCKOrO COCTaBa kICIIOJIHMTeJIbHOr0 COBeTa C 51 A0
58 WIeHOB. r$WACTaBETWIb reHepanbrror0 AnpeKwpa oTMeTE,n, VTO AOIIOJIHETWIbHbIe
6KqmeTHbIe IIOCJIeACTBEH MOIJ’T COCTaBHTb 947 000 AOJIJI., H3 KOTOPbIX 395 500 AOJIJI. IIOiiAyT Ha  IIOKpbITEC AOIIOJIHHTWIbHbIX IIJ’T‘ZBbIX H CYTOUHbIX PaCXOAOB, a 551 500 AOJIJI., KaK  IIpeAnonaraeTfx, noTpe6yems AJIH IICpeIIJIaHEpOBKE 3a.na 3aceAaHEii CoBeTa. B xoAe  rrocne~osasmero 06CY>KAeHER IIPIS o6qeM COrJIaCHH B OTHOIIIeHEE TOrO, UT0 ~OIIOJIHETCJIbHbIe  PaCXOAbI AOJDKHbI 6bITb a6cop6HposaHbI B paMKaX HbIHeIIIHerO BepxHero IIpeAenbHoro ~POBH~
6IomeTa, a He Ao6aBJIeHbI K HeMy, BbICKa3bIBânHCb pa3JIHsHbIe MHeHHR 0 cnoco6ax  +EHaHCYrpOBaHESI STHX AOIIOJIHETeJIbHbIX PaCXOAOB. r-H npeACeAaTeJIb, II0 MHeHHIO WIeHOB  KOMECCEE, nIo6bIe AFiJIbHf&UHe COKpa~eHHsI B CBRJH C IIOKPbITHCM 3THX PZLCXOAOB, II0  B03MO~HOCTH, He AonxHbI 3aTparEBaTb qacTb II 6romeTa - BbIIIOJIHeHHe IIpOTpaMMbI II
19  CJIY>K~~I. EbIJlO TaK>Ke OTMe¶eHO, UTO IlpoeKT IlepenJlaHlfpoBKFl 3aJIa MCIIOJIHET~JI~HO~O CoBeTa  Ile paCcMaTpEBancSl KOMllTeToM Il0 mTa6-KBapTllpe c TOPKE 3peHEa ollpe~eJreHEs& B PacTHocTE,  BO3MOXGlOCTH @lHaHCEpOBaFlEII ero oKoH9aTenbHblx pacxojfoB, npe>KAe Bcero 3a c9eT cpencTB,  BbI~eJlSleMbIX B paMKaX nJlaHa 06HoBneHEH 3naHllii mTa6-KBapTEpbI. qT0 KaCaeTCH CyMMbI,  HeO6XOflEMOI? ~JIII IIepeo60py~oBaHB~ 3aJIa 3aceAaHEa CoBeTa, TO BpegcTaBwrenb reHepa.nbHoro  ,qEpeKTopa 3aRBl'lJl, 4TO AaHllaR qllg>pa OTpa>RaeT HaE6onee llpOpa6OTaHHylO Ha AaHHbIti MOMeHT  CMeTy CeKpeTapEaTa. ECJIH reHepaJlbHaa KOH<i?epeHqER IlpEMeT TaKOe pelUeHEe, TO IlpOeKT  nepen2aBEpoBKE a B03MO~HOCTE ero ~EllallCFfpOBaHllII MOryT 6bmb ~OllOJlHllTeJlbHO  paccMoTpeHb1 KOMHT~TOM IIO mTa6-KBapTEpe B 1996 r. npa LWOM paccMoTpeHEE MO>KHO 6yneT  yseCTb BO3MO>KHOCTll C@llaHCEpOBaHER 3TOji pa6o%l, B PacTHocTE, 3a cVeT cpeflcTB @oHna  kICllOJlb30BaHHII mTa6-KBapTHpbI Il nJlaHa oGBoB.neBEH, KOMpble 6blJIE yBenlFleHb1 B pe3yJlbTaTe  BbIAeneHllH ~OllOJlHETeJlbHbIX aCCErHOBaHEfl B 1,5 MJIH. AOJIJI. CLUA OT CyMMbI CpeflCTB,  IIepeHeceHBblx ~3 6mpKeTa sa 1992-1993 rr.
79.5 ~To Kacaewx reHepaJlbHOfi AEpeK4EH, 6bIna 3anaHbI BOllpOCbI OTHOCETeJlbHO IlyTeBbIX  pacxo~oa, IIpennonaraeMbIx Ha 1996-1997 rr. npencTaBETenb FeBepanbBoro REpeKTopa yKasa.n,  ¶TO IIyTeBble paCXOflb1 reHepaJIbHO$ AEpeKqBE CoCTaBEnE B 1992-1993 rr. 383 000 ~OJIJI., E  omet, YTO B CEJIY CoKpaIqeIIEII accIIrHoBaHEti Ha 1996-1997 rr. B CpaBHeHHH c yKa3aHHblM  AByXJIeTHHM IIepHojloM, nIo6bie ~aJlbHeiilllHe yCEJlFf5l, HallpaBJlCHHbIe Ha yMeHbllleHEe IlyTeBbIX  paCXOROB II0 3TOfi CTaTbe, HepeZllbHbI.
03a609eHHOCTb B CBII3E C CO3~aHlleM HOBMX llO~pa3~eJleHllii B paMKaX 3TOti rJIaBb1.  npeflCTaBE%Jlb reHepaJlbHor0 AEpeKTOpa coo61qm KOMECCEB o npEnaraeMblx ~CEJIIIIM,  HallpaBJlCHHbIX Ha yKpenJleHFle KOOp~HHaqEOHHbIX +yHKqHti c~1yx6 reHepaJlbHoii AEpeKqEH. PR~  ~eJleraToB Ilo~sepKHyJl HeO6XO~EMOCTb yJly=HlleHESI pa6oTbI UeHTpaJrbHOti l'pyllllbl OqeHKE  IlpOl'paMMbI. HeKoTopbIMB AeJleraTaMll 6brno BbICKa3aHO MHeHHe, 9TO OpEeHTEpOBO¶HylO l@py  B 0,5%, KoToparr no yKa3aHIno reaepanbaoro HBpeKTopa 0npeneneHa jqIa BblneneHlfH cpencTB Ha  OqeHKy ~eSlTeJlbHOCTFl 3a C9eT 6mflxeTa COOTBeTCTBylOlqEX IIpOl'paMM B AOKyMeHTe 28 c/5,  c.nexyeT ysenwmm Ao 1%. flpe~CTaBETeJlb reHepaJlbHOr0 AEpeKTOpa o6panuI BHEMaHEe  KOMECCEE Ha TO, ¶TO IlpoBeAeHEe OqeHKH, SIBJIHloIIleficrr sanasefi Bceii OpraHEsaIWE, He  OrpaHllsEBaeTCs TOJlbKO UeHTpmbHOk rpylllloti OqeHKH IlpOl'paMMbI, a pOJl>KHO OXBaTblBaTb BCe  ceKmpa. Eblno o6paIqeao BHEMaHHe Ha nJlaH OqeHKEI Ha 1996-1997 rr. B 3~0~ Kharie  IlpeAyCMOTpeH lllEpOKll~ ClleKTp MepOllpHW-l'Eti Il0 OqeHKe, KOTOpbIe AOJl>KHbI llpOB0~ETbCS-l  pa3Jlll'4HbIMFl CeKTopaME B 1996-1997 rr. no ero MHeHEIo, CpeJwIBa, BbI~eJIReMbIe Ha  IlpoBeAeHEe OqeHKFl, B Hawoalqee BpeMR IIBJIII~OTCR ~OCTaTO¶HbIMH. OJJHH E3 WleHOB KOMECCEE  BbIpa3FlJl MHeHFle, ¶TO Ka9eCTBO OqeHKE 3HaWlT oonbzue, UeM KOJlH¶eCTBO IlpOBefleHHblX  OqeHOVHbIX HCCJle~OBaHl4fl.
06bmIym IIporpaMhfy II 6ropKeT, TO CeKpeTapHaT IIOIlbITaeTcII IIpegIIpEHsITb YCEJIEH WI  BbIIIoJIHeHEII 3T0ii pe30nIoqIIE, Ha¶EHasI c 1996-1997 rr. ~OKJIa~ no 3TOMJ’ BOllpOCy 6yReT  BpencTaBJreH ~CllOJlHFl-lWlbHOMy coseTy c IIpocb6ofi o lloJlyseHllFï llOJlHOMO~E8 Ha  OCy~eCTBJleHHe HeO6XO~HMbIX Mep. %OT IlpOeKT pe30JllO~Hll 6brn HaMH IlepenaH DepBOfl  KOMHCCIIE AJIR Toro, m-o661 oHa IlpEHSlJla er0 BO BHEMaHEe B xone CBOEX IlpeHllti. KaK Bbl
(79.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. The attention of the Commission was drawn to the document which contained the revised  budget estimates established by the Director-General, taking into account the application of a lapse factor of 3 per  cent, instead of the figure of 2 per cent which was initially used in the preparation of document 28 C/5. The  Secretariat informed the Commission that while the total provision appearing in document 28 CI.5 had been  retained, changes had been introduced in various appropriation lines which should be taken into account when  adopting the budget provisions.
(79.2) General remurks - Several members of the Commission expressed the opinion that the proportion of the  resources provided for Part 1 (General Policy and Direction), and for Parts IlI, IV, V and VI, was too high in  comparison with the provisions for Part II of the budget (Programme Execution and Services). Some delegates  expressed the view that attention should be paid to the question of the relationship between programme costs and  staff costs, including the cost of consultants, temporary and supernumerary staff.
(79.3) During consideration of Chapter 1 of the budget (General Conference), discussion centred on the  volume of General Conference documentation and, in particular, on whether this had been reduced in pursuance  of the relevant decision of the General Conference. The representative of the Director-General pointed out that  the number of pages had been reduced and that every effort would be made to reduce further the volume of  documentation to the maximum possible extent. One delegate pointed out that considerable sums under Part 1 of  the budget were provided for interpretation, translation and documentation services and that a further  US $34,046,900 had been provided for the Languages and Documents Service and the Conference Division of the  Programme Support Services. The representative of the Director-General provided explanations conceming the  use envisaged for these provisions during 1996-1997.
(79.4) Under Chapter 2 (Executive Board) discussion centred on the consequences, in budgetary terms, of  increasing the membership of the Executive Board from 51 to 58 members. The representative of the Director-  General pointed out that the additional budgetary implications could amount to US $947,000, of which  US $395,500 would be used to caver additional travel and subsistence costs and US $551,500, as estimated, were  needed for alterations to the Board’s meeting room. In the ensuing discussion, while there was general agreement  that the additional costs should be absorbed within the existing budget ceiling and not added to it, divergent  views were expressed on the methods of financing these additional costs. In the opinion of the members of the  Commission, Mr President, any further reductions made in order to caver these costs should not, if possible,  affect Part II of the budget (Programme Execution and Services). It was also pointed out that the plans for the  alterations to the Executive Board room had not been reviewed by the Headquarters Committee SO as to  determine, in particular, whether their final cost could be chiefly financed from the funds provided under the Plan  for the Renovation of Headquarters Premises. With regard to the sum required for re-equipping the Board’s  meeting room, the representative of the Director-General stated that this figure represented the best estimates of  the Secretariat at that particular moment. Should the General Conference SO decide, the planned alterations and  the possibilities of tïnancing them could be further examined by the Headquarters Committee in 1996. This  examination could take account of the possibilities of funding the work from the Headquarters Utilization Fund  and the Renovation Plan. These had been increased by an additional US $1.5 million from funds carried over  from the 1992-1993 budget.
(79.5) As regards the Directorate, queries were raised concerning the travel costs foreseen for 1996-1997. The  representative of the Director-General said that the travel costs of the Directorate for 1992-1993 had amounted to  US $383,000 and indicated that since the provisions for 1996-1997 represented a reduction as compared with that  biennium, any further attempts to reduce travel costs under this heading were unrealistic.
(79.6) With regard to the Services of the Directorate, several delegates expressed their concern about the  creation of new sub-units under this Chapter. The representative of the Director-General informed the  Commission of ongoing efforts to strengthen the co-ordinating functions of the Services of the Directorate. A  number of delegates stressed the need to improve the functioning of the Central Programme Evaluation Unit.  Some delegates expressed the opinion that the tentative figure of 0.5 per cent, which, on the instructions of the  Director-General, had been laid down in document 28 C/5 for providing funds for the evaluation of activities from  the budgets of the programmes concemed, should be increased to 1 per cent. The representative of the Director-  General drew the attention of the Commission to the fact that evaluation was a housewide activity, which was not  limited only to the Central Programme Evaluation Unit but must caver a11 sectors. Attention was drawn to the  Evaluation Plan for 1996-1997. This Plan envisaged a wide range of evaluation activities to be carried out by the  various sectors in 1996-1997. In the opinion of the representative, the funds envisaged for evaluation were  sufficient at present. One member of the Commission expressed the view that the quality of evaluation mattered  more than the number of evaluation studies carried out.
(79.7) Mr President, the Commission examined draft resolutions DR.106 (concerning the Bureau of Studies,  Programming and Evaluation) and DR.361 (concerning the Bureau for Extemal Relations). With respect to  DR.106, the Commission adopted the draft resolution appearing in paragraph 11 of document 28 C/143. As  regards DR.361 concerning the transfer of funding for regional and subregional consultations preparatory to the  General Conference from the total funds for the Participation Programme to the regular programme and budget,  beginning with document 29 C/5, the Secretariat Will try to take action to implement this resolution as from 1996-
1997. A report on this matter Will be submitted to the Executive Board with a request for authorization to effect  the necessary transfers. This draft resolution was also communicated to Programme Commission 1 SO that it could  take it into account in its discussions. As you know, Mr President, the relevant decision has already been taken by  the plenary after consideration of the report of Commission 1. Thank you.
80.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Jonkov. If there are no objections, we shaIl consider the recommendations  contained in paragraphs 7 to 10 and paragraph 13 and tbe draft resolutions appearing in paragraphs 11 and 12  of document 28 C/l43 as adopted. 1 see no objections. They are adomed.
80.2 Now we tum to item 4.7. Once again, Mr Joukov, you have tbe floor.  Item 4.7 - Consideration of tbe Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. Part IV - Management and  Administrative Services
81. r-H XYKOB (POCCEtiCKaSl @e~epaqHH, HpegceflaTenb KOMECCHE no a~MklHECTpaTEBHblM  BOlIpOCaM):  Bnaronapm Bac. r-H rIpeAcenaTenb, nocne KpaTrcoro 06Cyx,qeHEH KOMEICCHH npEa5ma K  CBeHeHmo 6KQxeTHbIe aCCErHOBaHEfx no ~TOI? CTaTbe. &IaroflapIo Bac.
(81) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr F’resident. After a brief discussion the Commission took note of the budget provision  under this Part. ‘I’hank you.
82. The PRESIDENT:  On tbis, we are to do tbe same: to take note. It is SO decided. Thank you. Back to you, Mr Jonkov.  Item 4.8 - Consideration of tbe Draft Promamme and Budget for 1996-1997, Part V - Maintenance and  Security
(83) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  After a brief discussion the Commission took note of the budget provision under this Part. Thank you.
84.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. On this matter, we are merely to take note. It is SO decided. Thank you very much.
84.2 You have tbe floor once more, Mr Joukov, for item 4.9.  Item 4.9 - Consideration of tbe Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. Part VI - Ca&al Exuenditure
3TOfï UaCTI'I 6IoA>KeTa BAeHTE=IHbl TeM, KOTOpble CO~epJKa'I-CH B AOKyMeHTaX 28 (75 E 28 c/5  Rev.1, JWïTblBaSI, P'IU II0 jacte 'KaIIETaJIbHbIe paCXOflb1" He 6bmi IIpeAyCMOTpeHbl paCXOJfb1 Ha  IIepcoHaJI, a 3To 03Ha¶aeT, ¶TO He IIOTpe6OBaJIEcb KOppCKTEpOBKH, Bbl3BaHHble E3MCHeHHCM  f#laKTOpa 3agep>I<KE B 3aMeqCHHH BaKaHCEii liJIE BOCCTaHOBJIeHEeM ~OJI>KHOCTefi B flOKyMCHTe
(85) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. The Commission took note that the budget provisions in this Part were identicai with those  in documents 28 Cl5 and 28 Cl5 Rev.1, since there were no provisions for staff costs under ‘Capital Expenditure’.  This means that adjustments due to the change in the lapse factor or to the renewal of posts in document 28 C/5  were not required.
86.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Once again, if tbere are no objections, we shall consider tbe recommendations contained in  paragraph 17 of document 28 C/l43 as adopted. It is SO decided.
86.2 We turn now to item 4.10. Mr Joukov, please.
671    Item 4.10 - Consideration of the Draft Promamme and Budget for 1996-1997, Part VII - AnticiDated Cost  Increases
87.1 r-H XYKOB (PoccHiicKa5I @eflepaqHsI, npegceflaTe.nb KOMHCCHH no agMEHEcTpaTEBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  IjnaronapIo Bac. B xone 06cyxqemm BoIIpoca 0 pacxonax, CBI13aHHbIX c EHc@IaqEeii H  pOCTOM 06a3aTeJIbHbIx pacxo~oa, O~H~aeMbIx B 1996-1997 rr., ~Ec~yccErr pa3BepHyxacb ~0~pyr  TexHmecmx acneKToB pacseroB no 3Tofï qacTE, B ¶acTHocTE B TOM, wo Kacaewz pa3MepoB  OKJIaAoB COT~~~~HHKOB, ByTeBbIx II ApyrHx pacxoEoa, a Tame 0TpEqaTenbHbrx accmHosaHm2 no  @OHXY MeAHqHHCKOrO cTpaxoBaHH~ H BbI3BaHHOrO 3TEM HeflocTannHoro ypOBHII  +EHaHCIïpOBaHER 6IogXe’ra. KOMHCCIUI 6bIna EH+OpMEpOBaHa 0 TOM, 9TO OTpHqaTenbHbIe  accErHoBaBEH BbITeKaIOT E3 pezueam 14%fi CeCCHE klCIIOJIHE'IWIbHOr0 COBeTa 06  a6COp6HpOBaHHE B paMKaX GIoAxeTaofi OCHOBbI AOIIOJIHETeJIbHbIX paCXO~OB B CyMMe 2,3 MJIH.  AOJIJI., BbI3BaHHblX yBeJIH¶eHHeM BSHOCOB B 3TOT @OHA C 1 SlHBap5I 1996 J?.
87.2 KOMHCCHR yKasa.na, PTO qH@pbI 'qaCTE VIII He IIO~BeprFiJIHCb O6HOBJIeHHJ!o B CBII3E C  EI3MeHeEEeM @aKTOpa 3anep>I<KE B 3aMeqeHEH BaKaHTHbIX AOJDKHOCTeii C 2% X0 3%,  BOCCTaHOBJIeHEeM flOJI>KHOCT& B IIITâTHOM paCIIECaHEH MelKlIpaBETeJIbCTBeHHOii  oKeaHorpac@secKoH KOMHCCEE H JJeHTpa BceMBpBoro HacnenlEis, @ïHaHcEpyeMbIx no 06bIYHOMy
87.3 BbIJIE Tame lIOAHHTb1 BOIIpOCbI, KaCZUOlIJHeCH AOIIOJIHETeJIbHbIX CpenCTB, Tpe6yeMbIx B  CBIISE C yBeJIE¶eHEeM pa3MepOB OKJIanOB COTpyAHHKOB. KOMHCCHII 6bIna o3HaKoweHa c  IIO~pO6HOCTHMH 3TOii OJJeHKE, eii 6bIJIE AaHbI pa3%HCHeHESI B OTHOIUeHEE saMOpa>I<HBaHm  IUKaJIbI OKJIaflOB COTpyAHHKOB KaTerOpEE 0614~~ CJIY~~, a Tame o emeronHbIx HaJJ6aBKaX  nepcoaarry 6e3 H3MeHeHIuI KJIaCCa ~o~I>~~oc~efi 3a 6e3ynpesHym CJI~>I~~Y.
87.4 no 3aBepLLIeHmE o6cyx~eHm KOMECCHR enEHorxacBo cornacE.nacb npeAno>KETb  reHepanbHo8 KOH+epeHqHH yTBep~ItTb 6KqmeTHbIe aCCFtrHoBaHER B pa3Mepe 1.5 704 000 XOJIJI.  II0 9aCTE VII IIpE TOM IIOHEMaHME, UT0 3Ta CyMMa 6yneT IIOflBeprHyTa KOppeKTHpOBKaM B CBeTe  perueHYia, KOTOpOe 6yneT IIpHH5ITO Ha COBMeCTHOM 3acepaHEE KOMHCCEIH II0 aflMHHHCTpaTEBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM H KOMECCEii II0 IIpOl?paMMe. fjbIJI0 TaK>Ke peIIIeH0 peKOMeH,QOBaTb, VTo6bI B 6yxyweM  reHepaJIbHbI8 AEpeKTOp IIpeJJCTaBJISIJI Ha CeCCEH MCIIOJIHHTeJIbHOrO COBeTa, HeIIOCpeXCTBeHHO  IIpejJIIIWTByIO~ei reHepaJrbHO$ KOH@epeHqHE, 06HOBJIeHHbIe CMeTbI, oTpa>KaIozrpre nIo6bIe
(87.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. The discussion on the costs of inflation and statutory increases expected in 1996-1997  centred on the technical aspects of the calculation of this Part, in particular with regard to the amounts for staff  salaries, travel and other expenditure, and to the negative provisions for the Medical Benefits Fund and the  under-budgeting that this represented. The Commission was informed that the negative provisions stemmed from  the decision of the 145th session of the Executive Board to absorb, within the budget base, the additional costs,  amounting to US $2.3 million, occasioned by the increase in contributions to this Fund, effective from 1 January
(87.2) The Commission pointed out that the figures in Part VJU had not been updated to reflect the change in  the lapse factor from 2 per cent to 3 per cent, and the restoration of permanent staff posts in the Jntergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission and the World Heritage Centre, fïnanced from the regular budget. The representative  of the Director-General assured the Commission that this would be done during the preparation of document
28 C/5 Approved which, as in the past, would reflect a11 the decisions taken by the General Conference.
(87.3) Questions were also raised concerning the additional amount required in connection with increases in  staff salaries. The Commission was provided with details of this estimate and given explanations regarding the  freeze in the General Service salary scale and also concerning the annual within-grade increments which are  granted to staff, subject to satisfactory service.
(87.4) At the end of the debate, the Commission unanimously agreed to propose that the General Conference  should approve the budget provisions of US $15,704,000 for Part W, it being understood that this amount Will be  subject to adjustment in the light of the decision to be taken by the Joint Meeting of the Administrative
19  Commission and the Programme Commissions. It was also decided to recommend that in future, the Director-  General should submit to the session of the Executive Board immediately preceding the General Conference,  updated estimates reflecting any significant changes in costing occurring since the Draft Programme and Budget  were prepared. Thank you, Mr President.
88. The PRESIDENT:  If there are no objections once more, 1 take it that the plenary Will approve the recommendations  contained m document 28 U143, paragraphs 18 and 19. They are annroved. The next subject relates to the  Administrative Commission? examination of the 28 C/5 Appendices of which there are sixteen. 1 have been  told beforehand by Mr Joukov that he Will only comment in detail on some of them. You have the floor.  Annendices to document 28 CL5
89.1 r-H XYKOB (POCCEtiCKaSi @eXcpannrr, IIpeHceJIaTWrb KOMHCCEU II0 aAMEHHCTpaTEBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  BbI IIpaBbI, r-H npeXCeJJaTeJIb, HO B OTHOLIIeHEkI HeKOTOpbIX IIpIUIO>KeHI& eCTb CMbICJI  CKa3aTb HeCKOJIbKO CJIOB. 3w 6yxeT, HaBepHOe, Ei EHTepeCHO, H IIpHHTHO. MTaK, KOMHCCHH
3asepmu~ra TexHwfecKoe paccMoTpenne AoKyMeHTa 28 C/?i, IIpoBexrr yrny6neHHoe 06cyxqeHne  ruecTHaxqaTLz IIpHJIO~eHEii K 3TOMy AOKyMeHTy, OHHHHaJJ4aTb H3 KOTOpbIX COXepxaT JfaHHbIe,  KacaIoqfecrr GroxXceTa, a IIsITb - IIpOrpaMMHOii fle%lWIbHOCTH. npeJJCTaBETeJIb reHepaJIbHOr0  xHpeKn>pa noflTeepflEm, w-0 me XaHHbIe, coxepwamecR B npnno>KeHaax, 6yxy~ 06HoBneHbI B  XOXe IIOArOTOBKE yTBep>IcACHHbIX IIpOI'paMMbI E 6roxXeTa, C TeM mo6bI OTpa3HTb pezrreana,  IIpHHSITbIe FeHepaJrbHOIi KOH+epeHqFIeii.
89.2 KOMHCCHII npHHsuIa K cBexeHEw rIpHno>KeHHe 1 nocJre TOrO, KaK 6bmo IIOJIyseHO  IIoflTBep>Ic~eHHe 0 TOM, 9TO GIojqxe'I%bIe aCCErHOBaHH5I B pa3Mepe 22 MJIH. XOJIJIapOB II0 qaCTE
89.3 lIpwIo>KeHkIe 11 BbI3BaJIO JfJIIlTeJIbHOe 06cyxqeHI.fe. HeKOTOpbIe WIeHbI KOMHCCHH  yKa3ann, 9~0 1r0 cTaTbe "&y>r<e6Bb1e noe3flKH COT~Y~~HHKOB" IIO CpaBHeHEIO CO CTaTbefi  "Hoe3xmi AeneraToB" Ire OTMevaewzI CoKpaIqeHEH, OCO6eHHO ecJIEi IIpHHIITb BO BHEIMaHHe  YCEJIHSI, npexnpnHRTbIe MCIIOJIHEITeJIbHbIM COBeTOM II0 COKpaIIJeHIW IIyTeBbIX paCXO~OB.  KOMHCCLISI BbICKa3aJIa IIoxenaHEe, UTo6bI B 6yxyIqeM paCXOflb1 Ha IIOe3XKH WIeHOB  MCIIOJIHETeJIbHOrO COBeTa IIpOBOflEJIECb OTfleJIbHOii CT~OKO~~. OXEIH VJIeH KOMECCHM ysasan, 9~0  OpraHHsaqEH MOrJIa 6bI CSKOHOMETb 4,.5 MJIH. nO?IJIapOB, IïCIIOJlb3ySI aBHaqHOHHbIe TapI@bI  Aneu E 3a c9eT CoKpa~eHWI WlCJIa IIOe3XOK. EbIJIO CneJIaHO HalIOMHHaHHe, TF0 B CBSI3E C  BHegpeHHeM COBpeMeHHbIX KOMMyHEKaIJEOHHbIX CHCTeM E ~e~eHTpaJIH3aqHI'ï HeO6XO~EMOCTb B  KOMaH~EIpOBKaX Il3 mTa6-KBapTEpbI B IlOXpa3XeJIeHtlR Ha MeCTa ffOJI>KHa YMeHbIIIaTbCH. B  OTHOIIIeHkIH CpaBHHTeJIbHO HESKEIX paCXOROB II0 CTaTbe *KOHCyJIbTaHTbI XJIII rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB"  HO CpaBHeHEIo CO cTaTbefi 'KOHCyJIbTaHTbI flJISI CeKpeTapHaTa" B TeKyLlJCM JJByXJIeTHH,  IIpexcTaBwrenb reHepaJIbHor0 XnpeKropa EH@O~MH~OB~JI wIeHoB KOMEICCHM, 9~0, XOTII nonbsy  rocy~apcTBaM--WIeHaM IIpEHOUlT ycnyni Bcex KOHCyJIbTaHTOB, EHorRa npexcTaarrseTcff
3TH I&lpbI, II 'lT0 nIo6bIe OIIIH6KII B KJIaCCE@ïKa@iH KOHCyJIbTaHTOB 6ypyT IïCIIpaBJIeHbI B Toi?  Mer=, B KOTOpOfi 3T0 OKalKeTCR B03MO>KHbIM. qT0 KaCaeTCH CIIeqlEiJIbHbIX COBeTHEKOB, TO  IIpeXCTaBHTeJIb reHepa.JIbHOrO XHpeKTOpa IIOJJTBepnHJI, 9TO 3a ECKI09eHEeM OXHOrO CIIeqEaJIbHOrO  COBeTHHKa, Bce HbIHeILIHHe KOHTpaKTbI CIIeqlEiJIbHbIX COBeTHEIKOB HCTeKyT B KOHqe TeKymerO  rolla, II 9TO B JJOKyMeHTe 28 c/5 He IIpeXyCMOqeHO HYIKaKHX KOHKpeTHbIX aCCErHOBaHEti Ha 3TPï  qegE. T1pHHB K cBexeHnI0 nplmoxeHFfe II, wIeHb1 KOMECCHH IIOII~OCHJIH, wo6bI II o6paTu  BHkItiBHHe reHepa.IIbHOfi KOH+epeHqHE Ha EX 03a609eHHOCTb B 3TOfi CBIISH, E peKOMeHXOBaJI%l  BKJIIO9II-Z cne~ym@i IIyHKT B IIpOeKT perueana. SI QETHpyIO: "rIpli paccMoTpeBHa  rIpYrJIolKeHmrr 11 KOMECCHR IIpHHRJla K CBeJJeHEBJ TO 06CTORTeJIbCTB0, 9TO B npOeKTe  nporpaMMbI II 6roxXeTa na 1996-1997 rr. He npexycMoTpeHo KaKHX-JIH60 acc&irHoBaBHÈi Ha  CIIeqFiaJIbHbIX COBeTHHKOB', KOHeq 4ETaTbI.
89.4 A==, r-B lIpexcexaTenb, KOMECCHR npHHzna K cBexeHHm Ilp~no~eH~e IV, aacnyrnan  IIpeJJCTaBETeJIR reHepa.nbHoro AIïpeKTopa, B TOM 9Ecne ero 3axBneBrfe 0 TOM, 9To I@pbI,  IIpHBOAEMbIe B 3TOM npEIJIO>KeHEH, He BKJIKFiaIOT B ce6H paCXOXb1 Ha IIepCOHZiJI, KOCBeHHbIe  paCXOXb1 II0 IIpOI'paMMe E npOrpaMMy ysaCTHR.
89.5 B OTHOIneHHH ~pnJIo>KeHIw VIII XeJIeraTbI 3anpOCEJlH H nOJIyYEJIE 06HOBJIeHHyIO  llH+OpMaIJWO, BKJIIOSaEoIIlJ'IO CpaBHIlTeJIbHbIe XaHHbIe 3a 1994-1995 rr. II nOKa3bIBamIIQW  KJIaccbI JJOJI>KHOCT& COT~YAHHKOB, pa6oTaIolqHx B HacToHmee BpeMx. QeHbI KOMHCCEE  BbIpa3HJIH 03a60'ZeHHOCTb B CBIISE C yBeJIH¶eHHeM B CeKpeTapHaTe UHCJIa J(OJDKHOCTeii BMCOKEIX  UaccoB. rIpexcTaBETenb reHeparrbHor0 XEpeKTopa 3aBepH.n weHoB KOMECCHE, 9~0, XOTH H  HMêJrO MecTo yBenmeme. wcna TaKHX JJOJDKHOCTeii, npOqeHTHOe COOTHOIIIeHEe XOJIJKHOCTeki  Knacca D-l II BbIIIIe, n0 CpaBHeHHIO C O~~HM WiCJIOM ~OJDKHOCTeIi KaTerOpEH CneIJIGUIECTOB,  Bce >Ke no-npelKHeMy HM>Ke, 9eM B CpeXHeM B paMKaX BCeii CECTeMbI OpraHE3aqHH
06%eAHHeHHbIX HaqnH. EbIno Tame yKasaH0, VT0 psg COT~YJJHHKOB, 3aHnMammx ~OJI>KHOCTEI  BbICOKOrO Knacca, BbIHxyT Ha neHcEI0 B KoHqe TeKyqero XByxneTHero nepHo,qa. AeJIeraTaME
6bmo BbICKa3aHO MHeHEe, VT0 3T0 XaCT BOJMOWHOCTb OpraHE3a~HH OCyqeCTBHTb Ha6op HOBbIX  COTpyJJHHKOB, B OCHOBHOM Ha AOJI>KHOCTH K.nacca c P-l no P-4. rIo 3aBepmeHHH o6cy>KxeHHR
89.6 KOMECCEIH npHH%IIa K CBeXeHHIO npHJIO>KeHHe XI, 3aCJIyILIaB BbIpa>KeHHyH) HeKOTOpbIMM  ReneraTaME o3a609eHHocTb B OTHOIIIeHE COOTHOIIIeHHX MelKXy paCXOJfaME Ha nepcoHaJI H  paCXOJJaMH n0 npOIJJaMMe B HeKOTOpbIX nOXpa3J(eJIeHEHX BHe mTa6-KBapT%ïpbI, KOTOpOe, KaK OH  HaxeeTcrr, yJIysIIII,iTCR nOCJle TOrO, KaK 6yxeT 3aBCpIIIeHa Bceo6'beMJrIo~aa OqeHKa pa6oTbI 3TEIX  noxpa3fleneHmii.
89.7 npIuIo>KeHHe XII BbI3BaJIO 06cyxqeHEe, B KOTOPOM np~H~nn yqacTBe MHorHe wIeHbI  KOMKCCEE, BbIpa3IlBLIIHe HeXOyMeHHe B OTHOJ.IIeHLIE TOrO, 'iT0 BO MHOrEX CJIyuaSIX XJIII  cosemaanii KaTeropzïE II npexycMaTp5iBaeTcz kICnOJIb30BaHEe JIkIIIIb OXHOrO pa6oTIero II3bIKa,  BMeCTO, KaK MIIHEMyM, AByX, KOTOpbIe HeO6XOjJEIMbI XJIR o6ecneseHHR axeKBaTHOr0 ysaCTHa  rOCyJJapCTB-WICHOB. OAHH WIIeH KOMHCCEIH ysa3aJI, 9~0 J(JIH pana CoBeqaHHa, nepesHcJIeHHbIx B  npHJIOJKeHHIJ XII, eAHHCTBeHHbIM pa6osmM II3bIKOM IIBJlIIeTCH aHrJII&CKHii. BT0 npOTEIBOpeWT  npaBEJIaM, KacaIowHMcrr npoBexenHH coaeqaanii, a Tame paaee npEHRTbIM pe30JIIOqERM  reaepanbaoii KoH+epeHqHn. 3~0 Taxe CHEJKaeT 3C@fleKTEBHOCTb COBeIIJaHEk, 1160 06LqeHEe  Mexqy XeneraTaME 3aTpyxHRewa npE HCnOJIb30BaHEEI TOJIbKO OXHOrO R3bIKa. npeXCTaBHTe.IIb  reaepanbaoro XEpeKTOpa COrJIaCHJICII C TeM, VT0 3T0 06CTOIITeJIbCTBO BbI3bIBaeT COXGUIeHHe, E  IIOIICHEJI, =ITO B XaHHOM CJIy=Iae BOnpOC 3aKJHO9aeTCII B npHOpETeTaX, BbI6paHHbIX CeKTOpaMH,  KOTOpbIe onpexenswrw C yseTOM OIJJaHIFIeHHbIX CpeXCTB, YiMeIOIIJEXCH B NX paCnOpH>KeHFfH.  TeM He MeHee CeKTOpaM 6yxeT npexno>KeHo o6ecnesETb IlCnOJIb30BaHHe no KpakHeii Mepe HByX  R3bIKOB Ans 3TOii KaTeropnH COBeIIJaHEii B xoxe cnexyromero XByxneTHero nepnoxa.  UpeACTaBETeJIb reHepZIJIbHOr0 XHpeKTOpa nOX=iepKHyJI, =~TO CeKpeTapnaT co6nIonan H 6yxeT  npOnOJI>KaTb CO6JIIoJJaTb npaBHJra, OnpeXeJUIIO~He IICnOJIb30BaHBe SI3bIKOB Ha COBellJaHERX,  OJJHaKO CJIO>KHâH GIOg>KeTHax CETyaIJER B HeKOTOpbIX npOI'paMMHbIX CeKTOpaX XeJIaeT 3T0 HHOrXa  TpyflHOBbInOJIHIIMbIM. OH 3aBepEJI WIeHOB KOMHCCIIH, 4TO CeKTOpaM 6J'xJ'T BHOBb XaHbI yKa3aHWI
0 CO6JIIO)JeHEE perJIaMeHTHpyIO~HX Tpe6oBaHHii, KaCaIO~&iXCs II3bIKOB. r-H rIpexceflaTenb,  HeKOTOpbIe XeJIeraTbI, COCJIaBIIIECb Ha @HaHCOBbIe nOCJIe~CTBIfR, KOTOpbIe MOryT B03HEKHyTb B  CBIIJE C npegnaraehloiï Mepoii, BbIcKa3anE coo6pa>I<eHMe 0 TOM, 9~0 wïc~10 coBemaHGi ,qon>~~o
6bITb COOTBeTCTByIOIQEM o6pa3oM CKOppeKTEpOBaHO, C TeM 9To6bI He BbIXOAHTb 3a npeXeJIb1
6IoxJKeTHbIX CpeJJCTB, npeflyCMOTpeHHbIX Ha COBe~aHEHX.
89.8 B xoAe 06cyXzgeHEsI npEJIO>KeHkIH XIV 6bI.u 3aTpOHyT BOnpOC 06 OqeBEXHOc  HeJfOCTaT09HOCTE B oqease pa6oTbI noxpa3fleneHnii Ha MeCTaX. %IeHbI KOMECCIUI 6bJnn  npOHH@OpMIlpOBaHbI 0 TOM, =iTO npE nOJJrOTOBKe XaHHOrO ~IpIïJIOlKeHHH He 6bI.m OnpeJJe.%HbI  fui xapaKTep, IIE paMKE OIJeHKH pa6oTbI nOXpa3XeJIeHHti BHe mTa6-KBapTHpbI, HO 9TO TaKâR  oqeaea, KOTOpaR y>I<e HaWlJIa npOBOJJETbCR HeKOTOpOe BpeMZ TOMy HaJaX, 6yxeT npOJ(OJI>KeHa II  UTO P~KOBOJJR~EM 0praaaM 6yxeT npexcTaaneH AoKnax no ee HToraM. Il0 3aBeprueHaH  o6cy>KxeHHR KOMECCESI npEIHHJIa K CBexeHHH, npHJIo>KeHHe XIV E peKoMeHxoBaJra, 9To6bI nnaH  no oqeaee Ha 1996-1997 rr. BK.Ino=IaJ[ B ce6a II oqeaey pa6OTbI noRpa3neneHEii Ha MecTax.
89.9 KOMHCCHB Tame npEHRJra K CBeXeHEK, BCe OCTa.JIbHbIe IIpHJIO>KeHHR, 0 KOTOpbIX R He  ynoM&ïHaJL 2 He 6y~~y Ha3bIBaTb 3TH npEJIO~eHER, C TeM 9To6bI COKpaTHTb BpeMH AJISI CBOerO  BbICTyIIJIeHWI. r-H npeJJCeJJaTeJIb, B nyHKTe 27 XOKyMeHTa ci143 COXep>I<ETCR TeKCT peJOJIK)qHH,  KOTOpbIfi peKOMeH~yeTCH npHHRTb B OTHOIIIeHBII BCeX ~pIUIO>KeHHti. BJIarOXapKJ Bac.
(89.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  That is correct, Mr President, but a few words must be said with regard to some of the appendices. This  Will certainly be both interesting and agreeable. The Commission completed its technical examination of  document 28 C/5 with an in-depth discussion on the 16 appendices to that document, 11 of which contain data  concerning the budget and five relate to programme activities. The representative of the Director-General  confiimed that a11 data in the appendices would be updated during the preparation of the Approved Programme  and Budget to reflect the decisions of the General Conference.
(89.2) The Commission took note of Appendix 1, once it had been confirmed that the budget provisions of  US $22 million for Part ILC (Participation Programme) were included under the provisions for Parts lI.A and ILB.
(89.3) Appendix II gave rise to a lengthy debate. Some members of the Commission pointed out that there was  no reduction shown under the heading ‘Staff travel on officia1 business’ in comparison with the heading ‘Delegates’  travel’, although the Executive Board had made especial efforts to reduce travel costs. The Commission expressed  the wish that in future, travel costs of Members of the Executive Board should be shown in a separate line. One  member of the Commission pointed out that the Organization could save US $4.5 million by using Apex fares and  by reducing the number of journeys. It was recalled that in view of the introduction of modern communication  systems and decentralization, the need for officia1 journeys from Headquarters to field units should diminish.  With regard to the relatively low provisions under ‘Consultants to Member States’ as compared with ‘Consultants  to the Secretariat’ during the current biennium, the representative of the Director-General informed the  Commission that, although the services of a11 consultants were for the benefit of Member States, it was  sometimes difficult to determine the category to which they belonged. He confïrmed that the computerized data  base on which these figures were based would be updated and that any errors in the classification of consultants  would be corrected as far as possible. With regard to special advisers, the representative of the Director-General  confirmed that, with the exception of one, a11 present contracts of special advisers would expire at the end of the  year, and that no specific appropriation had been foreseen for this purpose in document 28 C/5. While taking note  of Appendix II, the members of the Commission requested that 1 should draw the attention of the General  Conference to their concern in this respect, and recommended that the following paragraph should appear in the  draft decision: In considering Appendix II, the Commission took note of the fact that, for the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1996-1997, no provisions for special advisers had been foreseen’.
(89.4) ln addition, Mr President, the Commission took note of Appendix IV, after hearing from the  representative of the Director-General, inter alia, that the figures in this appendix did not include staff costs,  indirect programme costs and the Participation Programme.
(89.5) With regard to Appendix VlJJ, delegates requested and were given updated information, including  comparative data for 1994-1995 and data showing the grades of staff members employed at present. Members of  the Commission expressed concern over the growing number of top-level posts in the Secretariat. The  representative of the Director-General assured the Commission that although there had been an increase in such  posts, the percentage of posts at D-l level and above compared to the total number of posts at Professional level  was still less than the average throughout the United Nations system. lt was also pointed out that a number of  staff in higher level posts would retire at the end of the present biennium. Delegates expressed the opinion that  this would enable the Organization to recruit new staff members, particularly at levels P-l to P-4. At the end of  the debate, the Commission took note of Appendix VIll and recommended that, in future, this appendix should  contain updated information on the actual situation and on the number of posts budgetarily vacant.
(89.6) The Commission took note of Appendix Xl after hearing the concern voiced by some delegates with  regard to the ratio of staff costs to programme costs in some field offices which, he hoped, would be improved  once a comprehensive evaluation of the work of these offices had been completed.
(89.7) Appendix Xll gave rise to a discussion in which many members took part, expressing bewilderment  that, in many cases, only one working language was foreseen for category II meetings instead of two as the  minimum required to ensure adequate participation by Member States. One member of the Commission pointed  out that for a number of meetings listed in Appendix XII, the only working language was English. This was  contrary to the rules concerning the conduct of meetings and to previous General Conference resolutions. It also  reduced the effïciency of meetings when communication between delegates was hampered by the use of one  language only. The representative of the Director-General agreed that this was unfortunate and explained that m  the present instance it was a question of sector priorities, determined with regard to the limited resources at their  disposal. However, sectors would be requested to ensure that at least two languages were used for this category of  meetings during the next biennium. The representative of the Director-General stressed that the Secretariat  abided and would continue to abide by the rules governing the use of languages for meetings, but that the difficult  budget situation in some programme sectors made it sometimes hard to do SO. He assured the Commission that  sectors would be given renewed instructions to observe the statutory requirements concerning languages. Some  delegates, Mr President, referring to the tïnancial consequences which might ensue from the proposed measure,
675    expressed the view that the number of meetings should be adjusted accordingly in order not to exceed the limits  of the budgetary resources provided for meetings.
(89.8) The discussion on Appendix XIV touched upon the obvious inadequacy in the evaluation of the work of  tïeld offices. The Commission was informed that at the time when this appendix was prepared, neither the nature  nor the framework of field office evaluation had been defined, but that such evaluation, which had begun some  time ago, would continue and a report on its conclusions would be submitted to the governing bodies. At the end  of the debate, the Commission took note of Appendix XIV and recommended that the Evaluation Plan for 1996-
1997 should include an evaluation of field offices.
(89.9) The Commission also took note of the remaining appendices, which 1 have not mentioned. 1 shall not  cite these appendices in order to shorten the time taken up by my speech. Paragraph 27 of document 28 C/143,  Mr President, contains the text of the resolution recommended for adoption with respect to a11 the appendices.  Thank you.
90.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Joukov. As you say, the draft resolution is contained in paragraph 27 of document
28 C/143. If there are no objections, 1 shall consider the recommendations contained in that paragraph and in  paragraphs 20 to 26 as adopted. It is SO decided.
90.2 We now turn to item 9.1. You have the floor, Mr Joukov.  Item 9.1 - Report bv the Director-General on the implementation of the Information-Resources Development  Plan (1994-1995)
03a609eHHOcTb HI13KHM ypOBHeM pe3yJIbTaTOB, ~OCTHrHyTbIX 3a nIecTb neT, nponrenrrrnx co  BpeMeHH pa!?ipa6oTKn nnaaa. IIocne paccMoqennR BCeX COOTBeTCTByIo~HX JJOKyMeHTOB  KOMHCCHR PeKOMeHpOBaJIa IIpHHIITb IIpOeKT peJOJIK?IJHPI, CO~ep>r<aLI@CH B IIyHKTe 28 AOKyMeHTa
(91) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Commission expressed disappointment and concern at the  low level of achievement in the six years since the plan had been drawn up. After examining a11 the relevant  documents, the Commission recommended that the draft resolution appearing in paragraph 28 of document
28 C/l43 should be approved. Thank you.
92.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. May 1 take it that if there are no objections, the draft resolution in paragraph 28 is  adopted? It is SO decided. Thank you.
92.2 Now we turn to Financial Questions. The lïrst item is item 10.1. You have the floor, Mr Joukov.  Item 10.1 - Financial report and audited fïnancial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for  the lïnancial period ended 31 December 1993, and report bv the External Auditor
93. r-~ XYKOB (PocctikKaR @enepaqwI, npencenaTenb KOMHCCHH IIO aRMBHw?rpaTRBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  &IaroflapIo Bac. r-~ npegcenaTenb, KOMHCCHR 6bIna npoHH+opMnpoBaHa 0 TOM, 9TO  peBH3Op CO CTOpOHbI, OTBeTCTBeHHbIii 3;1 ayJJllTOpCKyI0 IIpOBepKy yKa3aHHbIX CjlISHaHCOBblX  OTYeTOB, He MOlKeT IIpIICyTCTBOBaTb Ha HaCTOSIqeti CeCCEïII. O,IJHaKO peBH3Op CO CTOpOHbI B  IILICbMeHHOM BHAe HH+O~MH~OB~JI Bac, r-u IIpencenaTenb, o TOM, YTO OH YAOBJIeTBOpeH  BbIIIOJIHeHBeM er0 peKOMeH~aI@ï II0 pe3yJIbTaTaM ayflHTOpCKO8 IIpOBepKH. EbIJI IIOAHIIT p%Jl  BOIIpOCOB, Kacamqnxcrr BbIIIOJIHeHIUI peKoMeH~aI@i, KOTOpbIe conep>I<aTcss B floK.nane peBH30pa  CO CTOpOHbI, B 9aCTHOCTZI OTHOCHTeJIbHO CEi'IyaqHH C yperyJIHpOBaHaeM 6aHKOBCKHX C9eTOB.  KOMHCCHII HaJIa BbICOKyIo oqeHKy Bceo6%eMJIKnqeMy IIpeKpaCHOMy floK.nafly pesa30pa CO  CTOpOHbI, a TaKJKe BbICOKOMy ypOBHH) pa6OTbI &OpO @HHaHCOBOrO KOHTpOJIepa. AeJIeraTbI  IIOCTaHOBILlIH peKOMeHAOBaTb KoH+epeH~kIH IIpHHSITb pe3OJIIOqWo, KOTOpaR COnep>r<HTCR B  nyHKTe 29 noK.JIaJJa, InrewqeroczI nepen BaMH. kIaro!JapIo Bac.
(93) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission was informed that the External Auditor responsible for  auditing these fînancial statements was unable to be present at this session. However, the External Auditor had  informed you in writing, Mr President, that he was satisfïed with the follow-up of the recommendations he had  made on the results of his audit. A number of questions were raised concerning the implementation of the  recommendations contained in the External Auditor’s report, in particular concerning the situation with the  reconciliation of bank accounts. The Commission expressed its appreciation of the External Auditor’s excellent  and comprehensive report and of the high standard of the work done by the Bureau of the Comptroller. The  delegates decided to recommend that the Conference should approve the resolution appearing in paragraph 29 of  document 28 C/143.
94.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, may we adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 29?  You are quite right, the ExternaI Auditor did send me a very nice letter saying he did not need to be here  personally because everything was OK. 1 see no objections. This is approved.
94.2 1 Will now ask Mr Joukov to present the report on item 10.2. You have the floor, Sir,  Item 10.2 - Financial report and audited financial statements relating to the United Nations Development  Programme as at 31 December 1993, and report bv the ExtemaI Auditor
9.5. I?-H XYKOB (PoccHticKaR @eRepaqnR, npeAceRaTenb KOMEICCHH IIO aflMHHHcTpaTCIBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  KOMHCCII~ 6e3 o6cyxqeHna PeKOMeHEOBaJIa reHepZiJIbHOii KOH+epeHqllH IIpHHSITb TeKCT,  Co~epxaIqHiicx B IIyHKTe 30 AoKyMeHTa 28 c/143. haronapI0 Bac.
(95) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation fiom  the Russian):  The Commission recommended without a debate that the General Conference should adopt the  resolution in paragraph 30 of document 28 C/143. Thank you.
96.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Once again, we cari do the same. It is SO decided.
96.2 Now, we turn to item 10.3. You have tbe floor, Mr Joukov.  Item 10.3 - Financial reDort and interim financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO as at
3 1 December 1994 for the fïnancial period endins 31 December 1995
97. r-H XYKOB (PoccnficKaa <DeflepaqHz, npeAceflaTenb KOMHCCEIH no aflMHHHcTpaTmsHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  nOCJIe IIpe~CTaBJIeHWI 3TOrO IIyHKTa IIOBeCTKH RHR H HeIIpOJJOJIlKFfTeJIbHbIX IIpeHHfi  KOMHCCHS-I peKOMeHnOBZiJIa reHepaJIbHOti KOH@epeHlJHH IIpHHIITb TeKCT IIpOeKTa peJOJIK?IJHH,  KOTOpbIti HaXOnHTCl B IIyHKTe 31. IjJIaI-OflapI Bac, r-H npenCenaTeJrb.
(97) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  After the introduction of this item, followed by a short debate, the Commission recommended the  adoption by the General Conference of the draft resolution in paragraph 31 of document 28 C1143.
98.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, 1 shall consider the draft resolution contained in paragraph 31 of  document 28 C/l43 as adopted. It is SO decided.
98.2 We now turn to item 10.4. Mr Joukov, you have the floor.  Item 10.4 - Scale of Member States’ contributions
677    BKJIK)UeHHIO B IIpOeKT pe30JIIOqHEI, KOTOpbIti COAepWHTCR B AOKyMeH'E 28 C/60. B xone  o6cyx~emx 6bIno rIpe@IoxeHO, 9To6bI B 6ygyweM CeKpeTapIiaT IIpe~cTaBnan BapHaHT IIIKZiJlbI  B o6%eMe 100 6e3 BKJIKFIeHHR Tpex rocy~apcTB, KoTopbIe BbIIIInEI ~3 OpraHusaqxxa B 1984 r. H  B 1985 r. KOMHCCEIB PeKOMeHjJOBaJIa reHep&IIbHOii KOH@epeHIJHH IIpHHHTb pesoJIIooqFiIo, KOTOpâR  CO~epWHTCR B nyHKTe 32 AoKyMeHTa, HMeroqeroca nepen BaMr% &IaroAapIo Bac.
(99) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Under this item, the representative of the Director-General gave a short explanation regarding the  suggested tut-off to be inserted in the draft resolution contained in document 28 C/60. During the discussion it  was suggested that, in future, the Secretariat should submit an alternative scale totalling 100 per cent, without  including the three States which withdrew from the Organization in 1984 and 1985. The Commission  recommended that the General Conference should adopt the resolution appearing in paragraph 32 of document
28 Ct143.
100. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. If there are no objections 1 consider the recommendation concerned in  paragraph 32 as adopted. It is SO decided. We Will tum to item 10.5.  Item 10.5 - Currencv of Member States’ contributions
101.1 r-H xYKOB (Poccuticxarr @enepaqns, FIpenceEaTenb KOMIWCHH no aflMtïHwrpanBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  Bnaronapro Bac. rIpeficTaBJIsI5I EOKyMeHT C/61, IIpe~CTaBWIWIb reHepanbHor0 AHpeKTopa  npennoxwx KOMACCBH, UTo6bI JJOJlX HaWlCJIeHHII B3HOCOB BO +paHqy3CKHX +paHKaX B TeVeHIfe  IIpe~cToRLL(ero RByxneTHero nepnofla 6bIna yCTaHOBJIeHa B pa3Mepe 61%. OTXOA OT L@lpbI B
58%, KOTOpaR IIplïMeHSIeTCR B TeKyIIJeM J(ByXJIeTHeM IIepHO~e, CBRJâH TJIaBHbIM o6pa3oM C  M3MeHeHHeM IIOCTORHHOrO o6MeHHoro KypCa @paHqy3CKOrO +paHKa II0 OTHOIIIeHHIO K ,I(OJIJIapy  CIIIA - c 6,45 +paH4y3CKHX If>paHKOB ~(0 5,70 +paHqy3CKHX @aHKOB 3â OAHH ,qOJIJIap.
1,5 MJIH. ~OJIJI. CIIIA, II 9~0, seporrmo, yJJaCTC5I C03AaTb 6onee JJIHHaMMrlHyIO CltCTeMy  OTHOlUeHMti M=wY OpraHn3aqneG H HaqHOHaJIbHbIMH KOMMCCEIIIMH Ha OCHOBe tI3yseHkVI  B03MO>KHOCTeii, OTK~bIBalOIJHXC5l sepe3 MeXaHN3MbI 'cBona" k~ sepes 610~0 IIPOOH. KOMHCCHSI  IIOCTaHOBHJIa peKOMeHJ(OBaTb reHepaJIbHOti KOH@epeHQHH oAo6pIITb TeKCT IIpOeKTa pe3OJIIOIJHlt,  KOTOpbIfi COflepiI<HTCR B IIyHKTe 33. %IWO~apIO Bac.
(101.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. In his presentation of document 28 C161, the representative of the Director-General  proposed to the Commission that the percentage for the assessment of contributions in French francs for the  forthcoming biennium should be set at 61 per cent. This change from 58 per cent applied during the current  biennium was largely due to the modification of the constant exchange rate of the French franc to the United  States dollar. from FF6.45 to FF5.70.
(101.2) With regard to the payment of contributions in currencies other than United States dollars and French  francs, the Commission was informed of the possibility offered to Member States of settling arrears of  contributions in national currencies, taking into account the requirements of the Participation Programme for such  currencies. The Commission was further informed that the Director-General had been able to accept the  equivalent of US $1.5 million in national currencies during the present biennium and that it would probably be  possible to establish a more active system of relationships between the Organization and the National  Commissions by exploring facilities open through swap arrangements and through UNDP offices. The  Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference should approve the draft resolution appearing in  paragraph 33 of document 28 C/143.
102. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. If there are no objections, 1 shah consider tbe draft resolution in  paragraph 33 as adopted. It is SO decided. And now, Mr Joukov, 1 would like you to introduce item 10.6.
19  Item 10.6 - Collection of Member States’ contributions
103.1 r-~ XYK~B (PoccHticKax Qenepaqmrr, HpeRceAaTenb KOMHCCMH II0 agMHHHCTpaTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  EJraroAapIo Bac, r-H npeAceAaTeJIb. KaK, BOSMOXHO, BbI ~OraAbIBaeTecb, B KOMIICCEIEI  COCTOSIJIaCb BeCbMa OXG'ïBJIeHHaR flHCKyCCHR II0 3TOMy IIyHKTy IIOBeCTKH AHSI. npenCTaBHTeJIb  reHepaJIbHor0 AHpeKTOpa IIpHBeJI 06HOBJIeHHbIti CIIMCOK rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB, KOTOpbIe yIIJIaTPiJIH  B3HOCbI B IIOCJIeAHee BpeMSL OH PeKOMeHAOBaJI Tame, 9To6bI C qeJIbI0 yueTa AaJIbHeiiLIIHX  npocb6, CBR3aHHbIX C IIpeACTaBJIeHHeM IIJIaHOB IIOraIIIeHIDI 3aAOJIIKeHHOCTH, IIpeAeJIbHbIii CpOK  An51 HX II~HIWTHX 6bIn yCTaHOBJIeH, II0 BO3MOWHOCTH, Ha 6onee IIO~AHI~IO RaTy.
3aiiMOB, C¶EITâR, 'ZTO 3TO HaHOCHT yqep6 HHTepeCaM OpraHIf3aqHH, KOTOpbIe 3aKJIK)qaIOTCII B  CTHMyJIHpOBaHHH rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB K CBOeBpeMeHHOfi BbIIIJIaTe IIX BJHOCOB. npH3HaBaSI, 9TO  HCKJIIOWlTeJIbHbIe o6cToaTenbcTsa HJIH 3KOHOMIFIeCKHe TpyJJHOCTH MOI'yT B HeKOTOpbIX CJIysaSIX  IIpeIIXTCTBOBaTb CBOeBpeMeHHOti BbIIIJIaTe BSHOCOB, 6onbIIIHHcTBo AeneraToB, TeM He MeHee,  omemm, 9TO BBHJIJ yCTaHOBJIeHEIR LIIKâJIbI B3HOCOB C y%TOM IIJIa'EJKHbIX BOJMOlKHOCTel?  rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB, KaK IIpaBHJIO, He AOJDKHO 6bITb KaKmx-nn60 OIIpaBAaHHki JJJIII HeyIIJIaTbI  B3HOCOB. n0 HX MHeHHIO, nnaTe~ecnoco6HocTb OpraHll3aqHH He AOJI>KHa IIOApbIBaTbCH B TaKOti  CTeIIeHH, UTO B03HHKaCT HeO6XOAHMOCTb HCIIOJIb30BaTb BHeIIIHHe 3aiiMbI B CBIIJEi C HeyIIJIaTOii  BJHOCOB.
103.3 Msyuaa Bonpoc 0 TOM, KaK OIJJaHM9FiTb HCIIOJIb30BaHMe BHeIIIHHX 3afiMOB, KOMHCC~SI  paccMoTpena cneAymqe aJIbTepHaTHBb1: YCTaHOBJIeHHe KaTeropHsecKoro 3anpeTa Ha  IICIIOJIb30BaHHe BHeIIIHHX 3aflMOB; pa3pa60TKa IIJIaHa IIOCTeIIeHHOrO OTKa3a OT 3aHMCTBOBaHMR  BHeLLIHHX CpeACTB B COOTBeTCTBMH C peaJIHCTH9HbIMH BpeMeHHbIMH paMKaMH; pa36HBKa IIpOI'paMM  HO IIpHOpHTeTEIOCTrfï Ha ABe IUIH 6onee KaTeropnH C pe3epBOM CpejJCTB Ha CJIysaii  HeIIpeABiIneHHbIX 06CToRTeJIbCTB, HcxoAH I13 npeflnonaraeMor0 HeflOCTaTOYHOrO IIOCTyIIJIeHHSI  HaJIIFIHbIX cpeAcTB B Te9eHsie AByxzeTHero nepnona; noBbnneHme BepxHero IIpenenbHoro ~~OBHH  @OHna o6opoTHbIx CpeJ&ZB C UeJIbKl OI'paHWIeHHR 3aiiMOB TOJIbKO BHyTpeHHHMH IICT09HHKaMEI;  yCTaHOBJIeHHe C@KCIIpOBaHHOrO IIpeJ(eJIbHOr0 ypOBH5l JJJIII 3aHMCTBOBaHHbIX CpeACTB; CO3JJaHHe  KOHTpOJIbHOrO MeXaHH3Ma AJIII yTBepJKJ(eHHSI 3aRBOK Ha MCIIOJIb30BaHHe 3aiiMOB.
103.4 npeJJCTaBHTeJIb reHepaJIbHOr0 AHpeKTOpa 3aHBHJI, 9TO kICIIOJIb30BaHIle BHeLUHEIX 3aiiMOB  RBJIIIe'ICII BIIOJIHe IIpeABHjJHMOti HeO6XOAHMOCTbIO, 6e3 KOTOPO~~ AeRTeJIbHOCTb OpraHM3aqw  IIpHOCTaHOBEITClf. IjOJIbIIIaSI VaCTb 3aHMCTBOBaHHII Cpe&TB OCy~eC'iBJISIeTCSi 38 CYeT BHyTpeHHHX  HClYYIHIIKOB, a BHeIJIHlle 3afiMbI 0I'paHHWBaK)TCR HeIIpO~OJI>K~TeJIbHbIMlï IIepHOAaMH IIpH  HaHJIyWlIHX pbIH09HbIX CTaBKaX. kIneKl BBeJfeHHs Ha CJIysaii HeIIpeJJBHfleHHbIX 06CTORTeJIbCTB  pe3epBa JJJIII IIpOrpaMMHbIX MepoIIpHzTHfi c yseTohl HX IIpEIOpEITeTHOCTII 6bIno 661 TpyAHO  peaJIH30BaTb, IIOCKOJIbKy 3TO OTpnqaTeJIbHO CKalKeTCR Ha IIpOI'paMMHOfi AeSITeJIbHOCTH II MOrJIO
6bI @aK’rnqecKH, Aaxe HaO6OpOT, no6y>I<gaTb rocyAapcTsa-sneHbI K HeynnaTe CBOHX BSHOCOB.  FI-I-0 KacaeTcx BapHaHTa IIOBbIIIIeHHR ypOBHII @OHna 06OpOTHbIX CpeflcTB c qeJIbIo yMeHbILIeHH5I
3ajiMOB, TO TaKOe yBeJIH%HHe AOJDKHO 6wrb BeCbMa CyL&%YBeHHbIM EI He OIIpaBAbIBaeT TOrO,  'ITO TaKHC 3HaqHTeJIbHbIe CpeACTBa rOCyAapCTB-WIeHOB MOryT OCTaBaTbCII 6e3 ABIDKeHHR.  KOMHCCEIR 6bIna MH@OpMHpOBaHa 0 TOM, 9TO 3Ta npo6neMa AOJDKHa 6brrb B 3HaWWZIbHOk  CTeIIeHH pa3peLUeHa B 6nHxafimeM 6yAyqeM B pe3yJIbTaTe KOppeKTEpOBKE IIIKaJIbI o6no>KeHnR,  KOTOpaSI, KaK OlKE~aeTCH, 6yneT 6onee pe~ElFIH0 OTpalKaTb B03MO>KHOCTH BbIIIJIaTbI B3HOCOB.
103.5 B KOHqe o6cyq(eHHR HeKoTopbIe VJieHbI' KOMHCCHH 3aSIBIuIH, UTO, CornauIaiscb c  KOHCeHCyCOM OTHOCIITeJIbHO IIpenOCTaBJIeHHR &UIbHtiIIIIiX IIOJIHOMOWI? Ha IICIIOJIb30BaHHe  BHeILIHEIX 3ailMOB, HX ACJIeraqHEï IIOIIIJIH Ha 3HaWlTeJIbHbIe yCTyIIKI& IIOCKOJIbKy, II0 HX MHeHHIO,  IIpaKTHKy BHeIIIHerO 3aHMCTBOBaHHR CJIeAyeT yCTpaHIITb He IIOCTeIIeHHO, a IIpeKpaTWI'b y>r<e  ceiisac. KOMHCCIGI PeKOMeHAOBaJIa FeHepaJIbHOii KOH+epeHqHH IIpHHRTb LIIeCTHanIJaTb IIpOeKTOB  pe30foqufi, KOTOpbIe HaXOASITCSI B IlyHKTe 34 AOKJIapa, KOTOpbIti HaXO@ïTCSI IIepen BaMEï, r-  H npe,qcenaTenb. EnaroAapIo Bac.
(103.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation). Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. As you may possibly guess, this item gave rise to a very animated debate in  the Commission. The representative of the Director-General gave an undated list of Member States which had  recently made contributions. He also recommended that in order to accommodate further requests connected with
679    the submission of plans for meeting obligations, the final tut-off date for acceptance of such plans should be set  as late as possible.
(103.2) Several members of the Commission indicated their unwillingness to resort to external borrowing,  considering it to be detrimental to the interests of the Organization, which were to encourage Member States to  pay their contributions on time. While recognizing that exceptional circumstances or economic hardship might in  some instances impede the punctual payment of contributions, most delegates remarked that, since a scale of  contributions had been established in accordance with the ability of Member States to pay, there should generally  be no excuse for non-payment. In their opinion, the Organization’s solvency should not be compromised to the  point where the need for external borrowing arose as the result of non-payment of contributions.
(103.3) In considering how to limit external borrowing, the Commission examined the following options:  (a) instituting an outright ban on external borrowing; (b) drawing up a plan to gradually phase out dependence on  external resources, in accordance with a realistic time frame; (c) dividing programmes according to priority into  two or more categories, with a reserve for unforeseen circumstances arising out of the expected shortfalls in cash  flow during the biennium; (d) raising the ceiling of the Working Capital Fund with the aim of limiting borrowing  to borrowing from interna1 sources; (e) setting a fixed ceiling for funds borrowed; and (f) establishing a control  mechanism to approve requests to borrow.
(103.4) The representative of the Director-General stated that recourse to external borrowing was an entirely  foreseeable necessity, without which the work of the Organization would corne to a standstill. Most borrowing  was made from interna1 sources, while external borrowing was limited to brief periods at the most favourable  market rates. The idea of introducing a contingency reserve for programme actions, with allowance made for their  degree of priority, would be difficult to put into practice since it would have an adverse effect on programme  activities, and could, in fact, perversely encourage Member States not to pay their contributions. With regard to  the option of increasing the Working Capital Fund in order to reduce borrowing, such an increase would have to  be an extremely large one and there was no justification for tying up such considerable funds from Member  States. The Commission was informed that the problem should be largely solved in the near future as the result of  an adjustment in the scale of assessments, which was expected to reflect capacity to pay more realistically.
(103.5) At the end of the debate, some members of the Commission stated that in agreeing to the consensus  regarding the continuation of authorization for external borrowing, their delegations had made major concessions,  as in their opinion external borrowing should not be phased out gradually but terminated as of now. The  Commission recommended that the General Conference should adopt the 16 draft resolutions appearing in  paragraph 34 of document 28 C/l43 before you, Mr President. Thank you.
104.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. Before we move to taking a stand on the resolutions, 1 have been  asked by the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee to inform you that two third-round elections Will be  taking place in a few minutes time., in the Nominations Committee. They concern Iirstly the International Co-  ordinating Council of the Man and the Biosphere programme, where for Group V(a) - the African States - there  is one seat to be filled. The two candidates are Guinea and Mozambique. The second election concems the  Intergovernmental Council of the International Programme for the Development of Communication, where  there are two seats to be fïlled and five candidates: Angola, Comoros, Guinea, Mali and Namibia. Mr Musa  Hassan, the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, has asked me to give you this information SO that you  do not miss these third-round elections, in the event you do not have any other representatives in the room.
104.2 1 thank you, Mr Joukov, for your presentation on the question of payment of contributions from  Member States, and if there are no objections, 1 shall consider the 16 draft resolutions contained in paragraph
34 as adopted. It is SO decided. We now move into item 10.7.  Item 10.7 - Working Canital Fund: Level and Administration
105.1 r-H XYKOB (PoccnticKaH a>eAepaqmrr, IIpeAcexa’renb KOMRCCHII no aJfMHHBCTpaTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  B xoAe o6cy>r<~enmi MHorne AeneraTbI no~@p~a.rrn nAeH, ysennseamr YPOBHR <DoHAa  o6opo'IzbIx CpenCTB C 22,2 MJIH. AOJIJI. A0 25 MJIH. AOJIJI. ,&JyrHe, OAHaKO, 3aMeTEIJIH, 9TO 3T0  yeenuseme He AOJDKHO 6bITb HCIIOJIb30BaHO B KaVeCTBe IIOAMeHbI CBOeBpeMeHHOii yIIJlaTb1  BJHOCOB rocygapcTBaMH-WIeHaMm. no MX MHeHHIO, yBeJIWieH&ie ypOBHII @OHna JIRJKeT  HeOIIpaBnaHHbIM 6peMeHeM Ha n.ne71n Tex rocynapcrn-snenon, KOTOpbIe CBOeBpeMeHHO  BbIIIOJIHHIOT CBOH @ïHaHCOBbIe 06H3aTeJIbCTBa. OAHH ~3 WIeHoB KOMHCCHH yKasaJI, 9~0 Ha
147-a CeCCHH HCIIOJIHkITeJIbHOrO COBeTa COCTOSIJIaCb yrJIy6neHHaH AJIHTeJIbHaSI AHCKyCCIUI II0
3TOMy BOIIpOCy, II o6paTwIcrr K KOMHCCHB c IIpH3bIBoM IIpHHIITb IIpOeKT peJOJIIO~HH,
19  COAeplKaII@& B AOKyMeHTe, KOTOpbIti y>Ke CaM II0 ce6e IIBJIHeTCR pe3yJIbTaTOM AeJIEïKaTHOrO  KOHCeHCyCa, AOCTIWHyTOrO B MCIIOJIHLITeJIbHOM COBeTe.
105.2 OTseliarr Ha BOIIpOCbI II0 3TOMy IIyHKTy IIOBeCTKH ,QHR, IIpeACTaBHTWIb reHepaJIbHOr0  AHpeKTopa Aan pa3WICHeHHsI H yT09HeHHII OTHOCHTeJIbHO IIpaKTEIKEI, Cy~eCTByIo~ea B ApyrHX  opraHH3aqHRx CHCTeMbI OpraHH3aIJHH 06'beflHHeHHbIX Haqm%, a TaK>Ke OTHOCHTeJIbHO IIpOqenyp  @ïHaHckIposamIR npenJraraeMor0 yBeJrYiueHnx ypo~Hzs @oHAa.
105.3 B sasepmenHe o6cyqeHEIR KOMHCCHR jqocTHrJra ~OrOBOpeHHOCTH 0 TOM, 9~0 ypOBeHb  @oHna o6opoTHbIx CpeflcTB Ha 1996-1997 rr. flon>KeH 6bn-b ycTaHosneH B pa3Mepe 25 MJIH.  ~OJIJI., H PeKOMeHAOBaJIa reHepUbHOti KOH+epeHIJHB IIpHHIITb pe3OJIKlIJEI0, KOTOpaH CO~eplKHTCR  B E~HKT~ 35 AoKyMeHTa, HaxoAaIqeroc54 nepen BaMn. Enaronapfo Bac.
(105.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  During the debate, many delegates supported an increase of the Working Capital Fund level from  US $22.2 million to US $25 million. Others, however, stated that this increase should not be used as a substitute  for the punctual payment of Member States’ assessed contributions. In their opinion, an increase in the level of the  Fund would place an unwarrantable burden on the shoulders of those Member States which met their fïnancial  obligations punctually. One member of the Commission pointed out that a detailed and lengthy discussion on this  item had taken place during the 147th session of the Executive Board, and made an appeal to the Commission to  adopt the draft resolution contained in the document, which was already the result of a delicate consensus reached  at the Board.
(105.2) In reply to questions on this item of the agenda, the representative of the Director-General provided  explanations and clarifications on the practice in other organizations of the United Nations system and on the  procedures for fmancing the proposed increase in the level of the Fund.
(105.3) At the end of the debate, the Commission came to an agreement that the level of the Working Capital  Fund should be set at US $25 million for 1996-1997 and recommended for adoption by the General Conference  the resolution contained in paragraph 35 of document 28 C1143.
106.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. The draft resolution is in paragraph 35. If there are no objections, 1  shall take it as adopted. It is SO decided.
106.2 We move now to item 10.8. Mr Joukov has the floor,  Item 10.8 - UNESCO CouDons Programme
107.1 r-H XYKOB (PoccHficKaH @eAepaqHH, HpeAceAaTenb KOMHCCHH no aAMMHHWpaTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  B XO]le 06CyJKAeHmI 3TOrO IIyHKTa IIOBeCTKEI AHII HeCKOJIbKO ~fXIWaI@I B CBOHX  BbICTJ'IIJIeHHRX AaJIEi BbICOKyH) 0qeHKy nporpaMMe 60~ I~HECKO. O~H ~3 AeneraTon  IIOJJsepKHyJI, UT0 B 3THX 6oHax MOrJIM 6bI BbIIIJla9EIBaTbCII +HHaHCOBbIe BSHOCbI B paMKaX  nporpaMMb1 ysacTHR. npeAcTaBnTenb reHeparrbHor0 AHpeKTopa II~OHH+IO~MH~OB~~ KOMIICCHH) 0  TOM, =ITO B 1994-1995 rl-. 6oHbI IOHECKO HCIIOJIb30BaJIO IIIeCTbAeCRT OJJHO rocyJJapcTBo-WIeH,  II BbIpa3HJI HanelKJJy, 9TO uepes ABa roAa, Korna 6yneT oTMe9aTbcH nsrr&iAecRTaR ro~oBIQmIa
(107.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  During the discussion on this item, several delegates expressed their great appreciation of the UNESCO  Coupons Programme. One delegate emphasized that financial contributions under the Participation Programme  could be made in UNESCO Coupons. The representative of the Director-General informed the Commission that  in 1994-1995, UNESCO Coupons had been used by 61 Member States, and expressed the hope that in two years’  time, when the Programme would celebrate its tïftieth anniversary, the number would have become larger still.
(107.2) Mr President, the Commission recommends that the General Conference should adopt the draft  resolution appearing in paragraph 36 of document 28 C1143. Thank you.
108.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no objections, the plenary Will follow the recommendation of the  Administrative Commission. It is SO decided.
108.2 We move now to item 10.9. Mr Joukov, please.  Item 10.9 - Pronosals bv the Executive Board on wavs and means of auuointing an extemal auditor
109. P-H XYKOB (PoccIIticKaa @eAepaqInI, rlpeAceAaTeJIb KOMIICCIIH II0 aJIMIIHIICTpaTIIBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  &IarOnapIo Bac. B XOne IIpeHII8 OCHOBHOe BHIIMaHkIe 6bIno yneJIeH0 BOIIpOCaM,  KaCaIoIIIIIMCSI BOSMO>KHOrO HaGMa peBII3Opa CO CTOpOHbI II/IIJIEI er0 COTpyAHHKOB. OAIIH II3  AeJIeraToB o6paTIIn BHHMaHHe KOMIICCHII Ha TO, TI'O B AeKa6pe COCTOIITCII 3aceAaHae KOMHCCNH  peBH30pOB OOH, B IIOBeCTKy AHSI KOTopOrO BKJIIOYeH 3TOT IIyHKT, II 9T0, B03MO>KHO, II0 3TOMy  BOnpOCy 6ynyT CtpOpMyJIIIpOBaHbI pyKOBOAS!IIIIIIe yKa3aHIIH. HeKOTopbIe AeJIeraTbI, OAHaKO,  OTMeTIIJIII, YI‘O KOMIICCIIII peBII30pOB OOH BbIIIOJIHSIeT TOJIbKO KOHCyJIbTaTHBHyHJ pOJIb B  OTHOIIIeHEIII opraInI3aqafI CIICTeMbI OOH. no HX MHeHHIO, RJISI COXpaHeHIISI gOJI>KHOti  He3aBIICHMOCTII IpyIIIIbI peBII30pa CO CTOpOHbI CJIeAyeT 3anpeTaTb Hx HaeM. HeCKOJIbKO  fleneraq&I BbIpa3anH MHeInIe, 9To ~TOT Borrpoc He HOCHT cposaoro xapaKTepa II 4To  coomewmyrorqee peIIIeHIIe MO>KeT 6brrb IIpIIH%IW Ha OCHOBe peKOMeHnaI&I ~CIIOJIHHTWIbHOrO  COBeTa Ha cne~ymrqefi ceccm PeHepaJIbHOii KOHt#epeHI.IHH. KOMIICCIIH PeKOMeHAOBaJIa  Peaepanbaoti KoHtpepeHqau IIPHHIIT~ pe30JnoqMIo, KoTopaR coAepXnTca B II~HKT~ 37. BnaroAapro  Bac, r-n IIpenceuaTenb.
(109) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. During the debate, particular attention was devoted to questions relating to the possible  recruitment of an External Auditor and/or members of his staff. One delegate drew the attention of the  Commission to the fact that the United Nations Pane1 of External Auditors would meet in December, that this  item was on its agenda and that it was possible that guidelines on this issue might be drawn UP. Some delegates,  however, pointed out that the United Nations Pane1 had only an advisory role vis-à-vis the organizations of the  United Nations system. In their opinion, in order to safeguard the necessary independence of the External  Auditor’s team, there should be a prohibition on recruiting them. Some delegations expressed the opinion that the  question was not of an urgent nature and that an appropriate decision could be taken on the basis of the Executive  Board’s recommendations at the next session of the General Conference. The Commission recommended that the  General Conference should adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 37 of document 28 C1143. Thank you,  Mr President.
110.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Are there any comments concerning this item? If not, 1 take it that the draft  resolution containedin paragraph 37 is adopted. It is sodecided.
110.2 Now we turn to the Staff Questions, the first of which is item 11.1. You have the floor, Mr Joukov.  Item 11.1 - Staff Regulations and Staff Rules
111.1 P-H XYKOB (PoccniicKaX @eAepaqas, HpenceflaTenb KOMIICCIIII no a,qMBHHCTpaTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  nepen TeM, KaK II IIepeI?Ay K BOIIpOCy 0 IIepCOHaJIe, II XOUy CKa3aTb, 'ITO MHe OCTaJIOCb  BCerO YeTbIpe CTpaHEIIIbI. TaK 9TO KOHeII yn-02 BIIReH.
111.2 MTaK, IIYHKT 11.1. BO BpeMR 06cyWfleHIIR 3TOrO BOIIpOCa IIpeACTaBIITeJIb OAHOii II3  aCCOInIaI@ IIepCOHaJIa, BbICTyIIaSI B XOne o6cyqeInIti IIyHKTa, BbIpa3IIJI COMHeHIDI OTHOCIITeJIbHO  noJIe3Horo xapaeTepa ~e%IWIbHOCTIï KOMIITeTa no CJIy>I<e6HbIM XapaKTepIIcTIIKaM.  npeACTaBIITeJIb ApyrOii aCCOInIaIIIIII IIepCOHaJIa BbIpa3IIJI 03a609eHHOCTb HepCOHaJIa B OTHOIIIeHIIII  PXAa ~PY'MX BOIIpOCOB, TaKHX, KaK: HeB03MO>KHOCTb AJIR COTpyAHNKOB IIOJIy=IeHIISI KOHTpaKTOB Ha  HeOIIpeAeJIeHHbII? CpOK, IIocJIe~cTsEi~ BO~MO>KHOI? IIpnBaTH3aqIIn HeKoTopbIx cny~6 KlHECKO,  yCJIOBM5I pa6oTbI, IIOJIOxWHHe COTpyAHHKOB Ha MeCTaX B CBII3II C OTCyTCTBHeM YeTKOti IIOJIIITIIKH  pOTaIfEIII KaApOB, IIeHCIIOHHOe o6ecneseHEIe HeKOTOpbIX BbIIIIenIIIIIX B OTCTaBKy COTpyAHHKOB  IOHECKO, @OHA MeflHInIHCKOrO 06cJIy~IIBaHarr, a Tame CpOK IIOJIHOMOWii  A~MIIHIICTpaTIIBHOrO Tpn6yHaJra Me>KflyHapoAHo$ opraHH3aqInI TPYAa* HpeACTaBIITeJIb  PeHepmbHOrO AIIpeKTOpa B CBOeM OTBeTe IIOAsepKHyJI, VI-0 aAMIIHIICTpaIIII5I IIOAAep>I<IIBaeT
19  xoponme ~~11311 c o6enMn accoqnaqnaMn nepcoaarra. OH yKa3aJI AaJIee Ha >KenaTeJIbHOCTb  yIIpoqea5uI HeKOTOpbIX CymeCTByIOmX a~MHHHCTpaTHBHI,IX IIpOqeAyp H OTMCTIUI, YTO B  HacToaqee BpCM5l paCCMaTpHBaIOTC~ MepbI, IIpH3BaHHbIe IIOBbICIiTb ypOBeHb ~e~eHT&WIHJa~~H II  MO6EiJIbHOCTH COTpyAHHKOB, 14 YTO IIpHBaTEï3aqHFï HeKOTopbIX CJIY>I<~ y~eJIReTcs AoJEKHoe  BHHMaHHe B qeJI5lX o6ecneYeHna MaKCEïMaJIbHOii 3+~eKTHBHOCTYI Ei peHTa6eJIbHOCTn OCHOBHbIX  cny>~6. B sasepmenne o6cyxqenYtR 3~0ro lIyHKTa IIOBeCTKH AHSI, KOMHCCEIB PeKOMeHnOBaJIa  reHepa.lIbHOti KOH+epeHqHH IIpHHIITb K CBe/JeHHIo IIOIIpaBKH, BHeCeHHbIe B HpaBHJIa 0  nepcoHane, a 'rame 0~06ptrrb IIpoeKT pe3onIoqHH, KOTOpbIii HaXOflHTCSI B IIyHKTC 38.  EnaronapIo Bac.
(111.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Before 1 corne to the question of the staff, 1 should like to say that 1 have a total of four pages left, SO the  end is in sight.
(111.2) SO, then, item 11.1. When this question was being discussed, a representative of one of the staff  associations, in a statement during the discussion, expressed doubts as to the usefulness of the work of the Staff  Reports Board. The representative of the other staff association expressed the concern of staff on a number of  other issues, including: the impossibility for staff to obtain indeterminate contracts; the consequences of the  possible privatization of some UNESCO services; conditions of work; the situation of field staff in the absence of  a clear policy on staff rotation; the pension provision of some UNESCO retirees; the Medical Benefits Fund; and  also the period of jurisdiction of the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organization. ln his  reply, the representative of the Director-General emphasized that the administration maintained good relations  with the two staff associations. He indicated further that the simplification of certain existing administrative  procedures was desirable, that measures to promote decentralization and staff mobility were at present under  review, and that due attention was being paid to the privatization of certain services with a view to ensuring the  maximum efficiency and cost-effectiveness of essential services. At the conclusion of the discussion on this item,  the Commission recommended that the General Conference should take note of the amendments made to the Staff  Rules, and should approve the draft resolution contained in paragraph 38 of document 28 C/143. Thank you.
112.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Are there any comments on the recommendation contained in paragraph 38? If that is not  the case, 1 shah consider it adopted. It is SO decided. Thank you very much.
112.2 We now turn to item 11.2. Mr Joukov has the floor.  Item 11.2 - Staff salaries, aliowances and benetïts
113.1 r-~ XYKOB (PoccMficKasI @eAepannR, HpeAcenaTeJrb KOMHCCHII no a~MI.nnwrpaTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):
3acnyruaB BbICTyIIJIeHHe IIpe~CTaBH'IWDI OnHOii E13 accoqaaqw? nepcoaana, KOMHCCHR  npwryn~na K o6cy>KneHnIo 3TOrO IlyHKTa, B XOJJe KOTOpOrO OCHOBHOe BHHMaHHe 6brno yReneH0  BOJMOlKHOMy yBeJIEiYeHIno OKJIanoB B pe3ynbTaTe npeflcTos4wero perueamx l7eaepanbHoGi  AccaM6neH OpraHH3aqHH 06%eAHHeHHbIX Haqnfi H BOJMo>KHbIM IIocJIe~cTBHsIM 3~0ro peIIIeHnri  fln5r sepxnero npe~enbaoro YPOBHR 6roJrXe’ra na 1996-1997 rr. Hexoropbte nenerarbt sanarrn  BOIIpOC 0 TOM, RonXHa nu IOHECKO BbIIIoJnwrb peruewe, KacawweecR ysenwieHwI owra~on,  KoTopoe 6ypeT IIPHHRTO reHepanbHoii AccaMGneeM OOH. npe~waswrenb reHepaJIbHor0  nnpexropa yxa3an, YTO IIocKonbKy K>HECKO IIBJIZIeTCII YacTbIo o6meti CHCTeMbI, OHa noJI>KHa  BbInOJIHIITb COOTBeTCTByKNIJHe pemeH&frr KMI’C EI FeHepaJIbHOti AccaM6neM OOH.
113.2 HeKoTopbIe YJIeHbI KOMEICCHH BbIpa3&m y6exKeHHe, YTO nIo6bIe JJOIIOJIHHTeJIbHbIe  paCXOnb1, KOTOpbIe MOryT 6bITb CB83aHbI c yBenmYeHHeM OKJIa~oB, CnenyeT a6cop6mpoBaTb 3a  CYeT ~KOHOMEIH, nonyseaaoii B pe3ynbTaTe 6onee >KecTKoro ynpaBneHma. KOMHCCHII CorJIacwracb  C TeM, wo 3Ta Mepa He AOJIlKHa HMeTb OTpHqaTeJIbHbIX IIOCJIeJJCTBHii flJIH IIpOI'paMM H YTO
6anaHc Mexqy pacxo~ahln Ha nepcoaan, aJJMHHHC'I'paTHBHbIMH paCXO~aM&ï M IIpOI'paMMaMIl  c.nenyeT yJIyYIIIHTb n nonb3y nporpaMM. MHorne BeneraT cor~acmtncb c TeM, YTO  ,QOIIOJIHHTeJIbHbIe paCXonbI CnenyeT a6cop6npoBaTb B paMKax BepxHero rrpeRenbHor0 ypOBHR
6romxeTa. OJJHaKO IIpH 3TOM, Ha OCHOBe ORHoro H3 IIpe~no>KeHw%, 6bIna AocTEIrHyTa  flOrOBOpeHHOCTb 0 TOM, YTO B CJIyYae HeO6XO~IIMOCTH Ha 3TH qeJIH MOJKHO IIOJIHOCTbK> HJIH  YaCTHYHO IICIIOJIb30BaTb H3JIHIIIeK II0 qaCTH VII 6ronXeTa 3a ~ByXJICTHHfi IIepEIojJ 1994-1995 I-I-.  KOMHCCHSI npeAno>KIma HCKJIIOYHTb ~OIIOJIHHTeJIbHbIe CMeTbI, IIpenyCMOTpeHHbIe WR  +HHaHCHpOBaHHR BOSMOJKHOrO yBeJIHYeHH5I OKJIanOB EI yTOYHMTb, YTO 3TEI paCXOAb1 AOJDKHbI
683    FeHepanbHoro AHpeKTopa SaSIBHJI, YTO B OTCyTCTBHe RCHbIX yKa3aHdi B OTHOIUeHIIEI MacuITa6a  IIoTeH4IEIJIbHOrO yBeJInYeHIfs oKJIa,qoB H Hafl6aBoK IrepcoHany B 1996-1997 rr. HenoaMoXno  IrpegyrajqaTb, KaKHM o6pa3oM 3~0 yBennYeane MOrJIO 661 6bITb a6cop6npoBaHo B paMKax B  OCHOBHOM qaCTeti I,IV B VII, EI YTO HeJIb31I IzCKJIIoYIlTb B03MOWHOCTb CoK~aIQeH~fi HO YacTE% 11.
113.3 r-H rIpeAceAaTenb, COCTOSIJIOCb Tame o6cyqeHHe HO BOlIpOCy 0 TOM, nOJI>KeH JIH  reHepa.JIbHbIG RHpeKTOp IIpeflCTaBJIRTb klCIIOJIHHTeJIbHOMy COBe'Q' Ha er0 149-a CCXCMIX IXJIH Ha  nocne~yronprx ceccmx B xone AByxneTHero nepmona 1996-1997 rr. noznag o Mepax,  IIpHHaMaCMbIX C 4eJIbK? a6cop6npoBaHwI BOSMo>KHbIx pacxo~oB. B aax.rrronenne o6cyxc~enna
3TOr0 IIyHKTa IIOBCCTKII RHa KOMHCCHR peKoMeHnoBana reaepanbaofi KoH$epeH4nH D~EIHRT~  pe30nIoqaIo, KOTOpaR Coflep~ETcrr B IIyHKTe 39. B qeJmx COfleiiCTBEIR pea.nH3aqaH 3TOro  penreHnq nOCJIe KOHCyJIbTa4HII C HeKoTopbIMH YJreHaMH KOMHCC~H H CeKpeTapaaToM, 6bIno  npennoxeH0, 6e3 y4ep6a AJIR IIOZOlKeHHfi IIJIaHa II0311THBHOrO CTHMyJIHpOBaHHa CBOeBpeMeHHOii  BbIIIJIaTbI B3HOCOB, BKJIH3YEITb B KOH4e IIyHKTa 6 peILIeHEI5I cJIe~yKn4yIo +paJy, II qki~~py10:  "r@Uf 3TOM IIOHIIMaeTCR, YTO c ~TOI? qenbro B 1996-1997 rr. 6yAeT IrpEïocTaHoBneHo fleficTBHe  CTaTbH 4.3 rIonolKeHEi~ 0 *HHaHCaX". CeKpeTapHaT KOMEICCHB 61m IIposiH*opMmpoBaH 06 3mM
12 BHeCeT HeO6XO~HMbIe H3MeHeHHR. r-H npenCegaTeJIb, R XOYy IIOAYepKHyTb, UT0 peYb EneT 0  cyry6o TexHnYecKoii nonpaBKe. ISnaronapIo Bac.
(113.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Following a statement by the representative of one of the staff associations, the Commission discussed  this item, devoting most attention to the possible increase in salaries resulting from a forthcoming decision of the  United Nations General Assembly and to the possible effects of this decision on the 1996-1997 budget ceiling.  Some delegates questioned whether UNESCO was obliged to implement a decision respecting salary increases  adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. The representalive of the Director-General pointed out that  since UNESCO is part of the common system, it was obliged to implement decisions of the International Civil  Service Commission and the United Nations General Assembly in this regard.
(113.2) Some members of the Commission expressed their conviction that any additional costs wbich might  arise from an increase in salaries should be absorbed by savings achieved through tighter management. The  Commission agreed that this measure should not have adverse effects on programmes and that the balance  between personnel and administrative costs and programmes should be improved in favour of programmes. Many  delegates agreed that the additional costs should be absorbed within the budgetary ceiling. However, it was  agreed, on the basis of one proposal, that if necessary, a11 or part of the surplus under Part Vil of the budget for  the 1994-1995 biennium could be made available for this purpose. The Commission proposed excluding  supplementary estimates for the purpose of funding possible salary increases and specifying that these costs  should be mainly absorbed under Parts 1, IV and W of the budget. The representative of the Director-General  stated that in the absence of clear directives concerning the scale of a possible increase of staff salaries and  increments in 1996-1997, it was impossible to foretell how this increase could be mainly absorbed under Parts 1,  IV and VII, and that the possibility of reductions under Part Il could not be excluded.
(113.3) There was also discussion, Mr President, as to whether the Director-General should submit a report to  the Executive Board, at its 149th session or at subsequent sessions during the 1996-1997 biennium, on measures  to be taken to absorb possible costs. At the conclusion of the discussion on this item, the Commission  recommended for adoption by the General Conference the resolution appearing in paragraph 39 of document
28 C/143. TO enable this decision to take effect, and after consultation with some members of the Commission  and the Secretariat, it was suggested that, without prejudice to the provisions of the positive incentive scheme to  encourage prompt payment of contributions, the following phrase should be added at the end of paragraph 6 of the  decision: ‘it being understood that Financial Regulation 4.3 Will be suspended for this purpose during 1996.1997’.  The secretariat of the Commission has been informed and Will make the necessary changes accordingly. 1 should  like to stress, Mr President, that this amendment is of a purely technical nature.
114.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. If there are no objections, 1 shall take it that the draft resolution,  with the amendment just mentioned by Mr Joukov, which is of a purely technical nature, is adopted. It is SO  decided. Thank you.
114.2 We shah now turn to a question which has been discussed throughout the history of UNESCO, and  which Will be discussed as long as UNESCO is a living organism - namely, the geographical distribution of the  staff. You have the floor. Mr Joukov.
19  Item 11.3 - GeonraDhical distribution of staff, and imnlementation of the Medium-Term Overall Plan (1990-
1995) for the recruitment and renewal of the staff
0cyqecTsJrsIeT pa3nnYHbIe pe+opMbI Ei npeflIIpHHmMaeT aAMHHHCTpaTHBHbIe MepbI B paMKaX  ~OJIrOCpOYHOii KaJJpOBOii IIOJIHTHKH. 3TH MepbI HaYaJIM OCy~eCTBJIHTbCSI HegaBHO, EI II03TOMy J&Wl  HX AOJDKHOti 04eHKH Heo6xo~HMo BpeMR.
6onee C6aJIaHCHpOBaHHOii IIpeJJCTaBJIeHHOCTH >KeHIlJEIH cpexn COTpyJfHEIKOB KaTeropnn  CIIeIIWJIHCTOB.
115.4 JJpyroM ynen KOMIICCEIH npennowrn CeKpeTapMaTy YYZfTbIBaTb, KaK 3T0 AenaeTcH B  OpraHmsaqnn 06%eJJHHeHHbIX Haqm%, +aKTop nacenennx, Korfla yfl~mIhTcX cnqaqns c 06qnM  YHCJIOM ~OJDKHOCT~I?. 3~0 npeAnoxeHne nonAepwmkI qn npyrnx Unena KOMHCCHH.
115.5 KOMHCCHII sbIpa3nna Tame MHeHHe, ¶TO reHepmbHbI6 AHpeKTOp IIpH OCyweCTBJIeHHH  KaApOBO" IIOJIHTHKEI flOJI>KeH yYMTbIBaTb +HHaHCOBbIe IIOCJIeJJCTBHSI BCeX IIpMHHMaeMbIX peIUeHHti,  C TeM 9To6bI He nepepacxonoBaTb 6IoAxeTHbIe cpencTsa Ha nepcoaan, KaK 3~0 cnyswocb B
(115.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. Under this item, it was proposed that the Commission should take note of the  implementation of the personnel policy since the twenty-seventh session of the General Conference.
(115.2) A statement by the representative of one of the staff associations noted that since the introduction in
1994 of the system of promotion ‘on merit’, decisions regarding such promotion had been taken in respect of only a  very small number of staff members. A number of members of the Commission stressed the importance of human  resources management in international organizations such as UNESCO. Others referred to the Young  professionals’ programme and to the training programmes for national offïcials and departmental trainees, and  raised the question of equality between men and women within the Secretariat. The representative of the  Director-General mentioned that the Bureau of Personnel was carrying out various reforms and undertaking  administrative measures within the framework of a long-term personnel policy. These measures had only recently  begun to be implemented and therefore time was required for their proper evaluation.
(115.3) Several members of the Commission stressed the importance of affording the Director-General further  support, to enable him to continue his efforts to ensure a more balanced representation of women in the  Professional category of the staff.
(115.4) Another member of the Commission proposed that the Secretariat should take into account the  population factor when the situation of the total number of posts improved, as was done in the United Nations.  This request was supported by three other members of the Commission.
(115.5) The Commission also expressed the opinion that when the Director-General implemented the personnel  policy, he should take into account the financial implications of a11 decisions in order not to exceed the budget  provisions for personnel, as had happened in 1994.1995. Mr President, the draft decision on this item is  contained in paragraph 40 of document 28 C/143. Thank you.
116.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. There are two draft resolutions contained in paragraph 40. If there are no objections, 1  shah take it that they are adopted. It is SO decided. Thank you.
116.2 We Will now turn to item 11.4. Mr Joukov has the floor.  Item 11.4 - United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund: Report by the Director-General
(117) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. The Commission took note of the contents of the relevant report by the  Director-General (28 C/71) and decided to transmit the report to the General Conference for information. The  draft resolution is in paragraph 41 of document 28 CY143. Thank you.
118.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. May we take note of the information transmitted to us? It is SO decided.
118.2 We Will now look at item 11.5. You have the floor, Mr Joukov.  Item 11.5 - UNESCO Staff Pension Committee: Election of Member States’ renresentatives for 1996-1997
119. r-H XYKOB (PoccngcKaR <De~epaqmr, HpeRcenaTenb KOMHCCHH no a~MnHBcTpaTHBHb1M  BOIIpOCaM):  B COOTBeTCTBIIH CO CTaTbefi 6 (C) ~OJIOxeHHH O6'beflkIHeHHoro IIeHCHOHHOrO @JOH,IJa  nepcoaarra Oprannsaqmi 06lne~HHeHHbIX HaqnG reHepaJIbHOii KOH+epeHIJHH Ha&JIelKHT  Ha3HaWWb IIpenCTaBHTeJIefi B COCTaB neHCHOHHOr0 KOMHTeTa IIepCOHaJIa IOHECKO Ha JIepEOn C
1 HHBapR 1996 r. no 31 ,qeKa6pR 1997 r. KOMEICCEISI ono6pHna KaHArqaTypbI YerucKoii  Pecny6nHKu, Toro 12 ~H~oHesHm B KaUeCTBe 4JIeHOB KoMHTeTa H (DEIHJIIJH~~IBLI, TyHaca H  naHaMb1 - B Ka9eCTBe 3aMecTlfTenefi. HpoeKT pexIIeHEïH no ~TOMY BOIIpOCy B IIyHKTe 42, r-H  npencenaTeJrb. EinaroRapm Bac.
(119) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  In accordance with Article 6(c) of the Regulations of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, the  General Conference is required to appoint representatives to the UNESCO Staff Pension Committee for the  period 1 January 1996 to 31 December 1997. The Commission approved the choice of the Czech Republic, Togo  and Indonesia as members and of Finland, Tunisia and Panama as alternates. The draft resolution is contained in  paragraph 42 of document 28 C/143. Thank you, Mr President.
120.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. As you Will see from the composition of this group of six countries, the geographical  balance is there, as always. SO if there are no objections to the draft resolution contained in paragraph 42, 1  shall take it as adopted. It is SO decided.
120.2 Now we turn to item 11.6. Mr Joukov, once again, you have the floor.  Item 11.6 - Report bv the Director-General on the state of thc Medical Benetits Fund. and annointment of  Member States’ representatives to the Board of Management for 1996-1997
121. r-H >K~KOB (P OCCHtiCKa5I cf>eflepaqHzI, npeJJCeAaTeJIb KOMBCCEIH no aAMMHEWI'paTHBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  Bnaroflapro Bac. KOMHCCHR 6bIna aH+opMHpoBaHa 0 TOM, YTO KaMepyH Ei Luseqas  peKOMeHflOBaHb1 B Ka=IeCTBe Ha6Jno~aTeneI? B P~KOBO~RLI@I COBeT <DOHAa Ha JJByXJIeTHHti IIepHOJJ
199661997 rr. TI~oCKT pe3OJIIOqliH Ha 3Ty TeMy, r-H HpenCeRaTeJIb, HaXOAHTCR B IIyHKTe 43.  Bnaronapro Bac.
(121) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you. The Commission was informed that Cameroon and Sweden had been recommended as  observers on the Board of Management of the Fund for the 1996-1997 biennium. The draft resolution on this  topic, Mr President, is contained in paragraph 43 of document 28 C1143. Thank you.
122.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. May 1 take it that the resolution contained in paragraph 43 is adopted. It is SO decided.
122.2 And now we move to item 11.7. Mr Joukov, you have the floor.  Item 11.7 - Administrative Tribunal: Extension of its neriod of iurisdiction
(123.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  It was decided to recomrnend that the General Conference should adopt the resolution contained in  paragraph 44 of document 28 C1143.
(123.2) The representative of one of the staff associations asked me in her statement to point out in my oral  report that in the opinion of the association, the right of recourse to an independent tribunal was one of the  fundamental rights of international civil servants. The association therefore believed that the jurisdiction of the  Administrative Tribunal should be extended for the usual period of six years and not for two years as proposed by  the Director-General. Thank you, Mr President.
124. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Any comments or observations? No. 1 take it that the draft resolution contained  in paragraph 44 is adopted. It is adouted. We have now completed the items relating to staff questions, and we  now turn to the final and very limited though important Headquarters Questions. You have the floor, Sir.  Item 12.1 - Mandate of the Headauarters Committee  Item 12.2 - ReDort bv the Headauarters Committee  Item 12.3 - Report bv the Director-General on recommendations bv the Headquarters Committee with  substantial tïnancial imnlications, and report bv the Executive Board thereon  Item 12.4 - Uukeep and renovation of Headauarters buildings
125.1 r-H XYKOB (PoccnticKaR @eAepanns, IIpeAceAaTenb KOMEICCHEI no aAMHHHcTpaTEIBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  Bnarouapro Bac, r-n IIpeAceAaTenb. I+raK, rpynna BOII~OCOB, KacaKuqHxczI IIITa6-  KBapTHpbI. 3TO IIyHKTbI 12.1, 12.2, 12.3 M 12.4. Bce 3TH IIyHKTbI B CHJIy TOrO, 4TO OHH  B3aHMOCBR3aHb1, 06Cy>I<AaJIncb Ha COBMeCTHOii OCHOBe. HpeAceAaTeJIeM KoMHTeTa no IIITaFi-  KBapTHpe, nOCJIOM Hnrepa Ero ~peBOCXOAHTeJIbCTBOM r-HOM hklcaHoM 6brn IIpeACTaBJIeH  KOMHCCHM noJJpo6HbIii OweT 0 pagoTe, IIpoAeJIaHHoii KOMEITeTOM. KOMUCCHR 6bIna TaKJKe  IIpOlIH+OpMHpOBaHa 06 EiHHqMaTHBe KoMIiTeTa, KacaIo~eiicR IIpH3bIBa BHoCHT~ JJo6poBoJIbHbIe  BJHOCbI II0 CJIyuaKl IIWI'I4~eWI'Oii rOAOBwEIHb1 OpraHH3aIJHH.
125.2 MHorHe AeneraTbI BbICKa3aJIH 6naroAapHocTb npeAceAaTenIo KoMnTeTa II0 LUTa6-  KBapTEpe 3a IIpOAeJIaHHyIO ycnenIHyI0 pa6oTy, a TaKlKe Ee ~peBocxoAHTeJIbcTBy r--Xe CoIle
687    MeHAbeTa Ae EaAepy 3a ee HeyCTaHHbIe yCHJII%H B CBII3H C 3THM lIpH3bIBOM. AeJIeraTbI yAeJIHJlI4
6onbruoe BHEIMaHHe BOIIpOCaM 3aAOJI>KeHHOCTeI? B BbIIIJIaTe apeHAHOI? IIJIaTbI Il IIJIaTexeii 3a  yCJIyrI%, KOTOpbIMH IIOJIb30BânHCb HeKOTOpbIe AeJIeraqHH. KOMHCCHR IIOA¶epKHyJIa HaCTORTeJIbHyH)  HeO6XOAHMOCTb CBOeBpeMeHHOrO BHeCeHHZI IIJIaTe>Kek. EbIJIa TaK>Ke 3aTpoHyTa npo6neMa  CJIy>r<e6HbIX rIoMeIqeHFïii B pe3yJIbTaTe pawyqero WwIa rocyAapcTB-WfeHoB, a TaK>Ke IIpoGJIeMa  Ha.nwiHII KoH+epeHq-sa-nos Anz Aeneraqafi. B 3aBepnIeHHe AHCK~CCHH KOMEICCEIII peKoMeHAoBana  reHepaAbHOki KOH@epeHqHE IlpnHWI'b ABe pe30nIoqnn, KoTopbIe coAepxaTcR B naparpa+e 45  AoKyMeHTa, HaxoAsuqerocH nepen BaMIf. EnaroAapH> Bac.
(125.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. We now corne to a group of questions concerning Headquarters; these are  items 12.1, 12.2, 12.3 and 12.4. Al1 these items are interrelated and for this reason they were a11 discussed  jointly. The Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, H.E. Mr Misan, the Ambassador of Niger, provided the  Commission with a detailed account of the work performed by the Committee. The Commission was also briefed  on the initiative taken by the Committee concerning the appeal for voluntary contributions on the occasion of the  fïftieth anniversary of the Organization.
(125.2) A number of delegates thanked the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee for the successful  performance of its work and H.E. MS Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux for her unflagging efforts on behalf of this  appeal. Delegates devoted considerable attention to questions concerning arrears in payment of rent and payments  for services provided to some delegations. The Commission stressed the urgent necessity of making punctual  payments. The problem of office space as a result of the growing number of Member States was also raised, and  the problem of the availability of meeting rooms for delegations. At the end of the discussion, the Commission  recommended that the General Conference should adopt the two resolutions appearing in paragraph 45 of  document 28 U143.
126.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov. If there are no objections, 1 shall take it that the two draft  resolutions contained in paragraph 45 of document 28 C/l43 are adopted. It is SO decided
126.2 That concludes the Report on the Administrative Commission of specific items, and 1 shall give the  floor to Mr Joukov for concluding remarks of a more general nature. You have the floor, Sir.
127.1 r-H >KYKOB (PoccHficKaa @eAepaqHI-r, HpeAceAaTenb KOMHCCHH no a~MIïHmcTpaTmBHbIM  BOIIpOCaM):  %IarOAapIO Bac, r-H HpeACeAaTeJIb. 2 XOTeJI 661 3aBepIIIHTb MOe BbICTyIIJIeHHe CJIOBaMPI
6JIarOAapHOCTH B aApeC BCeX TeX, KTO BHeC BKJIaA B IIJIOAOTBOpHOe 3aBepLIIeHHe pa6oTbI  KOMHCCIIH II0 aAMHHHCTpaTHBHbIM BOIIpOCaM. B IIepByIo osepeflb, AeneraqrwM rocyAapcTB-  WceHOB, KOTOpbIe IIOSBOJIHJIE KOMMCCHII BOCIIOJIb30BaTbCII HX OqeHKOfi H IIpO~eCCEIOHaJIbHbIMH
3HaHBRMH. HaM yAaJrOCb 3a KOpOTKOe BpeMR 06CyAHTb BCH) IIOBeCTKy AHSI, 6naroAapa  COTpyAHWIeCTBy II B3aHMOlIOHMMaHEH0, cyrqecmyroqeMy MexAY UJIeHaMH KOMHCCHH.  ECTeCTBeHHbIM pe3yJIbTaTOM 3TOrO 6brno H TO, 9TO HaM He IIpHIIIJIOCb IIpH6eraTb K  rOJIOCOBaHHIo, TaK KaK BCe pe3OJIIO~HH 6bIm ~I~EIHRT~I Ha OCHOBe KoHceHcyca. Tame  IIOJIe3HbIMH AJlR HaC 6brnn IICHbIe H YeTKHe peKOMeHAa@fH, IIOJIyYeHHbIe OT MCIIOJIHHTeJIbHOrO  COBeTa.
127.2 r-H npeAceAaTenb, MOR KOMEICCHR HEïKorAa He CMorJIa 6bI IIPOABHH~T~CH BIIepeA 6es  HeO6XOAHMOI? IIOMOWH, IIOJIy4eHHOii OT IIpeACTaBHTeJIR reHepaJIbHOr0 AHpeKTOpa r-Ha TaHaKa,  OH HaXOAHTCSI B 3~0~ 3a.ne, ero KoHHer, r-Ha l?yflnHHa-AHaca, AHpeKTopa Bropo 6IoJPKeTa, r-  XE XHpoIxm, AYrpeKTOpa Bropo nepcoaana, r-Ha AenH, GiHaHcoHoro KoHTponepa H  CeKpeTapaaTa B qenoM. Tenepb, r-H npeACeAaTeJIb, HeCKOJIbKO CJIOB 0 TOM, KTO BO MHOrOM  o6nerwn MOIO sa,qasy. R UMeIo B BHA~ Moero Konnery II Aox.JiaAsHKa, r-Ha XyaHa IIoppaca  CyHHry ~3 AeJIeraqIïH KocTa-PBKH, OH BcerAa 6mx ~R~OM CO MHO& 5% JaMecTHTeJIeti  LIpeAceAaTenz KOMHCCHIL Oc060 xoTe.n 6bI no6naroAapa’rb CeKpeTapmaT KOMHCCHII, KOTopbIti  B03rJIaBJlRJI BeCbMa KOMIIeTeHTHbIti r-H mHJI, II, r-H flpeACeAaTeJIb H r-H FeHepaJIbHbIii  AHpeKTOp, oc060 XOTeJI 6~ OTMeTHTb TpyAoJIH36EIBbIX II IIpeKpacHbIx >KeHIqHH, KOTOpbIe BXOAHJIH  B CeKpeTapHaT KOMHCCIIH. BOJDKeH o6paTIrrb Bame BHHMaHlle, 9T0, C IIpaBOii CTOpOHbI, Ha
6aJIKoHe, CIfASIT KâK pa3 3Tll IIpeKpaCHbIe >KeHwHHbI, KOTOpbIe 3acJIy>I<ISJIH HaIIly 6naroAapHocTb.  Mory JIH Ii Tame BbICKa3aTb MOK> HCKpeHHIOIO 6JIarOAapHOCTb BCeM TeM, KTO IIOMOIYLJI HaM 3â  cqeaoti, oco6eHHo yCTHbIM H IIEICbMeHHbIM IIepeBOAWfKaM, 9bEI 3aAaW HHKOMM o6pa3oM He
(127.1) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to conclude my statement with some words of thanks to a11 those  who contributed to the fruitful conclusion of the deliberations of the Administrative Commission. In the fïrst place  there are the delegations of Member States who allowed the Commission to make use of their appraisals and  professional competence. We were able to complete discussion of the agenda within a short time thanks to the co-  operation and mutual understanding which existed between the members of the Commission. The natural result  of this was that we never had to resort to a vote, as a11 resolutions adopted by the Commission were adopted by  consensus. Equally helpful to us were the clear and unequivocal recommendations which we received from the  Executive Board.
(127.2) Mr President, my Commission would also never have been able to make progress without the vital  assistance it received from the representative of the Director-General, Mr Tanaka ADG/MA, who is present in  this room, and his colleagues, Mr Goodwin-Diaz, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, MS Hirose, the  Director of the Bureau of Personnel, Mr Daly, the Comptroller, and the Secretariat as a whole. Now,  Mr President, a few words concerning those who made my task SO much easier. 1 refer to my colleague the  Rapporteur, Mr Juan Porras Zuiïiga, of the delegation of Costa Rica, who was constantly at my side, and to the  Vice-Chairpersons of the Commission. 1 should like especially to thank the secretariat of the Commission, headed  by the ever-competent Mr Shill. 1 must also, Mr President and Mr Director-General, make particular mention of  the beautiful and hard-working ladies who were members of the Commission secretariat. 1 should also mention  that these same beautiful ladies, who have earned our gratitude, are now sitting on the right-hand side of the  balcony. May 1 also express my sincere thanks to a11 those who served us behind the scenes, especially the  interpreters and translators, whose tasks were in no way simplified by the often purely technical nature of our  deliberations and decisions. Thank you, Mr President.
128. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Joukov, and thank you once again for the immense amount of work you  have put into chairing the Administrative Commission, Australia is asking for the floor.
129. Mr BROWN (Australia):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 simply had an editorial request. 1 noticed that in the Report of the  Administrative Commission there are no references to the countries proposing or supporting draft resolutions.  With special reference to those in paragraphs 11 and 12,I wondered whether, consistent with the practice in  the reports of the other commissions, the countries responsible for those draft resolutions could be mentioned in  the final version of this Report. Thank you.
130. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for this. Obviously you are correct in finding out that this does not correspond to the  practice in the Programme Commissions. Would you take the floor, Mr Joukov?
131. f’--~ XYKOB (PoccnficKax @eflepannx, ffpeAceAaTenb KOMHCCHH no a~MnH&ïcTpaTnBHbIM  BOnpOCaM);
2 AyMaro, YTO y HaC He 6yReT TpyQHOCTeti, 4T06bI MbI J’IIOMHHJ’JIH, KTO COaBTOpbI IiTEM  IIpOeKTOB pe3OJIIOnuii. ECJIEI 3Ta npocb6a ZiBCTpaJIHtiCKOfi neneraqun, To, HaBepHoe, T-H  yBaxaeMbrii ~oK.na~snK cnenaeT cooTseTcTsyromne mcnpaBneHnx. Enaro~apm Bac.
(131) Mr JOUKOV (Russian Federation), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission (Translation from  the Russian):
1 think that we shall have no difficulty in mentioning who are the co-authors of these draft resolutions. If  this is a request by the Australian delegation, our respected Rapporteur Will probably make the appropriate  corrections. Thank you.
132.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. That Will be done. And as we conclude, let me say that we have had a prime  example of the working style of Mr Joukov - always attentive, always a man of dialogue, which has been very  necessary in order to chair for the second time the very complex matters and the very diversified discussions of  the Administrative Commission. SO 1 want, on behalf of the General Conference, to thank you most warmly,  Mr Joukov, for having taken this task upon yourself once more.
132.2 And with that, today’s work is ended. In a few minutes there Will be a special ceremony in this hall to  mark the fïftieth anniversary of the end of the Second World War. But mis Will be a special ceremony, SO for  that reason 1 Will now declare the meeting adjourned. We shall meet again in plenary tomorrow moming at
10 a.m.  La séance est levée a 18 h.25  The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.25