Première séance plénière extraordinaire
6 novembre 1995 à 15 h.05  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  First special plenary meeting
6 November 1995 at 3.5 p.m.  President: Mr KROGH (Denmark)  Primera sesion plenaria extraordinaria
6 ~0x6~~ 1995 r. B 15.05  npencenaTenb: T-H KPOT (AaHux)    HOMMAGE A LA MEMOIRE DU PREMIER MINISTRE D’ISRAEL, M. YITZI-IAK RABIN  TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MR YITZHAK RABIN, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL  HOMENAJE En MEMORIA DEL PRIMER MINISTRO DE ISRAEL, SR. YITZHAK RABIN
3ACEJIAHI/IE, IIOCB%IIIEHHOE IIAMHTM I-HA IITlJXAKA PAEMHA,  IIPEMbEP-MMHMCTPA W3PAMJIg  ;rUI, &d/ +Jl cJ&lpdI 'I,jJ &J &JS& ôdb!  #,&2&3$‘2.3!i! YITZHAK RABIN %!&
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  May 1 invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to be seated.
1.2 Al1 of you know why this special plenary meeting of the General Conference has been called
1.3 Once more our world has been bereaved of one of its outstanding and courageous leaders.
1.4 Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel has been brutally assassinated because he was untiring and  persistent in his quest for peace. This horrendous act took place on Saturday night, just after he had addressed a  mass rally, called to support the peace process between Israel and its Arab neighbours. One hundred thousand  Israelis had turned out for this manifestation of peace and reconciliation.
1.5 On this occasion, Mr Yitzhak Rabin gave a brief interview to an Israeli radio station. In his statement,  the Prime Minister emphasized that this was a manifestation called to underscore the fact that the majority of  the people are in favour of peace and, above all, against violence.
1.6 These words were to be his last. A few moments later he fell victim to the forces which are using  extreme violence in their vicious attempts to prevent peace. Yitzhak Rabin was killed by those of his  countrymen who seek confrontation instead of conciliation, those who preach hatred instead of tolerance, those  who try to instil fear instead of hope in the minds of men and women.
1.7 Abhorrent as this act is, it is at the same time a challenge to a11 of us. Violence, even in its most  extreme and vicious forms, must not lead to fearful submission or retreat. On the contrary, the solemn  responsibility of the world community is to further intensify its efforts to support and encourage the peace  process between peoples of the Middle East.
1.8 Fanaticism has killed Mr Rabin. Fanaticism wished to assassinate peace. In vain. Because fanaticism  cari neither divert the stream of history nor damage the process of peace, accomplished in facts that provide  evidence that nothing Will be as it was before.
1.9 In 1993, Yitzhak Rabin’s commitment to reconciliation and the bringing together of people, in a  delicate context, earned him the Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize.
1.10 The terrible tragedy on Saturday night is a stark reminder to a11 of us that the quest for peace is, in  itself, an ongoing struggle which is bound to meet with severe obstructions on the part of a11 those whose  perception of the world is dominated by the poisonous blend of fear, prejudice, arrogance and cynicism. In such  circumstances, we must redouble our efforts to develop a world community which is based on trust,  understanding, solidarity and mutual respect.
1.11 For the leaders of this world and its nations, it requires much greater courage to seek peace and  reconciliation than to declare and conduct wars. In recent years we have seen, in different parts of the world,  the most significant expressions of such courage. Yitzhak Rabin was one of the shining examples. He himself,  his family and those close to him, the Israeli people, their neighbours and all peace-loving people of the world  have now paid the ultimate price of this courage to replace war and conflict with conciliation and a common  quest for peace.
1.12 On behalf of the General Conference and in my persona1 capacity, 1 wish to express to Mr Rabin’s wife  and family and to the Israeli people our profound emotion and our sincere condolences. 1 wish to assure them of  UNESCO’s solidarity and fratemity.
1.13 1 shall now give the floor to Mr Henri Lopes, Assistant Director-General for External Relations, to  read out a message from the Director-General, who is in Israel today to attend Prime Minister Rabin? funeral.
2.1 M. LOPES, sous-directeur général pour les relations extérieures:  Monsieur le President de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la  paix est aujourd’hui en deuil. L’assassinat du Premier ministre Yitzhak Rabin, lauréat du Prix Félix Houphouët-  Boigny pour la recherche de la paix et du Prix Nobel de la paix, a fait de ce combattant infatigable de la paix  l’incarnation de celle-ci. Il venait en effet de presider à Tel-Aviv un grand rassemblement en faveur du  processus de paix au Proche-Orient. Il est particulièrement significatif que ses derniers mots aient été : “J’ai  toujours été persuadé qu’une majorité de gens veulent la paix et qu’ils sont prêts à prendre des risques pour  elle.”
2.2 C’est pour “élever les défenses de la paix dans l’esprit des hommes” qu’a éte créee l’UNESCO. Aussi  chaque fois qu’un être humain est sacrifié pour la paix est-ce également l’UNESCO qu’on vise. C’est pourquoi  nous sommes aujourd’hui en deuil. Vous êtes reunis ici pour confirmer votre engagement au service de la paix  dont l’UNESCO devra se faire plus que jamais l’avocat et l’acteur dans le monde.
2.3 Samedi, jour du sabbat, jour du Seigneur pour le peuple juif, a éte profané. C’est la haine qui s’est  manifestée de façon odieuse, défiant tout entendement. Comment en effet interpréter le geste d’un individu qui  fréquente une université confessionnelle et dont la religion a pour premier principe moral : “Tu ne tueras  point”. Quelle désespérante distorsion du message d’amour, de compassion et de tolérance ! Cela nous montre,  Mesdames et Messieurs, l’ampleur des efforts qu’il faudra déployer pour que prévale la culture de la paix et  pour que soit retrouvée l’essence du message de tolérance, propre à toutes les religions et à toutes les cultures,  mais trop souvent occulté ou obscurci par la haine, la rancoeur ou la vengeance. Il faut semer sans cesse  l’amour et la compréhension dès l’École, dès l’enfance, dès la crèche ! 11 nous faut désormais redoubler d’efforts.
2.4 La très grande majorite du peuple d’Israël, le gouvernement de cet Etat membre, tous les responsables  du monde, et sans doute l’immense majorité de leurs peuples, ont déjà fait savoir que ce tragique Événement ne  devait pas nous faire devier du chemin de la paix. En d’autres circonstances aussi penibles, celui qui assure  aujourd’hui la présidence du gouvernement israélien, M. Shimon Peres, qui a associé son nom à celui d’Yitzhak  Rabin dans le combat pour la paix, avait coutume de dire : “Il faut serrer les dents et continuer”.
2.5 Oui, la paix est aujourd’hui en deuil. L’un de ses plus fervents défenseurs vient de disparaître. Mais, en  dépit de la grande tristesse qui nous étreint, la meilleure façon d’honorer la mémoire d’Yitzhak Rabin est de  poursuivre son combat et d’appuyer la détermination de tous ceux qui luttent pour l’instauration dune culture de  la paix au Moyen-Orient et dans le monde.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Lopes. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has left a legacy which it is the sacred  duty of a11 of us to protect and to develop. This is the legacy of courage on behalf of tolerance and non-violence.  In memory of Yitzhak Rabin and in our common commitment to this legacy 1 cal1 upon the General Conference  to observe one minutes silence.  (The Conference observes one minutes silence)
1 now invite His Excellency the Ambassador of Israel to corne to the rostrum.
4.1 Mr SHOKET, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Israel to UNESCO:  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in Israel are still in a state of grief and disbelief following the  tragic death of our Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, a soldier of peace.
4.2 For the past half-Century, this prominent leader has fought for the survival and independence of the  State of Israel.
4.3 In recent years, he has dedicated his life to the cause of peace. On 13 September 1993, when Rabin  signed the peace agreement with Chairman Arafat he tumed a page in the history of our region and opened the  way to a future of peace and progress in the Middle East.
4.4 Rabin was not talented in music and whenever he was asked to sing he would decline. This past  Saturday night, at the rally for peace in Tel-Aviv, he agreed and joined the thousands of people around him in  singing a song of peace. When the song was finished, he folded the text and put it in his pocket. A few minutes  later, that paper was pierced by the same bullet that took his life.
4.5 But the song of peace of Yitzhak Rabin Will not end. He has embarked Israel on an irreversible peace  process - despite ail the difficulties we may encounter.
4.6 Never before was the menace of extremism SO perilous, never before were the moderate forces of the  Middle East on both sides closer to an understanding than today. Both Arabs and Israelis cari be at peace with  themselves only if they reach peace with each other. Yes, we are still paying the heavy toll of the region’s  turmoil. The flames cari be further fuelled. They cari also be extinguished. Our actions today cari either unleash  forces of yet untold destruction or they cari launch us on a course of new promise.
4.7 We remember the last words of Moses before parting with his people at the gate of the Promised Land.  He admitted his inability to provide them with adequate clothing and fresh bread and offered them the right of  choice.  ‘1 have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life. That both  thou and thy seed may live.’ (Deuteronomy, 30 19)
4.8 Allow me, Mr President, to quote from a speech delivered by Prime Minister Rabin here in Paris on  the award of the 1993 Felix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize to Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres and Yaser Arafat  on 6 July 1994. He said:  ‘From now on, the making of peace is not a matter for spotlights, for elegant halls, and bal1  gowns. From now on, the baking sun in Jericho and Na’Ama, in Khan Yunis and Netzer Hazani, Will  replace the spotlights in Washington, Cairo and Paris. The handshakes on the lawn in Washington, on  the stage in Cairo and here in Paris must be repeated by the residents of Gaza and Ashkelon, of Jericho  and Malale Adumim. What we have acknowledged here in this beautiful setting in Paris, must be  transferred to the markets in Gaza, where Israelis Will buy fruit from Palestinian vendors.  Peace Will be tasted in the Palestinian coffee poured into the cups of Israeli friends. It Will be  heard in the applause of Israeli audiences for the performance of a Palestinian theatre troupe, and in  the cheers of the rival soccer fans when Khan Yunis plays against Tel Aviv.  Peace Will be seen when an Israeli driver yields the right of way to his Palestinian  counterpart - and vice versa; when a Palestinian policeman gives a ticket to an Israeli driver - and the  other way around. Peace lies in the grin of an Israeli doctor delivering a Palestinian new-born baby,  and in the smile of a Palestinian lifeguard to Israeli bathers on the beach. That, ladies and gentlemen,  is peace.  We are going along slowly and cautiously, one step at a time, because the enemies of peace  are even more numerous than we imagined. Because extremists on both sides are lying in wait for us,  and we - Israelis and Palestinians, alike - must not fail. At every step, we must think, consider, weigh,  check, and beware.  We are in a hurry because we have waited over a hundred years for this day, in Gaza and  Jerusalem, in Jericho and Netanya, in Ratïah and Rosh Pinah.  We are in a hurry to spare another Israeli mother weeping tears of pain and another  Palestinian mother from shedding bitter sobs.’
4.9 Mr President, the essence of the legacy of Prime Minister Rabin is peace and its culture which is also  the basic tenet of UNESCO. We believe that this Organization cari play a prominent role in enhancing it in our  region. Prime Minister Rabin has shown the way.
4.10 Mr President, 1 wish to take this opportunity to thank the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Federico  Mayor, for his gesture in going to Jerusalem to attend the funeral of Prime Minister Rabin. At the same time  the Director-General has blessed the idea of dedicating the Square of Tolerance, the sculpture garden created by  the Israeli artist Dany Karavan and donated by Israel to UNESCO - of dedicating it to the memory of Yitzhak  Rabin. Thank you.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency. We shah now watch a short extract of the video of the ceremony when  Mr Rabin was awarded the Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize for 1993.
512    IISP  (The video is shown)
5.2 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, a prerequisite for tolerance among individuals, peoples and nations is  knowledge and a prerequisite for knowledge is education. In this very hall, the Commission entrusted with the  elaboration of UNESCO’s educational programmes began its deliberations this morning. The extreme  importance of this work is obvious to all of us. It is at this very fundamental level that peaceful weapons are  created which should silence the weapons of violence for ever. 1 would like to wish the Commission a11 the best  in its endeavours to further strengthen and enrich our common efforts to develop global education based on  mutual respect, tolerance and peace in the minds of men and women. 1 hereby declare this special plenary  meeting of the General Conference closed.  La séance est levée à 15 h.30  The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 15.30