Vingt et unième séance plénière
14 novembre 1995 à 15 h.10  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Twenty-first plenary meeting
14 Hosops 1995 r. B 15.10  npeJKenaTenb: T-H KPOT (AaHux)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, we Will resume ouf work by welcoming  Professor Muhammad Yunus, Managing Director of the Grameen Bank. Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would like, on behalf of the General Conference, to extend a most warm  welcome to Professor Yunus who has been one of the most imaginative and innovative personalities in the field  of finding new ways to operate in the development fïeld, notably in the form of the Grameen Bank.
1.2 The Grameen Bank, Professor Yunus, that you preside over shows how today it is possible to find  last.ing solutions to the problem of eradicating poverty and consequently to help promote social and economic  development without forgetting the human factor - or, rather, by putting the human factor at the very centre of  the action. Through loans and grass-roots initiatives, your bank has inspired confidence and, little by little, has  fostered indispensable development actions such as basic education, and the participation of women in the  decision-making process. These efforts are still growing. Also, it does show that, even though poverty cannot be  eradicated its effects cari at least be diminished and that, step by step, a true development process cari be  initiated.
1.3 In March this year, you declared in this house, at UNESCO, that your role is ‘not SO much as a “doer”  but as a preacher’. Please be assured that with regard to the work we know about concerning the Grameen  Bank, it is certainly also as a ‘doer’ you are here. But, whether as a doer or a preacher, and the two things are  often closely linked, please be assured of the support of UNESCO and of the international community of  Member States of UNESCO, in this important task, which we know is both arduous and at the same time  exemplary.
1.4 1 Will now give the floor to the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, with whom you have, 1 know,  already co-operated very closely. You have the floor, Mr Mayor.
2.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, 1 would only like to echo what you have already said. For us, the fïrst visit of  Professor Yunus was extremely important because we were able to explore new modalities of action, and to ask  ourselves how we may better achieve our targets.
2.2 We have two targets. One is to include the excluded. The other is to reach those who bave been  unreached until now. And when we talk of including the excluded, we have corne to realize that the people in  question are not only those who are excluded for economic reasons. They are also excluded for geographical,  cultural, political and educational reasons.
2.3 It is very important to remember that as long as we continued to equate education with forma1  schooling, we imagined that many people, particularly women, were condemned from the very beginning to  remain outside the mainstream of education because they were living in very dispersed human settlements.  Hence, the second of our targets: to reach the SO far-unreached; and today we indeed have the possibility of  doing this - through telecommunications and with the high-technology that permits us to envisage the  possibility of placing audio-visual systems at the service of these dispersed human settlements through solar  panels or other energy resources.
2.4 But the problem that Professor Yunus outlined to us when he first came here involved more than this.  He explained that only with empowerment, only with self-confidence, cari those outside the mainstream  materialize for themselves the possibility of becoming full citizens; and that only in this way Will we be able to  conquer poverty. This was his lesson: that poverty is much more than a matter of economics.
2.5 Poverty is a feeling - a profound sense of marginalization, of exclusion. And with your very impressive  and original initiatives, Professor Yunus, you have been able to overcome - not only from the economic point of  view, but also from the moral point of view, and through feelings of self-reliance - the poverty of SO many  people who today, because of the system you have established, are no longer trapped on the edge of the river.
2.6 At the same time - and this is a good thing, too - with the overcoming of their poverty some of these  people become impowered; and when they become imnowered they facilitate the imnowerment of the others. AS
1 emphasized in my intervention in Beijing, empowerment means conferring capacities, securing access and  making available facilities to those who lack them. Impowerment, on the other hand, signifies the possibility  for people to become members of their community - full members because they cari particinate, they cari  influence their own destinv.
2.7 Because of a11 this, Professor Yunus, this is a very, very important moment and an honour. We are  very happy that you cari be here with us again to talk about these ‘micro-credits’, these ‘micro-loans’. Because  what matters - and on this we are already agreed - is not SO much the macro-economic as the micro-economic  matters: these are what really affect each single human being. Therefore, 1 would like to reiterate the happiness
1 felt on signing our Agreement with the Grameen Bank in Beijing, and to add that 1 am also happy today  because 1 have just been talking with the Assistant Director-General for Education, Mr Power, and 1 know that  our agreement is already becoming a reality, and that before long, millions of people, particularly women, Will  be able to enjoy the benefits of literacy, thanks to your very interesting undertaking. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is now  my great pleasure to invite Professor Muhammad Yunus, Managing Director of the Grameen Bank, to address  the plenary. You have the floor, Professor Yunus.
4.1 Professor YUNUS (Bangladesh), Managing Director, The Grameen Bank:  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your kind  words, of introduction to me and to my organization, and your kind reference to my last visit. Thank you to a11  the Members of the General Conference. It is a great honour for me to be invited to address the General  Conference of UNESCO. 1 thank you, Mr President, for giving me this honour.
4.2 1 wish to share with you a few thoughts about the situation of poverty and what we cari do about it. 1  am encouraged to talk about this issue because of UNBSCO’s declared intention to fïght poverty through its  programmes.
4.3 Over a billion people around the world continue to suffer from the misery of poverty. We are told that  this number is increasing, not decreasing. We continue to respond to the issue of poverty and hunger in the  same way as we did a Century ago. We offer the poor handouts and relief and we did exactly that a Century ago.  The biggest single innovation we have made in this effort is to invent the word ‘safety-net’, to replace the word  ‘relief.
4.4 We are amazed by the speed at which our knowledge is expanding in some areas. This unprecedented  rate of expansion happens because we are interested in those areas. Our desire for knowledge remains paralysed  in areas where our interest is at the level of indifference. Designing new concepts and institutions to tope with  human issues like the alleviation of poverty and hunger, ensuring human dignity for a11 members of human  society falls into this category of knowledge.
4.5 The prime responsibility of human civilization should be ensuring human dignity for each and every  member of society. But looking at the condition of the poor around the world, we cannot say that we have  accepted this responsibility with any seriousness.
4.6 Poverty is not created by the poor. Nor is it sustained by them. The roots of poverty cari be found in our  institutions, concepts and theoretical frameworks.
4.7 If we take one institution to illustrate this point, 1 think we Will have plenty of food for thought. In an  economy where money is the ‘open sesame’ for any economic action, a11 we could corne up with was financial  institutions based on collateral. The underlying principle of all our financial institutions is universally accepted  and taken for granted. It says: the more you have, the more you cari get; if you dont have anything, you don?  get anything. That is it. If you happen to belong to the second category of people, you have almost no chance of  starting on your own. You must look for somebody who Will hire you.
4.8 None of us like a caste system in any form, anywhere. Nobody should suffer for his/her condition at the  start of his/her life. But tinancial institutions have created a worldwide caste system without anybody being  horrifïed by it. If you don? have collateral you are not creditworthy, Le. you are an untouchable.
4.9 The Grameen Bank challenged this caste system - because we felt that access to money is essential to  move out of poverty, to unfold one’s own potential, to become an active economic agent, to establish one’s own  human dignity. My efforts started out of my frustrations with the prevailing economic prescriptions for poverty  alleviation - which 1 found to be very negative. Al1 they cari corne up with are safety-net programmes. 1 cannot  see how these cari be poverty alleviation programmes. These are only programmes to keep the poor physically  alive.
4.10 We tried something different. We dared to give the poorest people bank credit. We included destitute  women who had never in their lives even touched any money. We defmd the rules. At each step, everybody  shouted at us: ‘you are wasting your money; it Will never corne back; even if it is working now, it Will collapse  in no time; it Will explode into pieces’.
4.11 Grameen neither exploded nor disappeared. It expanded and reached more and more people. Today,
19 years later, after starting in a small village giving $1 loans, it services over two million borrowers, 94 per  cent of whom are women. It works in 35,000 villages of Bangladesh - that is, over half of the total number of  villages in Bangladesh.
4.12 Grameen lends out over US $35 million worth of Bangladeshi currency each month in tiny loans  which average $140. Its repayment rate, 98 per cent, is the envy of many top banks around the world. Grameen  offers housing loans, between US $300 to US $600 each, to build a decent tin-roof house with a sanitary latrine.  Grameen has given housing loans to build more than 350,000 houses, with a repayment rate of nearly 100 per  cent.
4.13 Now, how do we answer questions like: ‘Are the poor creditworthy? Are the poor “untouchables”?‘.  With Grameen’s experience, the answers are very clear. Not only are the poor not ‘untouchables’ - they are  ‘huggables’. They are not only creditworthy, in many countries they are more creditworthy than the non-poor.
4.14 Will our thinking about the poor and poverty change because two million poor people have  painstakingly demonstrated every day of the year for the last several years that they cari borrow money and  change their lives? Shall we continue to accept that poverty and hunger as something that we cari only  sympathize with and through our best efforts, touch only marginally?
4.15 Grameen Bank has relied on the creativity of the poor to generate income and employment for  themselves. Grameen’s tiny loans have helped the poor to invest in micro-enterprises (such as keeping poultry  and livestock, trading in small amounts, funding traditional crafts such as weaving, pottery, etc.). Such home-  based micro-enterprises have allowed the poor the freedom to live in their own villages, to make their own  decisions, and to be self-employed with dignity, rather than seeking wage employment in urban industrial  areas. Credit for micro-enterprises has therefore paved the way for development with a human face,  development that not only directly benefïts the poor, but also development that avoids the costs of urbanization  and the alienation of the factory system.
4.16 1 have corne to believe that the alleviation of poverty is a matter of Will. If poverty is unacceptable to  a11 of us, it cari be removed once and for a11 from the surface of the earth. We cari make the next Century the last  Century for poverty to exist on this planet. By the time the twenty-fïrst Century approaches its mid-point, the  world Will be able to look back and think about the scourge of poverty and hunger as something of the distant  past, as we do now about the plagues which raged during the Middle Ages. After that point in time, the only  place where poverty cari be found Will be the museums. Maybe our great grandchildren Will go to these  museums to see what poverty was like. They Will feel anguished because their ancestors were too insensitive  and indifferent to SO many people, to let them go through the misery and indignity of poverty for SO many  centuries.
4.17 The impact of Grameen’s credit programme has been intensively researched by many organizations.  Al1 corne up with highly positive findings. Grameen borrowers have steadily increased their income. They start  crossing the poverty line by the tïfth year of their membership in Grameen Bank. One third of Grameen  borrowers have already crossed the poverty line. Grameen is working hard to see that a11 of the 2 million  families who are with Grameen now, cross the poverty line by the year 2000.
4.18 Grameen borrowers are mostly illiterate. That slows down their capacity to bring changes in their  economic and social situation. We have requested UNESCO to help us design and implement a basic education
21  programme to guarantee 100 per cent basic education for a11 the 2 million Grameen families by the year 2000.  UNESCO responded enthusiastically.
4.19 UNESCO and Grameen signed a Memorandum of Understanding during the Beijing Conference  which, Mr Director-General, you have referred to. It aims at creating the basis of partnership between these two  organizations to collaborate in the fields of basic education, communication, technology, science and culture to  eradicate poverty at a faster pace from among the Grameen borrowers.
4.20 Through the UNESCO-Grameen collaboration initiatives have already been taken to launch a basic  education programme, facilitate marketing of Grameen Check, a traditional hand-woven cotton fabric made by  poor weavers in Bangladesh, and set up a telephone company to bring cellular telephones to the poor rural  women of Grameen to create a new income-generating activity for them, as well as an instrument of  empowerment. We are exploring the possibilities of setting up a solar-energy company to create business  opportunities for Grameen borrowers to supply electricity to rural households.
4.21 As Grameen’s experience became known to other researchers, non-govemmental organizations and  social activists started visiting Grameen to see how far this is replicable in their own countries. The fïrst serious  replication effort came f?om Malaysia, a decade ago. A new non-governmental organization was created to start  a Grameen Programme in Malaysia. Today, this non-governmental organization, called Amanah Ikhtiar  Malaysia, works throughout Malaysia very successfully.
4.22 Since then Grameen replications have corne into being in 52 countries around the world up to now. TO  provide technical assistance to replicators a new organization was created: the Grameen Trust. This new  organization provides training to the staff of replication projects, arranges workshops for specialized staff,  provides accounting software for branch accounting and MIS, makes available publications on various  operational issues, publishes a newsletter to keep the replicators in touch with each other. Grameen Trust  organizes exposure and dialogue programmes for policy-makers, legislators, chief executives of non-  governmental organizations and banks, and potential replicators.
4.23 Grameen Trust’,? publications are available in English, French, Spanish and Chinese. Translations in  several other languages are in preparation. Grameen Trust provides funding for Grameen replicators where  funding is difficult to arrange. It now provides funding to 55 projects in 14 countries including Philippines,  India, Nepal, China, Viet Nam, Nigeria, Lesotho and Bolivia.
4.24 Grameen-type programmes are coming up in all kinds of countries. Besides third world countries,  Grameen programmes are now operating in the United States of America, Canada, France and Norway. This  only demonstrates the big gap left behind by the financial institutions in a11 of our countries.
4.25 UNESCO is now collaborating with Grameen Bank to facilitate the replication of Grameen in its  member countries. This Will make it easy for member countries which are interested in starting Grameen  programmes.
4.26 The World Bank has recently taken an important step to support micro-credit programmes around the  world. It has taken the initiative to invite bilateral and multilateral donors to join together, to create what is  named as the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest, or CGAP. CGAP was bom in June this year. This Will  provide funds and information to start new micro-credit programmes and strengthen existing micro-credit  programmes. CGAP Will hopefully make micro-credit acceptable to the mainstream financial institutions, and  help remove the caste system which exists in the financial world today.
4.27 Grameen, along with its partner organizations around the world, is preparing to hold a People’s  Summit on Micro-credit in November of next year. The objective of the summit would be to help prepare an  action plan to reach the 100 million poorest families of the world with micro-credit, preferably through the  women in those families, by the year 2005 - that is, ten years from now. Multilateral financial institutions,  banks, investment fïrms, governments, United Nations organizations, non-governmental organizations, service  clubs, social activists, media people, legislators and academics are invited to join the summit to find ways and  means to reach the summit’s goal of reaching the 100 million poorest families with micro-credit by 2005.
4.28 Poverty is the denial of all human rights. There is no way we cari allow poverty to exist. Let us believe  that we cari create a poverty-free world once and for all. Let us participate with a11 our talents and creativity to  make it happen soon.
4.29 Thank you, Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, for giving  me this opportunity to share my thoughts with you.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Professor Yunus, 1 would like to express our most hearty thanks to you for this very interesting lecture.  It was not preaching in any way. You hear applause, especially from Ambassador Moscardo of Brazil. He  deserves to be mentioned, as it was he, who, in the Executive Board of UNESCO, suggested that you be invited  to address this General Conference. Even though Ambassador Moscardo is not always in total agreement with  everybody here, 1 am quite sure that on this point we a11 appreciate his initiative.
5.2 Now that 1 have heard your address, Professor Yunus, 1 have no doubt that we highly appreciate  Ambassador Moscardo’s initiative and the fact that you have shared your ideas with us. They are most  interesting because, with the Grameen Bank, you have broken the conventional line of thought. 1 feel quite  certain that the global community of UNESCO is in total support of the Director-General? decision to sign a  Memorandum of Understanding with your Bank. We a11 look forward to this co-operative project which, as you  said. is already getting under way.
5.3 1 do think that Ambassador Moscardo deserves to have the floor, even though it is quite outside the  rules of procedure. Ambassador Moscardo, you have the floor.
(6.1) Mr MOSCARDO (Brazil) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, 1 would like to thank the President, the Director-General and a11 concerned for the  opportunity of hearing someone speak about solutions. Up to now we have been speaking in UNESCO about the  problems, about knowledge, and we have even been presented with two important items of knowledge,  knowledge generated in the developed countries; 1 am referring to the two reports submitted to this Conference,  the Delors report and the Pérez de Cuéllar report.
(6.2) Now someone has brought us something different, a reminder perhaps of what it is to live and do, of  marginality when it is creative. He brings us a lesson from Bangladesh, not problems but a solution, and 1 would  like to welcome the mention made of the idea of poverty together with the idea of compassion. Nowadays we are  very concerned, even obsessed, with the idea of the market, and here cornes someone to speak of the poverty that  exists today throughout the world. We have been told that there are plans ta do away with the systems of social  security in every country, turning people into commodities, and here cornes someone who speaks to us of the need  for loans as a human right, who speaks to us of people in terms of a revolution of self-esteem. 1 think this is a  major contribution to the General Conference of UNESCO. 1 would like to thank the President and everyone else  for their forbearance for it is my belief that we have been shown a truly important aspect of the solution based on  compassion. Thank you.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ambassador Moscardo. Unfortunately, we cannot open the tloor at this time for a host of  interventions. 1 permitted this intervention from Ambassador Moscardo, because it was he who suggested that  we should hear Professor Yunus address the plenary of the General Conference. It has to rest there, because we  have a lot of business to complete. 1 know you would like to pay tribute to what the Grameen Bank has done  and is doing and that, even more, you would like to ask Professor Yunus other questions because the whole
21  scheme is SO interesting. However, this is not what we have arranged, and we must end this part of our  afternoon plenary here.
7.2 1 am told that Professor Yunus is ready to meet those of you who would like to talk and hear more  about the Grameen Bank in Room VIII from 4 to 5 p.m. Thank you very much, Professor Yunus.
7.3 We Will pause for a few minutes in order to permit Professor Yunus to leave the room and for the  Director-General and myself to accompany him to the door. Please remain in the room. Thank you.  (The meeting is suspended at 3.45 p.m. and resumes at 3.55 p.m.>  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  AOKJIAH KOMPICCMM II: PE30JIIOIIIIM M PEKOMEHJIAIIRM  ++Jlj crl,IJLu : i&Wl WI *Jz  %AI 3$E42!3im~-: zk4ecfmBix
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we Will resume our work. The next item on the agenda this afternoon is the  adoption of the Report of Commission II. The two documents that you have to consider are documents
8.2 1 Will remind you that we are now introducing the new method of working with Commission Reports.  This means that, the Chairperson of Commission II, His Excellency Mr Bakary Tio-Touré who did a  marvellous job in that capacity, Will present the entire Report of this Commission to us. 1 shall then invite the  delegates to take the floor and make observations on specific points, but not to support or to reinforce. The only  purpose for taking the floor is to raise points of disagreement or things you think should be changed in the  wording of the draft resolutions contained in the Report of Commission II. 1 now give the floor to present this  Report to Ambassador Tio-Tour& You have the floor, Sir.
9.1 M. TIO-TOURE (Côte d’ivoire) (président de la Commission II) :  Monsieur le Président, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur  que de prendre la parole pour rendre compte, au nom de la Commission II, que j’ai eu le plaisir de présider, de  nos délibérations et de nos travaux. Je tiens, en tout premier lieu, à rendre hommage à l’ensemble des membres  de notre Commission pour la profondeur de leur engagement et de leur reflexion, pour l’assiduité et l’esprit  constructif qui les ont animés et qui ont permis, à mon sens, d’aboutir aux résultats que je m’en vais, de ce pas,  vous livrer.
9.2 En m’acquittant de cette tâche, il me plaît de saluer le travail accompli par notre Rapporteur, M. Abou  Assali du Liban dont, j’en suis convaincu, vous allez, tout comme la Commission II, apprécier la qualité, la  fidélité aux débats, l’énorme effort de synthèse. A cet hommage, je voudrais associer la petite et dynamique  équipe du secrétariat de la Commission, dont le soutien efficace, précieux, discret mais constant a été  unanimement apprécié. Qu’elle en soit remerciée !
9.3 Permettez-moi, maintenant, Monsieur le Président, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, de  vous restituer les points saillants de notre réflexion collective et des débats intenses auxquels nous nous sommes  livrés sur notre conception de l’importance des défis éducatifs actuels, notre vision du futur, avec ses promesses  et ses incertitudes, sur les conséquences de cette perspective pour l’éducation et la formation, sur, enfin, les  mandats et stratégies de l’UNESCO.
9.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est peut-être un constat d’évidence, mais nous avons tenu à le réaffirmer,  unanimement et avec force : l’éducation est à la base du développement.
9.5 Comme l’a rappelé M. Federico Mayor, l’éducation est non seulement un droit fondamental de la  personne mais aussi un facteur de développement. C’est par l’éducation et l’autonomie qu’elle confere que  pourront être maîtrisés, à terme, les défis majeurs du XXIe siècle. L’éducation est aussi un investissement  rentable et non un bien de consommation. Elle contribue même à la sécurité, entendu au sens propre et figuré,  comme l’a souligné avec insistance la délégation de l’Egypte. Quelle éducation pour quel développement ? Telle  semble être la question centrale au coeur de nos préoccupations.
9.6 Ce développement devrait être humain et durable. Il devrait concerner tout l’individu et tous les  individus, toute la société et toutes les sociétés. La paix est au coeur de ce développement. La culture de la paix  en constitue l’ossature, une culture de paix dans une exigence de démocratie, de respect des droits de l’homme,  de tolérance active, de responsabilité et de citoyenneté universelle.
9.7 Les conclusions préliminaires de la Commission internationale sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle ont  mis en lumière des tendances lourdes et fait ressortir des problèmes et des perspectives qui rencontrent  l’approbation de plusieurs délégations, lesquelles comptent puiser dans le cadre prospectif élaboré l’inspiration  nécessaire pour faire face aux défis présents et à venir. L’UNESCO a été appelée à diffuser largement les  conclusions de cette Commission dans plusieurs langues nationales et à donner suite aux recommandations  pertinentes.
9.8 Malgré les efforts considérables accomplis, le monde entre dans le troisième millénaire avec
900 millions d’analphabètes, un nombre inquiétant de personnes vivant dans la pauvreté, parfois extrême, une  distribution inégale des biens et services au niveau mondial et au sein des diverses sociétés, une dette extérieure  insupportable, des taux de chômage alarmants, des craintes quant à l’état de l’environnement et à la situation  démographique de la planète.
9.9 La globalisation des échanges et l’interdépendance qui en résulte, tout comme la compétition pour  l’excellence qu’elle engendre, coexistent avec la fragmentation, la crise des valeurs, l’exaspération des  particularismes et la résurgence des extrémismes, de l’intolérance et de la violence. Le développement  prodigieux de la science et du savoir et l’explosion des industries fondées sur l’utilisation de la connaissance  comme matière premiere, la prise de conscience grandissante des populations face aux menaces et aux défis du  siècle, mais face aussi à ses potentialités, constituent, en même temps que l’essor des préoccupations éthiques,  un ferment qui se nourrit de l’éducation et qui l’enrichit en retour.
9.10 La communauté internationale a convoque plusieurs réunions sur ces thèmes - Jomtien, Rio, Le Caire,  Copenhague, et Beijing étant les plus récentes - ces réunions ont formulé des recommandations et élaboré des  plates-formes et plans d’action pour les acteurs de l’éducation dans lesquels plusieurs d’entre nous voient pour  notre Organisation la matière première qui lui permettra de concevoir les programmes du prochain exercice  biennal.
9.11 L’exigence de démocratie et la demande de participation trouvent un sol fertile de plus en plus propice  à l’éducation mais aussi de plus en plus exigeant à son égard. La réalité plurielle, reflet de la diversité et  fondement de la démocratie, fait l’objet d’un constat unanime et la demande éducative des pays en transition est  largement reconnue. Nous avons insisté sur le rôle changeant de l’Etat qui, par le biais de différents services,  devient un acteur parmi d’autres, un pourvoyeur de lignes directrices, un garant de l’équité et de la qualité, un  régulateur au plan normatif et un fédérateur des initiatives de l’ensemble des intervenants.
9.12 Pour cimenter cette réalité éclatée, la construction d’un consensus s’impose, consensus qui demande à  être sans cesse renouvelé. L’accent se déplace alors du contrôle vers le partenariat, la synergie, la coordination.  L’UNESCO a été invitée à favoriser ce mouvement et à procéder de même en son sein et au sein de ses  programmes mais aussi de ses organismes et unités hors Siège.
9.13 L’éducation, facteur et outil de développement humain, se trouve remise en question par la mission que  lui dicte la complexité des problèmes et des situations qui les génèrent. L’éducation permanente est la clé, le  cadre conceptuel, intégrateur et organisateur des réformes éducatives qui placent l’éducation tout au long de la  vie au coeur de la société. L’exigence d’éducation permanente pour tous (EPT) charpente aujourd’hui les  politiques éducatives de pays dont les contextes et les situations sont très différents. Les quatre piliers des  apprentissages requis pour le XXIe siècle, à savoir apprendre à connaître, apprendre à faire, apprendre à vivre  avec les autres, et apprendre à être, valent évidemment pour l’éducation permanente, dont le moteur reste  cependant l’apprentissage de l’apprentissage lui-même. Comme telle, cette notion n’est pas appelée à diluer ou  éluder le fondement sur lequel elle repose, c’est-à-dire l’éducation de base pour tous (EBT). L’éducation  permanente pour tous ne s’ajoute pas seulement aux formations antérieures. Elle exige leur adaptation et peut-  être leur renouvellement profond, alors même qu’elle doit s’insérer dans le tissu de la vie sociale. Elle doit  répondre à des besoins différenciés, anticiper sur des demandes emergentes et s’ouvrir à tous et à toutes.
9.14 L’éducation pour tous (EPT) apparaît de plus en plus comme un droit de la personne quelle que soit sa  situation. Il est fait appel à l’UNESCO pour aider les Etats membres à la refondation de leurs systèmes éducatifs  dans le sens de la nécessaire et constante adaptation aux exigences locales et nationales et à celles dune
21  éducation permanente dans des sociétés en mutation où l’individu, tout au long d’une vie, ne cesse d’apprendre,  de se former.
9.15 La priorité des priorités reste, conformement à la Déclaration de Jomtien, l’éducation de base, objectif  qui, pour un grand nombre de pays, constitue encore un défi majeur à relever. Plusieurs délegations ont attiré  l’attention de la Commission sur la nécessité d’accorder la primauté - en termes d’actions et de ressources - à cet  objectif primordial. La conception elargie de Jomtien a été frequemment evoquée pour souligner la nécessité de  répondre à tous ceux qui sont en situation de demande, d’explorer toutes les modalités et de mettre en place un  système unifié d’éducation et de formation accessible à tous et à toutes.
9.16 Tout en étant propre au contexte de chaque Etat et de chaque société, l’éducation de base pour tous est  une notion evolutive et, malgré la connotation sémantique du terme, elle ne saurait être assimilée à la notion  d’alimentation de base ou de survie, pour reprendre la formule du délégué de Pologne ; elle doit plutôt être  perçue comme en constante adaptation et en perpétuel changement pour répondre aux nouveaux besoins  naissants, comme, par exemple, la nécessité de vivre la normalité du multilinguisme ambiant, d’apprendre  aujourd’hui des langues étrangères et d’acquerir une formation à l’informatique et aux technologies modernes.
9.17 La diversité des situations a été constamment évoquee ainsi que le respect des cultures et valeurs  locales positives comme clément obligé qui façonne et conditionne les programmes.
9.18 Il est fait appel à la générosite, au génie et à la créativité de tous pour obtenir des synergies de  coopération et valoriser tous les apports féconds. Les demandes spécifiques portent par exemple sur le  lancement dune campagne pour collecter des millions de cahiers et de crayons, pour soutenir les efforts  considerables consentis par Cuba, qui dispose par ailleurs dune enseignante ou d’un enseignant pour
45 personnes. Notre appui est aussi sollicité par le Malawi, qui s’est résolument lancé dans une politique  volontariste visant à géneraliser l’enseignement primaire gratuit et ne dispose pour l’heure que d’un livre pour  cinq élèves, encadrés de surcroît par des enseignants nécessitant une formation initiale.
9.19 D’autres demandent qu’on les aide à préparer un plan-cadre d’éducation ou des états généraux y  conduisant : c’est le cas, par exemple, du Cameroun et du Zaïre, pour ne citer qu’eux. D’autres encore sollicitent  un appui pour un centre national ou régional de formation, tels la Chine, le Pakistan, le Mali, le Congo, les Iles  du Pacifique, et j’en passe. C’est enfin une coopération sous-régionale que l’on espère pour la rénovation des  manuels dans les pays baltes.
9.20 Nous avons trouve que le grand programme 1 était bien conçu et.avons apprécié l’articulation des  programmes, l’accent mis sur l’accès à l’éducation de base pour tous, sur les jeunes filles et les femmes, comme  groupes prioritaires, sur l’Afrique en particulier et les pays les moins avancés (PMA) en général, mais aussi les  pays insulaires, comme bénéficiaires prioritaires. Nous avons rappel& avec insistance que la priorité donnee à  l’intervention ne doit en aucune manière occulter la mission universaliste de notre Organisation, sa vocation de  forum dechanges intellectuels.
9.21 Tout en soutenant le programme concernant les neuf pays les plus peuplés, nous avons souligné le  besoin de diffuser vers les autres pays les acquis de ce programme spécifique. Dans ce débat, les pays classés  dans les catégories intermédiaires de notre typologie de développement ont exprimé un désir ardent, amplifié  par le délégué de la Thaïlande, de participer avec créativité au dialogue et à l’échange universels.
9.22 Assurer l’accès à l’éducation de base pour tous en vue de réduire, de manière significative, le taux  encore élevé d’analphabétisme, les abandons et les déperditions scolaires est hautement prioritaire pour la  plupart des Etats membres, et garantir celui des filles et des femmes en constitue le point saillant, une  préoccupation centrale qui touche aussi toutes les autres catégories de groupes défavorisés.
9.23 Notre souci de généraliser l’accès à l’éducation de base pour tous concerne aussi et surtout les groupes  spécifiques qui sont actuellement marginalises, les pauvres, les chômeurs, les populations autochtones. 1~s  émigrés, les pygmées de l’Afrique centrale, les nomades du Sahel et d’ailleurs, les réfugies et les victimes des  guerres et conflits. Beaucoup de délégués s’en sont faits les porte-parole pour soutenir leurs projets et partager  leurs espoirs.
9.24 L’élargissement de l’accès concerne aussi les cibles traditionnelles faisant l’objet de discriminations  diverses du fait de l’âge, de la situation socioculturelle et de besoins spkciaux. Le besoin d’éducation spéciale,  l’accès généralisé à cette forme d’enseignement et sa qualité ont été réaflïrmés avec force et conviction.  L’enseignement intégrateur, prôné par la conférence de Salamanque de juin 1994, a trouvé un très large écho.
715    Les intervenants ont fait état de leurs efforts pour traduire dans les faits les lignes directrices de Salamanque,  tant dans leurs politiques que dans leurs réformes éducatives, et pour remettre en cause les approches parallèles.  Une bonne école pour les apprenants ayant des besoins spéciaux est une école excellente pour tous. Cette  réflexion d’un représentant reflète l’engagement pris et traduit nos attentes et notre conviction.
9.25 Nous avons été nombreux à demander qu’une attention renouvelée soit accordée au développement de  la petite enfance comme facteur intégrateur et comme élément de correction des inégalités préparant à de  meilleures performances scolaires mais, avant tout, aux fins du respect du droit de l’enfant, de la  reconnaissance de ses possibilités et de la garantie de son développement. Plusieurs délégations ont souhaité  bénéficier d’aides et de conseils et proceder à un échange de projets novateurs en la matière.
9.26 L’élargissement de l’accès à l’éducation de base signifie la prise en compte des besoins éducatifs des  adultes. Cette insistance sur le renforcement de l’éducation des adultes est surtout dictée par la demande  grandissante d’éducation et de formation à l’âge adulte, Le rôle de l’éducation en matière de citoyenneté a aussi  été signalé, dans la perspective du renforcement de l’autonomie des populations, de leur participation à la prise  de décisions et du raffermissement de l’équilibre social et culturel, dans un monde de plus en plus fragile.
9.27 Il a souvent été question de l’importance qu’il y avait à améliorer en permanence les contenus et  l’efficacité des programmes d’alphabétisation, de postalphabétisation et d’éducation de base non formelle. Le  Kenya et la Mongolie ont souhaite un appui pour évaluer et renforcer les programmes en cours et Bahreïn a  suggéré de s’attaquer au nouvel analphabétisme lié à la présence des nouvelles technologies parallèlement aux  activités visant à l’acquisition de l’écriture.
9.28 A plusieurs reprises, on a insisté sur le rôle pivot de l’enseignant. Sa formation, mais aussi celle des  directeurs d’école, des inspecteurs ainsi que du personnel administratif sont au coeur du dispositif tendant à  l’amélioration de la qualité et de la pertinence de l’éducation. Ont été évoquées également les inquiétudes que  suscitent le statut des enseignants, leur recrutement, leur formation, et leur situation dans la société et  l’accomplissement de leurs taches. Les conclusions du Comité conjoint OIT-UNESCO, le CEART, complétées  par la convention en préparation sur la reconnaissance des titres de l’enseignement supérieur, ont été largement  approuvées, La célébration de la Journée internationale des enseignants est un acte fort et un signal important  qui est en train de faire tâche d’huile dans beaucoup de pays.
9.29 Nous attendons aussi que la 45e session de la Conférence internationale de l’éducation, fort  opportunément consacrée aux enseignants, mette en lumière le rôle irremplaçable de ces derniers et l’évolution  de ce rôle qu’imposent les adaptations aux nombreux enjeux de notre époque et l’existence de nouveaux moyens  d’information et de communication.
9.30 L’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement est en grande partie liée à la nature des partenariats mis  en place. Comme vous l’avez constaté, nous sommes de plus en plus appelés à tenir compte de la réalité locale  et communautaire. Faire entrer les sous-cultures locales à l’école est une tâche permanente des éducateurs. En  effet, décentralisation, participation communautaire et mise en place d’une gouvernante appropriée sont à  l’ordre du jour et contribuent à changer et même à transformer les paradigmes de l’éducation.
9‘31 Mais, comme nous l’a rappelé la délégation norvégienne, c’est à l’Etat qu’incombe au premier chef la  responsabilité d’assumer aussi bien le financement que la mise en place de structures permettant d’assurer une  offre publique d’éducation polyvalente.
9.32 La contribution essentielle de l’apprentissage ouvert et du télé-apprentissage/enseignement a suscité un  vif intérêt auprès de nombreux délégués qui ont souligné l’apport fécond et le fort potentiel de ces derniers dans  le développement des ressources humaines.
9.33 L’initiative “Apprendre sans frontières”, que nous avons largement soutenue, s’inscrit dans la  recherche de nouvelles formes d’éducation ou de formation plus simples, dune éducation de plus en plus  affranchie des contraintes de temps, de lieu, d’âge et de circonstances. Il a néanmoins semble à certains que le  développement de cette initiative et les pistes tracées confinent les conceptions de l’éducation permanente dans  un cadre trop scolaire. Plusieurs intervenants ont souhaité en conséquence que l’UNESCO tienne compte dans  ce projet, dans l’optique de l’éducation permanente, de l’attitude favorisant une citoyenneté active, critique,  participative et responsable, qui, en dehors de l’école, s’acquiert aussi et s’exerce quotidiennement dans le cadre  des réseaux de formation et d’éducation de type extrascolaire.
9.34 Face aux progrès rapides du développement technologique aujourd’hui, l’UNESCO a été constamment  sollicitée pour prêter son concours à la réforme de l’enseignement secondaire dans le cadre de laquelle un  accent particulier est placé sur la formation professionnelle et technique.
9.35 A cet égard, plusieurs délégations, parmi lesquelles l’Allemagne, le Cameroun, l’Egypte, la France, la  République de Corée et la Suisse, attachent un intérêt tout particulier au projet UNEVOC pour l’enseignement  technique et professionnel, Certains ont souligné la nécessité de promouvoir cette formation par les canaux  aussi bien formels que non formels et par le biais du renforcement des liens avec le monde économique. Une  requête spéciale a été faite par plusieurs pays d’Asie et du Pacilique pour renforcer les activités UNEVOC dans  cette région et des propositions d’établissement de centres sous-régionaux ou nationaux ont émané de plusieurs  pays. Tout en approuvant largement ce projet, plusieurs intervenants ont attiré l’attention sur la nécessité de  tenir compte des spécificités socioculturelles et nationales en matière de formation et d’emploi. Il a surtout été  demandé avec insistance à l’UNESCO d’inscrire ce programme dans le cadre de la rénovation d’ensemble de  l’enseignement général, technique et professionnel.
9.36 Le rôle dans l’éducation des technologies de l’information et de la communication a été mentionné par  plusieurs orateurs comme un domaine dune importance croissante dans les activités de l’UNESCO. Le  caractère transversal de ce thème en a fait l’objet d’une séance plénière de travail de l’ensemble des  commissions de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Référence a été faite en particulier aux moyens que  l’enseignement à distance peut offrir pour surmonter les inégalités d’accès aux possibilités d’apprentissage. La  condition préalable essentielle est d’assurer l’accès égal, de fournir les technologies nécessaires et de former les  personnels pour les utiliser. Il a aussi été noté que les nouvelles technologies devraient assister l’enseignant et le  processus d’enseignement/apprentissage traditionnel et non se substituer à eux. De l’inquiétude a aussi été  exprimée en ce qui concerne la monoculture dominante des médias, les possibles effets déshumanisants de la  technologie et son impact négatif sur l’éducation des enfants. Quant aux autoroutes de l’information, leur  avènement suscite espoir et crainte et la question centrale soulevée est de savoir comment y faire circuler des  véhicules de toutes les cultures et sous-cultures et surtout comment entretenir et améliorer les nombreux  sentiers qui n’y accèdent pas encore. Des questions d’ordre éthique et légal ont été posées par certains orateurs.  En se référant au deuxième congrès international sur l’éducation et l’informatique, qui se tiendra à Moscou en
1996, le représentant du pays hôte a sollicité une large participation des Etats membres à cette manifestation.
9.37 L’émergence de ces technologies, leur rapidité d’expansion et de pénétration au travers des filets  sociaux et des mailles spatiales illustrent les défis éthiques à relever et les déontologies à inventer et montrent  la nécessité dune culture de l’information responsabilisante pour les acteurs éducatifs et autres, respectueuse de  leurs besoins et priorités, pétrie de cultures locales et universelles, s’appuyant, enfin, sur les médias et moyens  d’expression traditionnels.
9.38 L’éducation préventive est toujours à l’ordre du jour et aujourd’hui encore plus d’actualité. Les  préoccupations qu’inspirent l’homme, sa santé et son environnement social et physique sont fréquemment  revenues dans nos analyses des besoins et priorités en matière de réforme des contenus de l’enseignement.
9.39 L’éducation visant à lutter contre le sida et l’abus des drogues a été mentionnée par plusieurs délégués  qui ont incité l’UNESCO à renforcer son action dans ce domaine. La propagation exponentielle du sida en Asie  appelle un programme régional concerté qui a été proposé par le Japon et qui devrait nécessairement enir  compte des contextes socioculturels et des comportements psychosociaux.
9.40 Un grand nombre de participants sont intervenus en faveur du développement et de l’évolution de  l’enseignement supérieur qui voit ses missions élargies aux dimensions de la nouvelle société éducative. Ils ont  exprimé un grand intérêt pour le programme UNITWINkhaires UNESCO, ainsi que pour la fonction  normative de l’Organisation en ce qui concerne la reconnaissance des diplômes, domaine où le rôle important et  crucial du CEPES, basé en Roumanie, dans l’intégration des universités européennes a été reconnu et le  renforcement de la collaboration du Centre avec le Conseil de l’Europe suggérée.
9.41 Les ONG sont intervenues massivement dans l’ensemble du débat et ont exprimé leur satisfaction  quant à la consultation collective à laquelle l’Organisation procède avec elles sur ce thème.
9.42 Le rôle primordial des universités dans la formation des enseignants a été évoqué et un intérêt presque  unanime manifesté pour une conférence internationale sur l’enseignement supérieur.
9.43 Les associations de jeunes et les représentants d’associations d’étudiants ont activement pris part aux  discussions et montré qu’ils partageaient les craintes et les espoirs des autres participants.
9.44 La demande pour les chaires UNESCO étant trop forte, il a été recommandé de faire preuve de  prudence, de veiller à la crédibilité de l’Organisation et d’adopter la plus grande rigueur quant aux choix des  thèmes et à l’octroi des chaires. Le débat traditionnel sur la priorité à accorder aux thèmes centraux et à  l’approche transdisciplinaire a repris, parallelement à la formulation de suggestions pour une approche  disciplinaire à propos de laquelle partisans de la science et de l’éducation ont diversement exprimé leurs  préférences.
9.45 L’importance des conférences régionales et sous-régionales a été mise en évidence par certains  délégués. La Jamaïque a accepté d’accueillir PROMEDLAC et MINEDLAC VII en 1996. Le texte des statuts  du nouveau Comité regional sur l’éducation en Asie et dans le Pacifique a été approuve par plusieurs  intervenants. L’importance de la consultation de haut niveau, organisee tous les deux ans dans le Pacifique, a  été reconnue. Le représentant du Conseil de l’Europe a exprimé la satisfaction de son organisation concernant  sa coopération avec HJNESCO.
9.46 Le Mali, au nom de l’Organisation de l’unité africaine, a communiqué des informations à l’UNESCO  sur les “Perspectives de Ségou” et sur la proclamation de l’année 1996 comme année de l’éducation en Afrique,  en prélude à une décennie de l’éducation à partir de 1997. Le soutien de l’UNESCO et de tous les Etats  membres est requis pour mener à bien cette entreprise.
9.47 Un grand nombre d’orateurs ont indique que d’importantes réformes des systèmes éducatifs étaient  necessaires dans leur pays. Il a éte souligné que de telles réformes étaient entreprises dans de vastes domaines  tels que les structures éducatives, les programmes d’enseignement, l’enseignement multilingue avec une  réference au projet Linguapax et l’application de technologies nouvelles,
9.48 Les intervenants de trois pays en situation d’apres conflit, le Liberia, le Rwanda et la Sierra Leone, ont  demandé l’assistance de l’UNEZSC0 pour la reconstruction de leurs systèmes éducatifs,
9.49 L’importance de l’évaluation comme modalité de surveillance de la mise en oeuvre des activités du  programme a éte soulignée par de nombreux pays.
9.50 On a, dans ce cadre, instamment demandé à l’UNESCO de prendre l’initiative d’établir des indicateurs  pour évaluer l’efficacité des programmes éducatifs dans les Etats membres, d’aider ces derniers à se doter  d’instruments et d’outils susceptibles d’améliorer les résultats des apprentissages interne et externe à l’école et  d’organiser, enfin, des programmes de formation à l’intention du personnel enseignant.
9.51 Cette évaluation devrait s’accompagner d’un mécanisme de reconnaissance des compétences et  connaissances acquises dans le cadre des systèmes formel et non formel, comme dans celui d’apprentissages  pratiques. L’Afrique du Sud a fait part, à cet égard, de la mise en chantier dune large unité opérationnelle, qui  servira de cadre pour des échanges sous-régionaux.
9.52 Dans cette optique, il a eté suggéré d’accorder la plus grande attention à l’évaluation à mi-parcours de  l’exécution du Plan d’action de Jomtien, afin de prendre les mesures correctives qui s’imposent et surtout de  sensibiliser à nouveau la communauté internationale qui donne des signes de fatigue quant à la mobilisation de  ressources.
9.53 Un certain nombre d’orateurs ont fait référence à la Classification internationale type de l’éducation de  l’UNESCO (CITE) et ont souligné son importance dans le développement de statistiques nationales et  internationales de l’éducation. De l’avis genéral, l’UNESCO devrait multiplier ses efforts afin de réviser et  mettre à jour la version actuelle de la CITE, en collaboration étroite avec d’autres organismes (en particulier  l’OCDE).
9.54 11 a été vivement recommandé, par ailleurs, d’ouvrir cette classification aux systèmes extrascolaires et  de mettre sur pied un mécanisme d’intégration débouchant sur un système d’information pour une gestion de  l’éducation.
9.55 Plusieurs délégations ont jugé généralement satisfaisantes les grandes lignes d’action des trois  organismes de l’UNESCO s’occupant de l’éducation et se sont déclarées favorables à l’autonomie dont ils  jouissent en matière de budget et de programme.
9.56 La contribution de l’Institut international de planilication de l’éducation (IIPE) au développement des  capacités nationales et la mise en place de partenariats locaux et de réseaux sous-régionaux ont recueilli une  très forte approbation et suscité des demandes de services et de coopération ayant des incidences sur le budget,  les moyens d’intervention et les activités de cet institut, dont le rôle pilote de liaison avec les bailleurs de fonds  doit être renforcé.
9.57 Deux idées ont été évoquées le plus souvent, qui devraient inspirer la transformation continue du  Bureau international d’éducation (BIE) : une action décisive en ce qui concerne l’utilisation des nouvelles  technologies de l’information ; la décentralisation des activités et leur articulation avec celles des autres unités  de l’UNESCO. Le thème de la 45e session de la Conférence internationale de l’éducation (CIE) “Renforcement  du rôle des enseignants dans un monde en changement” a été jugé pertinent et d’actualité.
9.58 La contribution de l’Institut de l’UNESCO pour l’éducation (IIIE) au programme général de l’UNESCO  a été soulignée par plusieurs Etats membres de toutes les régions. La proposition de tenir, en juillet 1997, la  cinquième Conférence internationale sur l’éducation des adultes à Hambourg, a reçu un très large appui. Les  Etats membres souhaitent à cet égard que les commissions nationales soient étroitement associées au processus.
9.59 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’éventail des activités passées en revue laisse entrevoir des risques de  fragmentation et de dispersion sur lesquels nous avons attiré l’attention de l’organisation. Tout au long du  débat, nous nous sommes ralliés, par de nombreuses voix, à la mission fondamentale de l’Organisation inscrite  dans son Acte constitutif, à savoir construire la paix. L’actualité de cette mission, sa pertinence, surtout au  moment où nous célébrons le cinquantenaire de notre Organisation, sa noblesse, mais aussi ses risques nous  apparaissent chaque jour et souvent tragiquement. La menace quotidienne qui pèse sur la paix mérite qu’on  investisse et qu’on s’investisse dans la tache à accomplir pour la construire et la préserver. Convaincus de cetle  nécessité, nous avons souligné la place primordiale qu’occupe l’éducation et sa contribution inestimable à une  culture de la paix durable.
9.60 Il incombe à l’UNESCO d’être en première ligne, d’être l’initiatrice, l’épine dorsale et la fédératrice des  initiatives. L’Organisation doit contribuer à enrichir les pratiques mondiales, pétries des expériences faites sur  tous les continents, forgées par les activités multiformes des Etats, complétées et améliorées par les apports  novateurs et décisifs, parfois, des ONG, des mouvements associatifs et du secteur privé.
9.61 L’identité de l’UNESCO, nous en sommes persuadés et nous nous en sommes fait l’écho, est d’être une  Organisation qui oeuvre universellement pour la construction de la paix et la consolidation des droits de  l’homme, le changement social, l’accès à l’éducation permanente pour tous, en particulier pour les plus  démunis, la promotion de la culture, la diffusion et la vulgarisation de la science à l’instar de Schola Ludus en  Slovaquie. L’éducation reste, cela a été maintes fois répété, le vecteur porteur de cette politique et nous avons  souhaité, à la suite de la représentante de Sainte-Lucie, que l’Organisation joue un rôle de chef de file dans le  monde, qu’elle conduise les initiatives visant à réduire les inégalités à l’intérieur des pays et entre les pays.  Comme par le passé, l’UNBSC0 est appelée à veiller scrupuleusement à la pertinence et à la qualité de ses  programmes, à promouvoir et véhiculer l’excellence, afin de préserver et renforcer une crédibilité toujours à  renouveler. L’avenir est à ce prix. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
10.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Monsieur I’Ambassadeur, je tiens à vous remercier pour ce rapport oral concernant les travaux de la  Commission II. Vous nous avez dit par exemple qu’au Malawi on ne dispose que d’un livre pour cinq élèves, et  combien il est important de collecter des millions de cahiers et de crayons pour soutenir les efforts déployés en  faveur de l’éducation et relever le très grave défi qui nous est lancé dans ce domaine. Merci à vous pour ce  rapport.  (The President continues in English)
10.2 1 would like to ask you whether there are any comments or any remarks concerning the Draft Report in  front of you witb its addendum and corrigendum. If there are none, 1 shall assume that we take note of the  report and by the same token adopt the draft resolutions included in the report. 1 see no objections. It is SO  decided.  (Applause)
10.3 1 do think that its immediate adoption is a further testimony to the marvellous work done by Mr Tio-  Touré and his Commission. Once again, thank you SO much for your contribution to the twenty-eighth session  of the General Conference.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION III: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  QOKJIA,lJ KOMMCCHEI III: PE30JlIOLJEIM Pi PEKOMEHAAqkHl  cd+Qg)g ~IJIJLII : awl i+JJl &G  %lIl ~R&stii6i~-: &ttX#@R
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  And now we move to the next item on the agenda for this afternoon: adoption of the Report of  Commission III. The two documents that we have to consider bear the following reference numbers: 28 C/l46  and 28 C/l46 Add. and Corr.
11.2 1 shall now give the floor to Mr Mario Ruivo, Chairperson of Commission III, who Will present the  report of his Commission. Let me first remark, however, tbat besides SO ably directing the work of the  Commission, Mr Ruivo has also been attentively observing the proceedings and considering possible  improvements for the next session. Most constructively, he has shared his views with the General Committee;  and has promised to send me something in writing. 1 am grateful to him for that. And now, he has the floor.
12.1 Mr RUIVO (Portugal), Chairperson of Commission III:  Thank you very much, Mr President. As Chairperson of Commission III, 1 have the very difficult task  of trying to summarize with the help of the Rapporteur some of the main points of what was an extremely rich  series of debates in our Commission. Indeed, this is the tïrst time that the natural and the social sciences have  been placed together under a single heading in the Programme and Budget of UNESCO. This situation  evidently raised some questions, particularly from those delegations that felt that the natural scientific  programmes and activities were in danger of overshadowing the social science programmes. In this connection,  a few delegations recalled that the Executive Board had in fact requested an in-depth study on this question.
12.2 However, Mr Badran, Assistant Director-General for Science, assured delegates that there was no  question of merging the two programmes into one single structure, and MS Fournier, Assistant Director-  General for the Social and Human Sciences, acknowledged the delegates’ wish to preserve the identity,  autonomy and importance of UNESCO’s social and human science programme.
12.3 There was, nevertheless, general agreement that the complex issues of sustainable development cannot  be addressed by a single discipline on its own, whether it be biology, engineering or economics, that they  require the cross-fertilization of ideas and approaches drawn from both the natural and social sciences. In other  words, the placing of the social and natural sciences in a single major programme should not be seen to be a  mere juxtaposition but rather the means by which concrete joint ventures might be developed in the field.
12.4 The two new projects on && and coastal renions and small islands, which responded to the cal1 for  interdisciplinarity, were welcomed as testing rounds for this approach. In the same vein, the Commission  endorsed thejoint statement of the Chairpersons of the international and intergovernmental environmental and  social science undertakings of the IOC, MAB, IHP, IGCP and MOST, encouraging collaboration on selected  topics. Such initiatives were welcomed by many delegates as important steps towards the implementation of  Agenda 21 and the Conventions on Biological Diversity, Desertifïcation and Climate Change and the results of  the Copenhagen Summit for Social Development, the Cairo Conference on Population and Development and  the BeiJing Conference on Women. It was the view of the Commission that UNESCO’s five scientilic  undertakings cari and should play a signilicant leading role in the follow-up to these conferences.
12.5 However, it was widely accepted that interdisciplinarity is not possible without ensuring that  disciplines are strong in themselves. Here, the initiative of the Science Sector regarding the advent of a World  Conference on Science in 1998 and the possible establishment of an International Commission on Science for  the Twenty-First Century similar to the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century  and the World Commission on Culture and Development, were most welcome.
12.6 In the course of the debates on a11 programmes, several important points were made regarding the  methods of work of UNESCO in general. For example, there is a clear tendency to create networks of activities  in the regions, and here the co-ordinating and catalytic role of the UNESCO National Commissions and  national programme committees, as well as of the UNESCO regional and subregional field offices, is becoming  increasingly vital. This tendency towards decentralization is, of course, to be encouraged as long as the priority  themes and approaches identified by the international co-ordinating bodies of the programmes are being  respected.
12.7 Many delegates emphasized the need to maintain and, where appropriate, improve the quality of  activities. Hence the need for periodic, objective evaluation. The Commission was told that evaluation  procedures are thus being increasingly built into the various programme activities.
12.8 Another tendency is for the UNESCO programmes to act as frameworks for activities at national,  regional and international levels for which the bulk of funding is sought from extra-budgetary sources. The  contribution from UNESCO? regular budget may in some case be modes& but it cari play a crucial catalytic and  moral role.
12.9 In this connection, the very nature of the programmes on the natural and the social sciences demands  improved inter-agency co-operation within the United Nations system, as well as increased collaboration witb  major non-governmental parmers, notably the International Council of Scientitïc Unions (ICSU), the  International Union of Technical Associations (UATI), the World Federation of Engineering Organizations  (WFEO) and the International Social Science Council (ISSC). The need for building up the synergetic effect of  such co-operation was brought out many tintes during the debates.
12.10 Commission III decided to carry out its work in three units of discussion and decision-making, relating  to the basic and engineering sciences, the environmental sciences, and the social and human sciences. Each  unit involved the interventions from over 70 delegates.
12.11 1 should like to highlight some of the main points that were made during the debate on each of the  Programmes, 1 shall begin with Programme II.1 - Advancement, transfer and sharing of knowledge in natural  sciences.
12.12 Al1 the delegates who took the floor expressed their full satisfaction with, and overall support for,  Programme II.1 and its single Subprogramme 11.1.1 - Teaching. research and co-operation in the basic and  engineering sciences. Many delegates emphasized the need for international and regional co-operation in the  basic and engineering sciences SO as to develop endogenous capacities and better apply science for  technological development. The training of your specialist was highlighted, as was the project ‘Women, science  and technology’ and its concomitant actions aimed at promoting the access of women to careers in science and  technology.
12.13 Several delegates expressed their support for the UNITWIN and UNESCO Chairs programme in  science and technology, including the ‘Ecotechnie’ Chairs, and their usefulness in promoting sustainable  development. Attention was drawn to the need to ensure that there be an equitable geographic distribution of  these Chairs and that the subjects and disciplines to be covered respond to the needs of developing countries.
12.14 Some delegates highlighted the need for continuously evaluating and improving the quality of science  education in universities. UNESCO’s policy paper on higher education and the plan to convene an international  conference on higher education were supported by some speakers.
12.15 Several speakers pointed out the priority of action in mathematics and were particularly in favour of  the increase in decentralized activity of the International Centre for Pure and Applied Mathematics (CIMPA)  for the training of specialists from developing countries.
12.16 Many delegates recognized the priority of action in phvsics and, in particular, supported advanced  training activities in co-operation with the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP) in Trieste, the  International Centre for Physics (CIF) in Bogota, and the national universities.
12.17 Many delegates gave their support to action in the field of chemistrv. The need to promote chemistry  education at the undergraduate level was stressed, as were opportunities for co-operation with the Network for  Computational Chemistry in Asia, the Latin American Chemistry Network, the International Centre for
721    Phytochemistry in Sofia, the UNIDAS Centre in Sao Paulo and the International Organization for Chemical  Sciences in Development (IOCD).
12.18 In the field of biological sciences, several delegates endorsed the activity of the Molecular and Ce11  Biology Network (MCBN) and others mentioned the importance of the ‘Man against Virus’ programme and the  need to promote activities in Ahica.
12.19 A large number of delegates underlined the priority and timely nature of the activities in the  biotechnologies and microbiologv and in particular expressed support for the Microbiological Centres  (MIRCEN) network.
12.20 Several speakers expressed appreciation of the proposal for UNESCO to continue its partnership with  major non-governmental organizations such as ICSU and the Third World Academy of Sciences. Joint  fellowship, lectureship and professorship programmes in particular were endorsed, as was co-operation in  science teaching, the promotion of scientist and the improvement of the status of scientists and mode1  normative acts related to science and technology.
12.21 Many delegates emphasized the significance of co-operation for addressing the role of science and  technologv in the societal context and the Commission invited the Director-General to appoint an international  working group of experts to draw up a proposal for the organization of a possible programme in the area, as  well as to develop an international network for research and training on science and technologypolicy  management by building on the STEPAN model.
12.22 The World Solar Programme received strong support from a majority of the countries. Here, several  delegates pointed out that ‘solar energy’ was, in fact, a generic term and covered other renewable energy sources  such as the wind, oceans, rivers and geothermal sources, as well as biomass. Mention was made of the benefits  of using renewable energy sources, such as the provision of electricity as a basic prerequisite for development,  new employment opportunities through local, small-scale industries, and in particular improving the conditions  for women in rural areas. In this connection, many delegates expressed their interest in, and their activities  under, the ‘Solar villages in Africa’ project. Attention was drawn to the need to undertake, in the next  biennium, an in-depth analysis of the contribution of the use of such renewable energies to reduce deforestation  and desertification and thereby ensure greater land productivity and ecosystem protection.
12.23 The majority of delegates therefore welcomed the World Summit Process and expressed their interest  in participating in the World Solar Summit to be held in Harare (Zimbabwe) In September 1996. Many  indicated that UNESCO should make the World Solar Process better known to Member States, members of the  United Nations family and other international organizations, and the delegates of India, Oman, Pakistan and  Zimbabwe indicated that their Heads of State or Prime Ministers had agreed to serve on the World Solar  Commission,
12.24 As regards the UNISPAR programme, many delegates reported that they had already drawn up  national strategies and institutional mechanisms for university-industry co-operation - this was a very important  point during the debate - and referred to regional initiatives, for example the Ibero-American Programme and  the Bolivar Programme. Appreciation of the work undertaken under the International Fund for the  Technological Development of Africa was mentioned by several delegates including several from outside  Africa.
12.25 Several delegates commented on the programme for the improvement of teaching in engineering  to concentrate activities for better cost-effectiveness and the need to promote the sciences, including the need  use of computer multi-media technologies and communication networks such as connections to the Internet.  Some delegates advocated the need to emphasize the issue of the elimination of solid wastes including toxic  waste products.
12.26 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 now present the oral report on our  debate on Programme II.3 - Environmental sciences and sustainable development and item 5.15 on the  Biosphere Reserves.
12.27 In addressing the CO-ordination and promotion of interdisciplinary and inter-agency co-operation,  many delegates drew attention to the important role of UNESCO’s programmes in the implementation of  Agenda 21 and the Conventions on Biological Diversity, Climate Change, Desertification and the Law of the  Sea. Expectations are high with respect to the establishment of a scientilïc basis for sustainable development,
21  and the move towards greater interdisciplinarity in environment and development work in areas of the  Organization’s expertise.
12.28 In this vein, many delegates referred to the meeting of the five Chairpersons of the international and  intergovemmental environmental and social science undertakings of UNESCO held on 3 November 1995. As a  result of this meeting, the five Chairpersons of IOC, MAB, IHP, IGCP and MOST prepared a Joint Statement  which was presented to the Commission on 7 November 1995 by the Vice-President of MOST and figuring in  the Annex to Commission 111’s Report. The innovative character of the meeting involving both the natural and  social sciences was welcomed. Many delegates endorsed the Joint Statement, which they considered to be an  important step towards the implementation of the new interdisciplinary projects on coastal regions and small  islands, and one on cities.
12.29 Delegates also endorsed the other priority areas identified for co-operation: biodiversity, natural  disaster reduction, combating desertitïcation, climate change issues, the protection of the marine environment  from land-based activities, and global environmental observance systems. Delegates stressed that co-operation  between the five scientific programmes must also be encouraged at national and regional levels.
12.30 1 now tum to Subprogramme 11.3.2 - Earth sciences and natural hazards. Many delegates expressed  strong support for the International Geological Correlation programme (IGCP) and the fact that, while  fundamental research remained at the tore of the Programme, there was also a new focus on applied problems.  Support was voiced for projects on natural hazards related to rapid and long-term changes of coastal zones and  to desertitïcation. Attention was drawn to the importance of the International Geological Congress which Will  be held in August 1996 in Beijing.
12.31 Support was noted for improved data handling in relation to the management of the earth’s surface,  including minera1 resources and land-use planning. A few delegates advocated the strengthening of the Pan-  Africa Network on Geological Information Systems (PANGIS) project and the development of geodata  handling projects for other geographical regions.
12.32 Support was also expressed for geo-environmental projects in relation to cities and coastal zones, and  activities aimed at technology transfer and scientific capacity building. Topics mentioned included the effects of  mining and the safe confinement of household and industrial wastes in geological formations.
12.33 Strong support was given by a large number of delegates for UNESCO’s programmes on natural  hazards in the framework of the International Decade of Natural Disaster Reduction. Specific requests for new  action in this field, voiced during the sessions, focused in particular on earthquake and volcanic risks, as well  as the integration of disaster reduction activities into comprehensive sustainable development strategies.
12.34 1 should like to tum now to Subprogramme 11.3.3 - Ecological sciences and the Man and the Biosphere  (MAB) programme.
12.35 A large number of delegations expressed their strong support for the MAB programme. It is seen by  many as a key instrument in the follow-up to UNCED and in the implementation of Agenda 21. The  MAB programme’s focus on four major interdisciplinary areas: biological diversity; sustainable management of  natural resources; capacity-building; and communication, was seen as a highly relevant framework for action.
12.36 In this respect, a number of delegates indicated that they expect that MAB, with its truly  interdisciplinary scope and its various projects and networks, Will make a very important contribution at  national, regional, and international levels to the implementation of the Conventions on Biological Diversity,  Desertification and Climate Change. Several delegates expressed their support for the continuation of the  MAB Young Scientists Research Grant Scheme. Similar support was expressed for the international scient&  research programme on biodiversity, DIVERSITAS, which is jointly sponsored by UNESCO and members of  the ICSU family, including IUBS (International Union of Biological Sciences). The initiative to create the  Internet-based UNESCO-MABNet was also welcomed.
12.37 The International Conference on Biosphere Reserves held in Seville, Spain, in March 1995, was  perceived by many delegates as a watershed in the history of the MAB Programme. Its two main products, ‘the  Seville Strategy’ and the ‘Statutory Framework’ for the World Network of Biosphere Reserves, were strongly  endorsed by the majority of delegates and were recommended for adoption by the General Conference. Many  delegates referred to the biosphere reserves in their countries and several delegates welcome co-operation  between IOC and MAB in the development of coastahmarine biosphere reserves with a focus on marine
723    biodiversity. Many delegates spoke in favour of the regional and subregional networks of biosphere reserves  and the way in which they were facilitating the exchange of information and research results. Attention Will be  paid in particular to the launching of an African MAB and an African Biosphere Reserve Network.
12.38 Based on the success and vision of the Seville Conference, full support was given to the World  Network of Biosphere Reserves as areas holding outstanding promise for the protection, utilization and study of  biodiversity and as models of how societies cari develop in harmony with nature.
12.39 Under Subprogramme 11.3.4 on Hydrology and water resources development in a vulnerable  environment, strong support was expressed by delegates for UNESCO’s freshwater arm, tbe International  Hydrological Programme (II-IP), and more particularly its Fifth Phase starting in 1996. During the debate  several delegates suggested that IHP be strengthened in view of the global importance of freshwater issues.  Many delegates stressed that II-IF’ needs to be more interdisciplinary and should suive for an appropriate  integration of natural and social sciences. Some delegates mentioned the regionalization of the governing  mechanism of the IHP, for which the IHP Council would be invited to formulate a recommendation at is next  session.
12.40 Various delegates supported IHP’s activities related to capacity-building, in particular in developing  countries, and recommended that they be furtber strengthened.
12.41 Regional water resources problems and regional aspects of II-II’ work were addressed by delegates from  different regions and the need to strengtben certain UNESCO fïeld offices was highlighted.
12.42 Delegates from some African countries reported on their involvement in the IHP through their  contributions to the project on the Great Lakes of Africa or the FRIEND/Western Africa project. Specific  questions were raised in connection with the management of the Zambezi river system and groundwater  availability in the Lake Chad basin to alleviate the effects of drought. There was, in particular, general interest  in the special project on Women and Water Resources in the Sub-Saharan countries. Delegates from the Arab  countries referred specifïcally to the adverse effects of droughts, water scarcity in arid conditions, sea water  encroachment on coastal aquifers and strategies for the management of shared water bodies.
12.43 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now turn to Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) and marine  science related issues.
12.44 The Commission gave direct support for the recommendations of the 147th session of the Executive  Board concerning IOC, and implementation of the proposed administrative and financial flexibility for IOC,  with enhanced regional components.
12.45 Member States generally expressed their interest in reinforcing IOC programmes and associated  training and institutional capacity-building at the national and regional levels with a balance between marine  sciences, services and TEMA (Training, Education and Mutual Assistance). Support for the 1998 International  Year of the Oceans was given. The importance of strengthening the development and establishment of the  Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS) and its regional components was stressed.
12.46 Many delegates requested IOC to strengthen programmes relating ocean conditions to the prediction of  climatic influences on continents and areas composed of small islands, for example the relationship between  El Nifio in the Pacifïc and the development of droughts on the African Continent. Several delegates stressed the  importance of global observations of the world’s oceans in relating to the sustainable management of land  resources, including the continued assessment of coastal biological systems such as coral reefs and of pollution  through the use of sentine1 organisms.
12.47 The importance of IOC’s programmes in addressing natural hazards from the sea (tsunami, storm  surges, cyclones) was also emphasized.
12.48 Several delegates referred to the need for IOC to follow an interdisciplinary approach. In this respect,  delegates supported co-operation between IOC, MAB, IHP, IGCP and MOST. It was felt that IOC-MAB co-  operation should focus in particular on biodiversity and on the development of coastal zone biosphere reserves,  as well as on marine biosphere reserves, as we have already mentioned. The need to further specify the  objectives of the interdisciplinary project on Coastal Regions and Small Islands and to avoid overlap with IOC  was stressed.
12.49 1 now turn to the project on Environment and Development in Coastal Regions and in Small Islands  (CSI). Keen interest in, and generally strong support for this new project was expressed by a very large number  of delegates. It was singled out by many delegates as an important new initiative combining for the fïrst time  UNESCO’s natural and social sciences programmes in an interdisciplinary project addressing an issue of  common concern and of high priority for a majority of Member States. Indeed, many delegations referred to the  deteriorating state of their toasts as a result of conflicting resource use and extreme human pressures, and to  the threat of sea-level rise.
12.50 In this respect, the importance of fully involving IOC, MAB, IHP, IGCP and MOST in the  implementation of the project was emphasized. Several countries referred to the need to draw on outside  expertise through all phases of the project. Similarly, it was stressed that the project should be built on a  regional and subregional approach, taking into account the environmental and socio-cultural specifïcity’s  inherent to these regions and subregions, as well as existing governmental and non-govemmental programmes  and organs at the regional level.
12.51 The need for an integrated approach in trying to find solutions to problems of coastal regions and  small islands was fully endorsed. Several speakers emphasized the necessary linkages to CSI to, among others,  educational activities, biosphere reserves, remote sensing, as well as the second new interdisciplinary project  focused on cities, given the fact that urbanization is concentrated specifically in coastal regions.
12.52 Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 would flnally like to report on the  debate covering Programme II.2 on Advancement, transfer and sharing of knowledge in the social and human  sciences, Programme II.4 on Social and human sciences and social development, and item 7.5 on the  International instrument on the human genome.
12.53 Al1 speakers supported the strengthening of the social sciences in UNESCO. While it was recognized  tbat tbe natural science and the social and human science programmes were complementary, many speakers  voiced concern over the fusion of the two former major programme areas. Specific reference was made to the  fact that the success of all UNESCO programmes was dependent upon a strong social science programme.  Many speakers requested that the budget for the social sciences be increased and that the identity, autonomy  and visibility of a social science programme be preserved. Some speakers expressed regret that certain activities  that clearly concern the social science programme were presented within other programmes, thereby creating  overlap and confusion.
12.54 As concems Subprogramme 11.2.1 on Teaching, research and co-operation in the social and human  sciences, many speakers regretted that only very limited resources had been allocated to the activities relating to  university education, to research and to the transfer of knowledge. The importance of developing social science  disciplines, methodologies, training capacities and institutions was emphasized. In this context, several  delegations expressed their appreciation for the work of the International Social Science Journal in its six  language versions. Others highlighted the relevance of UNESCO Chairs in the social sciences and sustainable  development; and underscored the need for improvements in higher education in tore disciplines to stimulate a  democratic development process.
12.55 Under Subprogramme 11.2.2 - Philosophy and ethics, the re-organization of the philosophy division  was supported by a significant number of delegates, all of whom stressed the two main characteristics of  philosophy as being, on the one hand, an eftïcient transdisciplinary mol in the critical perception and  understanding of today’s world, and on the other an essential practice of free judgement, therefore linked to the  true exercise of citizenship. The decision to have philosophy considered apart from the usual sector received  much support, and delegates argued for this specifïc transversal nature to be reinforced. The Philosonhv and  Democracv project, based on tbe promotion of the teaching of philosophy as an important asset in the formation  of democratic values, was said to be a priority, especially by delegates of Eastern European countries. Its  implementation in different regions was encouraged, Bulgaria offering to host a regional conference on the  theme, as had the Republic of Korea previously. Some delegates expressed the wish that the journal Dioaenes  be published in the six UNESCO languages. Delegates expressed much enthusiasm for the establishment of the  series of annual UNESCO Philosonhv Forums (in French Les Rencontres nhilosonhiques de l’UNESCO)  describing it as a major event for the visibility of UNESCO on the intellectual scene, as well as an original  breakthrough in a world where critical analysis of concepts is at its weakest. The theme for the next Forum in  March, Who are we?, appeared to be at the crossroads of many questions expressed by Member States  concerning universality, multiculturalism, phenomena of ethics, or economic exclusion. The role of philosophy
725    in shaping UNESCO’s own ethical positions and statements was also clearly underscored as being essential to  the life of an Organization considered by the general public to be the United Nations’ intellectual agency.
12.56 1 shall now report on item 7.5. The drawing up of an international instrument on tbe protection of the  human genome. Many delegates acknowledged the absolute need for guidelines on ethics to be followed on  scientific and technological progress in disciplines such as genetic engineering and bioethics, etc., as well as  the general need to broaden the actions on ethics to other fïelds.
12.57 Many delegates underscored the quality of the work of the International Committee for Bioethics  (ICB). They confirmed their support for the preparation of a future declaration which Will re-affirm the  fundamental dignity, rights and freedom of each individual with respect to the human genome.
12.58 Delegates noted that this Committee has foreseen the publication of a World Directorv of Bioethics  Committees and Institutes with the help of the UNESCO National Commissions and National Bioethics  Committees.
12.59 The Commission took note of the report by the Director-General on the subject, and recommended to  the General Conference that it adopt the resolution figuring in paragraph 109 of document 28 C/38, as  amended by the Commission.
12.60 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now turn to Programme II.4 - Social and human sciences and human  development. The Management of Social Transformations (MOST) programme received very wide support in  the course of our debate. Several speakers announced the establishment of new National MOST Liaison  Committees and underscored the participation of their country in the programme. Important issues such as  family, gender, children, migration as a source of cultural pluralism, cohesion or conflict, poverty and social  exclusion, were raised as being particularly important to the three MOST themes. It was also pointed out by  many speakers that MOST should keep its thematic coherence, focus carefully its activities and to avoid  dispersion. Al1 speakers insisted on tbe major diffculty facing the MOST programme, which is inadequate  funding leading to a signifïcant imbalance between the funds available and the scope of the programme. It was  recommended that the fïve intergovernmental and international scientific programmes receive comparable  resources. The representative of the Director-General stated tbat, beyond the efforts being made by the steering  bodies and the MOST Secretariat, it was the degree of tïnancial and scientific support at the national level  which would ensure the success of MOST.
12.61 Many delegates underscored the key role to be played by social and human science research and poiicy  assessment in the follow-up to the major United Nations conferences, especially the Cairo, Copenhagen and  Beijing Conferences. The representative of the Director-General informed the Commission of the creation of an  intersectoral working team, co-ordinated by the Sector of Social and Human Sciences. Through such activities,  the social sciences Will be able to play their expected role in UNESCO’s contribution to the International Year  for the Eradication of Poverty in 1996, preparatory to the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty,  and the preparation of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (HABITAT II). A wide majority  of speakers expressed reservations over the integration of the social science programmes into the natural  sciences. In this regard, the Commission approved a draft resolution inviting the Director-General to preserve  the identity, autonomy and importance of the UNESCO social science programme.
12.62 Numerous speakers supported the interdisciplinary project Cities: Management of social  transformations and the environment which is co-ordinated by the Sector of Social and Human Sciences with  the participation of MAB and other programmes within the Science Sector. With regard to interdisciplinarity  between MOST-MAB-IOC-IHP and IGCP, it was pointed out that the participation of the social sciences in the  project on ‘Environment and Development in Coastal Regions and in Small Islands’ was promising, despite the  limited budget available.
12.63 Numerous speakers supported Programme 11.4.2 - Youth and social development. It was proposed tbat  a special session at the next General Conference be devoted to youth and sports. The importance of the world  survey entitled Tum the corner: tune in to the voung on the eve of the third millennium was underscored.  Youth unemployment, international exchange programmes for youth, strategies for combating violence in  media and sports were emphasized by many delegates as priority issues for this programme. Concerning the  development of cultural tourism, the existence of UNESCO’s Youth Card scheme designed to facilitate  international travel for Young people was noted. Activities Will be undertaken witb a view to obtaining a clearer  understanding of the relationship between sport and some of the major problems of contemporary societies. The
21  ethical dimension of sport, sport and physical exercise for all, sport and the environment, sport and traditional  cultures was underlined by delegates. Appeals were made by many speakers for contributions by Member States  to the Special Fund for Youth and to the International Fund for Physical Education and Sport (FIDEPS).
12.64 As far as the youth programme was concemed, the Representative of the Director-General stressed that  the Turn the corner survey would be conducted by Young people, and would involve a very wide variety of  partners, including different agencies of the United Nations and UNESCO Clubs. Innovative youth policies Will  be conducted with the active participation of Young people to combat exclusion and poverty and to seek a better  quality of life.
12.65 And now to close this oral report, Mr President, as already mentioned, and as 1 have already  mentioned on earlier occasions, allow me to express the concems of members of Commission III over the  methods of work of the General Conference with a view to further improving them. 1 refer in particular, to the  handling of the many draft resolutions submitted by Member States to the twenty-eighth session. While  recognizing that progress has been made towards the improvement of metbods of work, the delegates did  recognize tbe need for reflecting, during the coming intersessional period, on some steps that have already been  announced.
12.66 This concludes my oral report on the deliberations of Commission III. As far as the written report is  concemed, Mr President, you have in front of you documents 28 C/l46 and 28 C/l46 Add. and Corr., which 1  commend to the consideration of the General Conference. Thank you.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you SO much, Mr Ruivo, for this very comprehensive report on the work of Commission III. As  you mentioned yourself, this was the first time that the Commission discussed the natural sciences and social  sciences programme areas as a whole, bringing them togetber, as we have said, if not actually integrating them.
13.2 In front of you, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Ruivo said, you have the Draft Report of Commission III,  document 28 C/l46 and the corresponding addendum and corrigendum. These are the documents we are to  take note of, at the same time adopting the resolutions they contain. Are there any comments or observations? If  that is not the case, 1 shall take this to be your wish. It is SO decided.
13.3 And thank you, once more, Mr Ruivo, for your monumental work on a11 these issues. As 1 said earlier,
1 look forward to your observations concerning our working methods.  (Applause)  DECLARATION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE SUR L’EXECUTION DE L’ECRIVAIN  ET DIRIGEANT DE MINORITE NIGERIAN, KEN SARO-WIWA, ET DE PLUSIEURS  DE SES COMPAGNONS OGONI  DECLARATION BY THE GENERAL CONFERENCE ON THE EXECUTION OF THE NIGERIAN  WRITER AND MINORITY LEADER, KEN SARO-WIWA, AND SEVERAL OF BIS OGONI KINSMEN  DECLARACION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL SOBRE LA EIECUCION DEL ESCRITOR  Y DIRIGENTE DE MINORIA NIGERIANO, KEN SARO-WIWA, Y DE VARIOS DE  SUS COMPANEROS OGONI  ,IJEKJIAP~HHR I’EHEPAJIbHOfi KOHOEPEHIJMM B CBII3H C KA3HbIO  HRI’EPHMCKOIO IIMCATEJISI M PYKOBOJBITEJIR HAHMOHAJIbHOTO  MEHbIIIEIHCTBA CAPO-BHBA M HECKOJIbKHX EI’O COHJIEMEHHHKOB-OIOHPI  ï&8lf#j L~-JJL& 3’K.u +c~ & ,Wl y$.!1 LJ.c J319 djxsl  ;ir&I &mkJitI &k, JI &&iI titi, &I d&J &A&$I  k~#4~R~l~~~B~~~~~~ha i!FF -- %l%Bx+w&3zEE~~~~ti~~F~!  Draft resolution submitted bv Australia, Benin. Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, France, Germanv, Italv, Lithuania,  Portugal and Trinidad and Tobago
14.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have one remaining task today, and that concems item 15.5 which, we  agreed yesterday to include in the agenda, relating to the execution of the Nigerian writer and minority leader,
727    Ken Saro-Wiwa, and several of his Ogoni kinsmen. You Will find before you document 28 C/PLEN/DR. 14.  Since it has just been distributed very recently, 1 Will read it out, and then - 1 take it - we cari adopt it without  any kind of debate. It takes the form of a draft declaration.
14.2 ‘The twenty-eighth session of the General Conference of UNESCO was dismayed and indignant at the  hanging of the writer, founder-member of the Nigerian PEN-Club and television producer, Ken Saro-  Wiwa, together with eight fellow members of the Ogoni people of Nigeria.  The indignation felt by the Conference is made even keener by the fact that the Director-General of  UNESCO wrote to General Sani Abacha, the Head of State of Nigeria, on 16 January 1995, drawing  his attention to his country’s accession to the international instruments concerning human rights and  the rights of artists, and asking him to ensure scrupulous observance of the principles of equity and of  tbe rules of procedure in the tria1 of Mr Ken Saro-Wiwa and his fellow defendants, in accordance with  the ideals of UNESCO.  Following the death sentence passed on Mr Ken Saro-Wiwa and his fellow defendants, by a special  tribunal on 31 October 1995, the Director-General again addressed to the Nigerian Government a note  verbale and two letters urging clemency for the condemned men who always denied any involvement  in the murders of which they were accused, while nevertheless continuing to take responsibility for  their struggle for the survival of the Ogoni people and the protection of tbat people’s environment.  Neither the actions of the Director-General nor the numerous appeals by the international community  for clemency had any effect, since the Nigerian authorities upheld the sentence of the special tribunal  and hanged the condemned men.  Given the ethical role of UNESCO, which, among other things, assumes respect for a11 fundamental  human rights, tbe General Conference cannot remain insensitive to this act, the gravity of which is  accentuated by its irreversible nature.  The General Conference therefore pays a heartfelt tribute to the memory of the victims.  It protests vigorously against the action of the Nigerian Government, and most strongly deplores the  execution of the writer Mr Ken Saro-Wiwa and his eight fellow defendants.  It salutes the courageous and valiant Nigerian people for the daily struggle they are waging for the  establishment of the rule of law in their State.  The General Conference approves a11 the actions taken by the Director-General, and requests him to  report regularly to the Executive Board on developments in the situation in Nigeria regarding  violations of the rights of creation, and of freedom of expression, and movement affecting educators,  researchers, communicators and creative artists in the exercise of their functions.’
14.3 That is the text of the draft declaration. Can 1 take it that it is approved by this General Conference?  The delegate of the Russian Federation has asked for the floor.
15. r-H @EnOTOB (POCCdCKaSI @eflepaI@:  Bnaroflapro Bac, r-H ~pe~ce~aTwIb. Y Hac eCTb MaJIeIIbKOe IIpe~JIoxeHEfe II0 TpeTbeMy  OT KOHqa a63aqy. MFA nonaraeM, 9To sbIpaxaTb coxa.neHne - 3To CJIHIIIKOM MX~KO B AaHHoM  cnysae, II npennaraeM cnenyrornyro pe~akqmo: "reHepaJIbHaZ KOH@epeHyHR peLKIIXTeJIbH0  IIpoTecTyeT IIpOTHB aKTa KpaiiHe CypOBOii pacIIpaBb1, coBepIIIeHHoro HBrepHfiCKHM  IIpaBHTeJIbCTBOM Hari IIHCaTeJIeM KeH Capo-Brxea II BOCeMbK) ero COpaTHHKaMH". 3TO COKpaTHT  npeRnoxeHHe, qenaeT ero 6onee peruaTenbHbIM. Enaronapro.
(15) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. We have a minor suggestion concerning the third paragraph from the end. We  think that expressing regret is too mild in this case and we would like to suggest the following wording: ‘lt [the  General Conference] protests vigorously against the action of the Nigerian Government in executing the writer  Ken Saro-Wiwa and his eight fellow defendants’. This makes the draft more concise and more resolute. Thank  you.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Fedotov. 1 am now left with a very difficult problem, in tbe  interpretation into English, your suggestion came out exactly as what is in front of us in tbe text, yes, it is  exactlv the same. SO, would you please take the floor again on this.
17. r-H @EgOTOB (POCCnfiCKaS4 @e~epaqHR):  EnaroAapro, r-H npeJJCeJJaTX%JIb. x CBepXJI CBOii pyCCKHii TeKCT C +paHqy3CKHM TeKCTOM  - OHEI COBnaJJamT. kl B PJ’CCKOM TeKCTe, Il BO $IpaHqy3CKOM, KOTOpbIfi RBJIIIeTCR OpHIliHaJIOM,  rOBopItTCX 0 BbIpaXeHHE COXaJIeHHR II0 IIOBOJJy paCIIpaBb1. MbI IIpeRnaraeM CJIOBâ “BbIpaXeHHSZ  COxiJIeHm” y6paTb II CJJeJIaTb TeKCT 6onee XCHbIM II peIII&ïTeJIbHbIM, a HMeHHO: “OHa  PfXIIHTeJIbHO IIpOTeCTyeT IIpOTIXB aKTa KpaiiHe CypOBOH paCIIpaBb1, COBepIIIeHHOrO HHrepUiiCKBM  IIpaBHTWIbCTBOM Hari IIMCaTeJIeM KeH Capo-Bma H BOCeMbIO er0 COpaTHHKaMH”. Cnacn6o.
(17) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 checked the Russian against the French and the two versions coincide. And  both the Russian and the French, which is the original, talk of ‘expressing regret’ for the execution. We propose  deleting the words ‘expressing regret’ and making the text clearer and more resolute, by saying ‘It protests  vigorously against the action of the Nigerian Government in executing the writer Ken Saro-Wiwa and his eight  fellow defendants’. Thank you.
18. The PRESIDENT:
1 do apologize, but things are becoming more and more unclear to me. Now you seem to have dropped  the words ‘most strongly deplores’ or ‘most strongly condemns’. Please, tbis is a very serious matter. 1 have read  out a text which is the result of very careful, very delicate consultations among a good number of delegates.  And as you see, it is a very broad-based group of sponsors. Could we not let the text stand as it is? The delegate  of Brazil has asked for the floor.
(1% Mr MOSCARDO (Brazil) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, the Delegation of Brazil would like to join the sponsors and also to state that, unlike other  delegations, we believe this to be deplorable. It must be deplored, because we are the conscience of the United  Nations system and we must deplore what has happened in the most energetic terms. 1 think that the wording of  this declaration is in keeping with the indignation felt by the entire international community. Deplore is the Word,  there is no other solution, we must not use any euphemism. Thank you.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 1 would remind you that the word ‘deplore’ is taken directly from the wording  used by the Director-General, the fïrst time he commented on the execution. You have the floor, Ambassador  Fedotov.
21. I-n @EJI,OTOB (PoccatickaR QeAepanmr):  Enaro~apro Bac, r-H npenCenaTeJIb. MbI IIoJIaraeM, 9To 3Recb MbI HOJIxHbI BbICTyIIHTb  C MaKCLIMaJIbHbIM OCyXQeHHeM II BbIpaXeHlWM MaKCRMaJIbHOrO HerO~OBaHWl IX OCyXJJeHWI. K  co~aJrenm0, pycc~mt nepeson lIOJIyWUIUI TaKOl?, 9TO B HeM HeT 3TOii peIIIEïTeJIbHOCTH II HeT
(21) Mr FEDOTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. We believe that we should on this occasion react with the utmost  condemnation and express the greatest possible outrage and censure. Unfortunately, the Russian translation does  not convey that sense of resolve and sorrow. Thank you.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Well, in tbat case, 1 would appeal to the translation services, in co-operation with the delegation of the  Russian Federation, to see to it that the wording does reflect what 1 have in front of me here, in both the French  and the English texts. And with that 1 take it that we cari approve it? No, we cannot. Australia, you have the  floor .
23.1 Mr JONES (Australia):
1 would like to propose a couple of minor drafting changes. In lines one and two, we have ‘dismayed  and indignant’: 1 think ‘indignant’ is not a strong enough Word, although 1 am told by people who are better  versed in French than 1 am that this is a strong word in that language. But it is not SO in English. Indignant is  when you feel offended by something, but in a fairly superficial way. 1 would have thought that perhaps a better  formulation would be ‘dismayed and appalled at the hanging’; and that the next paragraph might begin with the  words, ‘The deep feeling of the Conference is made even deeper’, because that involves the notion of  indignation.
23.2 The other thing is that in the last paragraph, 1 think instead of saying that the General Conference  ‘approves’ the actions, 1 would use a stronger word - ‘endorses’. ‘Approves’ is rather a soft Word; ‘endorses’ is  stronger.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Must we really have a long debate on this? Benin has asked for the floor, and then Germany.
25. M. MONS1 (Benin) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je ne voudrais pas que nous entrions dans une longue  discussion sur ce texte. Je voudrais simplement dire que nous nous heurtons, semble-t-il, à une difficulté d’ordre  linguistique. Le libellé original étant français, il y a peut-être un problème de traduction en ce qui concerne  certaines expressions. Comme vous l’avez dit, Monsieur le Président, le libelle a fait l’objet de consultations et  le terme “indignation” en français est très fort comme on l’a déjà souligné, Je demanderai donc aux intervenants  de bien vouloir faire en sorte que ne soit pas sapé le consensus auquel nous sommes parvenus au prix de  patients efforts. Je vous remercie.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Well, that is exactly what 1 was going to suggest in response to the distinguished Australian  representative. 1 see no problem in using the English version, ‘apualled’, whilst keeping the word ‘indignée’ in  French. 1 see no problem with that, nor in making the corresponding correction in the following paragraph. As  to whether we put ‘auuroves’ or ‘endorses’, 1 hope that the latter is acceptable to Benin, because this is really a  question of nuances. Germany has the floor.
27. Mr SCHGFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 simply want to agree with the suggestion you have just made. And 1 wish  to thank Australia for the improvement of the English text. We do not feel that any changes in the French  original or the other language versions Will be necessary. But for the English, 1 think Australia’s proposa1 is  acceptable. Thank you very much.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Argentina has the floor.
(29) Mr MASSUH (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 would like to say that 1 am in complete agreement with what has just been  said by the representative of Germany and with the thoughts expressed by the representative of Benin. The  French text is very fitting and the Spanish translation is Perfect. Thank you, Mr President.
30.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. May 1 take it that with these suggestions made by Mr Barry Jones for the  English and with the changes to be made in the Russian version, as agreed earlier, we cari now endorse this  draft resolution. It is SO decided. Thank you very much.
30.2 The delegate of Nigeria has the floor.
31.1 Mr AKINLUYI (Nigeria):  Thank you, Mr President. The loss of life of anyone, anywhere, in this globe, cari be very sad indeed  and would understandably evoke intense feelings and emotions. This, we cari ail understand. But 1 must make  a few points clear.
31.2 Firstly, the trial being referred to here was a a trial of intellectuals. It was net a tria1 of artists or  poets. There were actual victims - four dead leaders in their community. As far as the Nigerian Govemment is  concemed, this was a case of murder in which people had been killed and in which the accused were tried  according to the due processes of the law.
31.3 Secondly, the complexity of Nigeria is not a phenomenon that cari be clearly or properly appreciated or  lightly dismissed or explained.
31.4 Thirdly, Nigeria considers this issue strictly as an internal affair which concems its sovereignty and  would therefore have appreciated non-interference in its interna1 affairs. We consider the condemnation of  Nigeria unfair and selective and therefore unacceptable.
31.5 However, Nigeria Will not allow itself to be diverted from its international responsibilities which it has  always assumed with absolute commitment and seriousness. Thank you.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador, and with that we conclude item 15.5. This also brings us to  the end of our programme for this aftemoon. We Will meet again tomorrow at 10 a.m. and our fïrst action Will  be to welcome the President of the Republic of Kazakstan, His Excellency Mr Nursultan Nazarbaev. The  meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 17 h.40  The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesi6n a las 17.40
3acenanne 3aKpbIsaeTcrr B 17.40  &JI &y O,f’ ULJI 2 -L+A CA>  &XT- 17 E+Ky%m”