Première séance plénière
25 octobre 1995 à 10 h.10  Président : M. SAYYAD (Yémen)  First plenary meeting
25 OKTR~~R 1995-r. B l$lO  IIpencena-renb: CAHR,Q (HeMeH)    OUVERTURE DE LA SESSION PAR LE CHEF DE LA DELEGATION DU YEMEN,  PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF YEMEN,  TEMPORARY PRESIDENT  APERTURA DE LA REUNION POR EL IEFE DE LA DELEGACION DE YEMEN,  PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL  OTKPbITME CECCMM I’JIABOfi J@JIErAHMkI I?IEMEHA, BPEMEHHbIM  IIPEJICEQATEJIEM  .OJj3JI 0L.a pv uq +$+tl zp jls .  (The Conference hears a rendering of an extract from Verdis Nubncco, by the UNESCO Choir,  ‘Les Voix Unies’)  (The Conference observes one minute’s silence)
(1.1) Mr SAYYAD (Yemen), Temporary President (Translation from the Arabie):  MS Attiya Inayatullah, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of the  Organization, heads and members of delegations, representatives of governmental and non-governmental  organizations, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to welcome you all. 1 am SO pleased  and honoured in my capacity as President of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference to have been  asked to preside over this session until such time as the President is elected in accordance with the provisions of  Rule 37 of the Rules of Proceclure of the General Conference. 1 therefore cleclare the twenty-eighth session of the  General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization open, and invite you  now to listen to a choral piece by the UNESCO choir to mark the opening of this session.
(1.2) Thank you very much to the choir for such a clelightful and artistic rendition
(1.3) Ladies ancl gentlemen, since the end of the twenty-seventh session, a number of people, who, through  their activities ancl ideas, have contributed towards the realization of UNESCO’s ideals and objectives, have  departed this world for a better place. We pay tribute to these people and to a11 the men ancl women who have  died for the sake of peace. 1 would ask you a11 to stand for one minutes silence in honour of their memory.
(1.4) Ladies ancl gentlemen, it has become a tradition for the President of the General Conference to describe  the session he is cleclaring open as historic. If 1 do SO today, it is not out of a desire to maintain tradition nor in  deference to that custom, but rather in order to express my pleasure at the opening of this distinguished session,  with which we begin to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of UNESCO.
(1.5) Fifty years! This number has a real symbolism that prompts us a11 to evaluate the roacl we have  travelled, which has brought the Organization to where it is today. We must therefore take stock of what has been  achievecl and look to new achievements and developments in the future. The achievements have been truly great  and have been appreciated by most countries of the worlcl ancl by a variety of cultural, educational and scientific  circles. The Organization has built its international reputation on what it has done to eraclicate illiteracy, train  countless numbers of teachers, clefend the freedom of artists, journalists, writers and scholars, protect historical  ancl archaeological sites, establish networks of scientific co-operation, take part in establishing infrastructures,  enhance moral values, seek to achieve real equality between men and women ancl grant full rights to women. This  Organization is at the forefront of the fight for human rights ancl respect for the cultural iclentities of both peoples  and inclividuals, not to mention the formulation of new ideas and methods that have inspirecl Member States to  make improvements to their national policies in the fields of education, science and culture. 1 have been able on  more than one occasion to experience at first hancl the reputation the Organization currently enjoys, which clerives
5    its principles from the noble ideals and objectives for which it was founded, despite the crises and difficulties it  has encountered.
(1.6) Indeed, our Organization has not been free from crises or difficulties since its foundation. Its dual  governmental and intellectual nature has condemned it to a state of persistent instability and clashes. This dual  nature, consecrated by the founding fathers, is what really makes UNESCO not a technical organization but a  political one in the truc, dynamic sense of the Word. The crises and difficulties through which the Organization  bas passed have been many and painful but, if we look carefully, we are bound to record our admiration and  appreciation for the outstanding ability of this Organization, whose fiftieth anniversary we now celebrate, to  remain steadfast and adapt to the demands and challenges of the present day
(1.7) UNESCO was set up in the aftermath of a global catastrophe in order to help in the intellectual and  moral reconstruction of the world or, to put it more precisely, to help in the reconstruction of its northern half,  which at that time virtually controlled the whole of the other half. Gradually, it was able to bring new States into  the fold, which not only increased the number of Member States but also exposed it to the new and diverse  visions that those States brought with them. The number of Member States has increased tïvefold in 50 years but,  more importantly, UNESCO has continually managed to divers@ its activities and methods of work.  Nevertheless, there are those who now question the usefulness and importance of this Organization, particularly  in view of the changes that have occurred in the world. However, a critical look at the nature of these changes  Will demonstrate that UNESCO is here to stay, and that humanity is in greater need today than ever before of its  ideals and principles.
(1.8) The world has indeed changed; the second half of this Century has witnessed transformations that are  unprecedented in the history of humankind. Let us a11 remember the Bandung Conference in 19.55 and the  tremendous hope it gave to the peoples of the Third World. Let us a11 remember the end of colonialism, the fa11 of  the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the joy of millions of people in Europe and throughout the world. Let us a11  remember the end of the Cold War and the language of intimidation and confrontation.  (Mr Sayyad continues in English)
1.9 Ladies and gentlemen, the change has not been only political. It has affected a11 human activities.  Science and technology have made incredible progress; communication has become the principal motor of the  world as well as the abject of enormous stakes; the economy, globalized as it is now, does not recognize  frontiers and, if we are not careful, neither Will it recognize cultures; different professions, ways of life, modes  of consumer habits and even of nourishment have, in general, changed radically throughout the world. Today,  in a11 societies, the place and the role of the individual - man and woman - are at the very heart of present  evolutions, aspirations and anguish.
1.10 It is an authentic cultural upheaval which humanity is experiencing today. The importance of human  rights issues has become crucial, apartheid has crumbled, and almost everywhere democracy has suddenly  begun to move, reformulating, sometimes in a brutal fashion, the question of the relation between the  individual and the collectivity, the State and private enterprise, something that the Western countries, which  took this road a long time ago, too often tend to forget.
1.11 The North-South divide, which was for a long time superposed on the rift between East and West, has  lost much of its intensity: numerous countries of the South have experienced dynamic development while  extreme poverty has reappeared, on a massive scale, in the countries of the North. Our founding fathers perhaps  would not recognize UNESCO as it is today. But, also, would they be able to recognize the world and humanity  as they knew them 50 years ago?  (The President continues in Spanish)
(1.12) At the aame time, ladies and gentlemen, we corne up against difficulties that are new in nature, scale  and, above all, complexity. Despite a11 the progress made we often feel helpless, as though our attainments were  inadequate, as though we had forfeited the direction of our lives. As the philosopher said, ‘I know nothing except  the fact of my ignorance’.
(1.13) The environment has become a fundamental concern since human activity may destroy or irreversibly  modify the earth’s ecosystem; yet individual countries cari no longer corne up with the answers. Despite aome  encouraging signs, population growth continues to be an essential issue for the future. Violence in its many forms  is still a cruel feature of inter-group relations: regional conflicts go on taking human lives while crime and drugs  seep into urban living and, at the same time, cities continue to expand the world over, sometimes immoderately  and often with a mushrooming of poverty, unsociability, intolerance and exclusion. The values of one and a11  become less steadfast and sometimes meaningless; as we approach the turn of the Century, a11 regions of the world  are seeing the advent of tremendous spiritual and ethical expectations.  (M. Sayyad poursuit en français)
1.14 Mesdames et Messieurs, comment nos civilisations peuvent-elles répondre à ces besoins ? Voilà, à mon  avis, la question qui justifie plus que jamais une institution comme l’UNESCO. Un philosophe français, Edgar  Morin, écrivait rkcemment qu’une “réforme de la pensée” était impérative pour garantir l’avenir de l’espèce  humaine. N’est-ce pas précisément ce à quoi l’UNESCO s’attache depuis peu, en cherchant à promouvoir ce que  nous appelons une “culture de paix”, selon la superbe expression que nous avons choisi ? Recréer les conditions  de la dignité de chaque individu, étendre les multiples tissus de solidarités nouvelles, changer dans les esprits  ce qui peut contribuer à la haine, au ressentiment ou à la violence pour qu’y soient élevées les défenses de la  paix, selon l’intuition étincelante de notre Acte constitutif, agir aux côtés des décideurs comme des victimes,  n’est-ce pas là que résident aujourd’hui les priorités nouvelles que notre temps assigne à notre Acte constitutif ?
1.15 Utopie ? Bien sûr. Les sceptiques n’ont jamais cru à l’action morale, qu’elle soit le fait de mouvements  religieux, d’associations ou d’institutions plus officielles. Beaucoup sans doute ne croyaient guère en l’UNESCO  elle-même au moment de sa fondation. La seule réponse à cela, c’est l’action, c’est le débat, c’est la persuasion,  c’est la présence, c’est l’anticipation et la prévision. Dans cette perspective, Mesdames et Messieurs, il ne faut  pas hésiter à faire preuve de courage, car le “C” de l’UNESCO, c’est assurément la culture, mais cela doit aussi  être le courage. De même, le “S” ne signifie pas seulement la science, mais aussi la sagesse et la “solidarité  intellectuelle et morale de l’humanité” et le “E” de l’UNESCO ne veut pas simplement dire Education mais  aussi éthique. Quant au “U”, il est pour moi le symbole de l’universalité, qui sera tou.jours la vocation de  I’uNEsco.
1.16 Mais il nous faut, Mesdames et Messieurs, être à la hauteur des enjeux et des défis qui s’imposent à  nous. Les débats techniques étroits, la guérilla administrative et financière ne feront pas avancer la Conférence  générale d’un pas en ce sens. Pas davantage que la frilosité des positions ni la médiocrité des ressources  accordées parfois comme à regret à notre budget par certains pays.
1.17 Mesdames et Messieurs, en cette année de tolérance, il est important que nous nous rappelions tous la  prière à Dieu de Voltaire dans son Traité sur la tolérance : “Puissent tous les hommes se souvenir qu’ils sont  frères ! Qu’ils aient en horreur la tyrannie exercée sur les âmes . . . ne nous haïssons pas, ne nous dechirons pas  les uns les autres dans le sein de la paix, et employons l’instant de notre existence à bénir également en mille  langages divers . . . ta bonté qui nous a donné cet instant”.
1.18 En ce moment du cinquantième anniversaire, nous sommes saisis, Mesdames et Messieurs, de  propositions qui peuvent donner lieu à un grand et riche débat entre nous sur la nouvelle image que nous  voulons donner de l’UNESCO. Encore faut-il le vouloir, encore faut-il en débattre. C’est pourquoi, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, je vous invite, au cours de cette session, à proposer, à confronter vos idées, à creuser, je  vous invite simplement à inventer, à oser l’UNESCO de demain. Je vous remercie.  (The President continues in Arabie)
(1.19) Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure and honour now to invite MS Attiya Inayatullah, Chairperson of  UNESCO’s Executive Board, to deliver her statement.  ALLOCUTION DE LA PRESIDENTE DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  DISCURSO DE LA PRESIDENTE DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbICTYIIJIEHHE IIPEQCEAATEJDI PICIIOJIHPITEJIbHOI’O COBETA  @&Jr Q&oJl L&J z0.K
2.1 MS INAYATULLAH (Pakistan), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference,  MrDirector-General, honourable delegates, Excellencies, media representatives, ladies and gentlemen, in most  cultures a welcome is given not just with words, but also with the gesture of open arms or outstretched hands.  That gesture signifies the openness that stems from confidence, the warmth that stems from friendship, the  strength that stems from trust. In UNESCO the blazing glory of the array of flags behind me are those  outstretched hands and open arms, and they symbolize, as they stand there together in their silent, colourful  dignity, the web of interwoven solidarities and friendships that is this family of nations and their peoples.
2.2 Mr President, it is my great pleasure and distinct honour to convey to aI1 those present this moming, at  this magnificent and heartening gathering of the world’s nations and peoples, my own words of welcome,  which 1 humbly add to Your Excellency’s, on behalf of my colleagues on the Executive Board, and very, very  warmly in my own name.
2.3 TO the delegations of States attending this Conference for the tirst time, or returning after a period of  absence, 1 extend most special greetings. 1 trust you Will quickly realize, meeting as we do for a common  purpose, that the Board is entirely at your disposa1 during the period of this session of the General Conference.
2.4 Representatives of observer missions, particularly those of former Member States, kindly also receive  my greetings and the expression of our sincere hope that your observer status Will soon be a thing of the past.
2.5 A welcome to a11 other observers from the myriad partners, intergovemmental and non-governmental,  through whose co-operation and friendship this Organization is substantially strengthened. Indeed, they are  integral to our work and our success.
2.6 Mr President, it is a moving moment for me to share this podium with you for one of the last  occasions, and 1 should like to seize this opportunity to share with you all, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  the comfort and stimulation that it has been for the Executive Board and the Secretariat, headed by the  Director-General, to work, in the period since you were a11 last assembled here, as a team of which the  President of the General Conference, Mr Sayyad, has been a most significant player. Sir, you have my gratitude  for providing the guidance and showing the constant concern which your high office demands.
2.7 UNESCO’s world during the General Conference is a meeting of its cosmos and, like a planet, it  continues its path through the stars. During our discussions over the next few weeks it is my hope that we Will  be moved forward by the constant inquisitiveness and quest for knowledge that is humankind’s distinctive  feature. Our task here is to encourage that quest, humbly, patiently, passionately, discerningly. It is to ensure  that the multiple obstacles and shortcomings that seem to get in our way do not distract us from our overriding  objective of building peace in the minds of humankind, and therefore in the lives of women and men. Charged  as we are at this General Conference to determine the course of UNESCO into the third millennium, 1 am  confident that we Will all seek to make our mark.
2.8 Excellencies, with 50 years - give or take a few days - behind us we a11 know that UNESCO,  institutionally, is making its mark. At this, the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference, may a spirit of  friendship and common purpose prevail as it has over the last two years in the work of the Executive Board,
1  and may we corne to the end of our Conference, and reach 16November, the day of our celebrations, with a  sense of achievement that is worthy of the occasion. Thank you.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, MS Inayatullah. 1 would like to thank you personally and a11 the Members of the  Executive Board for the outstanding part they played in following up and implementing the resolutions of the  twenty-seventh session of UNESCO’s General Conference. Thank you very much.
(3.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure and honour now to invite Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-  General of the Organization, to take the floor.  ALLOCUTION DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  DISCURSO DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  BbICI’YIIJIEHHE rEHEPAJIbHOI’0 JJMPEKTOPA  yWI J&Il L&  ,kis’f-Si#%
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  ‘It is for us to clear the channels tbrough which may flow from nation to nation the streams of  knowledge and thought, of truth and beauty which are the foundations of true civilization’. These words were  spoken in London on 1 November 1945 at the opening of the Conference for the establishment of the United  Nations Educational, Scientifïc and Cultural Organization. What a moment of deep human tension! What a  moment of far-sightedness and of spiritual strength! The reason 1 quote them today is obviously because of their  special resonance as we approach UNESCO’s fiftieth anniversary. But also because they demonstrate the  enduring relevance of our mission. 1 quote them, finally, because they were spoken by a woman, Ellen  Wilkinson, Minister of Education for England and Wales and President of the London Conference.
4.2 In a year marked by the largest conference in history on women, 1 am pleased to recall that the London  Conference was presided over by a woman. She was also one of those we have to thank for putting the letter ‘S’  in UNESCO and making science one of its major fields of activity.
4.3 Other women played a part, alongside Ellen Wilkinson, in the conceiving of UNEZSCO. Therefore, to  speak of the ‘founding fathers’ of the Organization is a misuse of language that amounts to something more  than a semantic error.
4.4 Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ministers,  Observers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 welcome you to UNESCO House, where 1 trust you Will feel at  home, whether delegates or observers, senior officiais or experts, newcomers or old hands. 1 am happy to greet  SO many friends and acquaintances to whom 1 have reason to feel particularly grateful.
4.5 1 wish to express my particular gratitude to Mr Sayyad, President of the General Conference, whose  tcrm of office ends today, but who Will, 1 know, remain a close friend and supporter of UNESCO.
4.6 1 would also like to offer a special word of thanks to MS Inayatullah, Chairperson of the Executive  Board, and to say how much 1 have admired her skill, courtesy and commitment to the Organization’s aims.
4.7 1 should also like to join with the President of the General Conference in paying tribute to a11 those  personalities who have given SO much of themselves in the service of our ideals.
4.8 1 wish, fïnally, to extend a specially warm welcome to the three States that have become Members of  the Organization since the last session: South Africa, the Marshall Islands and Vanuatu. 1 trust they Will  discover in UNESCO the climate of friendly co-operation they have a right to expect.
4.9 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the last day of the present session, we shall celebrate the  tïftieth anniversary of the adoption of our Constitution. This session is also taking place at a moment of history  frequently seen as the end of one age and the beginning of another. Finally? you have the task at this session of  deciding on the Medium-Term Strategy that Will take our Organization beyond the year 2000. The session is  therefore an unusually important one. 1 hope this Will be reflected in the spirit of our proceedings and in the  impetus they Will give to our Organization through a renewed expression of confidence and the remobilization  of efforts.
4.10 In the last few days in New York, the Membcrs of the United Nations have reaffirmed their support for  the institution that holds out the most important promise to our children and their children: sparing them the  horrors of war. Fifty years after its creation, we cannot claim victory but we cari point to real progress. New  threats now cal1 for new approaches, new structures, new modalities, new mentalities. Our chief concem must  be pcace-building; peace-building to avoid the scourge of war; peace-building to overcome poverty, illiteracy  and hunger; to give everyone - and this is the role of UNESCO, the intellectual arm of the United Nations - free  access to educational facilities; to promote the empowerment of human beings through better sharing of  knowledge. This is freedom and the true sense of the pursuit of happiness.
4.11 Addressing you two years ago, 1 spoke of my preoccupation concerning population growth and my  belief in education as the key to meeting this challenge. Today 1 feel both reassured and vindicated. The role  that education already plays, and the increased role it could play, in solving the major problems of the planet  are today universally recognized and proclaimed. Education is a powerful means of laying the foundations for a  culture of peace, improving hygiene, health and overall living conditions in rural and disadvantaged areas,  limiting population movements and migrations, combating violence and increasing the involvement of every  Citizen in the life of the community. Only lifelong education for a11 - and the word ‘lifelong’ is a crucial addition  to our education for a11 programme - cari bring about a reduction in the intolerable asymmetries and injustices  that our lopsided world perpetuates, where it does not actually accentuate them. Al1 the organizations and  programmes of the United Nations system now make provision in their activities for education, training and  information. The World Bank, for example, lias tripled its loans in the educational sector since 1987. A week  ago, at the Fifth Ibero-American Summit held in Argentina, the 21 Heads of State present a11 expressed their  faith in the potential of educational action. Let there be no doubt about this: education is essential for the  transition from force and imposition to reason and dialogue; it is the indispensable key for moving, at the dawn  of a new Century, from a culture of war to a culture of peace.
4.12 On this anniversary occasion, 1 have carefully reread the basic texts of our Organization and the  thoughts expressed by those who met in London 50 years ago to bring UNESCO into being. One distinguished  speaker, Prime Minister Clement Attlee of the United Kingdom, singled out the ‘life of the mind’ as one of the  most important domains of international public life, which he saw as vital to the promotion of a climate of  peace and understanding. It included, he said, not only education ‘in a11 its branches and at a11 its stages’ but  ‘the whole intellectual realm’ - the sciences, the humanities, the fine arts and the world of ideas. Yes, we are  simultaneously the expression and the instrument of the world intellectual community. At this time of  UNESCO’s ‘refounding’, we must be closely attuned to our essential constituency - as indeed we are. Aware that  the realms of the mind are crucial to the construction of a world of peace and solidarily, the intellectual  community continues to place its faith in us. One lias only to think of a11 those personalities who SO generously  rally to the cause of UNESCO, increasing bath our potential and our impact. Let there be no doubt about mis:  UNESCO cari Count - is counting - on an immense, invisible alliance of educators, artists, scientists, journalists  writers and supporters of a11 kinds, whose incomparable strength is that of a guiding vision, of the Will, of a  constantly renewed faith in the distinctive capacities of human beings. This alliance, with its worldwide pool of  talent, cari and Will permit and accelerate the transition from peace-keeping to peace-building, from a culture of  war to a culture of pedce.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en français)
4.13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, j’ai dit paix et solidarité : cette “solidarité intellectuelle  et morale de l’humanité” dont notre texte fondateur constate qu’elle est la base de la vraie paix, c’est celle qui  prend pour cible les disparités sociales, qui lutte contre l’intolérance, qui secoue l’indifférence, qui jette des  ponts - matériels certes, mais aussi affectifs - entre le nanti et l’exclu, entre le sage qui n’a rien et l’écervelé aux
10    mains pleines. Il s’agit bien d’une solidarité active, difficile, entre individus que beaucoup d’éléments opposent,  dune solidarité du divers. Celle-là, qui s’établit entre des langues et des cultures différentes, des croyances et  des habitudes différentes, des modes d’être et de penser differents, n’a rien a voir avec l’autre, celle qui coalise le  proche, qui institutionnalise le conforme : elle est beaucoup plus forte, car elle a été trempée par la différence,  par l’acceptation de cette différence, par le partage avec I’Autre. Les liens que tissent l’apprentissage et la  fréquentation de 1’Autre sont indestructibles : à travers la diversité, ils nous permettent de découvrir notre  humain dénominateur commun. Le pluralisme culturel, nous le constatons chaque jour, fait notre richesse et  notre force. Unis et divers, nous pouvons tout vaincre.
4.14 L’interdépendance des nations et des peuples qui composent le monde est devenue patente. Les  problèmes transnationaux, quelle que soit leur nature - environnementale, culturelle, économique -, ne peuvent  trouver de solution à l’échelle nationale, qu’ils depassent. C’est par des stratégies internationales, mises en  oeuvre sous l’égide de l’Organisation des Nations Unies, que ces problemes peuvent être traités. La pauvreté, le  sida, la pollution, le changement climatique, la drogue, la violence ne reconnaissent aucune frontière -nationale  ou ethnique, culturelle, naturelle ou politique. Tant pis pour ceux qui auraient voulu se retrancher derrière leurs  barrières douanières, leur chaîne de montagnes, la couleur de leur peau ou leurs “habitudes morales”, pour  employer l’expression stendhalienne. La globalité des périls n’effraie pas ceux qui croient à l’ouverture, à  l’efficacité de l’effort en commun, à l’enrichissement de la pluralité, et à la force de l’union. Ceux-là sont les  vainqueurs de demain. Car l’esprit de paix, de justice, de partage ne connaît, lui non plus, aucune frontière.
4.15 A l’interdépendance vient s’ajouter, dans la conscience collective, l’imbrication des divers problèmes  du monde. L’approche sectorielle, spécialisée, disciplinaire, a montré ses faiblesses, de moins en moins  pardonnables à mesure que s’intensifie la complexité du réel, ou peut-être seulement l’appréhension que nous en  avons. La bioéthique s’impose comme un exemple de domaine qui “traverse” plusieurs disciplines. La  construction de la paix exige, par définition, une approche transdisciplinaire faisant fond sur toutes les  compétences, tous les savoir-faire, dans les nombreux domaines où s’acquièrent et se forgent les mentalités et  les attitudes.
4.16 Cette conscience de l’interdépendance des hommes et de l’imbrication du réel est clairement apparue  depuis quelque temps dans la demarche politique au niveau le plus élevé et dans les enceintes les plus  pertinentes. Au sein du système des Nations Unies, reflet de l’état des relations internationales, un cycle de  grandes conférences a mis en lumière les liens entre les différents défis que nous pouvons relever:  environnement-développement, éducation-population, par exemple. Jomtien, New Delhi, Vienne, Le Caire,  Copenhague, Beijing, autant de villes qui ont accueilli ces rendez-vous de la globalité. J’ai la conviction que le  souci de “coordination”, maître-mot du système des Nations Unies, correspond enfin à une préoccupation réelle  de complémentarité. Le sérieux avec lequel est assuré, par divers partenaires, le suivi des décisions prises à l’un  ou l’autre des grands rendez-vous mondiaux m’incite aussi à l’espoir.
4.17 Enfin, je constate avec une vive satisfaction, à travers analyses, dialogues et documents, ce que nous  pourrions appeler le retour de l’humain. Trop longtemps oubliée ou négligée, la dimension humaine s’impose à  nouveau comme la référence et la finalité tout à la fois. Notre approche du développement social, du  développement “humain” s’est assouplie, élargie, enrichie. L’être humain réapparaît sur la scène économique,  avec ses impondérables - failles et grandeurs. L’aider à se forger un avenir qui lui convienne sera sans doute  plus difficile que lui imposer des “ajustements structurels” satisfaisant à la logique des chiffres. La tâche sera  aussi . . . à la mesure de l’homme. Il ne faut pas douter : en redonnant à chaque être humain toute la portée de sa  dignité et le plein rayonnement de son esprit, la grande transition d’une culture de guerre à une culture de paix  sera possible.
4.18 Mesdames, Messieurs, “Dignité, égalité et respect de la personne humaine”, ‘justice, liberté et paix” :  ces valeurs se suivent en rangs serrés, comme vous le savez bien, dans le Préambule de notre Acte constitutif.  Elles sont nos phares, aujourd’hui tout autant qu’hier, car elles sont intemporelles, et chaquejour à défendre.  L’UNESCO n’est pas, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale nous le rappelait tout à l’heure, une  institution “technique”. Sa mission, qui porte sur la promotion de valeurs universelles, est d’ordre éthique ;  aucune crainte, aucune considération sur l’évolution du monde, aucun opportunisme ne viendront écorner ce  mandat. Si par malheur ces valeurs venaient à être défaites à l’échelle du monde, l’UNESCO en serait le dernier  bastion. Dans notre combat de chaque jour, nous porterons haut notre bannière éthique, refusant de nous  “établir à l’étroit”, selon la belle formule de Jean Starobinski.
4.19 Ce volontarisme laisse d’aucuns sceptiques ? 11 faut croire pour créer. La tolérance recule ? Au-delà de  l’Année des Nations Unies, nous consacrerons des moyens plus efficaces à cette exigence. La barbarie se
11    répand? Celle de l’idéologie nazie, totalitaire, n’a pas empêché, il faut le rappeler, les fondateurs de l’UNESCO  de rêver à un avenir fraternel. La souffrance vous paraît trop grande pour notre aptitude à la vaincre ? Je citerai  Valéry, dans son Alphabet : ” Rendez (...) énigme pour énigme. Elevez ce qui est mystère en vous à ce qui est  mystère en soi. Il y a en vous quelque chose d’égal à ce qui vous passe”. Ayons confiance en nous-mêmes. Ne  doutons pas. C’est en retrouvant la foi des origines, cette force de la foi de nos fondateurs, que nous rendrons  hommage à leur mémoire, que nous assumerons notre vocation e.t que nous serons capables d’apprivoiser  l’avenir.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(4.20) Mr President, Ides and gentlemen, They cari because they think they cari’‘’ exclaimed Virgil. Yes, for  people to believe in us, to be credible, we must be convinced of the essential importance of the mission entrusted  to us ad of the possibility of fulfilling it. Al1 countries havejust recognized at the Heaclquarters of the United  Nations the key role that has been played by the United Nations in thc past, as a major meeting place and forum  for détente. Al1 have agreed that it is now necessary to go on from peace-keeping to peace-building, that it is now  fitting as the Charter SO lucidly proclaims - to return to ‘the peoples’, to give each Citizen a central part as  protagonists in this new stage.
(4.21) No country, however strong, cari go ahead on its own. The ‘global village’is turning into a reality.  Isolationism is out. The United Nations may, from the vantage point of recent world conferences, be seen as the
13    focal point of a11 disagreements, of a11 differences, as a builder of bridges. Nations reflect the changes in the  minds of the citizens, where UNESCO’s founders decided to build the defences of peace, where many walls still  remain - walls of poverty, of exclusion and of lack of solidarity - which must now corne down, like the Berlin  Wall. There are barriers of another kind that we must overturn in order once more to feel the emotion of the great  spiritual conquest that seized us a11 in November 1989.
(4.22) TO achieve these objectives- or to approach them, because Utopias are never fully achieved- we must set  ourselves some very practical courses of action: 0.7 per cent of GDP as assistance from the rich to the poor  countries by the end of the Century; 6 per cent of GDP as the minimum investment in education for the year 2000;  ensuring greater representation of women in a11 of society’s decision-making bodies; applying the latest advances  in telecommunications for learning without frontiers. Al1 these are gocd examples of how to produce the radical  changes that observance of our Constitution requires.
(4.23) The present disparities represent a real threat to peace and harmony, and they impede the fulfilment of  the promise made in the Charter of the United Nations. On the one side we have unlimited availability of material  goods, which becomes a spiral of waste; on the other, there is the precarious existence - as the very limits of  survival - Ied by the bulk of the world’s population. In a11 spheres of action of the United Nations, and most  particularly in those of UNESCO, the verb to share is taking on particular significance. Only thus Will those who  have the most appreciate what they possess - that is, Will know its price and value - and reduce the asymmetries  that today loom very darkly over our immediate future.
(4.24) 1 have frequently used Da Vinci’s image of the ship in danger of capsizing: in these circumstances, when  thc only important thing is to remain afloat, there are no rich or poor on board, no women or men, no Young or  old, II» whites or blacks. There are only passengers in danger before a common fate. Now, more than ever, this  image is appropriate. For this reason, at the opening of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference,  marking the fiftieth anniversary of our founding, at a time when public opinion ~011s are perilously taking the  place of far-qighted leadership, when a short-sighted concern with urgent issues is winning out over the lucidity of  the wutçhers and sentinels, 1 consider it fitting to make an appeal from the Organization to ‘moral and intellectual  solidarity’ SO that the whole of the human species may know and remember that the Declaration of Human Rights  is universal, that it applies to all. ‘Al1 free and equal’, without exception. Without exception. Any discrimination  on the grounds of race, religion, sex or age is essentially inadmissible. Any supremacy is improper. Any  imposition, cspecially by force, especially by violence, and a11 the more SO by extreme violence, is wholly  unacceptable. May it be known and remembered that it is for the whole of societv, without divisions to ensure the  universality of human rights without exception.
(4.25) Exclusion and discrimination are wounds in the beating heart of the world. But they are, more than  anything, wounds of enforceable scale and consequence for our children. They are malignant wounds that we  must now staunch, with resolve and steadfastness, based on the principles that unite us and that are enshrined in  our Constitution: justice, freedom. equality and solidarity. No, there must never be any more aggression and  killing in the name of twisted interpretations of religions invariably based on love. No, justice cari have no colour.  No. racism ad xenophobia cannot again pit brother against brother of the same human species. This species  possessed of the capacity to create, to invent, to dream. Was it no more than a dream that Martin Luther King  had? Do not his example and that of Mahatma Gandhi serve as a beacon in the night to us?
(4.26) Ladies and gentlemen, we must break down the walls in our min& where they have been erected. The  walls of insularity, mistrust, and indifference. Barriers that separate the poor and needy from the better off, walls  that separate barren land from fertile land. Only human beings matter. Only each human being matters. At the  fifth Summit of Heads of State and Government held recently in Bariloche, Argentina, the President of Colombia  remintlçd us of the perspicacity of the great Venezuelan writer, Arturo Uslar Pietri, when he spoke of ‘the wasted  people’. This is the greatest poverty: infertile seeds, grain falling on stony ground. By not accepting difference  - which is our great wealth - we forget the ties that make for close-knit, calm and harmonious communities. The  vicious circle of difference, indifference ad conflict must and cari be broken by tolerance and by respect for  diversity and the uniqueness of the ‘Other’. This is peace. Peace means that we a11 henefit from scientific  advances, and that none of us lose our lives on the battlefield or in poverty, through want of the tare that is in fact  available. Peace means replacing weapons with words. Peace means, above all, believing. It means credibility,  starting with one’s own. For we cannot deceive ourselves with appearances- appearances of solidarity,  appearances of democracy. The leap from forma1 democracy to true democracy requires large doses of  authenticity. The urgently needed changes that we desire Will corne about only in a context of true democracy.  And true democracy includrs evervone.
(4.27) It is not the political - polarizing - Will of a few that Will change the course of events. Only a11 oeoDle  cari effect that change of direction. Everyone. Marginalized people are at the root of the failure of governance.  Changes are effected at the level of each person, at the level of citizens’ daily behaviour, at the level of the  microcosm of each human being. Otherwise there Will be no changes.
(4.28) We, the peoples’, reads the Charter of the United Nations. ‘On behalf of their peoples’, states the  Constitution of UNESCO. You, the representatives of the peoples, are UNESCO. And it is to the peoples whom  you represent that we owe the fact that this General Conference should mark a turning-point in the discouraging  trends with which we are faced. It is to the peoples whom you represent that we owe the consolidation of  accomplishments, the reaffirmation of our guiding principles, and the refoundation of the Organization whose  duty is to build peace in the mind of each woman and man through education, science, culture and  communication. For their sake, we must act swiftly and with anticipation.
(4.29) We must keep the promise that we made 50 years ago to succeeding generations, thoxe generations  whose rights require us today to fulfil our obligations. It would therefore be desirable, 1 think, if the opinion of the  General Conference could be expressed, at least as a starting-point, in a declaration on ‘Human Rights and Future  Generations’.
(4.30) Eight years ago, on my appointment to this office, which is SO great an honour, 1 recalled Albert Camus’  terrible condemnation: They were despised, for, being able to achieve SO much, they ventured SO little’. We  must enter resolutely into the immense realm of the spirit and extinguish a11 the smouldering embers of war. Al1  tonether, we cari.. Al1 different, and a11 united. This is our wealth, our strength and our hope: the hope of the  Young people and the children who must be the inspiration for the resolutions of the General Conference as we  begin this new chapter in the life of the Organization. Thank you.
(3 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for such an important and lucid statement, which has given  the heads and members of delegations a clear picture of the nature of the tasks entrusted to us.  CONSTITUTION DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  CONSTITUCION DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  C03JJAHME KOMHTETA HO lYIPOBEPKE HOJlHOMOQïti  &ïG’dl &liJ & ;i;33 J&ü  &~&$liïfi#a;E~  JL* lJs-2 .Jl$Jl lb AAÜCI J.2 ?,Y
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, the item before us now is the establishment of the Credentials Committee. As  you a11 know, the Committee consists of nine countries as proposed by the Temporary President with due regard  being given to fair geographical distribution. With that in mind, permit me to suggest that the Committee be  composed of the following countries: Barbados, Colombia, Germany, Iraq, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Nigeria  ancl Uzbekistan. The Creclentials Committee Will therefore be made up of these nine countries and, in accordance  with paragraph 2 of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Committee Will be  responsible for electing a Chairperson. 1 think there are no objections to that.
(6.2) This resolution is thus adonted. Thank you very much.
15    ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS : DECLARATION DU PRESIDENT PROVISOIRE  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS: STATEMENT BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT  DECLARACION DEL PRESIDENTE PROVISIONAL RELATIVA A LAS CONTRIBUCIONES  ATRASADAS
3A~OJIXEHHOCIW II0 B3HOCAM: 3ARBJIEHME BPEMEHHOIO IIPEACEAATEJDI  &y ur;3I & :s_shl crKlJs.AYI  fflmew: %itiÈh%tKJti%
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabie):  Ladies and gentlemen, we now go straight on to the issue of arrears in contributions, that is, Member  States who are late in paying their contributions. Permit me to read out the relevant legal provisions in French.
7.2 Conformément au paragraphe 8 (b) de 1’articleIV.C de l’Acte constitutif, le droit de vote est accordé  aux Etats membres à condition qu’ils se soient acquittés du paiement de leurs contributions financières. Les  alineas (b) et (c) du paragraphe 8 sont formulés comme suit:  “(b) Un Etat membre ne peut participer aux votes de la Conférence génerale si le montant des  sommes dues par lui au titre de ses contributions est supérieur au montant de la participation  financière mise à sa charge pour l’année en cours et pour l’annee civile qui l’a immédiatement  précédée.  (c) La Conférence générale peut néanmoins autoriser cet Etat membre à participer au vote si elle  constate que le manquement est dû à des circonstances indépendantes de la volonté dudit Etat  membre.”  Au 20 octobre de cette année, 46 Etats membres avaient des arrierés de contribution superieurs au  montant de leur participation financière pour l’année en cours et l’année qui l’a immédiatement précédée. Mais  il y a certains Etats qui ont payé depuis le 20 octobre. Ce sont les Etats suivants : le Nigeria, le Mozambique, la  Zambie et le Rwanda. Ces quatre pays se sont acquittés de leurs arriérés. Lorsque le Conseil exécutif a examiné  cette question à sa 147e session, des communications avaient eté reçues de 21 Etats membres risquant de perdre  leur droit de vote.
7.3 Vous trouverez ces communications en annexe au document 2W56 Add., mais Je voudrais souligner  que la Lituanie a payé ses arriérés Jusqu’à la fin du précédent exercice biennal avant la clôture de la session du  Conseil et sa communication peut par conséquent être retirée. Je voudrais souligner également que deux autres  communications ont été reçues après la fin de la session du Conseil, de la République centrafricaine et de la  Republique dominicaine, et qu’elles ont également etC annexées au document 28C/56Add.
7.4 Je voudrais vous informer également qu’au.jourd’hui nous avons reçu une lettre de la Bolivie,  conlirmant qu’un chèque a été envoyé pour le paiement des contributions de cet Etat membre. Nous avons  également reçu une lettre de la Délégation permanente du Soudan qui confirme la volonté du gouvernement  soudanais de payer ses arriérés.
7.5 Le Conseil exécutif, à sa 147e session, a recommandé à la Conference genérale, compte tenu de  l’importance de la question, de considérer l’ensemble des problèmes liés à l’examen des communications reçues.  Je voudrais également attirer votre attention sur la partie 1 du document 2W56 portant sur les  recommandations que le Conseil exécutif a formulées à sa 146e session en ce qui concerne les procédures que  doivent suivre les organes directeurs lors de l’examen des demandes des Etats membres qui invoquent les  dispositions de l’article 1V.C de l’Acte constitutif, paragraphe 8 (c).
7.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, comme cette question est très importante pour l’ensemble des Etats membres  et pour l’execution du programme de l’UNESCO, je vous propose que ce point de l’ordre du Jour soit soumis au  Bureau de la Conférence générale dont la première séance a lieu demain matin à 9 heures. Evidemment, le  Bureau examinera comment cette question pourrait être traitée par nous-mêmes, c’est-à-dire par la Conférence
1  générale. Je pense que la situation est claire et que vous acceptez la proposition. Merci beaucoup. II en est ainsi  décidé.
7.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais maintenant préciser qu’aujourd’hui tous les Etats ont le droit de  vote, provisoirement, en attendant la décision du Bureau.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX  ORGANIZATION OF WORK  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS  OPl’AHM3AuMR PAEOTM
3145%\ +z  IfwslP  x.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais rappeler que l’article 29 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence  générale, relatif au Comité des candidatures, prévoit ce qui suit:  “1. Le Comité des candidatures comprend les chefs de toutes les délégations qui disposent du droit  de vote à la Conférence.
2. Le chef d’une délégation peut désigner un autre membre de sa délégation pour assister aux  séances et voter à sa place.
3. Le représentant de chaque délégation au Comité peut être assisté d’un autre membre de sa  délégation.”
8.2 L’article 29 prévoit aussi que le Comité élit son prkident. Si vous êtes d’accord, je vais inviter le  Comité des candidatures à se rkunir immédiatement dans la salle IV, qui se trouve derrière la salle 1. Je  voudrais aussi inviter le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs à se réunir dans la salle VIII, qui se trouve au  premier sous-sol. La réunion commencera immédiatement après la suspension de la séance plénière. 11 en est  ainsi décidé.  x.3 Maintenant, Mesdames et Messieurs, j’invite le Secrétaire de la Conférence gknérale à VOUS  communiquer quelques informations.  Y. Le SECRETAIRE :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais informer les délkgations à la Conférence qu’à l’occasion du  cinquantième anniversaire de l’Organisation, l’architecte japonais Tadao Ando a réalisé pour l’UNESCO un  espace de méditation aux confins du jardin japonais conçu par lsamo Noguchi et que cet espace sera inauguré  par le Directeur général au.jourd’hui à 13 heures.
(1Q The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arahic):  Ladies and gentlemen, permit me now to acljourn this plenary meeting to allow the Nominations  Committee and the Credentials Committee to hold their meetings straight away. We Will resume this plenary  meeting at exactly 3 pm. Thank you very much.  La séance est levée à 11 h.45  The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 11.45