Troisième séance plénière
26 octobre 1995 à 10 h.15  Président : M. KROGH (Danemark)  Third plenary meeting
26 October 1995 at 10.15 a.m.  President: Mr KROGH (Denmark)  Tercera sesion plenaria
26 OKTII6PR 1995 r. B 10.15  npenceJIaTenb: T-H Kpor (fiaHkia)
39  --    ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPTAIHH3ALJHSI PAlSOTbI (rtponon>KeHae)  ($) 3Lo.d $G  I~W# ( !$G)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, the third plenary meeting is called to order. Welcome to a11 of  you. Our first task is to adopt documents 28 C/2 and Add. which concern the organization of the work of the  session.
1.2 In addition to what you lïnd in these two documents, 1 shall inform you about a few other matters  agreed upon this morning in the General Committee. The first point is that in regard to the Draft Medium-  Term Strategy (28 C/4), a number of draft resolutions have already been received by the Secretariat and a  deadline has to be established for the admissibility of such draft resolutions. The General Committee decided  that the deadline would be at the end of the plenary debate, in other words, at the end of Friday, 3 November.  SO those delegations wishing to submit draft resolutions concerning the C/4 document should do SO before that  deadline.
1.3 Secondly, 1 should inform you with regard to communications from Member States concerning arrears  in contributions that this question has, for the moment, been referred to the Legal Committee. Member States  which havc communications to make in this respect are thus advised to contact the Chairperson of the Legal  Committee. which Will advise the General Committee of the General Conference, before we take any fïnal  decisions on this issue.
1.4 Ncxt, in regard to the provisional budget ceiling - and 1 emphasize the word ‘provisional’ - for 1996-
1997. this item has becn referred to the Administrative Commission, which is beginning its work this morning.  The Chairperson of the Commission intends to suggest that this item be taken up as one of the very lïrst ones  on its agenda Later on, of course, it Will be set before you here in the plenary.
1.5 With thcse remarks, 1 shall ask you whether there are any comments, any remarks concerning the  organization of the work of the twenty-eighth session of the General Conference? Obviously, there Will be  ad.justments along the way - that happens a11 the time. But we have to take a decision in order to have our legal  framcwork in order. May 1 Lake it that documents 28 C/2 and Add. are adopted? 1 see no ob,jections. It is SO  decided. Thank you.  INTRODUCTION AU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE  INTRODUCTION TO THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  INTRODUCCION AL DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL  BBEJ@I-IME I< OSCYX~EHHIO BOrIPOCOB OswEI?l rIOJIMTMI<M
2.1 Thc PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we IIOW corne to general policy debate. This, of course, is of the utmost  importance for the General Conference, as it constitutes a turning-point in the sense that this is the fïrst  occasion on which we are to adopt a Medium-Term Strategy. We had Medium-Term Plans prcviously; this time  it Will be the more flexible instrument of a strategy. In taking this action, we shall provide the main orientations  of the Organization which, as bas been said by the Director-General, Will take us into the next Century and  indeed into the next millennium.
2.2 Our task Will certainly not be an easy one. We have to prcpare a new generation, and at the same time  to teach the present gencrations to live together in an increasingly fragile, sophisticated and interdependent  environment. 1 would like at this point to thank the Director-General and the Executive Board for the quality of  the documents beforc us, which contain excellent guidelines for the period that is opening up before us.
2.3 We have two documents as the basis for the general policy debate. One is the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy for 1996-2001, the other is the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. Obviously they Will be  fundamental for our debate, although of course other material Will also be considered.
2.4 Now, in order to get the debate off to the best possible start, 1 shall give the floor first to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, MS Attiya Inayatullah; she Will be followed by the Director-General.
3.1 MS INAYATULLAH (Pakistan), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to one and all.  The twenty-eighth session of the General Conference is indeed in many respects a rather special one,  coinciding as it does with the liftieth anniversary of UNESCO’s founding. It is therefore appropriate that we  make it a landmark event for the future; and such an opportunity indeed we, the 184 Member States gathered  here, have because we are called upon to adopt the Organization’s Medium-Term Strategy for the period 1996-
2001. And that Will determine UNESCO’s vision, strategy and programme into the next millennium.
3.2 It is hence with a sense of honour and great expectation that 1 introduce the general policy debate and  also present the Executive Board’s report to a11 assembled here from every continent of the globe, to fullil our  responsibilities to the UNESCO house of education, communication, science and culture. 1 propose to present  only the highlights of my report; however, a more detailed elaboration Will be available in the information  document that Will shortly be circulated (28 UINP.5): let us remind ourselves that brcvity is the sou1 of wit and  think of the parish pastor who said of speeches, ‘for the first ten minutes you speak to the SOU~, for the second  ten minutes you speak to the wall, and for the third ten minutes you speak to the Devil’.
3.3 My report is divided into four sections. 1 shall begin by commenting on the experience of the Board  during its first term with its new composition and structure.
3.4 It may be recalled that through a General Conference amendment to the Constitution, at the twenty-  seventh session, for the lirst time, you elected Member States to the Executive Board. Yes, as my predecessor  said, a page of UNESCO’s history had been turned. It has also been rightly said that the distance matters no1 - il  is only the first step that is diffcult; and SO it was with some trepidation that 1 stepped into the office 01  Chairperson of the Board.
3.5 Excellencies, you Will no doubt be eager to know how the Board functioned over the last two years. It  is with much gratification that 1 share with the General Conference an assessment of our institutional  performance in the words of a voice that matters: ‘the 1994-1995 Executive Board was one of achievements,  both in quality and in quantity’.
3.6 The Executive Board as an institution - you Will a11 agree - is ageless. Many feared that in our new  form we would become faceless. Their fears cari be allayed, for in this repository of ‘intellectual solidarity’ that  is UNESCO, Member States represented on the Board have invalidated any such charge.
3.7 Distinguished delegates, one of the major objectives 1 set myself on assuming stewardship of the  Executive Board was to ensure that its agenda and proceedings corresponded as closely as possible to its  constitutional ma.ndate. Thereforc, the General Conference Will no doubt applaud the Executive Board for  deciding to receive a report from the Director-General entitled ‘Exccution of the programme adopted by the  General Conference’. Replacing the customary oral report, the introduction of this practice has enabled the  Board fully to exercise its responsibilities. 1 am grateful to the Director-General for his positive and responsive  co-operation in this regard.
3.8 Discussion under this agenda item has thus assumed new relevance; whereas in thc pas1 the report of  the Director-General was only formally noted, it is now the institutional mechanism whereby the Board  undertakes its constitutional function regarding the monitoring of programme execution as approved by thc  General Conference. It is indeed my expectation that subsequent Boards Will wish to continue to give focal  attention to this matter SO that this agenda item remains, as it should be, an important feature of the  Organization’s govcrnance and indeed the cornerstone of the Board’s work.
3.9 Ladies and gentlemen, it rapidly became obvious that this Board, with its new composition, obcycd  new dynamics. In addition to thc delicate issue of the placement of new Member States and the specifïc  mandate to examine the working methods of the General Conference, we had to tackle what is undoubtedly the
41    heaviest of work-loads that any Board experiences, which is that pertaining to the elaboration of the  Organization’s Medium-Term Strategy.
3.10 The necessary balance therefore haJ to be struck between the need for effective use of time and  resources, and the imperative of not devaluing decisions by over-stretching Board Members and small  delegations. Our successors Will need to keep this carefully in mind. In the same vein, and for the sake of the  sanity of the Chairperson, 1 strongly urge a rationalization of the duration of the Board’s sessions to permit  dialogue and informed decision-making which should not be vitiated by tight schedules and excessive cost  consciousness. Again, being mindful of UNESCO’s resource constraints, the Executive Board voluntarily  exercised a measure of economy in its own work by deciding on changes in its travel cost arrangements.
3.11 While 1 am on the subject of cost consciousness, 1 should like to make a persona1 suggestion  concerning the question of Member States’ payment of arrears. This issue is as intractable as it is painful: we a11  know that each of the Member States gathered here fully accepts its obligations; we a11 know that the resolve to  pay on the part of these States is unquestioned; and we also a11 know that their ability to pay is in some cases  very severely hampered - to give just one example, let me refer to the effects of structural adjustment  programmes, or SAPs which indeed ‘sap’ their resources. Thus, might it not be possible to ask the Director-  General and the Executive Board to study the idea, in the case of extreme stress, of incorporating in payment  plans UNESCO swaps whereby assessed contributions could be converted into local currency values for the  undertaking of mutually agreed activities?
3.12 Mr Prcsident, the Board’s new dynamics implied a careful monitoring of the working methods and  application of new balances regarding the role of its Commissions. During the biennium, the Expert Group of  the Finance and Administrative Commission has matured enough for it to be commended as a need-related  institutional mechanism of the Board. In this context, 1 should also like to draw your attention to the new  working method introduced during this biennium of holding joint meetings of the Programme and External  Relations Commission and thc Finance and Administrative Commission. This initiative responds to a  recognition of the char linkage between programme and financial matters. However, with a view to  maximizing the return from these experiments, it Will be advantageous for the next Board to review the  functions and working methods of both the Expert Group and the Finance and Administrative Commission, as  well as the relevance of joint meetings of the Commissions, which furnish the interface, and could indeed  incrcase bath productivity and eftïciency.
3.13 Ladies and gentlemen, the new composition and the ‘transitional’ features of the period my  chairmanship covered necessarily engendered a spirit of innovation regarding the Board’s working methods.  This was indced an opportunity 1 personally welcomed becausc the rather tired S~U&S quo working methods - 1  fclt - needed to loosen up, diversify and be interactive. Therefore, with a view to meaningful discourse with the  Sccretariat and the permanent delegations, and to cater for the complexities of the Board’s oversight and  plamiing functions, a number of innovations which proved highly productive, directional and cost-effective  were introduced in the Board’s working methods, including discussions in parallel regional working groups on  topical issues such as decentralization, as well as working luncheon meetings on UNESCO’s priority  programmes and special information and discussion sessions on particular aspects of the life of the  Organization and its Secretariat. These latter bave included sessions on UNESCO staff renewal and  re,juvenation and the quest for cquitable geographic distribution through the Young Professionals Programme;  the innovative transdisciplinary multi-sectoral EPD Project; and, most recently, the all-important matter of  LJNESCO’s communication strategy.
3.14 Fully mindful that UNESCO is mandated to be an intellectual forum, during this biennium the Board  encouraged the work of the recently establishcd International Committee on Bioethics, as well as the work of  the World Commission on Culture and Development and of the International Commission on Education for the  Twenty-First Century. The Board has ensured that the outcome of these independent commissions is available  to delegations, in the expectation that they Will facilitatc our delibcrations, specifically in the identification of  the alliance bctween culture and development and in the examination of how to equip individuals, through  education, effectively to direct their lives.
3.15 Last but not least, it needs to be said that thc single most important factor that has made a11 these  achievements possible is undoubtedly the person of thc Director-General. 1 thank him for our open, detailed and  mcaningful consultations, for the quality of our two-year dialogue, for periodically sharing bis poems with us,  and for forming, together with the past President of the General Confcrence, Mr Ahmed Sayyad, and myself. a  sound management-governance team, because such teamwork is the sine qrta non of a vibrant organization. But
3  above all, may 1 thank the great woman behind this great man - his wife Celes - for her friendship and  recognize her signifïcant contribution as a supportive partner to the Director-General.
3.16 Mr President, 1 should now like to move on to the salient decisions taken by the Board over the last  two years. The four matters 1 wish to highlight are: the Organization’s forward planning; the placement of new  Member States; the working methods of the General Conference; and the arrangements for co-operation with  non-governmental partners.
3.17 It is clear that the greatest proportion of the Board’s time over the last two years has been taken up, and  rightly SO, with the preparation of the C/4 and C/5 documents, together with their complements, the Board’s  own recommendations on these two documents, which corne under the references 28 C/6 and 28 C/9, as well as  the addenda to these documents. We began the process as early as Spring 1994, when we gave indications to  the Director-General concerning the preparation of his preliminary proposals, the focus at that stage being on  conceptualization. An important recommendation in this regard is the shift from the past tixed-plan concept to  that of strategic planning. The adoption of this latter mode immediately places UNESCO’s programmes and  activities in a dynamic, futuristic mould - one that is flexible and responds to in-built evaluation and external  needs.
3.18 Outlines of documents 28 C/4 and 28 C/5 were presented in Autumn 1994 to the Board, which made a  carefully elaborated set of important recommendations. A few of the salient features of these discussions which
1 wish to highlight were: fïrstly, recognition that the two central pillars of UNESCO are peace, given its  interdependence with development, and reaffrmation of its ethical mission and its role in the promotion of  universal values; secondly, CO-ordination of effort with the United Nations system, particularly strengthening  upstream contributions and inter-agency projects; thirdly, reinforcement of the notion of lifelong education for  all and renovation of the teaching/learning process, including values education; fourthly, allocation of half of  programme resources to direct activities in the field; and finally, the rapprochement of the programmes in the  natural and the social and human sciences fïelds without loss of the separate identities of these areas.
3.19 These recommendations were taken into account in the preparation of the final drafts of documents
28 C/4 and 28 C/5 which, ladies and gentlemen, have been submitted for your consideration. As for the C/6 and  C/9 documents, these are presented additionally, as it were, by both the Executive Board and the Director-  General as complementary to the C/4 and C/5 documents.
3.20 During the recent autumn session of the Executive Board, we completed our work by furthcr  considering a few outstanding questions, which are reproduced as addenda to documents 2X C/4 and 28 C/5. In  this regard, 1 draw your attention particularly to the Board’s observations concerning respectively the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the World Heritage Centre, the Human Rights ‘Observatory’  and the Volunteer Unit.
3.21 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Board’s discussions on the questions of the Organization’s  forward planning brought home time and again - and it came through loud and clear - that the culture of peace  is UNESCO, and at this time of commemoration of its 50 years of existence, 1 must admit to being personally  gratified that we should have encapsulated a concept which at one and the same time is a clarion-cal1 for future  action and a strong reaftïrmation of the Organization’s abiding tore mission. It is the patient striving through  education which Will promote the message of peace. Let us allow ourselves a good measure of optimism: the  countless activities around the globe during this year of tolerance have issued forth a resounding ‘no’ to violence  and shown how much the world and its peoples - particularly youth - want peace.
3.22 The Organization’s strategies and plans for the coming years are a blucprint for action by UNESCO,  through to and beyond the turn of the millennium. They are - we believe - the best possible response to the  many pressing problems and challenges of our time in the fields of cducation, the sciences, culture and  communication, bearing in mind our unique peace-building role within the United Nations system and the  scarce resources at our disposal. The Executive Board commends documents 28 C/4 and 28 C/5 to you, together-  with its own recommendations in documents 28 C/6 and 28 C/9, because we believe, as Shakespeare said: ‘thcy  Will enrich the time to corne with smooth-faced peace, with smiling plenty and fair prosperous days’.
3.23 Excellencics, 1 should like now to move on to the placement of new Membcr States, a matter rcfcrred  to the Executive Board for a definitive solution by the General Conference. As alluded to earlier, one of the  testing grounds of the effectiveness of the changed composition of the Board was in the new interactions  between Board Members and Permanent Delegations. In this regard, 1 must pay tributc to the manner in which
43    Member States have, under the guidance of the Chairpersons of the Electoral Groups, negotiated, in an  informa1 intersessional spirit of co-operation and a quest for consensus, the delicate question of the placement  of new Member States. 1 am indebted to a11 Member States for tbeir sense of solidarity and their patient and  indeed successful efforts in coming to a solution. We cari allow ourselves a measured sense of collective  achievement, in SO far as the Executive Board has submitted for your consideration a package pertaining to the  placement of new Member States and the size and composition of the Executive Board and the subsidiary  organs, thus fully responding to the resolution on the subject passed by this assembly at its twenty-seventh  session.
3.24 At this point, 1 should also like to draw attention to the General Conference resolution calling on the  Board to examine intersessional mechanisms. The proticiency, productivity, no-cost factor and informa1  working of this mechanism, under the guidance of the Chairpersons of the Electoral Groups, prompts me  strongly to recommend that the Board continue, on a need husis, to establish intersessional ad hoc groups in the  manner agreed upon by the Board at its 146th session, rather than resorting to forma1 machinery. Interestingly  enough, this matter was itself addressed by an ad hoc intersessional group.
3.25 1 next refer to the General Conference resolution addressed to the Executive Board on the working  methods of the General Conference. In compliance, we made an intensive input to the preparation of  documents. TO the past President of the General Conference, Mr Ahmed Sayyad, we owe a deep debt of  gratitude for bis distinguished contribution over the biennium to this important matter. However, the question  has taxed the discussion skills of the Board, and perhaps at times also its patience, particularly in the course of  lengthy discussions in the Special Committee.
3.26 Old habits die hard, and 1 noticed, throughout the process, a curious and intriguing mix of welcome  desire for change and innovation, and fear of the unknown, a11 the more SO when set alongside the Board’s  ability to tackle other difficult issues rather than shy away from them. That said, 1 look forward to this General  Conference, through Commission 1, examining the working methods of the Conference, and refer you to the  relevant document. This item is of specifïc importance, in view of the dissatisfaction expressed by some  Member States with regard to the format and proceedings at the last session.
3.27 As an example of what 1 am alluding to, 1 would like to invite the attention of Member States - in the  hope that they Will address the issue at the prescnt session - to thc vast number of draft resolutions deposited  with the Secrctariat in advance of the General Conference. The Executive Board has recommended to the  General Conference mat, with a view to the twenty-ninth session, the Board examine the admissibility of draft  resolutions. 1 believe ii is in the realm of the possible mat, at the present session, we may examine the  admissibility criteria; mis Will greatly facilitate subsequent examination by the Board. The purpose of this  exercise Will be to rationalize the current process. It is only the Member States that cari individually and  collectively answer such questions as: how many draft resolutions cari each of the 1X4 Member States submit?  Should draft resolutions be sponsorcd by more than one Member State? Should there be a cciling on the  financial implications of draft resolutions? Could it be envisaged that draft resolutions with budgetary  implications are only adopted if other activities are correspondingly dropped? Distinguished delegates, this is  not a matler for the Director-General or the Secretariat, SO 1 urge a11 Member States to address the matter with  the seriousness it warrants at the present session of the General Conference. This is an invitation to the  Conference to cast the spotlight on ourselves, to innovate, change, amend and adiust, thereby ensuring that our  own governing bodies are dynamic, run efficiently and smoothly, as befïts an institution gearing itself for the  next Century.
3.28 Lastly, as someone who for years lias been closely associated with civil society at the grass-rools,  national and international levels, 1 cannot pass up the opportunity to bail the proposals, which the Board  commends to you, for an in-depth review of the Organization’s arrangements for co-operation with non  governmental organizations, responding to the emergent role of civic organizations in countrics which seek to  promote democracy. These are a11 questions, honourable ladies and gentlemen, which the Board has faccd and  at times wrestled with during the past two Yeats, and 1 should like to take this opportunity to thank a11  Members for their understanding and support to the Chairperson in responding to the new dynamics as and  when they became manifest.
3.29 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 now wish to pass on to my report on the outstanding events during the life of  this Board. The Executive Board’s four sessions played host to a number of distinguished personalities -  occasions which provided us with the opportunity to broaden our knowledge of the activities of external  partners or of topical issues. Over the two-year period, we were thus honoured with the visits, as our special
3  guests, of Nobel Laureate Rigoberta Menchti, His Highness Prince Karim Aga Khan, and Professor Leo Esaki,  Japanese Nobel Prize-winner. We were also privileged to receive the President of Lithuania, the Prime Minister  of Mauritius and the President of Bolivia. The Board’s understanding of UNESCO’s all-important co-operation  and CO-ordination within the United Nations system and with other intergovernmental bodies was greatly  helped by its most useful sessions with MS Bertini, Executive Director of the World Food Programme;  Mr Somavia, Special Co-ordinator for the Copenhagen Summit; Mr Llewelyn Smith, Director-General of  CERN; Mr Zinsou, former President of Benin, who came to speak to us about the Francophone community; and  just a few days ago with Mr Ayalla Lasso, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In  connection with the latter meeting, 1 should like to add, in passing, that UNESCO has just concluded a  memorandum of co-operation with the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights. This human rights  co-operation essentially establishes our complementary role, the essence of which is for the Committee on  Conventions and Recommendations - as in the past - not to acljudicate but exercise moral pressure, in the  strictest confidence, in respect of communications received on human rights complications in UNESCO’s fïelds  of competence. The other complementarity we cari expect with the High Commissioner is the strengthening of  our human rights network through our unifying structures of schools and universities throughout the world.
3.30 Excellencies, a most noteworthy event during the course of this period was the holding of the final  meetings of the Board’s Spring 1995 session in Fez, at the generous invitation of His Majesty the King and the  Government of Morocco. UNESCO is its Member States and such visits to Member States are, if 1 may say SO,  to be strongly encouraged, particularly when they are at no extra cost to the Organization. 1 am pleased to  reiterate here the gratitude of the Executive Board to the authorities and people of Morocco for their invitation  and generous style of hospitality.
3.31 We were most privileged to acknowledge the presence, in our Board room, on the opening day of the  Spring 1995 session, of MS Brigitte Mabandla, Deputy Minister for Arts, Culture, Science and Technology of  the Government of South Africa. We do a11 earnestly welcome back this country into our midst and pay a  tribute to the sagacity of the symbol of Africa’s struggle, Nelson Mandela, for his immediate recognition that  slavery is only half abolished, emancipation is only half completed if millions of free people with votes in their  hands are left without education, inadequate education or wrong education. TO this Member State, as also to the
25 others which have joined UNESCO in recent years, 1 wish to take this opportunity to address a special  message of welcome.
3.32 And now, ladies and gentlemen, 1 corne to the fourth section of my report, where you Will kindly  permit me some persona1 reflections. Each day we are flooded with new headlines about our fractured world.  Each day the messages transmitted are collectively shameful. There is no let-up in the offensives of violent  elements and the United Nations peace-keeping ability is facing a serious crisis of confidence. For these and  other reasons my belief in the need to forge the United Nations peace-building mission through UNESCO has  been strengthened, as also has my belief that UNESCO, a universal UNESCO, is needed more now than ever  before. May 1 add that after some of what we have been seeing and hearing over the last few days, 1 am  emboldened to say that leaders who fïnd UNESCO irrelevant to the future need promptly to be considered  themselves for redundancy.
3.33 Ladies and gentlemen, seeing UNESCO from its apex, may 1 share with you that it is a busy world for  those who work; it is a productive world for people of action; it is a constructive world for men and women of  faith. 1 have had the opportunity during the last two years to taste the salt of UNESCO: it has a lot of flavour.
3.34 My first encounter was Granada revisited. This haven, with a centuries-old tradition of tolerance, was  host to UNESCO’s International Meeting ‘Peace the Day After’. It brought together for the first time after the  Washington Reconciliation Yasser Arafat and Mr Shimon Peres. Equally important was the fact that it brought  together intellectuals from Israel and Palestine.
3.35 My last encounter was with Cambodia. The people of this land of the Khmer have in the recent past  been the victim of the most ghastly forms of man-made violence and strife. Today it is a nation on the mend;  UNESCO’s presence is of crucial relevance, and in King Norodom Sihanouk UNESCO has a friend, who  expounded on the redevance of UNESCO’s areas of competence in preparation for the twenty-first Century.
3.36 Since tolerancc was part of the message 1 received, 1 think 1 cari allow myself to mention the privilege
1 had, this summer, on Bastille Day, of attending, in Paris - the capital of our tireless and graciously solicitous  host countryt France, whose delegation 1 particularly greet - a sound and light spectacular sponsored by  UNESCO in the name of tolerance. Millions of people vibrated with UNESCO’s message of peace and tolerance
45    that evening under the Eiffel Tower, the magie of which was created by the inspired genius of one of our most  dedicated Goodwill Ambassadors - Jean-Michel Jarre.
3.37 Since an important means for Board Members to monitor the execution of the programme approved by  the General Conference is to participate not just in Board session but in the Organization’s activities, it is most  noteworthy that in UNESCO’s busy world earlier referred to, many Board Members are actively involved with  UNESCO in their own countries. Others carry their renowned expertise to different parts of the globe and are  exposed to UNESCO’s world. Yet others are active participants in a host of Paris-based UNESCO activities. 1  applaud, one and all, my colleagues for their substantive contributions. 1 restricted my own attendance to a  small representative sample of the different types of meetings in which UNESCO is involved; but with the  active support and assistance of my colleagues in a true spirit of teamwork, 1 cari genuinely say that the  participative leadership and interactivity, which 1 called for in my tenure during my acceptance speech  following my election two years ago, was a wish that came true. The life of the Board was indeed a rich mixture  of shared passion, sadness, conviction and bustle. There were even moments of sheer hilarity that refreshed the  air and contributed to a sense of togetherness. Suffice it to mention one. such moment: the sudden, unannounced  molecular breakdown of a Boardroom chair leg and the equally sudden disappearance from view of the chairs  eminent occupant, precisely at the moment when the Director-General was reporting on the solidity of the  UNESCO Chairs Programme! 1 cari assure you that no harm came to the person concerned. 1 hope you are not  a11 feeling too uneasy in your seats at present.
3.38 Mr President, at this time when we a11 still have the recent experience of Beijing at the forefront of our  minds may 1 take this opportunity to compliment UNESCO’s team of women - and some men! - for their  cxemplary individual and collective effort at the Fourth World Conference on Women. Excellencies, with an  eye, and ear and a mind to the exhortations of the Platform of Action, and in recognition of the contribution  made by the Board’s women representatives over these last two years, 1 implore that in the future dynamics of  the Executive Board, Member States make every effort to achieve the best possible gender balance. The energy,  commitment, pragmatism, experience and intellect of women must be galvanized by Member States in the  service of UNESCO from the grass-roots to the highest policy and decision-making levels.
3.39 Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey a special message of thanks to each and every person who  bas been involved in the stimulating work of the Board since it was elected. Some of us have had positions of,  let us say. higher apparent profile than others, who have nevertheless steadfastly served to the full in their  respective capacities; others still have had no place in the decision-making, but their advisory, technical or  backstopping roles have been indispensable to the final outcome. Two gentlemen in particular have most  courteously and generously helped me to carry this load. The past President of the General Conference,  Mr Aluned Sayyad, and the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, have both, in their own ways and with their  own personalities, provided me, and therefore a11 my colleagues on the Board, with more encouragement than 1  could bave asked for, and as much support as 1 needed. Since this was frequently invisible and invariably  unsolicited, 1 must acknowledge it with gratitude. TO a11 51 Members of the Board, therefore, without  exception, 1 ain deeply indebted: it is because of you, and because of our shared ideals and ob.jectives, that I  bave sought to be the servant of the international community in this position, and it is thanks to you that 1  respectfully submit this report today.
3.40 Finally, 1 close this report with a message. As 1 said at the outset, we are gathered here to evolve  UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy, and thereby we shall, over the next few weeks, be giving to UNESCO its  vision, a strategic plan and a programme. Ladies and gentlemen, my message to you is that UNESCO, the  conscience of humanity and intellect of the world, still needs a mission statement, one to take us down through  the final decade of this Century.
3.41 Ladies and gentlemen, what could that mission statement be? Permit me to say that 1 see UNESCO as  a major dynamic contributor in the quest for, and maintenance of, a world order that guarantees to a11  humankind ongoing opportunities to discover ways of defining self and society, by ways of codifying and  articulating norms and standards of civilized relations between peoples within and between nations on the basis  of the observance of universal principles of human rights and the habits of mutual respect and tolerance.  whatever the differences of race, class, gender, religion or place of origin.
3.42 1 see UNESCO contributing to such a world order by way of deepening and heightening its  programmes of work in its established Aelds of competence, targeting the Young, the mass of the adult  population throughout Planet Earth, and women, who constitute the majority of the world’s population,  empowering them to be in charge of their own destinies through the exercise of intellect and imagination.
3.43 1 see UNESCO as a major and dynamic contributor to the unlocking of the creative potential of the  human being in shaping a world order based on a culture of peace, a capacity for rational discourse where a11  ideas are allowed to contend, and on an understanding of difference as a source of energy for creative  development rather than cause for bigotry, intolerance and irreconcilable conflict.
3.44 1 see UNESCO as a major contributor to, and principal facilitator of, the cultivation of the kingdom of  the mind from which a11 human achievement Springs.
3.45 This, friends, is my mission statement for our UNESCO. May God bless us and grant us the strength to  establish, through UNESCO, tics of solidarity amongst the peoples of the world based on the forces of freedom,  creativity, justice and knowledge. Thank you.  (Applause)
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, MS Inayatullah. 1 do think that the applause said it all. But nevertheless, 1 want  to thank you for this very personal report and also for your very constructive and comprehensive input to the  work of the General Conference. 1 think 1 was most important; and in very practical and concrete terms 1 would  like to remind the plenary of the fact that the Executive Board has done a great deal of preparatory work for  this General Conference, and that important recommendations from the Board are included in the documents
28 C/6 and 28 C/9 mentioned by you; they should certainly be taken into account in the relevant commissions  during the forthcoming work. SO thank you once more very much for your report.
4.2 Now 1 would also like to thank you personally for the dedication and the commitment you have  displayed during these last two years. It is very clear, just from your address to us, how strong and how deep  this commitment is, and 1 feel most honoured that 1 am able to sit on mis podium listening to you giving a  report covering half of the period 1 have also been on the Board serving under your leadership. SO once more  thank you very much.
4.3 And now 1 Will give the floor to Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, who has certainly  also made a great contribution to the preparation of this session of the General Conference and to the common  work during these last two years. Mr Director-General you have the floor to continue the introduction to the  debate.
5.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, le débat de politique générale qui s’ouvre atrjourd’hui revêt une  importance capitale. Qu’avons-nous fait et surtout qu’allons-nous faire ? Voila des questions qu’aucun de nous  ne pourra éluder au cours des semaines qui viennent.
5.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  permettez-moi de me réjouir que pour nous accompagner dans cette navigation nous disposions de pilotes aussi  expérimentés que vous. Monsieur le Président, vous savez toute la confiance et l’estime que j’ai pour votre  personne. Votre profonde connaissance de l’Organisation, votre constant engagement en faveur des idéaux qui  l’inspirent seront pour nous tous, dans cette enceinte, d’un précieux secours. Et le fait que vous veniez du  Danemark nous rassure aussi, car c’est un pays où les princes posent souvent les bonnes questions.
5.3 J’ai eu également le privilège, au cours des deux dernières années, de travailler très étroitement avec  Mme Attiya Inayatullah, présidente du Conseil exécutif. Elle a symbolisé, pour nous tous, par sa personnalité,  son dévouement, son profond intérêt pour tous les aspects de cette Organisation tellement complexe, le rôle que  les femmes du monde entier sont appelées à exercer pour le bien de tous. Alliant la vision à l’émotion, la  rigueur à l’imagination et à l’intuition, elle a su créer une synergie au sein du Conseil exécutif qui, puisqu’il est  toujours en session, nous sera dune aide précieuse pour orienter les débats.
5.4 Les documents qui vous ont été soumis - Projets de stratégie à moyen terme pour 1996-2001 et de  programme et budget pour 1996-1997 - sont le résultat d’un long dialogue entre le Conseil exécutif et le  Secrétariat. Ils procèdent, pour l’essentiel, d’une vision commune et de convictions partagées.
5.5 Ils sont aussi le fruit d’une réflexion collective menée à une échelle encore sans précédent, qui a  mobilisé les Etats membres au plus haut niveau et les personnalités les plus représentatives des communautés  intellectuelles. Ils doivent beaucoup, pour ne pas dire l’essentiel, je tiens à le souligner, aux commissions
47    nationales pour l’UNESCO qui n’ont ménagé ni leur temps, ni leurs efforts pour contribuer à l’oeuvre  commune. C’est à elles, au premier chef, que vont mes remerciements, pour l’esprit de dialogue et la  disponibilité dont elles ont su constamment faire preuve.
5.6 Je ne compte pas aujourd’hui me livrer à une présentation systématique des différents documents que  vous avez devant vous. Vous les connaissez, ils ont été présentés au Conseil exécutif au printemps, ils ont été  discutés. Je me contenterai donc amourd’hui, en les présentant, de rappeler les axes majeurs qui les inspirent et  les engagements qu’ils impliquent pour nous tous.
5.7 Cette session de la Conférence générale a lieu à un moment charnière, non pas de l’histoire mais de  l’existence même de l’UNESCO et du système des Nations Unies dans son ensemble. Au début de cette semaine,  les 150 chefs d’Etat et de gouvernement, réunis à New York pour la session spéciale de l’Assemblée générale  consacrée au cinquantième anniversaire de l’Organisation des Nations Unies, se sont exprimés de façon claire  et déterminee sur la nécessité de renouveler le système dans son ensemble, non seulement dans son  fonctionnement, mais surtout en ce qui concerne la définition de ses priorités. Cette exigence de renouveau ne  pourra être satisfaite - c’est un point dont je suis intimement convaincu - que par un retour aux sources mêmes  de la création des Nations Unies et de l’UNESCO. J’aime répéter à cet égard cette merveilleuse citation de  Carlos Fuentes quand il parle de Borges : “quelle nouveauté, très souvent, le passé”. Le retour aux sources  s’impose pour ne pas oublier l’essentiel : la raison pour laquelle toutes les institutions du système des Nations  Unies ont été créées.
5.8 Et si nous sommes ici, c’est parce que l’UNESCO a été investie, par les peuples, d’un mandat. Et ce  mandat, c’est un mandat très clair, c’est construire la paix ; non pas rétablir ou maintenir la paix, mais  construire la paix ; non pas se contenter du silence des armes, mais construire la paix ; non pas colmater les  brèches, mais jeter les fondations dune paix véritable.
5.9 Et ces fondations ne peuvent se trouver que dans l’esprit humain ; elles ne peuvent se trouver que dans  une adhésion - et je cite l’Acte constitutif - “unanime, durable et sincère” aux principes universels de dignité, de  liberté, de justice, d’égalité et de solidarité qui sont inscrits en exergue à notre Acte constitutif.
5.10 C’est dans cette perspective - et seulement dans cette perspective - que les fameux “domaines de  compctence” ou domaines d’action de l’UNESCO prennent leur véritable signifïcation. Pourquoi l’éducation, la  science et la culture ont-elle été singularisées dans notre Acte constitutif ‘! Parce que l’éducation, la science, la  culture - el bien sûr la communication - détiennent la clé même de la construction de la paix. Parce que chacun  de ces domaines est, par excellence, le vecteur de 1”‘esprit de paix”,
5.11 Changer donc les comportements, les comportements quotidiens vis-à-vis de nous-mêmes comme vis-  a-vis de l’Autre, en qui nous devons toujours nous reconnaître ; faire en sorte que les principes universels  rCCOIIIIUS dans l’Acte constitutif se traduisent en valeurs, en attitudes, en manière d’être quotidienne et d’agir  - tel est l’oh.jectif. tel est le mandat. Car, quel sens pourraient avoir le savoir que prodigue l’éducation, les  horizons ouverts par la science, la tension vitale entre mémoire et créativité, l’accélération sans precédent des  processus de communication dans le monde si, dans leur ensemble. ils ne contribuaient pas à instaurer cette  paix. s’ils ne contribuaient pas à bâtir la paix, cette culture de la paix qui constitue - à mes yeux - l’expression  même du mandat originel confié, voici cinquante ans, à l’UNESCO ?
5.12 Cette ambition qu’avaient eue les pères fondateurs en créant l’UNESCO, il nous appartient  - cinquante ans après - de la reprendre à notre compte. La tache est beaucoup moins utopique qu’alors et en  même temps beaucoup plus pressante qu’il n’y paraît.
5.13 Beaucoup moins utopique, car la guerre aujourd’hui a perdu de son prestige ; car les droits de l’homme  et les principes démocratiques sont sans cesse plus largement revendiqués ; car on commence à prendre  conscience du coût exorbitant des opérations fondées sur l’emploi de la force, face aux investissements que  requièrent les démarches préventives.
5.14 Beaucoup plus pressante, également, car dans ce monde en proie aux incertitudes et en quête de  nouveaux repères - où l’interdépendance se conjugue avec l’accroissement des disparités, où mondialisation et  fragmentation cohabitent, comme l’a remarqué le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies dans son discours - le  hcsoin se fait impérieusement sentir d’un minimum de lecture commune et d’un substrat de valeurs partagees.  Je répète, parce que je pense que c’est très important pour la concentration de vos débats, qu’à mon avis. tout  doit converger vers ce minimum de lecture commune. ce substrat de valeurs partagées.
5.15 Nous sommes là au coeur de la mission éthique de l’UNESCO, celle qui fait et qui doit faire sa  différence parmi toutes les autres institutions du système. Ce rôle éthique est notre spécificité et fait de  l’UNESCO un espace de rencontre où peut se développer une réflexion éthique a la fois libre, sans aucune  entrave, et globale, à laquelle peuvent participer aussi bien les responsables politiques que les intellectuels de  toutes disciplines et les autres acteurs de la société, non pas pour élaborer des codes de conduite, non pas pour  édifier une morale prescriptive, mais pour rapprocher les points de vue et créer le terrain de futures  convergences.
5.16 Tel est le sens de la réflexion entreprise dans le domaine de l’assistance humanitaire ou encore des  responsabilités des générations présentes à l’égard des hesoins et des intérêts des générations futures. Tel est  également le mouvement amorcé avec la création du Comité international de bioéthique dont les travaux, par  leur qualité et leur vision, sont pour moi un motif d’encouragement. Mais au-delà des questions liées aux  avancées des sciences biomédicales je crois que l’UNESCO doit désormais s’engager dans les voies d’une  réflexion plus large sur l’éthique des connaissances scientifiques dans son ensemble. Cette réflexion, qui  pourrait parcourir tout l’espace des progrès scientifïques, de leurs applications et des technologies qui leur sont  liees, devrait permettre d’instaurer un large débat sur les en.jeux de société que représentent de nos jours  l’accumulation des connaissances et les pouvoirs qu’elles investissent.
5.17 Car mission éthique et rôle intellectuel vont de pair, et il est clair que l’autorité morale de l’UNESCO  se mesurera, in fine, à l’aune de son autorité intellectuelle. Les efforts déployés, au cours de ces dernières  années, pour assurer une relance de la coopération intellectuelle internationale dans le cadre de l’UNESCO  commencent à porter leurs fruits. Les intuitions si fécondes du Forum de réflexion ad hoc réuni par le Conseil  exécutif, les conclusions des deux Commissions indépendantes sur l’éducation pour le XXIe siècle et sur la  culture et le développement - dont je viens de prendre connaissance - la contribution - remarquée, je dois le  dire - que l’Organisation a faite aux récentes conférences mondiales organisées par les Nations Unies - que ce  soit à Rio de Janeiro, à Vienne, au Caire, à Copenhague ou à Beijing, les débuts si prometteurs des Rencontres  philosophiques, ici à l’UNESCO, tous ces exemples témoignent bien, je crois, de cette volonté de renforcer le  rôle de “laboratoire d’idées” qui doit être celui de l’UNESCO.
5.18 D’autres chantiers de réflexion se profilent, qui me paraissent d’une importance capitale si l’on veut  préparer les sociétés à aborder le XXIe siècle, si l’UNESCO veut vraiment être ce “lahoratoire d’idées”, cet  endroit où l’imagination peut concevoir de nouvelles approches pour relever les nouveaux défis auxquels M~IS  devons faire face. Je songe à cet égard à l’enseignement supérieur, dont les fonctions, la place et le rôle doivent  être radicalement repensés. Je songe également aux sciences fondamentales, à leur importance pour le progrès  des sociétés. au rôle de la recherche et aux problèmes que posent aujourd’hui son organisation et son  financement. J’étudie d’ailleurs la possibilité de réunir un forum intergouvernemental sur les moyens de  soutenir les sciences fondamentales, et je ferai sans doute des propositions à ce sujet à la prochaine session dc la  Conference générale.
5.19 De façon générale. je pense qu’il est indispensable que l’UNESCO renforce ses capacités d’anticipation  et dc prévision. Car le délai est souvent très long entre l’énoncé d’une idée, l’esquisse d’une politique et sa  réalisation. Une génération, parfois deux ou trois, sont souvent le délai minimum, et le futur immédiat - dans  les domaines dont traite l’UNESCO - est presque toujours inscrit dans les faits. Qui dit prévention dit  nécessairement vision à long terme afin d’amorcer, quand il est encore temps, les changements qui seront  inéluctables demain.
5.20 Le retour aux sources, que j’evoquais à l’instant, est déjà bien amorcé. Il y a six ans - c’était en 1989 -  qu’au coeur de l’Afrique. à Yamoussoukro, en Côte d’ivoire, lc Congrès international sur la paix dans l’esprit  des hommes appelait l’UNESCO - je cite la conclusion de ce Congrès qui, à mon avis, a représenté un  événement capital pour l’avenir de l’Organisation - “à contribuer à la construction d’une nouvelle vision de la  paix, par le développement d’une culture de paix, sur les fondements des valeurs universelles du respect de la  vie, de liberté, de justice, de solidarité, de tolérance, des droits de l’homme et d’égalité entre femmes et  hommes”. Je fais souvent mention de cette conclusion lumineuse de la réunion de Yamoussoukro et j’aime à  dire que c’est en Afrique que nous avons puisé cette sagesse car, parfois, quand on parle de culture de la paix,  on pense que c’est une innovation, une découverte du seul Directeur général. Vous le voyez, ce sont les Etats  membres réunis à Yamoussoukro qui nous ont proposé la formule permettant de découvrir, avec cette nouvelle  approche de la paix, comment mettre en oeuvre notre mandat de bâtir la paix dans l’esprit des hommes.
5.21 Depuis Yamoussoukro, grâce à l’impulsion du Conseil exécutif et acte étant pris des propositions  formulées par le Secretaire géneral de I’ONU dans son Agenda pour la paix, l’idée de la culture de la paix s’est
49    progressivement imposée et enrichie, en particulier lors de la 44e session de la Conférence internationale de  l’éducation qui a eu lieu à Genève et des diverses tables rondes, réunions consultatives et forums qui ont été  organisés au cours de ces dernières années.
5.22 De nouvelles stratégies, de caractère essentiellement novateur, ont été expérimentées à travers les  programmes nationaux pour une culture de la paix à El Salvador, au Mozambique ou au Burundi, les activités  réalisées au Nicaragua, au Honduras, en Somalie et au Soudan ou les initiatives des Etats membres, aux  Philippines, en Afrique du Sud, au Congo, en Côte d’ivoire ou encore au Costa Rica.
5.23 C’est dans ce cadre notamment que des démarches ont été entreprises pour tenter d’enrayer la  dialectique funeste de la peur et de la haine, et éviter qu’elle ne conduise au conflit, voire à l’affrontement armé.  La célébration, à l’initiative de l’UNESCO, de l’Année des Nations Unies pour la tolérance nous a permis de  prendre toute la mesure des besoins dans ce domaine. Nous mobiliser contre l’intolérance, qui sévit sous les  formes les plus variées, voilà une priorité sur laquelle, je suis sûr, il y aura un très large consensus à cette  Conference générale et qui se traduira, je l’espère, par l’adoption du projet de Déclaration sur la tolérance qui  vous est soumis.
5.24 Je dois à cet égard remercier les commissions nationales et toutes les associations non  gouvernementales qui ont effectivement assuré cette mobilisation vraiment très spectaculaire dans certains pays  pour la simple raison que la tolérance, était la meilleure façon de célébrer le cinquantième anniversaire de la  création de l’UNESCO et du système des Nations Unies. Comme vous le savez, j’ai entrepris pour ma part de  dénoncer, systematiquement et inlassablement, les formes de violence extrême auxquelles sont soumis, en  nombre hélas sans cesse croissant, les membres de la communauté intellectuelle - et ce, du fait même de leur  appartenance à cette communauté. Je ne doute pas que les Etats membres auront à coeur de soutenir une action  d’envergure pour alerter et mobiliser l’opinion publique contre des situations qui sont un déni flagrant de tous  les principes inscrits dans notre Acte constitutif. Quand le terrorisme vise les enfants ou les écoles, les  enseignants, les journalistes, les artistes, le moment est venu, je pense, de le dénoncer sans hésitation, avec la  rapidité et la fermeté qui s’imposent et d’élever la voix.
5.23 La violence n’a de fondement ni biologique, ni religieux - comme l’ont mis si clairement en évidence le  Manifeste de Séville sur la violence, adopté en 1986, et, plus récemment, la Déclaration de Barcelone adoptée  par les représentants des plus grandes traditions religieuses. C’est là une évidence dont il nous faut convaincre  sans relâche, pour prévenir l’explosion des pulsions dévastatrices.
5.26 Dans un autre registre, il faudrait évoquer la mise au point d’un Cadre d’action intégré concernant  l’éducation pour la paix, les droits de l’homme et la démocratie - lequel est soumis, comme vous le savez, à  l’approbation de la Conférence générale ; la nouvelle impulsion donnée au Système des écoles associées, (  atrjourd’hui au nombre de 3.375 réparties dans 124 pays ; la relance du projet Linguapax, destiné à favoriser ‘,  l’enseignement des langues. le multilinguisme comme vecteur de compréhension mutuelle ; ou encore la ;:  défense, partout où elle est menacée, de la liberté de la presse et le soutien apporté aux médias indépendants,  tout particulièrement à ceux qui, comme en Bosnie, défendent, en plein conflit, les valeurs de tolérance et de  \  coexistence pacifique. ‘,
5.27 Toutes ces initiatives - et d’autres encore - nous ont conduits progressivement à élaborer les stratégies  qui sont exposées au titre du deuxième volet de la Stratégie à moyen terme et qui concernent l’édification de la  paix. Elles ont également inspiré les propositions formulées, dans le Programme et budget pour 1996-1997,  dans le cadre du projet transdisciplinaire “Vers une culture de la paix”.
5.28 La culture de la paix, telle que nous l’entendons, ne saurait en effet s’identifier à un pacifisme abstrait,  ou à une tolérance passive, qui se contenterait de dénoncer la violence et de prêcher inlassablement les vertus  d’une gestion pacifique des conflits ; la culture de la paix -j’insiste - est une “morale en action”. Elle suppose  donc un engagement militant en faveur de la construction d’un cadre de vie qui soit conforme à la notion de  dignité humaine. Car “construire” la paix, aujourd’hui, c’est essentiellement s’attaquer aux racines mêmes de  l’insécuritc humaine que sont les inégalités - sans cesse plus insoutenables - entre les nations et au coeur des  sociétés, l’escalade de la pauvreté, l’exclusion et l’injustice sociale, le déclin rural et la misère urbaine. A mon  avis, morale en action, c’est précisément la traduction en termes concrets de cette grande recommandation du  Préambule de notre Acte constitutif selon laquelle l’UNESCO doit veiller à la solidarité morale et intellectuelle  de l’humanité.
5.29 Certes, de grands progrès ont été accomplis par la communauté internationale dans la perception des  interrelations de la paix et du développement, qui sont comme les deux faces d’une même médaille. Le cycle  des conférences internationales organisé par les Nations Unies a permis d’aborder successivement toutes les  facettes du développement et d’intégrer ses différentes dimensions : paix, mais aussi économie, environnement,  justice sociale, démocratie. Il a surtout mis en valeur la place centrale de l’être humain, au coeur des processus  qui conduisent au développement comme à la paix.
5.30 C’est là une vérité que l’UNESCO proclame depuis toujours et qui s’incarne, aujourd’hui, à mon sens,  dans trois mots clé : autonomie - diversité - solidarité. Par autonomie, j’entends la capacité, pour chaque  personne, de prendre en mains son propre destin et d’effectuer ses propres choix. Cette autonomie, seule  l’éducation peut la conférer, l’éducation au sens le plus plein du terme, ce que le Forum de réflexion ad hoc du  Conseil exécutif avait appelé une “éducation globale et intégrale”. Globale, en ce sens qu’elle doit couvrir tous  les aspects de la vie : ceux de la vie quotidienne au premier chef, mais aussi les connaissances scientifiques et  les savoir-faire professionnels, les valeurs humaines et morales et l’exercice des responsabilités liées à la  citoyenneté. Intégrale en ce qu’elle doit être conçue comme un processus continu qui offre à chacun la  possibilité d’apprendre non pas une mais plusieurs fois dans le cours de sa vie. Mettre ainsi l’accent sur  l’éducation permanente pour tous est, pour moi, essentiel et cette orientation définie par le Forum de réflexion  ad hoc a inspiré à mon avis, plus qu’on ne l’imagine, notre stratégie à long terme.
5.31 L’éducation doit impérativement devenir au.jourd’hui une éducation sans frontières, apte à surmonter  les barrières que sont l’âge, le temps, l’espace, la pauvreté ou bien encore les obstacles culturels. Une éducation  qui soit capable de s’infiltrer partout et à tout moment - à l’école bien sûr, mais aussi sur le lieu de travail, dans  les loisirs ou à la maison. Pour atteindre cet objectif, il nous faudra - simultanément - continuer à dkvelopper  les systèmes d’enseignement existants - au niveau primaire, secondaire et supérieur - et améliorer leur effïcacitk  interne, mais aussi encourager le développement de nouveaux services éducatifs, souples, diversifiés, peu  coûteux, tant formels que non formels, en utilisant les nouvelles méthodologies, et surtout les méthodologies les  plus avancées en matière de télécommunications.
5.32 Les initiatives communautaires qui se développent dans de nombreux pays sous l’impulsion des  mouvements associatifs, des organisations non gouvernementales ou professionnelles ou encore d’entités  privées, constituent une autre voie possible qui mérite d’être reconnue et encouragée. Il faut admettre par  ailleurs que les moyens modernes d’information et de communication ont commencé à briser le monopole  longtemps détenu par les institutions éducatives. Ces technologies ouvrent de nouvelles perspectives, non  seulement pour la promotion de l’éducation permanente, mais aussi pour toucher tous ceux qui jusqu’ici ont été  privés de toute possibilité d’apprendre, quelle qu’elle soit. Certes, ces technologies sont loin de constituer une  panacée, et leur utilisation doit être envisagée à la fois avec prudence et réalisme. Il faut donc surtout  encourager la recherche des technologies les plus appropriées pour atteindre les populations les plus pauvres,  les habitants des zones reculées, les groupes marginalisés et tous ceux qui ont besoin d’actualiser ou d’améliorer  leurs compétences.
5.33 Si l’on me demandait vers quels ob.jectifs principaux doit tendre cette Conférence générale, je  rtpondrais “l’éducation permanente”, et en parallèle “l’éducation sans frontières”, c’est-à-dire une éducation qui  puisse atteindre tous les citoyens, quel que soit l’endroit, même le plus reculé, où ils habitent ; si nous  parvenons ainsi à améliorer la qualité de vie du milieu rural, nous serons à même de faire partager les bénéfices  de la connaissance à tous les citoyens de la planète.
5.34 C’est dans ce contexte que l’UNESCO poursuit avec détermination - et avec le concours du PNUD, de  l’UNICEF, de la Banque mondiale, du FNUAP et d’autres partenaires en dehors du système des Nations Unies -  la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie mondiale d’éducation pour tous définie à Jomtien en 1990. A la suite du  Sommet des neuf pays à forte population consacré à l’éducation pour tous, convoqué à New Delhi en décembre
1993, une priorité nouvelle a été accordke à ces pays qui détiennent à eux seuls la clé de la solution au problème  de l’analphabktisme mondial. L’accent est mis désormais sur une éducation mieux adaptée aux besoins des  populations concernées, une éducation qui englobe la postalphabétisation et l’éducation non formelle, à travers  des services éducatifs diversifiés. La plus haute priorité - je ne le répéterai jamais assez - doit bien sûr être  donnée aux femmes et aux jeunes filles, tout particulièrement à celles qui vivent en milieu rural, puisque ce  sont elles qui constituent le principal groupe d’exclus et que cet investissement éducatif, nous le savons, est  rendu au centuple.
5.35 A mon avis, et c’est là un aspect très important, il ne faut pas considérer que l’UNESCO doit s’occuper  de tous les aspects de l’éducation dans tous les pays du monde ; elle a pour rôle d’agir en partenariat avec les
51    Etats membres représentes par les commissions nationales. Comme vous le savez je n’emploie pas souvent le  mot historique ; or, j’ai à maintes reprises dit que la réunion de New Delhi était une réunion historique parce  que, à cette occasion, les pays eux-mêmes ont décidé de doubler d’ici à la fin du siècle leurs investissements  dans le domaine de 1’6ducation. Ce sont les pays qui doivent être convaincus que le meilleur investissement  qu’ils peuvent faire c’est précisément l’éducation. C’est en établissant de nouvelles priorités qu’ils pourront  parvenir à assurer une tducation permanente. Je voudrais aussi souligner un autre aspect : nous devons essayer  de nous rapprocher des individus pour tenter de savoir quelle est exactement leur situation. Nous ne pouvons  pas dire par exemple à quelqu’un qui a passé sa vie à lutter seul avec quelques compagnons d’arme isolés dans  la montagne, pour la défense de ses idéaux, qu’il est est analphabète et doit suivre des cours d’alphabétisation  pendant trois ans. II le fera certes, mais se sentira sans doute encore plus marginalisé, exclu et même humilié.  Nous devons faire exactement le contraire, lui dire que nous connaissons sa situation et allons, par des moyens  intensifs faisant appel à l’audiovisuel, à l’utilisation de CD-ROM et à la technologie la plus avancée, et à lui  donner en un an ou deux dans sa langue maternelle une formation professionnelle adaptée qui pourra en faire  tr&s rapidement en citoyen à part entière.
5.36 Il faut que nous agissions en pleine coordination avec le reste du système, sur le modèle de ce qui a été  fait à Jomtien et à New Delhi. Je pense que le projet Education et information en matière d’environnement et de  population pour le développement humain (EPD), qui vient d’être présenté au Conseil exécutif et dont vous  allez avoir connaissance au cours de la Conférence générale, est un bon exemple de collaboration avec le  Programme des Nations Unies pour l’environnement et le Fonds des Nations Unies pour la population. Je veux  vous dire à cet Cgard qu’avant hier même, à 8 heures du matin, à New York, j’ai participé à une réunion au plus  haut niveau avec des représentants de 1’ UNICEF, du PNUD, de la Banque mondiale et du Fonds des  Nations Unies pour la population qui avait pour objet de coordonner tous les aspects éducatifs intéressant les  différentes conf&ences des Nations Unies ainsi que l’initiative pour l’Afrique du Secrétaire général des  Nations Unies, M. Boutros Boutros-Ghali. C’est de cette façon que nous pouvons donner l’exemple. J’avais  convoqué cette réunion qui avait pour thème l’éducation, et je suis heureux de vous dire que, sans exception,  toutes les institutions queje viens de mentionner ont été absolument d’accord pour que nous agissions de façon  coordonnée comme nous sommes en train de le faire en ce qui concerne le suivi de Jomtien et de New Delhi.
5.37 L’Éducation de base est une priorité absolue. C’çst le premier de nos objectifs, mais ce n’est qu’un point  de départ vers des formes plus avancees d’éducation, la première étape dans un processus d’éducation  permancntc. Et il est vrai que dans le contcxtc actuel, où l’évolution accélérée des sociétés exige de chacun qu’il  renouvelle constamment ses savoirs ct ses savoir-faire, beaucoup d’individus, qui ont eu un jour accès à  l’enseignement, doivent avoir au.jourd’hui le sentiment d’avoir r@int le rang des “exclus”. La rénovation des  systèmes éducatifs est une urgence que nul ne conteste : elle devrait bien sûr assurer une meilleure articulation  entre éducalion et monde du travail, mais aussi développer des formes alternatives d’apprentissage et de  formation qui puissent s’acquérir CII dehors même des établissements d’enseignement.
5.38 La réforme dc l’enseignement supérieur revêt à cet égard une importance stratégique : il faut  résolument cncouragcr l’enscignemcnt ouvert et à distance, la mise au point de modalités souples de formation  aw~ée et surtout d’actualisation des connaissances, et faire en sorte que les établissements d’enseignement  supCrieur deviennent des centres d’éducation permanente accessibles à tous à tout moment. Comme vous le  savez. après cinq années de travail, nous avons recueilli un ensemble de données mondiales sur l’enseignement  supérieur dans un document qui définit des politiques et des stratégies et qui a été présenté à toutes les  universités I . Nous allons maintenant essayer de faire en sorte que toutes les universités étudient ce document de  façon à pouvoir compter sur l’appui des professeurs d’universit&s et même des étudiants pour ttablir un  diagnostic et trouver les solutions radicales dont l’enseignement supCrieur a besoin dans le monde entier.
5.39 Une Éducation globale et intégrale “pour tous” doit Ztre avant tout conçue comme une éducation “par  tous” : lc processus éducatif ne doit pas simplement être perçu comme la responsabilité d’un seul secteur mais  de la sociétc tout entière. c’est-à-dire le secteur public et privé - industries, services - les organisations non  gouvernementales, les communautés locales, sans oublier bien sûr les medias.
5.40 J’évoquais à l’instanl, Monsieur le Président, la notion d’autonomie, c’est-à-dire la capacité d’elaborer  son propre dessein d’avenir. Pour les individus, comme pour les sociétés, il n’est point aujourd’hui d’autonomie  sans une maîtrise suffisante des connaissances ct des savoir-faire scientifiques. C’est d’ailleurs l’une des  fonctions majeures de I’UNESCO - énonc& dans I’Article premier de son Acte constitutif - que d’aider à  l’avancement, au transfert et au partage du savoir. L’UNESCO dispose, au sein du système des Nations Unies,  d’un mandat unique en matière de sciences fondamentales. C’esl une responsabilité qu’il convient d’assumer  pleinement. Aussi la Stratégie à moyen terme, et les propositions contenues dans le Projet de programme et de
3  budget mettent-elles un accent tout particulier sur le développement des sciences fondamentales. Cela passe  d’abord par l’amélioration - en termes de qualité et de pertinence - de l’enseignement et de la formation  universitaires, en sciences exactes et naturelles comme en sciences sociales et humaines. C’est le but que se  fixent les chaires UNESCO et les diverses modalités de coopération interuniversitaire développées dans le cadre  du programme UNITWIN.
5.41 Cela passe également par le soutien à la recherche et une meilleure coordination des activités de  formation avancée et de recherche. C’est le but des nombreux réseaux de coopération scientifique avec lesquels  l’UNESCO collabore, en mathématiques, en physique, chimie, biologie et biotechnologies et dans le domaine  des sources d’énergie renouvelables, mais aussi en sciences sociales et humaines - et ce, tant au niveau global  que régional. De nouvelles modalités de coopération doivent être aujourd’hui mises au point, afin d’améliorer  l’accès des pays les moins favorisés aux travaux menés dans les institutions de recherche avancée et aux  équipements “lourds” qu’ils nécessitent. C’est dans cette perspective, par exemple, qu’a été créé, il y a deux ans  et avec le soutien de l’UNESCO, le Physics Action Council. Car la recherche scientifique nécessite aujourd’hui  des investissements d’une taille sans précédent. Pour la financer, de nouveaux partenariats s’imposent - avec les  gouvernements d’une part, mais aussi avec les universités et les secteurs de la production et des services,  notamment dans le domaine des sciences de l’ingénieur et de leurs applications. Ces partenariats devraient  permettre d’orienter la recherche vers la solution de problèmes urgents de développement, par exemple en  biotechnologies, dans le domaine de l’énergie ou de l’eau.
5.42 C’est là un impératif qui avait été mis clairement en évidence, dès les origines de l’UNESCO par son  premier Directeur général, Aldous Huxley : “L’application des connaissances scientifiques - rappelait-il - est  l’un des moyens principaux pour améliorer les conditions de vie des hommes”. Cet impératif ne peut plus Ctre  ignoré après la Conférences des Nations Unies sur l’environnement et le développement. 11 doit nous conduire à  mieux centrer les activités de l’UNESCO dans le domaine des sciences de l’environnement vers la recherche de  réponses appropriées à certains problèmes urgents de développement. La Stratégie proposée vise à concilier les  impératifs du développement avec les exigences de la protection de l’environnement ; elle vise aussi à concilier  le nécessaire renforcement des disciplines avec la promotion d’approches transdisciplinaires et une synergie  accrue entre sciences naturelles et sciences sociales. Il n’est plus possible en effet d’aborder les questions  relatives à notre environnement sans prendre en compte ce que j’appelais, hier, le facteur humain. C’est  pourquoi l’UNESCO a lancé, voilà deux ans, un projet transdisciplinaire sur “Education ct information en  matière d’environnement et de population pour le développement” qui vise - à partir d’une information  scientifique rigoureuse - à modifier les comportements humains par le biais de l’éducation et de la culture. Deux  autres prqjets propos& dans le cadre de la Stratégie à moyen terme, l’un sur les villes, l’autre sur les zones  côtières et les petites îles, répondent au même souci : utiliser les acquis de la recherche scientifique, en sciences  naturelles comme en sciences sociales, pour proposer des solutions aux problèmes cruciaux d’un développement  qui soit à la fois socialement et écologiquement durable.
5.43 Ceci vaut également dans le domaine de la culture, où des stratégies doivent être trouvées qui  permettent de rtconcilier les exigences de la sauvegarde du patrimoine et celles du développement des  populations concernées. A cet kgard, le tourisme culturel peut constituer un précieux atout, pour autant que les  populations locales puissent bénéficier de ses retombées en matière de développement konomique, mais aussi  en termes de revitalisation des formes d’expression culturelle qui leur sont propres.
5.44 L’une des plus grandes menaces qui pèse au.jourd’hui sur les sociétés humaines, sans exception, est  certainement celle de voir s’instaurer ce que j’appellerai une logique de l’uniformisation - à commencer p,ar  l’uniformisation des modèles de développement, alors que le développement nc peut être qu’un processus  endogène dont les ressorts profonds s’enracinent dans les cultures propres à chaque société. Pour l’UNESCO, le  maintien de la “féconde diversité des cultures” est, depuis sa fondation, une exigence éthique inscrite au coeur  même de son Acte constitutif. C’est devenu au.jourd’hui un impératif de survie, tant il est vrai que le maintien de  la diversité culturelle est aussi indispensable à la survie de l’humanité que la diversité biologique l’est à celle de  la planète.
5.45 C’est pourquoi la Stratkgie à moyen terme fait une large place à la revitalisation du patrimoine  immatkiel - dans ses différentes dimensions, langues, traditions, artisanat, arts populaires... J’insiste sur le mot  “revitalisation”, car il ne s’agit pas seulement de conserver le patrimoine, de l’enfermer dans des musées, mais  de l’insérer dans les processus modernes de création et de diffusion. Le développement d’industries culturelles  endogènes, le renforcement d’associations et de mécanismes de coopération aux niveaux régional et sous-  régional, revêtent à cet égard une importance capitale car, dans de nombreux cas, c’est de leur existence même  que dépendra la survie de nombreuses expressions culturelles.
5.46 L’apologie de la diversité culturelle peut sembler relever du paradoxe, en une époque marquée par  l’affirmation des particularismes et les crispations identitaires. Mais ce rkveil sporadique des spécificités ne doit  pas occulter les lames de fond qui sont à l’oeuvre aujourd’hui, alors que les mouvements de migration  s’accentuent et que le caractère multiculturel de l’ensemble des sociétés se confirme. Nous vivons sans aucun  doute une époque de transition, où les lignes de partage entre cultures, religions et même civilisations ne  cessent de se modifier. Le concept même d’identité culturelle évolue, la reconnaissance des appartenances  multiples progresse. De cette transition, nous devons prendre acte, avec ses nouveaux agencements et ses replis  sur soi, et dégager en son sein même, c’est-à-dire au niveau de ses acteurs, tout ce qu’elle peut comporter de  positif et d’enrichissant.
5.47 Notre tâche consiste aujourd’hui à saisir dans ce phénomène tout ce qui peut, à partir de la  reconnaissance de la multiplicité des appartenances que chacun peut au.jourd’hui légitimement revendiquer,  conduire à un renforcement du pluralisme culturel et de ses acteurs. Le pluralisme va bien au-delà du simple  constat que les sociétés sont au.jourd’hui de plus en plus multiculturelles ; il porte en lui un projet, celui  d’inventer de nouvelles formes de vie sociale dans lesquelles les principes démocratiques inscrits dans notre  Acte constitutif pourraient se traduire pleinement dans les faits. Des identités culturelles aux appartenances  multiples, des appartenances multiples à leur épanouissement dans un cadre démocratique, voilà la tendance  profonde que l’UNESCO se doit d’appuyer, en étroite collaboration avec tous les acteurs, aux niveaux local,  national, sous-régional et régional. A cet égard, Monsieur le Président, je souhaiterais signaler que s’est tenue à  Sydney. en avril 1995, la Conférence mondiale sur la diversité culturelle. J’ai assisté à cette réunion en  compagnie du Secrétaire général de l’Organisation des Nations Unies, du Premier ministre de l’Australie et du  Vice-Président de l’Afrique du Sud. Cette Conférence a permis de mettre en relief l’importance des politiques  multiculturelles pour le gouvernement démocratique des sociétés. Je pense que vous pourriez avoir cette  importance à l’esprit lorsque vous envisagerez, au cours de vos débats, les moyens grâce auxquels l’UNESCO  pourrait relever cet énorme défi : donner à toute personne un cadre dans lequel elle puisse exprimer sans  aucune entrave ses particularismes, en considérant ceux-ci comme une contribution enrichissante et non comme  un moyen de repli sur soi susceptible parfois de s’accompagner de violences.
5.48 Le développement des réseaux multimédia pourrait donner une impulsion radicalement nouvelle à la  mission première de l’UNESCO . “favoriser la libre circulation des idées, par le mot et par l’image”. Ces  nouvelles technologies offrent en effet des perspectives inkdites pour le développement de l’éducation,  I’avanccment du savoir, la diffusion de la culture et pour la coopération internationale. La Stratégie à moyen  terme cn donne de nombreux exemples, qu’il s’agisse de l’élargissement de l’accès à l’éducation par  l’enseignement à distance, ou encore de la constitution de réseaux pour les échanges d’informations dans nos  domaines de compétence. Encore faut-il que ces technologies soient accessibles à tous, ou au moins, au plus  grand nombre. Si, par mtgarde, ces nouveaux réseaux devaient contourner les régions les plus défavorisées,  ignorer les groupes les plus démunis, ils pourraient bien aggraver les disparités existant à l’échelle  internationale et nationale entre ceux qui en auront la maîtrise et ceux qui ne l’auront pas. Avec la  mondialisation des processus de communication ainsi que la “concentration” des moyens de création, de  production et de distribution, on peut aussi s’interroger sur les risques d’uniformisation du langage - donc de la  pensée - que pourraient comporter ces technologies, et sur l’appauvrissement culturel qu’induirait la circulation  de produits trop standardisés.
5.49 Dans ce contexte, le rôle de l’UNESCO doit être avant tout d’analyser les évolutions actuelles et  d’anticiper leurs impacts, positifs et négatifs, sur la vie des sociétés. Elle devra en mesurer toutes les  potentialités pour le développement éducatif; scientifique et culturel mais aussi les effets probables sur nos  façons de penser, d’agir et de décider, car c’est le rapport même à l’information qui s’en trouvera modifié. Il lui  appartiendra enfin, par le biais par exemple de son Programme général d’information, de conduire une  réflexion sur les aspects juridiques et éthiques de ces évolutions, de manière 3 aider les Etats membres à  élaborer des stratégies dans ces domaines. Enfin, conformément à la stratégie de la communication adoptée en
1989, l’Organisation devra poursuivre et développer les activités visant à renforcer les capacités d’information  et de communication des Etats membres, afin qu’ils disposent des ressources humaines et des moyens de  production leur permettant de participer aux échanges et de faire les choix culturels pertinents.
5.50 Le troisième principe sur lequel je voudrais revenir très brièvement, parce que je l’ai longuement  évoqué hier, est celui de la solidarité. J’ajouterai simplement que cette solidarité, fondée sur la diversité, doit  être conçue comme un engagement à oeuvrer ensemble, à la fois semblables et riches de nos différences. Nous  devons pour ce faire innover et, là où les recettes classiques de l’aide ont échoué, explorer des formes nouvelles  de coopération avec - j’insiste sur ce point - la pleine participation des populations concernées. Il conviendra à  cet égard de veiller à ce que les groupes de populations ou de pays considérés jusque-là comme de simples
3  béneficiaires soient désormais associés en tant que partenaires à part entière à la définition des programmes les  concernant.
5.51 C’est dans cet esprit qu’ont été définies, dans la Stratégie à moyen terme, les actions en faveur des  quatre groupes prioritaires - les pays les moins avancés, les Etats membres d’Afrique, la jeunesse et les  femmes - auxquels l’UNESCO envisage de consacrer au cours des années à venir une part substantielle de ses  efforts et de ses ressources.
5.52 C’est dans cet esprit aussi qu’on été convoquees en février 1995, au Siège de l’UNESCO, les Assises de  l’Afrique. Elles ont réuni des représentants des Etats membres, dont une cinquantaine de la région Afrique,  environ 130 personnalités invitées à titre individuel, des organisations et associations internationales et locales,  africaines ou opérant en Afrique, ainsi que les organisations et programmes du système des Nations Unies. Le  but de cette rencontre émit de se mettre à l’écoute de ce continent et, à partir des priorités et des besoins définis  par les Africains eux-mêmes, d’élaborer ensemble des solutions susceptibles de répondre à ces besoins. Comme  l’ont clairement montré les Assises de l’Afrique, c’est ce potentiel, cette capacité des individus de concevoir et  de forger les mécanismes nécessaires à l’amélioration des conditions de vie et au progrès social, qui constitue le  noyau autour duquel devra se construire cette solidarité.
5.53 La Conférence mondiale de Beijing sur les femmes aura à cet égard marqué une étape nouvelle : celle  de l’affirmation par la communauté internationale des droits fondamentaux des femmes, ainsi que la  reconnaissance du potentiel que représentent leurs compétences, leur expérience et surtout leur vision pour le  développement et la solution des problèmes auxquels sont confrontées nos sociétés.
5.54 Monsieur le Président, le programme que je viens de présenter concerne à la fois le prochain exercice  biennal et la Stratégie à moyen terme, ce qui explique la longueur de mon propos ; mais ce n’est que tous les six  ans que la Conférence générale, et donc le Directeur général, ont à envisager l’avenir de l’Organisation dans ces  deux perspectives.  (The Director-General continues in English)
5.55 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 bave proposed for the implementation of the first two-year phase  of the Medium-Term Strategy in 1996-1997 a budget amounting to $518,445,000. This reflects zero growth in  real terms vis-à-vis the budget approved for 1994-1995. Despitc the constraints of zero growth, my proposals  aim to increase by more than $4 million the budget devoted to major programmes and transdisciplinary projects  through redeployment of funds from other parts of the budget, particularly administrative and support services.  Therefore, 1 propose the same ceiling but we have reduced through economies the investment in support and  administrative functions and we bave devoted $4 million more to programme activities. The savings resulting  from the abolition of 17 posts have also been rcdeployed to priority programme activities.
5.56 These resources are indeed meagre when compared to the immense needs of Member States in the  Organization’s fïelds of action. Extra-budgetary resources amounting to more than $290 million are foreseen to  complement the regular budget. It is an indispensable input and 1 wish to thank a11 Member States who  contribute to these resources in the form of funds-in-trust. This contribution offers not only highly valuable  assistance to Member States, but also testifles to their confidence in the Organization’s action and effectiveness.
1 think sincerely that the increase in the last two years in the expectations of extra-budgetary funding has been  one of the reasons by which we have been able to keep very high the flag of the Organization and its role in the  United Nations system.
5.57 We have sought to make the best use of these resources by concentrating on development efforts of  Member States. This has meant a greater emphasis on priority activities and direct support for development  activities in Member States. The Secretariat has been encouraged to adopt proactive behaviour rather than just a  reactive approach. Administrative and fïnancial flexibility lias also bcen proposed for some units of the  Secretariat, in order to enable them to respond more swiftly to the needs of Member Statcs, while remaining  fully accountable to the Organization’s governing bodies. That is the aim of my proposals concerning the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the UNESCO World Heritage Centre. If, in the support of  the Palestinian people, UNESCO has been at the forefront of efficient and rapid action, it is because you gave  me the power that permits me to take very rapid positions - in mis respect the same cari be applied to Somalia,  or to Rwanda, or to Dubrovnik. What 1 repeat here is that 1 consider that we cari at the same time, with a good  mechanism or follow-up - and we have the group of experts and diverse mechanisms in this respect - reconcile  effectiveness with transparency and rapidity.
5.58 The same concern for more effectiveness underpins the proposa1 to reinforce interdisciplinarity in  UhESCO’s activities. Only a few interdisciplinary projects have been proposed in the Medium-Term Strategy  and the Draft Programme and Budget for 1996-1997. 1 bave referred to them earlier, but 1 wish to reiterate here  my conviction that they represent a forward-looking approach in the implementation of UNESCO’s  programmes. They respond to the real needs of Member States and are in conformity with the worldwide trend  towards transdisciplinarity.
3.59 In the same vein, 1 bave also decided to mobilize a11 the competence, experience, skills and resources  of the International Institute of Educational Planning, the International Bureau of Education and the UNESCO  Institute for Education, in the service of the priorities under Major Programme 1 - Towards lifelong education  for ail. This decision is dictated by the necessity to use a11 our available resources while, at the same time,  respecting the specifïcity of some of the tasks entrusted to these institutions.
5.60 These measures have their merit; but they would be meaningless without the commitment of Member  States. For UNESCO is its Member States and the success of its strategies and programmes depends essentially
011 the commitment of Member States to their implementation. For instance, it is indispensable that the  Member States allocate the necessary resources to development programmes relating to UNESCO’s lïelds of  action. In this regard, thc commitment made by most of the nine high-population countries, as 1 have  mentioned before, to increase their allocation of resources to education is in my view a good example. Similar  commitments are required in the other fïelds as well - for example: environmental protection, management of  natural resources, development of renewable energy sources, communication, to mention just a few. Since  tangible results cari be obtained only through sustained efforts over a relatively long-term period, it is essential  that such commitmcnts are not adversely affected by a change of government. Unintcrrupted support should bc  ensured by recognizing those commitments as the essential elements of a State or national policy. In this  respect. 1 must tcll you that in different countries, mis proposa1 of elaborating a State policy which goes beyond  the normal tcrm of the government, i.e. of parliamentary legislature, has had excellent support and 1 hope that  these reforms cari be implemented.
5.61 Membcr States also bave a primary responsibility as regards the dissemination of the ideals of  UNESCO and the projection of its image through the media, an issue already discusscd at the present session of  thc Executive Board. Indeed, if the ideals of UNESCO are to be known and, most important of all, shared by  the grcatest number of people, it is at thc national and local level that new initiatives must be undertaken.
5.62 The more active participation of intcllectual communities, the rcpresentative bodies of society, infer  rrlicl, national parliaments, municipal authorities, the private sector, non-governmental organizations and,  indeed, the gcneral public, is essential if we are to make effective and rapid progress towards reaching the goals  set. In this regard, the Member Statcs should give a11 the necessary support to revitalizing the National  Commissions. which are called upon to play a key role in increasing the relevance and effectiveness of  UNESCO’S ilCtiOl1 at Ililtioniil level.
5.63 Finally, efforts must be continucd to forge a ‘united thrust’ of multilateral co-operation for dcvelopment  with a vicw to framing co-ordinatcd strategics and policies, cstablishing frameworks for joint action at regional  and national levcls and generating increased invcstment in UNESCO’s fields of action. In this regard, 1 am glad  to stress that UNESCO’s recent initiatives, such as the Jomtien Conference and thc New Delhi Summit: as well  as its inputs to the major United Nations conferences, bave rcsulted in raising commitments among both the  Member States and our other partncrs.
5.64 Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me end the presentation of these two documents with somc  remarks that 1 consider particularly important, 1 would like to reaffïrm to a11 of you that during this debate the  Secrctariat Will be very attentive to the different points of view expressed by the distinguished heads of  delegations, and that the Secretariat Will follow very attentively the discussions in the Commissions; in these  Commissions you Will have not only the two documents that 1 havc prescnted to you - 28 C/4 and 28 C/5 - but  you Will also bave thc documents prepared by the distinguishcd members of the Executive Board. While it is  you, UNESCO, the Member States, who Will elaborate for thc Secretariat the final design, let me assurc you  that 1 for my part, together with the Sccretariat: Will do my hest during the next two, the next six? years to  ensure that the Organization functions in a more effective and rapid way. Thank you very much.  ,  (Applause)
6. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General, for this very comprehensive report, with a great deal of food for  thought and certainly a lot of constructive input for our forthcoming work.  Premier rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  PREMIER RAPPORT DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  FIRST REPORT BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  PRIMER INFORME DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  IlEPBbIM AOKJIAfl IIPEQCEAATEJIR KOMMTETA HO HPOBEPKE HOJIHOMO=lMti  ai.GYl $lQ 4 d” J,9l Jdg2JI  ~mïE4@E~È~%-~~~
7. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now return to item 1.2, and 1 give the floor to the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  to present his fïrst report.
8.1 Mr JAFFAR (Malaysia), Chairperson of the Credentials Committee:  Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the plenary 1  submitted and read out the fïrst report of the Credentials Committee. Now, 1 would like to submit the fïrst  report of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee.
8.2 1 have to inform you that the Secretariat is still in the process of receiving documents pertaining to  credentials submitted by Member States. This morning we have received a few, including one from the Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya. 1 assure you that they Will be processed as we receive them.
8.3 Since the fïrst report of the Credentials Committee, credentials in due form have been received from  the following States: Chile, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Equatorial Guinea, Philippines and  Tunisia. Credentials in due form have also been received from the following countries which had previously  submitted provisional credentials: Cook Islands, Ethiopia, Iraq, Mauritius, Slovakia, Venezuela and Zaire. In  conformity with the authority delegated to me by the Credentials Committee, 1 propose that the General  Conference accept these credentials.
8.4 In addition, the following countries which had previously submittcd no credentials have now submitted  provisional credentials: Argentina, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Sudan and United Republic of Tanzania. 1 propose  that these provisional credentials be accepted pending the submission of credentials in due form, and that the  delegations of these countries be authorized to participate in the meantime in the proceedings of the current  session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, especially for the speed with which the  Committee is working. Of course it is very important for the General Conference that the credentials formalities  be brought into order. Does any delegate wish to comment on the report? Let me remind you that if you have  any modifications. you should address them directly to the Credentials Committee.
9.2 The delegate of Italy has asked for the floor.
10. M. LEO (Italie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite seulement informer le Président du Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs qu’en date du 17 octobre, par la communication no 1254, nous avons envoye au Directeur général  copie de la lettre, je dis bien copie de la lettre, signée par le Ministre des affaires étrangères de la République  italienne qui désigne la délégation à cette Conférence générale. Cette copie de la lettre du Ministre était  accompagnée d’une lettre signée par moi-même. Je pense donc que nous avions dejà rempli nos obligations à ce  su.jet. En outre, ce matin même, nous avons adressé au Secrétariat l’original de la lettre, faisant ainsi, il me  semble, plus que nous conformer à ces obligations. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
11. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Italy. We take note of his remarks. Are there any other remarks? Then 1 Will  once again thank the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, which Will continue its work because 1 know
57    that there are still communications on their way. May 1 take it that the General Conference takes note of the  lïrst report of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee? It is SO decided.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuacion)  OPFAHH3PHMR PAEOTbI CECCMM (nponon>Kenne)  (&q Jbs’61 +i  I#mb ( $t)
12.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the general policy debate Will begin this afternoon: we have 22 speakers on the  list. Now, 22 times 8 is 176, meaning three hours, and if the interventions just take one minute more on  average you cari add another 22 minutes and SO on. SO 1 do hope you Will realize how important it is that the  time-limit of eight minutes be respected.
12.2 1 would also remind you that the possibility is provided, in document 28 C/2 which we have just  adopted, for part of an intervention to be submitted in writing. Not everything you wish to present or that your  head of delegation wishes to present to the Conference lias to be read out from the rostrum. 1 cari assure  everybody that what is in the written part of a contribution from a Member State Will be taken note of just as  meticulously and dutifully by the Secretariat as the spoken words: 1 have the firm commitment from the  Director-General in this connection. Let me appeal to you all, then, once more, to respect the time-limit of eight  minutes, and to remind you that time taken up by one speaker is taken away from another. For practical  purposes, 1 would advise you that on the rostrum there Will be a mechanism whereby after seven minutes a  discreet amber light Will tel1 you that seven minutes have passed. After one minute more there Will be a red  light to advise the speaker that the time is up. Finally, let me repeat that what you contribute in written form  Will bave exactly the same signifïcance as what is said orally.
12.3 We bave no more announcements at this time, SO 1 Will adjourn the meeting. We shall meet again at
3 o’clock, and we Will try to start as soon as possible. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 12 h.30  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 12.30