Quatrième séance plénière
22 octobre 1997 à 15 h.15  Président : M. PORTELLA (Brésil)  Fourth plenary meeting
22 October 1997 at 3.15 p.m.  President: Mr PORTELLA (Brazil)  Cuarta sesion plenaria
71    MESSAGES A LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  MESSAGES TO THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  MENSAJES A LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  IIOCJIAHIBI FEHEPAJIbHOti KOH@EPEHHBM  pi yy JI &y &J,  rsJk~EsiJiEQrlB~
1. Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, la quatrième séance plénière est ouverte. Le délégué permanent de la République  islamique d’Iran nous a informés que le Président de la République de son pays avait adressé un message à la  Conférence générale. Si personne n’y voit d’objection, je vais passer la parole à S. Ext. M. Jalali pour qu’il nous  donne lecture de la traduction en anglais de ce message. Vous avez la parole, M. Jalali.
2.1 Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran):  In the name of God, the Mercifùl, the Compassionate. Thank you, Mr President. The message is as  follows: As the President of a country which, during her long history, has hosted many different cultures, and has  also made a great contribution to the creation and the spread of Islamic civilization, 1 am honoured to address the  General Conference of UNESCO, an organization which aims to bring about mutual understanding between  different cultures.
2.2 In the same way that the basic unity of the natural world goes hand in hand with the astonishing diversity  of natural phenomena, the essential unity of humankind does not contradict the amazing ethnie and cultural  diversity of human societies. It is not a self-imposing and monolithic unity that tolerates no diversity. In the Holy  Koran, the plurality of human languages is considered as one of the signs of Divine Wisdom, and the plurality of  human societies as a means by which mutual understanding is enriched. It is through this that a common human  civilization is constituted.
2.3 Not every kind of divers@ should be seen as a source of conflict. The cause of conflict lies rather in  mutual misunderstanding between people and ignorance towards someone who is considered as the ‘other’. The  essential question, on the philosophical as well as the political level, is: Who is this ‘other’? Where does his  realm of existence begin? How cari we create a relationship between ‘me’ and the ‘other’, without establishing, at  the same time, a relationship of domination and exploitation? In the Holy Koran, trying to create this relationship  is one of the main axes around which followers of different religions cari corne together and create a common  ground of understanding.
2.4 A great step to take towards this objective would be a close examination of the concept of  ‘globalization’ promulgated today by the West, to see whether it could be acceptable to a11 cultures alike. For  many non-western, especially Muslim, peoples, this concept appears to mean that a11 non-western cultures are  asked to remain forever at the receiving end, and to listen to the messages which arrive from the other side  without having their own response, or at least without having the necessary channels to transmit it. But it is a vain  hope that, in the name of ‘globalization’, a11 cultures Will give up their own identity and leave the fïeld open to  benefit a Western culture alone.
2.5 TO achieve peace and understanding, some kind of remedy, some kind of balm, must be found for the  wounds of the past. The injuries inflicted over the past few centuries to non-western countries are undeniable. In  recent years, some Western leaders have asked forgiveness for the crimes of the Holocaust. One may ask, why  don? Western leaders also apologize for the crimes of colonialism? Such an act would alleviate many enmities  and pave the way for sympathy and mutual understanding.
2.6 Unfortunately, in the picture drawn of Islam by some Western media, one of the points which is often  emphasized is the charge of ‘expansionism’ raised against Muslims or at least some Muslim groups. Here, 1  would like only to draw your attention to the historical facts and simply ask: In the last few centuries, who has  been continually expanding its realm of influence and has considered any means justified for this purpose? 1s it  Islamic or Western civilization? The answer is clear, even if the latter has done it in the name of its supposed  civilizing mission or the ‘white man’s burden’.
2.7 Although every person and every culture is bound by its own conditions, we cari reduce the thickness of  the walls that separate us, SO that we cari hear the voices of each other.
2.8 Will UNESCO help us to hear these voices? Will UNESCO help nations to preserve their own cultural  identity, and to achieve a proper understanding of the meaning of cultural backwardness?
2.9 Will it help us to understand that poverty cannot merely be reduced to material poverty? Will UNESCO  be a place for seeking solutions to the problems arising fiom a science-based concept of existence, and other  problems created by the unchecked advance of science and technology?
2.10 Will UNESCO help the people to give a meaning to ‘globalization’ SO that it does not amount to  ‘Westemization’? And, fmally, Will UNESCO, at the international level, promote the sprit of dialogue instead of  ‘the clash between civilizations’?
2.11 In working towards the achievement of these aims, 1 wish success for this session ofthe General  Conference, and for UNESCO. 1 am confident that Iranian thinkers, scholars, and artists Will never shrink from  their utmost endeavour in this path.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je souhaiterais maintenant vous informer que Mme Rigoberta Menchu Tum, prix  Nobel de la paix et ambassadrice de bonne volonté auprès de I’UNESCO, aurait aimé intervenir devant la  Conférence générale. Elle ne peut malheureusement être parmi nous, mais nous a fait parvenir un message dont le  Secrétariat va nous donner lecture.
(4.1) The SECRETARY (Translation from the Spanish):
1 have the honour to communicate to the General Conference the following message from MS Rigoberta  Menchu:  ‘Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Director-General of UNESCO, Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished representatives of governments, ladies and gentlemen: it is a  great honour for me to address the 29th session of the General Conference of UNESCO, an institution which has  worked hard to maintain and strengthen education and culture in all corners of the earth. On the occasion of this  important meeting, 1 have ventured to send you a few words of congratulation and support for the invaluable work  that UNESCO has been doing in world education, science and culture in recent years.
(4.2) 1 particularly want to congratulate its Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, on the outstanding  role he has played in the construction of a culture of peace, which involves a whole set of fundamental values  designed to create bonds of harmonious coexistence linking states, peoples and individuals, and which does not  only propose a way of solving confrontations and wars. Today, as a Goodwill Ambassador of UNESCO, 1 feel very  proud to form part of its efforts to help create this culture of peace through activities which, going far beyond  tolerance and the ending of wars, foster dialogue and understanding between the parties in conflict and  reconciliation among the different sectors of our societies. Even more important is conflict prevention, to which we  cari only aspire if we educate our peoples, and especially our governments, in the culture of peace.
(4.3) Moreover, 1 wish to express my support for the claim of Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza that peace should  be considered a human right, a right of peoples, since hitherto there have only been rules and agreements regulating  war. 1 am fully convinced that the right to peace should form part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as  an individual right, as well as a right of peoples and nations. In other words, peace should be a universal right.
(4.4) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 would remind all the Member States of UNESCO that we are currently  celebrating the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People, which was proclaimed by the United  Nations in 1994. What is particularly signifïcant is the fact that this Decade began at the end of one millennium and  Will end in the next. In the context of the Decade, we indigenous people wish to lay considerable emphasis on our  contributions to humanity. Our cultures, which are still flourishing, pass through the global village, maintaining our  centuries-old roots and strengthening the dignity that we have inherited from our forebears. in this Decade, as we  have been doing for centuries, we indigenous people reiterate our readiness to engage in dialogue between peoples  and cultures. 1 am therefore grateful to UNESCO for its invaluable support for our initiatives as indigenous  communities and people.
(4.5) There is no doubt, Mr Director-General, that there is still a long way to go. but we are already  acknowledging the diversity of our cultures, religions and ways of thinking. The various sectors of society are  participating with a greater sense of responsibility as the new millennium approaches. There cari be no doubt that  we have become aware of the need to build a more harmonious relationship among human beings and between  human beings and nature, as well as among peoples and among nations. Thanks to the activities undertaken by  various bodies, outstanding among which is UNESCO, we are, in the words of Federico Mayor Zaragoza, writing a  ‘new page’ of history, the page of a culture of peace based on democracy.
(4.6) In conclusion, 1 wish to encourage the distinguished members of UNESCO to continue the immense task  which has been begun in a wide variety of fields in all countries of the world. Lastly, 1 wish to express my profound  admiration for Mr Federico Mayor for the untiring work. patience and wisdom with which he has helped to spread  the influence of UNESCO’s work throughout the world’. Thank you.
4  ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DU ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET D’IRLANDE DU NORD,  A SON RETOUR AU SEIN DE L’UNESCO  FORMAL WELCOMING OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN  IRELAND ON ITS RETURN TO UNESCO  BIENVENIDA SOLEMNE AL REIN0 UNIDO DE GRAN BRETANA E IRLANDA DEL NORTE,  A SU REGRESO A LA UNESCO  OQHHHAJIbHOE B03BPAIIlEHBE COEflMHEHHOl-0 KOPOJIEBCTBA BEJIHKOEPMTAHMM II  CEBEPHOji HPJIAH,@IB B IOHECKO
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Nous avons l’immense plaisir d’accueillir parmi nous le Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande  du Nord, qui est redevenu membre de l’Organisation le ler juillet 1997. Les instruments d’acceptation ont été  déposés en bonne et due forme. J’ai l’honneur d’inviter S. Ext. Mme Claire Short, secrétaire d’Etat au  développement international, chef de la délégation du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord, à  venir placer sur la tribune le drapeau de son pays.  (The Head of the Delegation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northem Ireland  places the flag of her country on the rostrum)  (Applause)
6.1 MS SHORT (United Kingdom):  Thank you very much indeed for that warm welcome. It is 12 years since a member of the British  Govemment has addressed a UNESCO General Conference. 1 am very proud and happy to be the member of the  British Govemment who brings the United Kingdom back into the UNESCO family, and we are very pleased to  be back with you.  (Applause)
6.2 Mr President, despite the progress in recent years towards UNESCO’s ideals, and we recognize the  enormous progress you have made while we have been away, we still, 1 am sure you a11 agree, face challenges  which cari only be solved by the co-operation of the global community. My own overriding objective is the  elimination of absolute poverty from the world. Nearly one in four of the people of the world are living in  absolute poverty. The proportion has dropped - that is our great achievement - but the numbers are growing. Thus  in terms of the needs of real, individual human beings, we are going backwards. We must do better. The end of  the Cold War gives us an opportunity to begin a new era and to make. faster progress. Ulterior motives - on a11  sides - cari now be eliminated, and we cari concentrate on the main objective of bringing development to the  people of the world. If we a11 agree to focus our efforts and those of the whole United Nations system on poverty  elimination, we could begin a great era of progress. 1 hope that we Will achieve this, and that UNESCO Will be a  major force helping to build that new era.
6.3 Education is, as we a11 know, the key to poverty elimination. Al1 of us - and that is probably everyone in  this room - who have been lucky enough to be given educational opporhmities know how that has transformed  our lives. Basic education for a11 the children of the world by 20 15 is one of our targets. It is a great challenge but  also an achievable aim. We have it within our power, if we want it badly enough, to abolish illiteracy from the  human condition for the next generation - to abolish it completely. 1 hope that UNESCO Will be at the forefront  in helping to achieve this aim.
6.4 Basic education also, of course, empowers the poor. 1 visited slums in Dhaka in Bangladesh very  recently, and was moved by the strength and dignity of those who leamed to read as adults and went on to  organize their communities. 1 recently met poor and isolated village women in Uganda who made me promise to  provide support SO that they could leam to read. 1 have sat with Child labourers struggling to leam in the tiny  amounts of spare time available to them. The thirst for education among the poor is overwhelming. It is our duty  to ensure that that thirst is quenched.
6.5 For the United Kingdom, membership of UNESCO means leaming fiom others and contributing our  own experience. 1 hope that our renewed membership Will bring an international dimension to educational
75    thinking in the United Kingdom, and open up our experience to wider scrutiny. Countries worldwide are engaged  in educationa change and development at varying speeds and with varying objectives. Clearly, we will a11 be  better if we leam from each other. UNESCO has a unique role in disseminathg information about global  experience in education. In bridging the developed and developing world, UNESCO cari provide insights into the  problems faced and solutions found throughout the world, SO that we do not a11 have to go on reinventing the  wheel but Will leam from each other’s best lessons, and indeed from each other’s failures. It should also be a  forum for monitoring and evaluating improvements in trends, and 1 hope that UNESCO will work to strengthen  its capacity for measurement and evaluation of output. 1 am keen on us improving our ability to get the statistics  right. It sounds like a very dry thing, but if our commitment is that every single Child in the world Will be in  education by 201.5, we must have the capacity to measure progress year on year, and to know what we are  achieving and to make sure we put things right in the countries that are not going forward. We must, in particular,  ensure that we have the means to monitor progress against our targets, year on year, so that we know - as I just  said - where we are succeeding and where we are failing.
6.6 Mr President, this is a big agenda. It Will, of course, require hard choices - concentrating on priorities,  avoiding activities which are better done by others. The United Kingdom is, in a11 humility, newly back in  UNESCO, but 1 am - 1 must confess - personally impatient to ensure that we strengthen and increase the  effectiveness of a11 the United Nations agencies. Much has been achieved and 1 honour and respect what  UNESCO has achieved in our absence. But for as long as we live with such high levels of poverty and illiteracy,  we must admit that none of our arrangements are good enough.
6.7 My own priority is education for those who are excluded, although we obviously also attach great  importance to UNESCO’s other programmes, not least its interdisciplinary programmes. Science - and the  distribution of its fruits more widely - has a vital role in empowering people: for example, in providing the  knowledge for sustainable utilization of natural resources and increasing our understanding of the world around  us. Culture, too, is of course of enormous importance. It is the expression of our humanity and creativity in  society. We camrot respect people without respecting their culture. The culture programme serves the important  purpose of enhancing and preserving both living culture and our natural heritage. Both are precious and essential.  We Will not make progress if we do not understand and treasure our past. But we should also use culture more  actively to promote development and reach out to the excluded; for example, the role of theatre to promote social  messages is being increasingly realized. 1 am also pleased that we have remained a member ofthe World  Heritage Convention. And on some of these issues, on which the United Kingdom is not in the forefront, 1 hope  that we Will make more progress too.
6.8 Looking more widely, the United Nations system as a whole has changed in recent years. Reform has  taken root. But 1 want to say this really clearly, and it is the view of my govemment: too otIen in the past, the  voices calling for reform in the United Nations system have appeared to be driven by those who wished to  undermine the system and to save money. Those of us who treasure the United Nations and want to strengthen it,  must take over the reform agenda. 1 want to support reform that increases the effectiveness of the United Nations  system and 1 want the savings made to be pumped back into development. The Secretary-General has advanced  this process in his recent Track II reforms - an agenda 1 strongly support and commend. 1 believe it is the duty of  a11 who tare for the United Nations to support the Secretary-General’s reforms, and 1 certainly hope a new British  Govemment cari build new alliances for change, alliances based on determination to make progress in  development, to strengthen the United Nations system, and to spend our money as effectively as possible in  bringing advance, education and hope to the people of the world who are excluded at present.
6.9 Over the past ten years, the Director-General has instituted many changes in this Organization and the  way it operates, and we congratulate him on a11 he has achieved. We Will work closely with him and a11 our  partners and a11 of you to lùrther this process. Change cari of course be demanding and unsettling. But we must  do a11 that is necessary to ensure that UNESCO maintains its role in the forefront of world intellectual  development.
6.10 Mr President, it is ideas which set people free. We are coming to the end of an era of very little idealism.  We must have fine ideas to take the world forward and we must rekindle idealism in the world system.  (Applause)
6.11 One of my own persona1 messages is, you know, that lots of us are children of the sixties, an era of great  hope, advance and idealism across the world; now, lots of us are in positions of power in our countries, and it is  our duty to put some optimism and idealism back into politics in general and international politics in particular.  That we must do, and then we cari herald an era of great advance which the world needs badly.
6.12 The continued relevance of UNESCO’s role is a testament to the foresight of its founders. 1 am proud  that the fit-st major@ Labour Govemment in the United Kingdom played a part back in 1945 in UNESCO%  conception. We now look forward to renewing and strengthening our close relationship to face the challenges of  the future.
6.13 Let me end now - because one of our duties in the international system, too, is to use our time well -  simply by thanking everyone here today for the welcome the United Kingdom has received since its retum.  Genuinely, we are very touched by the warmth of your reception of our retum and we treasure it greatly. The  goodwill we have been shown has been overwhelming. 1 would particularly like to thank Federico Mayor for  maintaining an open hand to us throughout our absence. It is good to be back with you at this Conference. 1 hope  we cari work together to achieve a new era of progress and advance.  (Applause)
7. Le PRES&ENT :  Je remercie S. Ext. Mme Short.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OECY>KfiEHHE BOIIPOCOB OEI.IIEfi IIO.JIHTHKM (npononxenne)  (/a+) LWI L&Jl Lkaio  dB&%%% ( $3 1
8. Le PRESIDENT :  J’invite maintenant l’orateur suivant, S. Ext. M. Balint Magyar, ministre de la culture et de l’éducation de  la Hongrie, à prononcer son discours.
9.1 Mr MAGYAR (Hungary):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, allow me first, Mr President, to offer my warm  congratulations on your election and to convey the Hungarian delegation’s good wishes for your responsible task  as President of the General Conference.
9.2 It is a great privilege to take the floor immediately afier the distinguished delegate of the United  Kingdom to say how important we consider the retum of this founding State to our Organization. We are  convinced that the British retum Will launch such dynamism as Will bring back those who are still away SO that it  is with a UNESCO that has completely regained its universality that we face the challenges of the new  millennium.
9.3 We are convinced that UNESCO has never been more needed than it is today in a globalizing world.  The intellectual co-operation of a11 the countries is needed SO that we may grasp the opportunities of globalization  while averting its dangers. UNESCO may efficiently contribute to preventing the new communication  technologies from making cultures and languages uniform, but, rather, to preserving the richness of their  diversity!
9.4 UNESCO may effectively contribute to the regulation of the dazzling development of science with  ethical barriers erected in the interest of humanity. Hungary attaches special importance to the convening of the  Worfd Science Conference 1999, a forum where the most eminent representatives of science and science-policy  decision-makers may exchange views on the social and ethical issues of scientifïc development on the threshold  of the new millennium in order to commit themselves to use research in the service of social development. 1 am  glad to inform the General Conference that the Republic of Hungary has officially announced that Budapest is  ready to host this outstanding event. With this offer Hungary stresses its commitment to participate actively in the  worldwide intellectual co-operation which UNESCO represents. We must work together to preserve our  environment, we must work together for the broadest possible spread and sharing of knowledge.
9.5 Mr President, distinguished delegates, Hungary supports the Draft Programme and Budget for 1998-
1999 and its priorities. We are pleased to note that UNESCO continues to emphasize with the same vigour the  utmost importance of education for a11 throughout life. We take an active part in joint thinking about the  modemization of higher education. May 1 say here that in order to reduce the effects of the brain drain, as of
1997 the Hungarian Ministry of Culture and Education is paying 2,000 university lecturers eight times the  minimum wage in Hungary for four years, in addition to their regular salary.
9.6 We are happy to see the vital@ of the World Heritage Programme. Earlier this month Hungary  organized an international conference on the occasion of the twenty-IïI?h anniversary of the World Heritage  Convention. We continue to accord special support to the European Centre for Traditional Culture. The fostering  of today’s cultural endeavours is just as important as the preservation of the cultural heritage. During the historic  transition in the early 1990s in the course of the emergence of a pluralist democracy and market economy,  Hungary encountered certain difficulties in the Iïnancing of its cultural institutions. We have elaborated new  techniques (the National Cultural Fund, and SO on) whereby we have succeeded in moving ahead. The  international UNESCO Conference organized in January 1997 in Budapest was most usetül for our whole region,  where countries are facing similar problems. The follow-up of that Conference is proposed in our draft  resolution, in which we recommend the establishment of a regional observatory on financing culture.
9.7 We accord great significance to the widest possible application of the new information and  communication technologies. The John von Neumann Digital Library is scheduled to open in Budapest in 2000.  Work is well under way on the scheme to provide each secondary school in Hungary with a computer linked up  to the Internet by the middle of 1998.
9.8 We fully support UNESCO’s efforts to achieve linguistic divers@ at a11 levels of education and  consider the integration of the Department of Minority Studies at Budapest University into the UNESCO Chairs’  Network to have been an important event.
9.9 We are also happy that a Women’s Centre is to be set up in Budapest in the near future with UNESCO’s  co-operation. The Hungarian National Commission, successfully co-ordinating UNESCO activities in Hungary,  intends to open a ‘UNESCO House’ to provide offices for certain Hungarian institutions connected with the  Organization.
9.10 Mr President, Mr Director-General, the Draft Programme and Budget that has been submitted to the  General Conference is an ambitious and excellent document. The close and precise co-operation of the goveming  bodies and the Secretariat Will be indispensable to its implementation. The Organization must, therefore, make  further progress with continuous reform. In this respect, it is important that the Ad Hoc Group of Experts to  Study the Structure and Function of the General Conference has successfully completed its work. We are  particularly happy that the group also had a Hungarian member, and we support the working group’s  recommendations. Another important step forward is the fact that the programme submitted Will not simply be  noted by the General Conference, but Will be adopted in its entirety, thereby giving the programme a binding  force. Thus, the Executive Board Will be able to undertake the implementation of the programme in accordance  with its mandate. 1 cari assure you that the representative of Hungary on the Board Will do his best in that regard.  We consider it important that our General Conference, on the basis of the recommendations of the Executive  Board, should approve a budget which is marked by the commitment to efficient implementation of the  programme and of rationalization of management.
9.11 Mr President, next year we Will celebrate the Iïftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. UNESCO, in its flelds of competence, has done a great deal to assert the rights enshrined in that  Declaration. In our view, the duty of UNESCO on the occasion of the anniversary is to disseminate the  Declaration as widely as possible. Let us cal1 on a11 teachers to introduce the content of the Declaration at a11  levels of education.
9.12 Allow me to put forward another recommendation: We hereby propose that a Universal Declaration of  Pupils’ Rights in Public Education should be elaborated and adopted. This document would include requirements  that would ensure, in schools of a11 types around the world, the fi111 enforcement of both human rights and the  rights of the Child. TO lay the groundwork for the formulation of this document, we shall be organizing an  international conference in February 1998.
9.13 Mr President, the universal values represented by UNESCO are extremely important to Hungary. We  wish to participate with full commitment in the realization of the objectives defined by the Organization. Thank  you.
10. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Ole Vig Jensen, ministre de  l’éducation du Danemark.
11.1 Mr JENSEN (Denmark):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may 1 congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to high office at this  session of the General Conference. May 1 also join in welcoming back one of the founding nations - the United  Kingdom.
11.2 Let me say at the outset that we appreciate the steps that UNESCO has taken - within its fïelds of  competence - to meet the challenges facing the world. The Medium-Term Strategy for the years 1996 to 200 1  constitutes a sound foundation for UNESCO’s work in the years to corne.
11.3 1 wish to underline that we must pursue iürther the concentration of programmes. We must use our  scarce resources on tore activities and not allow our programme to be spread over too many activities. When we  adopt the Draft Programme at this Conference, we must also adopt the budget to finance it. Furthermore, we must  a11 pay our contributions to the budget in full, on time and without any conditions.
11.4 Mr President, another area in which UNESCO has taken some important steps forward is administrative  and structural reform. Recently at the United Nations General Assembly, the Danish Prime Minister - Mr Pou1  Nyrup Rasmussen - stressed that reforms must be a priority for the United Nations and gave Denmark’s full  support to the reform programme of the Secretary-General. At UNESCO, the push for administrative reform has  gathered momentum during the 1990s.
11.5 In 1995, the General Conference asked the President of the General Conference, Mr Torben Krogh, to  preside an ad hoc working group on the structure and working methods of the General Conference. We now have  the results of this group’s work, together with the Executive Board’s comments and not surprisingly, Denmark  appreciates these results. We believe that the General Conference’s endorsement of the group’s recommendations  would be a major step towards more efficient and policy-oriented sessions of the General Conference. However,  the Executive Board itself also needs reform. We have therefore tabled a draft resolution to this end.
11.6 Mr President, our general satisfaction with the work of UNESCO has led Denmark to become a major  donor in terms of extrabudgetary contributions to UNESCO. In July 1996, my govemment concluded a  framework agreement with UNESCO on co-operation for development, according to which the Danish  Govemment places roughly $20 million at the disposa1 of UNESCO over a four-year period for operational  development activities, primarily in least developed countries.
11.7 Mr President, during 1998, the United Nations Will celebrate the fïftieth anniversary of the Universai  Declaration of Human Rights, which is, to us, sufficient as a tool for the protection of individuals against their  violation. In this context, 1 wish to draw your attention to a draft resolution that my country has tabled together  with other Nordic countries and which is co-sponsored by a number of other countries. The resolution concems  the strengthening of civic education and the establishment of an International Academy for Education and  Democracy. When 1 launched this idea at the Adult Education Conference in Hamburg last July, my proposa1 was  welcomed by the delegates at the Conference as well as by UNESCO’s Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor.
11.8 Mr President, we propose this Academy to UNESCO: because democracy presupposes education;  because education for democracy must be democratic itself; and because democratic ideals are gathering  momentum a11 over the world, including within education systems.
11.9 The purpose of the Academy Will be to shed light on the relationship between education and democracy  and on education as a tool for active citizenship, and we shall invite participants from all parts of the world to  join us in this effort to promote democracy in a11 corners of the world. It is the Danish Govemment’s intention to  establish the International Academy as soon as possible. lt is our hope that the activities of the Academy cari be  developed in close co-operation with UNESCO in the years to corne, and that a11 UNESCO’s Member States Will  join us.
11.10 Mr President, allow me now briefly to retum to the subject of the World Conference on Adult Education  held in Hamburg, Germany, this summer. At the Conference, the importance of adult education, especially for  women, was emphasized. In many countries of the world, adult education represents the only chance for women  to obtain an education that enables them to participate in the development of society. In this context, we welcome  the mainstreaming of gender perspectives in UNESCO’s programmes as a follow-up to the Fourth World  Conference on Women, held in Beijing in September 1995. We wish, however, to give UNESCO’s activities on  the status of women better visibility and better evaluation instruments. We have - together with the other Nordic  countries - tabled a draft resolution which strengthens UNESCO’s work in the field of gender-sensitive statistics.  We hope that this initiative Will receive wide support.
11.11 Mr President, 1 Will not take up more of our precious time. My government’s comments on programme  matters not mentioned here have therefore been taken up in the written part of my statement.
11.12 In conclusion, Mr President, the Danish Govemment is satistïed with the positive development at  UNESCO. It is our wish that this development Will continue and Will make it possible for UNESCO to reach its  noble goals of peace and justice through co-operation in education, science, culture and communication. Thank  you.
12. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M Kensaku Morita, vice-ministre  parlementaire de l’éducation du Japon.
13.1 Mr MORITA (Japan):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf  of the Govemment of Japan, let me express my congratulations to you, Mr Portella, on your election as the  President of the General Conference. 1 also wish to extend my appreciation to the Executive Board and the  Director-General and his staff for their efforts in preparing for this session.
13.2 I wish to express my sincere welcome to the United Kingdom. The retum of the United Kingdom is of  great significance in securing the universality of UNESCO. 1 eagerly look forward to the retum of the United  States and Singapore to UNESCO as soon as possible.
13.3 Mr President, humankind is now confronted with various environmental problems like global wanning,  desertifïcation and ozone depletion. Many problems regarding population, poverty, starvation and illiteracy’are  growing more serious. UNESCO is increasingly required to contribute actively to world peace and the welfare of  humankind. It is necessary for UNESCO to place more emphasis on its role as an organization for intellectual co-  operation. As it is very important for UNESCO to diffuse widely its ideals and activities, full utilization of new  information technologies is essential.
13.4 Not only govemment authorities and experts but also NGOs have an important role in promoting  UNESCO activities. In 1947, the tïrst non-govemmental UNESCO association was set up in Japan, and Japan  has played a leading role in developing a non-governmental UNESCO movement. In November this year the  National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan Will hold the fïftieth anniversary ceremony in Tokyo.  This event Will help people increase their awareness of the role of NGOs in a11 the Organization’s activities.
13.5 Mr President, it is through decentralization within UNESCO that high-quality projects based on the real  circumstances of individual countries cari be carried out. 1 suggest that UNESCO should formulate  comprehensive guidelines regarding decentralization.
13.6 The ‘Policy Paper for Change and Development in Higher Education’ set off a lively debate on major  trends and future prospects in higher education. Against this background, in July this year, Japan hosted a  regional conference on higher education in co-operation with the United Nations University. 1 hope that the  valuable results of the conference Will be fully reflected in next year’s World Conference on Higher Education.
13.7 Mr President, allow me to comment on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1998-1999. First of all, in  view of the severe fïnancial circumstances in many Member States, including my country, and in view of the  reforms under way in many other agencies in the United Nations system, UNESCO should further promote its  concentration on selected priority projects, as well as the rationalization and improvement of its own  administration and management. 1 wish to reiterate the basic position of my country, that UNESCO should limit  the total scale of its regular budget for the next biennium to the same level as that of the current biennium,  although duly respecting the consensus decision of the Executive Board in this regard. Secondly, in examining  the Draft Programme and Budget, full consideration should be given to the recommendations submitted by the  Executive Board at its 15 1 st session.
13.8 Let me next express my views on programmes which 1 believe UNESCO should implement as a matter  of priority. First, 1 would like to comment on education. The document pays due regard to the report ‘Leaming:  The Treasure Within’. 1 support the proposa1 that education for ail throughout life be defined as the basic  concept for the entire programme in education. 1 highly commend the high priority given to the promotion of  literacy education. Japan has been contributing to the UNESCO funds-in-trust for the promotion of literacy in  Asia and the Pacifie. The Asia/Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO has been developing an Asia-Pacific literacy  database. Further, thanks to the co-operation of Member States, the Centre’s project for publishing a picture book  ‘Guess What I’m Doing’ has been successfully completed. The National Federation of UNESCO Associations in
4  Japan has been giving support and assistance to developing countries in their activities for the promotion of  literacy, by means of a world Terakoya Movement. 1 would like to add that the programme activities for marking  the tïftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Will provide excellent opportunities for  helping people recognize anew the importance of education in this area.
13.9 Secondly, let me tum to the fïeld of sciences. Japan highly appreciates UNESCO’s efforts and  achievements for the solution of various global issues such as the environment. The special session of the United  Nations General Assembly on global environmental issues confirmed the tûrther implementation of Agenda 2 1  and identified freshwater, oceans, forests and climate change as top priority areas. In this context, UNESCO’s  science programmes,  increasingly  including IOC, IHP, MAB, IGCP and programmes conceming solar energy, are  important. As there is a growing need for interdisciplinary approaches in natural sciences and social  and human sciences, the role of the MOST programme Will expand. Early next year, Japan Will launch a regional  seminar on environmental education in Asia and the Pacifïc. Next year Will be International Year of the Ocean.  Japan, which made great contributions to the establishment of the Intergovemmental Oceanographic  Commission, plans to hold various commemorative events. We must continue to deepen awareness of the  importance of the conservation of our oceans.
13.10 Thirdly, allow me to tum to programmes in the field of culture. Since, in accordance with the  Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, Japan has been making an increased  effort to protect world heritage. In June this year, my govemment nominated ‘Historic Monuments of Ancient  Nara’ to the World Heritage Committee. 1 would like to take this opportunity to inform you that in December
1998 Japan intends to host the twenty-second session of the World Heritage Committee.
13.11 Mr President, in my country, the present Cabinet has drawn up six major reform agendas: education  reform is vital, and through it, the govemment is now implementing relevant policies for the empowerment of  children. For many years, 1 have devoted myself to promoting the sound development of Young people. This is  my ‘passion. Therefore, 1 find the round tables and discussions on youth during the present session quite  significant. Now that we are approaching the twenty-fïrst cenmry, let us bring together our wisdom and make  concerted efforts SO that the international commun@ in the twenty-tïrst Century may be prosperous for the  coming generations. Thank you very much.
14. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Japon et donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Antonio Burity da Silva  Neto, ministre de l’éducation de l’Angola.
15.1 M. BURITY DA SILVA NET0 (Angola) :  (discours prononcé en portugais, texte fiançais fourni par la délégation)  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter  pour votre élection à la présidence .de la 29e session de la Conférence générale de I’LJNESCO. Je voudrais aussi  exprimer, au nom du gouvernement angolais, de la délégation qui m’accompagne et en mon nom personnel, nos  voeux de succès pour les travaux de cette présente session. Je voudrais également saluer tous les délégués  présents à cette session de la Conférence générale.
15.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, il est de fait que la fin, voici presque dix ans, de la guerre froide ne s’est pas  accompagnée de la paix tant attendue et souhaitée, pas plus au niveau local que dans le reste du monde. Au seuil  même du XXIe siècle, les conflits militaires localisés, notamment au Moyen-Orient et en Afrique, deviennent un  trait constant de cette planète qui est la nôtre, planète où abondent non seulement toutes sortes de contradictions  profondes - par exemple entre la mondialisation de l’économie et le sous-développement - mais aussi de facteurs  concourant à renforcer l’interdépendance, en particuiier dans le domaine de la technologie.
15.3 Sombre tableau marqué par des conflits inemes latents ou déclarés dus à l’intolérance, à la haine, à  l’injustice, à l’exclusion, aux inégalités économiques, sociales, culturelles. Ce tableau, dirai-je, est  symptomatique.
15.4 Malgré cette situation, et dans l’esprit de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme qui va bientôt  fêter ses cinquante ans, le gouvernement de mon pays poursuit ses efforts en vue de mobiliser l’ensemble de la  société civile. Ces efforts s’étendent à la diffusion et à l’application de cette Déclaration universelle.
15.5 Les succès obtenus, Monsieur le Président, lors des Conférences internationales de Jomtien, Rio de  Janeiro, Le Caire, Beijing, Copenhague et Istanbul, constituent la preuve palpable que le monde place l’être  humain au centre de toutes ses préoccupations.
15.6 Nous nous félicitons de ce que la stratégie élaborée pour 1996-200 1 ait véritablement tenu compte des  recommandations de ces conférences.
15.7 Cette 29e session est pour les Etats membres et non membres, de même que pour toutes les ONG, une  occasion souveraine, car elle leur permet de prendre position sur les sujets abordés et sur le contenu du 29 C/5,  lequel est axé sur la conquête de la paix et d’un développement humain durable par l’éducation, la science, la  culture et la communication. Cela justifie, dans une certaine mesure, l’adhésion de l’Angola à un programme  d’action pour une culture de la paix, comme nous avons déjà eu l’occasion de l’indiquer. Cette adhésion reste  intacte, tout particulièrement en ce moment où le processus de paix en Angola bute encore sur d’énormes  obstacles, alors même qu’il est sur le point d’aboutir.
15.8 Etant donné les effets positifs du respect et de la mise en pratique des valeurs universellement reconnues  - liberte, tolérance, justice, solidarité, équité - la paix peut et doit être transmise collectivement dans les foyers, à  l’école, au travail, dans les quartiers, dans les associations, dans un esprit de prévention et d’élimination des  conflits d’une part, et de construction et de consolidation de la paix, de l’autre.
15.9 Aux tins de la mise en oeuvre des activités de I’UNESCO, prévues dans ses différents programmes, la  République d’Angola approuve le plafond budgétaire de 544.367.250 dollars proposé pour le prochain exercice  biennal (199% 1999).
15.10 Monsieur le Président, nous pensons que la crise que connaît aujourd’hui l’Angola est l’entière  responsabilité de certains dirigeants politiques qui n’ont pas hésité à plonger le pays dans une guerre dévastatrice.  Toutefois, il nous paraît maintenant nécessaire de créer les conditions propres à engager la jeunesse angolaise  dans le processus - difficile - de la réconciliation nationale. Nous adhérons donc aux actions préconisées par  I’UNESCO dans le domaine de la jeunesse.
15.11 Les critères économiques ne suffisant plus à définir le concept du développement et, de ce fait, à  promouvoir la dignité et le bien-être de l’humanité, la tendance actuelle est à considérer le développement comme  le reste à la lumière de plusieurs paramètres, depuis les libertés politiques, économiques, sociales jusqu’aux  possibilités offertes à chacun d’entre nous de vivre en bonne santé, d’avoir accès à l’éducation, d’être productif et  créatif dans son existence, de vivre dans la dignité et d’exercer pleinement ses droits - et de s’acquitter de ses  devoirs comme tout être humain.
15.12 L’univers est à la fois unique et divers, L’espèce humaine, avec ses aspirations, ses besoins, ses attentes,  ses angoisses, ses incertitudes, est la plus belle expression de l’unicité du monde. La diversité, quant à elle, se  caractérise par des tensions ou des conflits entre le local et le global, entre le traditionnel et le moderne, entre le  rural et l’urbain, entre un développement ayant pour seul objectif l’accroissement matériel et le progrés culturel,  entre un Nord toujours plus riche et un Sud de plus en plus pauvre.
15.13 Cette unicité comme cette diversité suscitent à la fois l’espoir et des doutes quant à l’héritage que nous  serons à même de léguer aux générations futures.
15.14 Si l’on veut rapprocher les êtres humains, il est indispensable que les quatre piliers de l’apprentissage  identifiés par la Commission Delors, à savoir : apprendre à connaître, à faire, à être et à vivre ensemble, soient  compris et soient mis en oeuvre. En outre, les valeurs considérées comme communes par tous les peuples peuvent  représenter des intérêts opposés ou divergents. Ces valeurs énoncées par la Commission Pérez de Cuéllar sont  liées à la prise de conscience de notre diversité créatrice et ne seront bénéfiques pour la constitution du village  planétaire qu’à condition que les institutions gouvernementales et non gouvernementales et les sociétés  transnationales appliquent et souhaitent véritablement appliquer un certain nombre de principes : droits.et devoirs  de l’être humain, démocratie et société civile, protection des minorités, résolution des conflits par le dialogue et  des négociations équitables, équité entre les générations. Les deux rapports essentiels que je viens de citer sont  appelés à orienter nos réflexions tout au long du prochain exercice biennal.
15.15 Monsieur le Président, le processus de décentralisation n’implique pas nécessairement de nouveaux  investissements, ni l’ouverture de nouvelles représentations diplomatiques. Il s’agit de créer une synergie, avec les  Etats membres, les ONG, la société civile, le PNUD, etc., et d’y acquérir une meilleure visibilité afin de  rapprocher encore davantage I’UNESCO de ses Etats membres en tenant compte des nécessités et des aspirations  locales.
15.16 Il est à souligner que les unites décentralisées sont indispensables dans les pays dont la commission  nationale inactive apparaît responsable de la faible participation de certaines institutions gouvernementales et des  citoyens aux programmes de I’UNESCO.
15.17 Nous observons que depuis sa création en 1989, lors de la 25e session de la Conférence générale, le  programme Priorité Ahique a vu son contenu et sa place dans le C/.5 changer d’une session à l’autre, tantôt  programme d’action dont la stratégie, les objectifs et les composantes répondent aux préoccupations actuelles des  pays africains, tantôt simple structure d’appui, de coordination, d’animation et de promotion des activités menées  par les différents secteurs du programme, tantôt encore cadre de référence pour des activités plus globales et plus  ponctuelles. Pourtant, par-delà cette évolution que nous jugeons ambiguë, nous devons travailler encore  davantage pour que le programme Priorité Afrique devienne véritablement une réalité.
15.18 Par son caractère intellectuel et scientifique, I’UNESCO nous apparaît comme l’instrument de la  construction et de la consolidation d’un idéal qui exige la contribution à la fois de chacun et de tous. Nous avons  tous, membres de la communauté internationale, tellement à gagner de cette Organisation. Aussi pensons-nous  qu’il est urgent et tout à fait indispensable que les pays qui ont abandonné cette institution reviennent en son sein.  De même, nous pensons que ceux qui n’ont pas encore envisagé de devenir membres de l’UNESC0 soient  encouragés à le faire. Nous espérons donc que l’exemple du Royaume-Uni, dont nous nous réjouissons du retour,  sera suivi par d’autres pays, car ce retour, après une absence de dix ans, ne peut que conforter l’universalité de  l’Organisation. Sa participation va contribuer au renforcement des activités du programme menées dans les pays  en voie de développement.
15.19 Monsieur le Président, voici plus de deux décennies que l’Angola participe à la consolidation de l’oeuvre  de I’UNESCO. Nous pensons que les avantages sont réciproques pour les deux parties. Au cours des deux  dernières années, beaucoup a été fait, nous l’avons constaté, dans les divers domaines de compétence de  l’Organisation. A titre d’exemple, je citerai la mise en oeuvre du projet 534/ANG/lO sur le développement des  possibilités d’éducation pour la réadaptation des enfants vulnérables. Nous souhaiterions vivement que le  gouvernement italien qui finance ce projet et l’agence d’exécution - c’est-à-dire I’UNESCO - auxquels nous  rendons un vibrant hommage pour leur collaboration, nous aident de même pour le lancement de la deuxième  phase de ce projet (1997-2000).
15.20 Dans le domaine de la culture, permettez-moi de vous dire à quel point nous nous réjouissons d’avoir  organisé et accueilli en Angola le colloque international sur “Kimpa Vita”, tout comme la troisième réunion du  Comité international du projet “La route de l’esclave”. Au mois d’août de cette année, nous avons accueilli un  séminaire en vue de la rédaction d’une Histoire de l’Angola. Les conclusions et recommandations de toutes ces  réunions à caractère scientifique seront diffusées en temps opportun.
15.21 Il convient de souligner également que pour garantir le succès de toutes ces activités, il nous était  indispensable de pouvoir compter sur l’appui technique, matériel et financier de I’UNESCO.
15.22 Dans le domaine de la communication, la fourniture de matériel informatique, d’outils bibliographiques  et de services de formation des cadres nous aident à limiter ou à rattraper un retard qui se faisait criant. Cette aide  devra toutefois se poursuivre, car il reste encore beaucoup à faire.
15.23 N’oublions pas que l’Angola se trouve aux prises à de nombreux problèmes ; c’est un pays qui vient tout  juste de sortir d’une guerre, la plus dévastatrice jamais vue ou vécue en Afrique. Le gouvernement de l’Angola  comme I’UNESCO ne dispose que de ressources limitées. Aussi peut-être que les Etats membres souhaiteront  manifester leur fraternité et leur esprit de paix et de solidarité, et que, grâce à cette session, nous jetterons les  bases qui nous permettront d’aborder le XXIe siècle selon des voies plus sûres. Merci beaucoup.
16. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre. Je suis particulièrement heureux d’accueillir à présent Mme Rita  Süssmuth, présidente du Parlement allemand et présidente de la Conférence internationale sur l’éducation des  adultes. Mme Süssmuth a su donner une impulsion et une portée exceptionnelles à la cinquième Conférence  internationale sur l’éducation des adultes dont ont résulté la “Déclaration sur l’éducation des adultes” et YAgenda  pour l’avenir de l’éducation des adultes”. Je l’invite à prononcer son discours.
17.1 MS SÜSSMUTH (Chairperson of the Fifth International Conference on Adult Education):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, Ministers, heads of delegations and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to  have the opportunity to give a short report on the fifth International Conference on Adult Education, held in July  in Hamburg, Germany. Let me say that it was an exciting international conference, and, as the Director-General  said in his closing speech, it was a tuming point because for the fïrst time a United Nations conference brought  together, within the same assembly, 750 delegates of Member States and 700 representatives of NGOs from a11  the regions of the world. For the first time, representatives of govemments and of civil society agreed to talk
83    together for five days in the same hall and meeting rooms, and there was considerable prejudice, many  reservations, people saying it would not work; but 1 cari assure you that it did. While preserving their right to take  the final decision, the delegates of the 135 Member States agreed to discuss openly the draft documents and to  deliberate on proposals and amendments from NGOs. At the end, on the fïfih day, a strong consensus was  reached among a11 representatives, both govemmental and non-govemmental, and the Declaration and the  Agenda for the Future were adopted unanimously. 1 am convinced that we, parliamentarians and govermnent  delegates, need to talk more and more with representatives of civil society. 1 am, personally, happy to have  participated in this ‘première ’ which, 1 hope, Will be followed by many other similar dialogues in a11 areas of  UNESCO activities.
17.2 Adult education has become a societal issue. If so many delegates and participants came to Hamburg, it  is because adult leaming today has become a central concem in a11 nations. During recent decades, adult  education and basic éducation, forma1 as well as non-formai, have undergone substantial changes and  experienced enormous growth in scope and scale. TO leam throughout one’s life has become a necessity for every  woman and man. ‘The challenges of the twenty-fïrst century cannot be met by govemments, organizations or  institutions alone; the energy, imagination and genius of people and their Iùll, free and vigorous participation in  every aspect of life are also needed.’ This is why adult and continuing education have become an imperative in  the commun@ and the workplace.
17.3 The Hamburg Declaration is providing a new vision of adult leaming. A vision primarily focused on  women’s and men’s leaming aspirations and demands, on expression of people’s wants and hopes. A vision  radically insisting on gender equity and sensitivity. A vision of partnership between the state and civil societies.  A vision insisting on active labour, social health, population and enviromnental policies. A vision showing how  adult leaming fuels creativity, imagination and active citizenship. SO it is at the same time a vision of how human  beings cari develop their own future, how they work for citizenship, for democracy, for culture, and for  improving their living conditions by their own work. This enlarged vision, which follows on from the broad  perspective already given in the report of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-fïrst  Century, presided over by Mr Jacques Delors, Will contribute to reinforce the leadership role UNESCO has been  playing for decades, at the world level, in the domain of adult education and lifelong leaming, employment and  active citizenship.
17.4 Yet, too often, opportunities to leam remain confïned to a few. Those who have got more tend to get  even more, and the socially excluded tend also to be excluded from the leaming society, from the reality of  lifelong leaming. Because of these inequalities, the delegates insisted on the importance of promoting the right to  leam. Two key recommendations have been adopted. The tïrst one is the development of a United Nations Week  of Adult Leaming, as a yearly focus for govemments, NGOs, media and providers to join in promoting adult  leaming, showing examples that it is possible for each and every woman and man, at a11 ages, to leam. Let me  add that it Will start next year, for the whole week starting 13 May, and 1 am personally convinced this idea  promoted by the United Nations Will spread a11 over the world. There was a broad consensus to follow this idea  and to implement it, and it is worth while doing SO in a forma1 and in a non-forma1 way. The second  recommendation asked for ‘one hour a day’ for ah. Of course this is for the moment only a slogan, a motto, but it  expresses clearly the aspiration of adults to have the space and means to join leaming activities. It Will be for a11  the associations and movements around the world to promote the idea, explore ways of implementing it in  different contexts and gaining the support of govemments and social partners. We discussed this for a long time  in Hamburg but, believe me, there was also broad consensus to bring in this idea in order to show how necessary  it is to establish an hour of leaming. But the fact that the Conference recognized this demand has given  legitimacy to this aspiration - it is very Sign&ant. 1 do hope sincerely that UNESCO Will pay attention to these  two recommendations in its plan of action for the follow-up of the Conference.
17.5 One of the most critical outcomes of the Hamburg Conference was the advancement ofwomen’s  leaming opportunities worldwide, side by side with calls for gender sensitivity and genderjustice. On this  occasion, let me express how good it felt to experience the way in which participants showed solidarity. It was  not an international conference characterized only by the ideas and the needs of the industrialized and highly-  industrialized countries, there was a broad consensus. We have different contexts, different needs, but we have a  worldwide need for adult education and lifelong education. It was very important that a lot of women made  gender amendments, which they officially introduced into a11 themes of the document or in the workshops. The  Declaration has strongly stated that any attempts to restrict women’s right to literacy and training should be  considered unacceptable and measures should be taken to remedy them.
17.6 We listened and leamed from Prime Minister Sheik Hasina of Bangladesh when she shared her  country’s experience in the implementation of adult literacy programmes where at least 50 per cent of these
84    initiatives are female literacy centres. One of the lessons is that empowerment of women cari be facilitated  through greater participation of women leamers in literacy activities; and it was especially women who stressed  the importance of education and work, education and environment, education and culture. SO, the Declaration is  not only talking about access but also about the content of what women and men leam. It was evident that while  forma], non-forma] education and training opporhmities have contributed to the emancipation of women, it has  also been observed that some of these initiatives in fact serve to reproduce and reinforce gender inequalities and  stereotyped gender roles. It is also important within globalization and structural adjustment policies that we do  not ignore information and networks, new technologies and mass media. It is very important for the poorer  countries to have fi-ee access. SO, fïnancing of adult education and lifelong leaming play a considerable role,  because in order to avoid discrimination and selectivity, we need, especially for the poorest, free access to  lifelong education.
17.7 The. German authorities are pleased to have supported this successfùl Conference which took place in  the Hanseatic City of Hamburg, where it also supports the UNESCO Institute for Education which played a  leadership role in the preparation and the organization of the event. But the impact of the Conference Will reside  in its follow-up. We hope that the Member States, together with all the social partners and the NGOs, Will take  the necessary steps to implement the plan of action, and that UNESCO Will be a catalyst in monitoring the  follow-up, reminding all of us of the commitments we have made, facilitating communication and co-operation,  and providing a forum, a consultation mechanism to that end. 1 Will finish by congratulating UNESCO for the  Hamburg Conference, and let us hope that by this genuinely worldwide initiative, we cari advance education,  human rights and better living conditions. Thank you.
18. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole au Directeur général.
19.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have seen from the brilliant contribution by the speaker of the  German Parliament the importance of the International Conference on Adult Education held in Hamburg. We  were convinced that this would be a tuming point in adult education, which is much more than literacy. 1 must tel1  you that to a great extent the success of Hamburg has a name and it is that of its Chairperson, Rita Süssmuth. As  she said, we were united; fïrst, because at some of the very important international meetings since Jomtien in
1990, ranks were divided, with the United Nations and the governments on one side and the non-govemmental  organizations on the other. That was an unsatisfactory situation and we thought to remedy it by being united  again - even in the face of difficulties - and we succeeded, owing, 1 repeat, to the constant presence of the  Chairperson. Secondly, that Conference was a meeting of innovation. There had been a great deal of routine, a  great many old-fashioned approaches; but because of Hamburg we now have a plan of action based on  innovation, on imagination and, first and foremost, on our presence in the countries that are the benefïciaries of  that plan of action. This is the fïrst step towards discovering how these women and men live their daily lives and  the reason why we cari now attempt to upgrade their skills and enhance their living conditions, and strive to be  more efficient in OUT adult education efforts. Accordingly, we now have a new vision and a new approach. And,  last but by no means least, a11 the meetings, all the proposed resolutions depend on their follow-up. The  conclusions may be brilliant, but if we do not put them into action they would still be very important, the  recommendations would still be very relevant, but there would be nothing afierwards. 1 am sure that the Hamburg  Institute has demonstrated that a11 of UNESCO, the entire Education Sector - but with contributions fiom other  sectors - has done exceedingly well, and 1 am certain now that this Institute in Hamburg cari ensure, fïrst of ail,  that follow-up Will be given to that meeting.
19.2 Madam, please allow me to present you off~cially with this brochure on the Hamburg Declaration,  ‘Agenda for the Future’. You have said that to a large extent our common future depends on implementation, on  education for all throughout life and 1 am very happy, since you have contributed SO much, to present you with  this brochure together with the document on the Hamburg meeting submitted to the General Conference.
19.3 Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Avicenna is the symbol of teachers and 1 am happy to  announce that the United Nations Educational, Scientifïc and Cultural Organization hereby attests that the  UNESCO Avicenna Gold Medal has been awarded to Rita Süssmuth, President of the German Parliament, in  recognition of the services rendered by her to the international commun@ as Chairperson of the fïfth  International Conference on Adult Education, held in Hamburg, Gennany, from 14 to 18 July 1997.
19.4 Madam, 1 present you with the gold medal which bears the following quotation from Avicenna, ‘For the  survival of human beings we must a11 act together’. Thank you.
85    (The Director-General presents the Avicenna Medal to MS Rita Süssmuth,  Speaker of the German Parliament)  (Applause)
20. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie le Directeur général et donne la parole à M. Michéal Martin, ministre de l’éducation et des  sciences de l’Irlande.
21.1 Mr MARTIN (Ireland):  Mr President, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, may 1 first of a11 congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to the Chair of the 29th session of  the General Conference of UNESCO. We look to your skills and experience to bring our deliberations to a  successful conclusion. 1 also wish to express my delegation’s compliments to the Director-General, Federico  Mayor, for his leadership in what has been a diftïcult and challenging period.
21.2 1 would like to extend a special word of thanks and praise to all responsible for the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1998-1999. The concentration and clear presentation of the programme priorities are very  welcome, as is the manner in which the expenditure for these years is outlined.
21.3 As we approach the end of the millennium, many of the problems which faced the Organization at its  inception still confront us. The ideals on which UNESCO was founded, most importantly respect for the rights of  men and women, and the use of advances in knowledge to foster human development rather than to create lùrther  distinctions between people, are as relevant today as they ever were. May 1 also at this opportunity welcome back  to UNESCO our close neighbours and friends, the Govemment of the United Kingdom. We look forward to  working closely together in advancing education worldwide.
21.4 Education is of course a means by which barriers are broken and gaps are bridged. Education has a  tùndamental role to play in persona1 and social development. In this context, 1 am pleased to note that a major  part of UNESCO’s strategy for education concems the promotion of education as a basic requirement for all.  This Will take the form of community education in those least developed areas, the expansion of primat-y  education systems including distance education, basic literacy and adult education. In Ireland, in line with the  speaker of the German Parliament, we too see the enormous importance of adult education and adult literacy and  we Will be addressing these issues in a forthcoming Green Paper discussion document on adult education.
21.5 The programme also calls for an examination of the role and lùnction of higher education and in this  respect 1 welcome the forthcoming World Conference on Higher Education which Will take place next year, at  which issues such as inter-univers@ co-operation and academic mobility Will be addressed. One of the most  important educational advances in recent years has been the promotion of lifelong leaming. This concept reflects  the fact that in today’s information society, the world is entering a period of widespread change. The pace and  scope of change means that steps to update and renew knowledge and skills are more important than ever before.  The report of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-first Century recognizes the  contribution education makes towards economic and social development, particularly where a flexible education  system allows greater curricular diversity and the building of bridges between different types of education, or  between working life and further training. The European. Commission, through the work of Commissioner  Cresson, has made an important contribution in this area.
21.6 The development of the education and skills base of the economy is as important a source of wealth as  the accumulation of more traditional forms of capital. The output of education and training systems, in terms of  both quantity and quality of skills at a11 levels, is a prime determinant of a country’s level of industrial  productivity and competitiveness. Ensuring that a country meets the skills demands of industry is an important  issue and 1 am committed to ensuring that the education system in Ireland is to the fore in meeting the skills needs  of our rapidly expanding economy. 1 intend to continue to promote the co-operation that has been developing  between third-level institutions and indus@. Our objective is to support and promote close interaction and  continuous communication between education providers and industry and to deepen mutual understanding and  facilitate timely reaction to emerging needs.
21.7 In recent months, the govemment has undertaken a range of initiatives in this area. We have put in place  a close partnership between my Department and industry and have initiated a range of innovative programmes to  ensure that we have enough trained people to meet demand in areas of rapidly expanding employment  opportunities. For a11 this, 1 am mindful of the need to work and support work in the tïelds of the humanities and
86    social sciences and we have recently announced a major study into the establishment of a new Research Council  in these areas.
21.8 Early education has a vital role to play in the development of the Child and in breaking down the barriers  to leaming at an early age to ensure success in later life. Neglect of early-childhood education reinforces  disadvantage, as too often the less well-off children start off in school one step behind those more fortunate.
21.9 Radical intervention is also required to tackle the problems of the thousands of Young people who drop  out of school early each year with little or no qualifications. The lrish Govemment is committed to addressing the  issue of early school leaving in a comprehensive manner and we wish to leam from the experiences ofother  Member States in this regard. We accept a need to provide a more coherent response to schools to enable them in  tum to provide a more coherent response to the needs of Young people for whom the existing curriculum options  are unsuitable. We are introducing, for example, a new range of measures for 8-l 5 year-olds who are at risk of  dropping out of school early. These measures Will involve a strategic partnership between the schools, the  community which they serve and voluntary groups, including youth organizations in particular.
2 1.10 Education worldwide is undergoing a process of profound change. There is an increasing emphasis  being placed on the use of information and communication technologies. However, in considering this we must  never forget the pivota1 role of the teacher in the leaming environment. We must also ensure that a new divide  does not arise as a by-product of the ‘information society’ where access to such technology is the preserve of the  few. My govemment is determined to ensure that students in disadvantaged areas Will benefit fully from a11  initiatives in the technology area. We Will shortly be publishing a major policy framework document on ICTs in  education, reflecting our govermnent’s commitment to achieving computer literacy for a11 students throughout the  school system. This document Will set forth the details of a national programme of action to be implemented  between now and the end of 2001. At the time of publication of the document, 1 Will simultaneously be  announcing a very substantial govemment investment to underpin the implementation of the programme and this  investment Will target action on classroom resources and equipment infrastructure, teacher skills development  and support, and policy development and research.
2 1.11 As you are aware, one of the principal concems of the lrish Govemment in recent years has been the  search for peace in our own island. Since we last met in our General Conference, we have, in close co-operation  with the British Govemment, continued the work of trying to bring the political parties and communities in  Northem Ireland together in negotiations on a comprehensive political settlement of the Northem lreland  conflict. Despite some well-publicized setbacks to our efforts, notably the breakdown of the fïrst IRA ceasefïre,  we have not wavered in our joint determination to seek a just and lasting peace.
2 1.12 In recent months, 1 am pleased to report that our efforts have shown more positive dividends. In July, the  IRA restored its ceasefïre and last month we were able to launch in Belfast substantive all-party negotiations. For  the fïrst time ever, the representatives of a11 the main political parties in Northem lreland, plus the two  govemments, have gathered together at the same table, in an atmosphere of peace, to discuss future political  arrangements. These discussions, launched on 24 September, offer our best chance for peace on the island of  lreland.
2 1.13 Negotiations are based on three strands of discussions, which reflect the relationships within Northem  lreland, within the island of Ireland, and between lreland and the United Kingdom. Our aim is to consolidate the  peace by tackling, in these inclusive negotiations, the tùndamental issues that have divided the two communities  in Northem lreland. Any settlement should include new arrangements on the island of lreland involving genuine  parity of esteem, equality of treatment and recognition of the identity of both traditions. We would hope to reach  agreement on these new arrangements by next May SO that they cari be put to the people of lreland in referenda,  North and South, for their approval.
2 1.14 Nor do we underestimate the difficulties ahead. In a community which has been at war within itself for  SO long there is great suspicion and hostility to be dealt with. Trust and confidence must slowly be established  before the two sides Will begin to reach towards each other and make the compromise and accommodation which  lead to lasting peace and there must be acceptance that two political and cultural traditions cari live side by side  without seeking to dominate, one over the other. Obviously, the education system Will play a critical role in  ensuring that that happens. 1 know that you wish us well in our task and for our part, we are greatly helped and  encouraged by the continuing support we have received from the international community.
21.15 The question of the protection of the global environment is one which is of concem to us all.  International co-operation on the environment is at an all-time high, fuelled by increasing concems about global
87    problems and the transboundary dimension of many environmental problems. Such co-operation is an integral  part of Irish foreign policy, as evidenced by our support for the strengthening of the Treaty of the European  Union to make sustamable development an explicit EU objective.
2 1.16 Finally, 1 would like to endorse the role of UNESCO in promoting greater awareness of the physical  cultural heritage, and in that context, 1 am pleased to note the addition of the Early Christian monastic settlement  of the island of Skellig Michael off the south-west toast of Ireland to the World Heritage List last year.
21.17 Mr President, Ireland has historically placed a very high value on the education of its people. Our  membership of UNESCO is evidence of our ongoing commitment to share our insights with the other nations of  the world and, very importantly, to leam from the experiences of other nations. 1 wish the Conference success  and 1 am confident that the deliberations Will advance the education and development of people in the  participating Member States. Thank you very much indeed.
22. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je dorme maintenant la parole à M. Alisher Azizkhojaev, vice-premier ministre de  l’Ouzbékistan.
23.1 r-H A3H3XO,&KAEB (Y36eKuCTaH):  rOCIIOAuH npeACeAaTenb ~eHep~bHOiiKOH~epeH~uu,yBa~aeMbIey~aCTHAKuKOH~epeH~uu,AaMbI A  rocnoAa, IJIeCTb C He60nbmuM neT IIpOILIJIO C TOT0 MOMeHTa, KOrAa Pecny6nuKaY36eKuCTaHo6penaCBO~  He3aBuCUMOCTb. Ho ~TOB~~MR~~H~~~~OA~~BH~~O~MO~OAO~O~OC~A~~CTB~COOTHOCUMOCA~C~TU~~T~M~.  OHo BM~CTEZTIOB~~~~~CTO~~KO~~~~~T~~U~O~CT~H~~~OX~~H~IXRB~~HU~,~TOITO~O~OH~~~~~~~~~B~BO~~  AUHaMuKCHaILl6ypnbrfi BCK.
23.2 BOCCTaHOBneHa UCTOpJFleCKax CIIpaBeAJlUBOCTb, Pecny6nuKa u36pana CBOji IIyTb nOnuTUqeCKOr0U  COI.WUIbHO-3KOHOMWleCKOrO pa?BuTUfI,AOCTUrHJ'TbICTa6UJIbHOCTbuMe?KHaJ&iOHBJIbHOe COrnaCUeBo6~ecTBe.  K 3TOMy HeO6XOAuhfO AO6aBUTb BOJpOHcAeHUe AyXOBHbIX IJCHHOCTe#, KynbTypbI, o6bIsaeB,Ha~UOHanbHOrO  II3bIKa. Ha l-IpuHI&UIIaX CyBepeHUTeTa MeHlleTCII MeHTaJIUTCT MHOrOMUnnUOHHOrO HapOAa, IIOBbIUIaeTCII er0  CaMOC03HaHue.
23.3 u 3AeCb HeB03MOHCHO IIepeOIJeHUTb IIJIOAOTBOpHOe COTpyAHUYeCTBO HaUIefi CTpaHbI C TaKOii  aBTOpuTeTHeüLUeü MeiKAyHapOAHOfi OpraHU3aqUe& KaK DHECKO. C IlCpBbIXIUarOB He3aBuCUMOCTuMelKIcAy  y36eKuCTaHOM U K)HECKO H~aAUnuCbHenpocToAo6pbIe,napTHepcKueCB~3U,cKopee-AOCTUr~TnOnHbIji  l'IapUTeT B peUleHUU 6onbmoro KOMILi-IeKCa 3aAas. BeAb OAHUM 113 OCHOBHbIXHaIIpaBneHUiiBAe~TClIbHOCTU  K)HECKO IIBJIReTCII IIpeAOTBpaIQi?Hue 3THIFIeCKUX u penUrUO3HbIX KOH@IUKTOB, yrpOxaIOLI&UX AeJIyMupa,
6opb6a C OTCTaJIOCTbK) u Aer’panauueti OomecTBa, COWaJIbHOii U A~XOBHO~~ yWep6HOCTbIO. MbI CquTaeM  IOHECKO YHUKaJIbHbIM MeH(AyHapOAHbIM UHCTUTyTOM, KOTOpOMy HeT U He MOX(eT 6bITb aJIbTepHaTUBb1,  B03BbIJ.LlaK)IIJUM o6urerenoBesecIcyfo AyXOBHOCTb, AeJIaKN@ïM MUJlJIUapAbI JUOAeti IIJlaHeTbI 3eMJIa no6pee,  MUJIOCepAHee, IJXiMOTHeC. &IarOAapR HâIIIUM COBMCCTHbIM IlpOCKTaM, Mllp BHOBb OTKPbIJl &lIff ce6rrHaurw  BenUKUX IIpeAKOB, TaKUX, KaK x&Ib-EepyHU, Anb-XOpeJMu, MMaM ~CM~UJI&I'I+'X~~U,AMU~ TeMyp,Mup30  YJryr6eK,AnuurepHaaoU,Iio6yp.  Ha3BaHHOüUMeHeMHaUlerOBenUKOrOnpeAKaA6yknu H6H CUHbI(ABUIJeHHa).
3aI'IaA, K)rU~CBep.~36eKUCTaH,KaKU3BeCTHOBOBCeMMUpe,6bInCepA~eBuHOü3TOüAOpOru3~OXUHapOAOB.  u KaK PasbUE, TOIIbKO Ha KFICCTBCHHO HOBOM YpOBHe, HbIHC eMy OTBeAeHa POJIb BaXH&hIWO 3BeHaHa  MHOrOTbICR=IeKUJIOMeTpOBOM rIyTU.flOi-WIHbIM npOAOn~eHueM,TO~Hee-pa3BUTUeM3TOrO,CT~aAe~TenbHOCTb  h'kmnyHapOAHOr0 UHCTUTyTâ ~eHTpEUIbHOEWGiTCKrn< UCCJICnOBaHUü B CaMapKi-iHAe, OTKPbITOTO C IIOMOLUbKI  ~HECKO,IIOJI~W~BIII~>~ ~upOKyIoU3BeCTHOCTb,3aBOeBaB~aSIBbICOKUÜaBTOpUTeTBHa~HbIXKpyraX.
23.6 R nO3BOn~ce6enU~bKOpOTKOnepe~UCnUTbTenpOeKTbl,KOTOpbIe6b1nu ptXJIU30BaHbI~36eKUCTaHOM  U DHECKO TOnbKO B HbIHeIIIHeM rOAy. 3TO - IIpOBeAeHUe B~apu~eHeAenu,IIOCB5I~eHHOü2500-neTUIO  EyXapbI UXUBbI,aTaK~eTOp?KeCTBaB3TUXApeBHUX~eMYy~UHaX BOCToKa,3aBepIIIUBuIUeCa HeCKOnbKOAHCü  HX=A, opraeu3awix B CaMapKaHAe MemAyHapoAHoro 4eCTuBaJI>l "ILIapK TapoHanapu" GOA naTpoHaxeM  DHECKO, pSIACUMII03UyMOB UKOH~epeH4uÜ,~OCBRUIeHHbIXHa~HOMyUKynb~pHOMyHaCneAYno,pa3BUT~  Q'MaHUCTWleCKUX UAeü, BO3pO~ACHlm,AyxOBHOCTU.~TpaAHblMIIBnRCTCIITO,YTOB~epeAUyHaCMHOrOHOBbIX  COBMeCTHbIX~pOeKTOB,KOTOpbIe,HeCOMHCHHO,O6OraTRTBCC~enOBCYeCTBO.
23.7 AaMbI A rOClIOAa, KaK BbI XOpOIUO 3HaeTC, Y36eKUCTaH paCIIOnO~eHBperuOHe,KOTOpbIüHepCAKO  UMeHyIoT “30HOü IIOBbILIICHHOfi KOH@IUKTHOCTUv. B IIepByIo OsepeAb, u3-3a HenpeKpauwouleiica
6paToy6uikTBeHHoü BOÜHM B A@raHuCTaHe. Harrra clpaea BbIcTynaeT 3a HeMeaneHHyIo cTa6unmaumo  nono)KeHWI B peruoHeUuBUJIu3oBaHHbIM UMUpHb1MIlyTeM.B 3TOMpR~oco6oeMeCT03aHu~aeTUHU~UaTuBa  npe3WleHTa Pecny6nuKu Y36eKUCTaH kiCnaMa KapUMOBa 0 npeBpaueHuu QeHTpaJIbHoü A3uu B 3o~y,  CBo6oAHYIO OT WlepHoro OpyWiJI. HenaBHo IIpOUIeRUla~Me~KnyHapO~Ha~KOH~epeH~~zrr~î~~~yBonpocyB  TaLIIKeHTe IIOJIJYUnaIIIUpOKUüpe30HaHCBMupe.
23.8 CnoKoficTBue, yBepeHHoCTb B 3aBTpBIlIHeM nHe, BOJMOX(HOCTb npkio6qaTbcrr K COKpOBUIl(HUuaM
06JWIenOBe~eCKUX 3HaHuü - BOT Te U~eaJIbI,KOTOpbIeHanpaKTUKepeanu3yroTcrrB Pecrry6nuKe. HbIHeUIHUii  roLt no yKa3y kknaMa KapuMoBa 0655IBneH B Pecny6nuKe ~~O~OMUHTepeCOB~enoBeKa".~3TOHe~pocTaR  AeKnapaTUBHOCTb.
23.9 Mbl IIonHoCTbIO p=AenReM MHeHUe MHOrOyBaH(aeMOr0 HaMU reHepanbHOr0 ,QUpeKTOpa~HECKO  rocnonuaa @enepuKo Maiiopa 0 TOM, ~TO nocTpoeaue neMoKpaTusecKor0 06ulecTBa qenuKoM3aBUCUTOT  CTeneHu 06pa30BaHHoCTU MOnollorO IIOKOneHUII. Y HZZ-CTOIlpOUeHTHaRTpaMOTHOCTb,aOTHbIHerpam~aHaM  Pecny6nuKu rapaHTupOBaH0 ,QeB~TuneTuee 6ecnnaTHoe 06R3aTenbHOe 06uee 06pa3oBaHue, nocne ero  nonyqeeurr - TpexneTHee cpeneee cne4uanbuoe o6pa30BaHue~aKaneMu~ecKuxnuuerrxu IIpO+eCCUOHa.JIbHbIX  KonneLvKax. PaCxOnbI Ha Bce BUAbI 06pa3oBaHm Monoaoe rocynapcrso 6epeT Ha ce6q 9~0 3aKpenneHo  neüCTByIOIUUM 3aKOHOAaTenbCTBOM U peaJIU3yeTCSI HaOCHOBe pa3pa60TaHHOÜHa~UOH~bHOfi IIpOIJ3aMMbI no  IIOLIrOTOBKe KaApOB. HaCKOnbKO 3T0 BaH(HO mrl HaC, rOBOpUT TOT +aKT, ZITO OKOnO 60% uacenemm  Y36eKUCTaHa -. MOnODbIe JIIOnU, He llOCTurUIUe CoBepIIIeHHOneTUR. &MaIO, VT0 HaKOnneHHbIü B 3TOM  HaI'IpaBneHUuBPec~6JluKeOIIblTOKa~eTC~IIOne3HbIM HeTOnbKO mRKaKoi%-Ni60 OTnenbHOBJIITOüCTpaHbI,HO  TaKxe U ans3 DHECKO. BenboHauMeeTyHuKanb~BO3MO~HOCTbHeTOnbKO rny6oKo u3yqaTb npo6neMb1,  aKKyMynUpOBaTb 3HaHuR U OIlbIT, Ho u u1upoK0 pacnpocTpawrTb ux c noMombro UeneBbIx nporpahw.  npUBe!JeHHbIü npkwep, Ha HaLII Bsrnxfl, nonuocTbI0 COOTHOCUTC~I c 0cHoBHbIkfu UAeRMU CTOnb  npenCTaBUTenbHOÜMem~HapOAHOÜOpraHU3aUUU,KaKOÜaBn~eTC~~HECKO.
23 .Ic rOCnOAUH npeACenaTenb, rOCIlOnUH ~eHep~bHbIü~UpeKTOp,yBa~aeMbIe~aCTHUKU~OH~epeH~HU,  nonbsyrrcb IIpencTaBneHHoü MHe B03MO~HOCTbI0, XOTen 661 BbICKa3aTb HeCKOnbKO coo6pa~eeufi 06  aKTUBu3aUUU U yJIyWIeHuu HaIIIeü COBMeCTHOfi pa60TbI. COXpaHUTb U OCTaBUTb rprrnyuUM nOKOneHWIM  HaCneAUe BenUKUXIIpeHKOB -6naropo~Ha~UOTB~TCTB~HH~MUCC~,Be~bTOnbKOAOCKOHâTIbHO3H~R IIpOUInOe,  MOH(HO yBepeHH0 YyBCTBOBaTb ce6a CerOAHII, CMenO UATU B Gynyrrree. B 6nuHcaüruue ABarOABCOCTOSITCR  HeCKOnbKO 3HaMeHaTenbHbIX cO6bITui? B UCTO~UUH~~O~OBL(~HT~~JI~HOÜ A3uu: I225-neTUeC0 AHIIpOHCLIeHU8  MMaMa an-Qxapu, cocrami’rem XanucoB, xu3HeonuCaHuR npoporta MyxaMena; 1200-neTue BenuKoro  yqeHoro-acTpoHoMa u MaTeMaTuKa AxMana anb-CbepraHu, qbu TpyDbl no reoMeTpuu u aCTpOHOMUU 6bInu  YHuKaJIbHbIM y'Ie6HbIM noco6ueM B YHUBepCuTeTaX Mupa B paHHee CpeAHeBeKOBbe; 1000-neTUeHapOnHOr0
3noca "AnnaMbId. 3Ta nwBa5i uc~opun HauIero Hapona,KoTopaB,nepenaBarlcb u3noKoneHkwB noKoneuue,  AowIa AO CeroAHBUIHux neeü. B 3Toü ~~51311 MbI npu3bIBaeM rocynapcrsa-WeHbI DHECKO noMep~aTb  HaLUenpe~o~eHueOBMIo~eHUU3T~CO6bITu~BO~UI1U~bHblüKKaneHAapb~aMnTHblXAaT.
23.11 K COmaJIeHIDO,a3TO l'IpUXQ~UTC~KOHCTaTupOBaTb,3TyCTOnb npeACTaBUTenbHyf0 TIW6yHy HeKOTOpbIe,  B 9aCTHOCTU B HaLIIeM JJeHTpaJIbHOa3uaTCKOM perUOHe, IIbITaIOTCII UCIIOnb30BaTb B UensIX, COBepILleHHO  HeCoBMeCTUMblX CU~~~aMU~~~~~~.AUMeHHO,BbICKa3bIBaIOTCII~O~enaHUSIO~pOB~AeHUU~p~AHOBaHUü  IIOA 3ruAOü K)HECKO Io6uneea ApeBHUX UMIIepUü, rpaHUI.@I KOTOpblX CerOAHII OXBaTbIBaIOTTeppuTOpUU  HeCKOnbKUX HOBbIX He3aBUCuMbIX rOCyAapCTB. nono6Hoe MOxeT He TOnbKO 06ocTpkiTb OTHOU.IeHURMe?KDJ  HapOAaMU U rOCyAapCTBaMu, HO U IIpuBeCTU KTeppUTOpU&llbHbIM IlpUTR3aHWIM,HaHeCTUyIUep6aBTOpuTeTy  cTonbIIpe~CTaBUTenbHOÜOpraHu3aI&iu,KaK IOHECKO. MbI He~on~HbI~OIIycTuTbTaKUXTeHAeHUuÜ.
23.12 BpeMR 6bICTpOTe=IHo! Y,, Cek'IaC MbI HaXOJWMCx Ha IIOpOreTpeTberOTbIWIeneTU%~OCe~HHbIeB
3eMnIO Aogpble, CUnbHbIe CeMeHaO6R3aTenbHO~aQ'TXOpOLUUüypO~aü.TaK UMbIAOJDKHbI CeRTbBCepAUaX A  Ayruax nmneü no6poe,cBeTnoe,wcToe.Y6e~KneH:HaruunoToMKu3~0 o~e~Tnonoc~oa~c~~y! Garonapmsa  BHuMaHue.
(23.1) Mr AZIZKHOJAEV (Uzbekistan) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished participants, ladies and gentlemen. It is only a  little over six years since the Republic of Uzbekistan gained its independence, yet for our ancient, and at the same  time youthful, state this period seems like decades. SO much has happened, SO many truly epoch-making events  have occurred that at times their pace has been faster than that of our tumultuous age.
(23.2) Historical justice has been restored and Uzbekistan has chosen its path towards political and socio-  economic development, while stability and inter-ethnie Concord have been achieved in society. There has  furthermore been a revival of spiritual values, culture, customs and the national language. On the basis of  sovereignty, the mentality of our multi-million population is changing and its level of self-awareness rising.
(23.3) In this connection, it is impossible to overestimate the importance of our country’s constructive  collaboration with such an authoritative international organization as UNESCO. Since its first steps on the path of  independence, ,Uzbekistan has not only developed a good working partnership with UNESCO but has achieved fi111  parity with it in the task of solving a wide range of problems. One of the basic thrusts of UNESCO’s action is to  avert ethnie and religious conflicts that pose a threat tb peace, and to combat backwardness and degeneration in  society as well as social and spiritual decline. We regard UNESCO as a unique international institution, to which  there is and cari be no alternative, one that is working to raise the spiritual values of humankind, to make billions of  people better, more compassionate and more literate. Thanks to our joint projects the world has rediscovered our  great forebears such as al-Biruni, al-Khwarezmi, Imam Ismail al-Bukhari, Amir Timur (Tamerlane), Mirza  Ulughbeg, Ali-Sher Nawai and Babur.
(23.4) We take pride today in the fact that MS Rita Süssmuth has been awarded the UNESCO Avicenna Gold  Medal, named afier our great ancestor, Abu Ali Ibn Sina (Avicenna).
(23.5) Thanks to UNESCO’s active involvement and organizational efforts, to the Great Silk Road, in its day a  unique bridge for the exchange of goods and ideas between East and West, North and South, lives again. It is  universally acknowledged that Uzbekistan was the crossroads of this route Iinking different ages and peoples; and  as in the past, but on a qualitatively new level, it now serves as an essential section of this road that stretches for  many thousands of kilometres. A logical extension or, more precisely, a logical development of this project has  been the work of the International Institute for Central Asian Studies in Samarkand, which was established with  UNESCO’s help, has become widely known and has gained a high reputation in scientitïc circles.
(23.6) 1 shall if 1 may refer only briefly to the projects that have been carried out by Uzbekistan and UNESCO in  the course of the current year. They consist of the ‘ Week’ held in Paris to mark the two thousandth lïve hundredth  anniversary of Bukhara and Khiva, and the celebrations held a few days ago in those two ancient ‘pearls of the  East’; the organization in Samarkand of a UNESCO-sponsored international festival, the ‘Sharq Taranalari’  (Melodies of the East); and a series of seminars and conferenees on the scientifïc and cultural heritage, the  development of humanistic ideas, and the revival of spiritual values. It is gratifying to note that many new joint  projects which Will undoubtedly bene0 humanity as a whole are foreseen for the future.
(23.7) Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, Uzbekistan is situated in a region frequently referred to as  being highly conflict-prone, primarily because of the never-ending fratricidal war in Afghanistan. Our country  advocates the rapid stabilization of the situation in the region by civilized and peaceful means. In this context, the  lead given by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov, to the conversion of Central Asia into a  nuclear-free zone deserves special mention. The international conference on this subject recently held in Tashkent  was widely reported throughout the world.
(23.8) Serenity, confidence in the future and opportunities for access to the treasure house of universal  knowledge, these are the ideals we are putting into practice in our country. By presidential decree, this year has  been proclaimed the ‘Year of the interests of humanity’ in Uzbekistan, and this is not mere rhetoric.
(23.9) We fully share the view of the distinguished Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Federico Mayor, that the  building of a democratic society depends entirely on the educational level of the younger generation. We have 100  per cent literacy, and as of now our citizens are guaranteed free, compulsory, nine-year general education, followed  by three-year secondaty special education provided in general secondary or vocational schools. As stipulated by  current legislation, our fledgling state meets the cost of a11 forms of education, in accordance with the national  programme that has been drawn up for the training of personnel. This is of great importance for us, since  approximately 60 per cent of the population of Uzbekistan are under majority age. 1 believe that the experience we  have gained in this tïeld could be beneficial not only for individual countries but for UNESCO itself, it having  unique possibilities for studying such problems in depth, accumulating knowledge and experience, and  disseminating them widely through programmes specially designed for the purpose. This example, as we see it, is  fully consonant with the fundamental ideas of a representative international organization such as UNESCO.
(23.10) Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished participants, 1 should like to take this opportunity to  express a few ideas on how to step up our joint efforts and improve them. TO preserve and pass on to future  generations the heritage of our great forebears is a noble and responsible mission. It is only through a thorough  knowledge of the past that we cari feel confident in ourselves in the present and boldly advance into the future. In  the course of the next two years we shall witness some outstanding events in the history of the peoples of Central  Asia: the one thousand two hundred and twenty-tïfth anniversary of the birth of Imam al-Bukhari, compiler of the  m, the sayings and the deeds of the Prophet Muhammad; the one thousand two hundredth anniversary of the  great astronomer and mathematician Ahmad al-Farghani, whose works on geometry and astronomy were uniquely  valuable study aids in the universities of the world in the early Middle Ages; and the one thousandth anniversary of  the folk epic ‘Alpamysh’, the living history of our people, which has been handed down from generation to  generation to the present day. In this connection we cal1 on Member States of UNESCO to support our proposa1 to  include these events in the officia1 list of anniversaries to be celebrated by the Organization.
(23.11) Unfortunately - and this has to be pointed out - some Member States, including some in our Central Asia  region, are attempting to use this widely representative forum for purposes that are entirely incompatible with
4  UNESCO’s ideals. Specifïcally, proposals are being put forward to celebrate under UNESCO’s auspices  anniversaries of ancient empires whose frontiers included territories that today are those of newly independent  states. This cannot only exacerbate relations between peoples and states, but cari lead to territorial claims and cari  damage the authority of a representative organization like UNESCO. We should not allow these tendencies to  develop.
(23.12) Time flies! We are already on the threshold of the third millennium. When good, vigorous seed is sown, it  always produces a good harvest, and we too must sow good, sound, pure seed in people’s hearts and min&. 1 feel  sure that our descendants Will judge us in these matters according to out merits! Thank you for your attention,
24. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Ignatius Chombo, ministre de  l’enseignement supérieur et de la technologie du Zimbabwe.
25.1 Mr CHOMBO (Zimbabwe):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Honourable Ministers,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation, Sir, 1 would like to  congratulate you- on your election as the President of the 29th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. 1  wish to assure you of the full support of my delegation and that of my President, His Excellency Dr Robert  Gabriel Mugabe, Chairperson of the World Solar Commission, who wishes this Conference every success. This  Conference is being held two years after the celebration of UNESCO’s fïftieth anniversary and just about two  years from the next millennium. This provides our Organization with an opportunity to reflect and act on the  challenges and opportunities of the twenty-first Century.
25.2 Mr President, it is also a happy occasion on which we warmly welcome the retum of the United  Kingdom to UNESCO. It is proper that the United Kingdom, one of the founding fathers of UNESCO and  custodian of the UNESCO Constitution, is now back in the fold. As we welcome the United Kingdom, my  delegation appeals once again to those Member States which have not yet rejoined UNESCO to do SO, SO that  together we cari confront the problems that threaten our survival.
25.3 It is within this context that my delegation has been reflecting on the vexing problem of the budget  ceiling for the next biennium. It is clear that the budget ceiling of $544 million recommended fïrst by the 150th  session of the Executive Board in October 1996 and then by the 151st session in June 1997 did not take into  account the United Kingdom contribution because that country had not yet rejoined UNESCO nor was its  assessed amount known. We understand that this budget ceiling represents a compromise figure since the  developing countries wanted a higher budget ceiling that took into account their developmental needs based on  simple logic. My delegation is persuaded to support the revised budget estimate of $585 million for 1998-l 999,  as proposed by the Director-General, taking the United Kingdom’s contribution as additional fimds.
25.4 Mr President, we are a11 aware of the fact that UNESCO is experiencing serious cash-flow problems  emanating from arrears in membership contributions. This constraint impedes its capacity to implement approved  programmes. My govemment fully supports decision 6.3 adopted by the Executive Board at its 150th session  urging Member States to tiltïl their constitutional obligation SO that the Organization cari have resources to  implement programmes and activities approved by this Conference.
25.5 Zimbabwe notes the steady progress of the reform process initiated. The process of decentralization of  staff and resources to fïeld offices is a welcome development and my government would particularly like to  commend the Director-General for the decision to decentralize the programme ‘Strengthening national education  statistical information systems in sub-Saharan Afiica’ (NESIS) to the UNESCO Harare Office. This decision Will  promote co-operation between the contributing development agencies and the Afiican National Statistical  Services, as well as the participation of African specialists. It is the feeling of my delegation that field offices  should be properly equipped and strengthened to enable them to discharge their responsibilities to the full. In the  face of resource constraints, it is essential to establish guiding principles on decentralization of fïeld offices that  represent UNESCO’s presence in Member States. Mr President, it is for this reason that my delegation is CO-  sponsoring the draft resolution on improving the implementation of decentralization submitted for consideration  by this Conference.
25.6 Mr President, on personnel issues, my delegation is concemed about the inequitable geographical  distribution of staff and feels that urgent action should be taken on this matter. Statistics reveal that 40 Member  States are below range and that 41 are unrepresented. This state of affairs is unhealthy for our Organization.
25.7 My delegation is in favour of a more efficient and effective staffing structure in the Secretariat;  downgrading of as many vacant posts as possible and the intensification of the drive to recruit competent Young  staff. Efforts should also be made to maximize the use of local consultants in Member States and to deploy staff  in favour of priority areas at Headquarters and in the tïeld offices. A deliberate but systematic recruitment  campaign should be undertaken in favour of unrepresented and under-represented countries. The Young  Professionals Programme should be aggressively used to rejuvenate the Secretariat. Zimbabwe applauds the  Director-General’s efforts in promoting more equitable gender representation.
25.8 On the issue of the reform process, my delegation tùlly supports the recommendations of the ad hoc  working group mandated by the General Conference at its 28th session to advance proposals to restore to the  General Conference its original function as a fùlly-fledged policy-making body. The adoption of these  recommendations would help to Streamline and improve the working methods of the General Conference. In this  regard, my delegation endorses the recommendation of the Executive Board to create a special account for the  amount to be contributed by the United Kingdom for the period from 1 July 1997 to 3 1 December 1997 for the  purposes of fïnancing priority programmes in favour of developing countries. If the use of this contribution is  coupled with efficient programme delivery and prudent financial management, the provision of UNESCO’s  services in priority areas cari benefit from the gains.
25.9 Mr President, the requirement for this General Conference to take decisions on organizational structures,  ethical issues, and standards enforcement measures serves to show that our Organization is alive and has the Will  to reform. My delegation supports the draft decision of the Executive Board recommending the establishment of  a UNESCO Institute of Statistics with high professional standards and broad functional autonomy, along the lines  of the International Institute for Educational Planning. Such an institute would enable UNESCO to improve the  quality of its statistical services and products for the benefït of researchers and decision-makers.
25.10 Zimbabwe is embarking on an education reform programme designed to usher in an education system  that seeks to develop a scientifïc culture and the relevant entrepreneurship necessary for the economic and social  development of women and men in our country. In higher education, technical assistance for the  conceptualization and implementation of the higher education reform process is of great importance, as is the  training in the management of higher education institutions.
25.11 UNESCO Chairs continue to be important as they provide for the sharing and transfer of knowledge.  Zimbabwe considers the leadership role of UNESCO Chairs in the exploitation of information technology and for  links with the productive sector to be particularly signifïcant. The training of women in higher education,  including training in management and in science and technology, is a practical way of addressing the critical  issues of gender equity and ml1 human resource development.
25.12 Mr President, the central role of information and communication in the development process is tülly  recognized by Zimbabwe. We are supportive of the function which promotes freedom of expression and freedom  of the press. International Press Freedom Day is now regularly celebrated by the community of joumalists in  Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe commends the efforts by UNESCO to create information networks and to promote reform  in the media. Zimbabwe is supportive of efforts to curtail violence and pomography on the screen especially as  they affect children. Zimbabwe also welcomes programmes and action to tûrther develop women media  practitioners. In the area of the development of information and communication technologies, Zimbabwe  commends the work done by UNESCO in assisting developing countries and countries in transition to meet the  challenge of the information highways. In this regard, Zimbabwe, through draft resolution 118, invites this  Conference to make more resources available for the development of informatics and telematics application.
25.13 Mr President, Zimbabwe considers cultural programmes to be of crucial importance for the preservation  and enhancement of cultural and natural heritage through community participation and training of specialists in  the relevant areas. Preservation of sites and monuments and the transmission of traditional knowledge to the  Young as well as the promotion of cultural industries, such as the book industry, and creativity should be  emphasized. There should be continuing debate and reflection on the seminal issues that were raised by Our  Creative Divers@ the report of the World Commission on Culture and Development, which continues to inspire  us in our efforts to integrate the cultural dimension into development.
25.14 Zimbabwe is also very active in the area of world heritage preservation and promotion of monuments  and sites and through the promotion of relevant curricula in schools. A national heritage education committee has  been set up to promote heritage education in schools and the community. Mr President, this Conference is well  aware of the fact that Africa and the major@ of the developing countries are under-represented on the World  Heritage List, and my delegation supports the proposa1 to make the World Heritage List comprehensive. This is
4  one of the reasons that Zimbabwe has submitted its candidature for election to the World Heritage Committee  and, if elected, Will strive towards the enhancement of this task.
25.15 Mr President, Zimbabwe had the honour to host the UNESCO-sponsored Pan African Intergovemmental  Conference on Language Policies in At?ica this year. As a follow-up to this Conference, my govemment has  submitted draft resolution 117, requesting UNESCO to assist Member States to concretize the vision of Atiica  and the strategy of the Harare Declaration and to implement the Plan of Action adopted at that Conference. 1 am  confident that this Conference Will adopt this draft resolution which serves to underscore the irreplaceable role  played by African languages in the global development of Africa.
25.16 In the field of science and technology, Zimbabwe would like to underscore the importance it attaches to  the World Solar Programme 1996-2005, a major UNESCO-led initiative aimed at promoting the use of  renewable energy sources for sustainable development which is necessary for the creation of a culture of peace.  The World Solar Summit, held in Harare on 16 and 17 September 1996, mandated the World Solar Commission  composed of 18 Heads of State and Govemment, chaired by His Excellency Mr R.G. Mugabe, President of the  Republic of Zimbabwe, to develop the World Solar Programme within a period of nine months alter the Summit.
1 am delighted to inform this assembly that this programme was approved in June 1997 by the World Solar  Commission at its second session, held in New York on the occasion of the ‘Rio + 5’ special session of the  United Nations General Assembly. My country, on behalf of members of the World Solar Commission, invites  the Director-General through draft resolution 116 to upgrade the status of the World Solar Programme 1996-
2005 to an interdisciplinary programme similar to ‘Education for a sustainable future’ and ‘Towards a Culture of  peace’ presented in document 29 C/5. This draft resolution also requests the Director-General to provide funds  under the regular budget, with each major programme area contributing a portion and through mobilization of  extrabudgetary resources, to guarantee its efficient implementation. The successful implementation of the World  Solar Programme requires both human and financial resources. My delegation is therefore counting on your  support for the adoption of draft resolution 116 in the deliberations of Commission II.
25.17 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to end my statement by recognizing the  contributions of a11 the dedicated members of UNESCO to their con-mon resolve. It is through such dedicated  commitments that we cari ensure the realization of the lofty ideals of our Organization. Thank you.
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Vicente Sarubbi Zaldivar, ministre de  l’éducation et du culte du Paraguay.
(27.1) Mr SARUBBI ZALDIVAR (Paraguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates and observers,  ladies and gentlemen, good aftemoon to you all. 1 should like to refer briefly to some features ofthe current  situation and the challenges and opportunities at the end of this millennium, and at the same time to some of the  budgets and proposals of UNESCO in the run-up to the coming millennium. Bëfore a11 else, however, 1 should like,  on behalf of my country and the delegation of my country, to congratulate the President of the General Conference  on his election, as well as the United Kingdom on its return to the Organization.
(27.2) This end of the twentieth Century, of which we are the main actors, brings with it far-reaching social  changes and overwhelms us with events that are often contradictory. On the one hand, in the past two decades we  have witnessed events that are ripe with promise and reasons for optimism: the ending of the Cold War, the return
95    of freedom and democracy to many nations, including Paraguay, significant advances in peace agreements and  arrangements in areas of conflict, and the vigorous demand for the full implementation of human rights for ah the  inhabitants of the planet. Likewise, spectacular scientifïc and technological progress and the revolution in  information arid communication technologies are contributing with unsuspected benefits to individual, group and  collective well-being, and we are already seeing the emergence of a new society, a society of information and  knowledge.
(27.3) On the other hand, the international community is grappling with problems, some of them old and others  new, that are a source of serious concem to world leaders and of dismay to people at large, such as the persistence  of poverty, hunger, the emergence of new and constant threats to peace and international security, the recent threats  stemming from biotechnology from the standpoint of bioethics, the giganti’sm of cities which are becoming  inhuman places, the rapid deterioration of the environment with seemingly irreversible effects, the scandalous and  permanent effects of ignorance and educational inequalities, and the distressing situation of political oppression  and denial of basic human rights in several parts of the planet, the upsurge of inter-ethnie conflicts with their dead  weight of fundamentalism, xenophobia and intolerance, the generational genocide caused by illicit drug use, and  the moral crisis reflected in corruption, both public and private.
(27.4) This chequered picture, alive with hope and optimism, and also, paradoxically, with unequivocal signs of  disquiet, is such that society of the twenty-tïrst Century Will continue to join with us, and with the founders of  UNESCO, in the laborious quest for peace, freedom, democracy, the effective application of human rights and the  attainment of development with a human face, with equity and respect for ah aspects of the natural world. They are  old and recurring Utopias which represent essential prerequisites for complete human, individual and collective  fulfilment, yesterday, today and also tomorrow.
(27.5) Perhaps the greatest challenge at this stage of humanity’s joumey is the globalization and planetarization  not only of our problems and our concems, but also of our resources and solutions. This global village, to which we  increasingly belong, creates growing interdependence in the economic, political, social and cultural fïelds among  ah nations, human communities and individuals. The world is thrusting itself into our homes, our schools and our  own intimate surroundings, bringing new perspectives and outlooks, but also risks, for the assertion of our cultural  identity.
(27.6) In this time of questioning, searching and hopes, UNESCO undoubtedly represents a respected and  valued body which, while remaining zealously faithful to the guiding Princip]es of its Constitution, is taking up  with lucidity and creativity the challenges of the third millennium. Accordingly, adjusting to the new  circumstances, UNESCO is continuing to grow in strength and is renewing itself in its irreplaceable ethical  mission, its responsibility for intellectual leadership, its universalist dimension and its vocation of service on behalf  of peace and development, through education, science, culture and communication.
(27.7) The distinctive role of UNESCO is precisely that of constructing the ‘defences of peace’ by drawing on  the ‘intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind’. lts own field is thought, creation and action in a spirit of  solidarity. For this reason, allow me to stress that the Organization must strengthen its role and its responsibility for  being a special source of reflection, exploration and guidance, in a permanent forum of dialogue and pluralist and  transdisciplinary debate, in an institutional framework of exchanges and convergence, constantly renewing itself  and adapting to the changes of today and tomorrow, and in a singular body of concerted discussion, mobilization of  wills and international co-operation.
(27.8) Mr President, the Govemment of the Republic of Paraguay fully shares the strategic and programme  priorities of UNESCO as defïned in the Medium-Term Strategy (1996-2001) now being implemented and in’the  programme of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1998-1999. Indeed, it has incorporated some of them in its  national and international policies.
(27.9) In the fïrst place, there cari be no doubt that the promotion of the culture of peace through education for  democracy and the exercise of human rights is of the utmost importance. This new culture ofpeace currently  represents the great challenge for international society and for every nation, the purpose being to achieve the  effective application of values, attitudes and behaviour pattems that embody respect for the life and dignity of the  human person, a lïrm commitment to the Princip]es of freedom, democracy, justice and solidarity, and a rejection of  ah forms of violence, discrimination and exclusion.
(27.10) This is how the Constituent National Assembly saw things, when it made provision, in Article 144 of the  new Paraguayan Constitution, for the renunciation of war. In order to construct this much sought-alter peace and  affirm understanding among nations and among human communities, groups and even citizens of the same country,  education is and Will continue to be me strategic and crucial resource.
(27.11) Accordingly, 1 wish to emphasize that the President of the Republic of Paraguay, Mr Juan Carlos  Wasmosy, proposed, on the occasion of the eleventh Summit of Latin American Countries of the Rio Group (the  last to be held to date), to include the subject of education for democracy among the priority programmes for  regional action. Education for democracy is seen as concerted action involving the state, formal and non-forma]  educational institutions, the media and the various organizations of civil society, in order to guarantee the stability
96    and reinforcement of authentically democratic institutions. It encompasses knowledge, values, attitudes and  activities which foster living together, responsibility and solidarity by promoting the training of citizens who have  an open-minded approach to social issues, a participatory and tolerant attitude to political issues, and efficiency in  economic matters, while being respectfùl of human rights and conscious of the irreplaceable value of the resources  provided by nature.
(27.12) Likewise, the educational reform which is being successfully implemented with favourable results in  Paraguay represents an authentic strategic option for the present government. Paraguay’s educational reform seeks  to consolidate democracy and combat poverty which, as we know, feeds on ignorance, while preserving national  identity in the framework of regional integration. In fact, in Paraguay, given the extremely high percentage of its  population composed of children and Young people (more than 70 per cent of the population is under the age  of30), a real improvement in the availability and quality of education - reducing repetition and drop-out and  improving educational attainments - represents a key economic and social factor in that it Will increase the  productivity of human resources and thereby effectively reduce poverty and improve the living standards of the  population.
(27.13) Mr Director-General, another concem of singular importance that we share with UNESCO is the  preservation and enhancement of the tangible and intangible cultural heritage and the promotion of living cultures,  by giving culture a leading role in establishing democracy, strengthening the national community and boosting  economic growth.
(27.14) Paraguay is a bilingual multi-ethnie and multicultural commun@, in which the majority of the population  daily uses both Spanish and Guarani, and the Constitution grants both languages the status of officia1 languages.  Indeed, one of the innovations introduced in the current educational reform is the bilingual education programme,  which sets out to produce well-adjusted bilingual citizens who cari express themselves and communicate fluently in  both Guarani and Spanish. In granting Guarani an officia1 entry to the classroom, this programme truly reflects the  sociolinguistic reality of Paraguay, to which the state had never before given serious consideration, and by that very  fact it implies a real cultural revolution and a clear stance of assertion of national identity.
(27.15) In addition, stress has been laid in MERCOSUR on the cultural integration of the member countries,  while respecting and fervently enhancing the divers@ and cultural and linguistic plural@ of the region as the  expression of ongoing popular creativity and as a valuable contribution to the multiculturalism that is a feature of  this age of globalization.
(27.16) Lastly, Mr Director-General, Mr President, 1 want particularly to subscribe to UNESCO’s activities  connected with the celebration of the tïftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights next year,  inasmuch as the explicit statement and ratification of human rights that belong intrinsically to the dignity of the  human person represent, without any doubt, one of the most outstanding achievements at international level in the  past 50 years.
(27.17) UNESCO, more than any other international organization, is aware, and propagates the conviction, that  such rights form part of the ‘common heritage of humanity’ because, to paraphrase the eloquent and well  remembered words of René Cassin, these rights seek to protect human beings in their totality and, at the same time,  the rights of every woman and every man. Moreover, the full application of civil, political, economic, social and  cultural rights is essential and fundamental for the achievement of the main goals of humanity in the twenty-first  Century: peace, democracy and sustainable and equitable development.
(27.18) Similarly, and in conclusion, this Will be an excellent opportunity to proclaim new rights, like the right to  development, the right to the safeguarding of cultural identities and cultural development, and the right to the  future, as the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, is SO rightly wont to repeat. Thank you.
28. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Pier Marino Menicucci, ministre de l’éducation, de la culture,  des universités et de la justice de Saint-Marin.
29.1 M. MENICUCCI (Saint-Marin) :  (discours prononcé en italien, texte français fourni par la délégation)  Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames, Messieurs,  cette session, qui vient tout juste de s’ouvrir, m’offre I’occasion unique de rendre hommage en mon nom personnel  et au nom du gouvernement que j’ai l’honneur de représenter au Directeur général de I’UNESCO, Federico  Mayor. J’aimerais lui exprimer toute notre gratitude pour son honnêteté intellectuelle, qui s’est orientée vers une  analyse lucide des prQbIémes mondiaux ; je voudrais exprimer notre estime pour le courage et la dignité de  l’homme de parole qui a guidé I’UNESCO vers un renouveau indispensable et je voudrais faire nôtres les  inquiétudes qui imprègnent ses réflexions et confirmer que nous appuyons pleinement l’homme d’action qui  regarde en face les problèmes de notre société, afin de nous conduire vers la recherche en commun de solutions.  En outre, je tiens à remercier le Secrétariat qui joue un rôle irremplaçable, et à vous remercier tous, Mesdames et
97    Messieurs les délégués, parce que de nos réflexions communes nous pourrions tirer la sève vitale, si importante  pour un petit pays comme le mien qui est profondément attaché aux idéaux et aux valeurs de I’UNESCO.
29.2 Notre pays a toujours cru dans la force des idéaux de liberté, de démocratie, de respect de la personne et  de solidarité. Notre pays est un pays qui s’est laissé guidé par la foi en ces idéaux et qui a trouvé dans ces mêmes  idéaux la raison de sa propre survie, surmontant, indemne, à travers les siècles, les pièges et les dangers qui  menaçaient une liberté qu’il a défendue.
29.3 En I’UNESCO, Saint-Marin a trouvé non seulement un point de référence pour le rôle catalyseur  incombant à l’Organisation, mais aussi une projection à l’échelle planétaire des valeurs qui ont toujours inspiré sa  propre identité historique et culturelle.
29.4 Le millénaire qui s’achève a marqué un changement fondamental dans la coopération internationale.  Grâce à un engagement collectif et à une admirable et incessante action diplomatique internationale, les barrières  qui opposaient grands et petits Etats sont tombées, le monde ayant compris la logique d’un destin commun.  Malheureusement, le fossé qui sépare les pays développés et les pays en développement n’a pas été comblé. Il  n’en est pas moins vrai que la communauté internationale a fait de grands pas en avant et n’a cessé de croire dans  cette action.
29.5 Il serait terrible, comme l’a observé le Directeur général de I’UNESCO dans son introduction au  programme, que l’amertume provoquée par des résultats qui ne sont pas encore satisfaisants serve de prétexte  pour tomber dans l’indifférence. Lorsqu’on a demandé à Mère Teresa quel était le péché capital de la société  contemporaine, elle a répondu : “détruire la capacité d’aimer”.
29.6 Nous devons réfléchir et faire en sorte que chacune de nos actions soit véritablement imprégnée de la  notion de solidarité, qui signifie savoir partager avec l’autre. Nous avons conscience que les nouvelles  générations nous offrent une force extraordinaire. Nous ne devons pas décevoir les attentes des jeunes, qui par le  biais de tant de formes de bénévolat non seulement nous demandent de les aider, mais nous indiquent sans  présomption aucune la voie à suivre. Dans ce même domaine, je désire féliciter le Directeur général qui a  manifesté clairement dans ses analyses et dans ses actes ce grand esprit d’ouverture à la jeunesse et aux jeunes  générations.
29.7 Mon pays approuve les grandes orientations qui inspirent le programme de I’UNESCO jusqu’en 1999,  ainsi que le programme à moyen terme qui va jusqu’en 200 1. On a cherché à privilégier les grands projets qui  répondent aux objectifs de l’Acte constitutif, en évitant les dispersions et les doubles emplois avec les recherches  et les activités menées par d’autres organisations internationales. Une intense collaboration a d’ailleurs été  entamée avec ces organisations. Cela permettra d’utiliser au mieux les ressources pour les mettre au service  d’objectifs communs.
29.8 Parmi les nouvelles orientations, je souligne avec satisfaction la création d’une Commission mondiale  d’éthique des connaissances scientifiques et des technologies qui se penchera sur trois thèmes de recherche  décisifs pour la destinée des générations futures : l’éthique des énergies, l’éthique des ressources en eau douce et  la nouvelle société de l’information. Il convient de poursuivre les travaux entrepris par le Comité international de  bioéthique, qui iront au-delà de la Déclaration sur le génome humain. Développer une culture qui sache bien  gérer les conséquences éthiques et sociales de la génétique est la seule antidote contre une rationalité économique  mal comprise, inévitablement annonciatrice de contraintes intolérables et de nouvelles violences raffinées à  l’encontre des individus.
29.9 Mon pays, par l’intermédiaire de sa Commission nationale pour KJNESCO et d’un certain nombre  d’institutions, adoptera l’année prochaine, avec beaucoup d’intérêt, les suggestions que I’UNESCO a formulées  pour la célébration du cinquantième anniversaire de la Déclaration des droits de l’homme. Cette célébration qui  coïncide presque avec le passage à un nouveau millénaire sera comme un phare et un présage favorable pour nos  responsabilités politiques, gouvernementales, culturelles et sociales.
29.10 Monsieur le Directeur général, au moment de conclure mon intervention, je désire souligner que tous les  domaines de compétence de KJNESCO sont fondamentaux pour notre société, et si je ne vais pas plus avant,  c’est parce que je tiens à respecter le temps de parole suggéré par le Secrétariat. Nous croyons profondément en  I’UNESCO et dans la volonté de la grande famille que l’Organisation représente.
29.11 Parmi les événements qui ont marqué la vie de mon pays cette année, il en est un qui constitue une  priorité absolue pour la vie religieuse et civile de Saint-Marin : le grand pèlerinage qui a réuni à Rome le 19 mai
1997 plus de 8.000 personnes venues rendre visite à Sa Sainteté Jean-Paul II.
29.12 En cette occasion mémorable, le Saint-Père, parlant de mon pays, a dit : “Même une petite nation est  grande si elle s’appuie sur le rocher de la vérité et si elle irradie la lumière de la justice”. Ces paroles sont gravées  de façon indélébile dans la conscience de tous ceux qui ont vécu cet événement extraordinaire. Je désire les  évoquer aujourd’hui, en cette circonstance où le monde s’interroge sur son propre destin, et je forme le voeu  qu’elles puissent devenir le patrimoine de l’humanité tout entière, pour l’instauration de la paix, qui est l’axe  majeur de toute l’action de I’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
30. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Emmanuel Bengu, ministre de l’éducation de l’Afrique  du Sud.
31.1 Mr BENGU (South Africa):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies and fellow delegates, UNESCO kept faith with the  people of South Africa during the darkest years of apartheid. We, in tum, pledge ourselves to the implementation  of UNESCO’s ‘programmes. We reaffïrm our commitment to the ideals of UNESCO, in particular on the eve of  the tïftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We encourage civic education  programmes and lifelong leaming in order to increase awareness and to raise the educational level of a11 people.  We shall strive for the values of responsibility, accountability, transparency and solidarity which underlie our  participatory democracy. It is in this spirit that we wish to tûltïl our membership role in UNESCO and SO keep  our faith with UNESCO.
31.2 We support UNESCO programmes in line with the general review and reform initiatives of the United  Nations system which are more strategic in planning and programming. Taking the diminishing resources to  govemments and organizations into account, we urge UNESCO to use its resources to address problems which  face many govemments, especially in developing countries.
31.3 Sekunjalo! In South Africa this means ‘Now is the time for us to act!’ In this context, we would like to  reflect on the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biemrium. Reform and development of strategies for the  twenty-first century, as captured in the Draft Programme and Budget, are priorities and priority areas for South  Africa too.
31.4 Education remains the foremost priority area of UNESCO and serves as the basis of a11 other programme  activities. We support the cal1 for lifelong education for all. Such a strategy must ensure flexibility in  implementation, corresponding to national and regional needs, priorities and innovative practices. At the last  General Conference, UNESCO signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Southem Africa Development  Community (SADEC), whose Member States recently signed a Protocol on Education and Training to improve  co-operation and CO-ordination for eventual policy harmonization. We cal1 for support for this agreement.
31.5 We have been honoured with the privilege of hosting the Pan-Afiican Conference of Ministers of  Education in April1998, jointly sponsored by the Organization of Afi-ican Unity and UNESCO. The Conference  Will caver the Iùll spectrum of education and Will thus provide an opportunity for African govemments to  evaluate progress on our continent since the Jomtien Declaration of Education for All. The African continent is  still faced with the highest levels of poverty, environmental degradation, social conflict, gender inequality,  hunger and disease. We need appropriate strategies to address these problems, in parallel with the preparations  for the challenges of the information age and the global economic revolution.
31.6 The need for science, health, environmental education and the development of local technological  capacity cari never be overstated. UNESCO’s adoption of the World Solar Programme, with its promise of  ‘reaching the unreached’ is encouraging. In this regard we hope that the initiative of the Government of  Mozambique to host the Pan-African Conference on Sustainable, Integrated Coastal Management Will receive  support from Member States and that these efforts Will be hamessed by the Secretariat of UNESCO.
31.7 We look forward to preparing for the World Science Conference in 1999, which Will provide synergy  between our sociocultural existence and the techno-economic realities of the modem world. South Africa has  declared 1998 as the Year of Science and Technology. We are training and retraining teachers in the area of an  outcomes-based curricula, known as Curriculum 2005, and this includes science and technology. 1 am confident  that our activities Will feed into the UNESCO World Science Conference in 1999. We also look forward to  participating in the UNESCO 1998 International Year of the Ocean and would welcome support for the activities  of UNESCO’s technical subsidiary bodies in our subregion, which is under-represented and under-prepared in  these programmes.
31.8 Mr President, we are proud to have become the 150th State Party to the World Heritage Convention,  another fitting symbol of our reintegration into the community of nations. Finally, 1 would like to reflect on the  ethical mission of UNESCO, as recently embodied in its undertakings to pledge international solidarity with  regard to rapid developments in the field of bioethics. We welcome and support the draft declarations pertaining  to the human genome and to the responsibilities of present generations towards future generations. The needs of  Young people as part of the theme of this Conference are to be addressed.
31.9 We recall and express our appreciation for the Director-General’s first visit to South Africa in 1996.  Thank you.
32. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Abdulla Yousef Al-Ghunaim,  ministre de l’éducation et de l’éducation supérieure du Koweït.
(33.1) Mr AL-GHUNAIM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabie):  In the name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate, Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, heads of delegations,  delegates and members of the distinguished audience, 1 should like to convey the salutations of Kuwait to your  General Conference and extend congratulations on behalf of Kuwait to the President of the General Conference on  being chosen for this worthy task. 1 equally applaud the endeavour of the President of the previous session of the  General Conference. 1 take this opportunity to express thanks and full appreciation for the devoted efforts of  Mr Mayor, the Director-General, and his executive colleagues throughout UNESCO, and compliment their  constructive activity aimed at accomplishing the objectives and programmes for which UNESCO was established  and which are incorporated in its strategy and plans. 1 am also pleased to congratulate the Organization on the  return of the United Kingdom to its fold; the applause with which it was received a short while ago indicates the  signitïcance of its return for the Organization’s programmes and the implementation of its policies.
(33.2) Ladies and gentlemen, at the threshold of a new Century, we look forward to the prospect of a new world  and stand together to face its challenges in search of a better life for our peoples. Today, in the surroundings of  UNESCO, the home of intellect and culture and the forum in which human dignity and freedoms are proclaimed,  we meet to engage in dialogue and to seek from our experiences and hopes the priorities which we aim to achieve  through co-operation, for there is no place in tomorrow’s world for isolation and solitary action. Globalization is its  motto and its reality, in which sense substantial progress has been made. In order to live in that world, co-operation  is imperative and individual security and peace are a priority, together with security and peace on earth and among  peoples. In UNESCO and in our own countries, our strategies of action for building a new world must emphasize  those priorities, otherwise our achievements Will be worthless and the new world in our sights Will become a jungle  where all noble values decline, where resources are spent on armaments and on sharpening the teeth of aggression,  and where spending on the development of human resources and the enhancement of their ability to create  civilization and achieve advancement is replaced by extravagant spending on the industry of destruction.
(33.3) Consequently, each time we meet, particularly at our General Conference, we must reiterate our urgings  and constant reminders to one another to adopt the watchword proclaimed by UNESCO since its establishment,  affirming that security is not achieved by arms alone, but by deepening individual faith in peace, justice,  deliberation and joint co-operation. Wars begin in the minds of men and it is in the minds of men that the defences  of peace must be constructed. In Kuwait, we who suffered treacherous aggression against our peaceful nation are  profoundly aware of the devastation wreaked by the accumulation of weapons and tools of mass destruction in the  hands of tyrants. Countries which have suffered aggression are asking, and we with them, what sort of peace cari be  established if students, women, children and elderly persons are still being held captive, without blame or guilt, in  the dark and gloomy prisons of the aggressors? From this rostrum, we advocate that the tïrst priority in celebrating  the International Year for Human Rights in 1998 should be to call for the release of all captives and detainees being  held worldwide as a result of aggression SO that they cari retum peaceably and with human dignity to their home  countries and families.
(33.4) 1 also associate myself with this moming’s address by the Director-General of UNESCO urging states to  return any illicitly appropriated cultural property to its country of origin. 1 do not believe that any other country has  suffered the pillaging of all its national cultural treasures and public libraries in the way that Kuwait did in 1990.  Having experienced that ordeal, we support Mr Mayor’s call and hope that the Committee formed for that purpose  Will pursue its work in earnest and with integrity.
(33.5) Ladies and gentlemen, in Kuwait we are continuing the task of building and reconstruction following the  devastation of our land, the main priority being to rally our human resources in ongoing co-operation with  international and regional organizations, particularly UNESCO. As for the noble principles and guidelines  concerning education for all and adult education which we met to discuss at Jomtien and Hamburg, and the  undertakings which we made at our international conferences on human rights and sustainable development, we are  truly striving with determination to translate them into foundations and points of departure reflecting our country’s  development strategy, rooted as they are in human nature and in the benign guidance which was bestowed on  humankind by the divine messages around which human experience converges. 1 may perhaps refer to the measures  advocated by the Hamburg Declaration in July 1997 for the promotion and development of continuing education  throughout life, such as setting aside a time, initially an hour a day, for learning and appealing to non-govemmental  organizations and individuals to contribute voluntarily towards the promotion and enrichment of education.  Coincidentally, such measures are similar to approaches and efforts which Kuwait has made; in 1996, an  endowment known as ‘huiiat waof al-watt’ was established to provide funding for associations working in the  public interest and organizations which rely on the voluntary efforts of their members. The law founding the  endowment stipulates that its aim is to motivate individuals who desire more learning to develop their knowledge
102    and abilities on the basis of their preferred fields or specializations SO that they cari volunteer their efforts towards  building their community.
(33.6) We are following the issue of ‘improving the quality of education’ and are endeavouring to use the  scient& scale for our educational achievements, applying the determining criteria for the key focus of the plan for  the development of our education system, since we believe that access to high quality education enables citizens to  acquire knowledge, culture, ski11 and awareness throughout their life’s joumey, thus enriching their contribution, be  they men or women, in a11 competitive fields, in the open market and in facing the future and its challenges. We are  looking forward to co-operation from UNESCO with a view to enhancing our national expertise with its experience  and efforts in that fïeld.
(33.7) Teachers, their professional development, the improvement of their material and social status and the  establishment of a democratic climate in educational establishments that Will offer them greater opportunity to  participate in work-related decisions are a11 issues which lie at the heart of the plan for the advancement of our  education system. We are endeavouring to further the progress already made in that respect; 5 October, World  Teachers’ Day, was declared a national holiday for teachers in Kuwait. At a11 levels, celebrations were held to pay  them tribute and those with outstanding records were specially honoured, either materially or otherwise. We  welcome co-operation with UNESCO experts in the teachers’ professional development programmes and in the  organization of programmes for teachers to visit top experts with a view to further enhancing our efforts. Through  the activities carried out by the UNESCO Associated Schools Project with which we affliated with last year;  Kuwait has achieved substantial progress in implementing educational programmes on preserving the environment,  promoting tolerance and emphasizing human rights.
(33.8) Kuwait remedied the extensive environmental devastation inflicted on our territory by the treacherous  hostile action in what was described as the crime of the Century by means of institutional action, beginning with the  establishment of a general environmental organization that brings together the skills and institutions involved in  regenerating the environment. In co-operation with legislative, scientific and educational institutions, it devised an  integral plan comprising positive approaches and phases which were eventually implemented. Kuwait’s Child and  Mother Centre, established in co-operation with UNESCO, the Arab Gulf Programme in Support of United Nations  Development Organizations and the Kuwait Scientifïc Development Foundation, plays a vital role in providing  services and programmes related to awareness-raising, education, training and welfare, attracting voluntary efforts  which have been increasingly successful in these fïelds. We hope that it Will continue to receive support SO that it  cari carry on providing its services to Kuwait and the Arab States.
(33.9) At the conclusion of this address, as 1 look upon the leaders, intellectuals and officiais who have corne  from a11 corners of the world to gather at this meeting with the most honourable and noblest of intents to co-operate  in steering the joumey of humankind on this planet and ensure that our practice is guided by devotion, geared  towards co-operation and aimed at peace, 1 feel hope, confidence and optimism, despite the violence, unrest, war  and destruction which engulf our world and the subjugation which threatens the dignity of the human race, and  believe that a new dawn is approaching amid all the gloom and that UNESCO’s enduring role in constructing that  hope is an effective one which merits support and encouragement. With our respects, may Peace and the Mercy and  Blessings of God be upon you.
34. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Areepen Utarasint, vice-  ministre de l’éducation de la Thaïlande.
35.1 Mr UTARASINT (Thailand):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates and  observers, ladies and gentlemen, the Thai Delegation would like to congratulate you on being elected President  of this General Conference. We also thank Mr Torben Krogh, the outgoing President, and the members of his  Working Group, for their work on the structure and fùnction of the General Conference. 1 look forward to the  positive results to follow.
35.2 Mr President, this session of the General Conference is a special and happy occasion on which we strive  to strengthen our Organization SO that it Will more effectively respond to the challenges of the advent of the  twenty-fïrst Century. We therefore welcome the retum of the United Kingdom which we hope Will be followed by  other former Member States SO that UNESCO’s universality Will be realized in the near future.
35.3 In our globalized world, it is evident that any event, with social, economic or environmental  consequences, in a particular country cari undoubtedly affect the entire region and thus requires a collective  approach to address the problems. The situation in South-East Asia is a case in point. In Thailand, we are trying  to deal with our economic crises and environmental hazards. Nonetheless, we believe that with our determination,  wisdom and ability, together with good wishes and concrete support from friends, we cari soon recover and  resume our former active position where we cari render help and support to others in retum.
35.4 Mr President, the people of Thailand Will always remember and cherish this month of October 1997. It  is the month when we are granted our new Constitution by royal decree. The new Constitution differs fiom a11  other previous ones in that it truly reflects the voices from the grass roots through their own elected  representatives and leading thinkers of the country. It also places more emphasis on the rights to education; in  particular, free basic education for 12 years, as well as the cultural rights which ensure diversity as well as unity.  These are the basic human rights expounded, assuring everyone full access to democratization. And 1 am happy  that a11 these developments are taking place in Thailand at the time of the celebration of the fïftieth anniversary of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
35.5 Thailand Iûlly supports the celebration of anniversaries of great personalities and historic events. This  programme, 1 believe, reflects UNESCO’s ideals regarding the humanistic and cultural solidarity of countries  across regions. These celebrations which take place in various Member States also enhance UNESCO’s visibility  and publicity around the world. In this regard, 1 would like to inform the Conference that, for the year 2000,  Thailand has nominated the centenary celebration of Professor Pridi Banomyong, eminent humanist and founder  of the Thai democratic and constitutional monarchy, who was also a staunch supporter of democratic movements  in other countries: We hope to work with UNESCO and other interested countries on the preparation of this  celebration.
35.6 Mr President, in the fïeld of education, Thailand, like many other countries, is continuing its effort to  reform its educational processes to ensure a better quality of education and to meet the changing needs ofall  sectors of its population. We recognize the need to focus on the pocket ofproblems in our society, namely the  disadvantaged children and children in diffïcult circumstances. In this connection, we are happy to support and  participate in the special plenary meeting on education and the eradication of poverty, to be held duringthe  General Conference. As the host country to the World Conference on Education for Al1 in 1990, we have been  proud to bear witness to concerted efforts from a11 sectors in support of the Jomtien Declaration. We, therefore,  look forward to the coming end-of-decade and dawn-of-millennium review to mark the advances we have SO far  made in the areas of basic education, and welcome any proposed mechanism by Member States to reach such a  goal.
35.7 Mr President, in the fïeld of sciences, Thailand supports the synergies between the natural sciences and  the social and human sciences. Such a strategy is required in order to lay down ethical norms for a development  which equally considers man and woman and his or her proper place in the physical and social world. Thailand  supports studies and research into environmental and sustainable development. During the past biennium,  Thailand’s nomination of a new biosphere reserve in the province of Ranong in Southem Thailand signifies our  concem for the preservation of mangrove areas. Moreover, Thailand has continued efforts to implement the  commitments it made at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development by ratifying the  Convention on Biological Diversity. We hope in the near future to improve natural and environmental  management practices and devise joint measures to be taken up by the international community for the real and  urgent environmental problems shared by the whole Asia-Pacific region.
35.8 Thailand commends the report Our Creative Diversity which UNESCO has published. It is our policy  and commitment to promote the culture of peace and tolerance. We have leamed to ‘give’ and ‘take’ at  appropriate times and leamed to compromise in order to keep peace.
35.9 Mr President, Thailand continues to support the decentralization policy and its implementation. We also  endorse the Executive Board’s decision on the establishment of future field offices. We urge that field units  should not be at the expense of the strength and validity of National Commissions and the Regional Office. The  Regional Office must maintain its leading role in guiding and supporting, where necessary, field units in the  region. In conclusion, Thailand believes in the relevance of UNESCO as an international intellectual forum, and  reaffirms its commitments for the support of the Organization’s future. This is in line with the strategy adopted by  our current National Social and Economie Development Plan which stresses human development and the  promotion of the inner capacity of people as the sole source for the survival and sustainable development of the  nation. Thank you very much.
36. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Fawzi Hobeiche, ministre de la culture et  de l’enseignement supérieur duLiban.
(37.1) Mr HOBEICHE (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 am pleased to add my voice to  those preceding me on this rostrum to offer you, Mr President, my warm congratulations on your election as  President of this Conference and wish you success in this momentous task for which you are eminently qualitïed. 1  also take this opportuhity to welcome with utmost delight the United Kingdom’s return to UNESCO, which  enhances the Organization’s universality.
(37.2) The time allocated to me under the guidelines of the Executive Board is not long enough for a discussion  of Lebanon’s position on the key issues before us at this Conference. 1 shah therefore confine myself to responding
4  to some of UNESCO’s questions to Member States and to mentioning specific points which have a firm connection  with the work of the Conference. In doing SO, 1 may perhaps help to steer UNESCO along its cultural, educational  and scientific course in the final stage of its Medium-Term Plan, which coincides with the end of this Century and  the start of a new Century.
(37.3) 1 must lïrst of all remind you of a subject to which 1 gladly return whenever presented with the  opportunity, by which 1 mean the strong and solid relationship between UNESCO and Lebanon. Lebanon and  UNESCO have been travel companions ever since UNESCO was established and Will remain SO for many years to  corne. My country still recalls with pride that the third session of this Organization’s General Conference was held  in Lebanon almost 50 years ago. Ever since that time, an entire district of Beirut has been known as the UNESCO  district as a reminder to successive generations that UNESCO and its lol%y humanitarian mission are as much part  of Lebanon’s mission as the UNESCO district is part of Beirut, the capital of Lebanon. 1 propose to your General  Conference that it should think seriously about UNESCO resuming its former practice of occasionally holding its  General Conference, according to a set method, if possible, in the various capitals of the world. This would increase  UNESCO’s presence and also open the way for many states, including my own country, Lebanon, to welcome it in  their land.
(37.4) The second point relates to the new version of the Ci5 document concerning the Programme and Budget,  This time it provides a clearer and more succinct summary of the reports presented to previous General  Conferences, which seems to me to be a worthwhile qualitative improvement. Whether or not that is true Will be  confirmed by our deliberations over the next few days.
(37.5) The third point relates to the particular focal concerns raised by the documents before us. 1 would like to  draw attention to four of them which 1 believe to be distinctive. They are, first, the tension and conflicts caused by  deprivation, poverty, hunger and pollution. These are problems common to ail countries of the world and serious  initiatives are being taken to resolve them. It is incumbent on the countries with the largest human and fïnancial  resources to make efforts and sacrifices to achieve concrete progress in that respect, thus preserving humanity and  ensuring that the gap between societies worldwide grows no further. UNESCO, which represents the conscience of  the world and which is aware of its responsibilities in this connection, knows that aid from rich and powerful  countries to poor countries or countries suffering from famine, pollution and the depletion of natural resources is  not only a noble human duty, for it also guarantees security in the world and in the rich and powerful countries  themselves and safeguards the principles of right, justice and equality. As you know, Mr President, a most obvious  condition of security in the Middle East is the implementation of relevant international resolutions, particularly  Security Council resolution 425. A balance in development, science and culture among the countries of the world is  in the interests of rich and poor countries alike. In a world which leans towards shameless fanaticism, such a  balance is creative and also promotes stability and calm, which are prerequisites for progress and prosperity.
(37.6) Secondly, UNESCO has excelled under the direction of its esteemed Executive Board and its Director-  General, having focused its concern on the ethical dimension of modem scientific developments and associated  questions. A high-level international committee was therefore formed to explore this important aspect of human  development. We endorse this trend and urge its strengthening. In the same context, we also endorse the  Organization’s efforts to highlight the role of Young people, in particular the role of Young women in society, and  the need to instil the values of fairness, tolerance and peace and establish a creative balance between material  progress and the values and vii-tues without which genuine progress cannot be achieved. In terms of shaping the  future, the role of Young people in the adoption of such values and virtues is therefore highly significant.
(37.7) Thirdly, globalization is the natural outcome of the advance in global communications. We therefore  support the Organization’s further study of this phenomenon and its consequences and repercussions on the  national heritage of peoples, as we should endeavour to ensure that globalization does not endanger the heritage or  have the effect of tuming it into mere folklore, notwithstanding the full respect and appreciation due to the  unquestionable value of folklore in the national heritage of peoples. Lebanon is intent on its mission of calling for  rapprochement and understanding among peoples, a mission which it takes on board in educating its Young people  and which encompasses the human values combined in its educational curricula and cultural programmes. At the  same time, we affirm that none of the world’s peoples Will truly advance without adhering to their national identity  and authentic cultural heritage, nor, of course, without adopting the means of modern technological progress.  Lebanon welcomes and endorses the plans made at this Conference to hold seminars on these essential intellectual  focuses of concem and calls for the future strengthening of this trend. This General Conference is an opportunity to  hold seminars and exchange viewpoints on the world’s major cultural, scientilïc and educational questions and we  should take advantage of it through such important focal seminars.
(37.8) Fourthly, we endorse and also stress the essential nature of the endeavour to highlight the role of higher  education in the field of development and link it with the needs of society. Every society harbours a growing  concern to ensure that its members have the opportunity to pursue higher education. This highly signifïcant  question, however, takes concrete shape through reconciling such expansion in higher education with the  requirements of vital scientilïc research in higher education, as well as society’s needs for those requirements. In  this fïeld as well, we need that creative balance which 1 mentioned earlier. We hope that the regional conferences  on higher education to be organized by UNESCO next year, including the regional conference on higher education
107    in Arab countries to be held in Beirut next March, will throw new light on the subject and propose practical steps  for achieving the development of higher education in this balanced direction. In this connection, I hope that the  Director-General Will personally attend the Conference. In particular, 1 also hope that it Will coincide with the  launch of the international campaign for the protection of the ancient town of Tyre, which is a historical beacon  shining over the shores of the eastem Mediterranean.
(37.9) 1 further hope that, at the same time, we Will celebrate with a vigorous start the International Centre for  Human Sciences in the ancient town of Byblos, whose unique cultural identity we in Lebanon are making every  effort to protect. The International Centre for Human Sciences in Byblos Will be a cultural crossroads for the  academic world and an authority for scientists and scholars of ail nationalities that cari be used in monitoring the  world’s most advanced intellectual trends, in carrying out studies in the social and human sciences and in  broaching major questions facing scientists in the modern world.
(37.10) Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I cannot leave this rostrum without acclaiming the endeavour of the  Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, as well as the broad outlook, farsightedness, wisdom and determination with  which he administers UNESCO. We cari perhaps best repay his self-sacrifice in the service of this Organization by  working with him to strengthen its capacity for giving in the service of humanity. This cannot be achieved - and let  us be frank - without the provision of substantial human and material resources to implement its programmes. We  note, however, that the Organization’s budget for the next two years is lower than the previous two years. The least  that cari be said about it is that it is incongruous with the demands which we make of UNESCO and the  responsibilities which we impose on it. Let us therefore redouble our efforts to support this Organization and its  programmes if we want it to be, as we constantly reiterate, the living conscience of the world and an intellectual  pioneer in the fields of science, culture, education and communications. Long life to you and to UNESCO. Thank  you.
38. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Moufid Mahmoud Shehab,  ministre de l’enseignement supérieur, ministre d’Etat pour la recherche scientifique de l’Egypte.
(39.1) Mr SHEHAB (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of  LJNESCO, heads of delegations and members of the Conference, I am extremely happy to be given the opportunity  to speak before you at UNESCO Headquarters in this centuries-old City, Paris, a symbol of international co-  operation in the fïelds of education, science and culture and a guiding light towards which the gaze of the entire  wdd is directed in an atmosphere of liiendship, fellowship and progress among the peoples. I corne to you bearing  greetings from Egypt, the country of civilization and peace. Egyptian civilization tïrst flourished on the banks of  the Nile 7,000 years ago; its wonders have survived to this day as testimony to the progress achieved by the  Egyptians in the fïelds of science, literature and art and as an expression of their profound sense of the need to  reconcile earth and sky and achieve a balance between body and SOU~. 1 also corne to you from the country of peace,  which is at one with a11 Egyptians as they reach out to a11 the peoples of the world to pervade everyone with good  and bring security and stability to a11 humanity.
(39.2) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, this Organization was established for the  noblest of purposes and the most honourable of efforts are made by every one of the individuals in it. Egypt was  one of UNESCO’s first founding states and still strives to tülfïl its role, which grows with each day, and to tackle  the burdens imposed on it by the circumstances of today’s world. While it is true that the fearsome spectre of war  bas disappeared from the horizon, major problems, such as unemployment, pollution and terrorism, have begun to  reach alarming proportions in virtually a11 parts of the world. Enormous efforts are therefore required to contain  them, coupled with genuine action to resolve them. Experience has proven that, regardless of strength and  capability, no country in the world cari eliminate such problems single-handedly for the simple reason they are now  universal in character and demand concerted efforts and the co-operation of a11 countries, as well as the voluntary  service of individuals who are concerned about world peace and are pleased when it flourishes.
(39.3) The world is clearly embarking on a new regime where trade between states is liberalized and where  many of the traditional barriers and obstacles have fallen. Indeed, it has become a world of open skies, with  information pouring in from a11 sides and out in a11 directions. There is no doubt that a new contract, or rather  contracts, must be formulated in line with this new world order. None of this cari be done except by conducting  constructive dialogue, exchanging views and drawing real benefit from the experience of others. It is an established  fact that no one mind possesses the whole truth. On the contrary, a11 minds work in conjunction to arrive at the  truth. Greater rapprochement, solidarity and cohesion are therefore necessarily required of us.
(39.4) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, a major barrier which we should a11 unite  to eliminate is the one existing between the developed and developing countries. It is noticeable that current  technological progress has greatly increased the height and solidity of such barriers to the point where they now  create a distinction between the members of the human race, whom God created free, with equal rights and duties.  UNESCO’s efforts should therefore be aimed at alleviating the acute differences between the developed and  developing countries, or more precisely, between the human beings in the north and their fellow human beings in  the south. If  efforts to achieve this desired rapprochement are essentially demanded from politicians, economists  and administrators, the cultural and moral role of UNESCO nonetheless ensures dazzling results in that lïeld.  Echoing the statements of a11 the colleagues who preceded me, 1 truly regard UNESCO as the conscience of  humanity; it alerts humanity to the danger spots and leads it on to the right path.
(39.5) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, the greetings which 1 bring you from  Egypt are accompanied by hopes and aspirations, the fïrst of these being for greater efforts to promote the spread of  the culture of peace and prosperity in place of the culture of expansion and aggression. In this regard, we look  forward to intensification of the campaign against weapons of mass destruction, landmines and anything which  disfigures the pleasing countenance of humanity. We should therefore focus attention on spending more on  continuing education and should also encourage literature and the arts, which sharpen the mind of humans and  develop their sensitivities and feelings. Secondly, we should focus attention on triggering UNESCO? role in its  efforts aimed at spreading the values of peace and understanding among the peoples by developing a human culture  which aftïrms that the exchange of interests among states Will occur only within the framework ofpeaceful  coexistence based on justice, equality, respect for human rights and the preservation of fundamental human  freedoms guaranteed by divine decree and by international law.
(39.6) Thirdly, the education projects in the fïeld of basic education for a11 and the reform of education in the  perspective of education throughout life are consistent with the development of UNESCO’s accumulated expertise  over the past 50 years, with emphasis on its new projects, such as education in the nine high-population countries,  taking into consideration the most deserving groups, and university and higher education, which was not given due  attention in the past. It is worth noting that the tïfih Conference of Ministers of Education and those Responsible  for Economie Planning in the Arab States recommended that centres of excellence in the Arab States should be  used at the level of those states. The Sars al-Layan Centre in Egypt was selected as one such centre. Regrettably.
4  however, the Draft Budget contains no reference to those resolutions. Fourthly, ‘The sciences in the service of  development’ is an extremely useful programme, particularly since the idea of organizing a World Science  Conference for the fïrst time is given consideration. 1 have two comments to make on this subject: Iïrst, the Arab  region was not taken into consideration in connection with fresh science projects, and secondly, the annual World  Science Report has not yet been published in Arabie.
(39.7) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, we in Egypt are currently waging an  eamest battle for sustainable development, as we believe that the advancement of the human race is the main  objective of such development, which requires political stability, economic reform and the establishment of good  relations with a11 countries SO that we cari provide Egyptians with a11 the means necessary to raising their level. In  this regard, 1 am pleased to refer to various projects which are inspired by the spirit of UNESCO and sometimes  assisted by its expertise and resources, mainly the Reading for Al1 Project, thé Literacy Project, the Open  Univers& Project, the Women in Rural Development Project and, finally, the Project for the Revival of the Library  of Alexandria, the tïrst stage of which has been successfùlly completed. The second stage is now under way and is  due for completion in early 1999. Fumishing and fitting work is also being carried out at the same time, together  with the training of technical personnel.
(39.8) 1 would like to afirrn before your General Conference that we in Egypt are committed to the Constitution  of UNESCO and endeavour to apply its principles and spread its teachings. In making that declaration, we are  expressing that which has been implanted in us by the divine religions, as well as the spirit of Egyptian civilization  rooted deep within us and the values of tolerance, fratemity and peace in which our people has faith.  (M. Shehab poursuit en français)
39.9 Chers amis, pour terminer, je voudrais dire encore une fois le ferme attachement de l’Egypte à la mission  de I’UNESCO, dont mon pays apprécie hautement les réalisations depuis sa création, il y a plus de cinquante ans.  Le gouvernement égyptien s’engage à appuyer tous les efforts de cette Organisation, afin que rayonne son  influence, car l’Egypte est convaincue que la science n’a pas de patrie, que la connaissance appartient à tous, que  les civilisations se complètent et que les cultures s’interpellent pour constituer un patrimoine commun à  l’humanité, ce qui a fait dire à Paul Valéry . “Enrichissons-nous de nos différences”, et me permet ici d’emprunter  cette phrase à Voltaire : “On prend du feu chez son voisin, on l’allume chez soi, on le communique à d’autres, et il  appartient à tous.” Je vous remercie chers amis.
40. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Abel Prieto Jiménez, ministre de la culture  de Cuba.
(41.1) Mr PR!ET0 JIMENEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr Eduardo Portella, President of the General Conference, distinguished representative of the Director-  General, honourable members of the General Committee, ladies and gentlemen. Today, as both this Century and the  second millennium of our era corne to an end, we are having to contend, among many other things, with a dramatic  paradox: there has been extraordinary technologica! development of the information and communication media,  and unti! now there have never been SO many or such sophisticated instruments for educating children and Young  people scientitïcally and enabling men and women to grow spiritually: yet, at the same time, inequality is growing  between a minority of privileged people and a majority which appears condemned to survive in a state of  subordination, without a voice and without hope.
(41.2) Globalization is not synonymous with authentic universality or with democratic access to the possibilities  it offers. The great technological revolution has placed itself at the service of the powerful and those who are trying  to turn human beings into mere consumers. The national identities of the peoples of the South are threatened. The  cultura! divers@ of present-day humanity is now suffering more than ever before from the creeping uniformity  imposed by the globalizing media.
(41.3) Working together from mESC0 and in keeping with the founding Princip!es that gave and still give life  to this Organization, we must resist top-down, authoritarian and univocal styles of discourse that set out to  homogenize languages, lifestyles, habits and cultura! expressions. It is becoming necessary for us to create  alternative channels and to seek formulas for the just and fair use of ah these facilities.
(41.4) Fortunately, the cultura! contribution of a people has nothing to do with its geographica! size. its gross  domestic product or its industria! potential. The so-called Third World has given rise, and continues to give rise, to  expressions of the greatest complexity and depth, while the developed North sends us, a11 too frequently,  subcultura! manifestations rife with stereotypes, revealing the most barren spiritual void, in which racism and  xenophobia, violence and war are often promoted.
(41.5) It is unthinkable that, on the threshold of the third millennium of our era, there should exist side by side  the most sophisticated and complex information highways and approximately one billion Young people and adults  who are incapable of writing their names, who have never had a book in their hands, and who are fatally  condemned to live an inhuman life cycle. intellectually crippled by malnutrition and without ever having known a  teacher.
(41.6) Together with globalization, looming before us are the dogmas of neo-liberalism, which make a fetish of  the market. The unfortunate consequences of the application of this mode! are increasingly obvious. With the end  of the Cold War and the collapse of European socialism, the attempt to impose a single-focus world in a!! areas has  gathered strength.
(41.7) For al! these reasons, it is of the utmost importance to defend a facility like that which this Organization  offers us. Faced with attempts to impose hegemony and Sing!e vision, UNESCO is the forum to which people cari  corne on terms of equality, where respect is shown, as a matter of Princip!e, for the plurality of cultures of the most  widely differing countries and regions. In UNESCO, we cari defend a broader conception of human rights, here  where the right to peace has eq.ua! status with justice, equality and the right to development.
(41.8) Mr President: in Cuba, in the most difficult conditions, we have succeeded in maintaining the principles  enshrined in UNESCO. Education for al! has always been a priority for our country. We now have more than two  million pupils enrolled in nursery, primary, secondary and technica! and vocational schools. A quarter of a million  teachers, a!! of them univers&leve! graduates, guarantee the operation of the education system. We have one  teacher to every 42 inhabitants, which makes us the country with the largest number of educators in the world.  Without exception, ah who are disabled receive free specia! education. TO us, the school is the most important  institution in the community. As the poet José Marti SO eloquently said: ‘Being educated is the only way of being  free’.
(41.9) Our health programmes have brought infantile mortality in Cuba down to 7.9 per thousand births in the  tïrst year of life, and this is a rate comparable with that of the most developed countries. We have made signitïcant  progress in the fïelds of biotechnology and genetic engineering: in our country, bioethics has its roots in the  Princip!es of scientists such as Carlos J. Finlay and Fernando Ortiz, who have left us a legacy in which scientitïc  precision and human feelings go hand in hand.
(41.10) Culture is for us a genuine popular heritage. In the midst of diftïcult circumstances, we are engaging in  wide-ranging work of restoration, conservation and dissemination of the values of heritage; we are seeking to  enhance the social status of artistic and literary creation and vocationa! training by means of a system of art  education organized throughout the country. Culture as Fernando Ortiz wrote, is ‘not a luxury but a necessity’ and  we have paid the closest attention to this spiritual necessity.
(41.11) Yet, in spite of these conquests which have won the recognition of the international community, Cuba is  subject to constant harassment and aggression by the Govemment of the United States. The Secretariat and the  Member States should know that our endeavours in education. science and culture are permanently threatened by
113    an embargo imposed since the early 1970s by laws of a blatantly extraterritorial nature, such as the Helms-Burton  Act.
(41.12) Solidarity with Cuba is now growing. Today, there are more and more honourable men and women who,  with their independent ideologies and beliefs, are rejecfing the policy which the world’s most powerfùl country is  conducting against my country. On behalf of the Cuban Govemment and people, 1 wish to thank UNESCO for the  unfailing support that it has given us in various sectors and programmes. Cuba, for its part, pledges to continue to  offer its modest collaboration in the activities orchestrated by the Organization.
(41.13) We are convinced that humanism, truc democracy and justice Will prcvail against the dark forces hanging  over our age, and we Will do our ufmost to ensure that the lofty purposes of UNESCO become increasingly  universal and that education, science and culture are really shared by a11 human beings. Cuba has protected, and  continues to protect, its national identity. However, at the same time, it acknowledges its permanent vocation of  universality. In this respect, our social programmes are naturally bound up with the ideals of UNESCO. Today,  Marti’s definition of ‘the motherland as humanity’ is taking on the utmost significance for us. Thank you.
42. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au dernier orateur, Mme Doris Morf, présidente de la Commission nationale suisse  pour I’UNESCO.
43.1 Mme MORF (Suisse) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons pour notre part lu le rapport du Directeur général dont il est question dans ce  débat à la lumière de quatre mots clés : anticipation, action, évaluation et concentration.
43.2 L’anticipation joue un rôle important dans une organisation qui a reçu pour mission d’être le “think-tank  mondial”. L’évolution qui se produit aujourd’hui dans le monde atteint une vitesse telle qu’il n’est pas toujours  facile de prévoir quelle sera dans quelques années l’actualité d’un thème relevant de la compétence de KJNESCO.  L’Organisation aura-t-elle rendu ce thème “visible” ? Aura-t-elle de cette façon gagné elle-même en visibilité ?
43.3 L’anticipation appelle la planification, mais celle-ci ne repose pas simplement sur une addition de voeux  et d’exigences. Planifier, c’est déterminer une stratégie et trouver un consensus permettant sa réalisation. Un  magnifique exemple d’anticipation nous a été offert, dans les années 50, par les premières actions pour la  sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel mondial.
43.4 Je reviens d’Ouzbékistan,- où j’ai participé le week-end dernier - comme représentante du Bureau du  Conseil exécutif - à une conférence consacrée à deux villes de 2.500 ans, Boukhara et Khiva - sites merveilleux  qui font partie du patrimoine culturel mondial et n’auraient pu être préservés sans l’aide de KJNESCO. Je connais  l’importance attachée dans ces régions aux routes de la soie - les routes terrestres qui conduisent de la Chine à  l’Europe à travers l’Asie centrale et les routes maritimes qui contournent la péninsule arabique - et je sais qu’une  très grande attention y est portée aux travaux scientifiques de KJNESCO. Je sais aussi combien les savants de ces  régions espèrent pouvoir participer à la poursuite de cette oeuvre essentielle.
43.5 Ces “routes” de I’UNESCO - qu’il s’agisse des routes de la soie, des routes du baroque ou d’autres routes,  à l’exception bien sûr des routes de l’esclave - ne racontent pas seulement l’histoire en termes de calendrier, elles  démontrent l’utilité des échanges de marchandises, de savoir-faire scientifique et de valeurs culturelles. Elles sont  un des symboles de I’UNESCO, car elles expriment de manière éclatante un de ses idéaux : favoriser le dialogue  culturel de manière pacifique.
43.6 Il y a des douzaines de définitions de la culture : des définitions larges comme celles du Conseil de  l’Europe ; des définitions étroites comme “culture is the software of the mind” ; des définitions poétiques comme  celle d’André Malraux - “la culture représente la totalité de toutes les formes de l’art, de l’amour et de la pensée  qui, au cours des millénaires, ont permis aux êtres humains d’être moins esclaves”. Je me souviens aussi de la  définition de Federico Mayor : “culture is as we behave everyday”. C’est pourquoi, comme membre de la  communauté des auteurs et autres créateurs, j’en appelle à Y’UNESCO anticipatrice” pour qu’elle s’engage encore  davantage en faveur des créateurs, aussi bien sous l’angle social qu’en matière de protection de leurs droits (avant  tout dans le domaine des autoroutes de l’information) ou d’approfondissement de la formation artistique, ou de  recherche scientifique sur des questions culturelles. Car la culture, c’est en fin de compte la somme des valeurs  matérielles et spirituelles.
43.7 Revenons aux mots clés qui ont éclairé notre lecture du rapport du Directeur général. De même que le  travail concernant les biens culturels est devenu un thème central pour KJNESCO, le “Programme solaire  mondial” et “l’éducation à distance” peuvent devenir des thèmes tout aussi importants, fertilisateurs et visibles.
4  On peut déjà les classer SOUS mon deuxième mot clé : action. Tout ce que le Secteur de l’éducation a fait en si peu  de temps dans ces deux domaines, le nombre de projets devenus réalité - tout cela est étonnant. Il est souhaitable  que, pour promouvoir la condition de la femme, on lance de même une action clé qui rende visibles les efforts de  I’UNESCO. 11 faudrait probablement commencer par accroître le nombre des femmes occupant des positions  importantes au sein de l’Organisation. Même au Conseil exécutif, nous n’étions que cinq femmes sur
58 représentants et il n’y a pas une seule femme parmi les présidents prévus pour les commissions de cette  Conférence générale. Le succès dans les domaines que j’ai mentionnés dépend de la continuité sans laquelle nos  activités ne peuvent devenir visibles dans le monde. A moins que nous ne voulions rester prudents et dire : la  continuité de nouvelles activités ne doit être garantie que pour une durée limitée ? Il y a des programmes et des  projets dont la nature est telle qu’ils ne peuvent se développer que lentement, comme ceux par exemple qui ont  trait à la culture de la paix, au suivi de la Conférence de Rio, ou - pour de tristes raisons budgétaires - le  programme MOST, sans oublier la promotion de la condition de la femme.
43.8 Tôt ou tard, le mot clé d’évaluation s’impose en tous lieux. Pendant trop longtemps, il n’a été qu’un terme  à la mode. Et pourtant il existe de longue date des méthodes qui permettent de faire des évaluations rapides,  pratiques et peu coûteuses. Et maintenant que nous pouvons enfin nous appuyer sur ces méthodes, qu’en faisons-  nous ? Souvent rien du tout. Elles pourraient cependant nous être d’un grand secours, non seulement en nous  permettant d’accroître l’efficacité des activités visées, mais aussi en nous offrant un merveilleux moyen d’accroître  la visibilité de l’action de I’UNESCO et d’assainir le budget. Ce serait le cas si le Directeur général, non content  d’analyser les résultats des évaluations, les annexait à son rapport sous forme d’une liste des programmes et  projets qui soit ont abouti à une impasse, soit ont été repris par d’autres organisations au niveau national ou local.  Après tout, les enfants que l’on a élevés doivent eux aussi, le moment venu, voler de leurs propres ailes. Procéder  de cette manière offrirait une possibilité d’alléger le budget avec logique. Simultanément, on pourrait ainsi  réaliser cette concentration des activités que tous ne cessent d’appeler ardemment de leurs voeux - concentration  dont résulterait en outre une meilleure visibilité du travail de I’UNESCO.
43.9 Une telle proposition paraîtra peut-être trop simple, mais le Directeur général - toujours ouvert à la  nouveauté - pourrait quand même tenter l’expérience, dans le sens des réformes déjà engagées et qui doivent se  poursuivre pour que I’UNESCO renforce sa position dans le système des Nations Unies.
43.10 Nos Etats attendent beaucoup de I’UNESCO. Le Directeur général a une lourde tâche à accomplir. II s’en  acquitte depuis dix ans avec un dévouement et un dynamisme remarquables, que la Suisse tient à saluer et dont  elle le félicite. Merci de votre attention, Monsieur le Président.
44. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci Madame. La délégation de la République islamique d’Iran m’a fait savoir qu’elle demande à  prendre la parole pour répondre à l’une des interventions de cet après-midi. Je la lui accorde durant une minute.
45. Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran):  Mr President, 1 would prefer not to refer to my request for the floor as a right of reply, but rather as a  point of clarification. The distinguished minister of our dear neighbour, Kuwait, in his speech referred to the  water body between Iran and her southem neighbours, not by its right and correct name. 1 would like to clarify  that according to the directions and officia1 documents of the United Nations and, of course, UNESCO, and also  according to many well documented historical facts, the right and correct name for the water body referred to is  the Persian Gulf. Thank you, Mr President.
46. Le PRESIDENT :  Le Koweït demande la parole. Non ? En ce cas, nous allons lever la séance. Auparavant, je demanderai  au Secrétaire de la Conférence générale s’il souhaite prendre la parole.
47. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rappeler que conformément à la décision que vous avez prise  ce matin sur recommandation du Bureau, la séance plénière commencera demain matin à 9 h.30 et non pas à
10 heures. La liste des orateurs inscrits pour demain matin est la suivante : Namibie, Burundi, Bélarus,  République de Corée, Finlande, Grèce, Philippines, Bangladesh, Népal, Roumanie, Malaisie, Chine, Autriche,  Norvège, Bolivie, Tunisie, Uruguay, Sainte-Lucie, Pérou, El Salvador, Rwanda, et enfin le Directeur général de  I’ALECSO. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
48.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous nous retrouverons demain matin à 9 h.30 précises pour la suite du débat  de politique générale. Le premier orateur inscrit est le chef de la délégation de la Namibie. Je vous rappelle que  nous recevrons demain à 18 heures la visite du Président de l’Autorité palestinienne, M. Yasser Arafat.
48.2 La séance est levée. Merci.  La séance est levée à 19 h.20  The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 19.20  %iCC~aHEïe 3aKpblBaeTGI B 19.20  SLdd V,Y’ aMJI j LJ+&ll u114, ”  &X?=l9 w20 c5M-s