Vingt-troisième séance plénière
10 novembre 1997 à 10 h.25  Président : M. PORTELLA (Brésil)  Twenty-third plenary meeting
10 November 1997 at 10.25 a.m.  President: Mr PORTELLA (Brazil)  Vigésima tercera sesion plenaria
633  ,._-._    ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuation)  OPTAHB3AHm PAEOTbI (nponon~enne)  (CL) JkYI +i  n-w~~( %)
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la vingt-troisième séance plénière de la 29e session de la  Conférence générale.
1.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, avant d’aborder la dernière phase des travaux de cette 29e session de la  Conférence générale, à savoir l’adoption des rapports des commissions et comités, je tiens à vous informer que la  cérémonie de nomination de Mme Kim Phuc en qualité d’ambassadeur de bonne volonté de I’UNESCO pour la  paix, qui devait se tenir ce matin, est reportée à 15 heures, Mme Kim Phuc n’ayant pu être parmi nous ce matin.  Par ailleurs, le rapport de la Commission administrative ne sera pas présenté cet après-midi, comme prévu, mais  demain matin.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION 1: RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION 1: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION 1: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  AOK.JIAa KOMMCMH!: PE3OJIIOL@IH 13 PEKOMEH~HBM  &+Jlg ul,lJdl :Jgs’I +JJl Jdl
2.1 Le PRESIDENT :  La présente séance sera donc consacrée à l’examen du rapport de la Commission 1.
2.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, je souhaiterais rappeler à la plénière que, dans l’esprit de la recommandation du  Conseil exécutif contenue dans le document 29 C/2, paragraphe 35, et suivant la procédure introduite à la
28e session de la Conférence générale, les rapports des commissions qui vous seront présentés seront examinés  globalement, c’est-à-dire que le Président de chaque commission et comité fera rapport sur l’ensemble des points  qui ont été examinés par cet organe, ainsi que sur l’ensemble des résolutions qu’il propose à l’approbation de la  plénière. Bien entendu, si une délégation souhaite soulever un point particulier, la plénière est le lieu adéquat  pour ce faire, car elle est l’autorité suprême de la Conférence générale. Mais les délégués ne pourront intervenir  qu’à la fin de l’exposé complet du rapport.
2.3 Je souhaiterais par ailleurs que toutes suggestions concernant des améliorations de style, d’expression ou  de langue dans le rapport, ou la correction de défauts de concordance entre les différentes versions linguistiques,  soient transmises par écrit au secrétaire de la commission concernée ou au secrétariat de la Conférence générale.  Elle seront toutes prises en considération et intégrées dans la version finale. Nous éviterons ainsi de longs et  fastidieux débats. Si vous estimez en revanche que la substance est en jeu, et qu’un point d’importance majeure  mérite d’être amendé, c’est bien au cours de la plénière que vous êtes invités à intervenir.
2.4 Après ces considérations préliminaires, nous pouvons à présent nous pencher sur l’examen du rapport de  la Commission 1. Les documents correspondants sont le document 29 Ci80 et son Add. et Corr. Monsieur le  Président de la Commission 1, vous avez la parole.
3.1 Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran), Chairperson of Commission 1:  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, representatives of the Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to present to this plenary meeting of the General  Conference, for adoption, the outcome of the work accomplished by Commission 1 during its deliberations. I  believe that the report before you in document 29 C/80 reflects accurately the decisions which were taken by the  Commission. During the adoption of the report by the Commission, several amendments were suggested which  have been incorporated in document 29 Cl80 Add. and Corr., which you have received this moming. I would  remind you that, for the purposes of approval of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1998-1999, and for the  processing of the draft resolutions, we followed the mode1 approved by the General Conference (29 CiINF.27).
23  In this connection you Will recall that the Commission, on a proposa1 by the delegation of Germany, established a  study group to consider procedures for the adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget, taking into account the  Executive Board’s recommendations on the Draft Programme and Budget for 1998-1999 as contained in
15 1 EX/Decision 5.1. The conclusions of this study group led to the approval of the above-mentioned model. My  presentation of this report, while not exhaustive, Will reflect the main lines of the discussions which took place in  our Commission and of the statements by a11 the participants who made our work possible.
3.2 1 shall start with the first item of our agenda, Part 1I.B - Information and dissemination services,  Chapter 1: Clearing House; Chapter 2: UNESCO Publishing Office; Chapter 3: UNESCU Courier Office; and  Chapter 4: Office of Public Information. The Commission stressed the fact that, with a view to optimizing the  widest possible dissemination of the documentation produced by UNESCO, the National Commissions should  play an integral part in the formulation of its information and communication strategies. Furthermore, exchanges  of information between the UNESCO Secretariat, the National Commissions and the fïeld offices and units  should be stepped up, and made more systematic. Stress was also laid on the fact that, while the Information and  dissemination services are taking on increasing importance, the resources allocated to them have declined as  compared with the previous biennium.
3.3 The usefulness and increasing role of the clearing house were mentioned, as was the importance of the  Internet site. Assistance was requested SO as to ensure that certain National Commissions are fïtted out and linked  to the Internet and cari communicate among themselves and UNESCO. It was also suggested that the Internet  information server be improved in order to afford the broadest possible access to the firll texts of UNESCO  documents. Some delegates expressed the hope that the National Commissions would be able to benefit from  assistance for the Internet connection under the Participation Programme. Interestingly enough, later on in our  debate, draft resolution 29 CDR. 100 addressed this very issue in a somewhat different manner but with the same  intent.
3.4 Some delegations expressed their support for the Analysis and Forecasting Unit, and welcomed in  particular the launching of the ‘Twenty-first century talks’ and the organization of the Conference on the ethics of  the future held in Rio de Janeiro, as well as the echoes from which these activities have benefited in the media.
3.5 Some speakers drew attention to the fact that anticipation and future-oriented activities are essentially  programme activities that should be presented in a different chapter of the C/5 document. It was felt that the  current difficulty in identifying this programme should be remedied in document 29 C/5 Approved. Some  speakers expressed their wish that joint projects between the Analysis and Forecasting Unit and the National  Commissions be elaborated and implemented.
3.6 With regard to the UNESCO Publishing Office, the Commission expressed its appreciation for the work  accomplished by UNESCO in this field. The definition of an on-line electronic publishing policy was welcomed,  although some reservations were voiced conceming the unduly te&mological approach, which presents  difficulties for some countries whose technologies are not sufficiently developed. It was also suggested that book  editorial policy should attach more consistent attention to UNESCO’s priority programmes. In this connection,  the advisability of adopting an editorial policy geared to Young people was stressed.
3.7 It was noted that the prices of UNESCO publications are too high compared with the purchasing power  in some countries. This is why lower-cost publications, which could be produced locally and chosen thanks to the  assistance of the National Commissions, were highly recommended. The question of linguistic pluralism in  UNESCO’s publications was raised, with heavy stress being laid on the necessity of publications in both Arabie  and Portuguese. Some speakers emphasized the importance of the rationalization and improvement of free  distribution.
3.8 As regards the UNESCO Courier Office, the Commission recognized that the ongoing reform of the  Courier format is moving in the right direction and took a positive stance conceming the improvement of synergy  and Go-ordination between the UNESCO Courier and UNESCO Sources. The new presentation of the UNESCO  Courier should involve a more attractive content, a new layout and a more joumalistic style with the aim of  achieving a larger circulation. Several delegates, while stressing the need to relaunch the Courier, wished to  know more about the main lines of that operation, which is essentially aimed at attracting a younger readership  and obtaining more paying subscribers. As for the content of the Courier, the Commission noted that, despite it  being an instrument of international intellectual co-operation, the choice of authors appeared to be too limited. It  was also felt that the articles should caver a wider range of regions and countries.  .
3.9 The debate on the Office of Public Information (OPI) focused around the following themes: tïrst the  importance of the Office on which UNESCO’s image and the understanding of its message largely depend;  second, the need for closer co-operation with National Commissions, true ‘complementary vectors’ for the  transmission of information aimed at giving greater visibility to UNESCO’s action; third, the advisability of  drafting a document on the Organization’s information and communication policy and of involving National  Commissions in the fiaming of that policy; fomth, the more rapid dissemination of press communiqués and press  kits to National Commissions; fifth, the updating of basic information on UNESCO; and finally, the use of new  communication technologies, in particular the Internet.
3.10 Conceming the development of a coherent UNESCO publications and public information policy, some  delegations regretted that the relevant resolution of the General Conference (28 CiResolution 11.5) was not yet  lülly implemented, and reaffirmed the usetûlness of extemal evaluation.
3.11 The Commission then tumed to the examination of Part III - Support for Programme Execution,  Chapter 1: Bureau of Extemal Relations. The discussion focused essentially on the National Commissions, which  are seen as the essential and privileged partners for UNESCO’s action in its Member States. Let me single out the  most signitïcant points on which the debate focused.
3.12 First: recognition of the Will for renewal and for the establishment of a real National  CommissionsLJNESCO partnership, both at and away from Headquarters. The new modalities of operation, and  the initiatives proposed in document 29 C/5 were supported and should make it possible to give increased  responsibility to National Commissions and upgrade the role they are called upon to play.
3.13 Next: the establishment of a Standing Committee of Secretaries-General of National Commissions and  members of the Secretariat, both at and away from Headquarters. The proposa1 conceming the establishment of  the Standing Committee was welcomed by the delegates who spoke on the matter. For the most part, the  Commission was gratified by the setting up of this Standing Committee, while at the same time expressing the  wish for a discussion to be carried out by the National Commissions on its terms of reference, composition,  tûnding, and modalities of functioning, during their informa1 meetings at the General Conference and during their  consultations on document 30 C/5. It is important that a11 the partners concemed should be in agreement with  each other in order that the Committee may be firmly based and tûnction decisively. In this respect, several draft  resolutions approved by the Commission already entrust the Standing Committee with the study of a number of  issues that cal1 for interregional reflection and a pragmatic approach to their solution.
3.14 Thirdly: strengthening of the managerial and executive capacities of National Commissions. Certain  delegates mentioned the importance of what is necessarily a shared responsibility of Member States and the  Secretariat to ensure the smooth operation of National Commissions. The majority of speakers spoke in favour of  strengthening the role of National Commissions (financial and instimtional resources), in particular within the  framework of the implementation of the Organization’s programme. Moreover, the Commission underlined the  need to strengthen the Division for Relations with National Commissions and UNESCO Clubs, Centres and  Associations. Certain delegates stressed the need to support the National Commissions in developing countries  and to help them acquire and maintain computer equipment and provide the necessary training in its use. A draft  resolution was approved along these lines. The importance of training for the staff of National Commissions and  the imtovative ways and means of organizing it, were ratifïed and supported.
3.15 Fourthly: strengthening of the role of National Commissions as hubs of the Organization. Certain  delegates, recalling the unique character of National Commissions for UNESCO within the United Nations  system, regretted that the ml1 potential of this instrument has not yet been utilized. Al1 were in favour of  strengthening the role of National Commissions and of closer co-operation with field offices and units. In this  connection there was general concem to ensure greater complementarity between National Commissions and  tïeld offices. An appeal was made to the Secretariat to see that National Commissions were consulted to a greater  extent and informed in advance about any visit or action envisaged by UNESCO in their countries, SO that their  role as the hubs of the Organization might be strengthened.
3.16 The Commission recalled 28 C/Resolution 13.1 adopted by the General Conference at its 28th session,  conceming the tünding of regional and subregional consultations of National Commissions on the preparation of  the Medium-Term Strategy (C/4) and the Draft Programme and Budget (C/5)
3.17 Fifth: co-operation with UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations. The Commission was unanimous in  its recognition of the need to strengthen the role of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations, which give high  visibility to UNESCO’s action on the ground. The Commission approved a draft resolution (29 CDR. 144) thus
23  taking an important step forward towards institutionalizing and professionalizing relations between UNESCO  Clubs, Centres and Associations and the National Commissions.
3.18 Sixth: new partnerships. Many delegations made favourable commet-ns on the new partnerships with  civil society, but stressed that such relationships should be established in active liaison with the National  Commissions.
3.19 And seventh: concretizing of interregional co-operation among National Commissions. The desire for a  true interregional co-operation and the creation of the necessary mechanisms for such co-operation was strongly  emphasized. TO that end, Commission 1 recommended the creation of a computerized information and  communication network which the National Commissions of Latin America and the Caribbean are expected to set  up, and that might also provide inspiration for other regions.
3.20 The Commission then went on to consider the implementation of decentralization. A broad consensus  emerged on both the principle and the importance of decentralization. While recognizing that the process had  already borne fruit, the Commission stressed the need to strengthen complementarity and synergy among  National Commissions, field offices and field units, and other organizations of the United Nations system.  UNESCO should draw on the expertise and potential of National Commissions in the execution of its  programmes and projects. The inadequate human and fmancial resources of certain Regional Offices, which are  not always able to meet the needs of Member States, was underscored. Other delegations called for the  strengthening of existing Regional Offices rather than the creation of small new units, which threaten to spread  the Organization’s action too thinly. The Commission also recommended continuous evaluation of the fïeld  offices’ action and results.
3.21 Finally, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt a draft resolution aimed at  establishing a standard-setting framework setting guidelines and criteria for a rational implementation of  decentralization.
3.22 With regard to the ‘Country profiles’, while the principle of that exercise was appreciated, certain  countries expressed the wish that that approach should be refined through the requisite corrections and updating,  in close co-operation with Member States (in particular with Permanent Delegations to UNESCO and National  Commissions) and field offices.
3.23 Now 1 move on to Part III, Chapters 2 and 3 conceming the Bureau for Relations with Extrabudgetary  Funding Sources and the Bureau of Conferences, Languages and Documents. With regard to the Bureau for  Relations with Extrabudgetary Funding Sources, the Commission stressed the importance to be attached to the  mobilization of extrabudgetary funds, and congratulated the Secretariat on the efforts made to fil1 the gap  between the resources of the regular programme and the increasingly substantial requests addressed to the  Organization. Stress was laid on the need for programme activities with extrabudgetary funding to be inspired by  and, wherever possible, complementary to UNESCO? regular programme activities. With respect to partners  from the private sector, many delegates emphasized the need for transparency in the establishment of relations  with them. Other speakers observed that projects funded Ii-om extrabudgetary sources strengthened UNESCO’s  visibility on the ground. Field offices and units and the National Commissions should receive training in such  procedures in order to enhance their capacities as fund-raisers.
3.24 The main points to emerge from the debate on the Bureau of Conferences, Languages and Documents  were as follows: First, there was general satisfaction with the way in which the Bureau had discharged -  sometimes under difficult circumstances - its heavy workload; secondly, there was a wish to see Iürther  reductions in the volume of documentation; thirdly, a fear that a reduction in the operating expenses of the  Bureau would be accompanied by a decline in the quality of the documents; fourthly, a hope that the new  technologies would not affect the quality of the documents, or the balance in the use of languages; and, fïnally,  that it would be desirable to create mutual understanding among Member States that would enable documents to  be circulated in different national languages SO as to be able to reach the peoples of the countries concemed.
3.25 In relation to its consideration of item 7.1: Report by the Director-General on the changes in the  classification of international organizations admitted to the various types of relations with UNESCO, and  questions related thereto, and of item 7.2: Revision of the Directives conceming UNESCO’s relations with  foundations and similar institutions, the Commission congratulated the Secretariat on the important work carried  out in the reclassitïcation of NGOs and hoped that the new arrangements for the NGO Conference and the  Committee for liaison with the Secretariat would produce the expected results. Attention was drawn to the  transitional nature of the current period, as well as to the importance of co-operation based on merit and
637    transparency. The hope was also expressed that the NGO Committee of the Executive Board be strengthened.  Two NGOs also took part in this debate.
3.26 1 now tum to item 8.2: Definition of the regions with a view to the implementation of activities of a  regional nature. The Commission recommended that the General Conference include the United Kingdom of  Great Britain and Northem Ireland in the Europe region and the Republic of Nauru and Macau (as an Associate  Member) in the Asia and the Pacifie region, for the pur-poses of their participation in the activities of the  programme of the Organization.
3.27 The Commission devoted three working sessions to consideration of item 8.1: Recommendations of the  Working Group on the structure and fùnction of the General Conference. The Commission unanimously  recognized the importance of the recommendations of the Working Group, in particular those conceming the  method of preparing the C/5 document. The delegates a11 expressed satisfaction with the work of the Group and  the outstanding way in which it had carried out its task, which was to recommend the most effective means of  restoring to the General Conference its initial function as an authentic decision-making body.
3.28 The Commission took note of the fact that, given the importance of the question, certain  recommendations formulated by the Working Group had been applied during this session of the General  Conference. In addition, the Commission noted with satisfaction the improvements made in recent years in the  preparation of the C/5 document and reiterated the importance of prior consultations with and among National  Commissions, Member States and the Secretariat. Some delegates suggested that, with a view to effecting further  improvements in the C/5 document, it should set out options on the basis of which Member States could make  choices. It was unanimously agreed that the introduction of new procedures for processing draft resolutions had  already brought about an improvement in the quality and processing of the DRs. There was a positive response to  the new approach that treated the General Conference not only as the final stage of the decision-making process  on the Draft Programme and Budget of the biennium about to begin but also as the first stage in devising the  main directions and priorities of the Draft Programme and Budget for the following biennium. The Commission  recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution proposed in document 29 C/27 Add. 1,  which contained the recommendations of the Working Group on the structure and function of the General  Conference. Finally, the Commission also recommended that the General Conference should adopt draft  resolution 29 C/COM.I/DR.2 conceming the methods of work of the Executive Board.
3.29 In the preliminary debate on document 30 C/5, the Commission viewed the General Conference as a  deliberative body able to hold discussions that looked towards the future. The debate, intended to set out the  main lines of emphasis that should guide the future Programme and Budget for 2000-200 1, was wide-ranging and  lively. Acting on my proposal, the debate was divided into two parts: first of ah, the delegates made general  observations on this matter and then they followed on with an informa1 discussion. The following proposals were  formulated to be taken into account during the consultation on the preparation of draft document 30 C/5. First,  the need for effective implementation of the recommendations of the Working Group on the structure and  lünction of the General Conference. Second, the structure and presentation of the C/5 document: recognizing the  improvements in the presentation of the C/5 document, the Commission underscored the need to continue along  this path which highlights more effectively the main lines of action as well as budgetary resources and the  corresponding expenses. Document 30 C/5 should also clearly indicate the main areas of co-operation envisaged  between UNESCO and the other institutions within the United Nations system. Third, co-operation with National  Commissions: capacity-building and training of personnel, co-operation among National Commissions at the  regional and interregional levels as well as development of partnerships was stressed; the importance of  subregional, regional and interregional consultations required for the effective participation by National  Commissions in the preparation of the programme was highlighted. Fourth, information and dissemination  services: the need to improve the visibility and consistency of activities relating to public information and the  dissemination of a11 the information that UNESCO possesses in its various tïelds of competence; the need to  develop a consistent and integrated strategy regarding information, which should be more creative and more  closely related to the needs of different target audiences, drawing inspiration, for example, from the recent United  Nations report entitled ‘Global Vision, Local Voice’.
3.30 Lastly, better identification of priorities and better concentration of activities: it was stressed that the  programme needed to be more compact; adoption of the principle of ‘Do less but do it bette? by limiting  activities to a few large areas such as: UNESCO’s ethical mission; transdisciplinarity, especially within the  context of globalization; strengthening the capacity of National Commissions and establishing a network among  National Commissions; continuing training for staff of National Commissions as well as for National Professional  Officers and the Secretariat; decentralization - better co-operation between UNESCO tïeld offices and National  Commissions to achieve greater complementarity; support for the four priority groups - Priority Africa, women,
23  youth and the least developed countries; and finally strengthening of the Division of Relations with National  Commissions and UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations.
3.31 During its last meeting the Commission examined item 4.8: Proposals by Member States for the  celebration of anniversaries in 1998-1999. As you know, subparagraph (xxxix) of the list of armiversaries  contained in document 29 Cl48 was the subject of long and very intense negotiations, which were successful  since the Commission fmally reached an agreement. First, 1 suggested changing the wording of the  aforementioned subparagraph ‘seven-hundredth anniversary of the foundation of the Ottoman Empire’ into  ‘seven-hundredth anniversary of the begimting of the formation of Ottoman cultural and scientific heritage and its  multinational aspects’. Afier proposing this change, 1 explained that with the new formulation, the Commission  might not need to proceed with the examination of 29 C/COM.I/DR.S, which was submitted by Armenia.  Therefore, to consult with the Armenian delegate, the meeting was suspended for a few minutes. After this  consultation the meeting resumed without the presence of the Armenian delegation and 1 sought a consensus on  the reworded subparagraph, which was accepted by the Commission. 1 then informed the Commission that the  Armenian delegation had agreed to withdraw 29 C/COM.I/DR.S. The Commission thereafter adopted the  resolution as a whole contained in document 29 C/48, as amended. At this stage, the Armenian delegate retumed  to the room and made a statement expressing his strong opposition to UNESCO’s association with any events  related to the Ottoman period and requested that the essence of his statement be included in my report, which 1  believe is now done. Finally, the Commission proceeded with the adoption of its report as amended and the  modifications proposed are included in document 29 C/80 Add. and Con-.
3.32 Mr President, 1 have now finished the presentation of the report of Commission 1. Thank you very much.
4. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, et je vous félicite ainsi que votre équipe pour le travail  accompli. Je sais combien vous avez pris à coeur votre tâche et combien vous vous êtes personnellement investi  dans l’élaboration de ce rapport. Je rappelle aux honorables délégués que le rapport contenu dans les documents
29 C/80 et 29 C/80 Add. et COIT. est soumis a leur examen dans son ensemble. Quelqu’un souhaite-t-il prendre la  parole ? Je donne la parole au délégué de l’Allemagne.
5.1 Mr SCHGFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. Germany does not have any amendment to the printed documents before us,  but wishes to express appreciation of the manner in which Ambassador Jalali, Chairperson of Commission 1,  handled the extremely difficult issue of decision-making on the Draft Programme and Budget. He established a  working group and submitted their proposa1 to the General Committee, and the result was the mode1 report for  decisions on document 29 C/5 which the General Committee made obligatory for a11 programme commissions  and which was printed as document 29 CKNF.27. Consequently, the General Conference was able to approve, for  the fïrst time, the Programme and Budget in its entirety, as recommended by the Executive Board.
5.2 It is important to note in this context that there are two specific innovations. First, the recommendations  submitted by the Executive Board (29 C/6), together with the Draft Programme and Budget were not only  discussed, but approved, as appropriate, by the General Conference. Second, the oral reports by the Chairpersons  of Programme Commissions, reflecting the debate among Member States, have found their place in the decision-  making procedure. Both the recommendations by the Executive Board and the oral reports by the Chairpersons,  which Will be printed in the Verbatim records of our meeting in the plenary, are henceforth important guidelines  for the Secretariat in the process of transforming the Draft into the Approved Programme and Budget, together  with a11 the draft resolutions adopted.
5.3 Germany feels that these innovations, which do not involve bureaucratie and costly procedures, are very  important steps in the process of restoring to the General Conference its true decision- and policy-making  functions in line with the recommendations by the Reform Committee chaired by the former President of the  General Conference, Mr Torben Krogh, to whom we would like to pay tribute on this occasion. Thank you.
6. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole à la déléguée du Maroc.
(7) Mme TABET (Maroc) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais seulement attirer l’attention de la Conference genérale sur le  fait qu’au cours du débat sur le rapport de la Commission 1, samedi dernier, deux Etats en particulier ont proposé de  modifier le paragraphe 36. Ils ont proposé d’ajouter une phrase qui insisterait sur l’application de la résolution 13.1  adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa 28e session. Cependant, cet amendement a été présenté dans la  precipitation et nous n’avons donc pas pu l’examiner attentivement, d’autant plus que cet amendement concernait le  renforcement de la Division des relations avec les commissions nationales et les associations, centres et clubs  UNESCO. Mais en examinant la question de plus près, nous nous sommes rendu compte que I’amendement  proposé est lié au Programme de participation. Etant donne que le Programme de participation a fait l’objet d’un  débat plus approfondi a la Commission V, nous proposons de nouveau que cet amendement soit retiré du rapport  de la Commission 1 et que la question du Programme de participation continue de relever de la compétence de la  Commission V, afin d’éviter de nous trouver dans une situation où les commissions adopteraient des textes  contradictoires. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
8. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je dorme la parole au Président de la Commission 1.
9. Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran), Chairperson of Commission 1:  Thank you, Mr President. As 1 recall, some delegates were against; 1 followed what was decided on the  whole.
10. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué du Burundi.
11. M. MISAGO (Burundi) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je tiens à exprimer mon soutien à la déléguée du Maroc qui m’a  précédé à la tribune car j’estime aussi que cet amendement pourrait porter préjudice au Programme de  participation qui a été examiné comme il convenait par la Commission V. Je recommande à mon tour que cet  amendement soit retiré et que, éventuellement, il soit étudié par la Commission V dont le rapport sera présenté  demain. Je vous remercie.
12. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué du Canada.
13. M. PATENAUDE (Canada) :  Merci, Monsieur le President. Cet amendement a été présenté par nous au moment de l’adoption du  rapport de la Commission 1. Le but de cet amendement, Monsieur le Président, est de rappeler une résolution qui  a été adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa 28e session, il y a deux ans, et dans laquelle les Etats membres  demandaient que des crédits soient transférés du Programme de participation au budget de la Division des  commissions nationales aux tins du financement des consultations des commissions nationales destinées à  préparer les documents C/4 et C/5. C’est une décision qui est déjà prise et qui fait donc partie, si je puis dire, du  patrimoine décisionnel de I’UNESCO. Nous ne faisons ici que nous y référer, sans la remettre en question dans le  cadre du rapport de la Commission 1. Je ne vois pas en quoi un tel rappel peut faire problème. Si nous le jugeons  à propos, nous pouvons aussi bien rappeler cette décision dans le rapport de la Commission V. Quoi qu’il en soit,  cette décision existe et ne peut être remise en question dans le présent contexte. Par conséquent, Monsieur le  Président, je demande que cet amendement soit maintenu. Merci beaucoup.
14. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole au délegué de l’Allemagne.
15. Mr SCHGFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. Germany fully supports the point of view expressed by Canada, and maybe  the Chairperson of our Commission could get in touch with the Chairperson of Commission V. 1 do not see why  the same Member States sitting in two different commissions would not agree with the decision already taken at  the last General Conference, which is still pertinent and must be implemented. 1 think that when there is any
23  disagreement between the same Member States sitting in two commissions, which Germany would not expect,  then it would be necessary to discuss it in the General Committee, but 1 do not see any need to withdraw the  decision taken by Commission 1. Thank you.
16. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole au délégué du Burundi.
17. M. MISAGO (Burundi) :  Merci une nouvelle fois, Monsieur le Président. Je ne pense pas qu’un quelconque débat soit rouvert  concernant la résolution 28 C113.1, mais il me semble que tout ce qui touche au document 29 C/5 reléve plus de  la 29e session de la Conférence générale que de la précédente. Cela, c’est une interprétation toute personnelle.  Toutefois, lorsqu’il y a un risque de conflit entre les compétences des commissions, je crois que c’est à la plénière  ici réunie de le relever et d’y mettre bon ordre. Par ailleurs, si je relis rapidement la résolution 28 C/l 3.1, je vois  qu’elle “prie le Directeur général de transférer le fmancement des consultations” - à mon sens, transférer signifie  prélever. Je peux me tromper, mais pour revenir à ce que je disais tout à l’heure, il ne me paraît pas très opportun  d’adopter un tel amendement à la P&ente session. Je vous remercie.
18. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Il semble que le retrait de cet amendement ne fasse pas l’unanimité. Je demande au  Maroc de préciser de nouveau quelle est sa position.
(19) Mme TABET (Maroc) (traduit de l’arabe) : Le Maroc considére qu’il est nkcessaire de retirer cet amendement du rapport de la Commission 1, vu que  la question du Programme de participation relève de la compétence de la Commission V et que les commissions  risqueraient d’adopter des positions contradictoires, outre que la Commission V pourrait se pencher sur la  résolution 28 (X3.1 et adopter une position différente de celle qui ressort de cette résolution. En conséquence, j   crois que la logique impose le retrait de cet amendement du rapport de la Commission etqu’il faut laisser à la  Commission V le soin de dkbattre de cette question. Merci.
20. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne de nouveau la parole au Président de la Commission.
21. Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran), Chairperson of Commission 1:  Thank you, Mr President. 1 think it is a decision for the plenary, but what we have reported here is the  decision made in Commission 1. 1 cari follow the suggestion made by the distinguished delegate of Germany, to  get in touch with the Chairperson of Commission V in order to fïnd a final way of adopting this proposal. But 1  Will leave the decision to the plenary: it is as you decide. Thank you.
22. Le PRESIDENT :  Je consulte la Conférence sur la possibilité d’une entente entre le Président de la Commission 1 et le  Président de la Commission V. Le délégué du Yémen a la parole.
(23) M. ZAID (Yémen) (traduit de l’arabe) : Merci, Monsieur le Président. Puisque la question concerne deux commissions, il serait logique que les  deux commissions e consultent pour parvenir à une solution conforme aux voeux des Etats qui en font partie.  Merci.
24. Le PRESIDENT :  C’est précisément ce que je viens de suggérer. Le délégué du Bénin demande la parole.
25. M. MONS1 (Bénin) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Bénin est aussi d’avis qu’il faudrait une consultation entre les  présidents des deux commissions car la question du Programme de participation a fait l’objet d’un large débat au  sein de la Commission V qui s’est donc aussi prononcée à ce sujet et il ne serait pas indiqué que la Conférence  plénière prenne une décision contraire. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Je donne la parole au délégué du Canada.
27. M. PATENAUDE (Canada) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous sommes très étonnés de ce débat, car il ne s’agit pas d’un  amendement de dernière minute. Nous en avons discuté au sein de la Commission 1 et, je le rkpète, il s’agit  simplement de faire référence à une décision déjà prise. La raison pour laquelle nous avons insisté pour que  mention en soit faite dans le rapport, c’est que nous en avons parlé au moment de la discussion sur le document
30 C/5. Plusieurs Etats membres s’y sont référés avec insistance, et c’est pourquoi nous voudrions que cela figure  dans le rapport de la Commission 1. Cela dit, peut-être pourrions-nous renvoyer cette question à la réunion  conjointe des commissions de programme. C’est une suggestion. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
28. Le PRESIDENT :  La déléguée de l’Egypte a la parole.
(29) Mme RAMADAN (Egypte) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Monsieur le Président, l’Egypte appuie la proposition du Président de la Commission 1 de se consulter  avec le Président de la Commission V à ce sujet. Merci.
30.1 Le PRESIDENT :  J’aimerais auparavant soumettre le rapport de la Commission à la plénière et demander ensuite qu’il soit  procédé à ce dialogue. Je soumets donc l’ensemble du rapport à l’approbation de la plénihe. S’il n’y a pas  d’abjections, je considérerai le rapport comme adopté.
30.2 Le délégué de l’Italie demande la parole.
31. M. LEO (Italie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. J’aurais une observation à formuler à propos d’un autre aspect du rapport  avant que celui-ci soit adopté par la Conférence plénière. Il y a un point qu’il convient de préciser. Je me réfère à  la partie du rapport qui modifie certaines dispositions, en particulier les dispositions régissant la procédure  d’élection d’Etats membres au Conseil exkutif. Bien que n’ayant pour ma part pas d’opinion particulière à ce  sujet, je voudrais interroger le Président de la Commission 1 et attirer l’attention de la plénière sur le fait que nous  sommes en train d’approuver une modification du Règlement peut-être d’ordre mineur, mais qui a son  importance : l’article 16 actuel prévoit que le dépouillement a lieu en présence de toutes les délégations qui  désirent y assister. Dans le nouveau Règlement, cette disposition disparaît. Il importerait que la Conférence  plénière en soit consciente. Si elle est d’accord, évidemment, je ne formulerai pas d’abjections. Je voudrais  simplement que la décision soit prise en connaissance de cause. Et si vous me le permettez, Monsieur le  Président, je voudrais saisir l’occasion pour poser par votre entremise une question au Secrétariat. L’article 25 du  Règlement actuel prévoit que, après la proclamation des résultats du scrutin, les bulletins de vote sont détruits en  présence des scrutateurs. Je voudrais savoir si les bulletins de vote relatifs à la dernière élection de membres du  Conseil exécutif ont déjà été détruits, et, si oui, si cette destruction a été faite conformément à l’article 25, c’est-à-  dire en présence des scrutateurs. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
32. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole au Secrétaire.
33. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Ce que vient de relever le délégué de l’Italie à propos de la destruction des  bulletins de vote est tout à fait exact. Depuis plusieurs sessions -je ne saurais dire exactement combien - l’usage a  été en effet de détruire les bulletins de vote aussitôt après le scrutin, mais non en présence des scrutateurs tout  simplement parce qu’il a toujours &é difficile de trouver des scrutateurs qui acceptent de rester pour assister à
23  cette destruction. L’usage s’est donc instauré depuis plusieurs sessions de procéder à la destruction des bulletins  en l’absence des scrutateurs.
34.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Secrétaire. Je propose maintenant à la plénière de prendre note du rapport de la  Commission 1 dans son ensemble et je recommande que le point soulevé par le Maroc fasse l’objet de  consultations. Si la plénière est d’accord avec cette proposition, nous pourrions prendre note du rapport et  approuver les résolutions qui y figurent.
34.2 Il en est ainsi décidé I
35.1  Le Président de la Commission 1 souhaite-t-il ajouter quelque chose ?  Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran), Chairperson of Commission 1:  Thank you, Mr President. 1 would like to take this opporhmity to extend once again my sincere thanks to  a11 those who participated in the Commission’s work in a spirit of co-operation and goodwill. My thanks go also  to a11 the members of the Bureau of the Commission for their collaboration as well as to the representatives of tbe  Director-General and other members of the UNESCO Secretariat for their guidance and assistance in our work. 1  should like also to thank the team of room clerks, the interpretation services and a11 the committed people  working behind the scenes for their continuous support. 1 am grateful, too, for the very useful and effective help  which 1 received from the Vice-Chairpersons of Commission 1. And finally, 1 am particularly grateful to the  secretariat of the Commission, whose staff performed a difficult and demanding task to the very last minute.
35.2 As a newcomer to the sophisticated world of UNESCO, 1 leamed a lot during my work in Commission 1.  For this 1 am gratelùl. Beyond a11 the differences expressed during the debates, 1 Will recall a11 the genuine efforts  made to reach common goals as well as the new pattems of co-operation manifested which symbolize for me, at  least, the moral and intellectual solidarity of Commission 1. 1 know that this is just a beginning. We Will meet  again. Thank you very much for your patience and co-operation.
36. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie. La séance est levée. Nous nous retrouverons cet après-midi à 15 heures.  La séance est levée à 11 h.30  The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 11.30  %CC~ZiHHe 3EiKpbIB?-ieTC5l B 11.30  +JI & \\,y* “LLJI j L&u &,  -%x5= 11 Et30 sm-