Dix-huitième séance plénière
31 octobre 1997 ê 16 h.30  Président : M. RAJ JHA (Népal)  ,  l Eighteenth plenary meeting
31 OKTR~PR 1997 r.B 16.30  IIpencenaTem: T-H PAW ,?JXXA (Henan)
571    RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE SUR LE POINT 1.3 : RAPPORT DU DIRECTEUR  GENERAL SUR LES COMMUNICATIONS RECUES DES ETATS MEMBRES INVOQUANT LES  DISPOSITIONS DE L’ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPHE 8 (c), DE L’ACTE CONSTITUTIF (suite) :  RECOMMANDATION DU BUREAU  REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON ITEM 1.3 - REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-  GENERAL ON COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED FROM MEMBER STATES INVOKING THE  PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPH S(c), OF THE CONSTITUTION (continued):  RECOMMENDATION BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA SOBRE EL PUNTO 1.3: INFORME DEL DIRECTOR  GENERAL SOBRE LAS COMUNICACIONES RECIBIDAS DE LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS EN LAS QUE  SE INVOCA LO DISPUESTO EN EL ARTICULO IV.C, PARRAFO 8, APARTADO c) DE LA  CONSTITUCION (continuation): RECOMENDACION DE LA MESA  AOKJIAJI KOMMCCMM II0 AfiMMHMCTPATHBHbIM BOHPOCAM HO HYHKTY 1.3 -  “AOKJIAJI l-EHEPAJIbHOFO ,@IPEKTOPA 0 COOEIIJEHWIX, IIOJIYrIEHHbIX OT I-OCYAAPCTB -  WIEHOB B CBII3M C IIOJIO~EHMJIMM IIYHKTA 8 (C) CTATbM 1V.C YCTABA” (npononxemre):  PEKOMEHAAHMJl IIPE3H,@IYMA TEHEPAJIbHOfi KOH0EPEHL&IM  ,u&I UI;; 2’s ddl J,d ia O+l$ J;L.Q ,y yWI +Il &i : \,Y &+Il ,y &,I+ L+UI *jii  +üiil i+dJy : (@) “~La &ll i$d (p) L&u DJUI ibo (e) A O&N  ~ï&%5RQ#‘fJJïW’;.3~)Si8-- >kl7=~XfF~~liElB!SI <iHR%)) %IV.C %+68(c) i%%&@J3fSiKJ#f%~
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a quorum. The meeting Will be suspended for five minutes.  (The meeting is suspended for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 declare open the 18th plenary meeting. The only item we have to examine today  concerns the voting rights at the 29th session of the General Conference. According to your decision of yesterday  afternoon, this item was examined this moming in the General Committee, where different views were expressed.
1 would now like to submit these to the plenary, as 1 have been requested to do by the General Committee.
1.3 1 shaI1 summarize the proposals of the General Committee: some Member States reaffirmed their  attachment to the rules adopted at the 28th session of the General Conference but expressed their wish to take  into account the difficult situation of some Member States. The Chairperson of the Executive Board proposed a  text and read it out to the General Committee. This text has been distributed to you. FoIIowing the proposa1 made  by the Chairperson of the Executive Board, the General Committee recommended that the deadline for the  submission of a written communication by a Member State invoking exceptional circumstances be extended to  Monday, 3 November 1997, 3 p.m. Consequently, the General Committee also asked the Secretariat to inform the  delegations of the Member States concerned of these new conditions.
1.4 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Norway.
2.1 MS EIDE (Norway):  Thank you, Mr President. Norway is not a member of the General Committee. It was represented in this  room last night and was of course informed that efforts would be made to review the matter and possibly to reach  a consensus. First, Mr President, 1 do not consider it wise - nor even serious - of the goveming bodies of  UNESCO to ca11 a meeting by flashing that information on the television screens outside. Many delegates, 1 am  sure, are quite unaware of the existence of this meeting on a topic which we a11 agree is a very serious one for the  Organization, one by which the seriousness, consistency and rigour of UNESCO, and its goveming organs in  particular, Will to some extent be judged. My tïrst request, Mr President, is that this meeting be suspended. If my  request is not granted and while we wait for the decision to be circulated, would you allow me to develop my  argument? Thank you, Sir.
2.2 1 think we a11 empathize with the Member States who find themselves in difficulties regarding payments.  However, not only has this matter been discussed at the Iast three General Conferences at least, it is being  discussed by every organ of the United Nations system, not least in the General Assembly. The system is a family  of organizations and calls for some consistency throughout. 1 therefore do not believe that there is a single
18  Member State anywhere that is not aware of its duty to pay; there are no grounds for not submitting the letter of  communication.
2.3 1 assume that everyone in this room, everyone in UNESCO’s various meeting rooms, round tables and  SO on, is very committed to this Organization - we constantly hear statements to that effect - and they are  embarrassed, as we a11 are, by the situation in which some Member States fïnd themselves. 1 do believe, however,  that we would be doing these Member States, as well as the Organization, a service if we now found the courage  to say, ‘If you do not pay, you lose your right to vote’. These unfortunate Member States could then retum to  their ministries of finance and say: ‘See, this is what happened at UNESCO’, and they would never again place  themselves and the Organization in such a predicament. Rather than doing the Member States in question a  disservice, we would be doing them a service by equipping them with this forcefùl argument which they cari use  at home. Thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of the Russian Federation.
4. r-HErO~KMH(POCCu~CKa~~enepa~u~):  CnacH6o, r-H r&W@ZnaTenb. &IarOnapIO Bac 3a Te pa3WICHeHUR, KOTOpbIe 6bInuHaHbI IIOIIOBOny  ceromcnuaero yTpeHHer0 3aceaaHwr rIpesunuyMa, ~0 TO nu YTO-TO B nepeBone 6bIno He TaK, ~0nuMoe  IIpenCTaBneHHe 0 TOM, 0 =IeM nOrOBOpunCR npeJunr?yM, HeCKOnbKO UHOe, WM y Bac.YMewc CnO~UnOCb  BneSaTneHne, STO llpe3nnuyM norosopuncR nepenaTb 3TOT BOIIpOC na Hoaoe paccMoTpem+e  AnMUHuCTpaTuBHOü KOMUCCUM rt?HepWbHOfi KOH@epeHWlu B CB5l3U C HeKOTOpbIMU nOnOnHuTiYIbHbIMU
06CTORTenbCTBaMu, KOTOpbIe BOSHUKJW KaK B XOne 3aCeAaHWJ npeJunUyMa, TaK H B CBR3uC3aflBneHWIMu  HeKOTOpbIX rOCyAapCTB-YneHOB. npn 3~0~ npoeKT pesonfowiu, KOTOpbl# 6bm IIpeLl,nO~eH yBaxaeMbIM  flpeAceAaTenfiM EnonHnTenbHoro coseTa, paccMaTpuBancn nuuIb KaK onHo u3 nononHuTenbHbrx
06CTORTenbCTB, KOTOpbIeCneJIJ'eTIIpuHIITbBOBHUMaHue.~bInUBbICKa3aHbI u~pyruenpe~O~eHIW,KOTOpbIeB  KOHIJe KOHUOB IIpUBenU npe3UnIQ'M K BblBOAyOTOM,~TOHaAOH~CKOnbKOOTOABU~TbOKO~aT~nbHbI~ CpOK  npeAcTasneHuz 3mBneHnîi n npocb6 rocynapcTB-sneHoB 0 npeAocTasneHuu npaaa ronoca. rIo-h4oeMy, HMeHHo  TaKoro pana pemeaue 6bIno npnmT0, B cBsI3n C YeM 6bIna AOCTUrHyTa AOrOBOpeHHOCTb, 'ITO  AAMnHucrpaT~BHan KOMUCCWI nposeneT cBoenononmiTenbHoe 3aceAaHueBo~~0p0FinonoBuHe~~~ 3 HoXGpX,  rAe 3TU ~Ol-IOnHuTeJIbHbIeO6CTO~TenbCTBaU 6yny~ paCCMOTJJeHbI,BTOMZIUCne U IIpOeKTpe3OnKWu,KOTOpbI~
6m npemomea ~peAce~aTeneM~cnonHuTenbHorocoaeTa. Ecrin ~~enpaBnnbH0 no-n TO,ZITO~~O~CXO~~~O  Ha IlpesnnuyMe, r-H EIpencenaTenb, II npouIy MeHII IIOIIpaBUTb. Ho y MeH5I CnOZWnOCb UMeHHO TaKOe  BneraTneHue. Cnacu6o.
(4) Mr EGOCHKINE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 should like to thank you for the explanations which were given concerning  this moming’s meeting of the General Committee, but either something went wrong in the interpretation or my  understanding of what was agreed in the General Committee differs slightly from yours. 1 formed the impression  that the General Committee agreed to refer this matter for further consideration by the Administrative Commission  of the General Conference as a result of certain additional factors that arose both in the course of the meeting of the  General Committee and in connection with the communications of certain Member States. Accordingly, the draft  resolution proposed by the distinguished Chairperson of the Executive Board was considered to be only one of the  additional factors that had to be taken into account. Other proposals were also put forward which fïnally led the  General Committee to the conclusion that the deadline for the submission of communications and requests by  Member States concerning the granting of voting rights should be slightly extended. As 1 recall, the decision taken  was along these lines and it was agreed in this connection that the Administrative Commission would hold its extra  meeting in the afternoon of 3 November, at which these additional factors wouid be considered, including the draft  resolution proposed by the Chairperson of the Executive Board. If  1 misunderstood what took place in the General  Committee, Mr President, 1 hope you Will correct me. But this was my impression. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished representative of the Russian Federation. Let me make it quite clear that this  moming when the General Committee met, 1 undertook to report to the plenary on the outcome of the meeting.  That is the only purpose of this plenary: we are not going to reopen the whole issue. The representative of  Trinidad and Tobago has asked for the floor.
6. Mr CARRINGTON (Trinidad and Tobago):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 think the representative of the Russian Federation has correctly represented  the decisions of this moming and 1 would like to support his position. 1 do not wish to enter into a discussion of  whether or not we should be meeting in plenary or whether the purpose is merely to inform us. 1 think that the  best that cari be done at the present time is simply to note the information that has been provided and revert to the  procedural position as stated by the Russian Federation. Thank you.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Executive Board.
8. M. TIDJANI-SERPOS (Bénin), président du Conseil exécutif:  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous n’avons rien contre la proposition du délégué de la Fédération de  Russie mais il reste à la Conférence générale une décision à prendre quant au délai à accorder à ces Etats pour  soumettre leur communication par écrit. Personnellement, j’avais compris que les Etats qui n’avaient pas encore  envoyé de communications avaient jusqu’à lundi midi au plus tard pour le faire. Quant au reste, il est parfaitement  exact qu’il incombe à la Commission administrative d’examiner aussi bien les communications que les points de  vue exprimés par certains membres du Bureau. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Chairperson of the Executive Board, and 1 now give the floor to the representative of  Denmark.
10. Mr OVESEN (Denmark):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 am under the impression that communications were sent out a long time ago  to Member States at risk of losing their voting rights. A deadline was set at three days alter the opening of this  session of the General Conference, which means last Friday at 3 p.m. The General Conference received certain  communications which were very carefully examined by the Administrative Commission. The Administrative  Commission submits its recommendation to the plenary in document 29 C/79, which is probably in front of you.  As a member of the Bureau of the Administrative Commission, 1 believe - to put it bluntly - that the Commission  has done its job. It is, of course, the prerogative of the plenary to decide not to follow the recommendations of the  Commission, but 1 see no point in asking the Administrative Commission to take up this matter again. Thank you.  Il. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Demnark, and 1 give the floor again to the Representative of the  Russian Federation.
3aCeAaHU%, 3aKJIKFIaeTCII B TOM, Wo661, C OAHOM CTOpOHbI, KaK 06 3~0M CKiwaJIyBalKaeMbItiIIpeACTaBuTenb  TpuHuAaAa u Tooaro, npouH~opMupoBaTb nneaapsoe 3aceAaHue opeKoMeHAaI.mu~pe3uAuyMa,acApyroii  CTOpOHbI, qTO6bI IUIeHapHOe 3aCeAaHue yTBepAUn0 unn He yTBepAun0 peKOMeHAaIJI4K)OIIpOAneHUUCpOKOB  IIpeACTaBneHUSI coo6~eHuW,nOTOMy4TO3TOCBx3aHO CCymeCTBylOmUMU~paBUnaMUnpOIle~pbI. Ecria MM He  IIpUMeM +iOpManbHOrO pemeHU5l Il0 3TOMy BOIlpOCy, y AAMUHUC~aTUBHO# KOMUCCUU He 6yAeT HUKaKUX  OCHOBaHuk 3aHuMaTbCII 3TUM BOIlpOCOM. BOT 0 YeM UAeTpe'Jb.n03TOMy,C OAHO#CTOpOHb1,AJIR HaCBa)KHEl  UH~OpMamf5& 9To6bI BCe 3auHTepeCOBaHHbIe rOCyAapCTBa-YJIeHbI 6bInu npOUH@OpMUpOBaHbI 06 3TO#  peKOMeHAaUUU, a c Apyroii cTopoHbI, qw~o npuwrTb +opManbHoe pemeeue nneaapaoro 3aceAauwx  ~eHep~bHOiiKOH~ep~H~UUOTHOCUTenbHO~pO~eH~3TIIXCpOKOB.Cnacu6o.
(12) Mr EGOCHKINE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, 1 would like us to be quite clear about what we are doing. The recommendation made by  the General Committee concerning the extension of the deadline for the submission of communications regarding  payment plans is only a recommendation by the General Committee, not a decision. 1 must therefore point out that  the fundamental purpose of our meeting today - a plenary meeting - is on the one hand, as the distinguished  representative of Trinidad and Tobago stated, to inform the plenary meeting of the General Committee’s  recommendation, and on the other hand to enable the plenary to approve or not approve the recommendation to  extend the deadline for the submission of communications, since this issue relates to our current Rules of  Procedure. Unless we take a forma1 decision on this matter, the Administrative Commission Will not have any  authorization for taking it up. This is the point at issue. Accordingly, on the one hand, the information is important  for us SO that all Member States concemed are informed of this recommendation, and on the other hand, a forma1  decision of a plenary meeting of the General Conference has to be taken regarding the extension of the deadline.  Thank you.
13. The PRESIDENT:  May 1 now ask the plenary whether it agrees with the recommendation of the General Committee that the  deadline be extended to 3 November, 3 p.m .? The distinguished representative of Norway has asked for the floor.
1 regret to say, Sir, on behalf of Norway, that we Will not be able to follow this advice.
15. The PRESIDENT:  The representative of Equatorial Guinea has the floor.
(16.1) Mr OVONO (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Equatorial Guinea is rather confused by this debate, particularly concerning  application of the decisions adopted by the Organization. In any event, 1 think that certain mitigating circumstances  should be taken into consideration and 1 imagine that this was why the question was referred yesterday to the  General Committee of the General Conference.
(16.2) 1 would like to speak on behalf of the delegations which, when they left their home states, were convinced  on the face of it that their contributions would be paid. However, we know that those states are experiencing  difficulties, and we also know that in most countries the Ministers of Education are not the Ministers of Finance.  Consequently, the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph S(c), were not invoked because it was believed that the  contributions would be paid. It has turned out that the sums transferred to the Organization have not covered the  full amounts owed by some of the states. 1 understand that the Commission has not studied this situation; it is one  that has cropped up along the way. We are therefore in favour of the General Committee’s recommendations being  heeded since a new factor has corne to light of which the Commission was unaware when it looked at the issue.  Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the representative of Afghanistan.
18.1 Mr AZIZ (Afghanistan):  Mr President, this is a very delicate issue. Everyone in this room understands that the countries in  question have general, as well as very specific and difficult problems. A number of the Member States here  which are not now on the list have appealed to the General Conference and to the plenary to give a chance to  these countries, taking into account the main objectives enshrined in the Constitution of the Organization. This,  let me very loudly repeat, is what is meant by solidarity.
18.2 A number of the Member States involved have since yesterday been seeking ways and means of solving  the problem; but 1 hope that we a11 understand - given the difficulties of even communicating since yesterday with  the Secretariat - that these matters could not be solved in 24 hours. May 1 submit with a11 due respect to previous  speakers, and especially to the very distinguished delegate of Norway - a country to which we are grateful for a11  the assistance that it provides to the Organization and to the United Nations system as a whole - that it would be  good to be given a chance to discuss this matter with the Secretariat, taking into account a11 the technicalities. 1  cannot believe that the Organization Will collapse before Monday.
18.3 Accordingly, on behalf of a11 the Member States concemed, which are equally solidaires with the aims  and objectives of UNESCO, and also while thanking very strongly the Chairperson of the Executive Board for  his very wise advice the other day and today, may 1 urge that these countries be given a chance to study the  matter until Monday. 1 am sure that a number of problems Will be solved between now and then. 1 hope that this  appeal Will be heard by everybody present in this room. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 now give the floor to the representative of Denmark.
20. Mr OVESEN (Denmark):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 would just like to say that 1 tülly support Norway’s stated position. We must  remember that there is still one possibility open to a11 the Member States experiencing these diffïculties. If they  pay their arrears that were due at 3 1 December 1995, they Will be granted voting rights in a matter of minutes. SO  a11 is not lost. But 1 do think that since the General Conference adopted these rules at its last session two years  ago, we should abide by them. Thank you very much.
21. The PRESIDENT;  Thank you, Mr Ovesen. 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Belgium.
22. M. MARTIN (Belgique) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. J’aimerais bien que l’on nous fournisse quelques informations concrètes  pour clarifier le débat. Je souhaiterais simplement savoir, s’agissant du montant des arriérés, quelle est la situation  exacte au 3 1 octobre 1997 et à combien s’élevait le montant dû au 3 1 octobre 1995, de façon à pouvoir comparer  objectivement l’état des arriérés et être en mesure de déterminer si, entre ces deux dates, il s’est produit une  amélioration. En pareil cas, on pourrait éventuellement faire montre d’une certaine flexibilité. En revanche, si le  montant des arriérés n’a pas diminué ou a même augmenté, je ne vois pas pourquoi on devrait se montrer très  flexible maintenant. Merci.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 would like to inform the distinguished delegate of Belgium that the main purpose of  convening this meeting is to communicate the outcome of this moming’s General Committee discussions or  recommendations. We are therefore not going to reopen the whole issue. If you are interested in obtaining a list  of the countries in arrears, please inquire of the Secretariat. 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of  Japan.
24. Mr NARUMIYA (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. As 1 understand it, the purpose of convening this plenary meeting is to inform  a11 the Member States of the deadline for submitting the letter of communication. In other words, we are seeking  a way to rescue those countries that failed to pay their contributions on time. The issue here is not one of  discrimination against the members in arrears, nor is it one of suspending their right to attend the meetings or to  speak. The issue here is voting rights. It is a duty and obligation of a11 the Member States to observe the  constitutional articles. Although some of them have failed to submit the communication regarding their payment  plan, the recommendation of the Administrative Commission was that they be given the opportunity to submit  their letter of communication. 1 therefore support the comments of the Russian delegation and other colleagues,  as well as the suggestion that the deadline for the submission of the written communication should be Monday,
3 November. This new deadline is intended to rescue countries wishing to submit the letter of communication  immediately, granting them the right to vote. 1 therefore appeal to a11 Member States not to misunderstand the  reason why the Administrative Commission delivered such a report and why this plenary meeting was convened.  Thank you Mr President.
25. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished representative of Japan. 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative  of the Netherlands.
26.1 Mr de VISSER (Netherlands):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 have a small factual question to ask or explanation to seek. My  understanding of the reason for this meeting has been spelt out by others, including the previous speaker.  However, in your reply to my Belgian colleague, you stated that this meeting has only been called for information  purposes about the discussions and decisions this moming in the General Committee. If you only want to inform  the meeting about the proceedings of the General Committee, it would seem to me that we could easily have  stayed in our Commission meetings or in our offices and received in the same fax by which you convened US the  information that you planned to give us.
26.2 But, now, the text of a draft resolution proposed to the General Committee by the Chairperson of the  Executive Board has been distributed to us: 1 would like to know, is this draft resolution subject matter for debate  at the present time? Do we have to limit ourselves only to listening to the information you have to share with us,  or do you want us to discuss this text in substance? Thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands. The text he referred to is not the subject matter of  discussion today. What you are being asked, in connection with the information about what happened in the  meeting of the General Committee this moming, is whether the extension of the deadline to Monday,
3 November, 3 p.m. is acceptable to you. Then the Administrative Commission could meet on Monday at 5 p.m.  to take up the matter again. 1 give the floor once more to the distinguished representative of the Netherlands.
28. Mr de VISSER (Netherlands):  Thank you for the informatian, Sir. If you wish us to take a position on a specific issue, 1 cari inform you  that after listening to the proceedings of the Administrative Commission and the debate in the room, 1 align  myself with the conclusion arrived at by the Administrative Commission, on condition, however - SO eloquently  stated by other speakers such at the delegates of Norway and Denmark - that the tenor of this outcome is Iùlly  understood. Thank you.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor once more to the distinguished representative of Belgium.
30. M. MARTIN (Belgique) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je ne voudrais pas compliquer le débat. J’avais demandé une information  factuelle non sur les pays qui n’ont pas payé mais simplement sur le montant global des arriérés à fin octobre
1995 et fin 1997. Je me demande pourquoi dans le contexte de ce débat on ne pourrait pas me donner cette  information factuelle que je souhaiterais de toute façon avoir si jamais nous revenons à ce sujet la semaine  prochaine. Je vous remercie.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the Secretariat.
32. The SECRETARIAT:  Thank you very much, Mr President. TO reply to the honourable member from Belgium, the situation in  detail at 3 1 October is moving extremely fast. Therefore, what 1 am saying now may not be entirely up to date,  but 1 cari say that 36 requests were submitted and approved in 1995 for Member States owing $35 million,  including current biennium amounts. In addition, a few Member States did not corne to the Conference in 1995  and made no requests. In 1997, there were 39 Member States in arrears in excess of amounts allowed. They owed  a total of $38 million, including 1996-1999 assessments. Accordingly, for those who are late it has slightly  worsened, even though in global terms it has improved a little. But, as 1 said, the situation is moving very fast, in  that we are receiving requests from Member States a11 the time. 1 myself received two this moming and 1 know  that Mr Daly received a number as well. Thank you very much, Sir.
33. The PRESIDENT:  May 1 take it that the distinguished representative of Belgium is satisfïed with the figures? Thank you.  Now 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of Cameroon.
34. M. MBAPPE (Cameroun) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il me semble que la Conférence générale a déjà fait le tour de la question  hier. Elle a demandé à son Bureau de se réunir. Le Bureau a siégé ce matin et a abouti à une conclusion qu’il  soumet à la Conférence générale, à savoir qu’il propose de proroger le délai prévu dans le Règlement intérieur  - délai qui a expiré -jusqu’au lundi 3 novembre. Nous pensons pour notre part que c’est là une proposition sage et  qui ne préjuge en rien des décisions qui pourront être prises ultérieurement. Le Cameroun est donc d’accord pour  que l’on proroge le délai jusqu’au 3 novembre. Je vous remercie.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, once again 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of Demnark.
36. Mr OVESEN (Denmark):  Thank you for your patience, Mr President. 1 just wish to say that although we are basically talking  about money, we are also talking about principles and rules of procedure - rules adopted by the last session of the  General Conference. Consequently, the figures are not a11 that important, since we are talking about principles,  about abiding by the rules we have adopted ourselves. Having said that, 1 just want to repeat that 1 think that fiom  now on, whatever happens, this whole question should be discussed by plenary and by plenary only. Of course, if  the plenary decides to ask the Administrative Commission to reconsider things, 1 am sure it Will do SO. 1 am sony  the Chairperson is unable to be here because the Commission is adopting its report. In any event, 1 think that the  Administrative Commission has done its job. The rest is up to the plenary.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank ~OU. 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative of the Central African Republic.
38. M. POLOKO (République centrafricaine) :  Hier j’ai dit que les délégués venus participer à cette session de la Conférence générale avaient le souci  de la solidarité, mais en même temps étaient soumis a des contraintes concernant le paiement de leurs  contributions. J’ai dit également que certains pays étaient aux prises avec des difficultés financières sérieuses,  mais je n’ai pas oublié de dire aussi que I’UNESCO avait besoin de fonds pour pouvoir fonctionner. J’ai donc  demandé à la Conférence générale de faire preuve de souplesse quant au vote de ces pays. S’il nous est présenté  un projet de résolution prévoyant le 3 novembre comme date limite, je souhaiterais que le délai proposé soit  prorogé, parce que, étant donné que nous sommes vendredi 3 1, ce délai me paraît bref. Je sais que nous avons  besoin de fonds, mais en même temps je souhaiterais que certains délégués puissent voter. En conséquence, je  suggère que le délai vienne plutôt à une expiration mercredi, ce qui donnerait le temps aux délégués qui  s’emploient à trouver des possibilités de paiement d’entrer en contact avec leur pays, étant donné les problèmes de  communication que nous avons évoqués. Voilà ce que je voudrais vous proposer. Je vous remercie.
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Sweden.
40. Mr LINDAHL (Sweden):  Thank you, Mr President. 1 just want to point out that two areas are involved here: solidarity with the  Organization and solidarity with the countries in diffculties. Solidarity with the Organization means that we have  to follow the rules of the Organization. The rules that we have established for ourselves are very clear in this  case. 1 fail to see how we could give a postponement beyond Monday if these rules are to have any value and this  incitement to pay debts to the Organization is to function. 1 just cannot see how we could extend fùrther than  Monday this benefit of the doubt which we would like to give a11 members in difftculties. Thank you,  Mr President.
41. The PRESIDENT:
1 tend to disagree with the delegate of Sweden. Actually we are asking the permission of the plenary  whether we could go along with the recommendation of the General Committee this moming to extend the date  till 3 November, not beyond that. SO if you agree, we could take this decision at this stage. That is the main  purpose for calling this meeting. Now 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of Papua New Guinea.
42. Mr BAKI (Papua New Guinea):
1 must thank the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission for his very clear explanation of how  the Commission came to its conclusions on the voting rights issue, and for its understanding. The Commission  was very patient with us yesterday, and again today. SO 1 am in favour of taking this matter up on 3 November,  because the distinguished representatives of Denmark, Belgium and Sweden have already made the position very  clear. We must respect the Organization’s very high credibility. We are in difftcult circumstances but 1 believe  that 3 November gives us enough time. SO 1 agree with the recommendation that has been put forward to us.  Thank you.
43. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Since there is a consensus on extending the date unti13 November, 1 take it that the plenary  agrees to the recommendation. 1 give the floor to the distinguished representative of Angola.
44. M. PETERSON (Angola) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je ne voudrais pas prolonger inutilement la discussion sur ce point. Nous  sommes tout à fait d’accord avec ce délai, mais peut-être y reviendra-t-on ultérieurement. Or il y a un projet de  décision qui nous a été distribué et qui peut être pris comme base de réflexion. Je voudrais donc ajouter que le  projet de décision qui nous a été distribué peut servir de document de travail pour une éventuelle révision de ce  délai. Merci.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now 1 once again give the floor to the distinguished representative of the Russian  Federation. 1 hope this is the last intervention.
46. r-H ETOIIIKRH (PoccUi%c~m cDenepauna):  Yaeprrm Bac, r-n IlpeAceAaTenb, 9~0 3~0 Moe nocnewee sbrcTy.neHue. II npocT0 xoTen 661  HanOMHUTb Bahf, 9TOpeUleHUe,KOTOpOeMbI Ce$IaC~pUMeM,~OJIlXHO6bITbC~OpMJ'JlUpOBaHOTaKUM 06pa3OM,  qTO6bI TaM rOBOpUnOCb 0 IIpMOCTaHOBJIeHUH AeiiCTBU>r l-l)'HKTa 5 CT. 79 npaBWl IIpOQe~pbIreHepaJlbHOfi
18  KOHf&W.HLWH. B HCM HeO6XOAEiMO o6oanaWrrb CPOK, 0 KOTOPOM MM ~OTOBOpHJIACb, a TaK)KKe YKWlTb ITJ’HKT, Ha  KOTOPbIii MbI CCbIJIaeMCII - “~pHOCTaHOBJIeHHe &hBEiSI Il. 5 CT. 79 r@îBHJl IIpOUe~pbI”. CIIaCU60.
(46) Mr EGOCHKINE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):
1 assure you, Mr President, that this Will be my last intervention. 1 merely wished to remind you that the  decision we are about to take should be formulated in such a way as to refer to the suspension of Rule 79.5 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. The decision must specify the deadline to which we have agreed and  indicate the item to which it relates, namely: ‘Suspension of Rule 79.5 of the Rules of Procedure’. Thank you.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Congo.
48. Mme NPASI NKANGA (Congo) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Mon intention n’est pas de relancer le débat. Je crois que, depuis hier,  nous avons fait le tour de tous les arguments. Je voulais simplement dire que mon pays ne voit aucun  inconvénient à ce que le délai soit prorogé jusqu’à lundi. Merci.
49. The PRESIDENT:  SO may 1 take it that, bearing in mind what was said by the distinguished representative of the Russian  Federation, we decide to extend the deadline until 3 November at 3 p.m.. 7 It is SO decided. The meeting is  adjourned.  La séance est levée à 17 h.30  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 17.30
3aCeflaHHC 3aKpbIBZIeTCSl B 17.30  &Il Ay o,r* -LwI j s..,wI cd,  &W17 8$30 !!&$a