Douzième séance plénière
28 octobre 1997 à 10 h.15  Prkident : M. PORTELLA (Brésil)  Twelfih plenary meeting
393    DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuation)  OEXYXAEHME BOHPOCOB OSrrIEH HOJIHTMKM (npononmenne)  (CL) LWI L&Jl Lad  ,&&R3i9$ ( t& 1
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Mesdames, Messieurs, je constate que nous n’avons pas le quorum prévu par le règlement. Je suspends  la séance que nous reprendrons dans cinq minutes.  (La séance est suspendue pendant cinq minutes)
1.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la douzième séance plénière de la 29e session de la  Conférence générale. Le premier orateur invité à prendre la parole ce matin est M. Evlogui Bonev, conseiller  principal du Programme des Nations Unies pour le développement (PNUD).
2.1 Mr BONEV (United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 1 am addressing you on behalf of the Administrator of  UNDP, Mr Speth, who extends his best wishes for the success of your important tasks.
2.2 Mr President, 1997 is a year of change for the United Nations. The Secretary-General’s reform package  ‘Track Two’, launched in July, is far-reaching and impressive. UNDP strongly supports the measures proposed  by the Secretary-General and looks forward to its role in making the United Nations more efficient and effective.
2.3 The Secretary-General has often underlined that United Nations operations at the country level are of  paramount importance. In his meeting with members of the United Nations Development Group (UNDG) on
29 July 1997, the Secretary-General made some points regarding the Group, which the Administrator shared with  the UNDP Executive Board at its third regular session in September 1997. He noted that for years Member States  have impressed upon the United Nations the importance of ensuring greater CO-ordination and coherence in  development operations. The Secretary-General stated that the United Nations would have a single representative  at the country level, in the form of the Resident Co-ordinator. With its long-standing legislative mandate in that  regard, UNDP would continue to fùnd and manage the Resident Co-ordinator system. The Secretary-General  cited a number of significant improvements in the functioning of the Resident Co-ordinator system in recent  years. In this context, the Administrator of UNDP has underscored his continuing commitment to ensuring that  the system is made even more effective and that it is supportive of the aspirations and objectives of the individual  funds and programmes as well as the United Nations system as a whole.
2.4 Mr President, while the General Assembly continues to discuss the reform measures proposed by the  Secretary-General, some steps have already been taken by the United Nations Development Group. Guidelines  have been issued for the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF), which Will begin on a  pilot basis in several countries. At the present time, the initial membership of UNDAF includes United Nations  funds and programmes. Specialized Agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions are encouraged to join in the  preparation of UNDAF. Donor organizations, civil society, NGOs and professional groups cari be invited to  participate as appropriate. Govemment support and participation is very vital. The Resident Co-ordinator is  requested, in the guidelines, to ensure that the concems of agencies not represented in a country, or operating  there without a team member, are properly reflected in the UNDAF preparation process. The Resident  Co-ordinator is thus requested to inform a11 organizations of the intended process and invite their inputs. On
7 August 1997, the Administrator instructed a11 Resident Co-ordinators as follows: ‘At a11 times, give priority to  the success and support of the United Nations system. As Resident Co-ordinator, represent a11 United Nations  system partners fairly, equitably, and well, including those not present in the country. Keep your two main roles -  UNDP Resident Representative and United Nations Resident Co-ordinator - clearly distinct . ‘.
2.5 Many countries support and are moving towards institutionalizing the ‘United Nations House’. Plans for  common premises have been- accelerated and much effort has been devoted to strengthening the Resident  Co-ordinator system. That includes improved procedures for the selection and the performance appraisal of  Resident Co-ordinators and technical support to them.
2.6 Mr President, a few words about the interna1 process of change in UNDP. The Executive Board  approved the change management process in UNDP in decision 97/1.5 of 23 May 1997. The change process is
12  aimed at improving the level and quality of services and the strengthening of the overall impact of development  on programme activities undertaken by UNDP. Major facets of the process are decentralization of decision-  making and responsibilities to the country level and enhanced accountability measures. Naturally, the change  process in UNDP is undertaken within the ongoing process of wider United Nations reform. The legislation  emphasizes the importance of tore resources as the foundation of UNDP’s resource base. With regard to  decentralization, the Board supported the phased introduction of a small number of subregional resource facilities  to provide technical expertise on a regional basis. The groundwork for establishment of the first round of the  subregional resource facilities was completed in July. It is expected that the first new facilities Will be in place in  early 1998
2.7 In the context of both United Nations reform and UNDP’s interna1 reform, the aim is to provide better  service to meet the needs of programme countries and, in SO doing, to strengthen its partnership with the  Specialized Agencies in pursuance of the same aims.
2.8 TO conclude, Mr President, UNDP and UNESCO have a long history of co-operation for the benefit of  the developing countries. Al1 of you are well aware of that, and 1 am not going to dwell on it. Now we are looking  forward to our future important common tasks and we, from our side, Will make every effort to further enhance  our co-operation. Thank you.
(3) J’ai maintenant le plaisir de donner la parole à M. Mario Jaramillo, ministre de l’éducation et de la culture de  l’Equateur.
(4.1) Mr JAFUMILLO (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished Members of the Executive Board and delegates of  member countries, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Constitutional Govemment of Ecuador, under the  presidency of Fabian Alarcon, 1 should Iike to congratulate you, Mr President and Mr Director-General, on the  organization and successtûl conduct of the 29th session of the General Conference. 1 pray that a11 countries of the  world Will, through mutual accommodation and in keeping with the principles and objectives of UNESCO, corne to  accept one another in a spirit of peace, hope and fellowship which is necessary for the creation of a more just  world, and a humanity which is progressively less endangered and more united as we approach the new  millennium.
(4.2) On 5 February 1997, the people of Ecuador - and rarely has the word ‘people’ been used more aptly -  decided to have its rights respected in the face of abuse and corruption. Without any form of excess and without  violence, it took to the streets and, with the support of the body which is the guarantor of constitutionality, the  National Congress, it ousted a govemment which had ceased to respect and represent it, replacing it by another  whose mission it is to restore order and dignity to society and prepare the next presidential elections. In a  referendum held last May, this same people voted to confirm its decision and that of Congress; it rejected the past  and confirmed the choice of the Constitutional President, Fabian Alarcon. Ecuadorian democracy has been fully  restored.
(4.3) Democracy, Mr President, distinguished delegates, rightly understood as the informed and effective  participation of citizens and social groups in the taking of decisions, should form the basis for domestic harmony  among peoples and relations between states. Equality, which is of the essence, peace, understanding and individual
12  and collective rights should, now more than ever before, shape UNESCO’s purposes as well as bilateral and  multilateral relations between govemments. The year 1998 Will be devoted to the strengthening of human rights.  My country believes that themes such as ethics in politics and education Will bave to be addressed.
(4.4) Ecuador welcomes the retum of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northem Ireland to the  Organization, an event which should serve as an example prompting other states to retum, thereby consolidating  the universal character of UNESCO.
(4.5) History and geography have contributed to Ecuador’s diversity in comparison with other places while  linking us to neighbouring countries. Prehistory, relations among Andean indigenous groups and the Spanish  colony connect us with Peru and Bolivia. The Spanish colony and the wars of independence of the nineteenth  Century create bonds between us and Colombia and Venezuela. Language, religion and common interests and  problems mean that we form part of the Ibero-American community. We feel prepared, by our past and our present,  to assume both this diversity and this similarity in equal measure, in order to understand not only the American  continent, but the world. And we are ready to respond to it, without relinquishing our identity which is rooted,  precisely, in dialogue, social harmony, understanding and cultural interchange. We are not putting ourselves  forward as an example, but joining with countries that approach international relations in a spirit of participation,  fellow feeling and democracy.
(4.6) In regard to the culture of peace, in which my country believes and which it supports unreservedly, we  must all look towards the future. Our countries may well have made mistakes in the past. We must now try to  conquer a future of peace.
(4.7) We accept the process of globalization characteristic of the present period, having no reason to swim  against the tide. However, globalization should be understood in the best sense, as information and knowledge, as a  universal project involving, above ah, a two-way process in which we are not only recipients, but actors as well.  We do not accept the standardization of people and cultures, but in its place the ah-embracing dialogue of  partnership which is equally present in everyday life and at the negotiating table.
(4.8) Ecuador considers it a lùndamental duty to promote the development of education and to ensure that the  entire population has access to it. We must therefore take steps to improve and democratize our education system.
(4.9) Educational policies must play a pivota1 role in dovetailing sustainable development, the culture of peace  and popular commitment to the principles of freedom and social justice in order to solve community problems in  ways which are in the national, local and individual interest; to generate reforms and innovations conducive to  social progress; and to devise objectives, strategies and major integrative actions in a systematic and co-ordinated  manner.
(4.10) Our ultimate objective is to train critical, ethically responsible and caring citizens who are committed to  social change, who proudly acknowledge and uphold their national, multicultural and multi-ethnie identities, who  develop their civic and moral values, who possess a sound scientifïc and technical training, who have the ability to  create productive work and who cari contribute to the consolidation of an independent democracy in which equality  between men and women and tolerance hold sway.
(4.11) Ecuador is grateful for the actions carried out by UNESCO and for its dynamic Director-General,  Federico Mayor, and values the support that it has received for various projects.
(4.12) Ecuador has been absent from the Executive Board for 18 long years. Now,it has once again submitted  its candidature with the intention of continuing to serve the lofty principles of UNESCO.
(4.13) The culture of the late twentieth Century and that of the twenty-first Century cannot be other than the  culture of peace, involving a frank review of problems between states, the satisfaction of the common needs of our  peoples and concerted efforts to deal with the difficulties and the historical, technical and ecological mistakes  which adversely affect the well-being of humanity. Ecuador is at one with UNESCO in the search for a culture of  peace on the basis of which a better and more promising future cari be built. Thank you, Mr President, thank you,  ladies and gentlemen.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Muchas gracias, Sefior Ministro. Je donne maintenant la parole à Mme Carmen Jarvis, secrétaire  générale de la Commission nationale du Guyana auprès de l’UNESC0.
6.1 MS JARVIS (Guyana):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a distinct honour for me to address you at  the end of the fust biennium after the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations - marking an  era of new challenges and concems. First of all, on behalf of the Guyana delegation, in the absence of our  Minister, and on my own behalf, permit me to warmly congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to high  office and to wish you success in the discharge of your duties. Guyana also joins in welcoming returning and new  Member States to the Organization. It is a source of great satisfaction to witness the gradua1 achievement of  universality and, most noteworthy, to know that a former Member State, the United Kingdom, whose intellectual,  cultural and material contributions were of such great value, is once again within our midst. We look forward to  other former Member States rejoining the fold.
6.2 We wish to recognize our Director-General’s strong and constructive role during the past years in  forging new ties, in overcoming difficulties and in creating innovative programmes that maintain UNESCO as a  dynamic intellectual organization. Our Director-General has steadfastly faced global issues and sought to propose  solutions that reinforce the validity of the Organization’s ideal, the culture of peace. He must be warmly  commended for his outstanding work for the Organization.
6.3 Mr President, as we enter another phase of the Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-200 1, we are assured  that this forward-looking plan Will help to strengthen international intellectual co-operation and contribute to the  promotion of development and peace. Following the lines of action of the Medium-Term Strategy, which Guyana  fully supports, our country is committed to a policy of growth and development and that crucial component in the  process of nation-building, the development of human resources through education and training. This priority is  indicated by the govemment’s increasing budgetary allocation to education recognizing that education is at the  tore of a11 development, progress and social change.
6.4 In reviewing Major Programme 1, ‘Education for a11 throughout life’, we are mindful of the four pillais  of education outlined in the report of the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-tïrst Century -  learning to be, learning to know, learning to do and learning to live together. In Guyana, the Primary Education  Improvement Project seeks to provide not only the physical environment and material requirements for the  provision of a sound basic education but is looking at the renewal of content and methods to achieve  improvement at that level. Mr President, it is mainly functional illiteracy that is plaguing our country and it must  be eradicated by improvement in the teaching/leaming process at the nursery and primary levels. With the  Secondary School Reform Project in progress, we are striving for improvement in school management, teacher  training, curriculum development, textbook development, and general school-improvement programmes. With  improved quality, equity and efficiency of our secondary schools in the perspective of education throughout life,  we are seeking to render our system ‘more responsive to social transformations and to the challenges of the  twenty-fust century’. Our distance-education programmes are proceeding satisfactorily and their impact Will  increase.
6.5 We welcome the grant of a UNESCO Chair in Research on the Sustainable Development ofthe  Rainforest at the Univers@ of Guyana and seek further help for its maintenance. As we stand on the threshold of  the twenty-fust century, Major Programme II, ‘The sciences in the service of development’, assumes very great  importance. UNESCO’s transfer and sharing of knowledge in the exact and natural sciences are crucial to the  enhancement of knowledge in the world.
6.6 Mr President, we need not only to strengthen national capacities at university level, but to strengthen  teaching at the levels that must feed the university - the primary and secondary levels. The regional sciences and  mathematics faim supported by UNESCO are very useful launching pads for Young scientists and are assisting  the region in identifying students with good potential. Such students need to be encouraged by being afforded  further opportunities for study. In this regard, we would urge that the UNESCO Subregional Adviser be given a  budget that Will ensure that assistance cari be given at secondary as well as at tertiary level.
6.7 The need for enviromnental monitoring persists in Guyana especially in the hinterland regions. We are  therefore grateful for a11 the help given by UNESCO in this regard, the most recent being for the training of  Amerindians in monitoring and for Amerindian schools damaged by floods. Guyana is happy to note that  ‘Educating for a sustainable future’ is the thrust of UNESCO in its scientific transdisciplinary project.  Sustainable development is essential for the survival of mankind.
6.8 The eradication of poverty in the long term and the reduction of poverty in the short term have been the  focus of our govemment in recent years. Basic to a11 efforts in this respect is the eradication of illiteracy and the
12  incorporation of poverty-alleviation programmes in a11 national development efforts. In recent years, the series of  world conferences staged by the United Nations cari a11 be cited as focusing on the eradication of poverty, as well  as bringmg nations closer to an understanding of a number of other issues and problems that challenge and  threaten our very existence. Begimting with the World Conference on Education for All, held in Jomtien,  Thailand, in 1990, we continue with the United Nations Summit on Environment and Development, held in  Brazil in 1992; the Conference of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados in 1994; the Conference on  Population and Development, held in Egypt in 1994; the United Nations Summit on Social Development in 1995;  and the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women which took place in Beijing, China, in 1995. In a11  these conferences, UNESCO played a pivota1 role, and the importance of partnership in development was  emphasized. If poverty, which is pervasive throughout the world, is to be alleviated and finally eradicated, there  must be NorthSouth co-operation and sharing of resources. There must be sharing of experiences and  dissemination of information if social development is to become a reality.
6.9 The value of research in fïnding solutions to the world problems that beset us has led to the  establishment of that very important Intergovemmental Council on Management of Social Transformations  (MOST). We support MOST and hope that it Will lead to the influencing of policy-making for the solution of  problems bringing researchers in the human sciences back into the decision-making process.
6.10 Having alluded to the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995 and  with the alleviation and eradication of poverty in focus, it is apposite for me to examine at this point some of the  post-Beijing action taken in Guyana. A Caribbean Subregional Ministerial Conference was held in Georgetown  in August of this year. This was the CARlCOM/UNECLA/UNIFEM Post-Beijing Encounter, and the Caribbean  position paper was presented on the two thematic issues of ‘Women in decision-making’ and ‘Gender,  sustainable development and poverty’. Progress reports by Caribbean govemments on action taken since the  Beijing Conference were presented and a Georgetown Consensus was issued. Guyana has recently blazed a trail  for others in the establishment of a Women’s Leadership Institute with funding from UNDP. Other components  of the project are a National Resource and Documentation Centre and the preparation of a National Post-Beijing  Plan of Action. The project as a whole is entitled ‘Building Capacity for Gender Equity and in Governance’. The  Guyana National Commission Will work closely with the relevant ministry in this important project.
6.11 It is worthy of note that UNESCO continues to place culture at the centre of development. The main  lines of emphasis in the area of cultural development encourage the development of interdisciplinary approaches  which are intended to revitalize, in a co-ordinated way, the tangible and intangible cultural and natural heritage.  This approach helps to contribute lasting solutions to the developmental needs of local communities. A similar  emphasis allows support for the work of the statutory organs of the World Heritage Convention with a view to  ensuring that the World Heritage List is more representative, especially in the least developed countries. Where  that list is concemed, there is an imbalance at present between regions of the world, but it is pleasing to note that  efforts Will be made to correct that imbalance and to have a more globally representative World Heritage List.  Guyana supports this strongly and welcomes the help given in the preparatory stages of identification and  nomination.
6.12 We are living in an ever-changing world in which the advances in information and communication  technology follow SO swifily, one on the other, that developing countries find it diffïcult to keep pace. Training  and equipment needs are massive and UNESCO’s efforts to assist in these areas are most welcome. We are  especially interested in the implementation of Programme IV.2, ‘Capacity-building in communication,  information and informatics’ to help, in particular, developing countries and disadvantaged countries worldwide  to strengthen their capacities in communication, information and, most of all, informatics.
6.13 Mr President, the National Commission plays a crucial role in the implementation of the programme and  activities of UNESCO. A strong and viable National Commission ensures the effectiveness and success of the co-  operation between UNESCO and the Member State. The National Commission, and especially its Secretary-  General, must be given appropriate recognition for the significant role played in promoting UNESCO’s ideals.  Linked inevitably to the National Commission is the Participation Programme, and it is hoped that projected  reforms Will allow the National Commission a bit more flexibility and the ability to assista wider range of  persons who are seeking fmancial assistance. There must be closer consultation with National Commissions,  facilitating their association with the formulation, implementation and evaluation of the Organization’s  programmes.
6.14 Finally, Mr President, the specialized intellectual role of UNESCO facilitates the participation in, and  contribution of every Member State - large or small, developed or developing - to, the values, ethics and lofty
399    ideals of the Organization. We must continue to encourage sharing as well as engagement in dialogue, in our  continuing search for peace and understanding.
6.15 The high priority assigned by the Organization to extending and enhancing the Associated Schools  Project ensures the continuity of the promotion of peace and understanding in the world, as committed children  and Young people grow into adulthood. We note also and commend the work of NGOs dealing with youth, and  especially those of long standing, dealing with the girl-Child and Young woman. Our education for a culture of  peace must lead to a culture ofpeace in action. Let us a11 within UNESCO engage in long-term peace-building. 1  thank you.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Madame. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Callixte d’offay, ambassadeur, délégué  permanent des Seychelles auprès de I’UNESCO.
8.1 M. D’OFFAY (Seychelles) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord vous adresser, Monsieur le  Président, nos félicitations et nos encouragements pour le rôle que vous êtes appel6 à jouer tout au long de cette  session de la Conférence génerale. Je souhaiterais également exprimer mes remerciements à votre prédécesseur,  M. Torben Krogh, du Danemark, pour le savoir-faire et le dévouement avec lesquels il a su diriger nos travaux  lors de la dernière session de notre assemblée. Dans le même esprit, je tiens à renouveler ici les assurances du  soutien que les Seychelles apportent à l’action de I’UNESCO.
8.2 Sans doute les petits pays ont-ils une conscience accrue des enjeux qui sous-tendent et conditionnent les  interventions de I’UNESCO. En deux décennies, depuis l’Indépendance, notre pays s’est affirmé non seulement  dans tous les secteurs qui concourent à l’identité nationale et qui s’appuient sur la langue, l’éducation, la culture et  la solidarité sociale, mais aussi dans les situations et circonstances propices à la reconnaissance et à la  coopération internationales. Je rappellerai, en particulier, la huitième Conférence régionale des commissions  nationales africaines qui s’est tenue aux Seychelles en 1995. C’est dire à quel point, indépendamment de notre  statut de petit pays insulaire - qui oblige parfois à relativiser les choses -, nous nous sentons partie prenante aux  actions de I’UNESCO.
8.3 En effet, n’avons-nous pas, chez nous, sur le terrain, mesuré l’intérêt et l’efficacité des actions entreprises  avec le concours de I’UNESCO : lorsqu’il s’est agi d’adapter notre système d’enseignement aux nouvelles  exigences du développement individuel et aux défis d’un marché de l’emploi en mutation constante ; lorsque nous  avons été amenés à privilégier les politiques en faveur de l’environnement et à considérer l’ensemble de notre  territoire sous l’angle de la protection du milieu naturel et de la définition de stratégies de conservation, initiative  qui relève d’une gestion intégrée des zones côtières ; lorsque nous avons repensé la dimension créole de notre  culture, seule capable de mettre en harmonie les différents apports de notre histoire culturelle ; lorsque - enfin -  nous avons décidé de donner à la jeunesse l’importance qui correspond à ses aspirations. Dans la gestion de tous  ces dossiers, l’action de I’UNESCO a été l’un des éléments du succès obtenu.
8.4 Mais, les efforts accomplis ont également permis de délimiter de nouveaux domaines d’intervention.  L’Education nationale - signe des temps - voit son mandat élargi, car le droit au savoir est un droit à vie. Dans un  pays comme les Seychelles, sans université, il importe autant de mettre en place des filières d’accès à  l’enseignement supérieur que d’ouvrir encore plus l’éducation primaire et l’éducation secondaire aux nouvelles  méthodes d’enseignement, aux nouvelles techniques informatiques et audiovisuelles, à une pédagogie apte à  mieux solliciter la créativité. 11 y a unanimité, en particulier, sur le besoin de développer dès le secondaire un  enseignement technique et professionnel qui renforce les compétences des jeunes et leur donne accès à un  éventail très large de situations d’avenir.
8.5 A une époque où les interactions s’expriment à l’échelle de la planète, l’environnement ne se décline plus  en autant de microcosmes qu’il y a de pays, et c’est la vulnérabilité de l’ensemble qui doit dicter les programmes  d’intervention spécifiques. Sur le plan naturel, force est de le constater, l’archipel seychellois est dépositaire d’un  patrimoine qui appartient à l’humanité tout entiére. Or, de nouveaux moyens techniques et humains, une expertise  sans cesse corrigée sont devenus les conditions sine qua non de la transmission aux générations futures de cet  héritage naturel.
8.6 La prise en compte du patrimoine culturel est désormais l’un des paramètres de toute politique durable  de développement intégré. Le long cheminement de la sensibilité créole et son épanouissement actuel plaident,  nous semble-t-il, en faveur d’une aide renforcée à la coopération culturelle.
8.7 Enfm, parler de jeunesse aujourd’hui, c’est se prêter à ce double exercice de responsabilité qui consiste,  d’une part, à gérer les urgences et, d’autre part, à préparer le futur, dans un contexte souvent bousculé de valeurs  contestées et de repères mal assurés. Il nous faudra toujours plus d’attention et de sincerité si nous ne voulons pas  rester en deça des attentes des jeunes. Aujourd’hui comme hier, il n’y a de début de réponse que dans l’évaluation  des besoins et, des aides, la répartition et l’ajustement des ressources. C’est là toute la grandeur et l’humilité de  cette tâche qui est confiée à I’UNESCO, une tâche aussi utile que nécessaire dans l’optique d’une culture de la  paix. Car tout projet doit se doubler d’une ambition.  (The speaker continues in English)
8.8 Mr President, this year has seen the retum to UNESCO of the United Kingdom, one of its founder  members. Allow me to express my country’s appreciation of this most appropriate and welcome decision. Our  Organization Will certainly be the stronger and the better for it. It is our hope that a11 countries, without  exception, Will enter the new century together, united in action within UNESCO, to pursue the noble and  important mission with which it has been entrusted. Thank you.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  Je VOUS remercie, Monsieur 1’Ambassadeur. Je donne maintenant la parole a S. Ext. M. Senipisi Langi  Kavaliku, vice-premier ministre et ministre de l’éducation des Tonga.
10.1 Mr KAVALIKU (Tonga):  Mr President, Mr Vice-Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege and honour, Mr President, on behalf of the  Kingdom of Tonga, to join previous speakers in warmly congratulating you on your election, in expressing  appreciation of the responsibilities you have already undertaken and in wishing you the very best for the  remainder of this session as well as for the next two years. Brazil, 1 am sure, must be proud once again to produce  another son to serve the purpose and the people of the world of UNESCO.
10.2 Mr President, Tonga supports the Draft Programme and Budget for the biemrium 1998-l 999 as  contained in document 29 C/5. Furthermore, we welcome the implementation of the second phase of the  Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-200 1 as approved by the 28th session of the General Conference. There are, of  course, a few things which we would have liked to be amended, but these do not in any way detract from the  value of document 29 C/5. And 1 would like to express my sincere appreciation to the Chairperson and Members  of the Executive Board, but especially to the Director-General and his staff for an outstanding performance.
10.3 In terms of specific programmes, to name just a few, Tonga fully supports the continuation of activities  in the E-9 countries, and for the priority groups - Afiica, women, youth, and least developed countries. We also  favour: continued attention to vocational and technical education and training; the expansion of Associated  Schools and UNESCO Clubs; the coastal area and small islands programme; work related to water resources and  water resource management; and the transdisciplinary projects. We endorse the establishment of the Institute for  Informatics in Moscow; and sincerely hope that the Institute of Statistics Will be established soon in UNESCO  with the support of the World Bank and others. However, on the question of resources, we would like to suggest  that perhaps there is a need for reconsideration of the major programme allocationsto the various regions, to  reflect a fairer distribution pattem for the Asia-Pacific region, which together accouru for 62 per cent of the  world’s population.
10.4 Mr President, Tonga also notes that there does not seem to be any real interest in or concem for the area  of physical education and sports, especially in relation to peace, development, to education, youth and quality of  iife. We suggest that this is an important aspect in terms of the leaming to be and learning to live together that  have been underlined by Jacques Delors, and also a further step in the direction of poverty eradication. If other  Member States are not really interested in this activity, Tonga and other Pacifie Member States would, 1 am sure,  be more than willing to take up that share.
10.5 Mr President, the emphasis laid on education as the major flagship programme for UNESCO is, we  believe, necessary and must continue. This programme may not be as exciting - or SO it seems - as the others, but  it is the foundation not only of this House of Intellect but also for a11 houses built by human beings. Our only  concems are that we should spend more on searching for ideas and reforms that make quality education and  functional literacy reachable by the excluded and the unreached; and that when attained, this education becomes  meaningful. It is not the delivery of education that is important, but rather the delivery of qua&’ education.  This - of course - holds true for the South as well as the North. The only difference is that for the North there is a  degree of hope; for the South there is only, or SO it seems, a state of anomy or a degree of hopelessness.
10.6 Mr President, next year, 1998, Will be the Year of the Ocean. Tonga, like many others, is preparing a  few things for that occasion - none of them are new, as we live in the Ocean; but it is our hope that UNESCO,  especially the Science Sector, IOC, MOST and others Will provide new thinking and new approaches for policies  and actions to be taken for the benefït of present and future generations. El NiAo - SO ofien talked about these  days - is an old phenomenon that we have lived with for rnany years. It cornes in cycles and starts with us in the  Pacifie Ocean, and although it is a cycle of nature that cannot be eradicated, it is something that greatly affects  our quality of life. Science and technology and the new Unit for Disaster Reduction could be one of the means of  reducing loss of life, damage to schools and property, and social and economic disruption. We welcome the new  charme1 for co-operation and for the development of a culture of prevention as envisaged in the approved  Medium-Term Strategy.
10.7 Mr President, 1 would like to express our appreciation of one particular initiative by the Director-  General in translating UNESCO strategies and programmes within the framework of document 29 C/5 into more  useful and purposefùl terms for the small island developing countries of the Pacifïc. The initiative 1 am referring  to is the ‘Focus on the Pacifie’ Forum to be held on 1 November, which is also the subject of a draft resolution to  the various Commissions which, we hope, Will be approved by the Conference. It should be noted, however,  Mr President, that we in the Pacifie, although we do not particularly welcome it, are used to being swamped by  the Pacifïc Ocean and even more SO from time to time by the El Nuio factor. Perhaps it may not be too much to  expect in this case, Mr President, that El NiAo Will not be a UNESCO phenomenon in relation to Pacifïc States.
10.8 Mr President, Tonga appreciates the decentralization programme established by the Director-General  and also wishes to express its appreciation for the excellent performance of the UNESCO fïeld office for the  Pacifie subregion sited in Samoa. We are sure, however, that its work cari be even more outstanding and more  effective if it is strengthened. In saying this, we are also cognizant of the important role being played by the  Bangkok PROAP Office and the Djakarta Office, especially in relation to Asia-Pacific regional matters.
10.9 Mr President, 1 argued in the 1994-1997 Executive Board meetings and at the 28th session of the  General Conference that the Unit for Relations with Small Member States should be upgraded and strengthened  if it is to meet the real responsibilities and leadership role needed and expected of UNESCO in terms of small  states. Tonga still holds that view.
10.10 1 would like now to comment also on the Ethics of the Future project and the seeming emphasis on the  ethics of science and technology. We suggest that UNESCO should also emphasize the ethics of social change  and social transformation in this age of globalization. Increasing globalization affects different societies  differently and an Ethics of the Future Programme in the sociocultural dimension Will help each of us to examine  alternatives as suggested by Javier Pérez de Cuéllar’s statement that: ‘The choice cari . be for a different style  of development, a different path based . . . on . . . different values frorn those of high income countries . . . The  challenge is . . to promote different paths of development, informed by a recognition of how cultural factors  shape the way in which societies conceive their own future and choose the means to attain those futures’. 1  suggest that UNESCO should take the role of assisting people’in examining alternative choices. It is in the ability  to choose that one has freedom; it is in the ability to live that choice that one has peace. In the present world, the  world of today, with its economic disarray, with the seemingly unchecked growth of political disharmony and  with an exponential growth of freedom from rather than freedom to be, the issue of choice, of human rights,  seems to be a random factor in a theory of chaos.
10.11 Mr President, at the 28th session of the General Conference, Tonga supported the move for reform of  UNESCO. 1 would like to state and express support for the suggestion by the United Kingdom, that we need to  reform, but with the objective of empowerment and cost-effectiveness rather than that of undermining the system;  that the aim is for leaders to be able to lead, rather than merely to carry out an exercise in organizational  downsizing and management procedures. Perhaps we have in many of our meetings, many of our committees and  many of our Board sessions allowed procedures and process to take priority over policy and leadership.
10.12 This is why 1 listened, Mr President, with compassion to the Director-General’s concem that the system  is not flexible enough, with the result that when a Member State’s leader cornes to him on urgent matters because  of problems that were never expected and/or planned for - a11 that the Director-General and the leader cari do is  cry on each other’s shoulders, wish each other well, and then return to their respective Chairs. Mr President, 1  have a distinctive feeling of déjà vu and 1 am sure lots of the people who are here today feel the same. But SO life  goes on. As stated by Kierkegaard: ‘Life cari only be understood backwards. / But it must be lived forwards’. We  understood and we understand. But have we provided UNESCO with the means to allow people just to begin to  ‘live forwards’? Perhaps, Mr President, this Conference, in its own wisdom, cari answer the question.
10.13 Mr President, Tonga, as a representative of the 14 Pacifie Member States was fortunate enough to be  elected to the Executive Board in 1993.1 would like to take this opportunity to thank a11 Member States for their  support, and for the privilege and honour extended to me to serve you during the last four years. 1 sincerely hope  that you Will allow us of the Paciflc the chance again, through Samoa, our candidate, to serve you during the next  four years.
10.14 Mr President, the need to strengthen UNESCO is a fact sui generis. But it is not only in terms of more  resources, nor in terms of science and technology, nor just the educational, cultural and communications  dimension. It must also be more dynamic in its role in the social and ethical dimension; in the vigorous pursuit of  visions and ideals, and delving in depth into the inter being that reminds us that we are human beings. UNESCO  must be more than the House of Intellect - it must be the House of Wisdom.
10.15 Only then cari we hope to dream that commitment and diversions of resources tiom man’s inhumanity  could take us fiuther in the search to provide education for ah, a degree of hope for poverty reduction, move  closer to peace and development, and imprint the message of human rights in the SOU~S of societies. Only then cari  we hope that the rhetoric of Jomtien, Rio, Barbados, Cairo, Beijing and Copenhagen Will become real  commitments and not platforms for another Plan of Action for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 in  another five years time. Only then cari we hope to prove that Anton Chekhov, the famous Russian playwright,  was overly pessimistic when he wrote: ‘Man has been endowed with reason, with the power to create, SO that he  cari add to what he has been given. But up to now, he hasn’t been a creator, only a destroyer’. Perhaps then we  cari accept the seemingly simple challenge implied in Neils Steensen’s seemingly simple statement: ‘Beautitül are  the things we see. More beautifùl the things we understood. Much more beautiful the things we do not  understand’.
10.16 Mr President, even in difficult times economically, both in the South and the North, cari we not say that  we in UNESCO are helping to make the future - incomprehensible as it is - much more beautiful? This 1 suggest,  this 1 believe, is the challenge that faces a11 of us in UNESCO on the threshold of the twenty-ftrst century. Thank  you.
11. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Vice-Premier Ministre. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Vladimir Fortov,  ministre de la science et des technologies de la Fédération de Russie.
3TWIeCKOii MMCCUU IOHECKO BCOBpeMeHHOMMUpe.CeroAHXJl,WI3TOrOeIIIe60nbLUeOCHOBaHUü. Hanopore  XXI BeKa MbI BCe OCTpee OC03HaeM,~TOBCTy~aeMHeTOnbKOBHOBOeTbICINeneTue,HOUBHOBOeCOCTOSIHUe  senorsesecsoü nnannu3anuu. Hepexon ~3~0~~0~0~y~0c~011~1~,KoTopbI#y~eocy~ecTBnrreTcaHaHamkD<  rna3ax, BHymaeT, UoHcanyii, CTOnbKO Xe Hane)Kn, CKOnbKO u TpeBoru. MbI BUAUM 6ecnpeueneHTIsbIe  BOJMOXHOCTU, KOTOpbIe OTKpbIBaeTMUp,BCe6oneeenU~IiiBCBOeMMHOrOO6p~uu.~HuCBII3aH6ICpaCly~eii  B3aUM03aBUCUMOCTbI rOCynapCTB, IIIUpOKUhl paCIIpOCTpaHeHueM ~eHHOCTeüneMOKpaTUUUIlpaB~enOBeKa,C  He6bIBZlJIbIM B3neTOM HapHOrO UTeXHOnOrkFIeCKOrOIlpo~ecca.HoCTOnbH(eO~eTnUBOBW&IbI UOIIaCHOCTU,  co!IyTcTByKwue 3~o~y HOBOMY 3TaIIy: o6ocTpeHne 3KonOrPFJecKOro Kpu3uCa,yrny6neHuenponacTuMemAy
6OraTCTBOM U6e~HOCTbK)BMaCLUTa6~XOTAenbH6IXC~aHuBceroMUpa,KpOBaBbIeperuoH~b~IeKOH~nUKTbI.  HapaCTaeT oqwemse, 'ITO 9enoBeK He nocneBaeT 351 pa3BuTueM ILm3unu3aIWi, ucnbrTbIBa5i pa3nan B  OTHOIIIeHklRXC IIpUpO~Oü,O6IlleCTBOM UCaMUMco6oii.CTparU=lecKUMulIOCne~CTBuRMU3TOtiC~a~UUMbI BCe  =Iame CTaJIKUBaeMCII, KOrAa CTaHOBUMCR CBU~eTen!JMUTeXHOreHHbIXKaTaCTpO~,HaCUlIWl UHeTepI'IUMOCTUHa  MCWHaIWïOHZiJIbHOfi u penUrUO3HOü IIOsBe, TpaHCHaI&fOHWIbHOü npeCTyIIHOCTU, HapKOMaHUU UTeppOpU3Ma.  Bce 3T0 IIOABOAUT K BbIBOAy, 9TO +yHflaMeHTaJIbHOü npo6neuoü HaIIIerO BpeMeHU IIBnSlCTCSI npo6neua  YenOBeKa, a UMeHHO-~OpMUpOBaHUenU‘IHOCTU XXI BeKa.HeTCOMHeHUü,~TOK.iJKNUKeepeLUeHYwCneAyeT  UCKaTb B o6nacTflx KOMlleTeHIlUU HaI.IIeüOp~aHU3aLWu-B o6pa3oBaHun, HayKe,KynbType,KOMhfyHUKaI.IUu. B  CuCTeMe OOH CerOnHII HeT npyroü opraHu3aIwi, KOTOP~X Morna 661 Ha MewocynapcTBeHHoM ypOBHe,B
12.2 Ho, pZl3yMeeTCX, HaIIIa OpraHu3aIW HeMOXCeTXMTbTOJIbKO~eflMuu~eKnapa~uxMu.Heo6xo~uMo  BMAeTb IIcHbIe nepCneKTUBb1 UX BOllJIOIWHUB B H(u3Hb. ~pUBeTCTByRHaMeYeHHyIOHa 1999 rOABceMupHyE0  KOH@epeHnUIO no HayKe, MbI paCCWiTbIBaeM Ha TO, 9TO OHa HeToJlbKonoMo~eTBbIüTuHaHoBbl~~oBCHb  IIOHuMaHWl B3aUMOCBR3eü HayKU Ii pa3BUTW?, HO U AaCT CTpaTerUWCKUe OpUeHTUpbI AJUI pZi3BUTWr  M'SKAyHapOJIHOrO HaYqHOrO COTpyAHU'4eCTBa, B TOM YUCne lIOA yrnOM 3peHWl MOpaJIbHbIX llOCneACTBUii  TeXHOnOrWWKOrO nporpecca. B paMKaX IIOArOTOBKU 3TOfiKOH~epCHIJUUMbI npeAIIonaraeMopraHU30BaTbB  MOCKBe B 1998 roAy l-IOArOTOBuTenbHbIij[ MeHcAyHapOAHbIfi +10pyM, KOTOpbIijI C@OKycUpyeT BHUMaHUe Ha  npo6neMax HayKU B U3MeHXH)IIleMCR Mupe, B~aCTH0CTu~c~paHaxc nepexo~Hofi3~0~0~~~oji. B HacTox~ee  BpeMX B uamet clpaae HawiHaeTcx MacurTa6Haapeopraausa~HayKu,HarrpaBneHHarrHaucnonb3osaHueee  noTeHsuanaBuHTepecaxpa3~u~~~~occuuco~peMe~Ho~pbI~0~HoN3~0~0~~~u,u36aBneH~eeo~u3nunr~e~  MunUTapU3aWU U BbICBO6O)KAeHuR 'ienOBe9eCKUX U MaTepuLlJIbHbIX peCypCOB AJIR yCKOpeHHOr0 C03AaHWl  HayKOeMKUX TeXHOnOruii HOBOrO TbICll'SeneTWI. OT UMeHUIIpaBUTenbCTBaPoccuiic~oii~eAepaQUUXOTen6bI  IIpUrnaCUTb mHECK0 K yYaCTUI0 B pe+OpMUpOBaHUU HaIIIefiHayKU,KOTOpOeMOrnO 6bICTaTbCBOerOpOAa  IIUJIOT-IIpOeKTOM, a, MOXOZT 6bITb, U OTIlpaBHOü TOVKOÜ HOBOrO KpyIlHOrO Me)KAUC~UILRUHapHOrO l-IpOeKTa  KIHECKO no pe@opMupoaaHuw HayKu B nyxe Mupa. C PacTueM IOHECKO Morna6bI6bITb 06pa3osaHa  CTpyKTypa Me)KKnyHapOAHOü IlOlQep)KKU pe(lOpMUpOBaHUR pOCCUfiCKOiiHayKUUCBR3aHHbIXC3TUMIlpOeKTOB.  TaKarr cTpyKTypa, uMeIoulaR xapaKTep hfeXnyHapoAHor0 uHcTuTyTa, 6bIna 6bI HaueneHa Ha npuwereaue  CpeACTB UB03MOHCHOCTeiiMC~~paBUTCnbCTBeHHbIXUHe~aBUTenbCTBeH~IXOpraHU3a~ü,pa3n~HbIX~OHAOB  U YaCTHbIX nUlI C UenbIO UCllOnbSOBaHUJl 3TUX CpeACTB B UHTepeCaX pe$OpMbIHayKUBPOCCuUUCO?AaHEDl  BCeMUpHOfi MOAenU pC~OpMUpOBaH~HayKUB~eMUpa.MbITaKKe~pUBeTCTBOB~U6bIHa~~Ope~U3a~UU  IIpOI'paMMbI B o6nacm IIpeAyIIpeX(AeHUS U nUKBUAaIJUU llOCneACTBUfiCTUXUüHbIX6eACTBufiUTeXHOreHHbIX  KaTacTpoc),ucnonbsyRAns 3Toro none3HbIFionbrTnporpaMMbr “IOHECKO -YepHo6bInb".
12.3 3aKOHOMepH0, 9~0 I~HECKO noJIyqaeT npu3fraHue npexAe BCerO TaM, rAe OHa OKiDbIBaeTCII  cnoco6aoü <<3arnnHyTb 3a ropu30HT", ynoBuTb eue TonbKo HaMeraIouuiecrr Temewuiu. 3To KacaeTcn, B  nepByI0 OrepeAb, npo6neM COBpeMeHHOrO 06pa30BaHuX (&Ha 113 HMX - HeO6XOAuMOCTb yCTpaHUTb  HeCOOTBeTCTBUe MelKKHy 6bICTpbIM pa3BUTUeM COBpeMeHHbIX UH+OpMaLViOHHbIX U KOMMyHUKaLWiOHHbIX  TeXHOnOrUü U AOCTaTOYHO KOHCepBaTuBHbIM 06pa30BaTenbHbIM npOLWCOM. Bawgw pOnb 3AeCb IlpuJBaH  cbIrpaTb MOCKOBCKU~~ HHCTUT~T IOHECKO no uu@opMaI@ïoHHmi TexHonorum B 06pa3osaHuu. XoTen 6bI  eue pa3 JaBepUTb,9TOpOCCUi%CKOe ~paBUTenbCTBOBbI~OnHUTB3RTbIeHace61I0613aTenbCTBa~Oo6ecne~eH~  AtYTenbHOCTU 3TOrO HHCTUTyTa. ~anoM~TaK~e,YTOPOCCWInpeAOCTaBEZnaBpaCnOps~eHUeK>~~~~~CTO  CTuIIeHAUYi AJISI IIOArOTOBKU CIleL[uaJIUCTOB, IIpe)KAe BCerOU3pa3BUBaH)IQUXC>ICTpaH,BTOM4UCneB o6nacTu  UH~OpMaLlUOHHbIXTeXHOnOrUii.
12.4 Pa3AenrreM MHeHUe 0 HeO6XOAUMOCTU UCKaTb 6anaHc Memny o6IueMupoBoN TeHAeHunefi K  uHTepHaUUOHa2W3aIJUU U eCTeCTBeHHbIM CTpeMneHUeM CTpaH u HapOAOB K COXpaHeHUlO KynbTypHOü  CaM06bITHOCTU u R3bIKOBOrO pa3~006pa3MR. TeM 6onee, YTO AeRTenbHOCTb KIHECKO II0 COXpaHeHUKJ  KynbTypuoro u npuponaoro HacneAm, pa3~~~~~e~Kynb~pHoroAu~ora~Bn~eTc~~eo~e~ne~oü~acTb~  BOCFIUTaHURBAyxeMupa,TepIWiMOCTUUyBaWZHkIRIIpaB'IenOBeKa.
12.5 ~eRTenbHOCTb IOHECKO, HeCOMHeHHO, 6yAeT TeM AýrHaMmHee, 4eM aKTUBHee K Hefi 6yAeT  npuo6~aTbca MonofieXb. B 3~0ii CBII~B uauIa aeneraum BHOCUT npennoXïesue 0 nposenemu B 1999 rony  BceMupHoroMonoAe~Horo~opyManoKynbTypeMupa.
12.6 r0cnoAuH LIpeAceAaTenb, 3a nocneneee AecRTuneTue K>HECKO ~~APYKOBOACTBOM reHepaJIbHor0  AUpeKTOpa r-Ha cf>eAepuKo Maiiopa npeononena cepbe3HbIe UCIIbITaHWI, yKpenuB CBO# aBTOpuTeTB rna3ax  Muposoro coo6IuecTBa. OAHO~~CB~A~T~~~CTBTOM~-B~~B~~IIJ~H~~B IOHECKO BenuKo6puTaHuu.~onb3yrrcb  Cny%leM, XOTen 661 eJ.Ue pZi3 llpUBeTCTBOBaTb3TOT IIIar UBbIpa3UTbHaAe~Kny,'STOnpUMepyBenuKo6puTaHuu  n0cnenyro-r ApyruecTpaH6I,KoTopb~e~0~uxnopocTaroTc~BHe HarueüOpraHu3auuu.
12.7 BCnOMHUM, OAHaKO, CnOBaBenUKOrO u3o6peTaTenrrToMaca~AUCOHaOTOM,YTO"6eCnOKOüCTBO-3To  HeyAOBneTBOpeHHOCTb, a HeyAOBneTBOpeHHOCTb- nepBeünIeeycnoBue nporpecca". Hac 6eCnOKOuTHeCOOTBeT-  CTBue MeWJ BCC 6onee IUUpOKUMC~eKTpOM~pO~aMMHO~Ae~TenbHOCTUK)~~~~~UO~aH~CHHOCTbK,eC  (PUHaHCOBbIX peCypCOB. BbIxoA, Ha HaUI B3rnRA, COCTOUT, npe)KAe BCerO, B IlOUCKe BHyTpeHHUX pe3epBOB  IIOBbIUl'ZHIIII 3~~eKTUBHOCTUIIpOIJlaMMHOüAe>ITenbH0CTU. Ee KOHIJeHTpaLWIHaIIpUOpUTeTHbIXHalIpaBneH~x,  coKpaI4eHuen~6bIxHenporpaMMHbrxpacxoAoB- BOT HanpaeneHue,cneny~~~~~pOMy~~~~OcAenaTb m6neMy  IOHECKO eue 6onee npuBneKaTenbHoü Ann rOCyAapCTB-WeHOB. TeM caMbIM, ~03~0~~0, 6y~y~ neme  peLUaTbC5l UCnO~HbIe6lOA~eTHbIeBOIlpOCbI.
12.9 XoTen 6bI TaK pe3IoMupOBaTb HaIIry nosurlYno: IOHECKO 6onee seM KorAa-na60 Heo6xoAuMa  MUpOBoMy COO6IUeCTBy. Ho, 9TO6bI 6bITb Ha BbICOTC B03naraeMbIx Ha Hee HaAelKA, OHa HymAaeTca B  nOCTO5IHHOM COBepLUeHCTBOBaHuU. 3TO TeM 6onee aKTyaJlbH0 B yCJIOBWIx, KOrAapa3Bopa~~aeTcanpo~ecc  pe@OpMUpOBaHWl BCeü CuCTeMbI OpraHuJaIJUu 065eAuHeHHbIX Ha&%. B 3Toü CB113u npUBeTCTByeM  HaMCTUBruyIoCR B nOCJIeAHeC BpeMJl TeHAeHQUlO K nOBbIUIeHUIOpOJIuuoTBeTCTBeHHoCTu~cIloJIHNTeJIbHoro  CoBeTa. npel[naraeM, wO6bI B npeACTO2~ue ABa rOAa kICnOJIHuTeJIbHb&i COBeTCOBMCCTHOC~eHepEiIIbHbIM  AUpeKTOpOM 06AJ'MllJI II IIpeAJIOWUl reHep&lIbHOü KOH$epeHIJuu ITyTU AWIbHeüILlerO pe@OpMUpOBaHU5l  IOHECKO, B nepsym orepenb, nOA yrJIOM 3peHWl COBepIlIeHCTJSOBaHI u nOBbIUIeHW1 3~~eKTUBHOCTu  IIpOl"paMMHOfi AC2TenbHOCTU. npU 3TOM MM He 3aKpbIBaeM rJIa3a Ha TO, 9TO B yJIyWUeHuU HyxAaeTCR U  coTpyAHwecTB0 rocyAapcTB -sneaonK>HECKO,pa6oranx~auriotumbtn,1x KOMIICCN~~.
12.10 rocnoAus FIpeAceAaTenb, Poccwr TBepAO HaMepeHa BbInOlIH5ITb CBOU 06R3aTenbCTBa nepeA  OpraHusauueü, B TOM wfcne +uHaHcoBbIe. B Hatneü crpaae I~HECKO rpaArïrn.ioHHo meeT TnepHyro onopy B  JIuIJe IlFGiBuTClIbCTBa, HaI&iOHanbHOü KOMUCCUU, HayYHOü, neAarOr~eCKOüUKyJIbTypHOüO6~eCTBeHHOCTU,  AeCnTKOB Ka+eAp, accoI.wupoBaHHbrx n.IKon, accou,uaquü u KJI~~OB. lloATBepHcAeHue TOME - ycnex  COCTOBBILIEIXCB B HaWIe 1997 rOAa “flHeÜK)HECKO B POCCuUw.
12.11 HaM BCerAa UMnOHUpOBELW uIupoTa B3rJUIAOB KIHECKO Ha MUpOBbIe npO6neMbI UHOBaTOpCKuü  nOAXOA K EIX peIIIeHUl0. MbI y6exAeHbI: UMeHHO Ha 3TOM IIyTu, npOBOm B HCU3Hb U3BeCTHbIü npUHI&un:  L(MbICJIUTb rJIO6aJIbHO - AeüCTBOBaTb JIOKliJIbHO", C09eTâII UHTeJIJICKTyZiJIbHOe U HpaBCTBeHHOe Ha%iJIa C
(12.1) Mr FORTOV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, two years ago, when we celebrated UNESCO’s tïftieth anniversary,  the idea that UNESCO’s intellectual and ethical mission in the modem world was growing in signifïcance was  expressed from this rostrum. Today, there are even more grounds for saying SO. On the threshold of the twenty-fïrst  Century, we are coming to the increasingly clear realization that we are entering not only a new millennium, but a  new stage in human civilization. The transition to this new stage, which is already taking place before our very  eyes, arouses perhaps as much hope as it does fear. We are seeing unprecedented opportunities offered by a world  more united than ever in its divers@, which are linked to the growing interdependence of states, the widespread  dissemination of the values of democracy and human rights, and the exceptional take-off of scientific and  technological progress. Equally clear, however, are the dangers that have corne with this new stage: the worsening  of the ecological crisis, the widening of the gap between rich and poor, both within individual countries and  worldwide, and bloody regional conflicts. There is a growing feeling that people are not keeping pace with the  development of civilization, are out of tune with nature, society and themselves. We are more and more often  confronted with the tragic consequences of this situation, as we witness technogenic disasters, violence and  intolerance on inter-ethnie or religious grounds, transnational crime, drug addiction and terrorism. It a11 leads to the  conclusion that the fimdamental problem of our time is the problem of Homo supiens, and, more specitïcally, the  shaping of the individual of the twenty-fïrst Century. There is no doubt that the keys to resolving this problem are to  be sought in the tïelds of competence of our Organization - in education, science, culture and communication.  There is no other organization in the United Nations system today which, at the intergovernmental level and in a  universal, depoliticized context, could put the world’s intellectual and moral potential to work for those ends. That  is why we cherish UNESCO’s efforts to keep faith with its original mandate, and not to transform itself into just  another technical agency, and that is why we support UNESCO programmes and initiatives such as the creation of  a culture of peace and the framing of the declarations on the human genome and on the responsibilities of the  present generations towards future generations.
(12.2) However, our Organization obviously cannot live on ideas and declarations alone - it is essential to have  a clear notion of how to bring them about. We therefore welcome the World Science Conference, scheduled for
1999, in the expectation that it Will not only raise our understanding of the interconnections between science and  development to a new level, but give strategic guidance for the development of international scientifïc co-operation,  notably from the viewpoint of the moral consequences of technological progress. As part of the run-up to the  Conference, we propose to hold a preparatory international forum in Moscow in 1998 to focus attention on the  problems of science in a changing world, in particular in countries with economies in transition. At the moment, the  Russian Federation is embarking upon a wholesale reorganization of science, aimed at using its potential in the  interests of developing a modem market economy in Russia, delivering it from excessive militarization and  releasing human and material resources to speed up the creation of the new millennium’s science-based  technologies. On behalf of the Govemment of the Russian Federation, 1 would like to invite UNESCO to take part  in reforming our science, which could become a kind of pilot project and, possibly, the starting point for a new,  major transdisciplinary UNESCO project on the reform of science for peace. With UNESCO’s participation, an
405  - -,-. ---~    international support structure for the reform of Russian science and related projects could be set up. Such a  structure, in the form of an international institute, would aim to attract financing and resources from  intergovemmental and non-govemmental organizations, fùnds and individuals for the purpose of reforming science  in Russia and establishing a global mode1 for the reform of science for peace. We would also welcome the launch  of a programme designed to provide warning and alleviate the consequences of natural and technogenic disasters,  making use of the valuable experience of the UNESCO Chemobyl Programme for that purpose.
(12.3) UNESCO typically receives recognition above a11 when it demonstrates its ability to ‘look beyond the  horizon’, and identify trends which are still only emerging. This applies, first of all, to the problems of  contemporary education. One of them is the need to bridge the gap between the rapidly developing modem  information and communication technologies and a rather conservative educational process. The Moscow  UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education should play a key role hem. 1 would like to confirm  once again that the Russian Govemment Will meet its obligations concerning the support of the Institute’s  activities. 1 would also like to remind you that Russia has placed at UNESCO’s disposa1 100 fellowships to train  specialists, above all from developing countries, in such fields as information technology.
(12.4) We share the view that there is a need to strike a balance between the world trend towards globalization  and the natural desire of countries and peoples to preserve their cultural identity and linguistic diversity. The more  SO in that UNESCO’s activities to conserve the cultural and natural heritage and to develop intercultural dialogue  are an integral part of education for peace, tolerance and respect for human rights.
(12.5) UNESCO’s activities Will certainly be all the more dynamic and lively if Young people are involved in  them. In that connection, our delegation proposes that a World Youth Forum on the culture of peace be held in
(12.6) Mr President, in the past ten years UNESCO, under the leadership of the Director-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, has corne through some serious difficulties with its authority strengthened in the eyes of the international  commun@. The retum to UNESCO of the United Kingdom is a demonstration of this. 1 should like to take this  opportunity to welcome that step once again and to express the hope that the example of the United Kingdom Will  be followed by other countries which still remain outside our Organization.
(12.7) 1 would remind you, however, of the words of that great inventor, Thomas Edison, who said that concem  meant dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction was the first condition of progress. We are concemed about the gap  between the ever-widening range of UNESCO programme activities and its limited financial resources. The  solution, as we see it, lies first and foremost in seeking interna1 reserves to make programme activities more  effective. Concentration on priority actions and the reduction of non-programme expenditure are the means by  which the UNESCO image cari be made even more attractive to its Member States, and in the process it may even  become easier to resolve complicated budgetary issues.
(12.8) UNESCO, like any other international organization, is ill-served by bureaucratization and the  transformation of its staff structure into an ‘inverted pyramid’. And like any other organization, it needs a constant  flow of fresh and creative people.
(12.9) 1 would sum up our position as follows: UNESCO is needed by the international commun@ as never  before. However, in order to meet the high hopes placed in it, it has to be continuously improved, particularly at a  time when the entire United Nations system is undergoing reforrn. In this context, we welcome the recent trend  towards enhancing the role and responsibility of the Executive Board. We suggest that over the next two years the  Executive Board and the Director-General should together consider and submit to the General Conference ways of  tûrther reforming UNESCO, in the tïrst place from the standpoint of improving and enhancing the effectiveness of  programme activities. This does not mean that we are losing sight of the fact that the co-operation of UNESCO  Member States and the work of their National Commissions must also be improved.
(12.10) Mr President, Russia is determined to meet its obligations to the Organization, including its fïnancial  obligations. In our country, UNESCO traditionally enjoys the strong support of the govemment, the National  Commission, the scientitïc, educational and cultural communities, dozens of univers@ departments and UNESCO  Associated Schools, Associations and Clubs. This was confirmed by the success of the ‘UNESCO Days in Russia’,  held in early 1997.
(12.11) We have always been impressed by UNESCO’s broad take on world problems and its innovative  approach to solving them. We are convinced that by following this path, by applying the well-known principle  ‘think globally - act locally’, by combining intellectual and moral principles with effective and practical targeted  activities, our Organization cari ever more successtùlly accomplish its lofty mission. Thank you for your attention.
13. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Abderahim Bireme Hamid,  ministre des enseignements de base et secondaire et de l’alphabétisation du Tchad.
14.1 M. HAMID (Tchad) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général de I’UNESCO,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, honorables délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, l’honneur m’échoit au nom de  la délégation de la République du Tchad de prendre la parole en ce moment historique que constitue la tenue de  la 29e session. de la Conférence générale. A cette auguste assemblée de sommités scientifiques, culturelles et de  grands hommes politiques, j’adresse les chaleureuses et déférentes salutations .des peuples tchadiens. Dans ce  propos liminaire, je tiens à m’acquitter d’un agréable devoir, celui de présenter, au nom de S. Ext. M. Idriss  Deby, président de la République du Tchad, et de son gouvernement, nos vives félicitations à M. Portella pour sa  brillante élection à la présidence de nos travaux. Je ne saurais passer sous silence le rôle particulièrement  déterminant que joue le Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor. Sous sa clairvoyante direction, I’UNESCO est  devenue aujourd’hui l’instrument incontournable de la paix. Je me réjouis enfin du retour du Royaume-Uni de  Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord ainsi que de l’admission de Nauru dans notre grande Organisation.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, la paix est une aspiration légitime  de notre monde. Pour avoir connu plus de trois décennies de déchirements internes, la République du Tchad en  appelle à la conscience de chacun de nous pour que, désormais, la violence politique soit rangée définitivement  au musée de l’histoire. L’amère expérience que nous avons vécue nous a enseigné que la gestion politique  consensuelle est la seule voie qui mène vers le progrès et le développement. C’est celle que nous avons choisie  depuis le ler décembre 1990 en mettant un terme à la dictature. Les résultats que nous avons obtenus sont là :  une constitution a été adoptée le 3 1 mars 1996 ; des élections présidentielles et législatives nous ont permis de  doter le pays d’institutions politiques fondamentales. Au moment où je vous parle, la première Assemblée  nationale, démocratiquement élue, tient sa session budgétaire. Mais nous sommes conscients des limites que nous  impose la reconstruction du pays. Nous nous sommes donc soumis à l’ajustement structurel. La lutte contre la  pauvreté, que nous prônons comme le défi majeur à relever, nous permet d’en atténuer les conséquences sur les  populations. C’est ainsi que l’éducation, la santé, l’action sociale et les communications sont élevées au rang des  priorités premières.
14.3 Dans cette oeuvre de renaissance nationale, nous enregistrons avec beaucoup de satisfaction le rôle joué  par I’UNESCO et les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies pour nous soutenir dans la réflexion,  l’élaboration et la mise en oeuvre de stratégies adaptées au niveau de développement du pays. Ce niveau de  développement nous a conduits à rechercher une constante adéquation entre l’éducation, la formation et l’emploi.  Depuis la fin de l’année 1990, une stratégie nationale intitulée “Education et formation en liaison avec l’emploi”  est arrêtée et pratiquée sur le terrain. Dans cette stratégie nationale délibérément volontariste, nous considérons  comme essentielles les questions suivantes : l’éducation de base pour tous, la scolarisation des filles, l’éducation  des adultes, le sort des régions naturellement défavorisées et le partenariat avec les initiatives privées. Dans la  pratique, nous avons consenti des efforts soutenus en faveur de l’éducation. La part du budget de 1’Etat consacrée  à l’éducation, qui était de 13 % en 1989, devrait croître pour atteindre au moins 20 % en l’an 2000. Et cela, grâce  à la réduction des dépenses militaires, qui est activement recherchée par des opérations de démobilisation et de  réinsertion des effectifs de l’armée’ nationale. Malgré ces efforts, beaucoup reste encore à faire. Seulement un  enfant d’âge scolaire sur deux est effectivement inscrit à l’école. Les conditions d’étude demeurent précaires à  tous les niveaux du système éducatif, du fait du manque de moyens appropriés sur le plan des infrastructures, du  personnel et de l’équipement. C’est pourquoi nous poursuivons nos efforts en vue de réajuster notre stratégie  d’éducation et de formation.
14.4 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays fonde de légitimes  espoirs en I’UNESCO pour l’amélioration de son développement éducatif et culturel. Cette conviction a conduit  mon gouvernement à nommer une délégation permanente auprès du Siège. Les premières initiatives de cette  délégation renforcent cette conviction. Une mission de haut niveau vient de séjourner au Tchad. Elle nous a offert  l’occasion d’approfondir notre réflexion sur la lutte contre la pauvreté parmi la jeunesse, plus particulièrement la  jeunesse féminine. Nous pensons renforcer cette démarche avec la visite escomptée de M. le Directeur général,  suite à l’invitation que mon gouvernement lui a déjà adressée au début de cette année, lors de la présentation par  notre Ambassadeur délégué permanent, M. Ornas Zeidan, de ses lettres de créance. Je suis heureux de renouveler  aujourd’hui solennellement cette invitation devant notre auguste assemblée. En réitérant cette invitation, je  voudrais en appeler à la communauté internationale pour qu’elle nous assiste dans la recherche de la perfection.  Cette recherche porte sur des sujets variés : premièrement, la prochaine tenue à Genève, dans le courant de  l’année 1998, d’une table ronde, à l’occasion de laquelle nos partenaires auront le loisir de mesurer le chemin que  nous avons parcouru, nos options de développement et les dispositions à prendre pour mieux faire ;  deuxièmement, la gestion concertée d’une richesse naturelle comme celle des eaux du lac Tchad pour laquelle  une initiative est en cours au Siège ; troisièmement, la volonté du gouvernement du Tchad de disposer de  ressources propres pour conduire le développement du pays. Et ici, je tiens à m’élever de la manière la plus  énergique contre la campagne de déstabilisation pratiquée dans ce domaine, sous le couvert de la protection de
407    l’environnement, pour décourager l’exploitation du pétrole. Nous n’avons pas l’intention de transformer le Tchad  en un pays désertique. La lutte contre la désertification est une de nos options politiques majeures. Une  législation existe à ce sujet, et dans le cadre du projet pétrolier, il a été créé une commission nationale dont les  membres sont étroitement associés au pilotage des dossiers montes par les pétroliers. Nous invitons tous ceux qui  doutent à nous rendre visite et à estimer la situation sur place ; quatrièmement, l’attention à accorder à la  jeunesse. Car ce que nous faisons aujourd’hui doit préserver l’avenir. Et nous nous rejouissons que la 29e session  de la Conference générale ait pour théme “L’UNESCO et la jeunesse”. En effet, comme l’arappelé S. Ext.  M. Idriss Deby, président de la République du Tchad, “le meilleur terreau de l’integration nationale, c’est  assurément la jeunesse qui est plus réceptive aux idées nouvelles et qui est plus apte a les mettre en pratique”. En  mettant l’accent sur la jeunesse, le gouvernement de la République du Tchad veut rompre avec les pratiques du  passé qui ont divisé les Tchadiens sur le fondement des clivages ethniques, religieux, régionaux ou culturels.
14.5 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, les quatre points soumis à votre  attention ne nous font pas perdre de vue la nécessité d’une action d’envergure internationale pour préserver les  acquis et placer nos Etats définitivement sur la voie du développement. Cette nécessité requiert que des  engagements internationaux soient effectivement traduits dans les faits. Je pense a cet Cgard particulièrement à la  Décennie de l’éducation en Afrique. Je pense aussi à la suite à donner aux résolutions du Sommet de Hambourg  sur l’éducation des adultes. Il est plus que temps que la priorité accordée au développement de l’Afrique se  concrétise. L’analphabétisme qui frappe encore la majorite de nos populations, le défi de la mondialisation, les  faiblesses structurelles des économies africaines sont autant de préoccupations. Au-delà de l’action humanitaire  fortement médiatisée, c’est une véritable guerre que nous avons à déclarer aux mauvaises performances atïicaines  si nous voulons entrer dans le XXIe siècle sûrs de nos choix et confiants dans l’avenir de notre jeunesse. Je ne  doute pas de la pertinence des résultats qui sortiront de nos travaux et, pour ce faire, je souhaite plein succès à  nos assises. Vive WNESCO ! Vive la coopération internationale pour l’instauration d’une culture de la paix ! Je  vous remercie.
15. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant, je donne la parole à S. Ext. le Dr Nicasio Urbina Guerrero,  ambassadeur, représentant permanent adjoint du Nicaragua auprès des Nations Unies.
(16.1) Mr URBINA GUERRERO (Nicaragua) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  distinguished members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr President, 1 should like to congratulate  you on having been, elected to preside over this 29th session of the General Conference and 1 wish you every  success in your work. Mr Director-General, 1 should like to congratulate you too for the way in which you have led  our Organization during the past few years.
(16.2) 1 feel honoured to take the floor at this plenary meeting of the 29th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO and, on behalf of my govemment and the people of Nicaragua, 1 should like to pay homage to this  monument of tolerance and respect among human beings. The fact that Nicaragua lives in peace today and has a  democratic govemment is due, in large measure, to the co-operation activities of the United Nations which, for  many years, has maintained a very important presence in Nicaraguan society.
(16.3) ‘The pastoral voice of America’, as the great Pablo Neruda called it, Nicaragua is a land of poets, of men  and women who are in continuous daily contact with letters despite the fact that one third of our population is  unable to decipher the six signs which make up the name of our Organization. Although they are illiterate, our  workers and peasants know and love the great poet Rubén Dario, worship culture and literature, and are enriched in  their daily lives by a hugely Sign&ant and important oral culture. Nonetheless, they live in poverty. Nicaragua is  not a poor country, but a country impoverished by the maladministration and plundering of previous govemments.  While it is truc that we need capital investment and business management, above a11 else we need to invest in our  human assets, we need to educate our people, we need to prepare them for a productive life, with specific skills and  general training, SO that they cari live a life worthy of human beings and feel that they have a righttül place in this  world. TO this end, our mutual relationship with UNESCO should become closer and wider, should be more  assiduous and intense, and should grow in scope and magnitude,
(16.4) The Govemment of President AIeman is clearly and strongly committed to improving the education of the  Nicaraguan people because we know that this is the only way of leaving underdevelopment behind. This is why the  only ministry to have its budgetary allocation increased in the 1998 budget is the Ministry of Education. In a period  of austerity and enormous financial pressure, we in Nicaragua are trying to improve our system of public education,  trying to reach the greatest number of boys and girls of school age, promoting a culture of peace, and attempting to  uproot the monsters sown in the minds of our Young people by years of war and revolutionary violence. Like  almost a11 of Latin America, Nicaragua is now a democracy, but however Splendid the progress achieved, we still  have to consolidate these beginnings, we still have to shore up the edifïce of democracy, raising the level of  education of our citizens and strengthening democratic institutions. Without education for ah, there is no  democracy. This is the reason why UNESCO has to play a more active and intense role in Nicaragua. For oui part,  we have managed with great difficulty to pay our contributions to the Organization, and we would like to be  involved in the various organs of UNESCO, for which we request the fïrm and immediate support of the  international community.
(16.5) In Nicaragua we are currently preparing a large-scale educational reform, which gives priority to primary  education, employing dynamic and co-participatory methods. Under this initiative, 1 should like to acknowledge the  support given by the Netherlands to the ‘System for the Improvement of Education in Nicaragua’, which bas had  considerable impact on primary education in my country. Since education and health are two variables that should  go hand in hand, the Ministry of Education and the Minis@ of Health of Nicaragua have signed an agreement to  co-ordinate their efforts to improve the health and education of Nicaraguan children. The priority areas of these  programmes are infant vaccination, hygiene, nutrition and environmental education. Mr President, secondary  education and vocational technical training in Nicaragua have to be better adapted to the country’s needs and’the  pupils’ backgrounds in order to lower the drop-out rate and improve the quality of teaching. In this context, my  govemment would like to thank the Govemment of Finland once again for the support it has given to the  Vocational Training Centre for Technical and Scientific Creativity and to the National Strategy for Adult Education  and Literacy. We would also like to develop university education of a high academic standard, which is responsible  for the teaching provided, efficient, at the service of Nicaraguan students, and free from any political manipulation.
(16.6) Mr President, UNESCO has made a substantial contribution to education in Nicaragua: since the mid-
1950s with the Associated Teacher Training Schools Project and the Major Project on the Extension and  Improvement of Primary Education in Latin America and the Caribbean; for the 1975-1980 period, mention should  be made of the Centra1 American network of education systems project which promoted the integration of  education systems in the region and helped ta implement out-of-school activities which had considerable impact in  rural areas. However, the wars against dictatorships, of both lefi and right, had a devastating effect on Nicaraguan  society, not only destroying its economic infrastructure but also affecting the national education system. In  Nicaragua, only 11.5 per cent of the national budget was devoted to education, while the army devoured almost
49 per cent. Between 198 1 and 1991, Nicaragua fell behind by 2 1 years in terms of development and productivity,  while the fimds devoted to education declined by 38 per cent in relation to gross domestic product. Since then,  however, there has been a perceptible qualitative and quantitative improvement, partly due to the initiatives  stemming from the World Conference on Education for Al1 and the eight projects under UNESCO’s Culture of  Peace Programme.
(16.7) Nevertheless, Mr President, Mr Director-General, there is still much to be done. Nicaragua is today the  second poorest country of Latin America, with 70 per cent of its population living below the poverty line.  Furthermore, 45 per cent of our population is under 15, which means that we have some 2 million people of school  age. Of these, at least 300,000 have no access to any forrn of education, and 30 per cent ofthe population is  functionally illiterate. The situation is even more alanning when we consider that primary-school teachers eam $50  a month, and that the teaching stafffind themselves in a deplorable situation.
(16.8) Distinguished delegates, in order to salve these problems, the govemment of President Amoldo Alemti  Lacayo is taking immediate steps to increase the capacity of the public education system by investing more in  school infrastructure and providing more and better education for the people of Nicaragua. UNESCO bas co-  operated with my country in the context of the ‘Education for a11 throughout life’ programme and other  transdisciplinary programmes. However, the educational situation in Nicaragua calls for urgent assistance, which is  why we have to create closer relations with the Organization. Today more than ever before we stand in need of  greater technical assistance, wiser investment of resources and more training for teaching staff so that, together with  the basic cognitive skills, we cari continue to develop practical skills and moral values. This is the, only way in  which we cari construct a genuine culture of peace in Nicaragua, SO that the ‘Great Fatherland’ dreamt of by Rubén  Dario cari become a reality in the Nicaragua of the twenty-tïrst Century. Thank you very much.
17. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur 1’Ambassadeur. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. Mme Fiamé N. Mata’afa,  ministre de l’éducation du Samoa.
18.1 MS MATA’AFA (Samoa):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, ministers and heads of  delegation, Mr Director-General, distinguished guests and officia1 observers, ladies and gentlemen, the  delegation of the Independent State of Samoa warmly congratulates you, Mr President, on your election to the  presidency of the General Conference. 1 see, Mr President, that many of the speakers on today’s list are fiom the  smaller Member States of UNESCO. 1 am happy to join with tbose colleagues not only fiom my region of the  Pacifïc but also those from the Caribbean, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean and the Afiican continent to bring  a small-state perspective to the work of UNESCO. Small-state development issues have been a recurrent theme in  most Pacifie state interventions for the past 12 years and 1 Will accordingly not repeat them here. Rather, 1 Will  use the phenomenon of smallness and its associated vulnerability as a metaphor to talk about a larger issue of  concem not only to my country but to the entire Pacifie region. 1 refer to the vulnerability-empowerment  dichotomy.
18.2 Empowerment has become something of a ‘buzz-Word’ in development circles. In its July 1997 Report  on the Future of Small States, which was recently endorsed at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting  in Edinburgh just this past weekend, the Commonwealth Advisory Group stressed what surely ought by now to  be regarded as a truism but which instead seems strangely forgotten in the actual practice of development  assistance: ‘Empowerment of the people’, it says, ‘is at the heart of development’. Rather familiar, is it not, but  perhaps not less SO than the concept of ‘vulnerability’, a no less familiar lament of smaller states. Curiously, the  two expressions are rarely if ever linked. Overlooked, or at any rate discounted, is that a goodly part of our  vulnerability traces back to the dysfimctions inherent in the mariner in which we, the Pacifïc states, interact with  UNESCO’s decision-making bodies. There seems to exist less of a partnership than a regimental command  structure. As if our great distance from the centres of policy formation and resource allocation were not sufflcient  obstacles by themselves, we seem, year in year out, to sit by our mailboxes and our fax machines waiting to see  what Paris has decided to do with our requests. Not that we have not been consulted, Mr President; indeed we  have, and for many years.
18.3 Prior to the opening of the Apia Office in 1984, Pacifïc issues were typically handled in the context of  regional Asia-Pacific consultations and consequently tended to be lost in the morass of those of our macro-state  neighbours. The Apia Office made a case for addressing the specifïcity of our region through regular  consultations. They commenced 13 years ago and while they continue to this day, a large piece of the puzzle is  still missing. As students of management-theory Will confirm, true participatory decision-making of the type  implicit in any approach to endogenous development must go beyond simple consultation. Consultation followed  by unilateral decision-making has no more than the appearance of a fully democratic procedure. Participatory  decision-making cari only be said truly to exist when the actual decision itself is vested in a11 those it Will  ultimately affect. The Pacifïc island states ask, therefore, that they be given a fieer hand in determining their own  response thereto, SO that, unfettered by the tight controls within which current administrative procedures force us  to operate today, they cari, through increased empowerment, better shape their own future. What then might be  the more immediate implications of my remarks?
18.4 For Samoa’s part, Mr President, beyond the recognized need to establish and monitor budgetary  expenditure levels, we see no defensible justification for time and money being spent by Headquarters staff  ruminating on the biennial work plans for our subregion. CO-ordination with the Apia Pacitïc region programmes  cari be handled by Apia, Jakarta and Bangkok directly. Similarly, we ask that Headquarters relinquish its control  of the allocation of Participation Programme funds to the Pacifïc to the Apia Office and the states that it serves.  Once the budget ceilings have been established, the entire sum should be decentralized, and left decentralized.
18.5 Similarly, the practice of charging overhead costs which benefit Headquarters alone seems likewise  difficult to defend, even on management grounds. Many potential bilateral donors to UNESCO’s programme in  the Pacifie hold back when they leam that some of their tünds must go to Paris in the form of agency costs. There  are precedents for what 1 seek, Mr President, as the Comptroller Will be aware, but 1 Will not detail them here in  this forum. Samoa thus urges some frank and transparent discussion on this overarching and vital issue. Lefi  unresolved, it aggravates more than it alleviates our vulnerability.
18.6 Mr President, Pacifïc subregional co-operation extends to our having agreed that a single Pacifie state  would speak for the whole group in each of the various programme commissions. 1 do not, therefore, propose to  duplicate their work, but to share four general observations. The first concems the decisions to include literacy as  part of the UNESCO-designed Pacifïc regional basic education, the so-called ‘BELS’ programme funded by  UNDP and others. We applaud this initiative because it links three distinct flagship programmes, namely:  Education for Al1 (EFA), poverty alleviation and youth. Let me further explain myself. Like other Pacitïc states,  Samoa experiences extensive problems of substandard in-school reading. They are at the root of the drop-out  phenomenon and are the seedbed of youth alienation. Acceptable levels of in-school literacy and numeracy  improve student participation, reduce drop-out levels and slow the growth of unemployment. Strengthening in-  school literacy skills, then, demonstrably correlates to the socio-economic integration of out-of-school youth.
18.7 Second, Samoa welcomes the planned new youth programme for the above reasons. We fear, however,  that the budgetary provision foreseen in document 29 C/5 falls well short of the critical mass needed for its  success. May 1 therefore express the hope that a less wooden approach might be taken in determining how its  resource base might be established. Might not those responsible for the coastal-zone, disaster-preparedness and  media-strengthening programmes, to name but a few, rethink how youth empowerment could be incorporated  into their various programmes? Afier all, out-of-school youth as a group constitutes both the greatest potential  obstacle to the success of these programmes and the primary means for realizing them.
18.8 Third, 1 wish to draw attention to what seems to me a hitherto missed opportunity for UNESCO to  achieve a greater impact in the Pacifïc in the fïeld of communications. 1 refer to the formulation of a coherent  Pacitïc communications and information policy, which 1 consider to be a singularly cost-effective way of using  our limited resources and politically appealing to our subregion because of its multilateral credentials. Through  training and the promotion of subregional access to and exchange of information, UNESCO has long supported  capacity-building, thanks largely to IPDC. But it seems to me that, without reference to a rigorous Pacifïc-needs  analysis, our approach to the problem is a trifle haphazard. In the absence of a policy of our own, the door is left  open to the extemal forces which contribute to the erosion of our cultures.
18.9 Fourth and fmally, Mr President, a word on the culture of peace. The Pacifïc is not without its faults, but  we have some good points which are worth mentioning in the House of UNESCO. Our democratic institutions  are in place and generally tûnction well. Our overall record on human rights is good. Evidence of our ability to  co-operate takes the form of the massive and co-ordinated Pacifïc support for the ideals and work of UNESCO  shown by the response of our region’s 14 Member States to the Cl5 consultation. Fundamental differences  certainly exist between our countries but we take pride in our success in making a way of life out of diversity. TO  borrow an image from the Lebanese writer, Khalil Gebran, we accept that each of us Will, like the individual  strings on a guitar, sound their own individual notes but, played together, Will produce enviable harmonies. Our  region still has much to leam about the very point 1 made in my opening remarks, namely empowerment.  Tradition and clannishness do indeed seem sometimes to work against our own aspirations. Still and all,  Mr President, with a11 our faults and recognizing that we are but a microcosm in contrast to our Asian brethren,  we feel that the Pacifie states have sketched the outlines of a socio-economic mode1 that constitutes a living  culture of peace.
18.10 For that reason, we invite UNESCO’s community of nations to take a closer look at us - at our  shortcomings for such lessons as they may hold, but especially at our successes. We have received much from  UNESCO in the past and dare hope to do SO in the future; but we also wish to retum its many kindnesses. Might  the sharing of our own interpretation of the practical meaning of the culture of peace be one way? 1 thank you a11  for your attention and wish you a11 a successtùl Conference.
19. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Madame. Et maintenant, je donne la parole au Professeur Augustin Kamara Rwakaikara, ministre  de l’éducation nationale de la République démocratique du Congo.
20.1 M. RWAKAIKARA (Republique démocratique du Congo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur genéral, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, distingués délégués, Mesdames,  Mesdemoiselles et Messieurs, nous voudrions tout d’abord nous acquitter d’un agréable devoir, celui de vous  adresser, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence genérale, toutes nos sincères félicitations pour votre brillante  élection à la tête de cette 29e session de la Conference générale. Ce choix traduit la confiance que tous nous vous  témoignons. Ces félicitations, nous les adressons également aux membres de votre Bureau. Nous félicitons aussi  M. le Directeur général et ses collègues du Secrétariat pour le travail accompli en vue de préparer les présentes  assises, ainsi que pour la qualité des documents fournis. Nous ne saurions, par ailleurs, passer sous silence la  remarquable contribution apportée à notre Organisation par M. Torben Krogh, président sortant de la Conférence  génerale. Qu’il veuille bien lui aussi accepter l’expression de nos congratulations les plus sincéres. Nous saluons  le retour du Royaume-Uni au sein de notre Organisation.
20.2 Cinq mois aprés le changement survenu dans notre pays, c’est avec beaucoup d’espoir que moi-même et  la délégation qui m’accompagne participons à cette 29e session de la Conférence générale de 1’UNESCO. En  effet, le 17 mai 1997 a marque la renaissance de la République démocratique du Congo, après la chute d’un  régime qui, 32 ans durant, avait érigé l’irresponsabilité, l’insouciance, le mensonge, la corruption et la  dilapidation des fonds publics en principes de gestion, ce qui a plongé ce grand pays qui faisait jadis l’honneur du  continent africain dans le gouflke où il se trouve encore aujourd’hui. La tâche urgente du premier gouvernement  de la troisieme République est à présent de reconstruire la nation en mobilisant tous les fils et filles du pays. Cet  objectif, nous espérons l’atteindre aussi grâce à l’appui de toutes les personnes de bonne volonté et de tous les  amis qui, à travers le monde, ne cessent de déplorer le sort qu’a connu le peuple congolais durant la féroce  dictature qui lui a fait perdre sa dignité.
20.3 Notre pays adresse ses vifs remerciements à I’UNESCO pour sa présence constante à ses côtés et son  appui renouvelé à chaque étape de son existence depuis l’accession à l’indépendance. Nous voudrions donc, au  nom de la République démocratique du Congo, réitérer notre attachement aux idéaux de I’UNESCO. NOUS  saisissons aussi l’occasion pour inviter solennellement I’UNESCO a venir participer à la Conférence nationale sur  la reconstruction que nous organisons au mois de décembre prochain. En réaffhmant, du haut de cette tribune,  notre adhésion aux idéaux de I’UNESCO, nous voulons dissiper tout malentendu, apaiser les esprits et rassurer  tous nos partenaires en leur disant que l’action du gouvernement de salut public que dirige S. Ext. le Président de  la République Laurent Désiré Kabila ne vise que la revalorisation du Congolais et la reconstruction de notre  patrie détruite par un système ignominieux. Dans ce contexte, tout ce qui touche à la dignité humaine nous  préoccupe au premier chef.
20.4 Les différents points inscrits à l’ordre du jour de la présente session traduisent la volonté de notre  Organisation de promouvoir toujours davantage la paix, la tolerance et la solidaritt entre les nations par  l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication. Nos diverses contributions à ces assises seront présentées  par nos experts dans les différentes commissions. Elles ont été formulées avec le souci d’améliorer le  fonctionnement de notre Organisation. Faute de temps, nous nous bornerons à en indiquer les grandes lignes.
20.5 Concernant l’orientation générale du programme, nous suggérons de réfléchir à la concentration des  activités. En effet, avec quatre grands programmes sur les 13 qui existaient en 1988-1989 et deux projets  transdisciplinaires sur 5 1, peut-être avons-nous atteint le seuil. Nous demandons aussi que l’on prête une plus  grande attention aux études prospectives puisque l’anticipation est l’un des principes retenus par l’Organisation.
20.6 S’agissant des différents grands programmes et projets transdisciplinaires, nous avons formulé un certain  nombre de propositions. C’est ainsi que, dans le cadre du grand programme 1, “L’éducation pour tous tout au long  de la vie”, nous avons évoqué la nécessité d’appliquer des stratégies novatrices pour sortir les systèmes educatifs  de l’impasse où ils se trouvent. Grâce à l’assistance de I’UNESCO et l’appui du PNUD, la République  démocratique du Congo est en train de mettre en place un nouveau système éducatif conçu en fonction des  réalités et des besoins nationaux.
20.7 Au titre du grand programme II, “Les sciences au service du développement”, nous rappelons  l’importance que notre gouvernement attache à la forêt. Aussi nous rCaffkrnons notre volonté de créer, avec  l’appui de I’UNESCO, 1’Ecole régionale postuniversitaire d’aménagement intégre des forêts tropicales. NOUS
413  .- - _._.-__ ----.. -I_    invitons solennellement les pays africains à s’associer davantage à sa concrétisation et, plus tard, à son  rayonnement au profit de notre continent.
20.8 Dans chacun de ces deux domaines, la République démocratique du Congo, avec l’appui de KJNESCO,  a sollicité et obtenu une aide du PNUD, qui servira à financer le processus de reconstruction du système éducatif  et l’ouverture, l’an prochain, de l’Ecole régionale postuniversitaire d’aménagement intégré des forêts tropicales.  Nous invitons aussi la communauté internationale à nous aider à réhabiliter nos sites touristiques détruits par la  présence massive de réfugiés.
20.9 Nous avons apporté notre appui au programme sur la culture de la paix en insistant pour que celui-ci  s’attaque à toutes les formes de violence, même celles, plus subtiles, qui consistent à maintenir les autres peuples  dans la pauvreté et la misère en encourageant l’égoïsme dans les relations économiques internationales.
20.10 Nous avons évoqué aussi le problème toujours pendant de la décentralisation des activités de  l’Organisation. La République démocratique du Congo soutient qu’il n’y a réellement décentralisation que si les  commissions nationales sont effectivement associées à l’exécution des activités. La solution ne réside donc pas  dans la multiplication des bureaux hors Siège mais dans le renforcement de ceux qui existent déjà, afin qu’ils  soient en mesure d’aider les commissions nationales, “acteurs principaux de la décentralisation”. S’agissant du  Bureau de Kinshasa, créé en 1983, nous sollicitons l’amélioration et le renforcement de son potentiel humain et  matériel;
20.11 Après ces quelques remarques relatives à l’orientation et à la conduite générale de notre Organisation,  nous réitérons notre ferme volonté d’oeuvrer pour la promotion des idéaux de I’UNESCO dans notre pays. La  disponibilité de notre Commission nationale pour l’UNESC0, de nos clubs UNESCO, de nos écoles associées, de  nos bibliothèques associées et de nos autres organisations, toujours prêts à oeuvrer pour la promotion de ces  idéaux, est acquise. Ces agents de l’éducation et de l’animation culturelle comptent sur la solidarité internationale  pour réaliser leurs objectifs. Nous vous remercions.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je dorme maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Almany Diaby, ministre de  l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle de la Guinée.
22.1 M. DIABY (Guinée) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, honorables délégués,  Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, associer mon propos à celui de mes  prédécesseurs et vous adresser les vives et chaleureuses félicitations de ma délégation pour l’inestimable  confiance dont vous êtes investi pour conduire les débats de la 29e session de notre Conférence générale. Je suis  d’avance persuadé que, grâce à vos éminentes qualités d’homme de culture et d’expérience, les travaux de cette  session connaîtront un réel succès. C’est aussi un plaisir pour moi de rendre un hommage mérité à M. Torben  Krogh, président de la 28e session, dont le dévouement et la maîtrise des dossiers nous ont permis d’aboutir à des  résultats fort appréciables. M. Nouréini Tidjani-Serpos, président du Conseil exécutif, a conduit les travaux de  cet organe avec sagesse tout au long son mandat. Ma délégation le félicite pour les bons résultats auxquels le  Conseil exécutif est parvenu durant ce mandat. Je tiens enfin à saluer tout particulièrement le courage constant, la  lucidité et la perspicacité avec lesquels M. Federico Mayor, directeur général de I’UNESCO, préside aux  destinées de notre Organisation. Et c’est le lieu de lui renouveler l’appui de la République de Guinée dans ses  efforts pour conduire notre Organisation vers les objectifs qu’elle s’est assignés.
22.2 Monsieur le Président, c’est avec un réel plaisir que je vous transmets ici les cordiales salutations du  peuple de Guinée, de son gouvernement et, tout particulièrement, de son Président, S. Ext. le général Lansana  Conté, qui formule l’espoir que nos travaux contribuent à faire reculer les frontières de l’ignorance et affermir la  paix dans un monde de solidarité.
22.3 Monsieur le Président, la 29e session de la Conférence générale se tient à l’aube du troisième millénaire,  et dans un contexte marqué par l’acuité des problèmes liés à la persistance de la pauvreté, à l’aggravation des  inégalités entre les nations et des conflits sociaux, à la destruction des écosystèmes, à l’accroissement  démographique où il convient de mieux adapter les programmes de notre Organisation aux besoins réels de nos  populations confrontées aux difficiles contraintes du développement. Les spécificités qui caractérisent la situation  des pays en développement exigent en effet de notre Organisation de nouvelles approches, un réajustement des  politiques d’allocation des ressources vers des activités et des domaines en étroite harmonie avec les priorités de  développement.
22.4 Je relèverai la pertinence et l’actualité des activités inscrites dans le programme relatif a l’éducation de  base pour tous qui, en même temps que le nécessaire renforcement des systèmes d’enseignement primaire, exigent  des efforts et des moyens accrus en direction de la petite enfance, de l’éducation des adultes et des “exclus”. A cet  égard, une attention soutenue doit être accordée aux programmes et projets d’alphabétisation, d’éducation et de  formation des, femmes et des jeunes filles en zones rurales. En effet, dans nos sociétés où plus des trois quarts de  la population vivent dans les zones rurales, l’émergence d’une véritable culture de développement exige le  rattrapage du déficit scientifique et technique et la maîtrise par tous des instruments du savoir et du savoir-faire.  Il convient donc d’imaginer et de mettre en place des méthodes et approches novatrices, alliant efficacité, célérité  et conformité aux préoccupations professionnelles et productives des populations. Ce qui veut dire aussi  promouvoir un enseignement technique et une formation professionnelle de mieux en mieux adaptés aux besoins  et aux préoccupations des communautés en matière de développement. Je voudrais aussi saluer les dispositions  envisagées dans cet esprit dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1998-1999 concernant “L’éducation  pour tous tout au long de la vie”, qui prévoient la mise en oeuvre de modalités d’apprentissage souples et  diversifiées, adaptées aux besoins et à la langue de l’apprenant. C’est pourquoi mon pays appuie les projets qui  constituent la trame du document 29 C/5 dans sa dimension éducative, et qui prennent largement en compte les  multiples défis à relever et les spécificités et priorités propres à chaque groupe de pays.
22.5 Monsieur le Président, les profondes réformes engagées en République de Guinée depuis une dizaine  d’années dans le cadre du Programme d’ajustement sectoriel de l’éducation se sont traduites par un accroissement  du taux de scolarisation et d’alphabétisation, par la mise en oeuvre et la poursuite de projets éducatifs spécifiques  en faveur des jeunes filles et des enfants déscolarisés et par la refonte des programmes et leur adaptation aux  réalités socio-économiques. Les efforts tendant à accroître et amplifier l’action ainsi amorcée sont poursuivis et  diversifiés en étroite collaboration avec les partenaires sociaux, la société civile, les médias et les organisations  internationales. C’est ce.qui a conduit à lancer une deuxième phase dudit programme.
22.6, En outre, l’heureuse initiative tendant à organiser au cours de la période biennale 1998-1999 une  conférence mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur et une autre sur la science permettra de poser les jalons d’un  plan d’action mondial en faveur d’une meilleure appropriation des sciences et des techniques, en vue d’un réel  renforcement des capacités de recherche, mais aussi d’une parfaite adéquation de la formation aux besoins du  marché du travail. L’opportunité et l’actualité des projets induits par un tel programme sont d’autant plus  évidentes que les immenses progrès de la science et de la technique accentuent l’écart et les inégalités entre Nord  et Sud, entre pays développés et pays en développement. Le développement de l’acquisition de compétences  professionnelles et de la formation aux nouveaux métiers modernes pourrait être pour notre institution un bon  moyen d’aider nos pays à affronter les défis du développement.
22.7 La prise en compte de ce nécessaire transfert et partage de connaissances scientifiques et techniques a  conduit la République de Guinée à mettre en place un projet d’appui au développement de l’enseignement  supérieur avec le concours des partenaires oeuvrant en faveur du développement. Ce projet, tout en prévoyant  des études sur les composantes universitaires, intègre l’amélioration de l’enseignement des sciences et de la  technologie. C’est le même souci qui a conduit notre gouvernement à lancer et à mettre en oeuvre une profonde  réforme de son système d’enseignement technique et de formation professionnelle pour l’orienter davantage vers  la maîtrise de toutes les compétences professionnelles nécessaires au développement national. De même,  appréciant hautement l’importance du programme sur L’homme et la biosphère, mon pays a créé et anime au sein  de l’Université de Conakry un Centre d’études et de recherche en environnement dont l’objet est de promouvoir  les activités scientifiques en la matière et de participer à la protection du milieu naturel et de l’écosystème.
22.8 La République de Guinée, toujours attachée aux valeurs de l’UNESC0, notamment au dialogue des  cultures, soutient le contenu et les dispositions du 29 C/5 portant sur la promotion des cultures vivantes, la  préservation et la mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et naturel, dont le Colloque international tenu sur le  thème “tradition orale et traite négrière”, à Conakry du 24 au 26 mars 1997, est une des multiples facettes.
22.9 Monsieur le Président, il est reconnu aujourd’hui que c’est par le biais des moyens de communication et  d’information modernes et traditionnels qu’il sera possible de réaliser les idéaux qui fondent l’essence de notre  Organisation. C’est pourquoi notre délégation appuie les objectifs inscrits au titre du Programme international  pour le développement de la communication, du Programme général d’information et du Programme  intergouvernemental d’informatique.
22.10 Monsieur le Président, pour répondre au souci d’efficacité de notre institution et permettre à nos pays de  mieux affronter les multiples défis du développement, il est indispensable d’élaborer et de mettre en oeuvre des  projets et programmes de proximité suscitant l’adhésion de tous. A cet effet, il me semble judicieux de souligner  la nécessité de renforcer les bureaux régionaux, en les dotant des ressources financières et des compétences
415    humaines indispensables, et de poursuivre la creation de bureaux de I’UNESCO au niveau des Etats membres  pour faciliter la mise en oeuvre des activités opérationnelles.
22.11 Monsieur le President, ma délégation, à l’instar des autres délégations, se réjouit du retour du Royaume-  Uni au sein de la famille de KJNESCO et formule l’espoir que ceux qui ne sont pas encore revenus suivront cet  exemple, témoignant ainsi de leur attachement à l’universalité de l’Organisation et au destin solidaire de nos  nations. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais pour terminer souhaiter que les travaux de la 29e session de la  Conférence générale contribuent à renforcer l’action de KJNESCO et à pérenniser ses idéaux et son universalité.  Je vous remercie.
23. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Maintenant je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Rui Figueiredo Soares,  ambassadeur, délégué permanent du Cap-Vert auprès de I’UNESCO.
24.1 M. SOARES (Cap-Vert) :  (discours prononcé en portugais, texte Ii-ançais fourni par la délégation)  Monsieur le President de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de delégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais en  premier lieu vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence génerale, de votre brillante élection à la tête  de cette assemblée. Le Cap-Vert se sent honoré et comblé par l’élection d’un ressortissant d’un pays membre de la  Communauté des pays de langue portugaise à la présidence de cette illustre assemblée. Votre expérience et votre  connaissance de l’Organisation, ajoutées à votre stature, sont la garantie que nos travaux seront bien conduits.  Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de saluer le retour du Royaume-Uni au sein de la grande famille de  I’UNESCO. Ce retour constitue, nous en sommes convaincus, pour cette dernière un renfort inestimable. Je saisis  cette occasion pour féliciter le Directeur général et lui exprimer notre appréciation pour la manière dont il dirige  notre importante Organisation.
24.2 Monsieur le Président, depuis l’entrée du Cap-Vert dans le concert des nations, mon pays a toujours  trouvé en I’UNESCO un partenaire privilégié dans ses efforts pour résoudre les problèmes relevant de  l’éducation, de la science et de la culture. Archipel dépourvu de ressources naturelles dont l’homme est la  principale richesse, le Cap-Vert vient de connaître une periode de développement qui a été marquée par des  résultats positifs, mais aussi par des difftcultés socio-économiques aggravées par des conditions naturelles  adverses - notamment la sécheresse qui frappe régulièrement ses îles. Malgré cette situation peu favorable, mon  gouvernement mise résolument sur le développement de l’éducation, moyen privilégié de faire face aux multiples  défis que nous sommes appelés à relever dans un contexte caractérisé par une mondialisation croissante.
24.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons constaté avec satisfaction que dans ce  domaine nous partagions les préoccupations de I’UNESCO. Avec elle, nous concevons l’éducation comme un  processus qui se prolonge tout au long de la vie et qui, au-delà de la transmission des connaissances, vise à  apprendre à faire, à être, à connaître et a vivre ensemble. Conscients que ces objectifs qui nous sont chers sont les  véritables piliers de l’éducation, notre gouvernement a mis l’accent, dans le domaine de l’éducation de base, sur  l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation des adultes, sur la généralisation de l’enseignement préscolaire et sur  l’intégration des différents programmes éducatifs dans l’enseignement formel. Un autre objectif, non mqins  important, du Ministère de l’éducation de notre pays est de poursuivre la réforme de l’enseignement secondaire.  Nous mettons l’accent sur une éducation tournée à la fois vers la sauvegarde de valeurs telles que le respect de la  famille et de l’environnement, et vers l’apprentissage des valeurs démocratiques et le respect des droits de  l’homme. Convaincu qu’investir dans le développement scientifique, c’est ouvrir la porte aux transformations  scientifiques et technologiques du XXIe siècle, mon gouvernement continue d’accorder une attention toute  particulière à l’enseignement supérieur et à la recherche. L’institutionnalisation et la diversifïcation de  l’enseignement supérieur, en vue de doter le pays de capacités endogènes, dûment renforcées par la recherche,  sont des aspects marquants de notre politique qui rejoignent les préoccupations de I’UNESCO : promotion de  l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche et coopération.
24.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis 199 1, date de son ouverture au multipartisme, le  Cap-Vert est entré dans une nouvelle phase de son developpement économique, social, culturel et politique. Ce  développement s’inscrit dans un contexte caractérisé par la mondialisation des activités économico-financières et  culturelles, et par l’interdépendance des économies - réalité à laquelle le Cap-Vert ne peut être aveugle. Le Cap-  Vert reconnaît que les progrés réalisés dans le domaine des technologies de l’information ont fait entrer  l’humanité dans l’ère de la communication universelle, bouleversant ainsi l’ordre des relations internationales.  Malheureusement, on constate aussi que le fossé s’est creusé entre les pays industrialisés et les pays en voie de  développement alors même qu’une culture “universelle” menace l’identité propre de chaque culture. Conscient du
12  risque que cela représente pour notre identité culturelle, le gouvernement du Cap-Vert s’emploie résolument à  renforcer la dimension culturelle en tant que facteur du développement. C’est pourquoi la préservation de notre  patrimoine matériel et immatériel, c’est-à-dire la défense de notre langue nationale et de nos traditions telles  qu’elles s’expriment par exemple dans la musique et la danse, constitue une des priorites de notre politique de  développement. C’est là une condition préalable à la sauvegarde de la diversité et du pluralisme culturel.
24.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, le Cap-Vert se réjouit des efforts importants que  I’UNESCO déploie pour promouvoir les nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication dans  tous ses domaines de compétence, dans le monde en général et dans les pays en développement en particulier. Je  voudrais souligner que nous sommes en parfait accord avec la vision du Directeur général concernant  l’engagement de I’UNESCO en faveur de l’Afrique. L’Organisation apparaît ainsi comme l’avocat inconditionnel  des intérêts de notre continent auprès des institutions financières du système des Nations Unies. Seule une  approche de ce type permettra aux Africains d’assumer la responsabilité du développement de leur continent.  Dans cette perspective, nous souhaitons que la priorité accordée à l’Afrique transparaisse clairement dans les  différents programmes de l’Organisation.
24.6 Pour conclure, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de réaffirmer que I’UNESCO, si elle se veut à  l’écoute comme le préconise son Directeur général, se doit d’être un partenaire privilégié de l’Afrique, afin que ce  continent soit à même de relever les défis du XXIe siècle. Je vous remercie.
25. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur 1’Ambassadeur. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Newstead Zimba,  ministre du développement communautaire et du bien-être social de la Zambie.
26.1 Mr ZIMBA (Zambia):  Mr President, Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, the Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Your Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of  Zambia, it gives me great pleasure, Sir, to join other speakers in expressing the congratulatory message on your  election as President of this Conference.
26.2 Mr President, on behalf of the people of Zambia and indeed on my own behalf, 1 wish to register my  heartfelt gratitude-t0 the Director-General of UNESCO for his continued service to humanity through UNESCO’s  activities. His impartial leadership on global issues has revitalized our Organization. The Director-General and  his Secretariat have done commendable work, as reflected in the crurent strength and status of the Organization.  This is exemplitïed by the manner in which more members have been attracted to join the Organization. TO the  new members of UNESCO, we wish to extend our sincere welcome to you with open arms, and to the old  members, we encourage you to continue to maintain the culture of peace. TO the United Kingdom, my delegation  would like to join those who have spoken before us to welcome you back cordially to this mutual fold.
26.3 Mr President, our region continued to suffer from crisis and human conflicts emanating fiom poverty,  mistrust and tribal rivah-y. These have arisen mainly because of the extreme poverty resulting in the denial of the  basic human needs. The United Nations must intensify its efforts to support Member States to control and  eliminate these conflicts. These are challenges to the global society and UNESCO must strive to fïght for the  cause of peace, justice and international understanding for a better quality of life for a11 peoples of the world. It is  only then that socio-economic, scientifïc and technological development cari be enhanced to a greater extent.
26.4 Mr President, Zambia reaffïrms the stand taken by UNESCO on the human genome and supports the  draft declaration designed to protect humanity fiom abuses by genetic science. Scientists have an obligation to  direct their efforts towards solving the world’s problems without sacrificing the dignity of humanity.
26.5 Mr President, my country is committed to the implementation of the strategies for contributing to  development as outlined in the Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001, document 28 ‘C/4 Approved. TO this  effect, an educational policy has been formulated and is being implemented. Our country’s educational policy  acknowledges UNESCO’s major areas of concem in the provision of education for ail.
26.6 Mr President, my delegation fully endorses the line of action contained in the Draft Programme and  Budget for 1998-1999 (29 C/5). We also support the reaffirmation that UNESCO should do a11 it cari to help in  the enormous task of *meeting the major challenges of our time - peace, development, democratization and  protection of the enviromnent, in particular by narrowing the gap existing between developed and developing  countries and also, within nations, the gap between urban and rural areas. My country recognizes and commends  UNESCO for the implementation of the decentralization programme within the Organization. We now cal1 for  and urge the Organization to strive to improve co-operation for the better execution of programmes. There is a
417    great need to assist national govemments to strengthen National Commissions by developing human resources  and supplying non-expendable equipment in order to improve operations.
26.7 The World Conference on Adult Education has established new channels; for encouragement,  commitment and determination by the world community to provide more opportunities for adult leaming is no  longer an issue to be debated. The task ahead of us, especially for the developing nations, is to provide  qualitative and quantitative education for the ultimate elimination of the illiteracy scourge. The issue at stake in  the realization of these pronouncements is the implementation of the future agenda and resolutions ofthe  Conference. UNESCO’s commitment to finding a lasting solution to the whole problem and the world  community’s response is an encouragement to us.
26.8 Environmental degradation continues to be perhaps the greatest threat to mankind and is an issue of  great concem to both the developed and developing nations. It is also true that development is inextricably linked  to the proper use and management of the environment. Most of the enviromnental problems are very technical  and scientifïc in nature. Developing nations which have a weak technological and scientific base might find it  extremely diffïcult to tope with such enormous and inescapable problems.
26.9 Mr President, my delegation is quite satisfied with the emphasis placed on science education and  technology and the role it should play in the general development, especially activities aimed at improving access  of girls and women to science, technology and vocational training. We realize that it is in the areas of science and  technology that sustainable development could be fruitfully achieved.
26.10 Mr President, my country attaches great importance to the realization of the full potential of our youth.  We therefore note with satisfaction that youth development programmes have been given due prominence in draft  document 29 (35. In particular, my country would like to reiterate our support for the establishment of the Africa  Centre for Guidance Counselling and Youth Development in Lilongwe, Malawi. It is our strong belief that the  Centre Will go a long way in training cadres of youth trainers that our region SO very much needs. 1 would  therefore like to thank UNESCO for its continued support in this endeavour, and through UNESCO, other  agencies like DANIDA which are helping us realize this noble dream in our region.
26.11 Mr President, please allow me to highlight the priority areas for Zambia: increasing access to basic  education and improving it through provision of educational materials and improving human resources; human  resources development; programmes for early childhood leaming, production of leaming materials and training  of personnel; adult education: improving access to basic education for adult leamers and broadening skills and  vocational training; support to improving secondary education; higher education and setting up of a UNESCO  Chair of Forestry at the Copperbelt Univers@; inclusive special education at a11 levels; support for improving  access to science, technology and vocational education for women and girls; support for setting up the Book  Development Council of Zambia (BDCZ); communication: to broaden avenues for information dissemination  there is need to develop community-based radio stations and provincial newspapers; funds for training and  technical assistance in various fïelds of mass communications; culture: setting up and developing a national  cultural centre and a cultural databank, a project for the World Decade for Cultural Development; training of  museum personnel and other cultural management staff cultural awareness activities SO as to increase  participation in cultural life; empowerment of women: to increase their participation in a11 spheres of social,  economic and political life there is need to equip women with managerial, technological and entrepreneurship  skills.
26.12 Mr President, finally and lastly, you may have heard in this moming’s news on CNN and the BBC that  the govemment of my country, Zambia, had been toppled. 1 would like to inform you, Mr President, and the  delegates that one misguided officer has been apprehended and the so-called reported military coup is no longer  in existence in that country. The President broadcast to the nation: ‘Al1 is well, and everything is back to normal’.  Thank you, Mr President.
27. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Rupert Herbert, ministre de  l’éducation, du travail et de la sécurité sociale de Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis.
28.1 Mr HERBERT (Saint-Kit& and Nevis):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  honourable ministers of education and other heads of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, 1 deem it  an honour to have been afforded this opportunity to address this 29th session of the UNESCO General  Conference. Permit me, Mr President, on behalf of my Govemment and the people of Saint Kilts and Nevis and
12  on my own behalf, to congratulate you on your election to such a prestigious position. Your performance SO far  has justifïed the confidence placed in you, for you have filled the office with distinction. It also gives me great  pleasure to welcome the United Kingdom back again into the fold of UNESCO alter such a long absence. It is  instructive to note that this has occurred under a Labour administration which has recently received an  overwhelming mandate from its people. The re-entry of the United Kingdom into the Organization demonstrates  the realization by the new Labour Govemment that no country cari afford to stand aloof from the wider world  which has become increasingly interdependent, but that it must use its considerable resources and influence in  assisting UNESCO to achieve its ideal of the creation of a culture of peace.
28.2 The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is in general agreement with the policies and programmes  contained in UNESCO’s Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium. We are pleased to observe that  UNESCO continues to promote the notion of education for a11 by the year 20 10 and lifelong education for all.  Science and technology education also receive appropriate emphasis. These are important elements of the  programme, for they reaffirm UNESCO’s commitment to human resource development, which is a vital  component of every country’s thrust for social and economic development and the achievement of a better quality  of life for their peoples, without which it Will be impossible for UNESCO to realize its cherished dream of  creating a culture of peace in which tolerance, understanding and mutual respect form the bases of relationships  between cultures, countries and peoples.
28.3 This issue of human resource development has become more urgent in the era of increased globalization.  An integral part of this process, the removal of trade restrictions and preferences, is being relentlessly pursued,  thus exposing small island states to increased competition from the industrial giants with their superior human  resource, natural resource and technology base and their capacity to reap the benefits of economies of scale. The  trend, therefore, is for the gap between the rich and poor countries to widen, thus fiustrating the efforts of poor  nations to initiate and effectively implement programmes designed to alleviate and ultimately eradicate the  scourge of poverty.
28.4 Saint Kitts and Nevis has always recognized the positive correlation between the level of human  resource development and achievable developmental goals. This has motivated us to designate the area of  education as a priority. Over the years, through increased investment in this sector, we have been able to achieve  fiee universal basic and secondary education and are poised to achieve universal access to early childhood  education. Children with special needs are catered for by the Special Education Unit, and the recently established  Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College has already begun to deliver quality tertiary-level education. We seek to provide  for our people, particularly youth, increased opportunities for the acquisition of relevant social, academic,  professional, scientific, technical, and vocational skills to enable them to tope with the challenges of the twenty-  first century.
28.5 Mr President, 1 wish to record our thanks to UNESCO for funding various projects under the  Participation Programme, including the acquisition of office equipment for our National Commission, on-site  training for radio broadcasters, laboratory safety improvement and a study of local medicinal plants. We are also  grateful for the generous assistance provided by UNESCO through the persona1 intervention of the Director-  General, to refùrbish our radio station which was badly damaged during the hurricanes of 1995. We do feel  though, that UNESCO cari do more and we look forward to securing funding for a significant number of ouf  projects during the next biennium. In particular, we are registering a strong appeal to have the CARIFESTA  project fimded under UNESCO’s extrabudgetary provisions. This is a regional project designed to showcase the  rich cultural diversity of the Caribbean region and to sensitize the people to the need for preserving this heritage.
1 would like to commend the Director-General for the sensitivity and understanding with which he has addressed  the concerns of Caribbean states in relation to the status of UNESCO’s regional Caribbean offices.
28.6 Mr President, 1 wish to record the ml1 support of our govemment for the adoption of an agreement for  co-operation between the Organization of Eastem Caribbean States and UNESCO. The Heads of Government, at  a meeting of the Authority in May this year, mandated the Secretariat to pursue such an agreement. The  ratification of such a treaty Will redound to the benefït of both organizations.
28.7 At this juncture, 1 wish to recognize the retirement of Mr Simon Clarke from the Jamaica Office.  Mr Clarke provided the region with very valuable service, serving as Education Adviser for the Caribbean. 1 wish  to thank him for the diligent service he gave to the Caribbean region by providing timely and valuable support to  the National Commissions. 1 do wish him well in his future endeavours. His successor, Dr Claudia Harvey, is also  a well-respected West Indian and is an excellent choice to advance the work of the Organization in the Caribbean  region. 1 assure her that she Will receive unstinting support from the region.
28.8 In conclusion, Mr President, 1 wish to express my belief - rather my conviction - that the Director-  General remains committed to UNESCO’s ideal, that is, the promotion of a culture of peace, and that he Will do  a11 in his power to further this cause during his remaining years in his term of office. If he does this, he Will have  helped Member States, partïcularly the less developed, to march boldly into the next millennium with renewed  hope and optimism, restored confidence and a revived respect for one another. 1 thank you for your patience and  attention.
29. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Et maintenant je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Robert Mbella Mbappe,  ministre de l’éducation nationale du Cameroun.
30.1 M. MBELLA MBAPPE (Cameroun) :  Monsieur le Président de la 29e session de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et  Messieurs, il m’est particulièrement agréable de me retrouver une fois de plus à ce rendez-vous biennal de la  grande famille de ceux qui, à travers le monde, croient et aspirent au progrès de l’humanité sous l’éclairage de  l’éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication, lesquels constituent les cinq champs du mandat  de I’UNESCO. C’est dire combien le Cameroun se réjouit de pouvoir apporter sa contribution déterminée à la  poursuite et à la réalisation des objectifs de notre Organisation et de s’enrichir de multiples expériences, tout  aussi originales et pertinentes les unes que les autres. Dans cet esprit, et a la lumibre des propos du Directeur  général de I’UNESCO sur la nécessité du partage dans le domaine de la science et de la promotion d’un dialogue  authentique en matière de culture et de démocratie, j’ai l’honneur de vous transmettre ici les encouragements de  S. Ext. M. Paul Biya, président de la République du Cameroun, dont l’action rejoint les idéaux de WNESCO.  Aussi m’est-il particulièrement agréable d’avoir, au nom du Cameroun, à saluer l’action énergique de M. Federico  Mayor, directeur général de I’UNESCO, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale. Nous savons gré a
1’Ambassadeur Nouréini Tidjani-Serpes d’avoir su diriger le Conseil exécutif dans des conditions difficiles. Le  Cameroun s’associe aux précédents orateurs pour féliciter M. Eduardo Portella de sa brillante élection à la tête de  cet important organe. Nous sommes persuadés que I’UNESCO bénéficiera de sa grande experience et de ses  éminentes qualités d’homme. Quant au Cameroun, il tient à l’assurer de sa totale collaboration. Enfin, je voudrais,  au nom du Cameroun, adresser ‘mes vives félicitations .à M. Torben Krogh, president de la 28e session de la  Conférence générale, pour la manière brillante dont il s’est acquitté de la mission que la Conférence générale lui  avait confiée. Monsieur le Président, le Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord vient de  réintégrer la grande famille de I’UNESCO. Le Cameroun qui, de son côté, vient d’entrer dans le Commonwealth,  salue ce retour qui conforte l’universalité de l’organisation et forme le voeu que cette démarche du Royaume-Uni  sera suivie par d’autres.
30.2 Monsieur le Président, je relève avec satisfaction que, comme mon pays, le Cameroun, I’UNESCO  accorde la priorité aux jeunes et aux femmes. Au Cameroun, où les femmes représentent 52 % de la population et  les jeunes de moins de 30 ans plus de 60 %, réserver un traitement privilégié à ces catégories vulnérables et  défavorisées est amplement justifié. Par ailleurs, l’UNESC0 prône la paix par l’éducation, la science, la culture et  la communication. Or, on constate aujourd’hui en Afrique un déficit d’éducation qui peut menacer la paix. C’est  pourquoi KJNESCO a mis sur pied un programme visant les femmes, les enfants et les jeunes.
30.3 S’agissant plus particulièrement de l’Anique, le Cameroun regrette la réapparition ici et là sur son sol de  conflits générés par l’intolérance, les fanatismes et les égoïsmes. Ces conflits confirment à souhait que l’exigence  de la culture de la paix passe par l’exigence de la démocratie qui, dans son universalité, doit tenir compte des  spécificités de chaque pays. L’occasion me paraît donc indiquée pour rappeler l’évolution démocratique du  Cameroun amorcée en 1982 au moment de l’accession du Président Paul Biya à la magistrature suprême et  accélérée depuis 1990 avec l’instauration du multipartisme, la promotion des libertés, dont celle de la presse, et  l’abolition des lois d’exception. Au lieu de la Conférence nationale dite souveraine, tenue ici ou la, le Cameroun a  choisi la voie originale de la Conférence tripartite (regroupant le gouvernement, l’opposition et la société civile),  qui refléte la richesse de nos 300 ethnies. Cette voie nous a permis d’organiser jusqu’ici cinq élections plurielles :  les élections municipales de 1996, qui ont vu l’opposition remporter plusieurs municipalités dans certaines  grandes villes ; deux élections législatives, dont celles de mai-juin 1997, à l’issue desquelles le nombre de partis  politiques à l’Assemblée nationale est passé de quatre (en 1992) a sept (en 1997) ; de ces sept partis, six sont de  l’opposition ; deux elections présidentielles, dont celle du 12 octobre 1997 qui, avec huit partis candidats, a vu  l’échec des appels au boycottage de trois partis de l’opposition, la participation massive des Camerounais
(8 1,35 % des électeurs inscrits) et l’élection incontestable du President Paul Biya par 9257 % des Clecteurs  votants. Nous espérons que les Camerounais de tous bords sauront répondre à l’appel du Président élu Paul Biya  qui a voulu pour le Cameroun une démocratie de rassemblement, une démocratie de non-exclusion. En ce qui  concerne le respect de la liberté d’opinion et de la liberté de la presse, profitant de l’occasion qui m’est donnée par
12  cette auguste assemblée, je suis en mesure de réaffirmer ici solennellement que, d’une part, au Cameroun, aucun  militant, ni dirigeant des 148 partis politiques qui existent dans notre pays ne se trouve en prison pour motif  politique. Je suis en mesure de réaffirmer, d’autre part, que le Cameroun est l’un des pays ou la loi garantit a la  presse une grande liberté, du fait notamment de la suppression de la censure préalable et de la simplification des  procédures de création d’organes de presse.
30.4 Monsieur le Président, le Cameroun se réjouit du vent de réforme qui souffle à I’UNESCO et l’approuve.  Parmi les réformes en cours, je retiens la décentralisation des structures. Cette initiative vise à créer des centres  d’excellence et des bureaux hors Siège dotés de larges compétences où le Secrétariat est pleinement représenté.  Cette décentralisation doit, à notre avis, avoir un caractère plus opérationnel et associer notamment à l’exécution  des programmes les commissions nationales et les cadres du lieu d’implantation des bureaux. Le Cameroun se  réjouit de la décision prise par M. le Directeur général de créer un Département Priorité Afrique et appuie les  recommandations du Conseil exécutif relatives à ce département. Réaffirmant son appui au rôle intellectuel et  éthique de I’UNESCO, le Cameroun souscrit à l’adoption de la Déclaration sur le droit de l’être humain à la paix  dans le cadre de la célébration du cinquantenaire de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme. Il en est de  même des mesures relatives à la sauvegarde des générations futures et en particulier du projet de déclaration sur  le génome humain. L’orientation du Projet de programme et de budget (29 C/5) autorise des espoirs certains. Sur  ce plan, le Cameroun est au nombre des pays qui pensent que le retour du Royaume-Uni devrait se traduire, sur le  plan financier, par un relèvement du plafond budgétaire. A ce propos, nous exprimons au Royaume-Uni toute la  satisfaction que le gouvernement camerounais éprouve devant son retour au sein de I’UNESCO.
30.5 D’autres points du 29 C/5 retiennent plus particulierement l’attention du Cameroun : mon pays soutient la  Conférence mondiale sur l’enseignement supérieur prévue en mars 1998 dans la mesure où l’accent sera mis sur  l’enseignement de la technologie et de la science et sur la formation professionnelle ; le Cameroun, qui a accueilli  en février 1997 un séminaire sur le concept de village solaire, réaffirme son intérêt pour la mise en oeuvre du  Programme solaire mondial et demeure dés lors intéresse par l’implantation sur son territoire d’un centre pilote  sous-régional d’expérimentation des énergies renouvelables ; s’agissant enfin des nouvelles technologies de  l’information et de la communication, il est souhaitable que I’UNESCO prône une nouvelle éthique et joue un rôle  accru dans la formation à l’utilisation de ces nouveaux instruments.
30.6 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs, la période biennale qui s’ouvre  suscite d’immenses espoirs, notamment pour les pays du Sud. Solidaires dans la réflexion, nous devons en tant  que communauté des Etats membres de I’UNESCO l’être également dans l’action, dans la réalisation effective de  notre volonté de progrès. Pour y parvenir, une synergie véritable issue des efforts nationaux et de la coopération  internationale s’impose afin de permettre à notre Organisation de relever le grand défi qu’est l’acheminement,  durant le troisième millénaire, de l’humanité vers un monde plus heureux et plus pacifique. C’est dans cette  perspective que je souhaite à la 29e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESC0 le plus vif succès. Merci.
31. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne à présent la parole au Professeur Werner Arber, président du  Conseil international des unions scientifiques (CIUS).
32.1 Mr ARBER (International Council of Scient& Unions (ICSU)):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 1 wish to thank you for giving me the  opportunity to speak here today on science and its relevance for our civilizations. 1 plan to touch on the topics of  globalization, peace, scientific progress, sustainable management and development and, last but not least, the  World Science Conference.
32.2 Science, its research and its contributions to cultural values are principally of a global nature. This has to  do with the abjects of scientifïc smdies. The physical and chemical worlds are basically the same on a11  continents, in a11 oceans, in the atmosphere, and, at least as far as we know, in the immense universe. Similarly,  life processes follow the same basic laws a11 over our planet. Therefore, scientitïc research is a priori a global  enterprise. International co-operation of the worldwide research community is a steady ongoing dialogue between  scientists. In this context, 1 wish to stress that co-operation does, in no way, exclude a sound competition between  groups engaged in solving a particular question.
32.3 Discussions on specific topics in competitive fïelds cari be hard, but people involved know that scientific  excellence is the final criterion of success, and it is my long persona1 experience that scientifïc debates between  scientists working anywhere on our planet are always fiiendly. In this sense, scientists render an invaluable  contribution to a stable establishment of peace.
32.4 Scientifïc progress depends on the disciplinary excellence of the people engaged but also on their Will to  undertake interdisciplinary work and co-operation. Scientific breakthroughs very often depend on new  technologies and new strategies, and these may ofien originate in other disciplines. This has largely been seen,  for example, during the past decades, in the life sciences, to give just one example, where more and more of the  new fïndings are leading immediately or rapidly to applications in medicine, agriculture, biotechnology and the  environment. This, 1 hope Will lead to a better and more sustainable management of this world in which we live,  and 1 do think that this is of very particular relevance for the developing countries.
32.5 Scientists are aware that scient& progress and its applications require caretûl and responsible  assessment of both the technologies and the policies applied. Ethical guidance is thereby of primary importance.  It would be wrong to assume that scientists could, or should, accomplish these tasks alone. Rather, a network of  partnerships should be established to include the political world, society at large, and also various representative  subsets of society.
32.6 This leads me to confirm ICSU’s strong interest in organizing, together with UNESCO, the World  Science Conference in 1999. Science has contributed immensely to society, even though its applications cari be  and have been misused at times. However, it is important to ensure that the positive relationship between science  and society continues and is strengthened. The proposed Conference Will be a unique opportunity to show that  science cari make signifïcant contributions to constructive dialogue between different cultures. The Conference  Will debate on important questions relating to society and scientifïc progress at large: the applications of scientifïc  knowledge and the assessment of its possible consequences. ICSU sees the partnership with UNESCO in  organizing the World Science Conference as a highlight at the turn of the century and a iûrther stimulation to  fruitful co-operation between our two organizations.
33. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Avant de lever cette douzième séance plénière, je voudrais vous informer  que le premier orateur inscrit cet après-midi est le chef de la delégation du Mali. La seance est levée. Je vous  remercie.  La séance est levée à 13 h.20  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.20
3aCejJaHHe saKpbIBaeTc5x B 13.20  &Jl &y \,Y* LLJI j LIL$I &J  --%3!=f 13Jmm%&