Vingt-septième séance plénière
17 novembre 1999 à 15 h.10  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twenty-seventh plenary meeting
17 November 1999 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Vigésima séptima sesiôn plenaria
757   RAPPORT DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF SUR SES ACTIVITES EN 1998-1999, Y COMPRIS SES METHODES  DE TRAVAIL, EN APPLICATION DE LA RESOLUTION 29 C/88  REPORT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON ITS OWN ACTIVITIES IN 1998-1999, INCLUDING ITS  METHODS OF WORK, PURSUANT TO 29 C/RESOLUTION 88  INFORME DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO SOBRE SUS ACTIVIDADES EN 1998-1999, INCLUIDOS SUS  METODOS DE TRABAJO, EN APLICACION DE LA RESOLUCION 29 C/88  OKJIA/| UCITOJIHUTEJIBHOI'O COBETA O EI'O AEATEJIBHOCTH B 1998-1999 IT, B TOM YHCIIE  O METO/[AX ETO PABOTbI BO HCIIOJIHEHHE PF30JIIOIHH 29 C/88  AMpYS jal labs clos 351 ,b 3 3 Loy 1448-1884 pole 3 ahaa oe suis) pulanadl yy 45  PAT FARE PLI29 C/884R HI fKIx TF H1998—1999 FES), AEH T HEAR >
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of a quorum, I shall suspend the meeting for a few minutes.  (The meeting is adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 I declare open the twenty-seventh and last plenary meeting of the 30th session of the General  Conference, and the last General Conference of this millennium, if there is no extraordinary session. We begin  with item 2.2 on the agenda, “Report by the Executive Board on its own activities in 1998-1999, including its  methods of work, pursuant to 29 C/Resolution 88”. The document for this item is 30 C/9, which has already been  discussed during the general policy debate. What we have to do today is to adopt the draft resolution at the end of  the document. Do you have any comments on the draft resolution contained in document 30 C/9? As I see no one  asking for the floor, I propose that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution in document 30 C/9.
1.3 It is so decided.  HOMMAGE A MM. PAL PATAKI ET CHRISTOPHER CHETSANGA, PRESIDENTS DU CONSEIL  EXECUTIF  TRIBUTE TO MR PAL PATAKI AND MR CHRISTOPHER CHETSANGA, CHAIRPERSONS OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD  HOMENAJE A LOS SRES. PAL PATAKI Y CHRISTOPHER CHETSANGA, PRESIDENTES DEL  CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbIPAXKEHHE IIPH3HATEJIBHOCTH I'-HY MAJIIO HATAKH H I'-HY KPHCTODEPY UETCAHT A,  IIPF/1CFE/[ATEJIIM UCITOJIHUTEJIBHOI'O COBETA  SIT sl puny SLA SG gin Sg SUL JL pase Sold)  AT AE RP. IRF SRA FC. J. Ue Sn st AE BAL.
2.1 The PRESIDENT:  I would now like to submit to you a draft resolution presented by the General Committee of the General  Conference in tribute to the Chairpersons of the Executive Board, Mr Pâl Pataki and Mr Christopher J.  Chetsanga. The text of the resolution has been distributed to you as document 30 C/PLEN/DR.3. I shall now read  to you the text of the draft resolution:  “The General Conference,  Considering that Mr Pal Pataki performed the duties of Chairperson of the Executive Board from
13 November 1997 to 5 October 1999,  Recalling that, during this period, he assumed his responsibilities with the utmost dedication, firmly  resolved that the Board should scrupulously fulfil its constitutional mandate,  Recognizing his steadfast commitment to UNESCO’s mission and the determination with which he  guided the work of the Executive Board in accomplishing this mission,  Stressing the human qualities, integrity and thoroughness which he demonstrated in the performance of  his duties,  Considering that Mr Christopher J. Chetsanga assumed the responsibilities of Chairperson of the  Executive Board from the beginning of its 157th session to the end of the 30th session of the General
758   Conference and that, during this period, the Board had the task of interviewing candidates before  nominating one of them for the post of Director-General of UNESCO,  Noting with satisfaction his active participation in the work of the 30th session of the General  Conference,    Underlining the important tasks accomplished by the Executive Board during the 1998-1999 biennium,  under the chairmanship of Mr Pâl Pataki and Mr Christopher Chetsanga,  Expresses its sincere gratitude to Mr Pal Pataki and Mr Christopher Chetsanga for the invaluable  services rendered to the Organization.”    (Applause)
2.2 I consider your applause as a sign of approval. I therefore declare the draft resolution adopted.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I give the floor to Mr Pâl Pataki. Mr Pâl Pataki,  would you please address the General Conference.
3.1 M. PATAKI (Hongrie), Président du Conseil exécutif :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, pardonnez-moi si je ne  trouve pas des mots à la mesure de l'honneur que vous me faites et que vous faites à mon pays, la Hongrie. Je ne  cache pas que je suis fier de ce que le Conseil exécutif a accompli durant ces deux dernières années, et il me  paraît juste d'associer à cet hommage l'ensemble de ses membres ainsi que des délégations permanentes qui nous  ont soutenus dans nos efforts en nous prodiguant conseils et encouragements. Je tiens tout particulièrement à  souligner la part qui revient dans ces éloges aux présidents des commissions et comités qui ont fait un travail  remarquable. Si ce Conseil a réussi, il le doit en grande partie à la fougue intellectuelle de Russell Marshall, à la  sagesse de Shem Wandiga, à la perspicacité de Hisham Nachabé, à la finesse de Victor Massuh et à la  persévérance de Nils Nilsson.
32 Monsieur le Directeur général, je crois pouvoir dire que le Conseil exécutif, au cours de l'exercice  biennal écoulé, a mis en route la réforme dont l'UNESCO a si grand besoin et je ne doute pas que, dans sa  composition renouvelée, il poursuivra ce travail. Pour réussir dans votre mission, vous avez besoin d'un Conseil  fort, à même d'assumer pleinement sa fonction de suivi de l'exécution du programme que la Conférence générale  vient d'adopter. Je vous souhaite de tout coeur que l'esprit d'harmonie dont vous vous êtes réclamé dans votre  allocution inaugurale préside à votre coopération avec le Conseil exécutif.
33 Enfin, je tiens à vous le dire, Monsieur le Directeur général, comme je tiens à le dire à Madame la  Présidente et aux nouveaux membres du Conseil, le Secrétariat du Conseil exécutif réunit une équipe exemplaire,  sur laquelle pourrait prendre modèle l'ensemble de l'Organisation. Jamais je n'aurais pu m'acquitter de ma tâche  sans la compétence et le savoir-faire, le dévouement et le sourire permanent de Mohamed Al Shaabi et de ses  collaborateurs merveilleux et toujours disponibles, Ivan Jorge Espinal, Mercedes Torcat, Elizabeth Chang,  Daniele Fontowicz, Michee Detinho, Claudette Delorme et Karamoko Diarra. Permettez-moi aussi d'exprimer ma  gratitude aux membres de la délégation hongroise qui m'ont beaucoup aidé pendant cet exercice biennal au  Conseil exécutif, Péter Karikäs, Mihaly Rozsa et Gyorgyi Louis. Merci beaucoup.
4. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Pataki. I certainly appreciate the work you have done, and I hope that we shall never lose  touch. You have many friends in this room, Sir. It is also with great pleasure that I call upon Mr Christopher  Chetsanga to take the floor.
5.1 Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply touched by the tribute that the General Conference has decided  to pay to my predecessor and friend, Mr Pataki and to myself, through a resolution written in such kind terms. I  should like to express my heartfelt thanks to you, Madam President and dear friend, for your kind words. We  have been together through the period of the General Conference helping each other to serve the ideals of our  Organization. It is a great honour for me to accept the tribute. I do so not only in my own name, but on behalf of  all my colleagues with whom I have had the privilege of working, most especially all my colleagues on the  Executive Board, who, during the period of its 157th session and the 30th session of the General Conference,  facilitated my work. Certainly I want to include the staff of the Executive Board secretariat, mentioned by name  by Mr Pataki, and add my own word of thanks to them, including Mr Seiti who has been assisting me during the
27   General Conference. They have been a very efficient working team giving me excellent assistance. All I have  achieved here is thanks to their assistance to me as a new Chairperson who had to learn things as I went along.
5.2 I am very pleased to see that the resolution that you drafted to pay tribute to me mentions the Board’s  task of interviewing candidates before nominating one of them for the post of Director-General. I am convinced  that we have made an excellent choice and I wish to extend once more to Mr Matsuura my best wishes for a  fruitful and successful mandate as the new Director-General of UNESCO. Once again, my sincere thanks to one  and all.
6. The PRESIDENT:  Allow me to thank Mr Chetsanga because, Christopher, you gave me great moral support during this  General Conference, and I do appreciate it very much. I think we were a pretty good team. I now give the floor to  the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koichiro Matsuura, who would like to say a few words.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Madam President, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I have the distinct honour to continue the  most pleasant tradition of expressing in symbolic terms the appreciation and gratitude of the Organization to the  outgoing Chairperson of one of our two chief organs, the Executive Board. On this particular occasion, the  pleasure is twofold, since we have two persons to thank: Mr P4l Pataki, who presided over the proceedings of the  Board for all but the last of the biennium’s sessions, and Mr Christopher Chetsanga, who stewarded with  admirable dexterity the all-important 157th session just concluded.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en francais)
7.2 Monsieur Pal Pataki, distingué représentant de la Hongrie, Monsieur le Président, j'ai déjà eu l'occasion  de dire à quel point les travaux du Conseil exécutif au cours de ces deux dernières années - travaux que j'ai suivis  à distance avec un grand intérêt - avaient été décisifs pour la préparation de cette session de la Conférence  générale, autant que pour certaines de ses initiatives propres. Je n'en citerai qu'une : la création de l'Equipe  spéciale sur l'UNESCO au XXIe siècle.
7.3 Je sais, Monsieur Pataki, quel est votre attachement à cette Organisation et je vous félicite, en notre nom  à tous et à toutes, pour les efforts incessants que vous avez déployés afin que le Conseil s'acquitte pleinement de  sa mission essentielle. La Hongrie compte, en votre personne, un ami fidèle de l'UNESCO dont elle peut  s'enorgueillir. Je souhaite aussi vous dire personnellement combien j'apprécie votre "fair-play" et vos paroles de  soutien, qui me sont précieuses au moment où je prends mes fonctions. Acceptez, M. Pataki, la médaille d'or de  l'UNESCO en reconnaissance des grands services que vous avez rendus à cette Organisation.  (Le Directeur général remet la médaille d'or de l'Organisation à M. Pataki)  (The Director-General continues in English)
7.4 Mr Christopher Chetsanga, distinguished scientist, honourable representative of Zimbabwe,  Mr Chairperson, yours was no easy task, Sir, to take up the reins of the Board in mid-flight, so to say, and to  ensure that its work came to a conclusion for the smooth preparation of this Conference. I wish to thank you for  placing your wisdom in the service of the Organization and place on record the deep gratitude of the community  represented in its entirety in this room for having shown such attachment to the goals and objectives we all share.  Thank you, Sir, and as a token of our great appreciation, I have the honour to present you with the UNESCO  Gold Medal.  (The Director-General presents Mr Chetsanga with the UNESCO Gold Medal)
8. The PRESIDENT:  Well, friends, that was nice. It is always nice when an award is given to someone who actually deserves  it, as we saw here, in both cases.
760   ADOPTION DE LA RESOLUTION PORTANT OUVERTURE DE CREDITS POUR 2000-2001  ADOPTION OF THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 2000-2001  APROBACION DE LA RESOLUCION DE CONSIGNACION DE CREDITOS PARA 2000-2001  IIPHHATHE PE3ONHOIHH Ob ACCHTHOBAHHSIX HA 2000-2001 IT.  Yoor=Yeer old QIU lolois VI id 5155 Slade  TH IT2000—200 143 AY.
9. The PRESIDENT:  And now, back to work. The last item on our agenda this afternoon is item 3.4, Adoption of the  Appropriation Resolution for 2000-2001. The document corresponding to this item is 30 C/88. You may recall  that the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Commissions was held yesterday afternoon to  consider item 3.4. Now, before I give the floor to the Chairperson of the Joint Meeting, Ms Véra Lacoeuilhe, who  will present a report on their debate, I wish to remind you of the decision of the Joint Meeting concerning the  approval of the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. According to this decision, and in view of  the fact that we dealt with this matter this morning, we shall approve this project as amended by Commission III  in paragraph 05100 of document 30 C/5, as amended by Commission IV in paragraph 05300, and as approved by  Commission II. The above will, of course, be included in the final version of document 30 C/5. Ms Lacoeuilhe  now has the floor.
10.1 Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  it is my pleasure to present to you, at this last plenary meeting of the General Conference, the results of the work  accomplished during the Joint Meeting of the five Programme Commissions and the Administrative Commission  which I had the honour to chair yesterday afternoon, 16 November. At that meeting, we examined document
30 C/PRG/ADM.1 and Corrigendum which presented the modified version of the Draft Appropriation Resolution  for 2000-2001 - modified to reflect the proposals of the Executive Board in its final recommendations on the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 2000-2001 (30 C/6, Part IT) and the deliberations of the Administrative  Commission.
10.2 Madam President, the spirit of cooperation that prevailed permitted us to recommend unanimously, after  a short debate, that the final budget ceiling for 2000-2001 be $544,367,250 and that the General Conference  adopt the Appropriation Resolution for 2000-2001 as set out in the Annex to document 30 C/88 which is before  us. May I, at this point, convey my warm thanks to all the distinguished delegates who helped to achieve this  goal.
10.3 To conclude, I would like to report that, at the end of the debate, one Member State proposed that  detailed information on the budgetary implications of the draft resolutions adopted by the General Conference  should be brought to the attention of the Executive Board at its 159th session. It was agreed that this proposal  would be made in my oral report, rather than formulated as a decision of the Commission. Thank you, Madam  President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ms Lacoeuilhe. Are there any comments on this? The representative of India has the floor.
12. Mr RAO (India):  Madam President, as the previous speaker explained, all the issues were sorted out at the Joint Meeting  which was held yesterday afternoon. In view of the fact that there was absolute unanimity among all the  chairpersons of the five commissions and the Administrative Commission, I would recommend, in the light of the  unanimous support, that this resolution be adopted by acclamation. Thank you.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of India. I therefore propose that the General Conference take note of the  report of the Chairperson of the Joint Meeting and adopt by acclamation the Appropriation Resolution for 2000-
2001 contained in document 30 C/88.
13.2 It is so decided.
761   MESSAGES DE FELICITATIONS REÇUS A L’OCCASION DE L'INSTALLATION DU DIRECTEUR  GENERAL DANS SES FONCTIONS  MESSAGES OF CONGRATULATIONS RECEIVED ON THE OCCASION OF THE INSTALLATION OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  MENSAJES DE FELICITACION RECIBIDOS CON MOTIVO DE LA TOMA DE POSESION DE SU  CARGO POR PARTE DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  [TO3APABUTEJIBHBIE ITOCJIIAHUA TIO CIIVUAIO BCTYIDIEHHA B 1OJDKHOCTb 'EHEPAJIBHOI'O  JIUPEKTOPA  plod) mall Chad duos So 419 dogs Blu,  Jo THB BE HB HEL
14. The PRESIDENT:  I shall now ask the Secretary of the General Conference to give us an update of congratulatory messages  received on the occasion of the investiture of the Director-General, and I should like to thank Ms Lacoeuilhe and  everyone who took part in the Joint Meeting who made it so easy for us to adopt the Appropriation Resolution  for 2000-2001. I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference.
15. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente, comme vous vous en souvenez, les messages qui sont parvenus à  M. Matsuura le jour de son installation dans les fonctions de directeur général ont été mentionnés en séance  plénière. Je voudrais maintenant indiquer les noms des auteurs des messages arrivés entre le lundi 15 et ce jour.  Ces messages émanent des personnalités suivantes : M. Omer Hassan Ahmed Elbashir, président de la  République du Soudan ; M. Islam Karimov, président de la République d'Ouzbékistan ; M. Alpha Oumar Konare,  président de la République du Mali ; M. Valdas Adamkus, président de la République de Lituanie ; M. Maritti  Ahtisaari, président de la République de Finlande ; M. Mathieu Kerekou, président de la République du Bénin ;  M. Edouard Chevardnadze, président de la Géorgie ; M. Mélégué Traoré, président de l'Assemblée nationale du  Burkina Faso ; M. Paskal Milo, ministre des affaires étrangères de la République d'Albanie ; Mme Beatriz  Drauthamer de Gutierrez Walker, ministre de la culture de la République argentine ; M. Wolfgang Schüssel,  vice-chancelier fédéral et ministre fédéral des affaires étrangères de l'Autriche ; M. Vilayat Guliyev, ministre des  affaires étrangères de la République azerbaïdjanaise ; M. Ural Latypov, vice-premier ministre, ministre des  affaires étrangères de la République de Bélarus ; M. Louis Michel, ministre des affaires étrangères de la  Belgique ; M. Tito Hoz de Vila Q., ministre de l'éducation, de la culture et des sports de la Bolivie ; M. Hor  Namhong, ministre des affaires étrangères et de la coopération internationale du Royaume du Cambodge ;  M. Sok An, ministre d'Etat chargé de la présidence du Conseil des ministres, président de la Commission  nationale du Cambodge pour l'UNESCO ; M. Lloyd Axworthy, ministre des affaires étrangères du Canada ;  M. Augustin Kamara Rwakaikara, ministre de l'éducation de la République démocratique du Congo ; M. Hong  Soon-young, ministre des affaires étrangères et du commerce de la République de Corée ; M. Anney K. Norbert,  ministre de l'éducation nationale de la Côte d'Ivoire ; M. Moufid Shehab, ministre de l'enseignement supérieur  chargé de la recherche scientifique de la République arabe d'Egypte ; M. Abel Matutes, ministre des affaires  extérieures de l'Espagne ; Mme Tarja Halonen, ministre des affaires étrangères de la République de Finlande ;  M. George Papandreou, ministre des affaires étrangères de la Grèce ; M. Eugène Camara, ministre de  l'enseignement supérieur et de la recherche scientifique de la République de Guinée ; M. Monie R. Captan,  ministre des affaires étrangères de la République du Libéria ; M. Mohamed Latheef, ministre de l'éducation de la  République des Maldives ; M. Mohamed Achaari, ministre des affaires culturelles du Royaume du Maroc ;  Mme Nyamosor Tuya, ministre des relations extérieures de la Mongolie ; M. Arnoldo Valente Nhavoto, ministre  de l'éducation de la République du Mozambique ; M. Ram Sharan Mahat, ministre des relations extérieures du  Royaume du Népal; M. J.J. van Aartsen, ministre des affaires étrangères du Royaume des Pays-Bas ;  M. Lakshman Kiriella, ministre des affaires étrangères de la République socialiste démocratique de Sri Lanka ;  M. Mohamed Ghassan El Halabi, ministre de l'éducation de la République arabe syrienne. Merci, Madame la  Présidente.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Kol.
762   CLOTURE DE LA 30e SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  CLOSURE OF THE 30th SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  CLAUSURA DE LA 30* REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL
17. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koichiro Matsuura, who wishes to address  the delegates at the close of this session. Sir, you have the floor.
18.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, Cette 30e session de la Conférence générale se  termine au moment où je prends mes nouvelles fonctions. Elle aura été à la fois intense et difficile. Permettez-  moi donc, avant tout, Madame la Présidente, de vous exprimer, en mon nom propre, ainsi qu’au nom de  l’Organisation tout entière, notre reconnaissance profonde pour la manière dont vous avez su diriger ses travaux  jusqu’à leur aboutissement. Vous me permettrez, également, de redire toute notre gratitude au Président sortant  du Conseil exécutif, M. Christopher Chetsanga, ainsi qu’à son prédécesseur, M. Pâl Pataki, pour tous les efforts  qu’ils ont déployés au cours de ces deux années passées pour assurer le bon déroulement des travaux des  différentes sessions du Conseil. Je veux enfin remercier tous ceux qui, au fil de trois semaines fort chargées, ont  concouru à l’heureuse issue de cette 30e session de la Conférence générale, tant au sein des délégations des Etats  membres qu'en celui du Secrétariat de l'Organisation, sans oublier tous ceux, très nombreux, qui, à d’autres titres,  ont aussi contribué au succès de cette Conférence générale.
18.2 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, il est précieux pour un directeur général au premier jour  de ses fonctions de pouvoir prendre appui sur un ensemble de références solides. L’Acte constitutif de  l'UNESCO est à cet égard une source permanente. La voix de sa conscience en est une autre pour celui qui a  solennellement prêté serment d’exercer son mandat selon les droits et devoirs de sa charge. Le bilan des travaux  de la Conférence générale constitue la troisième et plus immédiate de ces sources.
18.3 Cent quatre-vingt-six Etats membres ont pris part à cette 30e session, que trois chefs d’Etat et trois  vice-présidents de la République ont honorée de leur présence, ainsi que deux premiers ministres et
206 ministres. Au total, ces salles de conférence ont accueilli plus de 2.000 délégués (plus précisément 2.477), et
26 représentants d’Etats membres associés et d’Etats non membres. Il y avait également beaucoup d'observateurs
(433) : huit de nos institutions-soeurs du système des Nations Unies, 58 d’organisations intergouvernementales et
356 d’une centaine d’ONG internationales. Sur les quelque 3.000 personnes présentes à un moment ou un autre,  une sur trois - 973 exactement - était une femme.
18.4 Cette session, Mesdames et Messieurs, était placée sous le signe du nouveau millénaire qui est proche, et  donc portée à se pencher sur l’avenir. Mais elle était aussi celle du lancement d’un troisième exercice biennal de  la Stratégie à moyen terme 1995-2001, et donc vouée à une certaine continuité. Le souci de la continuité et celui  de l’innovation se sont équitablement partagé vos débats.
18.5 Vous avez été unanimes à réaffirmer notre vocation de forum de coopération intellectuelle à vocation  éthique, mobilisant des partenariats, favorisant l’interdisciplinarité, anticipant les évolutions et définissant des  priorités.
18.6 Soulignant l’importance pour l'UNESCO de faire porter le meilleur de son effort sur les domaines et les  modalités qui lui assurent l’impact le plus significatif, vous avez mis en relief la notion d’avantage comparatif,  jointe à celle de coopération renforcée entre agences des Nations Unies, et plus largement encore avec tous les  partenaires du développement.
18.7 Vous avez renouvelé votre appui aux priorités données aux actions en faveur des jeunes, des femmes, de  l’Afrique et des pays les moins avancés, à l’impératif fondamental de lutter contre la pauvreté, à l’intérêt de  développer certaines stratégies régionales.
18.8 D’une manière générale, vous avez donné votre aval à la poursuite des orientations et des programmes  inscrits dans le Projet de programme et de budget 30 C/5 qui vous était soumis, affirmant par là votre volonté de  mener à bien l’œuvre accomplie au long des deux mandats de mon prédécesseur, M. Federico Mayor, à qui vous  avez rendu un hommage unanime et émouvant.
18.9 Cette approbation a été donnée dans un double esprit de consolidation et de renouveau. Consolidation  des acquis avant d’envisager de nouvelles dynamiques, notamment sous l’emprise d’une contrainte budgétaire  resserrée ; renouveau des méthodes, des formes d’ organisation, voire de certains caps, certes pour tenir compte  des limites budgétaires, mais aussi pour imprimer un changement novateur à l’Organisation et la mettre en  mesure de pleinement répondre à ses missions dans le contexte des premières années du nouveau millénaire.
18.10 Comme Monsieur l’ambassadeur délégué permanent de la France l’a encore rappelé lors de la  cérémonie d’installation du Directeur général, lundi, les Etats membres attendent une évolution de l’Organisation  en tant que telle, et espèrent en particulier la voir se transformer de l’intérieur pour mieux servir une  programmation que vous voulez fondée désormais sur des résultats clairement identifiés, davantage que sur des  ambitions trop générales. Cette tâche sera entreprise avec détermination, et menée à bien au rythme le plus apte à  assurer son réel succès, c’est-à-dire dans la durée, au-delà des premières mesures préconisées.
18.11 Ce renouvellement pratique de l’Organisation répond à une fin, qui est de substantiellement mieux servir  les peuples, dans l’intérêt desquels l'UNESCO a été créée. La tâche n’est pas simple, puisque l'UNESCO,  institution spécialisée, doit se donner les moyens de l’excellence dans ses domaines de compétence, et donc  s’organiser sur un mode qui valorise les compétences spécialisées, mais doit en même temps répondre à une  demande et servir des objectifs qui, eux, sont presque toujours composites, synthétiques. La réforme doit  fondamentalement toucher à l’articulation entre l’excellence spécialisée, d’un côté, et les champs d’intervention,  de l’autre, c’est-à-dire au type d’action qui est propre à l'UNESCO. C’est à partir de là que pourront être définies  les révisions à apporter tant à la structure de l’Organisation qu’à l’étendue de ses interventions. Les débats que  vous avez consacrés à l'UNESCO du XXIe siècle sont de ce point de vue une mine d’idées et de propositions,  souvent concrètes, qui aideront le Conseil exécutif et moi-même à proposer à la Conférence générale, à sa  prochaine session, un schéma révisé de l’Organisation et de ses programmes.
18.12 Vous avez soigneusement examiné les programmes envisagés dans le document 30 C/5, qui sera  remanié pour tenir compte des modifications que vous y avez apportées. Cet ensemble a reçu de vos débats un  éclairage très utile, qui me semble avoir notamment mis en lumière un certain nombre de traits que je passerai  brièvement en revue.
18.13 Ce matin, quand le Président de la Commission V a présenté son rapport, il s'est plaint de ce que  l'examen de la question de la communication a débuté très tardivement. Cet après-midi, je commencerai par elle  et ce choix est en soi significatif : dans la réflexion profonde que vous avez menée sur les mutations en cours  dans le monde, mais aussi sur le défi majeur que constitue pour nous tous le devoir de mettre un terme à l’excès  d’inégalité dont la pauvreté absolue est la manifestation la plus intolérable, vous avez justement insisté sur  l’enjeu consistant à contenir, réduire et tenter d’abolir l’écart entre ce que l’on appelle les "info-riches" et les  "info-pauvres". Vous avez approuvé le nouvel élan que donnerait en ce sens le nouveau programme issu de la  fusion du Programme général d’information (PGI) et du Programme intergouvernemental d'informatique (PIT).  L’accès de tous à l’information a été reconnu comme une condition de la participation de tous tant au  développement qu’à la gouvernance et aux possibilités d’évolution personnelle. En soutenant l’accès à  l’information dans le domaine public, l'UNESCO contribuera à maintenir un espace public face au pouvoir  toujours grandissant des forces du marché. Ce rôle s’impose notamment, d'une part, pour la préservation des  archives, réservoir de la mémoire du monde, et, d’autre part, pour la défense intraitable de la liberté d’expression,  de la liberté des médias, de la liberté de l’information - conditions de la démocratie et d’une culture de la paix. La  question d’une conférence mondiale traitant de toutes ces questions a été posée.  (The Director-General continues in English)
18.14 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, science is also heavily affected by the most significant changes  in the contemporary world: their development, their sociology, bear the mark of the changes brought in by  universal and instant access to information, use of databases and information technology. Much is expected of the  sciences to remedy the problems the world is experiencing in terms of health, nutrition, environment, resource  management, preservation of the conditions of life on Earth, but also in terms of the knowledge of societies,  people, civilizations, and of the understanding of the changes that are affecting humankind. We particularly  expect them to search for truth, exactness, certainty, which are in themselves fundamental values, and require  quality and deontology in the intellectual démarche of which UNESCO must remain the guarantor. But we also  worry about the sciences, in that their evolution raises a number of ethical issues, observed first in the field of  bioethics, but nowadays recognized over the full span of the fields of science and technology, witness the  creation of the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST).
18.15 You have strongly emphasized, in full accordance with the joint statement of the Chairpersons of the  five intergovernmental programmes, that the onward march of interdisciplinarity should be one of the responses
764   to these issues, and in particular that the social and human sciences, and philosophy first among them, should  have their full place in the overall contribution of the sciences to progress around the world. The Budapest  Conference, the Declaration on Science and the Use of Scientific Knowledge, and the Science Agenda -  Framework for Action, are solid bases which this Conference has endorsed.
18.16 I appreciate the importance your debates have attached to an approach by major problem area. The  enhanced coordination between the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the five  intergovernmental programmes concerning certain coastal areas is a good example of this. It will indeed help to  counteract the tendency to excessive fragmentation of projects and encourage stronger synergy.
18.17 The field of culture is the soul of UNESCO. By going back to the Stockholm Conference - incidentally I  had the pleasure of attending it myself - and its action plan, which places culture at the heart of development,  your debates have underlined one of UNESCO’s first raisons d’être. Culture is also at the heart of peace.  Although it is true that the recent past has seen warfare striking first at monuments, places of worship or other  historical symbols of the target populations, as if to aggravate the cruelty, we have also seen at this General  Conference the unprecedented adoption by consensus of a project on Jerusalem, Holy City of so many men and  women. May this be the sign of a new spirit linked to progress in the implementation of the peace accords.
18.18 Culture, for you, for UNESCO, first stands for wealth, diversity, cultural profusion, and not for models  or elitism. The attention you have paid to living cultures is an illustration of this. Your decision to bring greater  balance to the World Heritage List also reflects this concern for cultural diversity. UNESCO is and remains the  guarantor of cultural identity and cultural diversity in the production and circulation of cultural property.
18.19 I welcome the fact that the General Conference has reaffirmed UNESCO's role in the planning and  coordination of the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Your support for the statement on the  slave trade and slavery as crimes against humanity also stems from this dialogue, which will get nowhere without  the courage to face truths, in a quest for future harmony based on mutual respect.
18.20 There is nothing innate about such harmony, such truth. This has to be learnt, which is where the  irreplaceable role of education comes in. Education in human rights begins with education as such, on which it is  based and from which it stems. Teaching to live together is doubtless the foremost way in which UNESCO  should carry out its moral and ethical mandate, and all delegates strongly stressed this. Education for all  throughout life is a powerful clarion-call hailing from the Jomtien Conference at once far off and still so topical  as a cornerstone of our fundamental purpose. You have, however, and rightly so, underlined the various  dimensions of education: technical and vocational education, higher education, education in the arts and  creativity, education for sustainable development, educational policy, literacy training and reaching the  unreached, such as the street children, or the AIDS orphans to which the delegate of Kenya drew our attention.
18.21 All this calls for major funding and cogent policies - and many of you emphasized the importance of  educational reform. The key importance attached to the matter of educational policy seems to me to provide  indications as to what we should seek to do, and what we should leave to others. This is, after all, the essence of  UNESCO’s upstream mission: tirelessly mulling over problem areas, proposing directions, mustering the best  expertise, capable of pulling together teams on the spot and watching over the quality of the results obtained.
18.22 We also see here the demand for focus, in order to ensure effectiveness and relevance. Education, by the  sheer breadth of the areas it covers, is composite, but it is a single cause, and UNESCO should show this in  everything it does. Far from breaking this field down into increasingly small components and subcomponents,  leading to as many units and sub-units, each tempted to develop its own specific projects, programmes of such  significance need concentration by having them all aim in a concerted fashion for clearly identified results. In this  regard, I welcome the fact that the beginning of my term of office should coincide with the introduction of the  System of Information on Strategies, Tasks and Evaluation of Results, SISTER. Its very title speaks for itself  inasfar as it aims to set results, define and then implement strategies and tasks to reach them, and constantly  evaluate the state of progress so as to be able to adjust the strategies to the identified outcome. What the title  SISTER does not say, other than by contrast with George Orwell’s awesome Big Brother, is that it also calls for a  new mindset: all staff at their various levels will need to contribute together to drawing up the results at the  relevant levels, thus requiring permanent dialogue between officers-in-charge. This will bring a keener sense of  responsibility-sharing and greater collective efficiency. In the coming weeks, we shall all be buckling down to  this new system. It should instil a new working spirit within the Secretariat, combining responsibility,  accountability, trust, communication and a better understanding of common objectives.
18.23 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debates on financial and administrative matters have  produced a number of important directions addressed to the Director-General which I shall attentively follow.
27   Without going into details, I would like to stress that I am aware of the existence of a number of serious problems  relating to the issues of budget management, both in respect to staff and to programme implementation; problems  of modern management tools; and problems relating to the proper maintenance and renovation of the  Headquarters complex.
18.24 All components of the UNESCO administration need to be strictly attuned to the accomplishment of the  Organization’s mission: the efficient execution of its programme. We accordingly have to ensure that programme  sectors have the necessary resources to accomplish their tasks. Programme requirements, and nothing else, must  prevail when formulating and implementing the policy for personnel and decentralization, and not vice versa.  This is the main thrust of the resolutions adopted by this session of the General Conference. The functioning of  all central services and administrative units has also to be seen from this angle. The Organization would also do  well to reshape and reinforce its own control and evaluation mechanisms, and to make better use of its  cooperation with the External Auditor.
18.25 But it is not just a matter of the central services and administrative units: our operational arms in the  countries and regions of the world are a vital part of the UNESCO machine. The Conference has said much about  decentralization. I have heeded your call for a thorough review of the system, and we shall be immediately  tackling the issues of ensuring that this vital presence of the Organization around the world is in harmony with  our overall objectives, and that it is both structured and staffed fully to meet the needs and expectations of our  Member States, both individually and collectively.
18.26 Tt is too early for me to take decisions regarding these problems, but I can assure you that these will be  taken, and taken in close cooperation with the Executive Board.
18.27 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you need not be reminded that this session of the General  Conference took place within an atmosphere of staff unrest. Without going into the details of this unfortunate  episode, I believe it can be said that it is the illustration of a need for renewal in the style and functioning of the  Organization. Your decisions provide the resources for that to be done, notably by voting the first tranche of  funds for the now urgent replacement of management systems. You also know, however, that such changes have  much more to do with the mentalities of the main actors of the system, and that that is where much of the effort  needs to be focused. Staff policy, particularly over the coming years when there will be such a substantial  turnover, is at the heart of this subject, and nothing will be achieved without a renewal of each staff member’s  inner drive and motivation. What I can pledge as of now is that, in full accordance with my duties and  responsibilities, a new harmony in staff relations under my administration will ensure that the atmosphere in  which the proceedings of this Conference have taken place will not recur.
18.28 Ladies and gentlemen, this General Conference has, for the first time I believe, been accompanied by a  sort of parallel conference in the shape of the Youth Forum, and I welcome the fact that this initiative has enabled  our Organization to submit its plans and practices to the consideration of the representatives of the young people  of 95 Member States, who have adopted a declaration which we shall carefully take into account.
18.29 UNESCO is a young organization, like its mission. Its future is to be invented, and the debates of the
30th session of the General Conference have made a signal contribution. I now have the duty to implement the  directions you have set, and I will do so in the knowledge that in each and every Member State present in this hall  where its collective ambitions have been drawn up, I have a resolute and determined champion of UNESCO.  That is a source of confidence and hope for me. Thank you.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. Now distinguished delegates, Mr Director-General, allow me a few  words. I do not have anything in writing and so my presentation may be slightly erratic, but you will forgive me. I  shall start with the thanks. I should like to thank everyone in the Secretariat who helped this General Conference  to function. I certainly thank the Secretary of the General Conference and his team. I should like to thank the  Executive Board, the people who worked in the commissions, but above all the commission Chairpersons  because theirs was the hardest task. I should like to thank the interpreters, the people who took care of the rooms,  the security guards, simply everyone. I should like to render special thanks to the two women who were a great  support to me, my two assistants. I would ask them to stand up. And I should like to thank all of you who  sometimes found the going difficult and yet found solutions and exercised patience and understanding. This is  truly the spirit of UNESCO.
192 When you honoured me by giving me your confidence nearly three weeks ago, I thought how long these  three weeks would be. But they have passed in a trice, and now that the difficult times have been overcome I find  it very hard to say goodbye and to part with you, because I think that we have all become friends. So many
766   people have said that one always learns something in UNESCO, that you always leave enriched by something,  and this is a fact which is hard to explain. It is perhaps because there are so many countries here, the whole  richness of the world. I had my husband here for a few days, and he knows of course all about my attachment to  UNESCO, which I have talked so much about. But you know, it was only when he was sitting here during the  roll-call vote when we were electing you, Sir, and he heard the names of the countries, some of which he did not  even know existed - and the marvellous geographical jumble that the French alphabetical order causes, as you  can see when you look around - he suddenly discovered the world and learned to appreciate it, at 75 years of age.  He discovered and learned to appreciate Africa, and the Caribbean that he has never visited. You know, it is quite  an experience.
19.3 I used to be angry during my political career when people would use the expression “ordinary people”  when talking about the general public. There is no such thing as ordinary people. Every person is unique and  there is no such thing as an ordinary country, an unimportant country, because each one of them is unique, as are  its culture and traditions. I know that many countries have had, are still having and may yet have a very difficult  time, and this is mostly caused by hate, prejudice and misunderstanding. This is what Mr Federico Mayor always  used to say and he was right. And these are the things that can be overcome by education. Some of you who were  here during the general policy debate know that I listened to every single one of the speakers in the debate, and I  can tell you that each and every one of them attached the greatest importance to education and most of them to  ethics, and they go hand in hand, as they do with culture and science as well, of course, that is well understood. I  must say that this Conference has been a historical conference, even though - if I may be allowed a pun - it has  also had its hysterical moments.
19.4 I must say that my parliamentary experience has stood me in very good stead and I do think that it would  be a very good idea for the countries and for UNESCO as such to develop more contacts with parliaments  because, after all, it is the legislatures that work on legislation, and if we need legislation that would answer our  needs, we would do well to be in touch with the legislators and not only the governments - though of course I  concede that UNESCO is an intergovernmental organization.
19.5 So our family has grown, we have the Federated States of Micronesia, we have Palau, and we have a  new Director-General. I know that many people are wondering what this is going to be like. Well, I am sitting  right next to him and one thing I can sense is his human warmth. We have a Director-General who will be able to  manage what has to be done. He will work in a different style, no doubt. A quieter style, perhaps, but I have no  doubts about the efficiency and about his listening to people. He will listen to the Executive Board, to the  National Commissions, I know he will. So I am really optimistic about the future and I wish you would be, too,  because it is only when one is an optimist and is firmly resolved to have faith and not to give up that things can  actually be achieved. What we want to achieve we very well know, so let us not be sceptical, because scepticism  is absolutely paralysing, it is deadly. Let us hope for the future. We are indeed at the end of the century, and  before I meet many of you again we shall be in the next millennium. I would like you to know that I am at your  disposal at any time and, Mr Director-General, Sir, you know that of course, too, and I thank you again very  much for your confidence.  (The President continues in French)
19.6 Et puisque nous n'aurons pas l'occasion de nous retrouver d'ici la fin de l'année, je voudrais vous  présenter mes meilleurs voeux pour l'an 2000 et pour le nouveau siècle. Je vous souhaite à tous une excellente  santé et j'espère que lorsque nous nous reverrons régnera dans le monde la paix que méritent tous les peuples.  (La Présidente poursuit en anglais)
19.7 I shall now close the thirtieth session of the General Conference. I thank you all.  (Applause)  La séance est levée à 16 h.35  The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 16.35