Troisième séance plénière
27 octobre 1999 à 10 h.25  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Third plenary meeting
27 October 1999 at 10.25 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Tercera sesiôn plenaria
49   ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DE LA MICRONESIE EN TANT QUE NOUVEL ETAT MEMBRE DE L'UNESCO  FORMAL WELCOMING OF MICRONESIA AS A NEW MEMBER STATE OF UNESCO  BIENVENIDA SOLEMNE A MICRONESIA COMO NUEVO ESTADO MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO  ODHI[HAJIBHbIEF IIPHBETCTBH5I 110 CIVYAIO ITPUHATUA MHKPOHE3HH B KAYECTBE  rOCY/APCTBA - UIEHA IOHECKO  Sand gl dy ge 3) bug Sao Ugo ploily sais  EWR 50 D Je VEN ER SCH ARH = di El
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the third plenary meeting of the 30th session of UNESCO’s  General Conference. I am sorry we are late in starting, which was due to a meeting of the General Committee and  may happen again. In normal circumstances, I would very much appreciate punctuality as there is a lot to be  discussed and decided.
1.2 During this session of the General Conference, we have great pleasure in welcoming among us the  Federated States of Micronesia, which joined UNESCO on 19 October 1999. The instruments of acceptance have  been submitted for consideration and accepted in accordance with the Constitution of the Organization. I now  have the honour of inviting the Honourable Redley Killion, Vice-President of the Federated States of Micronesia,  Head of Delegation, to come up to the podium to place his country’s flag. So this is a festive occasion.  (The Head of Delegation of the Federated States of Micronesia  places the flag of this country on the rostrum)  (Applause)
1.3 Let me congratulate Micronesia as a new Member State. I should also like to express our own  satisfaction at having Micronesia among us — the small States have often contributed a great deal to the  Organization.  INSCRIPTION DE NOUVEAUX POINTS A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  INCLUSION OF NEW ITEMS IN THE AGENDA  INTRODUCCION DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA  BKJIIOUYEHHE HOBOTO ITYHKTA B HOBECTKY JHA  Jel Jas 3 apa 9g of 0!  FERRET FIANFIH
2. The PRESIDENT:  Before tackling the first main item on this morning’s agenda, that is document 30 C/2 Rev., which  contains the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the organization of the work of the 30th  session of the General Conference, I wish to inform you that the General Committee of the General Conference  held its first meeting this morning. It approved the list of speakers for the meetings of today and tomorrow. The  General Committee also recommended to the General Conference the addition of a number of items to the  agenda. I therefore invite the Secretary of the General Conference to read out the proposed new items.
3. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Bureau était saisi ce matin de trois propositions d'inscription de  nouveaux points à l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale. Faute de temps, il a dû différer l'examen d'un de ces  trois points jusqu'à sa prochaine réunion. À l'issue de la réunion de ce matin, le Bureau recommande à la plénière  l'inscription à l'ordre du jour des deux points suivants : "Proclamation du 21 mars comme Journée mondiale de la  poésie" et "Admission des îles Caïmanes en qualité de Membre associé de l'Organisation”. Merci, Madame la  Présidente.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  In accordance with the recommendation of the General Committee, you are asked to place two new  items on the agenda. May I remind you that a two-thirds majority of members present and voting is required in  this case. Are there any objections to placing any of these items on the agenda?
4.2 The inclusion of these items on the agenda is thus approved.
(25) Jus Ÿl puis  TEE (82)
5. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now take up item 1.6 concerning the organization of the work of the 30th session of the  General Conference. In this regard, I wish to inform you that the General Committee at its meeting this morning  considered the issue of the deadline for submission of appeals concerning decisions on draft resolutions. As you  know, according to Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, Member States may submit  such appeals to the General Conference. The General Committee therefore recommended that the deadline for  the reception of such appeals should be Tuesday 2 November 1999 at 6 p.m. Are there any comments or  objections? I see none, but the Secretary of the Conference would like to comment on this matter. Mr Secretary,  you have the floor.
6.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Bureau, en recommandant l'adoption par la plénière de l'organisation  des travaux de la session proposée par le Conseil exécutif, a suggéré d'y apporter un certain nombre de  modifications dont il recommande maintenant l'adoption. Je voudrais porter ces modifications à votre  connaissance.
6.2 Premièrement, le point 4.2, qui concerne les institutions éducatives et culturelles dans les territoires  arabes occupés, devrait être examiné seulement par la Commission IT (éducation) au cours de cette session et non  pas, comme cela était prévu, par les Commissions IT et IV (éducation et culture).
6.3 La deuxième modification recommandée consisterait à transférer l'examen du point relatif à la  décentralisation (point 5.2) de la Commission I à la Commission administrative. Je répète, la décentralisation  serait donc, si la Conférence générale accepte cette recommandation, examinée par la Commission administrative  et non plus par la Commission I.
6.4 Et enfin, le Bureau a jugé souhaitable que le projet de résolution DR.7, qui a trait à l'évaluation des  rapports mondiaux, soit examiné par la Commission I et non pas, comme le Secrétariat l'avait prévu en le  distribuant, par l'ensemble des commissions de programme.
6.5 Telles sont les modifications recommandées par le Bureau aux propositions du Conseil exécutif.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I should like to observe that the matter has been thoroughly discussed and that a consensus was reached.  May I then assume that documents 30 C/2 and Addendum are approved as recommended by the General  Committee.
7.2 I see no objections. Document 30 C/2 and its Addendum are approved.  DEUXIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS ET  PREMIER RAPPORT DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  SECOND REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE AND FIRST REPORT BY THE  CHAIRPERSON OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  SEGUNDO INFORME DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES Y PRIMER INFORME DEL  PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION DE PODERES  BTOPOÏH JOKJIAJI KOMHTET A I10 ITPOBEPKE THOJIHOMOYHÀ H ITEPBBIN JOKJIAT  [IPEJCEJJATEJISI KOMUTETA TO I[TPOBEPKE ITOJJHOMOYHI  Slade Gy pad dad Gud J JIV pu jill g obese) GS) and dad SUI py il  AREER S005 VIRE DLR ARUE BE SEXE M5 — VIRE
8. The PRESIDENT:  I shall now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, who will present the second  report of the Committee as well as the first report of the Chairperson. Mr Castells, you have the floor.
(9.1) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay), Chairperson of the Credentials Committee (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday I read out the first report of the Credentials Committee and I did  so in French because that was the language in which the report was written. However, it seems that this offended  the Cervantes-attuned ears of certain Spanish-speaking colleagues, so this time I shall take the trouble of translating  it.
(9.2) Since the first report of the Credentials Committee was read out in plenary on 26 October 1999,  credentials have been received in due form from Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Credentials have also been  received in due form from the delegations of the following countries that had previously submitted provisional  credentials: Bangladesh, Canada, Chad, Guinea-Bissau, India, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Ukraine and Uruguay.
(9.3) In conformity with the authority delegated to me by the Credentials Committee, I propose that the  General Conference accept these credentials. Furthermore, the delegation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, which  had not yet submitted credentials, has submitted provisional credentials. I propose that these provisional credentials  be accepted pending the submission by the delegation of that country of credentials in due form, and that this  delegation should be authorized to participate, in the meantime, in the proceedings of the current session of the  General Conference. Many thanks, Madam President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr Castells, and I thank the General Conference for having taken note of the reports.  INTRODUCTION AU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE  INTRODUCTION TO THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  INTRODUCCION AL DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL  BBEJIEHUE K OBCYXXJIEHUIO BOTIPOCOB OBILEH IOJIHTHKH  Fold! doin! 2230) Louis  SBURRRE SE
11. The PRESIDENT:  Moving now to an important item in our agenda, which will lead up to the general policy debate, I call  on the Chairperson of the Executive Board to present his report on the activities of the Board in 1998-1999.
12.1 Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished guests, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with UNESCO rules and established practice, the Executive Board presents,  through its Chairperson, a report to the General Conference on the Board’s main activities since the last General  Conference. My oral report is supplemented by a written report containing more detailed information so as not to  take up too much of the valuable time of the Conference.
12.2 Before proceeding any further, I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr Pâl Pataki, who was  Chairperson of the Board during most of the biennium. Under his able chairmanship, the Board assumed its  responsibilities thoroughly and effectively. Having chaired three sessions of the Board, Mr Pataki prepared a  major part of the report which I have the honour to present to you today. With the help of the Board during the
157th session, I had the responsibility of updating the document which reflects the major decisions adopted by  the Board at its last session.
12.3 Document 30 C/9 includes information about the Board’s activities at its 157th session which ended  only last Friday. This document is submitted to the General Conference in conformity with 156 EX/Decision 7.5.  In accordance with 156 EX/Decision 5.5, paragraph 6.C(a), it was examined by the Special Committee at its  meetings of 29 and 30 September 1999. The amendments proposed by the Special Committee and the Board as  well as the major outcomes of the 157th session have been incorporated into this document.
12.4 Another important document that the Board is submitting to the General Conference is document
30 C/6, Parts I and II, Recommendations by the Executive Board on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-
2001 and final recommendations on the proposed budget. As the title of the document suggests, it contains a  series of recommendations made by the Board concerning the Draft Programme and Budget (30 C/5). I will  develop this subject further as we proceed. But I wish to start with the organization of the work of the Executive  Board. Perhaps I should point out that the documents to which I will be referring a lot in my presentation are  documents 30 C/5 and 30 C/6 from the Executive Board of which you will have a visual recollection as you all  have them in your files.
12.5 In order to simplify the presentation of the Board’s 24-page report, I shall be using slides to summarize  today’s presentation hoping in so doing that I can present it faster and in a more lively manner. So we shall be  assisted by the projection facilities for the rest of the presentation.  (A series of slides is projected)
12.6 The first slide shows, from the 153rd to the 156th sessions, the Chairperson, Mr Pataki, and the Vice-  Chairpersons representing the different electoral groups of the Board.
12.7 The next slide concerns the 157th session of the Board, which was when I came in as Chair, and again  shows the Vice-Chairpersons for the different electoral groups.
12.8 The next slide shows the commissions and committees of the Executive Board: the Programme and  External Relations Commission, with its Chairperson, and likewise the Finance and Administrative Commission  and the committees.
12.9 The next slide shows the system for assessing the work completed or in progress at the 154th session. It  shows that a new integrated programming/budgeting/monitoring system was established, providing that the  Director-General’s report on programme execution was to include information on issues identified, objectives  pursued and expected results, the number and types of activities partially or fully implemented, and the financial  and/or human resources required. The Director-General’s report for the 155th session was in this new format.  The report had a table containing the budget, a list of the main activities implemented and activities in process of  implementation.
12.10 Then we move to the working methods of the Executive Board. Under 29 C/Resolution 88, the General  Conference recommended that the Executive Board should pursue the reform of its working methods. This  process started with consultations conducted by the Chairperson to elicit ideas. A paper was then produced and  sent to the Special Committee with some of the ideas that had come out of the consultation. One of the issues that  emerged was the need to reinforce the decision-making authority of the Executive Board. Another was the need  to monitor programme execution to ensure that there was clarity and coherence in execution. The Director-  General was to give a brief oral summary of programme execution. In the plenary meeting of the Executive  Board, this was followed by a question-and-answer session between the Director-General and the Board.
12.11 The next slide concerns collaboration between the Director-General and the Board. In carrying out the  work, the Executive Board oversees programme execution by the Secretariat. The Chairperson can convene  intersessional meetings with the Director-General and Board Members to obtain information on progress of  work. For the sake of credibility, the Board decided that Board Members should not be able to seek jobs in the  Secretariat until 18 months after they have left the Board.
12.12 The first Board session following a biennium should focus on assessing the achievements of the  previous biennium. In other words, the next session of the Board will look at what it has achieved during its
1998-1999 sessions.
12.13 In regard to personnel management policy, it was felt that there was a need for an appropriate and  transparent staff policy. UNESCO should establish a systematic approach to staff management policy. The Board  no longer wishes to be consulted on every appointment, promotion or contract renewal concerning staff at  D-1 level and above.
12.14 Tt also feels that the Special Committee should re-examine the Board’s methods of work at the beginning  of the forthcoming millennium, including the question of whether the Executive Board needs its own legal  adviser, the structure of the Board’s subsidiary organs and the reform of its working methods, which should be a  continuing process.
12.15 On the question of programme concentration, the Board felt the need to avoid duplication with existing  programmes and the fragmentation of programmes in terms of both programme content and budgeting approach.  As regards the proposed world network of geoparks, the first question to be answered is whether this new project  should come under the Man and the Biosphere programme or be run by the World Heritage Centre. The issue is  still under consideration.
12.16 In regard to the decentralization of UNESCO activities, that is to say, the concept of having certain  UNESCO activities transferred from Paris to Member States, 29 C/Resolution 89 invited the Director-General to  draft standard-setting guidelines and criteria and asked the Executive Board to submit the text of those guidelines  to the 30th session of the General Conference for approval. The Board stressed the need for a clear, solid policy  instrument with administrative and financial provisions to rationalize UNESCO decentralization and adopted a  decision (156 EX/Decision 5.1) with basic criteria for that purpose. These proposed criteria have been submitted  to this session of the General Conference for examination and approval.
12.17 A number of UNESCO intergovernmental conferences were held during the biennium, including the  Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for Development (Stockholm, March 1998), the World  Conference on Higher Education (Paris, October 1998), the International Congress on Technical and Vocational  Education (Seoul, 26-30 April 1999) and the World Conference on Science (Budapest, June 1999).
12.18 The purpose of UNESCO’s cooperation with the United Nations system is to share experiences on  reform modalities within the United Nations and operate a “division of labour” within the system. We need to  increase the visibility of UNESCO’s programmes within the United Nations system so that other United Nations  agencies are fully aware of UNESCO’s activities. But we also need to ensure the effective participation of  UNESCO in United Nations initiatives such as the First United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty,  the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education and the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and  Non-Violence for the Children of the World. The Board also felt that cooperation with UNICEF through the  UNESCO/UNICEF Joint Committee on Education was an important activity that should be pursued.
12.19 Among the outputs of the Programme and External Relations Commission during the biennium were the  establishment of a World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology which will foster  dialogue between scientists, decision-makers and the public at large, the International Institute for Higher  Education in Latin America and the Caribbean and the International Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa,  which is located in Addis Ababa. The Commission also considered the Transatlantic Slave Trade and Slavery: A  Crime against Humanity, which is on the agenda for this session of the General Conference, the statutes of the  International Bioethics Committee, and the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights.
12.20 As for the Finance and Administrative Commission, I shall again summarize just a few of its activities.  The Commission made use of an earlier innovation whereby a group of experts on financial and administrative  matters assisted it by carrying out detailed analyses and producing a useful document for the Commission. The  report of the External Auditor was discussed in detail at meetings of the Commission during the 155th, 156th and
157th sessions of the Board, which made decisions on actions and on the necessary follow-up by the Secretariat.  It also held long debates on the budget in document 30 C/5 and at the same time examined the Organization’s  personnel policy.
12.21 We now come to the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2000-2001 biennium. In
155 EX/Decision 4.1, the Board asked the Director-General to prepare document 30 C/5 on the basis of  principles relating to UNESCO’s functions and forms of action required, programme concentration,  transdisciplinarity — which involves a number of intersectoral cooperation activities — and evaluation for  efficiency. Two budgetary scenarios were to be proposed — a zero nominal growth budget and a zero real growth  budget. The process should take into account all expenditure that is essential for the smooth running of  UNESCO. At its 156th session, the Board noted the clarity, readability and transparency of document 30 C/5,
54   which promoted the evolution towards a results-based programming/budgeting/monitoring system consistent with  the strategic orientations desired for UNESCO.
12.22 Document 30 C/6, which contains the recommendations by the Executive Board on the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2000-2001 and which you have in your files is intended to specify points that the  General Conference has asked the Director-General to explain in detail. The Director-General facilitates the  Board’s monitoring function by providing a concrete and concise report at each session showing the results  achieved in relation to goals set and the allocation of resources to activities. In regard to the Draft Programme  and Budget, the Board recommends to the General Conference a budget ceiling of US $544,367,250 for the
2000-2001 biennium at the exchange rate of 5.70 FF to the United States dollar. It has invited the Director-  General to prepare within the financial limit of this ceiling any necessary adjustment to document 30 C/5  approved and to submit such adjustments to the Board at its 159th session. The Director-General is urged to  promote savings of some US $10 million to be used in funding other activities of UNESCO.
12.23 I shall now turn to the Committee on Conventions and Recommendations, which examines, in private  meetings, communications received by UNESCO concerning alleged violations of human rights in UNESCO’s  fields of competence. These issues are presented to UNESCO by Member States. The Committee submits its  reports to the full Board in a private meeting. It could be said that this Committee’s work constitutes the  conscience of UNESCO and its intervention has resulted in the release of many political prisoners and other  victims of oppression.
12.24 The Committee on International Non-Governmental Organizations deals with UNESCO’s relations with  NGOs and examined issues of classification and the admission of new members to this relationship with  UNESCO. It also considered material and financial arrangements for cooperation with such organizations. Part of  its work included an examination of its own terms of reference so that other partners such as National  Commissions could be included in the NGO system.
12.25 The Board held a number of thematic debates. At its 155th session, as part of the fiftieth anniversary of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it held a debate entitled “A Duty to Remember and be Vigilant —  From Slavery to the Full Attainment of Human Dignity” which was attended by a number of eminent persons,  including Mary Robinson, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Archbishop Desmond Tutu  (South Africa), Ms Rigoberta Menchû (Guatemala), H.E. Mr Bronislaw Geremek (Poland), Mr Robert Badinter  (France), Mr Mohammed Bedjaoui (Algeria) and Ms Corazon Aquino (Philippines). Another debate was held at  the 156th session entitled “Reflection on UNESCO in the Twenty-First Century”, as a result of which a task force  has been set up in UNESCO to carry out detailed reflection on the structure and functions of UNESCO in the  twenty-first century. More recently a dialogue on the slave trade and slavery was held on 22 October 1999. The  Board was addressed by Ms Christiane Taubira-Delannon, a member of the French National Assembly. She is the  author of the draft law, subsequently passed by the French National Assembly, on the recognition of the slave  trade and slavery as a crime against humanity. The dialogue served to remind us all about this tragic event in  human history.
12.26 One of the major activities of the Executive Board is to carry out the procedure for nominating a  Director-General for UNESCO. The process started at the 155th session, at which the Board asked the  Chairperson to write to Member States inviting them to submit applications, together with the personal history of  any candidate, by 6 April 1999. At the 156th session a few applications had been received and it was decided to  extend the deadline to 10 September 1999. At the 157th session following the resignation of the Chairperson of  the Board, who was a candidate for the post of Director-General, I was elected Chairperson to replace him.  Eleven candidates were interviewed in private on 13 October 1999. Voting took place on 18, 19 and 20 October
1999, when Mr Koichiro Matsuura (Japan) won the election for nomination.
12.27 Ladies and gentlemen, this ends my summary of the activities of the Executive Board during the 1998-
1999 biennium. There are a lot more details on each one of the topics covered in the paper that was given to you.  I have attempted to summarize the salient features of that report and hope that it has been useful for you to gain  an appreciation of the work of the Executive Board. The Board is very much alive and actively engaged in the  process of reforming itself and its working methods. For me, it has been a privilege and an honour to serve as its  Chairperson. Thank you for listening.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr Chetsanga, you did a marvellous job and you certainly made it clearer and more colourful  with the slides, and you are also to be thanked for conducting the most recent session of the Executive Board. I  should like to take this opportunity to thank also Mr Pâl Pataki who deserves our appreciation for the way he
55   conducted the Board meetings during the past biennium and who is likewise to be thanked for his contribution to  the Organization.  (Applause)
13.2 I now give the floor to the Director-General of UNESCO who will present his introduction to the  general policy debate. Mr Director-General, you have the floor.
14.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Madam President of the General Conference, honourable Ministers, distinguished representatives of the  Member States, observers, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, ladies and gentlemen, the  general policy debate which opens today is, in my view, the key moment in the life of the Organization. It is the  moment which brings together the highest officials of countries that make up UNESCO, that are UNESCO. They  define the guiding ideas which inspire the actions not only of the Secretariat but, more especially, of each one of  the 187 Member States of the Organization, and of the many partners who also serve the ideals of UNESCO. It is  for this reason that the result of this debate in plenary must be the most important guiding source for all the other  meetings of the governing bodies, of the Executive Board and of the Director-General and the Secretariat. You  are UNESCO and therefore we are here to listen to what you have to say and to the orientations, inspirations and  positions you want to convey to us.
14.2 For UNESCO is its Member States, and consequently is the peoples, united in a shared undertaking  which concerns them first and foremost: this is made perfectly clear in our Constitution, when it says that the  governments sign on behalf of their peoples - and, as you know, in the Charter of the United Nations, with the  peoples. Therefore, you represent the peoples and we know that you do so for the sake of this union, the UN of  UNESCO, the union of these nations, all together because they believe in education, science and culture as the  building-blocks of peace and understanding, for this “intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind”, as is  enshrined in our Constitution.
14.3 Discussions have often centred on the budget and staffing levels, on posts at Headquarters or in our field  offices. But UNESCO is much more than this, much, much more. UNESCO is, above all, a political project,  present in all its Member States, a project which the world needs today more than ever. A guiding ideal. When  the debate focuses exclusively on the action of the Secretariat, it misses its mark, because this action, good or  excellent as it may be, is only a small part, I repeat a small part, of what UNESCO is. The essence, represented  by the General Conference, spans a much larger scope, it mobilizes energies on a far greater scale than that of the  Secretariat alone. And so this is why, when you attend sessions of the Executive Board, and now of the General  Conference, please do not look only at what the Secretariat has done, but at what we have done, in each country.
14.4 This, ladies and gentlemen, is the sixth and final time that I have the honour of opening the general  policy debate where, at the start of each biennium, the thoughts and the vision of the Organization are renewed  and updated. Over these 12 years, we have covered a great deal of ground. Over these 12 years, we have,  together, taken the necessary steps to be ready for the future. What capacities, what opportunities, and especially  what projects do we now have? At the end of the mandate that you twice entrusted to me, I would like to take a  few moments to look back on the path taken and to try to answer that crucial question. What capacities, what  opportunities and, especially, what project do we now have? To have a car is important, and to have the fuel is  absolutely indispensable. How much fuel? How big a car? How powerful should it be? But the only thing that  really matters in the end is what direction the car is going in, and to do what.
14.5 To make an appraisal of UNESCO’s development over the past 12 years, we may ask: what was  UNESCO’s situation when, in November 1987, at its 24th session, the General Conference elected me Director-  General. The Organization had just lost three of its Member States and 30% of its budget. It had to cut staffing  levels in the Secretariat by a third. The reason was an apparently minor change to Article I of our Constitution -  to add “balanced” to “free” in the “free flow of ideas” - a change never made by the General Conference, but  used as the excuse for the withdrawal of two Member States founders of the Organization. It is true, and it is for  this reason that the new Strategy has made it clear, once and for all, that we must respect our Constitution. It is a  good and inspiring instrument and when our Constitution states that UNESCO must guarantee this free flow we  cannot add “balanced”. Who will balance freedom? Freedom is like the sea, the sea cannot be restricted by gates.  However, following a major media campaign, UNESCO’s credibility was weakened at the international level.  The effects of a protracted debate on its mission and its options greatly limited its intellectual impact.
14.6 This is a lesson to be learned. What really matters is to put into practice the Constitution, which, I repeat  and insist, is, in my view one of the most inspiring documents and sources of guidance to have been written in  this century. Let me make a prediction. In the era of cyberspace, the “technical” organizations will disappear in
10 to 15 years’ time. The ethical institutions, those that denounce, those that are the conscience of the people at  this turning point in time in which we are living, those that are the voice of the voiceless, those that have the  courage to present decision-makers with elements for their decisions that are based on rigour, those institutions  that will spread universal values are the institutions that will remain.
14.7 At the same time, the perceptible emergence of a new civilization was triggered in 1987 by the  communication and information revolution and the social, cultural and economic consequences of the new  technologies. This called for a particularly active and creative response from UNESCO. The end of the cold war  did not fulfil the hope of peace in our time. The voice of UNESCO remained, therefore, as essential as ever: to  construct, every day, with perseverance, “the defences of peace” in the minds of men.
14.8 Facing challenges such as these in a weakened state, we chose not to limit ourselves to short-term  remedies, but, on the contrary, to go to the heart of the matter, to get to the roots of our problems. In each of  UNESCO's fields of competence, we launched in-depth undertakings that culminated in a world conference.  There was Jomtien for basic education. It was then - after the resolution of the freedom of expression issue that is  basic for democracy and therefore basic for human dignity — that the most urgent issue was to bring together the  United Nations system, the non-governmental organizations, the intergovernmental organizations — all together,  hand in hand, and to meet in Thailand, in Asia, because it is in this part of the world that we have the most  important problems relating to population and hence to education. In Jomtien we were dealing with education for  all. Education for all, throughout life.
14.9 And then there was Hamburg for adult education, and our new approach was that adult education is  much more than literacy: we must now stop saying that what the developing world needs is basic education and  literacy. The developing world will develop when it has education at all levels, including adult education, and  one part of adult education is literacy. This new Hamburg vision is in my opinion one of the important aspects of  this new approach that is so relevant today.
14.10 Then there was Seoul for technical and vocational education; and Paris for higher education. The Paris  Declaration had been studied at the regional conferences for over six years; it advocated access to higher  education on the basis of merit, of effort; higher education was to be considered not as the preserve of the  privileged, where they might sometimes spend many years, many more than necessary, but as being a permanent  space for higher learning for all citizens, on a permanent basis, with no frustration and no exclusion. They must  know that it is a space open to them as and when they wish and are able to enter it, if they have the merit. This is  up to them, and it is up to society to help them, and this is one of the most important tasks of learning without  frontiers, of open learning throughout life. This is the essence of Article 26.1 of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights. I remember that when I was Rector at Granada University, I realized that most of the students  were the privileged ones, those who were richest, that came from the more affluent families that were living in the  capital. And so I studied all the exclusion factors. Why were the best not there? Because there were geographical,  economic, political, linguistic, religious and gender factors militating against the presence of those with merit.  And I thought that on the occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights, the best way of celebrating it at UNESCO was to apply that Article 26.1 in relation to higher  education. Higher education must be this permanent space of higher learning and we adopted the Paris  Declaration. And now all these declarations must be reflected in studies in the different countries, in their  parliaments, and they will hopefully be incorporated into domestic provisions for a juster access, a socially more  balanced access to higher education.
14.11 Stockholm was there finally. Finally, culture was accepted as being a fundamental dimension not only of  development, but of human life, human dignity. And, more recently, there was Budapest, a retrospective and  prospective vision of what science can provide for the most important missions and tasks of our Organization.
14.12 During every one of these landmark conferences, we substantially modified our orientation, our plans  and projects in each respective field. This must be very clear: when we have a meeting we cannot say that we had  already decided three years before that we should do otherwise. We should do what the Member States decide at  any given moment. And to bear this closely in mind is, in my view, a very important, even essential, aspect for  the efficiency of our Organization. Political decision-makers, professionals and intellectuals now have solid  points of reference and universal guidelines that reflect their aspirations. The regular world reports that we now  publish in each of our fields of competence constitute a practical resource complementing these world  conferences. These are published every two years - we are now in the fourth year for education, in the third for  science, with the last one presented during the World Conference on Science in Budapest and covering also  human and social sciences. And I must tell you that I consider this to be an achievement because there were  serious difficulties involved but finally, with the experience of others, we were able to produce them, and I must  congratulate all those who have completed these biennial reports. Another point is the creation of the UNESCO
57   Institute for Statistics that will greatly enhance the collection and dissemination of quality statistical data that is  both reliable and policy-relevant.
14.13 Through all of these initiatives, UNESCO has proved itself to be an effective partner of its Member  States, providing a sound basis for policy-making. Meanwhile, however, statistics, even very refined statistics,  obtained now through the Internet, do not provide all the solutions. We can record what is happening in the  world, how many hungry people there are, how many people require support, but we cannot make immediate  provision for alleviating their plight. I think that the Institute for Statistics must describe the reality faithfully but  we must apply what we have already decided as possible treatment of the situation and if we consider that there  are still some shortcomings then UNESCO must take action to seek the best advice in this respect.
14.14 An excellent example of the type of decisive changes which follow sound policy options is to be found  in some of the most populated countries, where substantial and lasting increases in their education budgets have  changed the face of these societies, for the present and for the future. This is one very important example and I  must congratulate all the countries that have followed our recommendations to them in 1988 and 1999: do not  ask for loans for education; do not ask for loans because you will be unable to reimburse them. The funds for  education must come from a reshaping of your priorities. Some of these countries - and I must congratulate  Bangladesh, India, China, Indonesia, Egypt, Brazil and Mexico - have made immense efforts in this respect and,  with only our advocacy, persuasion, advice, this has generated billions and billions of dollars from their own  budgets. And they do not owe anything, they are not indebted, because of the promotion of education. This is  efficiency. This is the way to be followed by UNESCO. These are the intangibles of our efficiency.
14.15 And we have also taken care to act at the grass-roots level, by widely disseminating the declarations and  programmes of action of these conferences. We have aimed to reach the teachers, the scientists, the citizens, all  the stakeholders through whom, slowly but surely, changes in thinking and in practices can be brought about. I  would like to single out Education International, the world association of teachers. I extend my thanks to them  because for us teachers are essential, they are the corner-stone of the edifice we are building and this association  is particularly welcome. I must likewise acknowledge the contribution of all the broadcasting, radio and  newspaper networks that today constitute a means for promoting the ideals, messages and views of UNESCO.
14.16 So these world conferences were not only highlights of the activities of the international community;  both the preparations and the extensive follow-up have provided leverage for concrete changes, combining  political leadership and grass-roots mobilization. The Associated Schools network is an excellent example of this  far-reaching dissemination of UNESCO?s ideas and ideals, as are the UNESCO Clubs, all these networks of  associations and centres.
14.17 In parallel with this renewal of the central pillars of UNESCO's activities, we sought fo reinvigorate the  fundamental message of our Constitution, by infusing all of our programmes with the concept of a culture of  peace. From Yamoussoukro to Montevideo, from Prague - I remember this very important meeting on culture  and democracy under Vaclev Havel’s presidency - to Tunis, with the meeting on education for democracy,  Brasilia on democracy-building, Montreal on education for human rights and democracy and the United Nations  conference in Vienna; in all these ways and at many other meetings, the culture of peace has incorporated, from  the moment of its birth in Yamoussoukro in July 1989, the ideals of democracy and respect for human rights as  its basic principle; the notion of global security as its framework; and the ideal of a right to peace as its ambition.  Today, looking back over these past 12 years, looking at the return to UNESCO?s sources and at its future-  oriented action, we can take the full measure of the Organization’s reinvigoration.
14.18 Where do we stand today? UNESCO’s voice is one of those that counts and is listened to in the world.  We would like to be listened to more and to have more visibility but this does not depend on the Secretariat. We  can be movers and providers; the echo depends on the Member States. It is in the Member States that we hope  that all these messages, all these declarations will find their right place. The recent adoption of the Declaration  and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace by the General Assembly of the United Nations illustrates better  than any other example the contribution of our Organization to the emergence of a shared vision of hope and  responsibilities within the international community. In all its fields of competence, UNESCO has once again  become a point of ethical reference. Many declarations have marked the course of these past 12 years, and the  Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights serves as exemplary testimony to this ethical  role. I remember when we started to consider the possibility of exploring the issue of genetics being utilized to  make distinct human beings with predetermined characteristics. Such utilization was absolutely unacceptable, not  only from the scientific point of view but because it struck at the very roots of mankind and of human dignity.  And it was for this reason that we started, even if many countries - including some of them that have since  applauded this achievement warmly - were against this initiative. And I can understand why: these are very
58   controversial issues. They are difficult issues. They are complex issues. If they were not, then UNESCO would  not be needed. We are here precisely in order to face and to address the important challenges, not the easy ones.
14.19 At the financial level, ladies and gentlemen, even if budgets have stagnated, we have witnessed an  unprecedented increase in extrabudgetary resources. I must at this moment thank, and do so from the bottom of  my heart, all those countries that have, in very difficult situations, now made the cash-flow situation of the  Organization much better than it was. Because even those countries of which many people said they could not  and would not pay their arrears, have done so and are doing so, as a result of which our cash-flow situation has  much improved. I must also thank those countries that in the past year have provided this unprecedented  extrabudgetary support of nearly $170 million. This shows that the path we are pursuing is the correct one and is  supported by those countries. I have already given more detailed information about this to the Executive Board  but I would very much like to draw your attention to this unprecedented support, in the information provided to  the General Conference, where you may see the countries that are giving us this special support.
14.20 At the institutional level, UNESCO 1s today present in 70 locations around the world, enabling us to  closely support actions for the benefit of all countries. Now we are present in many countries, sometimes through  institutes, sometimes through field units, and this, in my view, is one of the most important aspects to be stressed:  UNESCO being receptive to Member States, listening to them, being close to them in order to be able to react  promptly and efficiently. We work in close partnership with the Member States, their governments, their elected  officials, their National Commissions, which are absolutely crucial, and in support of which we have provided  many millions of dollars so that they can have the equipment, the telecommunications and other facilities they  require, and also with all the other institutions present on the spot, the NGOs, and, particularly, the populations  and individual citizens.
14.21 This points to the very real presence of an organization that used to appear remote, confined to its  Headquarters that resembled an “ivory tower”, that had only three institutes, all of them in Western Europe; we  are now beginning - and I hope we will continue - to be close to the peoples, to the countries, to the Member  States, in order to become a truly universal organization. I hope that this network will bring stimulus and added  value to other networks that are active throughout the world and through which the goals of UNESCO are  concretely achieved.
14.22 This transformation, which has required in-depth restructuring, has been carried out for the past six  years without any budgetary increase. I would like to say this very clearly: never, in 12 years, has a single dollar  been spent above the budget ceiling for staff, and we have been working, as you know, with the same budget for  the last six years. The budget in real terms has decreased and we have been able to be just as efficient because we  have had other modalities of staff cooperation, such as the national professional officers, and local staff  consultants and other forms of cooperation. I must here, ladies and gentlemen, pay tribute to all those very  prominent personalities who have always been ready to say yes to UNESCO without being paid a single dollar.  As you know, the General Conference decided at the end of its last session to constitute a Council on the Future.  I have asked 64 world personalities to be a part of this virtual consultative network on the future, which by the  way is open-ended, that is to say it is open to all those who want to cooperate. Sixty-four personalities, and all of  them have agreed, showing that a “yes” to support for UNESCO at the top level is really available, and I must  express my thanks because this is without cost to the Organization. The influence of the Organization, the  constant widening of its circle of partners, the increasing interest in working under its auspices, under its  patronage, in cooperation with it and its assistance, involving UNESCO in the highest causes and the most  humble ones, such as a solar oven in Africa or basic training in a small village in Latin America - these are but  some examples of the efforts made to establish our Organization in the minds and hearts of people everywhere.  And we cannot be in the minds and hearts of the people if we are only in a very distant ivory tower.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en francais)
14.23 Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs.  Quelles missions pour l'UNESCO au XXIe siècle ? Forts de ce redressement, nous avons désormais des  responsabilités accrues. A l'heure où s'ouvre votre Conférence générale, je vois pour ma part se dessiner trois  enjeux fondamentaux.
14.24 Le premier est l'enjeu formidable de l'éradication de la pauvreté, de cette misère scandaleuse qui devrait  nous enlever le sommeil. Nous sommes depuis quelques jours six milliards sur terre. Encore, et je m'en réjouis,  ce chiffre est-il inférieur de 160 millions aux estimations que nous avions faites en 1990 à Jomtien. C'est peut-  être la bonne nouvelle de cette fin de siècle : la courbe démographique commence à fléchir tandis que l'éducation  gagne du terrain. Compte tenu de ce chiffre de six milliards et de la proportion de jeunes en âge de procréer, nous  savons que la population mondiale va continuer de s'accroître pour atteindre huit à neuf milliards, mais nous
59   savons aussi que ce plafond ne sera pas ensuite dépassé de sitôt. Nous connaissons donc l'ampleur du problème  que nous avons à résoudre : désormais cerné, il peut faire l'objet d'un plan d'ensemble. Ce plan d'ensemble, nous  avons les moyens - scientifiques, intellectuels, matériels - d'en assurer la mise en oeuvre, mais celle-ci souffre  encore de l'absence de volonté politique et de constance dans l'effort. C'est par une politique de stabilité, par une  politique de sécurité et de paix à l'échelle mondiale, donc par une politique de partage, par une politique qui  prenne appui sur les développements endogènes, que nous parviendrons à faire face, à remonter à la source de ce  grand problème que représentent ces innombrables exclus, parmi lesquels une grande majorité de femmes, qui  vivent dans des conditions absolument intolérables. Le Président de la Commission du programme et des  relations extérieures du Conseil exécutif, M. Wandiga, du Kenya, a récemment dénoncé ce qu'il a appelé  "Economy without regard to humanity" - L'économie indifférente à l'humanité - et l'exploitation sans scrupule  des ressources naturelles reçues en héritage. Si nous voulons vraiment que chaque pays tire profit de ses  ressources naturelles, aujourd'hui exploitées par des entreprises étrangères, seule une telle politique nous  permettra de réduire, d'abord, puis d'éradiquer, la pauvreté. Mesdames et Messieurs, je le sais, j'en suis témoin, la  pauvreté pousse à la radicalisation, elle nourrit un sentiment de rancune, d'amertume, qui un jour s'exprime par la  violence, qui un jour se traduit par l'émigration massive. C'est pour éviter cela que nous devons - et que nous  pouvons - agir aujourd'hui, à l'échelle de la planète.
14.25 Le deuxième enjeu, c'est la mondialisation qui se poursuivra au siècle prochain, pour le meilleur ou pour  le pire, et qui pourrait bien jeter les bases d'une civilisation nouvelle. La mondialisation obéit aujourd'hui à des  logiques technologiques, financières, économiques, dont la puissance même appelle de manière urgente le  contrepoint vigoureux d'une action affirmative en faveur de l'être humain, qui risque d'être le grand oublié de ce  mouvement en train de se dessiner aujourd'hui. Le développement de la société de l'information, je le disais hier,  j'y reviens très brièvement, représente comme toute crise à la fois un danger et une chance unique de promouvoir  les valeurs défendues par l'Organisation, de promouvoir la démocratie, la paix, la justice, la liberté d'expression.  Il y a là une occasion rêvée de mettre en oeuvre efficacement les idéaux proclamés dans l'Acte constitutif de  l'UNESCO : la libre circulation des idées, une chance égale d'éducation pour tous - je cite le texte lumineux de  son article premier -, l'avancement et la diffusion du savoir, l'accès de tous les peuples à ce que chacun publie et  le renforcement des capacités des Etats membres, notamment de leur infrastructure.
14.26 La société de l'information est désormais un phénomène mondial. Par voie de conséquence, toutes les  organisations internationales ont dans leurs domaines de compétence vocation à traiter des questions qui s'y  rapportent et se doivent de coordonner et d'intégrer encore davantage leurs stratégies respectives. Nous devons  penser avant tout à ceux qui, aujourd'hui encore, sont dans l'impossibilité de se connecter aux réseaux  informatiques et donc de participer aux interactions qu'autorisent ces réseaux, parce qu'ils n'ont pas même  l'électricité. Le Programme solaire mondial revêt à cet égard une extrême importance et j'espère que l'on investira  davantage dans les énergies renouvelables, pour qu'un jour ces exclus aient eux aussi accès à la communication, à  l'information à l'échelle mondiale. C'est pourquoi l'organisation conjointe, par toutes les institutions compétentes  des Nations Unies, d'un sommet mondial sur la société de l'information pourrait être l'occasion de définir une  telle politique intégrée visant à défendre, comme je le disais hier, cette "res publica", ce bien commun mondial.  Mais il nous faut agir de concert. On ne saurait dissocier les contenus et l'infrastructure. Le sommet d'ores et déjà  annoncé par l'Union internationale des télécommunications ne portera que sur la technologie, mais il faut  s'intéresser aussi aux contenus.
14.27 Madame la Présidente, je n'oublierai jamais les mots par lesquels le professeur Sir John Daniel,  président de l'Open University, a commencé une conférence à laquelle j'assistais : "Mesdames et Messieurs, la  réponse c'est la technologie. Quelle était la question ?". La réponse consiste à mettre la technologie au service  des grands objectifs spirituels et intellectuels, pour assurer une meilleure distribution des connaissances. Les  contenus encore et toujours, tel est le défi majeur que nous avons à relever en matière d'éducation.
14.28 Le troisième enjeu, c'est l'ensemble des questions éthiques que soulèvent les transformations des sociétés  et les avancées des connaissances elles-mêmes. Ici encore, nous sommes en présence d'évolutions globalement  bénéfiques, mais dont l'ampleur, la portée, la rapidité imposent une très grande vigilance quant à leurs  conséquences sur ce qui fait l'essence même de l'humain. N'oublions jamais que notre Organisation a été créée en  sentinelle contre la négation de la dignité humaine, qui avait été au principe du totalitarisme responsable de la  deuxième guerre mondiale ; il lui incombe encore, aujourd'hui et demain, de veiller sur le patrimoine majeur de  l'humanité - qui, ne l'oublions jamais, est l'humanité elle-même. Chaque fois que l'on me dit que la visibilité de  l'UNESCO passe par la sauvegarde des monuments, je réponds que l'important pour l'UNESCO, c'est la  sauvegarde de chaque vie humaine, de chaque enfant, de chaque être humain.
14.29 Mesdames et Messieurs, face à ces formidables enjeux, que seront les missions de l'Organisation dans  les années à venir ? Vous allez débattre, dans les différentes commissions de programme, de ce que sera  l'UNESCO du XXIe siècle, mais il me semble que quatre grandes missions se dégagent en tout état de cause.
14.30 La première est une mission d'orientation intellectuelle. L'action des peuples et de leurs responsables  politiques a besoin de repères sûrs en termes de connaissance des réalités, d'analyse des problèmes, de  conception des orientations. L'UNESCO est d'abord l'enceinte où s'élaborent, au profit de tous, les références  d'une compréhension commune du monde ; elle doit donc être le lieu d'une extrême exigence intellectuelle.  L'UNESCO est aujourd'hui espace de rencontres, espace de toutes les libertés, de toutes les cultures, passées,  présentes et à venir. C'est dans cet esprit que nous avons adopté des déclarations en faveur des générations  futures. C'est dans ce même esprit que la Commission mondiale d'éthique des connaissances scientifiques et des  technologies réfléchit aux problèmes éthiques liés à l'énergie et à l'utilisation de l'eau. Il en est de même du projet  sur la traite négrière et la Route de l'esclave. Voici quelques jours, lorsqu'une députée de l'Assemblée nationale  française a présenté au Conseil exécutif le projet de loi dont elle est l'auteur sur la reconnaissance de l'esclavage  et de la traite négrière comme un crime contre l'humanité - rappelant à cette occasion les mots de Nelson  Mandela : "Vous ne pouvez pas oublier mais vous pouvez pardonner" - M. Tio-Touré, représentant de la Côte  d'Ivoire, inspiré par cet exemple, s'est exclamé à l'adresse de ses collègues : "Allez plus loin, allez plus vite !".  Oui, nous devons aller plus loin dans le cadre de ce grand espace de rencontres interculturel, interreligieux et  interethnique qu'est notre Organisation.
14.31 La deuxième est une mission de référence éthique. L'UNESCO n'a pas seule la charge de la "Défense et  illustration des droits de l'homme", mais la nature éthique de sa mission l'engage à établir et à faire respecter les  repères et les principes nécessaires à la sauvegarde de ce que l'humanité possède en commun - son patrimoine  culturel et naturel, son patrimoine génétique et surtout son patrimoine éthique, le patrimoine des valeurs  universelles.
14.32 La troisième mission de l'UNESCO est une mission de mise en relation des connaissances et de  l'expertise disponibles, de par le monde, dans tous les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation, et leur mise à  la disposition du plus grand nombre.
14.33 Sa quatrième mission est une mission de présence et d'animation, consistant à agir localement pour  stimuler et soutenir des initiatives concrètes, propager les expériences réussies et mobiliser les volontés, sans  jamais se substituer aux acteurs qualifiés. A l'aube d'un nouveau millénaire plein d'incertitudes, l'UNESCO - et  elle s'y emploie - se doit à cet effet de renforcer ses capacités en matière de prospective. Permettez-moi de vous  rappeler une fois encore les paroles de Gabriel Garcia Marquez à l'adresse de la jeunesse : "N'attendez rien du  XXIe siècle, c'est le XXIe siècle qui attend tout de vous". Pour remplir pleinement son rôle intellectuel et moral,  l'UNESCO doit être et devra rester une tour de vigie, un laboratoire d'idées. Il lui faut entreprendre l'exploration  de ce nouveau continent qu'est le XXIe siècle en s'appuyant sur les meilleurs esprits de notre temps, sur les  meilleurs intellectuels et chercheurs.
14.34 Madame la Présidente, entre ces quatre missions fondamentales qui se conjuguent et qui ne peuvent  véritablement s'épanouir séparément, il conviendra de moduler les proportions selon le rôle dominant que l'on  entend impartir à l'Organisation.
14.35 La mission de terrain est évidemment la plus visible, la plus urgente parfois, et la seule qui témoigne  d'un résultat tangible. Flle est indispensable, pour assurer la pertinence de tout ce que pense et fait l'UNESCO,  grâce à une écoute constante des populations, une présence participative aux côtés de ceux qui agissent. Mais ces  actions concrètes doivent demeurer des exemples, des références, des essais, des projets pilotes et ne valoir que  par leur généralisation possible, et par leur effet multiplicateur. L'UNESCO est une institution fédératrice  d'initiatives, rassembleuse d'énergies et d'idées, une instance de mise en commun. La part dominante de la  mission de l'UNESCO me semble résider dans l'interfécondation des acteurs du changement, du changement  social, du changement culturel, économique, politique ; dans la mise en relation de ceux qui conduisent le  changement et en maîtrisent les moyens, de manière à ce qu'ils prennent comme axe de leurs politiques et critère  de leurs succès le mandat que l'humanité s'est donnée à elle-même en créant l'UNESCO : préserver l'humain, tout  l'humain.
14.36 Mais ce mandat lui-même doit sans cesse être repensé, rapporté aux défis du temps présent, aux enjeux  prévisibles de l'avenir. La part irremplaçable de l'action de l'UNESCO réside à mon sens dans sa capacité  politique, normative, institutionnelle, intellectuelle de faire concourir toutes les nations, à travers leurs  représentants les plus éminents dans tous les domaines de l'esprit et de l'action, à la formulation rigoureuse et  créative des devoirs de l'humanité envers elle-même et des tâches qui en découlent. Au cours de ces prochains  jours, lorsque vous arrêterez les différents programmes correspondant à la dernière tranche de la Stratégie à  moyen terme de l'UNESCO, n'ayez pas seulement à l'esprit ce que le Secrétariat doit faire ici, mais songez aussi à  ce que chacun de vos pays peut faire sur la base de l'expérience déjà acquise, de façon à produire cet effet de  généralisation qui est le vrai critère d'efficacité.
14.37 Bienvenue au plan local, nécessaire pour mettre en relation acteurs de terrain et responsables politiques,  l'UNESCO reste et restera toujours indispensable comme cette enceinte internationale où se mènent un travail  intellectuel rigoureux et une réflexion éthique à la fois libre et globale. Quelle impulsion pourrions-nous donner  aux réseaux que nous animons, si nous n'avions d'abord la capacité de proposer des points de repère ? Quelle  valeur ajoutée présenterait notre action de terrain, si elle ne témoignait pas en faveur d'une conception différente  du développement et du progrès humain ?
14.38 Ces missions étroitement solidaires entre elles - de leadership intellectuel et éthique, d'animation de  réseaux d'information et de partage, de présence mobilisatrice sur le terrain - appellent bien sûr des formes  d'action très diverses, qu'il faut mener de front. Longtemps, l'UNESCO a procédé par le biais de réunions  d'experts et d'ateliers de formation ou par l'envoi de missions internationales. Plus récemment, elle s'est orientée  vers l'animation de réseaux divers, le partenariat avec les ONG, les parlements, les villes, la construction de  relations suivies entre universités, chaires UNESCO, ou équipes de recherche. Toutes ces formes d'action ont leur  vertu, et toutes doivent être mises à profit. Mais 1l faudra aussi explorer les ressources nouvelles de la technologie  qui permettent d'établir des relations d'un type nouveau, affranchies de la distance et du temps, et qui réorientent  l'emploi du temps humain vers l'action de proximité.
14.39 Il est aujourd'hui facile d'échanger à l'échelle internationale, au sein de ce groupe plus ou moins  homogène qui, dans tous les pays, fournit les effectifs de la classe dirigeante. Il reste toujours aussi difficile  d'articuler les idées partagées dans cette sphère internationale avec les réalités nationales et locales, et de les  mettre en relation dynamique avec les représentations de ceux dont la vie a encore un horizon limité au village ou  au quartier - c'est-à-dire l'immense majorité de nos contemporains. Et quand je dis, Mesdames et Messieurs,  l'immense majorité de nos contemporains, je ne pense pas seulement aux pays en développement.  Malheureusement, la connaissance du monde dans sa globalité est aujourd'hui très mince. Voilà un autre  changement à apporter aux contenus. Les enfants doivent apprendre dès leur plus jeune âge que la terre est ronde,  que le monde est grand, car il faut qu'ils puissent comparer et connaître l'histoire de la terre entière. Il n'y a en  effet pas d'éthique ni de valeurs sans mémoire et sans possibilité de comparaison.
14.40 Nous avons pour nous aider dans cette tâche les commissions nationales, établies, comme vous savez,  conformément à l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO. Je peux dès aujourd'hui vous annoncer la parution d'une  deuxième version des profils par pays qui est sensiblement meilleure que la première. J'espère que la troisième  sera meilleure encore. Je souhaite vivement que les commissions nationales nous aident de façon permanente à  perfectionner ces profils pour qu'ils reflètent la réalité de la situation dans chaque pays et révèlent quelles sont les  activités de l'Organisation et qui sont ceux qui collaborent le plus à l'accomplissement de sa tâche.
14.41 Il est temps à présent, comme je disais tout à l'heure, d'agir plus près des hommes et des femmes si  divers qui composent la réalité des sociétés ; il est temps de dépasser le cercle des élites, et de resserrer le lien  entre les initiatives développées localement et la visée globale que l'UNESCO poursuit à l'échelle internationale.  L'Organisation s'y efforce, depuis de nombreuses années, grâce notamment à son réseau d'unités décentralisées,  qui lui permet de fonctionner comme un ensemble de centres nerveux disséminés dans le monde entier, mettant  en pratique ce principe d'interactivité qui est au coeur même de sa mission. C'est à mon avis une question très  importante. Je vous demande de lire très attentivement le document que je présente sur la décentralisation parce  que j'estime qu'il s'agit là d'une vision de l'action de l'UNESCO qui relève d'une décision de caractère  essentiellement politique même si elle comporte des aspects administratifs. Je vous demande donc de vous  pencher sur cette question en toute sérénité en donnant la parole à tous ceux qui disposent aujourd'hui d'une unité  hors Siège ou d'un institut, ces organismes qui sont le prolongement du Secrétariat dans les Etats membres et  doivent être un représentant intégral de l'UNESCO, plutôt qu'à ceux qui en sont dépourvus ou à ceux qui, déjà  dotés d'une telle entité depuis très longtemps, pensent que les autres peuvent s'en passer. Vous pourrez ainsi  déterminer quels sont les vrais enjeux des démarches à mon avis aujourd'hui absolument indispensables à l'action  de l'Organisation.
14.42 Qu'est-ce que c'est qu'être un représentant intégral - question maintes et maintes fois posée ? Selon moi,  c'est d'abord et partout incarner et défendre le message éthique de notre Organisation, celui de la solidarité  intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité ; celui aussi de la primauté de l'être humain, détenteur originel des droits de  l'homme, que la société et l'histoire n'ont reconnus que tardivement et incomplètement et mis en oeuvre parfois  trop tard, parfois trop mal.
14.43 C'est incarner et défendre l'extraterritorialité de la culture, et cela, je vous le dis aussi, en ma qualité de  Catalan, d'Espagnol et de citoyen du monde. Il faut défendre l'extraterritorialité de la culture, parce que c'est un  patrimoine commun de toute l'humanité, et dont chaque être humain est un composant irréductible et  irremplaçable.
14.44 C'est plaider pour un changement dans les priorités, car nous avons les moyens de venir à bout de la  pauvreté et de l'exclusion, de la guerre et de la violence. C'est plaider pour qu'on investisse dans ce qui crée notre  richesse, la créativité humaine, plutôt que dans la protection illusoire de frontières aujourd'hui bien incapables  d'arrêter les vraies menaces.
14.45 C'est plaider pour tout ce qui n'a pas de voix et pourtant conditionne la survie de tous : les enfants, l'eau,  l'air, l'environnement, l'avenir, la beauté, la qualité des relations humaines, la tolérance, la paix. C'est être en  contact avec les parlementaires, les médias. Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est bâtir la démocratie au quotidien, c'est  avoir les droits de l'homme chaque jour présents à l'esprit, c'est penser à la jeunesse, à cette jeunesse qui hier est  venue ici nous dire quelles étaient ses priorités. C'est penser à toutes les possibilités qui existent de sauvegarder  la propriété culturelle, non seulement par le droit d'auteur, mais par cette spécificité que doit avoir tout produit  culturel. C'est demander que l'UNESCO participe aux négociations des institutions financières sur l'éducation,  parce que nous avons l'expérience requise et pouvons les guider. C'est demander que, lorsque l'Organisation  mondiale du commerce établira des normes concernant les produits culturels, l'UNESCO soit présente parce que  sa présence peut être déterminante pour apporter dans toute son ampleur l'indispensable touche humaine.
14.46 Madame la Présidente, j'en arrive à la conclusion. Je me suis un peu étendu sur les questions de fond qui  m'intéressent particulièrement, mais je ne peux pas terminer cette réflexion sur le rôle et les missions de  l'UNESCO à l'avenir sans aborder la question des ressources financières qui seront mises à sa disposition. Le  Conseil exécutif, vous l'avez entendu tout à l'heure, recommande à la Conférence générale d'approuver un  plafond budgétaire de 544.367.250 dollars pour l'exercice biennal 2000-2001, avec un taux de change de
5,70 francs français pour un dollar des Etats-Unis. À cet égard, il est nécessaire que vous soyez pleinement  informés. Je comprends plus ou moins les raisons pour lesquelles une réduction doit être opérée ; mais, en ma  qualité de Directeur général, je dois vous dire ceci : ce budget diminué qui vous est présenté n'est pas en réalité  un budget nominal, car le taux de change prévu ne correspond pas au vrai taux de change, dont la valeur  moyenne actuelle s'établit à 6,15 francs français pour un dollar des Etats-Unis et non à 5,70.
14.47  Permettez-moi de vous exprimer la réelle inquiétude que j'éprouve. Les causes en sont les suivantes :  premièrement, le niveau de 544.367.250 dollars du budget à croissance nominale zéro représente une réduction  réelle de 23,4 millions de dollars par rapport au montant de 567.812.250 dollars requis pour maintenir le pouvoir  d'achat au même niveau que celui de l'exercice en cours. Donc, l'idée que cette croissance nominale zéro  correspond à une sorte de statu quo pour les Etats membres n'est pas exacte. Le programme de l'Organisation s'en  trouvera diminué. Le Conseil, aussi bien que la Conférence générale, doivent en être avertis. J'ai averti le  Conseil, Mesdames et Messieurs, je dois maintenant avertir les représentants, la Conférence générale.
14.48 Deuxièmement, le taux de change de 5,70 francs français pour un dollar des Etats-Unis, qui est en deçà  de la réalité dans la conjoncture actuelle, donne une idée inexacte de ce qui est, en fait, un réel engagement  financier des Etats membres vis-à-vis de l'UNESCO. En effet, si le taux de change n'est pas modifié, au moins  partiellement, si l'on n'arrive pas à un compromis, les contributions des Etats membres au budget de  l'Organisation s'élèveront à 520 millions de dollars au taux actuel et non pas à 544.
14.49 Si, de plus, nous opérons une diminution de 3 % au titre du "lapse factor" - qu'au moins nous pourrions  cesser de prendre en compte, étant donné qu'il complique d'une façon extraordinaire toute la politique du  personnel - nous nous retrouverons avec 10 millions de dollars de moins. Vous aurez donc à verser en fait
510 millions de dollars, et non pas 544. De cette somme, 1l faudra en outre déduire les sommes rétrocédées aux  Etats membres au titre du système d'incitation au paiement rapide des contributions. Bref, l'engagement financier  des Etats membres ne s'élèvera malheureusement pas à 544 millions de dollars, qui serait le montant nominal,  mais à moins de 510 millions de dollars. Je dois, Madame la Présidente, rappeler à cet égard qu'il s'agit là de  questions qu'il faut bien connaître pour pouvoir examiner les compromis possibles.
14.50 De même, Madame la Présidente, je dois dire que l'on mentionne trop souvent la politique du personnel  sans bien connaître toutes les questions la concernant. Or, la politique du personnel de cette Maison ne peut pas  être assimilée à celle des autres organisations du système. Nous sommes chargés de l'éducation, de la science, de  la culture, de la communication, des sciences sociales et humaines, de l'environnement, des océans … Comment,  dans ces conditions, notre structure, par exemple la répartition des tâches entre divers sous-directeurs généraux,  peut-elle être semblable à celle des organisations qui ont un seul domaine d'activité ? Comment peut-on comparer  des situations tellement différentes ? Comment peut-on dire qu'il y a trop de personnel alors que nous avons  réduit notre effectif de plus de 1.000 fonctionnaires, depuis l'année 1982 et que nous avons fait en sorte que la  plus grande partie du personnel soit affectée aux activités de programme. Il est par trop facile de traiter des  questions de personnel sans tenir compte de la complexité des fonctions d'une organisation interculturelle telle  que l'UNESCO, de comparer cette Organisation avec les autres en affirmant qu'elle est peuplée de bureaucrates.  Le personnel de cette Organisation, c'est le moteur de ses activités. Que m'avez-vous demandé vous-mêmes tout
63   au long de ces deux dernières années ? Le plus souvent, vous m'avez demandé de vous présenter des  propositions ; or, pour cela je dois faire appel à des consultants. L'UNESCO est une organisation à vocation  intellectuelle, à la différence d'autres organisations plus techniques. Son rôle n'est pas de fabriquer tel ou tel  produit, mais d'être à l'écoute des Etats membres et de leur donner ce qu'ils demandent. Mesdames et Messieurs,  je le répète, j'ai agi en toute indépendance quelles que soient les pressions.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(14.51) Ladies and gentlemen: I am about to conclude my address. To promote these values and attitudes, the  world needs UNESCO to be a living, dynamic agency, respected for the quality of its initiatives and for the quality  of the services it renders. This means that Member States must apply in full the policy decisions adopted by the  General Conference and that the Secretariat must set an example of professionalism and efficiency.
(14.52) The United Nations system is now, so to speak, in retreat in terms of both the growing influence of the  private sector and the attitude of governments, which often show little readiness to fulfil commitments they have  made in the United Nations context. UNESCO must take this new situation into account and act in consequence.  One of the possible options would be to extend collaboration with private bodies, as UNDP has done with the  NETAID network, like other public institutions at both international and national level.
(14.53) To achieve this, the operation of the networks of our associates and partners must be streamlined and we  must invest in images and symbols, the dynamic principles of our time. We must, above all, fire our citizens with  enthusiasm for peace-building and the practice of solidarity.
(14.54) To foster the kind of change I have outlined in this presentation of the Programme and Budget, UNESCO  must experiment with internal transformation, it must continue the process of internal transformation it has already  begun. I have already said that decentralization has now made it into a polycentric world network, accessible to  many collaborators and closer to the partners and associates with whom it accomplishes its mission.
(14.55) The Draft Programme and Budget submitted to this session of the General Conference - otherwise known  as document 30 C/5 - bears the signs of authentic change in progress. Based on the concepts of results, strategy and  responsibility, it announces a different method of work, a different approach to tasks; from now on we shall not be  restricted by a work plan, but work to ensure success; we shall not simply implement programmes, but demand  results; we shall not extol the virtues of the hierarchy, but integrate senior officials into a coherent system of shared  objectives. Like all radical changes, this one will take some time to be completed, but its wide-ranging effects are  already taking shape. The Secretariat which I am handing over to my successor is, like the rest of the Organization,  a body in the process of energetic renewal, based precisely on the total independence of the intellect. We cannot  proclaim academic freedom, scientific freedom, for others and then fail to observe it here in UNESCO. In 1990,  from Jomtien, where the momentous conference on education for all had just ended, I issued a “green note”, which  was very controversial at the time. Paragraph 12 of the note read: “I have the following advice for all the staff of  this Organization, at all levels: never do anything that goes against your conscience. If you believe that something  is harmful or that an order you have been given is misguided say so, talk about it. Never do anything that is an  imposition; this is not a house of people who are imposed upon or under subjection, this is the house of freedom”.
(14.56) Ladies and gentlemen, no one should be surprised that the Organization as a whole and its component  parts are constantly in the process of change, of renewal. In some instances it could be said to be natural for  intellectual organizations that are the focus of such controversy. It is a normal and necessary process because  UNESCO is a challenge, or rather it is constantly responding to intellectual, environmental, cultural and ethical  challenges. As you know, I proposed to the United Nations that these four issues be considered at the Millennium  Assembly with a view to that great world programme of endogenous development which could change the  direction of many current trends.
(14.57) These challenges combine in a complex interaction to constitute a single political challenge, the solution  of which will require courage, audacity and inspiration. This challenge poses various questions: What shall we do  with the century that is about to begin? What shall we be celebrating on 1 January? How shall we put peace into  practice, every day in our daily lives? I should like at this point to pay tribute to President Khatami of Iran, who has  proposed to the United Nations that 2001, as a follow-up to the International Year for the Culture of Peace, should  be declared the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. I am pleased to say that this proposal has  been accepted. Afterwards will come the decade proposed by the winners of the Nobel Peace Prize, the decade of  education for peace and non-violence. This is our programme, these are our policy decisions.
(14.58) Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you great success in the discussions which you begin today. I hope that you  will be able to improve on the proposals you have received both from the Director-General and from the Executive  Board. May good will and wisdom inspire your decisions. Thank you very much.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Mr Director-General, I thank you for your extensive, detailed and enlightened presentation. You are  indeed a tower of strength and inspiration, whom all of us appreciate, and you have led us beautifully up to the  general policy debate that will take UNESCO not only into the next century but also of course into the next  millennium. Thank you again.
65   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXK/IEHHE BOITPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)  Fold) old dédie  BR
16.1 The PRESIDENT:  Before I invite the first speaker to address the meeting, I wish to inform you that I attach great  importance, as I am sure you all do, to the punctual start of our meetings, and I will do everything I can to keep to  the schedule so that we can complete our work in the time that is available to us. The speaker has eight minutes in  which to address the plenary, as we agreed upon and as was the case at the last session of the General  Conference, and I beg the speakers to keep within the time limit allotted to them. I thank everyone in advance  who abides by this rule and thank you all for your understanding.
16.2 Now may I invite the first speaker of this morning, Dr Carlos Enrique Zea Flores, Vice-Minister for  Culture and Sports of Guatemala.
(17.1) Mr ZEA FLORES (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, Ministers and Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by extending my good wishes and  congratulations to the President of the General Conference on your well-deserved election, and my gratitude to  Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, whose successful term of office at the head of UNESCO will soon be coming to an  end. He leaves an indelible impression behind him and has traced out a path for the leading world body in  education, science and culture to follow. I am sure that Mr Mayor has every reason to feel satisfied with his  achievements and to regard himself quite rightly as a citizen of the world.
(17.2) We are particularly grateful for the opening of the UNESCO Office in Guatemala and for the support we  have received under the Participation Programme which, in addition to advancing the process of decentralization,  has contributed to the development of extrabudgetary projects that help to consolidate the peace accords reached in  my country.
(17.3) With the signature of firm and lasting peace on 29 December 1996, Guatemala launched a process of  peace-building which laid the foundations for a culture of peace and genuine participatory democracy. One of the  pillars of this social edifice is the blueprint for educational reform drawn up by a joint team in which all the  peoples, sectors, organizations and institutions that make up our society played an important part. This blueprint is  designed as a comprehensive national project that effectively responds to the characteristics and needs of a multi-  ethnic, multicultural and multilingual country.
(17.4) The main lines of the blueprint for educational reform are: a life guided by democracy and the culture of  peace, unity in diversity, overall sustainable development, and science and technology. Education policy covers  such areas as social mobilization for educational reform, the renewal of curricula, human resources, equity,  multiculturalism, modernization and financing.
(17.5) At the present time, the Consultative Commission for Educational Reform, attached to the Ministry of  Education and composed of representatives of the government and civil society, is making every effort to put the  blueprint into practice and as a result of its activities we hope that a National Education Plan for the next 20 years  will emerge in the near future.
(17.6) The Ministry of Education has made a great effort to improve educational conditions in the country and  to this end is carrying out a series of activities designed to expand enrolment to a significant extent, improve the  quality of education, modernize institutions, increase community involvement, extend out-of-school education and  literacy work and step up national and international cooperation. A promising programme of civics and values  education has been carried out to instil the principles of democracy and citizen participation so that present and  future generations will be able to put them into practice. An effort has been made to develop bilingual intercultural  education, which now covers larger areas and a wider range of languages, thereby helping to create a nation in  which the cultures and languages of others are valued and respected. In 1999, the National Self-Management  Programme for Educational Development (PRONADE) succeeded in extending school enrolment in the first three  years of primary education to 250,000 children in 3,400 communities.
(17.7) In 1998 public investment in the education sector reached the goal of 2.2% of GDP as proposed in the  Peace Accords. Illiteracy fell by 7.1%, from 38.8% in 1994 to 31.7% in 1998, and we have every reason to foresee  a significant reduction in the next few years. There has also been greater female participation in the educational  process thanks to a programme of scholarships for girls in rural areas, which is helping to close the gap between  boys and girls in access to education and completion of schooling. The results of progress in education, as in other  areas of overall national development, are plain to see.
(17.8) Just as education is acknowledged to be fundamental to the overall sustainable development of peoples,  we also need to recognize that, for a country like Guatemala, this is equally true of the study, promotion and  strengthening of its cultures, which underpin our cultural and national identity and which, as pointed out by  Mr Enrique Iglesias, President of the Inter-American Development Bank, at the Summit of Ministers of Culture of  Latin America and the Caribbean, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1998, have to be like a leafy tree with deep roots in  order to withstand the onslaught of the globalization process.
(17.9) This is why the Government of Guatemala, through the Ministry of Culture, has been making  indefatigable efforts to ensure that Guatemalans themselves know and appreciate our national cultures and make  use of our cultural and natural heritage in a sensible and rational way for purposes of sustainable development.
(17.10) Madam President, your Excellencies, fellow delegates, Guatemala has the enormous comparative  advantage of providing a home on a territory of no more than 109,000 square kilometres for at least
23 linguistically distinct cultures, which are the main asset of a multicoloured country, the heart and centre of the  Maya culture that we share with our neighbours Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and Belize. In other words,  Guatemala offers the spectacle, in all its magnificence, of cities and monuments of the indigenous pre-Columbian  cultures and the baroque and renaissance splendours of the colonial and national independence period, together  with living and authentic indigenous cultures which take pride in their past and their present, the whole set in a  superb natural environment which we are determined to preserve in its rich biodiversity.
(17.11) Like many developing countries, Guatemala has seen its cultural heritage depleted over the years, stolen  by unscrupulous dealers to be sold to equally unscrupulous and unethical collectors and museums, who acquire  objects for exhibition without deigning to acknowledge that by so doing they are encouraging and financing this  looting. As a result, our people are deprived of the knowledge of their past that they need in order to make sense of  their present and secure their future. Ripping from their context these objects that embody the world view and  religious beliefs, the science and technology and, ultimately, the defining features of vanished societies is like  stealing pages from the annals of our history and then claiming to read and interpret it. As Mr Federico Mayor put  it so well yesterday in his address of welcome to the President of Venezuela: “Wealth buys everything that has a  price, but usually knows nothing of its value”.
(17.12) We have therefore launched a complicated and costly crusade to reclaim and recover the cultural property  that has been stolen and illegally exported from Guatemala. In many cases we have succeeded and in others we are  continuing our efforts. Our aim is not just to bring our cultural property back, but to cut off the sources of financing  for such thefts and hence to halt the loss of the historical context of our cultures. A Maya dish or vase, for example,  exhibited in one of those museums that buy or receive donations of stolen property, or displayed on the shelves of a  collector, is evidence of the partial or total destruction of a Maya temple to get to the burial chamber which housed
(17.13) Madam President, your Excellencies, fellow delegates, I wish to make an urgent appeal to the conscience  of those countries that have not yet signed the UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing  the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property to sign and ratify it and, in addition, to  conclude bilateral or multilateral agreements for this purpose with countries which, like my own, are under  constant threat, since by so doing they would not only help to reinforce the identity of our peoples, but would  contribute to their sustainable development; such action may be regarded as a genuine and respectful gesture of  international cooperation. The fact is that, by protecting our historic sites and monuments, we can make rational  use of them for overall development purposes, thereby ensuring increased economic revenues which, combined  with other efforts in the field of education, health care and infrastructure, will contribute to our efforts to combat  poverty and marginalization in a large sector of our society which is rightly and urgently demanding a better quality  of life for its members and their descendants.
(17.14) I wish to acknowledge and welcome the valuable support provided by UNESCO and its various bodies in  this field, and also, on behalf of the Government and people of Guatemala, to express my appreciation for the  tributes that have been and are to be paid to our Nobel prizewinner for literature, Miguel Angel Asturias, upon the  centenary of his birth.
(17.15) Madam President, your Excellencies, fellow delegates, in conclusion, I feel certain that the work of this  General Conference and its commissions will be crowned with success and I look forward to a prosperous future  for UNESCO and its Members. My thanks for your kind attention.
18. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank most sincerely Dr Carlos Enrique Zea Flores for sharing with us his successes in  education and his worries in other fields. It is always good to hear about a far-away country. I now have the  pleasure and honour of calling His Excellency Mr Fernando Robleto Lang, Minister for Education, Culture and  Sports of Nicaragua.
(19.1) Mr ROBLETO LANG (Nicaragua) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished Ministers and Heads of Delegation, friends, the culture of peace, passionately and rationally  advocated by UNESCO, is also the culture of life.
(19.2) Nicaragua, which loves peace because it has known and suffered violence and death, attaches particular  importance to this initiative, this logical undertaking, this hallmark that the Director-General has imprinted on his  administration and that the Member States of UNESCO have accepted and supported with enthusiasm and hope.
(19.3) There can be no doubt that the culture of peace has left a special mark on the mission of UNESCO. The  effort and commitment that you have devoted to the culture of peace, Mr Director-General, have not been in vain.
70   My country is particularly attached to peace, which we have genuinely taken to heart. For us it is a challenge and  an aspiration, a way of being and living, an attitude that we resolutely assume and uphold in our everyday lives.
(19.4) As a result of the misguided economic systems and ideologies of the wasted decade of the 1980s,  Nicaragua became deeply indebted and impoverished; accordingly, we have introduced a responsible economic and  social policy in order to take advantage of the cancellation of our heavy inherited debt through the Heavily  Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, for which we have requested the support of all nations.
(19.5) Following its recent return to democratic life, Nicaragua has learned to focus its priorities: education  comes high on our agenda and in the State budget. We realize that it is only through education that we can  eliminate the hateful gap between rich and poor.
(19.6) For this reason, the struggle against illiteracy, the marked expansion and higher quality of educational  provision for the less privileged sectors of the population, continuing adult education, the promotion of human,  ethical and moral values, genuine educational decentralization and the involvement of civil society, higher status  for long-suffering teachers - our apostles of education - an ongoing effort to prevent drop-out, the promotion of  pre-school and special education, curriculum reform and adaptation, the protection of the environment, the  recognition of indigenous peoples and their rights, and a sustained effort to rehabilitate and promote our rich  national identity are all part of our daily work and bear witness to our efforts.
(19.7) These are the tasks that were left undone for many long years in our much-loved country. If they are our  chief concern and priority today, it is quite simply because education is our only hope.
(19.8) We greatly appreciate UNESCO’s work for its broad scope, its impact and its outstanding importance.  We must all participate and be involved.
(19.9) We also believe that the proposed programme for 2000-2001, the final stage in the Medrum-Term  Strategy, should be a continuation of what went before. We support the view that during this biennium an effort  should be made to consolidate the gains of decentralization and the Participation Programme, while ensuring that  the culture of peace pervades and guides all our actions.
(19.10) In this way document 30 C/5 will gather the strength to go more deeply into problems, that is, to go to  their very heart, by focusing imaginatively on ever-topical concerns such as tackling the root causes of violence,  exclusion and conflict, with education as the basic thrust, measures to protect the heritage and restore a common  identity, action to preserve the environment, emphasis on priority groups and imaginative responses to the  challenge posed by young people, among many other issues.
(19.11) The year 2000 will be the International Year for the Culture of Peace. This is a wise decision — no other  will do — if we are to usher in a new millennium based on hope. All peoples must work together to eliminate  poverty and achieve lasting peace. The culture of peace must become an integral part of our own cultures, part of  our way of viewing the world and our way of being. UNESCO must continue with renewed enthusiasm to show the  way and make its contribution to the building of more just societies and a new, secure and peaceful world.
(19.12) Nicaragua is ready and willing to play its part. Together, if we so wish, we can achieve this goal.  Humanity deserves a better future. Thank you.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank most sincerely the Minister for Education, Culture and Sports of Nicaragua. Your  Excellency, I know the difficulties your country is facing, I know you need assistance. I had the privilege of  visiting your country, and we do understand the challenges before you. Thank you again. Now, I should like to  call as the next speaker Ms Suvi Linden, Minister for Culture of Finland.
21.1 Ms LINDEN (Finland):  Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, on behalf of the European Union, I should first of all like to congratulate you, Ms Moserov4 on your  election as President of the 30th session of the General Conference.
21.2 This session of the General Conference marks a turning point in the history of the Organization as we  are going into a new millennium and as we shall — at the same time — elect a new Director-General for UNESCO.  These factors constitute together a great challenge. We wish to take every advantage of them, but we should also  all of us accept the responsibility involved in shaping the future of UNESCO. The question of what the main  tasks of the Organization should be and how it should be managed does not depend only on the Director-General  but on all of us — the Member States of UNESCO. The European Union Member States of UNESCO are ready to  face this challenge and to contribute to the reform and development of UNESCO. They attach great importance
71   to the work already launched in the Task Force on UNESCO in the Twenty-First Century which has been  appointed by the Executive Board.
21.3 The European Union Member States would like to express their gratitude to you, Mr Mayor, for your  tireless efforts to regain the universality of the Organization. We also pay tribute to your defence of democracy  and human rights as well as to your work for freedom of expression and for free media, for respect for cultural  diversity as an important element of development, for the fight against poverty and for increased cooperation  with civil society.
214 During the last few years there have been positive developments in many fields which should be  recognized by all of us. I should, in particular, like to mention the following fields: the ethics of science, lifelong  education and education for all, as well as the promotion of peace in the minds of men through education, with  specific emphasis on human rights education.
21.5 The European Union believes that UNESCO has a specific role to play in working towards solving  problems which have a global dimension. The Organization can do so by playing a major role in its core areas of  competence — education, science, culture and communication — and by concentrating on the most important and  urgent priorities in each of these fields.
21.6 In order to achieve this objective, the management and structure of UNESCO should be streamlined and  geared to the major programme priorities, and the use of the funds available to the Organization should be  focused on these programmes and be used in a more efficient way. It is only in this way that UNESCO can  strengthen its credibility and efficiency.
21.7 At the same time there should be a clear understanding concerning the tasks of UNESCO in relation to  those of the other organizations of the United Nations system. The tasks of UNESCO should be based on its  constitutional mandate.
21.8 UNESCO should also take advantage of and improve its cooperation in the field with other United  Nations organizations. This is one of the ways in which it is possible to achieve a significant reduction in the  number of field offices and other structures in the field.
21.9 In the course of the process which I have just outlined, the form, purpose and usefulness of the Medium-  Term Strategy should be reviewed.
21.10 The reform of UNESCO requires also that we continue to improve and develop the working methods of  the General Conference and the Executive Board. We should also look into the mandate and working methods of  consultative bodies — the intergovernmental committees and councils which have been set up for various  purposes.
21.11 UNESCO’s work should continue to be based on cooperation with civil society, for which the National  Commissions for UNESCO constitute a prime channel.
21.12 We look forward to working closely with the incoming Director-General. We support an ambitious  agenda to reform the Organization. We believe that UNESCO must give top priority to helping to achieve the  international development targets agreed at global conferences over the last decade, most particularly the  commitment to ensure that all children will have quality basic education and the elimination of gender inequality  in access to education. We want UNESCO to step up its action in these areas and we would like in particular to  work closely with the incoming Director-General on these issues.
21.13 It will be important to set out specific milestones against which we can measure progress in making  UNESCO more efficient and better focused on the key issues. It will be important to make some early gains.
21.14 Madam President, on behalf of Finland, we shall be happy to present more detailed comments in the  programme commissions and look forward to the debate on UNESCO in the twenty-first century under item 4.1.  Thank you, Madam President
22.1 The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Her Excellency, the Minister of Culture for Finland. Finland has always been a  very active member of our Organization, with many good ideas. I now have the pleasure and honour of calling on  the next speaker, from a country which is not far geographically from the previous speaker’s, and that is Her  Excellency Ms Margrethe Vestager, the Minister for Education of Denmark.
23.1 Ms VESTAGER (Denmark):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, like my Finnish colleague, to congratulate you, Madam  Moserovâ, on your election to the high office of President of this session of the General Conference.
23.2 Please allow me to introduce the Danish intervention at this General Conference by drawing attention to  a fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. There once was a merchant who was rich and so clever that every  shilling he put out brought him a crown. His son inherited his wealth, and lived a merry life. At last he had  nothing left but a pair of slippers and an old trunk which could fly. In short the merchant’s son seated himself in  the trunk, turned the lock, and flew into a princess’ room. To impress the princess, he filled the trunk with  fireworks, and lit a sparkling fire. But unluckily, a spark from the fireworks burnt the trunk into ashes. Having no  trunk, the merchant’s son could not go to meet his bride, and she is still waiting for him.
23.3 This fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen is called The Flying Trunk. It has made me reflect on what  we, together, put in UNESCO’s trunk. We must consider this in the future just as carefully as we have done in the  past. It is evident to me that UNESCO is a question of education, a question of science, a question of culture and  communication. But first and foremost, I see UNESCO as a question of meeting of cultures and education plays a  crucial role in this respect. In order to continuously sustain and develop our democracy and our welfare, we must  base education on two pillars: values and vision. Values, because education helps to strengthen the basic values  in society, and because education builds on values. And vision, because education supports our vision of the  future of the world.
23.4 The top priority is the provision of basic education for all children, as well as literacy and basic skills  training for young people and adults. As Denmark has stated many times before, it is essential — especially in the  field of education — to make a proactive effort to help girls and women in the developing countries, particularly  in Africa.
23.5 Madam President, as far as science is concerned, we are now looking forward to seeing how UNESCO  and its Member States choose to apply the elements they put in the trunk during the World Conference on  Science, held in Budapest in June. Critical and free thinking, global access to and global sharing of knowledge  and the ethics of science are what Denmark would take out of the trunk and place at the centre of our follow-up  to the Budapest Conference.
23.6 The protection of cultural rights of minorities and indigenous peoples is a major issue for Denmark  which, as you might know, also includes the indigenous people of Greenland, the Inuit. Therefore, I attach great  importance to the fact that the Home Rule Government of Greenland is represented in my government’s  delegation to this session of the General Conference.
23.7 On the issue of communication, Denmark would like to see an even stronger promotion of the free flow  of ideas and global access to information. As put forward by the Youth Parliament yesterday, UNESCO has a  very important role in helping to create for future generations a global ethic. The citizen of the next century is  both a citizen in a local community and a global community. Therefore, the key words are free global  communication.
23.8 In 1996, the Danish Government concluded a four-year rolling framework agreement on extrabudgetary  funds for UNESCO programmes and projects. This has made Denmark one of the major donors in terms of  extrabudgetary contributions to UNESCO. I am pleased to say that there has been general satisfaction with this  agreement, which the parties will renew. But UNESCO must use its resources wisely — like the old merchant in  the fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, who got a crown for every shilling he put out.
23.9 This brings me to the Programme and Budget for the years 2000-2001. Denmark believes that results-  based programming could facilitate more transparency and more accountability. Denmark supports the budget  level of US $544 million within option A. But this does not imply that Denmark subscribes to option A in all  detail. Some items in option B have to be taken into account and offset by corresponding savings in option A.  However, Denmark finds it inappropriate to increase the nominal level of the budget whilst there still remains  considerable scope to improve efficiency and to enhance the output of the Organization. We want to underscore  that more cohesion between the regular programme and budget and the extrabudgetary resources should be  ensured in order to generate more consistency and more synergy in the activities of the whole Organization as     The speaker provided the Secretariat with additional written comments to the points raised in her oral statement  which, with the authorization of the President, are reproduced in full in annex to this verbatim record.
73   such. UNESCO should not duplicate work which is being done by other United Nations organizations; UNESCO  must not use its resources on activities which do not correspond to its core mandate; and UNESCO must not  allow the programmes to be spread over too many activities. In the future, we wish to find in UNESCQO’s trunk a  selected number of highly visible initiatives that make a difference in the world and which build on UNESCO’s  values and visions. Denmark wishes to recall UNESCO as a meeting of cultures, true to its core mandate as an  intellectual agency.
23.10 Itis of crucial importance to Denmark that the new Director-General can deal with the managerial issues  of the Organization. There must be more proper programmes, more measurable objectives, and more  accountability and transparency — as well of course as proper evaluation of the programmes. Recently, we have  read articles in the international press which were highly critical of UNESCO. When allegations like that are  made, UNESCO should be able to respond.
23.11 Madam President, at the threshold of a new millennium it is clear that we need UNESCO more than ever  as a meeting place for cultures. Therefore, the Danish Government is looking forward to cooperation with a  UNESCO that is still in the process of development, a UNESCO that is prepared to meet the challenges of a new  millennium.
23.12 Mr Federico Mayor, I want to address directly to you my gratitude for your personal enthusiasm and  determined efforts to bring UNESCO into the focus of attention and to generate a dynamic commitment to its  work. I think that you have truly succeeded in making UNESCO more visible in the world.
23.13 Madam President, in my speech I have underlined what I hope to find in the future: a trunk of UNESCO  full of values and vision, action and efficiency and not, for instance, duplicated work or programmes spread over  too many activities. In that case we could say, in Hans Christian Andersen’s own words: “It is a very wonderful  trunk. No sooner do we press on the lock than the trunk can fly!”. Thank you, Madam President.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, I should like to thank you for your excellent presentation. Not only did you keep  within the time limit, but you showed a very deep and true understanding of the Organization, which is deeply  appreciated. Your presentation has brought our morning’s deliberations to a close. I thank you all for attending  and we shall meet again at 3 p.m. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée a 13 h.10  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.10