Quinzième séance plénière
5 novembre 1999 à 10 h.25  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Fifteenth plenary meeting
5 November 1999 at 10.25 am.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Decimoquinta sesiôn plenaria
1 IsTHauaToe MICHAPHOE 3acegaHHe
509   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE SUR LE POINT 1.3 : RAPPORT DU DIRECTEUR  GENERAL SUR LES COMMUNICATIONS RECUES DES ETATS MEMBRES INVOQUANT  LES DISPOSITIONS DE L’ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPHE 8 (c), DE L’ACTE CONSTITUTIF  REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON ITEM 1.3: REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-  GENERAL ON COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED FROM MEMBER STATES INVOKING THE  PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPH 8(C), OF THE CONSTITUTION  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA SOBRE EL PUNTO 1.3: INFORME DEL DIRECTOR  GENERAL SOBRE LAS COMUNICACIONES RECIBIDAS DE LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS EN LAS QUE  SE INVOCA LO DISPUESTO EN EL ARTICULO IV.C, PARRAFO 8 APARTADO C) DE LA  CONSTITUCION  JJOKJIA/| KOMHCCHH TO A/[MHHHCTPATHBHBIM BOIPOCAM TO MYHKTY 1.3: JJOKJIA/I  TEHEPAJIBHOTO IHPEKTOPA O COOBIIEHHSIX, TIOJIVUEHHBIX OT FOCY/IAPCTB-YJIEHOB  B CB513H C THOJOXEHHSIMH ITYHKTA 8 (C) CTATBH IV.C YCTABA  pi J Less suis lg liad) J gall oo 891380 Jol Ji ce pl all prj 0,0 idl Ge ZI) AVI oi  onto BI SEA ce (pu) dal JF SOUS ce (=) À § id  TBERRRTHHEL MME: RTFFERT REE] (ARE) FIV. CR HE CO) BREARR PE M  TL
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for being late; this is because we have just  had a very important meeting of the General Committee. Before opening the meeting, I should like to thank the  technicians who have made sure that we can hold this plenary meeting. I do appreciate this. I now declare the  fifteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference open.
1.2 I now give the floor to the Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, who shall present on  behalf of the Chairperson the Commission’s report on communications received from Member States invoking  the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution. Mr Koch, you have the floor.
2.1 Mr KOCH (Germany), Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As required under Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the Administrative Commission took up this matter at the commencement of its work. It  noted, however, that communications requesting voting rights were still being received by the Secretariat and  decided that the deadline for acceptance of such communications should be 2 November 1999. In this respect, it  was noted that all Member States that had submitted communications by that time could continue to vote until  such time as the Conference in plenary meeting might decide otherwise on the basis of the report of the  Administrative Commission.
2.2 At the beginning of the 30th session of the General Conference, there were 41 Member States with  arrears in excess of the amounts allowed under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference. One had since paid the amount required to obtain voting rights. By the deadline of 2 November
1999, 35 communications had been submitted to request exceptions to the voting rights provisions as stipulated  in the Constitution and/or the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. Before the Administrative  Commission had finished its work on these Member States, one of them, namely Croatia, had paid the amount  required to obtain voting rights and its communication was therefore considered to be withdrawn, reducing the  number of communications to be examined by the Administrative Commission in detail to 34.
2.3 On the other hand, five Member States in arrears in excess of the amounts allowed have not yet  submitted communications requesting voting rights. Therefore, these Member States, whose names I will now  read out, have no right to vote: Vanuatu, Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, and Sao Tome and  Principe.
2.4 In respect of this examination exercise concerning communications received, the Administrative  Commission decided to set up a working group to conduct a detailed case-by-case study and make suggestions  and recommendations to the Commission for consideration. The working group consisted of Djibouti, Germany,  Islamic Republic of Iran, Mexico, Russian Federation and United Arab Emirates. The group met on 28 and
29 October and on 2 and 3 November 1999.
2.5 Now, within the framework of the provisions as stipulated in the Constitution and the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the working group has tried to review as positively as possible the requests  received from Member States and to that effect, the Member States concerned were involved in the decision-  making process and, as appropriate, were invited to provide additional information. Following its deliberations,
510   the Working Group reported to the Administrative Commission that there were 27 of the 34 cases where, in its  opinion, valid exceptions could be made to the relevant provisions on voting rights, whereas there were seven  cases where it could not recommend such exceptions on the basis of information provided by Member States.
2.6 I would like to read out the names of the Member States that, in the opinion of the Administrative  Commission, should be granted the right to vote on the basis of the communications received from them. Those  countries are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica,  Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Gambia, Georgia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq,  Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Republic of Moldova, Rwanda, Solomon Islands, Sudan, Turkmenistan  and Ukraine. Those are the 27 States.
2.7 Now, I referred to the other group of States that the Administrative Commission did not see fit to  recommend as being eligible for the right to vote, because of the information that had been received by the end of  the examination of these matters in the working group. Those seven States are: Central African Republic,  Grenada, Sierra Leone, Tajikistan, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia and Kyrgyzstan.
2.8 Madam, this is the list of countries which we as the Administrative Commission are presenting. I am of  course prepared to give additional information, and I would also like to invite you, Madam, as you will probably  wish to do, to ask the Comptroller to inform the Conference about any further information received by the  Secretariat on this very important matter. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I have a question. You read out a whole list of countries to which we can decide to give voting rights  without making a distinction as to whether our vote should be by a two-thirds majority or a simple majority. Was  that intentional?
4, Mr KOCH (Germany), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you very much, Madam. Yes, you are right. There is a legal distinction to be made between those  requiring a simple majority and others requiring a two-thirds majority. If we are to take a decision, my  understanding was that this would be done by consensus, but if we were to vote we would have to break down the
27 countries into two groups, one being subject to a simple majority and the other to a two-thirds majority.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I have the countries concerned listed. Are there any comments from the plenary? I see  the Comptroller wishes to speak. Sir, you have the floor.
6. The COMPTROLLER:  Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Subsequent to the meeting of the Working Group, which  finished in the evening of 2 November, there have been two communications in addition to the requests for  voting rights from certain Member States submitted within the time frame. These two Member States, Grenada  and Kyrgyzstan have now presented payment plans. So, Madam President, you may wish to invite these two  Member States to speak at this meeting. Thank you, Madam.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, are those Members present and do they wish to speak? I give the floor to Grenada.
8.1 Ms HADDAD (Grenada):  Thank you Madam President, distinguished delegates, Excellencies. First of all, T would like to ask you  to excuse us for bringing up this matter in the plenary, but we were informed only yesterday that the Working  Group on voting rights of the Administrative Commission did not recommend that an exception could be made to  grant voting rights to Grenada. The Working Group considered that the communication sent on 6 October by the  Government of Grenada did not reschedule their payments and that no proposals or information had been  provided concerning its intention to pay its contributions. But no further information had been asked of the  Grenadian delegation, which had been very surprised when informed of the decision of the Working Group. In a  letter dated 6 October, the Government of Grenada had advised that the continued existence of arrears had been  due, I quote, “to severe budgeting constraints occasioned by difficult economic circumstances”. The Government  of Grenada also advised that it is giving active consideration to the settling of these arrears and is preparing a  schedule of payments with a view to ensuring that all arrears are settled in the shortest possible time frame. The  Bureau of the Comptroller has today received a letter setting out this schedule, which has been approved by the  government in order to settle arrears of $180,895. It is proposed to make a first payment of $35,000 prior to
31 May 2000. Five other payments of $31,000 per year in addition to the annual contribution for each year would  then be made. Last night I received a telephone call confirming that the Government of Grenada will be able to
15   make its first payment before the end of 1999, and I hope that we shall be able to confirm this very soon in a  letter to the Comptroller.
8.2 Madam President, Grenada is a small and young country facing serious economic difficulties.  Independent in 1974, Grenada became a Member of UNESCO in February 1975. In its desire to participate fully  in the work of the Organization, the Government of Grenada decided to establish a permanent delegation to  UNESCO in Paris and the Ambassador presented his credentials only in November 1998, less than one year ago.  Since then, the delegation of Grenada has been trying, despite the limited number of its members, to participate  in all major events and activities of UNESCO. In this way, the Government of Grenada wishes to confirm its  commitment to the purposes and objectives of UNESCO and hopes that, on the basis of the payments plan  presented today, the General Conference will grant it the right to vote. Thank you, Madam President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Koch.
10. Mr KOCH (Germany), Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Madam, let me just say the following. I happen also to have chaired the Working Group, you know,  although I am reporting now on behalf of the Administrative Commission. If in the Working Group we had had  the information that we have just heard from the representative of Grenada, I would submit that the Working  Group would of course have recommended that Grenada should be granted the right to vote. With reference to  your earlier remark, such a decision, were a vote to be taken, would be on the basis of a two-thirds majority. This  is the information I am able to convey to you.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Does this mean that we can reconsider this and immediately give Grenada the right to vote? Could you  make that clear, please.
12. Mr KOCH (Germany), Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Yes Madam. As you ask me, I would like to propose that, on the basis of our experience in the  Administrative Commission and the procedures we follow, we add Grenada to the group of countries that would  be granted voting rights, which would increase their number from 27 to 28. Thank you.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. That is a good decision. Does Kyrgyzstan want to take the floor? Yes. I give the floor to  Kyrgyzstan.
14. I'-a TOKTOMBIIIEB (Kbrprer3cTaH):  ['myGokoyBaskaeMasi r-Xxa IpercCeraTerb, yBAXKaeMbIH Ipe3HIHyM, YBa)KaeMble JaMbl H TOCIOJA, OT  HMeHH TIpaBUTeIbCTBA KbIprei3ckoit PecnyOnmku Hama generar yOeanTenbHo TPOCcHT Bac cerogna  MOZVIEPKaTb HAC H He JumaTh rojgoca Keipreicrana Ha 30-H ceccuu l'enepanbHoñ kondepeHmmn FOHECKO.  MeI O4eHb TecHO COTpyHHYaem ¢ FOHECKO, y Hac coBMecTHO C 9T0H asTopnreTHeñämreh Opraxnsaunen  BEJETCA OYEHb OOJbINas NHpoKOMacmTaÔHa4 paboTa. Mel o0emtaem HayYaTb IHKBHAANHIO CBOETO JOJTA B  TIEPBOM KBapTaire 2000 roma. V Hac ecTb rapaHTHHHOE IIHCBMO C KOHKPETHBIM CPOKOM, T.€. TUTAHOM TOTAIIEHHA  BCEH 3A/10172K€HHOCTH B TEUYEHHE 6 JET, NOAIHCAHHBIM IMPEMbBEPp-MHHHCTPOM KebIprebi3ckoñ PecrnyOnmxn. IIpocum  Bac, yBakaeMble eneraTbI | eHepanbHOW KoxndepeHLmH, MONIEPKATL HAC H OTHECTHCb C IOHHMAHHEM K  CHTYaLIHH, CIIOXHBIIEHCA B KbIprbI3CTaHE, KOTOPbIN TONYYHI CYBEPEHUTET TIPU MOIHOM PA3BAIe 3KOHOMHKH,  OTATOINEHHOH BOOPYXX€HHbIM KOHM®IHKTOM Ha fore PecnyOnmku. bnaromapro Bac 3a monmmanme H 3a  mnomiepxKKy. Cracnbo.
(14) Mr TOKTOMYSHEV (Kyrgyzstan) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, members of the General Committee, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, our delegation earnestly appeals to you to support us today and not to deprive  Kyrgyzstan of a voice at the 30th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. We cooperate very closely with  UNESCO and, in partnership with this most authoritative Organization, very considerable work is going on in our  country on a large scale. We promise to begin paying off our arrears in the first quarter of the year 2000. We have a  letter of guarantee with a fixed term, i.e. a plan to pay off all our debts over a period of six years, signed by the  Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic. We request you, honourable delegates to the General Conference, to  support us and to show understanding concerning the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which acceded to sovereignty at a  time when the economy had completely collapsed, overburdened by the armed conflict in the south of the  Republic. Thank you for your understanding and support. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, but I have to ask Mr Koch for his view. I believe the letter was submitted very shortly after  the deadline, so we might be able to consider it, Sir.
16. Mr KOCH (Germany), Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you very much, Madam. Yes, to give you the answer before attempting an explanation, I would  indeed recommend that we include Kyrgyzstan in the group of countries that should be granted the right to vote,  on the basis of this latest information, which we did not have at the time we discussed the matter. We discussed  the situation with the representatives of Kyrgyzstan but they were unable to give us such detailed information and  promises, and that is why the problem arose. But on the basis of what we now hear and see, I would, as in the  case of Grenada, propose that we put Kyrgyzstan into the group of countries which should be granted the right to  vote. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:  It is with pleasure I shall include Kyrgyzstan in that particular group. I understand that Turkey is asking  for the floor. Sir, it is yours.
18. Mr Goker (Turkey):  Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to add the view of Turkey, that Kyrgystan became a fully-  fledged member of the international community from the very day of its independence and attaches great  importance to this. We greatly appreciate their presence and if for many economic reasons they have had  difficulty in complying with formalities, it should not be overlooked that they are part of this august  Organization, and have made far greater contributions than some countries that have been with the Organization  since the 1940s. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, thank you for your support of the Kyrgyz people. Italy is asking for the floor.
20. Mr SARDO (Italy):  Thank you Madam President. The Italian delegation does not wish to express its views on either the case  of Grenada or the case of Kyrgyzstan which, anyway, we support. We would like to draw the President’s  attention, and indeed the General Conference’s attention to the fact that this is not, for many reasons, an ordinary  meeting of this body. We are living in a very sensitive, very important transitional phase in the life of this  Organization. It would not add, we believe, to the dignity and vision of this Organization if we were to discuss  this matter further, not because we do not pay all due respect to rules of procedure and financial regulations but  because we feel that at this time all the remaining five Member States should be granted the right to vote if we  consider that, at this stage, their voice is just as necessary to a consensus as anybody else’s voice. Therefore, I  strongly urge you, Madam President, to suggest that the General Conference should reach a consensus, a special  consensus, by acclamation on this item. Thank you.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, I shall have to consult with Mr Koch on this, because we must adhere to our rules. We cannot totally  disregard rules that we have agreed upon. I can understand your sentiments and I think that, from the way the  discussion has gone, we could easily start voting if it were not for your proposal. I understand it was a formal  proposal. Mr Koch has the floor.
22. Mr KOCH (Germany), Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Madam. Like you, I do of course understand the idea behind the suggestion made by the  representative of Italy. But again, like you, Madam, I would also draw attention to the fact that each and every  community lives on the basis of rules and regulations. I might also remind you that at the last session of the  General Conference, a group on this particular item was established, the so-called “Portella group”, as you may  remember. There were people who worked very hard to find a procedure acceptable to this community which is  UNESCO, and I would really voice caution about going in the direction just proposed by the representative of  Italy, because to do away with the rules and with the Constitution is a dangerous development, even though, as I  said, I can understand the feeling behind it. But it would also, as I see it, discriminate in a way against those  countries that have made an effort, on the basis of the Director-General’s appeals, to honour their obligations and  try to help us and go through with the payment plans exercise. I would, as I said, be very, very reluctant to go  along with this idea, Madam. Thank you very much.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, I share your opinion. We did after all accept these rules. I shall put your proposal to the vote. Do  you want have a vote on this?
24. Mr SARDO (Italy):  No, I do not insist on having a vote. I believe it was in the spirit of my suggestion to proceed straight to  a consensus. However, let me say once more that I do believe that rules can sometimes be suspended out of  broader considerations. In this case, I think it would not be a matter of financial recklessness but an act of  wisdom. Thank you.
25.1 The PRESIDENT:  I propose to proceed according to the rules and in an orderly fashion. This means that we have three  decisions to take, and the third will be the one which we might consider in the light of the Italian proposal.
25.2 The first decision concerns the 12 States that submitted requests in conformity with Rule 86 of the Rules  of Procedure, and these States are: Burundi, Costa Rica, Guinea-Bissau, Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan,  Latvia, Liberia, Mali, Rwanda, Solomon Islands, Turkmenistan and Ukraine. A simple majority suffices for these  countries to have voting rights. I think this is a simple matter which does not call for a vote. As I see no  objection, it is agreed by consensus that these countries shall be granted voting rights.
25.3 Then there is a second group for which a two-thirds majority is required. The countries concerned are  Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Gambia,  Georgia, Guinea, Iraq, Niger, Republic of Moldova, Sudan ... and Grenada and Kyrgyzstan. I see no objection  and shall therefore take it that it is agreed by consensus that these countries shall be accorded voting rights.
25.4 Finally, we have the case of five Member States in respect of which the Administrative Commission  considered that their requests did not comply with the provisions of Rule 86 and which consequently may not  take part in the voting. These are: Central African Republic, Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Somalia and  Tajikistan. Italy raised an objection. Is there anyone in favour of the objection raised by Italy to the decision of  the Administrative Commission not to grant these countries voting rights according to our rules and regulations?  Now, who is in favour of our endorsing the decision of the Administrative Commission that these countries,  unless there are any new developments within the next few days, should not be granted voting rights? Apart from  Italy, I see no objections, and therefore take it that it is so decided by consensus.
25.5 We were to consider a report of the Legal Committee, but as we are running short of time, we can, with  your agreement, postpone that until next week. It is so agreed.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite) : REPONSE DU DIRECTEUR GENERAL  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued): REPLY BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién): RESPUESTA DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  OBCYXK/IFHHE BOITPOCOB OBILIEH TOJIHTHKH (npoxomxerne): OTBET 'TEHEPAJIBHOI'O  JIMPEKTOPA  pla! sll gg :(@b) dala! dla! LL
26. The PRESIDENT:  Now, over the last few days, during 12 plenary meetings to be more precise, we have heard the voice of  UNESCQO’s Member States. One by one, their representatives came to the rostrum and expressed their hopes and  fears. Many praised UNESCO for what it had accomplished and many spoke of their needs and their expectations  for the future. The Director-General or his representatives, and indeed all of us listened to what you had to say,  and it is now time to hear the response of the Director-General. I therefore give the floor to the Director-General.
27.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  “Peace in winter gardens, planting olive trees amidst darkness and turbulence, sharing and caring, love  amidst hatred, hope over despair”, to quote a passage from “Olives from Jericho” by Anees Jung. We must plant  every day in winter gardens knowing that many seeds will not bear fruit, but knowing also that we will never reap  the harvest. Our children will never harvest the fruits of the seeds, and of this we must be well aware. We have  not had the courage and the wisdom to plant. The future is not yet written. The future is our hope. We can still  shape it. We can invent a new design, the design that we dreamt of for so many days and nights. A dream of one  person is only a dream, a dream of many becomes a reality to be enjoyed one day. We will overcome the present  trends with tolerance and togetherness. The dignity of others is our own dignity. As you, the President of the  General Conference, Ms Jaroslava Moserova have stated: whoever violates the human dignity of another destroys  his own and whoever elevates the human dignity of others enhances his own.
27.2 Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, ministers,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the general policy debate which has just ended has been a high point in
514   international life: 165 delegations spoke, including 125 ministers and 20 observers. We had the privilege of  listening to His Excellency Hugo Châvez Frias, President of the Republic of Venezuela; His Excellency  Mr Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe; His Excellency Mr Mohammed Khatami, President  of the Islamic Republic of Iran; His Excellency Mr Didjob Divungi di Ndinge, Vice-President of the Gabonese  Republic; and Mrs Rigoberta Menchû Tum, Nobel Prize for Peace. Such has been the quality and authority of all  who have spoken from this rostrum that the scope of what has been said goes in my view far beyond the simple  framework of the Organization’s Programme and Budget, offering us the outline of a policy for the world on the  eve of the twenty-first century.
27.3 Of the most important subjects addressed by the heads of the different delegations in the plenary the  first, I am particularly happy to say, has been the culture of peace. The culture of peace was mentioned in
111 statements. Decentralization was mentioned in 25 statements and there were other statements commending  the present programmes of the Organization. Ladies and gentlemen, this clearly demonstrates the views of the  Member States of UNESCO. The plenary provides an opportunity for Member States to give their opinions on  the life of the Organization over the last two years and on how the Organization should initiate the next biennium  and the views expressed should be fully relevant to the work of the commissions. We must avoid contradictions  between what is said in the plenary by the heads of the delegations and what is discussed and decided in the  commissions. We must be guided, of course, by the C/4 document, that is, the Medium-Term Strategy. As we are  now embarking, as you know, on the last two years of the six-year Medium-Term Strategy, it is particularly  important for us to take into account the results obtained in the first four years in order to begin work on the next  Medium-Term Strategy. But we also must take into account the declaration of world conferences convened by  the United Nations and more particularly our own declarations, such as the Jomtien World Declaration on  Education for All and the Declaration on Adult Learning. Sometimes we still discuss elements of adult education  as if the Hamburg Conference had not taken place. Therefore, we must take into account the views expressed in  plenary, the C/4 document representing the strategy of the Organization for a period of six years, as well as the  United Nations world conferences, and particularly the UNESCO conferences - the International Conference on  Higher Education here in Paris, the Seoul International Congress on Technical and Vocational Education, the  World Conference on Science, the Stockholm Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for  Development - because that is the only way of giving coherence to the work of the commissions and the  resolutions that will eventually be adopted by the plenary of the General Conference. But the purpose is to give  guidance not just for today and the next few days but for the coming biennium, because we must be coherent in  the intellectual, scientific and ethical positions we take. It is pointless to make general statements on  improvements if they are not good and concrete proposals that provide better solutions to the problems analysed.  The intergovernmental organizations to which some of the countries which have made this analysis belong often  do not set a good example. Another risk is that of dealing at the micro-management level with very complex  issues, particularly staff issues and thus revealing one’s unpreparedness. There is the risk of contradictions, as  when Member States that have been against decentralization show interest in plans to decentralize an important  UNESCO institution. I recommend a fully democratic approach to work in the commissions, letting everyone  express their views so that the debate will result in the adoption of pertinent resolutions that will be subsequently  approved by the plenary.
27.4 We are about to enter a new millennium, and century. This General Conference is the last one of the  century and it must show the world that the intellectual arm of the United Nations is truly ambitious: we must aim  very high. We must appeal to all the teachers of the world, to all the artists, all the journalists, all the scientists,  all the families, all the communities, to parliaments and to all those involved in the work of our Organization, to  help us to build peace in the minds of men, to build a new world based on words and not on war.
27.5 In this plenary, you have described that world, in a very convergent manner, with reference to general  features that concern all - rich or poor, powerful or more humble. Simply by taking these features into account we  introduce a major new element into our conception of history in the making. National interest has never been  brought to the forefront here, unless it was to express pride at having contributed to a broader ambition or at  having enhanced an exceptional heritage for the benefit of all. The outlook of the Member States is indeed an  international one, and I welcome that fact as an important advance in itself.
27.6 Everyone seems now convinced that our world must be approached in its globality, and hence on the  scale of a vision and an action that may properly be called global. Therein lies the raison d’étre of the United  Nations system, and first and foremost of UNESCO.
27.7 This debate, which has been so fertile in ideas for renewing our understanding of the world we live in,  has identified major lines of action for UNESCO, for its Member States, which bear primary responsibility, and  for non-governmental organizations, for citizens, men and women of goodwill, in their day-to-day commitment to  a better world. The Organization is both the framework within which this vision is formed and one of the  protagonists in its implementation.
27.8 As this vision of the world is more and more widely shared, over and above differences of approach and  feeling, I see a sign of progress that should give us courage and confidence in the future: progress with regard to  human rights. For in a world which is less and less compartmentalized, the fundamental value which is taking on  more and more importance is human dignity and the essential rights which are attached to human beings,  wherever and in whatever circumstances it is their fate to be born. The “intellectual and moral solidarity of  mankind” which our Constitution assigned us the difficult task of building is becoming progressively a reality as,  over and above the differences that remain, the shared identity of all men and all women as subjects of human  rights is more and more strongly asserted. This is for me one of the more important aspects of the debate in  plenary.
27.9 If the fundamental unity of humankind is expressing itself so strongly in this debate, it is because it is  rooted in respect for, and indeed the passionate cultivation of, diversity. In the face of the risk of uniformization,  we have heard the unanimous affirmation of a vigilant desire to enhance creativity, authenticity and the features  that are our own individual characteristics. The unity of the world which you have outlined and which will take  shape in the future will not arise from the abolition of differences but from their harmonious interaction. The  globalization of problems and solutions, the agreement on clearly defined lines of force and the universal  affirmation of human rights as a vector of the unity of mankind - these are the three intellectual pillars which  emerge very clearly from your debates as a whole, and they establish a framework for action for the international  community which you represent.
27.10 The agreement on clearly defined lines of force and the universal affirmation of human rights and of our  diversity, our unicity, the unicity of each and every human being. Several delegates stressed the unique role of  UNESCO in ensuring that human rights are fully respected in cyberspace. Actually, the issue of a legal  framework for cyberspace is being discussed in other international organizations alike, such as ITU, OECD,  WIPO and WTO from the prevailing commercial and technological standpoint of highly developed countries.  The mission of UNESCO is to offer a forum of reflection for all countries, with the aim of reaching a world  agreement on the core values of cyberspace. If the new century succeeds in establishing such an agreement for  cyberspace, then education, science, culture and economic welfare will be accessible to all the people of the  world. The ethics of behaviour in cyberspace is therefore an essential issue for those who care about the future of  humankind in the next biennium.
27.11 UNESCO is but one of the actors which must carry out this programme of action that you have set for  yourselves during the debate, by sketching out a picture of tomorrow’s world. For there is much to be done. No  one can be unaware that at the end of this millennium the dominant mood is one of pessimism. Instead of  receding, inequalities are being accentuated. At the last six sessions of the General Conference we have warned  about the reasons for these disparities, but so far this warning has not been heard by the world decision-making  bodies. The overall progress which has been noted is the rather artificial result of very rapid progress in some  areas and countries, accompanied by stagnation, or even regression, in many others. Concern for future  generations, for non-renewable assets, for equity in sharing the benefits of progress, is not the force that is  driving the world. The progress to which we aspire will not occur unaided. It calls for clear and unambiguous  action by States and their citizens, and also, of course, for action by UNESCO. You have set very clear directions  for this action. Your debates indeed legitimize the thrust of the efforts made during the past biennia and confirm  the main lines of emphasis of the Medium-Term Strategy of which the next biennium will be the third and last  stage. This continuity takes its place within a broader context, that of the follow-up to the major international  conferences which have, in UNESCO’s various spheres of competence, set the longer term strategies. It  emphasizes therefore the need for continuous efforts, the imperative need for consolidation. Now we cannot say  any more that we do not know what to do. We cannot ask ourselves any more what kind of development we want.  We cannot ask ourselves any more how we can help to implement a culture of peace and non-violence, because  we have approved in the United Nations or here in UNESCO the relevant Declarations and Plans of Action.
27.12 To ensure continuity by the United Nations - and I would like to emphasize that UNESCO starts with  “UN”, United Nations. Here we are in UNESCO, in Paris, to ensure continuity for you, for your nations, that are  united in the task of building peace in the minds of men through education, science and culture. We must know,  first of all, what has been done and what is being done. Sometimes I have had the impression that people have not  had the time to read and inform themselves about ongoing activities, about what is already in the pipeline, about  all that we have so far achieved, particularly the most important programmes in science, including the human  sciences, the Man and the Biosphere programme, the programme of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission, the International Hydrological Programme, the Management of Social Transformations (MOST)  Programme - all these are existing activities for which we must be very thankful. I associate myself with the  views expressed to the General Conference. These various programmes concerned with geology, with hydrology,  with oceanology, with various aspects of the environment, with social transformation, give us good examples of  coordination. We must also take into account our excellent cooperation on an equal footing with very relevant  non-governmental organizations, or with the Biotechnology Action Council which was created by UNESCO and
516   today plays a very important role in the forefront of plans in biotechnology. And we must not forget our  programmes such as Memory of the World or initiatives such as Focus on the Pacific and Focus on the  Caribbean. Yes, before talking about evaluation, we must acknowledge what has already been done. We must  also take account of the new partnerships and the synergy with the United Nations, with intergovernmental  organizations and with the financial institutions at the regional or worldwide level.
27.13 But above all, in regard to our relations with Member States, I have had many meetings with ministers  attending the General Conference and now it is even clearer to me than it was before that efficiency means being  attentive to the concrete needs of countries at this historic moment. And this kind of rapid reaction on the part of  UNESCO is the most important criterion of efficiency for the Organization. It has been said that we need “a  pragmatic, non-political approach to the problems”. I completely disagree. The solutions are political. All the  problems related to human rights cannot be solved by charity or by handing them over to non-governmental  organizations. It 1s by political measures that some countries are reaching, or will reach by the year 2000, the  target of 6% of GNP for investment in education. These are political decisions, and what we need are political  decisions to avoid the shame of street children, or paedophilia, or the failure to treat the poor sufferers from  AIDS with the therapy that we have today in the affluent countries. All these are political measures and we must  never forget that the purpose of this Organization is to persuade, to remember, to be the conscience of the United  Nations system and its Member States that need the guidance and assistance of the best world practices in the  fields of our competence.
27.14 During the plenary, I was, in this connection, impressed by the many statements which drew attention to  the substantial progress made in the direction set by one or other of the policies lately proposed in this meeting  room: thus Chile told us that the proportion of its gross domestic product devoted to education had increased  from 4.5% to 7% while in Argentina it had progressed from 3.65% to 5%, and indeed other even more  spectacular achievements have been noted. I have already referred in my introductory remarks to the excellent  improvements in Bangladesh, in India, in Egypt, in Brazil and in Mexico, belonging to what we call the “nine  giants”, the most highly populated developing countries in the world. The time has gone when Member States  expected the Organization to work miracles for them; they are now taking their own progress in hand, and this is  in my view the most important thing we have done in the last 10 years: countries are now investing out of their  own budgets, not getting into the vicious circle of asking for loans but relying on themselves. And from us they  receive expert knowledge, inspiration and support. That too, in my view, redefines the Organization’s purpose.  (The Director-General continues in French)
27.15 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, comme l'a dit le représentant de l'Indonésie, en une  formule lapidaire qui résume bien la première conclusion de vos travaux, "L'éducation pour tous”, c'est aussi  "Tous pour l'éducation" ("Education for all" should also be seen as "All for education"). Votre analyse du monde  conduit, et c'est naturel, à mettre au premier plan de tout programme d'action l'éducation. C'est grâce à elle que  chaque homme, chaque femme, a une chance de trouver sa place dans l'univers en pleine transformation que nous  habitons. C'est par elle que l'humanité entretient, renouvelle, et développe la force la plus grande dont elle  dispose pour agir sur elle-même et sur le monde, à savoir la force de l'esprit. Mais lorsque nous parlons  d'éducation, désormais, il est patent que nous n'avons plus à l'esprit seulement la salle de classe, l'école, le  système éducatif. Nous parlons d'abord de l'apprenant. Nous ne pouvons plus dissocier l'enseignement de  l'apprentissage. Si les systèmes éducatifs classiques demeurent partout une base, et en bien des endroits un  chantier encore inachevé, nous savons désormais que cette dimension du problème, qui nous a longtemps  occupés, n'en est qu'une fraction.
27.16 Le besoin d'éducation se présente à tous les âges de la vie, dans toutes sortes de domaines, à toutes  sortes de fins, depuis l'apprentissage élémentaire du civisme ou de la lecture jusqu'à des apprentissages  professionnels très pointus, en passant par les quatre piliers identifiés par la Commission Delors, auxquels vous  êtes nombreux à vous être référés. Satisfaire ce besoin a certes un coût élevé, mais aussi un rendement plus élevé  encore, et l'exemple des sociétés les plus prospères montre que c'est aujourd'hui devenu l'investissement le plus  porteur de croissance. L'éducation est aussi la condition d'un développement démocratique, et un impératif moral  envers tout individu, dès lors que son absence est devenue, si elle ne l'a pas toujours été, une source de privation  et d'exclusion.
27.17 Cette vision a désormais suffisamment gagné les esprits, grâce sans doute à la contribution de  l'UNESCO, pour qu'on puisse dorénavant espérer que les nations sauront par elles-mêmes promouvoir cet  investissement majeur, auquel je vois avec satisfaction que les grands bailleurs de fonds portent également un  intérêt signalé. Il est réconfortant d'observer que toutes les réformes éducatives en cours prennent leurs références  dans la Conférence de Jomtien sur l'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie, mais aussi dans d'autres
15   conférences qui commencent déjà a avoir un impact, celle de Hambourg, sur l'éducation des adultes, celle de  Séoul, sur l'enseignement professionnel, celle de Paris, sur l'enseignement supérieur.
27.18 Que doit faire l'UNESCO désormais ? Donner un sens, une cohérence, une qualité à cette dynamique, en  encourageant et soutenant les nécessaires réformes éducatives, en insistant sur la formation des maîtres et la  valorisation sociale de leur rôle, en montrant l'exemple de réussites éducatives au profit de ceux que nul ne songe  à éduquer, enfants de la rue, femmes des groupes les plus pauvres, populations indigènes demeurant à l'écart, et  toutes les autres catégories d'exclus. En cela, l'UNESCO peut jouer pleinement son rôle à la fois d'institution  d'amont, source d'inspiration et d'expertise, et d'organisation pilote ouvrant des voies encore mal assurées, là où  nul ne s'aventure volontiers.
27.19 On ne saurait offrir en partage aux pays en développement l'éducation de base et l'enseignement  technique. Je me suis insurgé dernièrement encore contre un grand programme destiné à ces pays qui portait sur  l'éducation de base et l'alphabétisation. C'est une question dont nous avons débattu, surtout après que Julius  Nyerere, ici même à l'UNESCO, nous eut mis en garde, en soulignant que l'éducation c'était toute l'éducation,  pour tous les pays, à tous les niveaux. Si nous, nous souhaitons vraiment venir à bout du sous-développement,  nous devons nous convaincre que sans enseignement supérieur de qualité, aucun pays n'accédera à un véritable  développement, à un développement endogène de tous ses citoyens, lui permettant de renforcer son identité  culturelle, mais aussi de participer aux activités de la communauté scientifique et intellectuelle. Sans  enseignement supérieur, les pays en développement restent des fournisseurs de main-d'oeuvre non qualifiée, des  consommateurs de ce que d'autres produisent. Le plus préoccupant, toutefois, ce n'est pas qu'ils soient des  consommateurs, mais qu'ils soient des consommateurs non avertis. Chacun doit avoir la maîtrise de soi,  autrement dit être éduqué et, dès lors, avoir la capacité de refuser les idées, et surtout les instructions, qui  viennent de l'extérieur.
27,20 L'UNESCO a encore à faire à cet égard : à cette expansion générale de l'éducation, elle doit veiller à  associer des valeurs positives, et promouvoir inlassablement la diversité - diversité linguistique, diversité des  cultures, diversité des métiers, diversité des savoir-faire, afin que le progrès quantitatif de l'éducation ne se  ramène pas à l'acquisition généralisée d'un bagage standard, prêt-à-porter, à simple finalité utilitaire. Saluons ici  la Nouvelle-Guinée, qui a reconnu par la loi 847 langues comme un moyen d'éducation dans les écoles, pour  mieux associer la population tout entière au développement.
27.21 Je relève dans vos débats une orientation particulièrement forte, qui consiste à rechercher une meilleure  synergie des approches sectorielles des problèmes, et donc des divers domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO.  C'est tout spécialement vrai du lien entre culture et éducation, mis en relief par la Conférence de Stockholm, à la  fois en termes de contenus et parce que les contextes culturels conditionnent l'impact de l'éducation. À cet égard,  je dois dire que j'attache une importance particulière à l'appel que j'ai lancé ici même, avant-hier, aux Etats  membres, en faveur de l'éducation artistique, instrument d'éveil de la créativité, et qui exprime bien cette relation,  à double sens d'ailleurs. L'exemple du Cambodge nous montre tout le parti à tirer de l'éducation au patrimoine  pour favoriser un développement qui puise sa force dans le capital culturel d'un peuple. Oui, tous les enfants sont  des artistes, tous les enfants sont des acteurs. Et nous devons les laisser s'exprimer par le langage universel de la  peinture, de la musique, de la danse. La créativité et l'art doivent être désormais au coeur des processus éducatifs.  On voit de même le lien qui grandit sans cesse entre éducation et communication, et la révolution que les  technologies modernes sont en train d'apporter dans l'accès au savoir, dans la géographie potentielle de la  maîtrise de l'information et des connaissances, et donc dans les données mondiales du développement. Quant à  l'indispensable corrélation entre l'éducation et les sciences, elle va trop de soi pour que j'en parle davantage, mais  je vous dirai que je suis particulièrement heureux de l'élaboration d'un guide pour l'enseignement des sciences  tenant compte des meilleures pratiques enregistrées dans le monde.
27.22 Madame la Présidente, ayant souligné ces interactions fécondes entre tous les domaines de notre  compétence, j'aimerais relever en contrepoint quelques-uns des aspects que vous avez reconnus à chacun d'eux  comme particulièrement importants. En matière d'éducation tout d'abord. À l'heure où se déploie le cybermonde,  je voudrais avec vous célébrer les enseignants, dont le rôle est apprécié dans le monde entier puisque nombre de  pays célèbrent maintenant la journée qui leur est consacrée. Les enseignants sont ceux qui ont entre les mains,  dans le coeur et dans l'esprit, l'avenir de nos enfants. Il faut donc rendre hommage à ce Mwalimu dont Julius  Nyerere voulait avec sagesse et clairvoyance faire le fer de lance du développement. L'éducation est d'abord, elle  sera toujours, une relation interpersonnelle, une parole échangée, un regard, la main du père et de la mère, la  raison de l'institutrice. C'est aussi une éthique de valorisation de celui qui apprend, dans laquelle l'important n'est  pas le volume des apports, mais la qualité des résultats, et on voit bien que les systèmes capables de saturer  d'informations l'utilisateur d'un terminal ne suffisent toujours pas à assurer cette valorisation.
27.23 En matière de culture, vous avez manifesté votre approbation pour l'évolution qui - sans délaisser le  patrimoine mondial au sens classique du terme, puisque, au contraire, vous recommandez d'en étendre la liste -  met de plus en plus l'accent sur le patrimoine immatériel. Le concept de patrimoine s'étend donc désormais à tous  ces faits de culture qui se transmettent comme la vie, par la vie, avec la vie - les langues, les traditions, les arts,  les coutumes, etc. Par ce biais, nous accédons non pas seulement aux vestiges de créations passées, mais au  principe même de toute création, et travaillons à transmettre aux générations futures l'empreinte de notre  présence et la ressource de leur propre expression à venir. J'ajoute que cette vitalité culturelle, que nous nous  proposons de fortifier partout et sous toutes ses formes, revêt deux caractères qui en font un outil décisif de  développement, à savoir, d'une part, une valeur quasiment éthique d'affirmation de soi, de manifestation d'une  dignité, dont nous savons qu'elle est à la racine de tout développement durable et authentique ; d'autre part, une  évidente valeur économique, puisque, en un temps où le tourisme est devenu la première industrie mondiale, la  qualité de l'environnement culturel et social prend de plus en plus d'importance dans la valorisation des sites  autour desquels s'organise ce flux, constituant un atout de développement particulièrement appréciable.
27.24  Permettez-moi enfin de relever combien le domaine de la culture tend à redevenir l'un des atouts  fondamentaux de notre Organisation, de pair avec l'éducation, dans le contexte des débats engagés autour de la  libéralisation du commerce mondial. Plusieurs pays, notamment la Turquie, se sont fait l'écho des préoccupations  de tous en matière de protection des éléments du patrimoine et des œuvres d'art dans ce contexte. Le maintien de  la diversité des expressions et des productions culturelles devient aujourd'hui le lieu même du débat de fond sur  la mondialisation, et l'enjeu d'un projet de civilisation pour notre temps. Vous avez à juste titre voulu clairement  que l'UNESCO soit dans ce domaine au premier rang de ce qui est, pour l'avenir, un combat fondamental. La  réunion des ministres de la culture restera à cet égard comme un moment fort de la présente session. Elle s'est  clairement exprimée. Je suis sûr que l'Organisation mondiale du commerce aura entendu son message. Il faut que  l'UNESCO continue d'examiner en profondeur tous les aspects de la question. Nous devons faire admettre la  spécificité des produits culturels, de ces produits qui reflètent la capacité de création des êtres humains.
27.25 La communication et plus particulièrement les enjeux de la société de l'information constituent un autre  domaine crucial pour l'action et l'avenir de l'UNESCO, tout simplement parce que c'est là que se jouent une  bonne partie de tous ses autres domaines de compétence. Nous devons à la fois aider à résorber les écarts entre  les "inforiches" et les "infopauvres”, qui sont par nature exponentiels, et agir au sein du cybermonde qui tend à  devenir le coeur de notre avenir, pour en analyser la nature et les évolutions, proposer des modalités, dénoncer  les dérives, sans jamais négliger tout le reste de l'univers de la communication que sont la presse, la radio, la  télévision. Dans ces domaines, l'UNESCO exerce une mission de vigilance et une responsabilité normative  constitutionnelle en matière de liberté de l'information et de libre circulation des idées, et je suis particulièrement  heureux que ceci ait été réaffirmé, avec force, pendant vos débats en plénière.
27.26 Notre responsabilité dans le domaine des sciences tend elle aussi à croître : la Conférence de Budapest,  dernière en date des grandes conférences par lesquelles nous avons refondé les bases de notre action dans tous les  domaines, a bien mis en relief la dimension éthique qui désormais accompagne tout le développement  scientifique, dès lors qu'il touche, réellement ou potentiellement, par excès ou par défaut, par action ou par  omission, aux principes, aux conditions et aux formes de la vie sur terre. C'est dire si le développement des  sciences exactes, sur lequel repose de plus en plus l'édifice de notre destin, doit nécessairement se conjuguer avec  un progrès peut-être plus rapide encore dans la connaissance de l'homme et des sociétés, qui incombe aux  sciences humaines et sociales. Le problème central de la gouvernance, qui conditionne la plupart des possibilités  de développement ainsi que l'évolution harmonieuse des sociétés, repose sur une connaissance et une  compréhension des sociétés, que leur évolution rapide impose de sans cesse renouveler. A cet égard, il incombe à  l'UNESCO de prêter main-forte aux décideurs, qui portent sur leurs épaules la responsabilité de cette  gouvernance, en mettant à leur disposition des éléments d'appréciation fondés sur les résultats de la recherche et  présentant toute la rigueur scientifique voulue.
27.27 Dans ces divers domaines, Madame la Présidente, l'UNESCO peut en effet contribuer à un  éclaircissement scientifique, technique, des problèmes et enjeux du monde contemporain. Mais la vraie portée de  l'UNESCO est d'être une instance de formulation de politiques et d'exigence politique collective envers chacun  de ses membres. Rien ne se fera de bon sans une volonté politique réelle, je le soulignais tout à l'heure, c'est-à-  dire qui se donne des moyens et des objectifs.
27.28 De ce point de vue, je constate avec beaucoup de satisfaction que, de session en session, la Conférence  générale manifeste une volonté toujours plus ferme de traduire en actes les résolutions qu'elle adopte et qui vont  bien plus loin que la seule conduite des actions du Secrétariat. Je me réjouis des effets heureux que cette  mobilisation générale produit dans tous nos domaines de compétence, et dont de nombreux orateurs ont cité des  exemples remarquables.
27.29 TI s'agit d'une évolution fondamentale, qui transforme le rôle et l'organisation du Secrétariat. Si, naguère,  ce dernier a pu être considéré comme le principal protagoniste de l'Organisation, il est désormais évident que ce  sont les Etats membres et d'innombrables partenaires au sein des sociétés qui sont les premiers acteurs et les  meilleurs garants du succès de l'UNESCO. La mission du Secrétariat est dès lors, outre son rôle de préparation et  de suivi des décisions des organes directeurs, d'animer, de coordonner, d'évaluer les actions qui donnent corps  aux politiques décidées par la Conférence générale. Cette fonction se situe manifestement en amont de la plupart  des activités à entreprendre, mais suppose aussi une présence rapprochée auprès des acteurs engagés dans les  actions concrètes. Je me félicite à cet égard du soutien apporté par de nombreux Etats membres aux activités de  l'Organisation dans le domaine de l'anticipation et de la prospective, et notamment aux Entretiens et Dialogues du  XXIe siècle, ainsi qu'au rapport prospectif, propres à hâter l'avènement d"'un monde nouveau". Bon nombre  d'Etats membres ont demandé que soit résolument poursuivi et même intensifié l'effort de l'Organisation dans ce  sens. Comme vous le savez, j'ai annoncé tout dernièrement ma décision de créer un Conseil du futur afin que  l'Organisation puisse jouer pleinement son rôle de tour de vigie, ne se bornant pas à décrire les évolutions, mais  tentant, à tout le moins, d'écrire notre avenir commun.
27.30 Certes, l'UNESCO n'est pas une institution de financement, ni une organisation d'ingénierie fournissant  des experts, encore moins un organisme ayant pour finalité son propre déploiement. L'UNESCO est une  organisation de coopération intellectuelle et morale entre les peuples, par le truchement de l'éducation, de la  culture, de la science et de la communication. Le délégué des Pays-Bas nous a invités à définir l'UNESCO du  futur comme le forum de la connaissance.
27.31 Forum de connaissance, oui, mais pour quoi faire ? Nous avons réfléchi ici de manière approfondie aux  objectifs que devait se proposer l'UNESCO, et je viens d'essayer de les résumer. Ces objectifs n'ont rien  d'abstrait, ils répondent à des besoins, qui ne relèvent pas tous de l'urgence. Les plus fondamentaux gisent  probablement dans le long terme, et nous devons garder une vision haute pour passer de la compassion face aux  malheurs du temps à l'action pour fonder un bonheur durable. Mais qu'il s'agisse d'action à effet immédiat ou  d'investissement patient dans la durée, il importe, Madame la Présidente, que nous gardions à l'esprit votre  invitation vigoureuse à agir, agir, et agir encore, c'est-à-dire à consacrer toute notre énergie, toutes nos  ressources, à transformer le monde, sans nous satisfaire de le refléter.
27.32 Cet objectif d'action pose en plein le problème des niveaux d'intervention de l'UNESCO. Vous êtes  nombreux à avoir insisté sur son rôle en amont, sa mission de veille, sa fonction normative. Mais aucun Etat  membre ici n'accepterait que l'UNESCO ne soit pas active sur son territoire, dans les champs de préoccupation  qui sont les siens. Il convient donc que l'UNESCO soit aussi motrice de projets. Cette double entrée, par le haut  et sur le terrain, pose tout le problème de la programmation, que vous voulez à la fois concentrée, pour produire  des résultats, et largement déployée, pour ne rien laisser en dehors de notre champ d'intervention. Les débats de  cette session ont clairement indiqué un objectif de recentrage, rendu au surplus inévitable par l'esquisse que la  majorité des interventions ont donné au cadre budgétaire du prochain exercice biennal. Il vous faudra, dans le  travail en commissions, trouver la sagesse d'identifier les priorités autour desquelles est susceptible de se  produire le plus vaste effet de généralisation, dont l'ancien président de la Conférence générale, M. Portella,  disait justement dans son allocution d'ouverture, qu'il est le meilleur critère de l'efficacité pour notre Organisation  et qui suppose que celle-ci soit présente sur le terrain, dans tous les Etats membres.
27.33 C'est pourquoi je ne pense pas que les améliorations pratiques que vous avez souhaitées, fondées sur un  renouveau des systèmes de programmation et de gestion, dans le souci d'une transparence et d'une rigueur  gestionnaire toujours plus grandes, épuisent la question de l'efficacité de l'UNESCO qui, je viens de le dire, exige  qu'elle soit aux côtés et à l'écoute des Etats membres pour pouvoir réagir immédiatement. S'il est certain que le  renouvellement du Secrétariat, qui commencera par son chef dans quelques jours, est aujourd'hui un objectif  important, j'attache pour ma part le plus grand prix à une réelle convergence des efforts entre le Directeur général  et les organes directeurs, gage de cohésion dans l'impulsion et dans le suivi des politiques qui se définissent ici.  Comme l'a encore fort bien dit un des intervenants, "il n'est de gestion que par rapport aux nécessités des Etats  membres”, et c'est cette compréhension politique, au sens le plus noble de la gestion, qu'il nous appartient de  partager.
27.34 Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et  Messieurs, en examinant ainsi les perspectives que vos débats viennent de tracer à l'UNESCO), je me sens porté à  une certaine retenue. J'ai la satisfaction de voir que vos orientations prolongent et développent celles que j'ai eu  le privilège de mettre en œuvre depuis 12 ans, et que l'avenir ainsi tracé consacre en somme un passé qui est très  présent à mon coeur et à mon esprit. Mais cet avenir appartient à mon successeur, pour qui je forme des voeux, et  à qui je suis heureux de passer l'honneur des responsabilités que je vais bientôt déposer.
27.35 L'heure est plutôt venue pour moi d'exprimer des remerciements à vous tous qui m'avez honoré de  propos dont l'intention amicale m'a vivement touché, sans que j'aie l'immodestie d'en accepter pour moi-même  tout ce qu'ils comportaient d'éloges. L'UNESCO ne s'incarne pas dans une personne, mais dans une communauté  d'esprit et d'action que vous représentez, et c'est le Secrétariat tout entier et à tous les niveaux, qui mérite ces  éloges. À l'instant où celui qui vous parle se retirera, ce Secrétariat poursuivra sa tâche sous une nouvelle  impulsion, au service d'une UNESCO éternelle dans ses desseins et constante dans son ambition. Aucune rupture  n'est à craindre puisque, aussi bien, ce sont les résolutions que vous adoptez qui tracent durablement la voie à  suivre.
27.36 Autres garants de cette continuité, les délégations permanentes sont pour l'UNESCO une aide précieuse.  Je tiens ici à leur rendre hommage pour rester présentes à nos côtés quel qu'en soit le prix. Je voudrais remercier  de même tous ceux qui ont contribué à améliorer la situation de trésorerie de l'Organisation - et je sais combien  de sacrifices cela a coûté à certains. Ma gratitude va à tous les Etats membres qui ont porté nos ressources  extrabudgétaires à un niveau sans précédent, avoisinant les 170 millions de dollars. La générosité avec laquelle  ils nous honorent de leur soutien place sous le signe de l'espoir et de l'optimisme les travaux qui vont à présent  s'engager au sein des commissions de programme.
27.37 Je dis enfin un grand merci à tous nos partenaires, à tous ceux qui ont mis leur image, leur savoir, leur  talent artistique au service du message de l'UNESCO, aux parlementaires, aux médias, aux très nombreuses  stations de radio, d'Amérique latine et d'ailleurs, qui relaient ce message et font entendre notre voix. Au moment  où l'Organisation entame une nouvelle étape, ces innombrables appuis sont, avec votre direction éclairée et la  source d'inspiration que constitue chaque session du Conseil exécutif, les meilleurs gages de succès.  (Le Directeur général poursuit en espagnol)
(27.38) Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, the twenty-first century is already dawning on the horizon as a new beginning. UNESCO and  the United Nations, on the initiative of our Organization, have greatly contributed to giving this new beginning a  name and a purpose: the culture of peace.
(27.39) In all regions of the world, as your statements in the general policy debate attest, women, men, youth and  children from all walks of life are already mobilizing to make the International Year for the Culture of Peace a year  of sowing, hope, openness to our neighbours, dialogue and solidarity. Yes, a year of sowing so that the devastation,  the hatreds, the rancour of a past made up of divisions, wars and violence may be covered over by the foundations  of a shared future.
(27.40) The culture of peace is the substance of peaceful coexistence, of that peace which must become part and  parcel of the daily behaviour of each individual in every sphere of the ever more complex life of our societies.  Today, too, we have before us the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations and a Declaration and  Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, whose ideals and objectives we must from this day forward transform  into reality. Implementing the Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, adopted by the United Nations on
13 September of this year, is now our most urgent task. Let nobody say that we do not know what we have to do.  The United Nations approved that programme as a system-wide programme and we have proposed a whole series  of activities that can really ensure that this transition from the “logic of force” to the “force of reason” is effected  rapidly.
(27.41) With regard to this dialogue among civilizations which is already part of this second year of the culture of  peace, I would like to cite a phrase from the address given by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran,  Mr Khatami: “While the twentieth century has been that of the force of the sword with its train of winners and  losers, we must realize that the central feature of the coming century has to be dialogue if the sword is not to be  transformed into a double-edged blade that spares no one”. In this connection, I would also like to pay tribute to  the President of Ecuador, Mr Jamil Mahuad. We have provided you with information in which you can read about  the establishment of an office, reporting directly to the President of the country, which is responsible for all aspects  of civic education, education for peace and human rights education and for watching out for any symptoms that  could once again give rise to conflict and endanger peace.
(27.42) In the same vein, I would also like to mention - you heard it read out in this room - the Youth Manifesto  for the twenty-first century. In preparing the submission to the Millennium United Nations General Assembly in  the year 2000 of the four contracts about which I have told you - a new social contract, a new environmental  contract, a new cultural contract and a new ethical-moral contract - in thinking of this programme of endogenous  development that we might carry out on a worldwide scale, I had in mind only these younger generations, these  parliamentarians who came here with this to tell us: “Listen to our wish for the future, our desires, our hopes! And  you will remember that the first among them was peace, education, respect for the environment and solidarity”.
(27.43) It is very important that you give due regard to this Youth Manifesto for the twenty-first century in the  proceedings of this session of the General Conference and in the commission debates. I should like to echo to all  those young people the poem of the great Rafael Alberti, who only a few days ago crossed the frontier from the  visible to the invisible - because Rafael Alberti will always remain as an inspiration beside us - that poem which  says, and I dedicate this to the young people who came here to present us with the Manifesto: “Sing out loud. You  will hear that other ears are hearing. Look up high. You will see that other eyes are looking. Let your heart beat  hard. You will know that other blood is coursing through other veins”. Thank you very much for your attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you, Mr Director-General. Dear friends, distinguished delegates, I remind you again that His  Excellency the Vice-President of the Dominican Republic will be arriving at 12.15 p.m., so will you please  remain in your seats as he will be addressing this gathering in a few minutes’ time.
522   VISITE DE S. EXC. M. JAIME DAVID FERNANDEZ MIRABAL, VICE-PRESIDENT DE LA  REPUBLIQUE DOMINICAINE  VISIT OF HIS EXCELLENCY MR JAIME DAVID FERNANDEZ MIRABAL, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE  DOMINICAN REPUBLIC  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR. JAIME DAVID FERNANDEZ MIRABAL, VICEPRESIDENTE DE LA  REPUBLICA DOMINICANA  BH3HT ErO IIPEBOCXOJIUTEJILCTBA I'-HA XAÏME JIABUJIA ®EPHAHJIECA MHPABAJIS,  BUIIE-TTPE3UJIEHTA JJOMHHHKAHCKOÏH PECITYBJIHKH  AS giga gl yond] ps i JU 500009 315 goes dyed) Lidl LL EL  EX nF EE] ES Jaime David Fernandez Mirabal TER TP)  (The Vice-President of the Dominican Republic and Mrs Campos de Fernändez  enter the hall and are escorted to their places)
29.1 The PRESIDENT:  Mr Vice-President, Mr Chetsanga, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to welcome in  this house of culture and peace His Excellency Mr Jaime David Fernäéndez Mirabal, Vice-President of the  Dominican Republic, and Mrs Carmen Campos de Fernändez. Your Excellency, if I may say something on a  more personal level, my pleasure is particular because I am not just welcoming you within the context of this  august gathering, but also as a kindred soul, a kindred spirit who has followed almost the same path that I chose,  from medicine to politics (I am also a doctor), from the care of the individual to the care of the community at  large.
29.2 Your presence at this 30th session of our General Conference, the last of this millennium and perhaps  we can say the first of the next, is of particular significance. The Dominican Republic is one of the founding  countries of UNESCO, one of its greatest allies. For more than 50 years, it has given its unwavering support to  the Organization. And, now, as we enter a new era, as we reassess our role in the future and the message which  we have to bear to the world, it is fitting that those who were present at UNESCQO’s inception, be here to assert  their continued commitment to the Organization.
29.3 Sir, you form part of the future generation of which I speak very often and this is why I have great  hopes. I have hope when I observe the determination with which your country has taken to the path of democracy  in a bid to build a durable peace. I have hope when I see the efforts that you put into ensuring that your fellow-  citizens have the most fundamental basis - education - for making informed choices in the exercise of the  freedom which they now enjoy. I have hope when I see your efforts, at home and within the global forum, which  aims to fight corruption at all levels. When I observe all this, Mr Vice-President, then maybe I can permit myself  to believe that the legacy which we will leave our children is not too bad; that the ideals which we have  stubbornly upheld for more than 50 years and for which we have fought continue to have value.
29.4 Your Excellency, allow me to reiterate my pleasure in welcoming you here today and thank you,  yourself and the Dominican Republic, for your unfailing support. We extend our warmest welcome to both you  and Her Excellency. May the collaboration which UNESCO enjoys with your great country continue to grow and  remain fruitful. Thank you for being with us.
29.5 I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Executive Board.
30.1 Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Mr Vice-President of the Dominican Republic, Madam President of the General Conference,  Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Executive Board of UNESCO, it is a great honour for me to welcome His Excellency Mr Jaime Fernändez  Mirabal, Vice-President of the Dominican Republic, one of the founding Member States of UNESCO.
30.2 Mr Vice-President, your visit to UNESCO is very important to us. The current session of the General  Conference has had the great privilege of receiving several eminent political personalities. UNESCO is an  organization dedicated to the development of international intellectual cooperation helping to understand better  the changes occurring in the world today and to devise innovative strategies for the future. The role of the  Organization is to encourage, stimulate, advise and facilitate this process. We innovate and formulate the  strategies required for the implementation of programmes that we initiate. It is the Member States that are the  lifeblood of UNESCO. One of its major assets as an intergovernmental organization is the facility that this  affords UNESCO to interact with national leaders. It can support the efforts of its Member States and galvanize  their will to act. Without that will, no player has a chance of succeeding.
30.3 Your beautiful country Your Excellency, has a strategic position in the Caribbean region. It is common  knowledge that when Christopher Columbus set his eyes on your island State on the first voyage in 1492, he  could not stop marvelling at its natural beauty and proclaiming that “There is no more beautiful island in the  world”. Yet this beautiful island was not spared by one of the most tragic events of history: slavery and the  transatlantic slave trade. Slavery represents one of the most flagrant illustrations of inhumanity. We believe that  the current fight for human rights must include remembrance of these violations committed in the past.
30.4 One year ago, the thematic debate in our Executive Board was devoted to the theme “Fiftieth  anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a duty to remember and to be vigilant - from slavery  to the full attainment of human dignity”. And only two weeks ago, the Board received Ms Christiane Taubira  Delannon, a Deputy in the French National Assembly. She is an eloquent activist who has worked to have the  French National Assembly enact legislation to recognize slavery and the slave trade as a crime against humanity.  On that occasion, we were deeply touched by the generous gift offered by the Ambassador of the Dominican  Republic to UNESCO, on behalf of your government. The painting depicting slavery will soon be among the  works of art hanging on the walls of UNESCO Headquarters, reminding us to be ever vigilant.
30.5 UNESCO, in collaboration with the institutions and partners from the Dominican Republic, will  endeavour to enhance your country’s natural and cultural heritage as an economic resource through the  promotion of creativity, cultural industries and cultural tourism. We shall work with your country to develop  education programmes and information dissemination activities to promote and sustain a culture of peace.  Mr Vice-President, once again I bid you welcome to UNESCO.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Chetsanga. I now invite the Director-General of UNESCO to take the floor.
(32.1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish):  Your Excellency the Vice-President of the Dominican Republic, Mr Jaime David Ferndndez Mirabal,  Mrs Carmen Campos de Fernändez, Your Excellency the Ambassador of the Dominican Republic, distinguished  members of the entourage of the Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to add my voice  to those of the President of the General Conference and the Chairperson of the Executive Board in bidding you a  most cordial welcome to the 30th session of the General Conference, just as I did two years ago, when you  honoured us with your presence in this same forum.
(32.2) I salute in you the new generation of Latin American political leaders, who, with a keen social sense,  have set in motion new processes of governance and democratization in their respective countries, without losing  sight of the history, traditions, shortcomings and potential of their peoples; this is a generation which is carrying  out a far-reaching task of renovation, in which freedom and respect for human rights occupy pride of place.
(32.3) Shortly after your last visit, I had the opportunity of travelling to your country, the Dominican Republic,  a place where - in the words of the poet José Emilio Pacheco - “... the sea has no beginning. It starts where you first  find it and comes to meet you from all sides”. That was not my first encounter with your country, which is so close  to mine in language and culture; but it was most certainly an eye-opener to see for myself, rather than to gather  from statistics, the determined efforts your government is making to bring education to the most remote corners of  the Republic. This expansion of the education system is creating a dynamic of social and economic changes which  are helping to build peace and promote sustainable development. UNESCO, Mr Vice-President, has had the  privilege of contributing, discretely but enthusiastically, to the efforts that the government and President Leonel  Fernandez Reyna have been making in these fields.
(32.4) I should like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the Dominican Republic for its extremely  generous gesture in placing at UNESCO’s disposal a perfectly restored and fully equipped building which is part of  the colonial heritage of Santo Domingo, to serve as the UNESCO Office in that city. Once again, my deepest  gratitude to President Fernandez Reyna and the Dominican people as a whole for this offer, which has such special  significance for UNESCO.
(32.5) Very shortly, your country will be hosting the Second Summit of Heads of State or Government of the  Africa, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States. The imminence of this meeting brings to mind the words of one of  the most brilliant intellectuals of Latin America, Pedro Henriquez Urefia, a Dominican whom I quote for the  second time in addressing myself to Your Excellency. He said: “In a Utopian world, the differences of character  rooted in climate, language and traditions must not disappear. Instead, rather than signifying division and discord,  all these differences must come together as the myriad nuances of human unity. ‘Never’ to uniformity, the ideal of  arid imperialism; but ‘yes’ to unity, the harmony of the many voices of the peoples”. Thank you, Mr Vice-President  Fernandez Mirabal, for your visit to UNESCO, and for bringing us the joyful, vigorous and hopeful message of the  noble people of the Dominican Republic. Thank you very much.
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I now have the great pleasure and honour of inviting the Vice-President of the  Dominican Republic, His Excellency Mr Jaime David Ferndndez Mirabal to address the General Conference. Sir,  you have the floor.
(34.1) Mr FERNANDEZ MIRABAL, Vice-President of the Dominican Republic (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished ambassadors and representatives of Member States, first of all, I should like to extend  greetings to this great General Conference on behalf of President Leonel Fernandez, our governmental team and the  Dominican people, and to express special thanks to Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza for his leadership of this  Organization during the last 12 years. We also wish the new Director-General recently elected to the head of this  Organization of ours every success; we assure him of our full support and our interest in encouraging every activity  to further the education, science and culture of our peoples.
(34.2) Two years ago, as the Director-General has said, we came to this General Conference with ideas, with  projects and with the remit to accept, on behalf of President Leonel Ferndndez, the Taino Peace Medal, which he  shared with the President of the sister Republic of Haiti, President René Préval, and which was awarded to both by  UNESCO in recognition of their efforts to foster peace, solidarity and the development of our peoples. On that  occasion, we had many ideas and had begun action to reaffirm the principles in which, as a new political  generation, we believe in order to achieve genuine human development for our peoples.
(34.3) Today, two years later, we can report on that action and its results, which demonstrate that the Dominican  Government's efforts to that end have been increased, embracing all sectors of national life, permitting  participation, in the broadest sense of the word “plurality”, by all social organizations and non-governmental  organizations, as well as the opposition political parties, so that together we can further extend the commitments  firmly made in support of the rights of the Dominican people, development, solidarity and the establishment of a  new culture of peace. The democratic vocation of our people and of our new political generation has gone beyond  words and has tangibly resulted in the strengthening of national institutions: in a State that has long been over-  centralized, we have made efforts to encourage a process of reform, modernization and decentralization of the  State, with a truly independent judiciary, designed to provide citizens with safeguards and security, and with an  effective separation of State powers.
(34.4) This process of establishing democratic institutions has been accompanied by activities to strengthen a  truly democratic culture, a culture deeply rooted in our people, a culture conducive to peace, respect for human  rights, tolerance and solidarity. We have supported initiatives taken by non-governmental organizations such as the  National Movement for Human Rights and Peace, and a training programme for young leaders for peace. The  initiative to support young leaders for peace reflects our conviction that the values promoted by UNESCO and by  all of us who believe in the development of our peoples will be espoused by the country’s new leaders only if they  come from among the leaders of social organizations. We are promoting the teaching of values, morality and civics  in the new national education system.
(34.5) We are promoting a national science and technology system as part of our State policy, which means that  it is open to participants from all sectors of society and that it is based on participation and planning by members of
35.1  all the sectors that make up the Dominican State rather than simply by our government or our present civil service.  We have been supporting ever greater participation by associations of parents, mothers, friends of the school  system as a means of strengthening the new model of education of the Dominican Republic. We have been working  on the National Literacy Programme, on programmes to promote values among youth and environmental  education, on activities to combat the rising levels of conflict in marginal areas; and we have been engaged in an  ongoing campaign to prevent and attend to the problems of violence within the family, which affects women and  children in particular. We have placed on the national agenda important discussions on the issue of the human  genome and the responsibility of present generations towards future generations as an integral part of ethics for the  twenty-first century. As we have indisputably made great strides forward in science, technology and education, the  world seems different today in this global village of the new times. But as my grandmother used to say, we must  never forget the great values of our forebears: civilization moves on but morality remains constant; although  technology, science and education change, ethical values do not. The values linked to our roots or our human  solidarity must not be left behind in the course of our peoples’ technological progress and rising urbanization. This  is how we have reaffirmed in our country the commitment to the essential principle of UNESCO: the construction  of peace in the human mind through science, education and culture.
(34.6) The Dominican Republic appreciates very much the role that UNESCO has played in this process, it  recognizes its achievements and, under its new foreign policy as a country that used to be rather isolated from the  mainstream, in the last few years it has constantly increased its collaboration with UNESCO. One of our concerns  has been to increase the viability and visibility of UNESCO?s principles and programmes in Dominican society.  There is no doubt that UNESCO’s ideas in its fields of competence have had an influence on the definition of the  Dominican Republic’s activities and policies in education, science, culture and communication. In particular, we  wish to acknowledge that, in the last few years, UNESCO’s ethical principles have guided and inspired the  Dominican Republic’s present government and non-governmental institutions, schools, universities, community  leaders, new political leaders, young people, artists, researchers and communicators in general. The country has  also reinforced its presence in this Organization’s activities through its work here, at UNESCO’s Headquarters, and  through its participation in world conferences and sectoral meetings organized by UNESCO.
(34.7) The Dominican Republic has its eyes fixed on the present and is clearly aware of the issues and  challenges that, as a nation, it will have to tackle head-on in the new century. We understand that dealing with the  effects of globalization and of scientific and technological advances in informatics and communication is a task that  we will have to undertake together, as citizens, as a country and as a region, in coordination with other countries  and other regions of the world. Aware of this, the Dominican Republic has endeavoured to strengthen its  democratic institutions and its relations with other countries in various regions through active participation in  Ibero-American summits, in the Association of Caribbean States and in CARICOM, through its membership of the  Central American and Caribbean communities and its accession to the Rio Group. As the Director-General has  said, in the next few days, the Dominican Republic will host the Second Summit of Heads of State or Government  of the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States in this Group’s negotiations with the European Union, and in  that respect we will have to strengthen our unity of ideas and common interests in order to secure benefits for our  people and use that as a general guideline for the activities and programmes that will be carried out in the new  century.
(34.8) The Dominican Republic, given its geographical position and its history as a meeting point of cultures, is  trying to consolidate a position of openness to the world and an approach of greater solidarity with like-minded  peoples. In this world in which globalization holds sway, it is necessary to defend multiculturality and strengthen  recognition of and respect for particular cultural bodies. We must foster a new culture of acceptance of diversity  among peoples. With this in mind, the Dominican Republic is standing as a candidate in the elections to the  Executive Board of UNESCO, which will be held shortly, during this session of the General Conference. If elected,  we will contribute energetically towards building the Organization’s future with new approaches and new  determination for the benefit of all like-minded nations which make up this Organization and from which we seek  support. We are founding members of UNESCO, and it would be the first time that we are entitled to membership  of the Executive Board.
(34.9) We believe that development means well-being with dignity, which implies quality of life and respect for  inalienable principles such as freedom and democracy. We believe that UNESCO, in the new millennium, will  have to encourage leadership and ethics, piece together the experience of the last 52 years and, with new ideas and  this wealth of earlier experience, encourage a new form of leadership for the twenty-first century by becoming an  institution that promotes and increasingly practises a new culture of multisectoral and multi-institutional work, with  the objective of using resources in a genuinely efficient manner. We understand that this accumulated experience,  together with new ideas, must lay the foundations for UNESCO increasingly to take on its role of leadership and to  become the compulsory point of reference for the twenty-first century in all its fields of competence. Thank you  very much.  The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency very much for his presentation. Perhaps we should try to aim for the  globalization of moral values and culture as you understand it and as we understand it. It is very gratifying to hear  from you, Sir, that your country, your government is aiming in the same direction as this very Organization and  that your democracy is now maturing like good wine. We certainly wish you every success. And I would ask you
15  to be so kind as to convey our greetings and our appreciation to your President, Mr Leonel Fernandez Reyna. We  hope you will continue on this very good path and I am sure that as time goes on distances will shrink and you  will not be isolated.
35.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now adjourn the meeting, but will you please remain in your seats while  we accompany our honoured guests to the door. Thank you. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée a 13 h.05  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.05