Vingt-cinquième séance plénière
16 novembre 1999 a 15 h.10  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : Mme KARVEUIS (Lituanie)  puis : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twenty-fifth plenary meeting
16 November 1999 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Ms KARVELIS (Lithuania)  later: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Vigésima quinta sesiôn plenaria
59 phaJlg duno! ola] nln)  BI am vo LeL IN 01989 SUI 085) padg NU  (LS223) Lyyggandl) Bayajgo Bgl Baud! uns I  (lois) paris) S cram gf Basa! 5  (LS223) Ljagandl) Bayajge BDLa9)l Baud! 15  HA — à)  LER al ea
703   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION IV : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION IV: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION IV: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  HOKJIA/| KOMHCCHH IV: PE3OJIOIMHH H PEKOMEH/[AIHH  lao gilly CNE dal JI Ladd! py à  BIVERSHME: REGIE
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  As usual I should like to thank those who are on time, but I shall have to adjourn the meeting for five  minutes as there is no quorum.  (The meeting is adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 I declare open the twenty-fifth plenary meeting of the General Conference. We begin our work with the  examination of the report of Commission IV. The documents we have to consider are 30 C/64 and 30 C/64  Addendum and Corrigendum. I now give the floor to Mr Vassilikos, Chairperson of Commission IV, who will  present the oral report of his Commission.
2.1 Mr VASSILIKOS (Greece), Chairperson of Commission IV:  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-  General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to present to this  plenary session of the General Conference for adoption, the outcome of the work accomplished by  Commission IV during its deliberations. The decisions taken by our Commission are reflected in document
30 C/64. 1 understand that document 30 C/64 Addendum and Corrigendum which you have received,  incorporates the amendments suggested during the adoption of the report by our Commission.
2.2 The presentation of this report, while not exhaustive, will reflect the substance of the discussions which  took place in our Commission and of the statements by all the participants who made our work possible. The full  oral report as presented by the Rapporteur in Commission IV is distributed in document 30 C/INF.54. As my  report is a synthesis of the decisions reached by consensus in the Commission, I will not mention the names of  the specific Member States which took part in the discussion unless such a mention has been specifically  requested by the Member State concerned or is otherwise exceptionally warranted.
2.3 The work of our Commission was divided into three debates. The first was on the parts in the Draft  Programme and Budget pertaining to culture and on most of the related agenda items with the exception of those  covering Jerusalem and UNESCO in the twenty-first century, which were discussed respectively in debates 2  and 3. I shall start with the first debate, on Major Programme III: Cultural development: the heritage and  creativity and on the Transdisciplinary project: Towards a culture of peace (Unit 3) together with agenda items
4.10, 4.11, 4.13, 4.14, 4.15 and 7.5.
24 In Debate 1 most of the delegates referred to the Stockholm Plan of Action for Cultural Policies as the  basis which must guide both the implementation of UNESCO”s programme for culture in the upcoming biennium
2000-2001, and the formulation of the next Medium-Term Strategy 2002-2007. However, a number of speakers  felt that the articulation between the draft programme as presented and the Stockholm Action Plan was not  specific enough.
2.5 The Commission expressed the concern that there may be some parts of UNESCO’s programme which  belong more properly to Major Programme III than to the programme in which they are currently placed. In  particular, delegates requested better-integrated trans-sectoral implementation of activities pertaining to: (1) the  preservation of the world’s linguistic heritage; (2) the Memory of the World programme; (3) artistic education;
(4) equity of access to new technologies, especially those involving cyberspace, and to the content of information  on the Internet; and (5) the work of the Institute of Statistics in support of the indicators being developed for the  World Culture Report. They also asked for closer cooperation with the principal organizations concerned with  issues related to culture and development. Numerous delegates referred to the positive results of the round table  of Ministers of Culture which took place at UNESCO on 2 November.
2.6 A majority of speakers underscored UNESCQO’s important and unique role as regards standard-setting  actions. Delegates expressed satisfaction that the new Second Protocol to the 1954 Hague Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict is being adopted by States Parties and this has  given renewed vigour and relevance to that Convention and empowered its contemporary application.
2.7 Delegates also underscored the importance of signing the 7970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting  and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and of the activities of  the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its  Restitution in case of Illicit Appropriation. The Commission took note of the report of this Committee
(30 C/REP.14) as amended. Support was also given to the promotion of the 7972 Convention concerning the  Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and the World Heritage Centre was commended for its  work. However, numerous delegates expressed concern that the World Heritage List was not yet sufficiently  representative of the diversity of the world’s cultural and natural heritage and expressed the need for an improved  geographical balance.
2.8 The observer for Palestine asked that this report reflect his satisfaction with regard to the large-scale  programme, carried out by the Secretariat since the peace agreement and the installation of the Palestinian  National Authority, in favour of the Palestinian people in the field of the protection and promotion of the physical  and non-physical cultural heritage. He recommended, in the implementation of the programme for 2000-2001,  meeting the needs, as far as possible, of the two Ministries concerned, the Ministry of Antiquities and Tourism  and the Ministry of Culture, and paying particular attention to the promotion of legislation and regulations in this  field.
2.9 With the view to enhancing the protection of creative artists, delegates requested the Secretariat to step  up promotion and particularly training efforts to ensure the universality of the legal instruments protecting  copyright and neighbouring rights, including the Universal Copyright Convention and the Recommendation  concerning the Status of the Artist. Several speakers also expressed the need to carry out a preliminary study on  the advisability of a new standard-setting instrument for the protection of traditional culture and folklore.
2.10 Several delegates referred to the importance of UNESCO support to regional and country-specific  actions to document, safeguard and promote living cultural practices. It was considered that UNESCO should  assist Member States to develop these practices into significant and sustainable cultural industries for the  purposes of poverty alleviation and economic development. In this connection, numerous delegates stressed the  importance of the promotion of crafts and cultural tourism with due respect for the cultural specificity of each  community. Similarly, the role of arts festivals was highlighted and one delegate recalled UNESCO’s support for  the Music Festival “Sharq Taronalari” in Samarkand. Another delegate suggested the proclamation of an  International Year for Music or the Visual Arts.
2.11 Numerous delegates considered that, in the light of the impact of globalization and with regard to  Programme II1.2 on the development of cultural industries, UNESCO should take a leading role in the  affirmation of cultural diversity in order to ensure that the specific nature of cultural and artistic creation is duly  taken into account. The promotion of living cultures and of languages, as the vehicle of diverse cultural  expressions, were regarded by delegates as in particular need of a carefully planned strategy. The essential role  that UNESCO has to play in the integration of culture into community development strategies and the  transmission of cultural practices to youth, who are the essential stakeholders and beneficiaries of development  action, was underscored by many speakers, in particular those from Africa, Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
2.12 The Appeal by the Director-General for the promotion of arts education and creativity at school as part  of the construction of a culture of peace was applauded by a large number of delegates and a number of practical  proposals were made on how to implement such arts education programmes. The Secretariat was repeatedly  encouraged to work intersectorally in youth-related activities such as arts education, reading for all and the  promotion of intercultural dialogue among youth.
2.13 Several delegates underscored the importance of regional strategies in the construction of UNESCO’s  programme. In this respect, the Commission supported the programmes for specific regions and culture areas  including: Focus on the Caribbean, Focus on the Pacific, Priority Africa, Arabia Plan and the newly proposed  initiatives for the Caucasus. In the context of these strategies, numerous delegates also spoke on the importance  of completing the History of Civilizations of Central Asia - in particular Kyrgyzstan - and the General History of  the Caribbean, the General History of Latin America, work on the different aspects of Islamic Culture, which is  in various stages of completion, and follow-up activities envisaged for the dissemination of the General History  of Africa. The Commission recommended for approval by the General Conference the draft resolutions presented  with a view to reintegrating these projects into document 30 C/5. UNESCO’s activities for the International  Decade of Indigenous People were evoked by several speakers and the point was made that UNESCO’s role was  not vigorous enough. One speaker suggested a mid-term evaluation of UNESCO?s programme in this field.
2.14 The Commission examined two items (4.10 and 4.11) directly linked with the Transdisciplinary project:  Towards a culture of peace. In regard to item 4.10, the importance of UNESCO?s contribution and lead role in
25   the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations was emphasized by delegates, as were the “Routes” or  “Roads” programmes to promote intercultural dialogue. In this connection the Commission examined new  proposals, such as the “Ruta del Arte” project in the Andean region and the “Road to Carthage” project. The  delegate of Switzerland suggested the setting up of a working group within the Culture Sector to reflect on issues  related to intercultural dialogue. Some delegates expressed concern that programmes designed to promote inter-  religious dialogue might be misconstrued as not falling into the secular mandate of the Organization. Other  delegates, on the contrary, stressed the importance of religion in intercultural dialogue as an important means of  building a culture of peace. On item 4.11, strong support was expressed in the Commission for declaring slavery  a crime against humanity and for UNESCO to lead a global examination of the root causes of the transatlantic  slave trade with a view to discovering how to prevent such a tragedy from ever re-occurring.
2.15 I should like to recall that within the same debate a series of separate items were also discussed. The  reflections made thereon complemented and enriched the specific remarks concerning the Draft Programme and  Budget. Item 4.13 of the agenda, concerning intellectual works of universal value that have fallen into the public  domain and are regarded as forming part of the common heritage of humanity, gave rise to disagreements. The  delegate of Finland, representing the presidency of the European Union, reported that a working group of its  Member States had called unanimously for the withdrawal of this draft resolution as the proposal appeared to be  legally unworkable and bureaucratically impractical. The Commission decided by vote not to recommend for  adoption a draft resolution submitted in this connection as only one delegation favoured its retention. In regard to  item 4.14 the Commission expressed enthusiasm for the proclamation of 21 March as World Poetry Day, and  many delegates announced plans for activities in their respective countries to promote poetry on that day. I  suggested that the city of Delphi be the host of the first celebration of this day. However, I must report the  reservation expressed by Iceland on account of the celebration of the World Book and Copyright Day scheduled  every year on 23 April. As regards item 4.15 relating to the Arabia Plan, several delegates highlighted the  importance of the proposed programme for the promotion of contemporary literary, artistic and scientific Arab  culture. It was pointed out that such a programme will strengthen UNESCO’s mission of promoting tolerance and  mutual respect between peoples. The Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference approve  the draft resolution (30 C/COM.IV/DR.7) submitted in this connection, in the light of the Director-General’s  comment. In connection with item 7.5, delegates supported continued work towards the adoption of a new  convention concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage and expressed the hope that a draft  convention on this matter could be presented to an upcoming session of the UNESCO General Conference. The  corresponding draft resolution to this effect was revised by a working group. The spirit of consensus in that group  was stressed by several delegates.
2.16 The Commission then examined 26 draft resolutions submitted by Member States concerning Major  Programme III, Cultural development: the heritage and creativity as well as the Transdisciplinary project:  Towards a culture of peace, Unit 3: From interculturality to cultural pluralism, in the light of the Director-  General’s comments, contained in document 30 C/8 COM.IV and taking into account the recommendations by  the Executive Board in document 30 C/6. As to the debates on the transdisciplinary project, I remind you that I  made a detailed presentation last Saturday in the plenary.
2.17 With regard to the draft resolutions with financial implications, after a stimulating debate, the  Commission reached a consensus based on the recommendations of the General Conference contained in  document 30 C/INF.29. The Commission did not retain the proposal by Germany to refer the adoption of these  draft resolutions to the joint session of the Administrative Commission and the programme commissions. The  Commission then examined the recommendations corresponding to the proposed resolutions in the Programme  and Budget of Major Programme III, the Transdisciplinary project: Towards a culture of peace, and to the  proposed resolutions submitted for items 4.1, 4.10, 4.11, 4.13, 4.14, 4.15 and 7.5. The recommendations in  connection with these draft resolutions are reflected in the written report of Commission IV in documents
30 C/64 and 30 C/64 Add. and Corr.
2.18 Before the adoption of these resolutions Germany, supported by Denmark, France, Czech Republic,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom, stressed strong reservations with regard to the juxtaposition of the  concepts of “intercultural dialogue” with “inter-religious dialogue”, emphasizing that the latter does not fall  within UNESCO’s mandate. He proposed that paragraph 05301 of Transdisciplinary project: Towards a culture  of peace be amended to take into account the Executive Board’s decision in this regard at its 155th session. This  proposal was put to the vote and, with 20 delegates voting in favour, 22 against and 16 abstaining, was not  retained by the Commission.
2.19 Debate 3, the Commission devoted two working sessions to consideration of item 4.1: UNESCO in the  twenty-first century. There was general consensus that as a consequence of the report of the World Commission  on Culture and Development, the Stockholm Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for  Development and other related initiatives, culture must clearly play a more central role in UNESCO’s overall
706   programme. To achieve this, intersectoral linkages need to be much more systematically developed and the  distribution of work between the sectors needs to be re-examined and possibly revised. In particular, delegates  expressed the opinion that activities related to archives and to the Memory of the World programme, currently  coming under the Communication, Information and Informatics Sector, and actions for the preservation of  linguistic diversity, currently coming under the Education Sector, should become the responsibility of the Culture  Sector.
2.20 Several delegates suggested the possibility of a complete restructuring of UNESCO’s programme away  from the sectoral approach, towards a different grouping of activities based on the type of action required, such  as “education and training” or “promotion and dissemination”. A suggestion was made that the Delors and Pérez  de Cuéllar reports should be examined together with a view to developing a synthetic approach to the common  issues raised in each of them. By way of identifying “strategic entry points” where UNESCO has a “comparative  advantage”, delegates spoke of a wide range of possibilities, including the further development of UNESCO as  an intellectual clearing house and forum for intercultural policy debate at the highest levels; UNESCO’s  continued relevance in setting international norms and standards of social justice; the responsibility of the  Organization to work for the eradication of poverty, and, in particular, the role of cultural industries and crafts in  this respect; the recognition that youth are the principal stakeholders in the world’s future and thus should be the  principal beneficiaries of UNESCO’s programmes; and the recognition that the Organization needs to strive  harder for the protection and development of indigenous peoples’ cultures and intellectual property rights as a  key part of the effort to protect and ensure the world’s cultural diversity. Delegates pointed out that to achieve  success in any of the above endeavours, the Organization must open up its structures towards greater cooperation  with other agencies of the United Nations family, other intergovernmental organs and representatives of civil  society and encourage the mobilization of local communities.
2.21 Several delegates also pointed out that a major effort needs to be made to increase UNESCO’s visibility  to the public at large and to its principal potential partners. Some delegates observed that the budget of the  Organization would have to be quite radically reallocated to meet these new priorities and new structures. Many  speakers questioned the large proportion of the budget which is now devoted to staff and indirect costs, and  expressed the desire to see a more action- and field-oriented agenda of work. But above all, delegates spoke of  the ethical role of the Organization as its unique contribution to the international community and felt that the  comparative advantage of the Organization lies in a reaffirmation of its original mandate to “build the defences of  peace in the minds of men”, through the promotion of a culture of peace, based on a democratic respect for  cultural diversity.
2.22 The Commission considered draft resolution 30 C/COM.IV/DR.6, which replaced 30 C/COM.I-II-III-  IV-V/DR.1, calling for a heightening of the priority given to culture in UNESCO’s future actions and an increase  in the human and financial resources devoted to this programme, and draft resolution 30 C/COM.II-IIT-IV-  V/DR.2 on the eradication of poverty. The Commission recommends that the General Conference adopt these  two resolutions in extenso as part of the Records of the General Conference.
2.23 The seventh session of the Commission was devoted to Debate 2: Jerusalem and the implementation of
29 C/Resolution 22. A working group presided by myself was established to reach a consensus on the revision of
30 C/COM.IV/DR.8 on Jerusalem and the implementation of 29 C/Resolution 22. The revised draft resolution  invites the Director-General to send an expert on mission to Jerusalem to prepare a report on the needs of the Old  City and the surrounding area with regard to the protection of the environment and the cultural heritage therein.  The expert’s report is to be presented to the Executive Board at its 160th session. The Commission recommends  that the General Conference adopt the revised draft resolution 30 C/COM.IV/DR.8 Rev. proposed by the  working group. In the meeting of the working group the Permanent Delegate of Israel declared that his  participation in this group was aimed to avoid a polemic debate on this issue in the plenary meeting and it should  not be interpreted as implying his intention to give his agreement to the resolution.
2.24 Madam President, I have now finished the presentation of the report of Commission IV. I should like to  take this opportunity to extend once again my appreciation to all those who participated in the Commission’s  work in a spirit of cooperation and goodwill. My thanks go also to all the members of the Bureau of the  Commission for their collaboration as well as to the representatives of the Director-General and his colleagues,  the Secretary of the Commission and his staff for their guidance and assistance. Last but not least, I should like to  thank the interpreters, translators, room clerks and technicians without whom we would not have had any debate!  Thank you for giving me the floor.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr Vassilikos. I appreciate greatly the work you have done and also your oral presentation,  which will facilitate our work. I also highly appreciate the excellent work of the whole Commission and the
25   members of the Secretariat who assisted it, because I know that the going was not very smooth to start with and  that you overcame the difficulties, for which I congratulate and thank you.
3.2 I should like to remind the distinguished delegates that the report in the documents before them is  submitted for consideration in its entirety. I now open the floor for the debate, and the first speaker is the  representative of the United Republic of Tanzania.
4. Mr BAVU (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Madam President. I would like to congratulate the Chairperson of the Commission for his  very eloquent and clear report. With a lot of hesitation, I would like to request your indulgence, Madam  President, if we are now talking about the report of the Commission, by allowing me to propose a very, very  small, but very important amendment to the draft resolution on item 4.11, contained in paragraph 30 on page 18  of the English text. I would like, Madam President, to suggest an addition after the word “Europe”, in the last line  of the paragraph which starts with “Recalling that”, the addition being the words “Arabian peninsula”. This is  mainly because the subsequent paragraph, which starts with “Recognizing”, refers to the “Transatlantic and  Indian Ocean slave trade”, and the Indian Ocean slave trade did, to a large extent, have its base in the Arabian  peninsula. The insertion of additional facts would make this draft resolution more complete. Thank you.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  So, it is proposed that under item 4.11, “The transatlantic slave trade and slavery: a crime against  humanity”, on page 18 of the English version of the main document, the last part of the second preambular  paragraph should be amended. The paragraph would read as follows: “Recalling that, within the framework of  UNESCO?s activities, the question of the slave trade and slavery is the focus of the Slave Route project, to which  the General Conference, at its 27th session, assigned the objective of studying the root causes and the methods of  the slave trade and of highlighting the interactions to which it has given rise between Europe, the Arabian  peninsula, Africa, the Americas, the Caribbean and the rest of humanity”. I see that you agree, Sir.
5.2 Do I find agreement with this proposal? Does anyone object to this amendment? Does anyone second  this amendment? Yes, I can see Haiti seconding the amendment, Benin, Palestine, Mali, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire,  Burkina Faso and others. I think that there is sufficient support. Palestine wishes to speak? I give the floor to the  representative of Palestine.  : (Cned) 33101 Sie al |  Cll Tal uy oF SI GAS J) idl dl] of LS gl BT CLASS Gage 1,53  Sl J le obit 5 Jbl shes of pay «x dogbl of Und [S30 LY 03, GAB Jy> sag  li of S53 of sa 59 SNL LI >Laisl 5 35 Call Lalll 5 cf Liagd 8 LS dnl By wally  Sy dell El Guy 4005 SIN Gl ed SIL, 1551 1
(6) Mr ABDELRAZEK (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. I should simply like to draw your attention to a point in the report that was  ready by the Chairperson of Commission IV concerning Debate 2. I believe he said something that I did not quite  catch, to the effect that the Ambassador of Israel had opposed the decision on Jerusalem. In point of fact, I  understood that the decision had been reached by consensus in Commission IV. I hope that this will be reflected in  the report presented by the Chairperson of Commission IV, that the decision was reached by consensus. Thank  you.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I shall ask the Chairperson to refer us to the exact place in the text. I see the representative  of Israel. Can we first deal with the amendment which was proposed by the representative of the United Republic  of Tanzania? I understand that there is a general consensus on accepting the amendment. Is that so? Yes. I shall  now ask the Chairperson of the Commission to refer us to the page in question.
8.1 M. VASSILIKOS (Grèce), Président de la Commission IV :  La question est abordée à la page 10 de la version anglaise de mon rapport oral (document
30 C/INF.54). Peut-être le représentant de l'Autorité palestinienne souhaiterait-il qu'on lui indique la page  correspondante dans la version française ? Voici ce qui est dit à ce sujet dans le rapport écrit (document
30 C/64) :  (L'orateur poursuit en anglais)
8.2 “Having examined document 30 C/12 and draft resolution 30 C/COM.IV/DR.8 (Egypt, Jordan,  Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Sudan, Tunisia) and Rev., the Commission recommends that the General  Conference decide to adopt in extenso draft resolution 30 C/COM.IV/DR.8 Rev. presented by the Chairperson of  Commission IV and reached by consensus”, I repeat, “by consensus”, for the Records of the General Conference,  Volume 1 (Resolutions), as follows:  “The General Conference,  Recalling the Hague Convention and Protocol for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of  Armed Conflict, the relevant provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 and its Additional  Protocols, the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (1972) and the  inclusion of the Old City of Jerusalem on the World Heritage List and on the List of the World Heritage  in Danger,  Recalling that, in regard to the status of Jerusalem, UNESCO abides by United Nations Security Council  and General Assembly decisions and resolutions and in particular by resolutions 242 (1967), 252
(1968), 267 (1969), 271 (1969), 298 (1971) and 478 (1980) of the Security Council and by resolutions
2253 (ES-V) and 2254 (ES-V), of the United Nations General Assembly,  Concerned at the measures that continue to hamper free access by Palestinians to East Jerusalem and the  Holy Places of the Old City of Jerusalem,  Having considered the report submitted by Professor Léon Pressouyre and transmitted by the Director-  General (30 C/12),    I. Notes that:” and here we came to the part reached by consensus,  (a) “the Old City of Jerusalem is affected” and so on.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I think that is quite clear. I should like to tell the distinguished observer from Palestine that in fact, in the  printed document that we shall be adopting, it is clearly stated “by consensus”, and that is what you wished to  have. Now, the representative of Israel asked to take the floor. You have the floor, Sir.
10. M. GABAY (Israël) :  Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi tout d'abord de remercier le Président de la Commission IV pour  tous les efforts qu'il a déployés afin d'obtenir un accord sur le projet de résolution. Je voudrais simplement  préciser que je ne me suis pas opposé à la résolution et que je me suis borné à ne pas y souscrire. Je n'ai pas  élevé d'objection et je n'ai pas voté contre le texte. En plus de 30 ans, la plénière a adopté un grand nombre de  résolutions dans le même sens. Israël n'a jamais été favorable à aucune, mais a continué à coopérer durant toutes  ces années. Je ne m'associe pas au consensus, mais je ne m'oppose pas au texte. Je crois, Madame la Présidente,  qu'il y a une différence entre les deux attitudes. La résolution a été adoptée, mais il n'y a pas de consensus  puisque je n'y souscris pas. Merci.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, your position is appreciated and understood. Are there any more points to be raised on the report? I  give the floor to the representative of Benin.
12. M. YAÏ (Bénin) :  Madame la Présidente. J'interviendrai au sujet du point 4.11 du rapport oral présenté par le Président  que je félicite d'ailleurs pour la qualité de son travail. Je souhaite signaler une omission, en relation avec ce que  notre collègue de Tanzanie a déclaré. Dans le rapport du Président, il est question du rôle que l'UNESCO devrait  jouer dans une étude mondiale des racines et des causes de la traite transatlantique. Je crois que l'UNESCO  devrait aller plus loin et étudier aussi les conséquences. Il a beaucoup été traité des causes et c'est certes un sujet  qui ne saurait être trop évoqué. Toutefois, les pays qui ont participé à la traite et qui sont ensuite devenus des  puissances impériales ont, de ce fait, influencé d'autres pays qui n'étaient pour rien dans la traite mais qui,  aujourd'hui, sont marqués par ses conséquences. On peut, par exemple, partager une idéologie raciste, anti-Noirs,  sans appartenir à une nation esclavagiste. Il convient donc de se préoccuper des causes mais aussi de procéder à  un examen approfondi des conséquences de la traite, lesquelles ne vont certainement pas dans le sens des idéaux  de l'UNESCO. Je propose donc qu'il soit tenu compte de cette observation. Il ne s'agit peut-être pas d'une  omission car c'est un résumé des travaux qui nous a été présenté, mais il me semble que s'il s'agit réellement d'une  omission, cette omission est importante. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, this is quite a pertinent remark, so we have to consider whether such a change can still be made. I  understand your point, coming as you do from a country which does not carry any guilt in the slave trade, but  which might, nevertheless, be affected by its consequences. I wish to ask the Chairperson of the Commission  whether he thinks that this can be considered or whether we shall foresee it in the future, because any analysis  should in fact take this aspect into account.
14. M. VASSILIKOS (Grèce), Président de la Commission IV :  Madame la Présidente, je me réfère à la page 20 de la version française du rapport écrit de la  Commission, où la formulation employée est la suivante : "... sur la nécessité d'étendre et d'approfondir l'étude de  leur impact sur l'Europe, l'Afrique, les Amériques et le reste du monde". Oui, rien ne s'oppose à ce que l'on utilise  le mot "conséquences".
15. The PRESIDENT:  I understand that this is reflected in the report, as you will see from the second operative paragraph of  the draft resolution contained in paragraph 30 of the Commission’s report, which invites the Director-General,  especially within the framework of the World Conference on Racism and Racial Discrimination, to submit  “updated findings and data, within the framework of the Slave Route project, on the root causes, the methods and  the consequences of the slave trade and slavery”. The following operative paragraph likewise refers to the “need  to broaden and examine in more detail study of their impact on Europe, Africa, the Americas and the rest of the  world”. Does this meet your concern? I give the floor to the representative of Benin.
16. M. YAI (Bénin) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. J'ai insisté surtout pour que mention soit faite des conséquences dans le  corps même du rapport, faute de quoi il y aurait comme un hiatus entre la résolution que nous avons adoptée et le  rapport qui a amené à l'adopter. Il importe à mon sens que nos résolutions soient motivées. Merci, Madame la  Présidente.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, Sir, I understand, your proposal has already been seconded by the representative of Belize. I think  it can be accommodated. I believe there is a consensus on this proposal, that the consequences be mentioned in  the main body of the text. I see no objection. Very well, thank you, Sir. I now give the floor to the representative  of Mauritania.
18. M. OULD KHALIFA (Mauritanie) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais poser une question au Président de la Commission et la  soumettre a la réflexion générale. Comme je l'ai dit il y a deux jours dans ce même contexte, puisqu'il a été  reconnu que l'esclavage constitue un crime contre l'humanité, ne pourrait-on pas, lors de débats ultérieurs sur ce  problème, envisager des réparations au bénéfice de l'Afrique ? D'autres crimes contre l'humanité qui ont été jugés  voici quelques années ont donné lieu à des réparations. L'Afrique a subi durant plusieurs siècles des saignées  successives - au bas mot, 20 millions d'individus. La communauté internationale ne pourrait-elle pas, par esprit  de justice, envisager des réparations, qui ne seraient pas seulement morales, mais aussi matérielles, je dirais  même économiques, sous forme de transferts financiers ou d'investissements visant à aider l'Afrique à se relever ?  Je vous remercie.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Now, before I give the floor to the Chairperson, I should like to give the floor to the representative of  Algeria, who also asked to speak.
20. M. BAGHLI (Algérie) :  Je voudrais d'abord m'associer à cette intervention et ensuite aborder un autre point, celui qui a trait au  patrimoine culturel subaquatique. Puis-je prendre maintenant la parole sur ce sujet ou dois-je attendre la fin du  débat en cours ?
21. The PRESIDENT:  Well, Sir, perhaps you could raise the issue now. We shall deal with the report in its entirety, as I  mentioned at the very beginning, so you might as well speak up now.
22. M. BAGHLI (Algérie) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. J'interviendrai donc sur le point 7.5 concernant le projet de convention  sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique. J'estime qu'il s'agit d'une convention très importante et  nous avons suivi les différentes réunions qui ont eu lieu en vue de résoudre ce problème complexe. Mes
710   observations porteront seulement sur le dernier paragraphe, le paragraphe 4 du projet de résolution proposé, ou 1l  est question "des dommages que pourrait subir le patrimoine culturel”. Je cite le texte, et saisis cette occasion  pour indiquer que nous approuvons, bien sûr, ce terme générique de "patrimoine culturel”, mais dans ce  paragraphe, je ne sais si c'est voulu ou non, le qualificatif "subaquatique” a disparu. Je rappelle qu'à plusieurs  sessions de la Conférence générale, notamment celles de 1993 et 1995, divers pays, dont l'Algérie, et si mes  souvenirs sont bons la Roumanie et le Brésil, avaient cherché à obtenir l'établissement d'un instrument qui vise à  la fois le patrimoine subaquatique et le patrimoine mobilier, je dis bien mobilier, qui se trouve sur terre. La  question n'a jamais été réglée et je regrette que sept années plus tard, on en soit toujours à distinguer entre le  subaquatique et le mobilier, entre le patrimoine immobilier, c'est-à-dire les grands monuments, et le patrimoine  mobilier que constituent, par exemple, les collections des musées ou les collections nationales. Je tenais donc à  attirer l'attention sur une formulation que j'approuve. Merci beaucoup.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Algeria. I take it that you are not making a formal proposition at this  moment, so we can now return to our two amendments, one proposed by Benin and one by the United Republic  of Tanzania. We have consensus on both amendments. I shall now call on the Chairperson of the Commission to  answer the questions raised.
24.1 M. VASSILIKOS (Grèce), Président de la Commission IV :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. En ce qui concerne, tout d'abord, les réparations auxquelles pourraient  prétendre les pays qui ont été victimes de la traite négrière, la question n'a pas été soulevée lors des débats en  commission. C'est la raison pour laquelle je n'en ai pas fait état dans mon rapport. Néanmoins, nous pourrions  peut-être, si vous en êtes d'accord, ajouter maintenant que cette question pourrait être examinée, dans le contexte  pertinent, lors d'une prochaine session.
24.2 S'agissant du projet de convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique, l'Algérie,  comme vous l'avez dit, était présente au moment de son examen en commission et c'est pour éviter précisément  une discussion en plénière que cette formule a été retenue. Il est regrettable que la question n'ait pas été posée en  commission. Il ne me paraît guère approprié de le faire à présent. Je vous remercie.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Now, if I may comment on the first question raised, concerning reparations, I believe really that the  study has to come first and only then the question of reparations. And of course it is an important question and  should be dealt with - not by our Organization but, if I am not mistaken, on the initiative of our Organization,  following the study of the causes and consequences. That seems to be the logical procedure, although it is up to  you as the highest organ of the Organization, to decide. The representative of the United Republic of Tanzania  has the floor.
26. Mr BAVU (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Madam President. I do not know whether I can help, but I have been trying to find a possible  solution to the suggestion which you yourself seem to sympathize with, and that is the question of reparations. If  we look at the second operative paragraph in the draft resolution, on page 18 of the English version of the report,  we see that the Director-General is invited “in this context to cooperate closely in the examination of the various  aspects of the slave trade”. And I believe that these various aspects could include reparations. In other words, we  are not saying at the General Conference that there should be reparations, but if it is an aspect which is  considered to be important, then it can be examined to see the pros and cons.
27. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania for his very good suggestion, because I do  not think that we could go any further now when we are only just launching an in-depth study of the causes and  consequences. So I think that the wording of the paragraph to which he referred should cover this possibility and  the initiative can indeed be taken in the future when we have something to base it on. I now give the floor to the  representative of Bahrain.  (Od) AB) aad! YA  Lo somall wlbado § slr Ly SIT of sal 8,00 pb, will JI 5598 cplall a5ill Lu, Sal  Leal lB] Go 2 D ARABIA poly Leaf Bll olay cml) LUI pas (JEU ie dnl)  po 32 Bly ols Lys BE pd Leds I Gps bhily pull 486 § azljoly gals  (sa 1 S 59 cs BEI lg Loads LAGI Loan) plac) HII 130 305 sll asl
(28) Mr AL-KHAJA (Bahrain) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, to return to item 4.15, I should like to recall the observations of Group IV in the debate  in Commission IV on Arab culture and the Arabia Plan programme. It is essential to emphasize the importance of  this programme and to include it in the list of programmes and plans for implementation to which the Culture  Sector is to devote particular attention. I hope the General Conference will take this decision in the interests of  multiculturalism and for the sake of intercultural dialogue. Thank you.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The observer for Palestine and the representative of Zimbabwe are asking for the floor.  : (Cruel) 33141 aus snd! r.  Glad! €,\0 aid J) ¢ Od! 4 ga Jos sus) ad LS Lai sel of sal c dues Il ss |S  say Logos «32! RFS Js> Ee 30 of Ca oe Lf Laisse wie] Li Ay ya) BIE Leis ds,
3 lb of #1 UT DA cepsoll lag pig doll BLY of § 5,08 28 W Gas bb 5550  DS Yeates ald Lally ol à ARABIA ibis 5,05 of Lala! BLYI ca p LA
(30) Mr ABDELRAZEK (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. I should like to follow my colleague, the representative of Bahrain, in  reverting to item 4.15 on the plan for the development of Arab culture. I sincerely believe that it would be  superficial for us to get into a debate on this matter, especially after the excellent address delivered by Mr Matsuura  at the ceremony inaugurating him as Director-General of UNESCO. Mr Matsuura referred on that occasion to the  benefits of cultural exchange and dialogue between cultures. I should like to ask, is it possible for there to be  cultural exchange and dialogue between cultures in the absence of Arab culture? I believe that Arab culture has an  important role to play in exchange and dialogue with other cultures. I am quite confident, of course, that the  Secretariat will concern itself with this matter, and I therefore propose that the General Conference should ask the  Secretariat to include the Arabia Plan programme in the Programme and Budget for 2000-2001. Thank you.
31. The PRESIDENT:  I understand that these are not objections. These last two statements support the wording which is  presented in the written document, if I understand correctly. The representative of Zimbabwe has the floor.
32. Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):  Thank you, Madam President. I should like to bring you back to the issue of reparations. I am not sure  whether I understood you to have agreed with the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania regarding  the inclusion of the word “reparations” in the paragraph in question. Certainly, Zimbabwe would support the  inclusion of that word in the paragraph, so that when the study is carried out, all aspects of the issue are studied  together, rather than one by one. So we endorse the proposal made by the United Republic of Tanzania. Thank  you, Madam.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I think that the United Republic of Tanzania was happy with the wording as it is. We have “all aspects”  mentioned in that particular paragraph, and I think that meets everyone’s concerns. In my opinion, we have only  two amendments, on which we have already reached consensus, and they are the amendment proposed by Benin  and the amendment proposed by the United Republic of Tanzania, which can be accommodated. I took note that  the Arabia Plan should have support, but I do not think it needs any change in the document. Mr Chairperson,  would you like to comment? I think that we are slowly getting there.
34.1 M. VASSILIKOS (Grece), Président de la Commission IV :  Madame la Présidente, le Plan Arabia est destiné à être financé au moyen de ressources  extrabudgétaires. S'il devait avoir des incidences budgétaires, le projet de résolution dont il a fait l'objet entrerait  dans une catégorie différente, et son adoption serait remise en question. Le texte que nous avons adopté est très  clair sur ce point : le Directeur général y est invité à mettre en œuvre, "en particulier à l'aide de ressources  extrabudgétaires, un programme d'activités de nature interdisciplinaire visant à rapprocher la culture des  populations".
34.2 Certes, à la demande de la délégation de la République arabe syrienne, le paragraphe 34 du rapport écrit  reproduit la déclaration suivante : "Le groupe des Etats arabes insiste pour que le Programme ordinaire contribue,  au cours de l'exercice biennal 2000-2001, à la mise en oeuvre du Plan Arabia en étroite consultation avec le  Secrétariat et avec ce Groupe”. Toutefois, cette déclaration ne reflète que la position de la République arabe  syrienne. Je répète pour ma part que le Plan Arabia ne comporte aucune incidence budgétaire. Dans le cas  contraire, le projet de résolution aurait été déclaré irrecevable au même titre que les autres DR dans le même cas.  Je vous remercie.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:  I understand Sir. But it is necessary to include the last subparagraph of the draft resolution in  paragraph 33 of the report, which “invites the Director-General to submit to the Executive Board at its 159th  session concrete proposals for an interdisciplinary Arabia Plan programme to be carried out during 2000-2001”.
35.2 Can we now consider the whole document in its entirety, with these two amendments that I have  mentioned repeatedly? Can we reach a consensus on the amendment of Benin and the amendment of the United  Republic of Tanzania? Can we now consider that the plenary takes note of the report of Commission IV and  approves the draft resolutions as amended that are proposed therein? It is so decided.  CONCLUSIONS DE LA TABLE RONDE DES MINISTRES DE LA CULTURE SUR LA CULTURE ET LA  CREATIVITE FACE A LA MONDIALISATION  CONCLUSIONS OF THE ROUND TABLE OF MINISTERS OF CULTURE ON CULTURE AND  CREATIVITY IN A GLOBALIZED WORLD  CONCLUSIONES DE LA MESA REDONDA DE MINISTROS DE CULTURA SOBRE “LA CULTURA Y  LA CREATIVIDAD ANTE LA MUNDIALIZACION”  PF3YJIBTATbI PABOTEI KPYT HOTO CTOJIA MHHHCTPOB KYJIBTYPbI HO BOIIPOCY O KYJIBTYPE  H TBOPYECTBE B l'IOBAJIBHOM MHPE  gall dgrlgo 3 EhasVlg ABLE olin AOU 51, 5 9) § pmadiend] BaSUI plod] cle Lich  RT ÉMIS BIE MEI SCE PI Sx lL 4h i
36. THE PRESIDENT:  Now ladies and gentlemen, you also have before you document 30 C/INF.39, which contains the  conclusions of the Round Table of Ministers of Culture on Culture and Creativity in a Globalized World, held on
2 November. The conclusions in the document before you focus more specifically on the theme of cultural  diversity in a globalized world. Are there any comments? We only need to take note of the document, which is  for information. I give the floor to the representative of Turkey.
37. Mr FIRAT (Turkey):  Thank you Madam President. We agree with document 30 C/INF.39 concerning the Round Table of  Ministers of Culture, which was held on 2 November. The Turkish Minister of Culture also participated in this  Round Table which was, I believe, attended by more than 50 Ministers or Vice-Ministers. In his statement to the  Round Table, the Turkish Minister of Culture issued an invitation to the Minister of Culture of Member States of  UNESCO to hold a meeting in Turkey in the year 2001. He invited the General Conference to take note of this  invitation on the part of Turkey. As this was not on the agenda of Commission IV, or covered by document
30 C/INF.39, which only gives the conclusions on this theme, I would like to request that this proposal by the  Turkish Minister of Culture to hold an international ministerial conference on culture in Turkey in the year 2001  be reflected in the verbatim records of this Conference. The subject and practical details of such a conference  will, of course, be decided in consultation with UNESCQO’s appropriate organs and authorities. Thank you very  much.  (Mme Karvelis, Lituanie, prend la présidence)
38. La PRESIDENTE :  Merci, Monsieur le représentant de la Turquie. Y a-t-il d'autres observations ? Puis-je considérer que la  Conférence générale prend note des conclusions de la Table ronde des ministres de la culture ? Il en est ainsi  décidé.
25   ADOPTION DU PROJET DE RESOLUTION 30 C/PLEN/DR.4 : ELECTION D'UN COMMISSAIRE AUX  COMPTES  ADOPTION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION 30 C/PLEN/DR.4: ELECTION OF AN EXTERNAL AUDITOR  ADOPCION DEL PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION 30 C/PLEN/DR.4: ELECCION DE UN AUDITOR  EXTERNO  YTBEPXP/IEHUE IIPOEKTA PF3OJIOIHH 30 C/PLEN/DR 4: BBIBOPbI PEBH3OPA CO CTOPOHBI  rs chu gels SI) IE 5 p/écle/at + 51,1 £9 se sleds!  TIT VIN BE 2 30 C/PLEN/DR. 4: EZ — 44 ET A
39.1 La PRESIDENTE :  Nous allons maintenant examiner le point 11.4 de l'ordre du jour concernant l'élection d'un commissaire  aux comptes. Comme vous le savez, le Comité des candidatures a proposé à la Conférence générale de nommer  Commissaire aux comptes de l'Organisation M. Denis Desautels, Vérificateur général du Canada. Une décision  sur ce point a été prise hier. Le paragraphe 112 (e) du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale spécifie que  la résolution par laquelle la Conférence générale nomme le Commissaire aux comptes précise le montant des  honoraires demandés par celui-ci. Le projet de résolution 30 C/PLEN/DR.4 vous est soumis à cette fin.
39.2 Je voudrais souligner que, comme 1l est indiqué dans le document 30 C/NOM/6/INF.1, ces honoraires  représentent 70 mois-personnes de travail pour l'exercice biennal (180 mois-personnes pour la durée totale du  mandat). Ils incluent les frais de déplacement, les indemnités quotidiennes et autres frais connexes. Les  honoraires dus au titre de tout travail supplémentaire seraient facturés séparément. Pour les deux derniers  exercices biennaux de la période couverte par le prochain mandat, ces taux seraient soumis à la réévaluation  apportée par l'UNESCO aux budgets pertinents.
39.3 Y a-t-il des commentaires ? Je ne vois personne qui demande la parole. Je propose donc que la  Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution 30 C/PLEN/DR 4. Il en est ainsi décidé.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION III : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION III: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  JTOKJIAZT KOMHCCHH III: PE3OJIOIHH H PEKOMEH/TAIHH  lo gilly ool yf 1 BIG Laddl pp 35  BITIR RSE: HERE
40. La PRESIDENTE :  Nous devons à présent examiner le rapport de la Commission III. Les documents pertinents sont le
30 C/63 et le 30 C/63 Add. et Corr. J'invite le Président de la Commission III à présenter le rapport de cette  Commission.
41.1 Mr LUGUIJO (Uganda), Chairperson of Commission III:  Madam President, Mr Director-General, whom I want to congratulate warmly on his appointment, ladies  and gentlemen, before beginning my presentation of the oral report of Commission IT, T would like to point out  to our distinguished delegates that, for reasons of time, I will be presenting to you here a shortened version of the  report. The full version of the oral report of Commission III, including the comments made by delegates  yesterday in the Commission, can be found in document 30 C/INF.53.
41.2 Madam President, Commission III covers UNESCO’s activities in the exact and natural sciences, and  also the human and social sciences. Their coming together, under one major programme, reflects the recognition  that there is an increasing need for real interdisciplinarity in order for societies to meet the challenges of  environment and social development. The joint statement of the Chairpersons of the five intergovernmental  scientific programmes welcomed the deepened interdisciplinary approach gained from cooperation with each  other, and looked forward to further concrete inter-programme planning and action.
41.3 The whole of Major Programme II was considered by Commission III in the light of the follow-up to the  World Conference on Science, which was successfully held in Budapest (Hungary) this year. The fact that this  Conference had been organized to address the natural and the social sciences on an equal footing was highlighted  by the Commission as a significant achievement, also marked by the publication of the first World Social Science  Report. The new commitment to science is now embodied in the two documents approved by the World  Conference on Science; namely, the Declaration on Science and the Use of Scientific Knowledge; and the
714   Science Agenda - Framework for Action. These documents have been recommended by the Commission for  endorsement by the General Conference. Some delegates requested simplified versions of these documents that  would be more accessible to decision-makers and the public at large. Many delegates urged that immediate action  should be taken to implement the recommendations of the Conference. They also requested UNESCO to report to  Member States and participating partners on progress in the follow-up to the World Conference on Science.
41.4 A number of priority areas for the follow-up to the World Conference were highlighted by delegates.  Many stressed that the Declaration and the Framework for Action attached high priority to the promotion of  science education and the strengthening of national capacities. An expanding role for young scientists and the  need for education in science ethics was also emphasized. Numerous delegates also stressed the urgent need to  address gender imbalance in science, calling for the strengthening of the role of women in science and  technology, and for science education for girls. Grave concerns were raised about the “brain drain” that continues  to erode the limited human resources in science and technology of many developing countries.
41.5 Many delegates emphasized the need to revitalize traditional and local knowledge systems. That  notwithstanding, several other delegates acknowledged the importance of investigating more thoroughly the  relation between science and traditional knowledge. A number of delegates requested UNESCO’s assistance, to  enable them to review their present science policies and to design new strategies. Delegates regretted that more  time had not been provided in the Commission for this wide-ranging and highly relevant debate concerning the  World Conference on Science.
41.6 Turning to the basic and engineering sciences, many delegates underlined the continuing importance of  fundamental research as a necessary foundation for the application of science in development. Several speakers  emphasized the importance of reinforcing university science and engineering education and training, with priority  to be given to women and youth. Others requested UNESCO?s assistance to make available low-cost teaching  materials, equipment and books. Many delegates mentioned the importance of university-industry cooperation. In  the contemporary context of increasing globalization and changing work organization, delegates emphasized the  crucial role of innovation and commercialization of research and development. Some delegates expressed their  appreciation of the UNISPAR Programme’s toolkits, with particular reference to the UNISPAR Africa  programme.
41.7 In the fields of physical sciences and mathematics, many delegates expressed support for the World  Mathematical Year 2000 initiative of the International Mathematical Union. Several delegates requested support  for the African Network of Applied Mathematics for Development. Some delegates supported the establishment  in Poland of the International Centre for Dense Magnetized Plasma while others drew attention to the excellent  work of the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics and the importance of UNESCO’s  cooperation with the International Centre for Chemical Studies.
41.8 With regard to the life sciences, several delegates expressed support for the biological sciences and  biotechnology, and especially for efforts being made to upgrade training skills and to disseminate new  knowledge. Other delegates expressed appreciation for the strengthening of specialized networks in  biotechnology through cooperation with established local centres of excellence. Several delegates spoke in  favour of a Regional Centre of Biotechnology for South-East Asia and for the Asia-Pacific International  Molecular Biology Network. UNESCO?s assistance was requested for combating AIDS in southern Africa, and  for intellectual inputs into the World Conference on AIDS. UNESCO’s assistance was also sought for the  renewal of biological equipment and the provision of free scientific reference texts in the biosciences and  biotechnologies.
41.9 Substantial support was given to the World Solar Programme 1996-2005. Many delegates urged  UNESCO to mobilize adequate human and financial resources for its successful implementation. Delegates also  noted that this major developmental initiative created by UNESCO is a priority programme of the United Nations  system, and they requested UNESCO to consult with relevant United Nations agencies to mobilize cooperation.  Delegates expressed the view that UNESCO, through the Global Renewable Energy Education and Training  (GREET) programme, should be the World Solar Programme’s lead agency for capacity-building. Finally, some  delegates called for an evaluation of the World Solar Programme.
41.10 With respect to Subprogramme II.1.2, Advancement, transfer and sharing of knowledge in the social and  human sciences, the Commission recalled that the subprogramme reflects the two preoccupations of enhancing  research capacities and encouraging the flow of documentation and information. Several delegations requested  that priority should be given to the development of the UNESCO Chairs and UNITWIN programme, and to  issues related to science and education policies for formal and non-formal education. Interactive research  approaches and training modules should be developed for women and young scientists, particularly through the
25   UNESCO prizes for architects, the training workshop for urban planners and “City Professionals”, and the  MOST Ph.D. award. The UNESCO prizes and awards should focus on the need for the exchange of data, the role  of women and youth, and the development of intersectoral joint activities with the Education and Science  Sectors.
41.11 On the question of collection and dissemination of information, the International Social Science Journal  was particularly appreciated in terms of its dissemination worldwide in six languages, as was the MOST Clearing  House on best practices for poverty alleviation, social exclusion and indigenous and local knowledge and the  virtual library of the social and human sciences documentation centre.
41.12 Many developing countries emphasized the need to increase their participation in international  cooperation for social sciences and the need to create new information sharing networks in Asia, Africa and the  Arab States. In particular, Cameroon pointed to the need to establish regional financial support and consultation  among African countries. The Byblos Centre was highlighted as an example of a means to service regional needs  for information sharing on the social and human sciences. The idea of a Nobel Prize for the social sciences was  also raised.
41.13 Programme II.2, Sciences, environment and socio-economic development includes, in particular,  UNESCO's five intergovernmental scientific programmes. Speakers voiced strong support for the joint statement  by the Chairpersons of IGCP, THP, IOC, MAB and MOST and its call for integrated approaches to addressing  environmental problems and sustainable development, as this is indispensable for ensuring the relevance of  science for the policy-making process.
41.14 Delegates identified a particular need to step up education, training and capacity-building activities, in  particular in developing countries. Many delegates encouraged the scientific programmes to strengthen further  their regional and subregional networks as well as North-South and South-South sharing of knowledge and  networking. Several delegates called for regular external evaluation for science sector-based programmes,  referring to the good example of the MOST evaluation. Close cooperation between UNESCO and ICSU was  welcomed by a number of speakers.
41.15 The Commission then turned to Subprogramme II.2.1, Earth sciences, earth system management and  natural disaster reduction. A great many speakers voiced their support for the International Geological  Correlation Programme (IGCP). Several delegates referred to the geopark initiative either in a supportive or  critical manner. Others referred to the decision of the Executive Board that the proposal to launch a geoparks  programme will be examined by the Board on the basis of the results of a feasibility study involving IGCP, MAB  and the World Heritage Centre. Delegates from all UNESCO regions expressed keen support for interdisciplinary  activities dealing with “Reducing vulnerability to natural disasters” and “Enhancing disaster preparedness of  communities at risk”. They requested UNESCO to take an active part in the follow-up to the International  Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.
41.16 The Commission then turned to Subprogramme II.2.2, Ecological sciences and the Man and the  Biosphere (MAB) programme. Numerous delegates expressed support for efforts to implement the Seville  Strategy for biosphere reserves and for strengthening biosphere reserves as tools for reconciling conservation and  development. Several delegates requested reinforced support for the MAB programme. Many speakers endorsed  recent and planned actions contributing to the Seville Strategy, including the periodic review and evaluation of  reserves established more than 10 years ago; developing transfrontier biosphere reserves; integrated monitoring  and research; and strengthening cooperation with DIVERSITAS and the Global Taxonomy Initiative of the  Convention on Biological Diversity. Some delegates announced new projects on capacity-building such as the  creation of international centres for research on sustainable development and on biodiversity. Many delegates  expressed support for applying traditional and local knowledge in resource management. They called on MAB,  MOST, CSI and other appropriate programmes to jointly develop interdisciplinary activities on traditional  ecological knowledge.
41.17 Under Subprogramme 11.2.3, Hydrology and water resources development in a vulnerable environment,  strong support was expressed for the International Hydrological Programme (IHP). In stressing that freshwater is  to be one of the main issues of the twenty-first century, several delegates proposed budgetary reinforcement for  the programme. A number of delegates welcomed THP’s holistic point of view on water issues that takes into  account natural and social sciences, education and the ethical dimension. Support was also expressed for the free  flow of scientific hydrometeorological information. Several delegates called for enhancing activities with regard  to water and natural disasters. Others announced the intention to create new water resources centres.
41.18 The Commission then turned to the Environment and Development in Coastal Regions and Small  Islands (CSI) initiative. A large number of delegations expressed their continued strong support for the CSI  approach, which they acknowledged as truly intersectoral. Many speakers, especially from small island  developing States, supported the further development of CSI in view of its contribution to the processes initiated  through the Focus on the Caribbean, the Pacific and Indian Ocean islands events. The interdivisional and  intersectoral follow-up planned for the Pan-African Conference on Sustainable Integrated Coastal Management  was commented upon favourably by many delegates from Africa, as well as Finland.
41.19 The Commission then discussed the activities of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  (IOC). Wide support was expressed for IOC’s programmes and activities. The Commission amply debated the  revision of IOC’s Statutes, the work of IOC regional subsidiary bodies and the need to strengthen the staff of the  two secretariats outside Headquarters. Many delegates considered that the incompressible budget of IOC should  be augmented in the future. Other delegates supported specific IOC activities such as the implementation of the  Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS) and the Floating University Programme. After an extended debate, the  Commission recommended that the General Conference approve the modified Statutes of IOC, with the wording  proposed by the IOC Assembly at its twentieth session. The Commission also noted concerns raised about the  lack of African specialists on the IOC Council.
41.20 With your permission, ladies and gentlemen, I will now report on highlights of the debate covering  Subprogramme 11.2.5, Social transformations and development. This subprogramme, of which the key elements  were raised in the introduction by the Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences, comprises the  intergovernmental social science programme MOST, a special project on cities and the environment, and a  section on poverty alleviation in urban settings. An array of contemporary issues is addressed by the MOST  programme, notably the management of multicultural and multi-ethnic societies, international and rural-urban  migrations, strategies of populations living in remote areas for coping with technological and economic changes  spurred by globalization, and urban management. The ample and positive debate on this programme confirmed  the importance of these themes for Member States in all world regions.
41.21 The Commission hailed the mid-term evaluation of the MOST programme as an important and positive  step which should be the norm rather than the exception in UNESCO’s work as the Organization moves towards  more results-based programming and budgeting. Delegates appreciated the Secretariat’s response to the key  recommendation in the mid-term evaluation report. In this respect delegates supported the conclusion by the  external evaluation team that the programme in the coming two biennia should focus on promoting understanding  of how research results could better nourish the decision-making process. To assist the MOST programme in  continuing to make headway on this issue, the Netherlands announced its intention to host, in cooperation with  Norway, an international conference on social science research and governance from 21 to 22 March 2000.  Delegates expressed their appreciation of the interdisciplinary nature of the MOST programme, both between the  social and natural sciences and within the social science disciplines, since this reflects the reality of many of  today’s contemporary social development problems. The many interventions calling for strengthening the  autonomy and increasing the budget of the social science programme also stressed the need to continue working  in an interdisciplinary manner.
41.22 The Commission gave its backing to a policy that would associate UNESCO’s overhauled statistical  programme and its future-oriented programmes with the social and human sciences programme. This will require  careful and attentive planning for document 31 C/5, as outlined in the intervention by the President of the MOST  Intergovernmental Council, Mr Kenneth Wiltshire, whose comments were widely supported. Many speakers  voiced their approval of the Executive Board decision that the MOST programme should act as the  Organization’s umbrella for research on poverty alleviation.
41.23 The MOST projects on Growing up in cities, the Asia-Pacific Migration Research Network, the  Circumpolar project on coping with globalization, and the revitalization of historic city centres, implemented  with cooperation from the Coastal Regions and Small Islands programme, received particular mention. The  Member States of the Pacific region expressed its support for MOST activities and noted the establishment of  new MOST national liaison committees in Papua New Guinea, Israel and Cape Verde. The MOST Clearing  House was mentioned as a useful means for communicating the programme’s output.
41.24 Madam President, in referring to the special project on Cities: management of social transformations the  delegate from Senegal expressed his hope that the Yeumbeu project would yield specific best practice that could  be of use to peri-urban poverty-stricken areas in other countries. This project was winding down and should  produce material that would effectively demonstrate its utility and impact. A strong reference to the main line of  action, poverty alleviation, was made by the Islamic Republic of Iran to highlight the increasing feminization of
25   poverty and the necessity to support women in attaining autonomy, and consequently to include gender  considerations in the MOST programme as a whole.
41.25 The Libreville Colloquium on Social Sciences in Africa, which was organized in June of this year on the  initiative of France and which sought to identify ways of strengthening social science research and teaching for  African scholars received particular mention. It was suggested that a sister colloquium would be very useful for  the Arab States. In summary, distinguished delegates, it is fair to report that there is strong support for the social  and human sciences programme as it moves to tackle contemporary social problems in the coming biennium.
41.26 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission then took up Programme II.3, Philosophy,  ethics and human sciences, including agenda item 7.1 on the agenda about the Universal Declaration on the  Human Genome and Human Rights. The Commission welcomed the reintegration of the philosophy programme  into the Social and Human Sciences Sector, and expressed pleasure at the renewed emphasis given to human  sciences such as history and linguistics. It also expressed its expectation that philosophy will be able to play a  catalytic role in enabling the disciplines of philosophy, human and social sciences and natural sciences to work  together in a transdisciplinary manner.
41.27 The ethical mandate of the Organization was recalled by virtually every speaker. Many delegates stated  that UNESCO should give greater emphasis to monitoring the changes in ethical values through education in this  age of globalization. Several delegations expressed support for the Universal Ethics project. Cultural diversity  should be the key consideration in the further elaboration of the project. The importance of cooperation not only  with NGOs, but also with universities and research institutes, was highlighted. Several delegates expressed  particular pleasure in seeing philosophy applied in the practical concerns of everyday life, and stressed that it  should be made more accessible. The importance of research and teaching in philosophy was supported, in  particular, by the network of UNESCO Chairs in philosophy.
41.28 Ladies and gentlemen, with respect to item 7.1 on the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and  Human Rights, general support was expressed for the importance of pursuing the recommendations contained in  the Universal Declaration. A majority of delegates mentioned the actions of the International Bioethics  Committee (IBC) and the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology  (COMEST), as pertinent responses to pressing problems generated by the rapid advancement of science, and to  UNESCO's role in promoting ethical reflection. Delegates expressed their wish to see the ethics, science and  technology programme address other key areas such as the ethical implications of animal and vegetal  biotechnologies.
41.29 Many speakers expressed concern over the number and timing of the meetings of IBC and the  intergovernmental group of experts. Delegates felt that it was not yet opportune to prepare a world report on  bioethics, nor to hold a third world summit of national bioethics committees, and cautioned against overlap.
41.30 In referring to COMEST, Member States voiced their support for the expansion of its range of interests,  especially to the ethics of communication. Several speakers underlined the importance for decision-makers to  consult with an expert body on ethical principles before any decision is taken that may modify the human  environment. They also pointed out that it was important for COMEST to work in cooperation with existing  specialized scientific networks to avoid duplication. In this connection, delegates said that they wished to see a  set of ethical principles developed that should refer to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, taking  into account the cultural diversity of societies. Several delegates expressed concern about the limited time  available to study in detail the general orientation and guidelines for implementing the Universal Declaration.  Finally, the Commission adopted the guidelines in document 30 C/26 Add. on the implementation of the  Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights.
41.31 Finally, on item 4.1, our Commission discussed the issues facing UNESCO in the twenty-first century.  Delegates warmly welcomed this opportunity to give voice to their views of UNESCO’s main challenges for the  future, but regretted the severe time constraints to which this debate was subjected. Many recognized that  UNESCO must sharpen its vision. Mention was made of UNESCO’s unique role as a “laboratory of ideas”.  Referring to the process of United Nations reform, many delegates stressed the need to enhance the visibility of  UNESCO’s action by optimizing its unique comparative advantage as a multifaceted entity within the United  Nations system. Several delegates called for the continuation of UNESCQO’s sectoral structure, with intersectoral  collaboration as the norm. Delegates indicated different models for achieving this “integration and rediscovery of  the intellectual community”. The need for a more action-oriented approach, delivered in the field, was also  underlined. Several delegates called for increased transparency and efficiency.
41.32 The Commission considered that the follow-up to the World Conference on Science should shape the  process of developing a prospective vision for UNESCO in the twenty-first century. It identified a number of  themes that should be addressed, as follows: the fight against poverty, in all its forms, in both developing and  industrialized countries; science education, especially with a view to increasing the capacity for basic research,  with specific attention to the training of women and girls; a gender perspective to support the integration of  women in the various fields of science and technology, as well as in social and human sciences; the need for a  future generations approach, with a focus on children’s perspectives, as they are the most vulnerable victims of  war and poverty; environment and sustainable development, with particular attention to natural disaster  prevention, climate change and the need to integrate ecological and economic perspectives, sustainable socio-  economic development being envisioned as a shared goal for the five intergovernmental scientific programmes;  promotion of cultural diversity by supporting local responses to globalization; support for the elaboration of an  international ethical framework for the application of scientific results in a manner which will preserve human  rights and human integrity, and also alert decision-makers to the risks associated with excessive knowledge  privatization and the brain drain; and lastly, access to and means of communication of scientific information. It is  primordial to develop an innovative strategy using informatics to bridge the widening gap between countries.
41.33 This concludes the oral report of the Commission, but Madam President, there are so many delegates  and staff within the Secretariat, the technical staff, the interpreters, who have put their energy and integrity into  this report. I want to thank all of them, and thank you for your attention.  (Ms Moserova resumes the Chair)
42. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr Lugujjo. I wish to congratulate you on the excellent work you have accomplished  together with the other members of the Commission and with the help of the Secretariat. I appreciate the effort  you have put into the preparation of this report. I remind delegates that the report, the printed document before  them, is submitted for their consideration in its entirety. And I now open the floor for members who wish to make  comments in addition to those made this morning. I give the floor to the representative of Senegal.
43.1 M. PAPA GOUMBA LO (Sénégal) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je remercie le Président de la Commission III pour la clarté de son  exposé et la fidélité de son rapport, auquel j'aimerais néanmoins proposer une légère modification. En effet, le  Sénégal a présenté une demande concernant la création d'une chaire UNESCO en sciences de la terre qui serait  au carrefour de trois programmes prioritaires de l'UNESCO - coopération interuniversitaire dans le domaine des  sciences de l'ingénieur, gestion des ressources en eau dans un environnement vulnérable et gestion du système  terrestre en vue de réduire la vulnérabilité aux catastrophes naturelles. D'autre part, la formation des ingénieurs  de la sous-région Afrique est actuellement assurée par un seul institut, situé à Dakar et pris entièrement en charge  par le Sénégal, qui forme des étudiants du Sénégal, mais aussi du Gabon, du Tchad et du Congo. Nous avions  demandé par écrit que cet institut soit appuyé par la création d'une chaire UNESCO, mais j'ai l'impression que la  longueur du rapport a dû faire que le Président a omis d'en parler.
43.2 Je propose donc que dans le paragraphe du rapport oral où il est dit que "plusieurs intervenants ont  insisté sur le fait qu'il importait de renforcer l'enseignement et la formation universitaires dans les domaines de la  science et de l'ingénierie”, au bas de la page 2 dans la version française, il soit simplement fait mention des  chaires UNESCO, et notamment de la création à Dakar d'une chaire UNESCO en sciences de la terre. Cette  proposition avait été appuyée en commission par le Burkina Faso, le Niger et de nombreux autres pays de la  sous-région. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
44. The PRESIDENT:  I ask distinguished delegates to refer not to the oral presentation but to the relevant pages in the printed  document, 30 C/63 and Add. and Corr., because that is what we shall be adopting or amending. The  representative of Zimbabwe has the floor to be followed by that of Tonga.
45. Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):  Madam President. First of all I would like to thank all the Member States who have supported draft  resolution 21 on the World Solar Programme. As I speak, I note that frve more members have expressed support  for the programme. I would also like to thank Commission IIT for the manner in which they handled the  programme. It is a very important programme and I think this emerged clearly from the way the debate went in  the Commission. I have a small point to raise: considering the fact that the 2000-2001 biennium is the first time  the World Solar Programme will be receiving funds from UNESCO, and that these are the funds that are actually  going to launch the programme, we hope that the proposed evaluation will only be carried out after the
25   programme has been given reasonable funding and reasonable time for implementation. It would be unfortunate  if it was evaluated to its detriment. Thank you, Madam President.
46. The PRESIDENT:  The next delegate to take the floor is the representative of Tonga, who will be followed by that of Belize  and then by that of Burkina Faso.
47.1 Mr BLOOMFIELD (Tonga):  Thank you, Madam President. My delegation would like to extend its appreciation to the Chairperson of  Commission III and his staff for their excellent work. I would like, Madam President, to refer to document
30 C/63, item 6.7 relating to the revised Statutes of IOC. I speak on behalf of 16 Pacific island States, and  possibly New Zealand. I know that Australia is with us. I also know that it is very relevant to all coastal States  and nations of the world: small coastal nations, the Caribbean island States and the small island States of the  Indian Ocean. This, Madam President, is a subject that is part and parcel of our life - it is relevant to us all.
47.2 I would like to refer to a discussion I had with a member of the IOC Secretariat today during which we  came to a conclusion to take this path in the revised Statutes. I therefore think it is preferable to include the  marine processes of coastal areas and oceans. Countries involved with the coastal areas are often small islands  and marine processes have a vital impact on their livelihoods. We have tried to make an improvement to the text  adopted by the Legal Committee in document 30 C/77, Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, and to see how marine  processes should be incorporated into this concept. The text should cover both ocean and coastal areas involved  with marine processes. I think, Madam President, this is a very satisfactory compromise. We would therefore like  to amend the text adopted by the IOC Assembly and Commission III because coastal areas include coastal lands,  human settlements, peoples and so on and the study of sustainable development requires an interdisciplinary and  intersectoral approach. Such a holistic and integrated approach typically includes the natural sciences, especially  terrestrial ones, the social sciences, culture, and so forth. In this work oceanographers and marine scientists can  contribute in their own sphere, which concerns areas further out from the island coasts, the deep sea. I think the  compromise is excellent because those countries that cannot afford research into the ocean can benefit from the  studies of coastal marine processes available to them. And those, like big countries, who can afford the necessary  ships, can deal with the ocean. So we would like, Madam President, to include the marine processes of coastal  areas as well as those of the oceans.
47.3 I know it is a subject difficult to understand but I have tried to explain both sides of the issue, as it  relates to coastal areas and to the oceans. As small island developing States consist of coastal areas in their  entirety, the need for an interdisciplinary, intersectoral and holistic integrated approach is of even more crucial  importance. I would now like to read out the amendments I propose, which concern Article 2, paragraphs 1 and
2, of the Revised Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission in document 30 C/77. I propose  that the said paragraphs read as follows:  “l. The purpose of the Commission is to promote international cooperation and to coordinate  programmes in research, services and capacity-building, in order to learn more about the nature,  resources and marine processes of coastal areas and oceans and to apply that knowledge for the  improvement of management, sustainable development, the protection of the marine environment, and  the decision-making processes of its Member States.”  “2. The Commission will collaborate with international organizations concerned with the work of the  Commission, and specially with those organizations of the United Nations system which are willing and  prepared to contribute to the purpose and functions of the Commission and/or to seek advice and  cooperation in the field of scientific research on marine processes of coastal areas and oceans, related  services and capacity-building.”
48. The PRESIDENT:  I have a number of speakers on my list and should like to know who wishes to speak on the amendment  proposed by Tonga. However, I should first like to give the floor to the Chairperson of the Commission.
49, Mr LUGUIJO (Uganda), Chairperson of Commission III:  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my oral report is a reflection of what was discussed in  Commission III. With respect to the Tongan proposal I have to inform you that Tonga has not had detailed  discussions with any of the IOC hierarchy, although a few minutes ago we were ready to believe that there had  been a very thorough discussion and a consensus. So when you take the floor, you have to bear in mind that such  consultations have not taken place. Secondly, when we were debating this issue of the Statutes, a number of  delegates took the floor, and we were informed that the IOC Assembly is made up of experts who possess great
720   technical expertise and who are very democratic and open to suggestions. This is the framework in which this  item was debated. We were advised that the term “marine processes” was rather restrictive, because there are also  other processes such as the ecological process and the chemical processes, so we agreed that the term “marine  processes” should be deleted, so as to preserve the integrity of IOC and not restrict the research and development  that goes on there and that is envisaged within their plans. These are the few words I wanted to put to the floor so  that when you start discussing this you fully understand the situation. Thank you for your attention.
50. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairperson of the Commission. This is evidently a difficult question to resolve. We shall  hear the other speakers and if we cannot reach a consensus, I will have to put the matter to the vote. I give the  floor to the representative of Belize.
51.1 Mr TOURÉ (Belize):  Thank you Madam President. The first thing I would like to do is to applaud the work of Commission IIT  for I participated in most though not all its deliberations. And I would like to applaud the Chairperson from  Uganda, who ably handled a number of very difficult matters. That is the good news. Let me now get to the bad  news. The bad news, Madam President, is that there seems to be an issue underlying this whole debate that  unfortunately I am going to reveal as I see it. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, if I am  correct, has not been signed by several major countries that are members of IOC. Professor Su Jilan of IOC, in  his presentation to Commission III, explained very well that IOC is taking on more and more responsibility. In  fact, in paragraph 9 of his presentation, he mentioned that IOC co-sponsors major international programmes with  other organizations such as WMO, UNEP, ICSU, the World Climate Research Programme, the Global Ocean  Ecosystem Analysis Programme. Within the United Nations system, IOC chairs and provides a secretariat for a  subcommittee on the United Nations Administrative Coordination Committee for ocean and coastal zones and  coordinates nine United Nations agencies, the World Bank and the two Secretariats of the Conventions on  climate change and biodiversity. The Chairperson also mentioned in paragraph 14 that, in IOC, coastal States are  much more a priority for developing Member States than for developed Member States, and he mentioned that,  from the legal point of view, several countries had reservations about including the term “coastal areas” since it is  a moot term in the United Nations law of the sea.
51.2 This is the background to my remarks. It seems to me that the issue is whether or not a Member State or  Member States of IOC, who in the opinion of some hold undue power over that organization may not necessarily  subscribe to the high and lofty principles of this Organization, which is in effect the mother or father of IOC. If  such an organization can expand its remit, expand its control, expand its power over areas that are very important  to all of us - and when I say all of us I mean States from Bangladesh to Belize, island States as well as coastal  States, that are very much affected by the consequences of climate change and a number of other effects of  industrialization, globalization, which not only did we not participate in but, as an earlier debate mentioned, we  have been affected by some of the consequences of this untimely type of development. Madam President, what I  am trying to say is that the real issue here is whether or not we will allow an area of control which is very  important to our survival to be now put in the hands of an organization which, as has already been pointed out,  may not necessarily be representative of many of our regions and countries, particularly at the higher levels of  decision-making. Now this not to impugn any of the high scientific goals of IOC. We all want to see more  research. We all want to see more understanding. A lot of us would also like to begin to deal with comprehensive  disaster management and with what the Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change says, the harsh decisions  that we need to make. Do we need to retreat, do we need to accommodate, or do we need to protect?
51.3 As a marine scientist myself I can say that marine scientists do not know it all. We are afraid that IOC,  whose main remit is the marine sciences, is, as I pointed out earlier, not because they are bad people or anything,  simply protecting its interests. Larger countries are on that Commission and they are, in the opinion of some of  us, having undue influence over areas that are crucial to our sustainable development and, I might say, to our  survival.
514 Now I go to specifically support the intentions of my colleague from Tonga. His words may not  necessarily be totally approved by the lawyers and the marine scientists and the technology people, but I support  what he is trying to say. He is trying to say that the marine area is our lifeline. If we need to look at the coastal  areas and if we need to turn this work over to an organization whose remit is the oceanographic area but which  includes at least some countries that have not even subscribed to some of the United Nations mandates that have  been put forward in terms of the law of the sea, how can we trust them to look after our interests? We are small  island States, small coastal developing States. We are trying to say that we do not impugn any of the scientific  objectives which are high and lofty - but our survival is at stake here. At a minimum, we should go along with the  proposal of Tonga. If we find that proposal so obnoxious, if we find that proposal so debilitating to the high  science of the developed countries, then at least consider the last part of paragraph 14 of the intervention by the  Chairperson of IOC, when he himself said “however, if that would be considered inappropriate”, meaning the
25   fact that the marine areas would be thrown out and all of a sudden IOC would have ocean and coastal areas. In  those circumstances - I am reading again from his speech - and considering that the Statutes were approved  unanimously by our Member States, we would wish to have an explanation for the suggested changes, and we  would like to have the opportunity for the Commission to react to the changes proposed. He ends by saying, and  this is what I would like to emphasize, “even if that means postponing the final approval of the Statutes by two or  more years”.
51.5 Now, Madam President, I want to go back to the text of my written presentation in the Commission,  where we emphasize why we think that Belize, though small, has something to say about marine processes in  these areas. We emphasize, Madam President, that UNESCO’s activities in the area of hydrology and water  resources development are extremely important to Belize, as evidenced by the establishment of a national marine  research centre in 1994. Belize understands the vital linkage between environment and sustainable coastal marine  development. Let me let that sink in. We intentionally use the language “coastal marine development”. As a  marine and coastal scientist, it is too harsh to say that many of the people who come to this field have a terrestrial  perspective, so when we talk about coastal areas, unfortunately they all think of the terrestrial aspects. If an  organization whose remit is marine science is to take over our coastal management, it may itself be caught up in  the same way and may not be representative of interests that are crucial to us.
51.6 We continued the Belize statement by saying that this commitment is reflected in Belize’s recent  membership in the Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Programme, or CARICOM, which is a regional  network of laboratories and research institutions from over 20 nations in the subregion and its purpose is to study  and document the intricate connections between coral reefs, sea grasses and mangrove forests. Accordingly,  Belize applauded UNESCO’s environment and development in coastal regions and small islands subprogramme,  as well as the IOC’s Caribbean subcommission, IOCARIBE, in their support of CARICOM, which is well  documented in a recent SCI publication. We close, Madam President, and we will close right now, with the same  emphasis. We would wish to bring to the attention of you and this august body Belize’s support for the further  strengthening of linkages between UNESCO’s many science activities and for the linking of these activities to  other United Nations mandates and conventions. But it is not only UNCLOS: we in particular would like to refer  to the review and appraisal of the programme of action for the sustainable development of small island  developing States.
51.7 One of the major conventions of the decade seems to have been forgotten in all of our conferences. We  reminded the conference in Hungary about that. We would like to remind you further: in September, two months  ago, a major review was carried out of the SIDS POA. It was presented to the special session called by the  General Assembly of the United Nations for that special purpose. This global agenda for small island developing  States, Madam President, which emerged from the 1994 Barbados Programme of Action, is unique in that it  represents the Caribbean’s first but not last contribution to the international community’s growing list of  commitments and agreements. I end this intervention by reiterating the six priority areas that have arisen from the  SIDS POA review: the first, adapting to climate change and rising sea levels; the second, improving preparedness  for and recovery from natural and environmental disasters; the third, preventing worsening shortages of fresh  water as demand grows; the fourth - and very pertinent to our discussions right now - protecting coastal  ecosystems and coral reefs from pollution and over-fishing; the fifth, developing solar and renewable energy to  lessen dependence on expensive imported oil, and the last, and very important to countries like Belize, managing  tourism growth to protect the environment and cultural diversity.
51.8 I close, Madam President, by saying that I endorse the intentions and the words of the representative of  Tonga. If they have to be changed to suit the lawyers, no problem, but I have to say that we support their  intention to protect their sustainable survival in the twenty-first century. Thank you.
52. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Belize. I should like to ask the speakers to try to make their contributions as  concise as possible because there are still many speakers on the list. I now call on the representative of Burkina  Faso.
53. M. SOME (Burkina Faso) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Burkina Faso souhaite exprimer sa satisfaction au Président pour  l'excellent rapport qu'il a présenté et demande qu'à la page 3 du rapport oral qui figure dans le document
30 C/INF.53, il soit précisé que le réseau africain de mathématiques appliquées est actuellement coordonné par le  Burkina Faso. Il ne s'agit pas là d'un amendement. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
54. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The representative of Malaysia now has the floor.
55. Mr MUKHTAR (Malaysia):  Thank you, Madam President. We note the view of the Chairperson on the proposal made by Tonga.  However, we must also recognize that not all countries had the opportunity to attend the IOC Assembly which  was held a few months ago. In our view, we should not close the door to them. After listening carefully to the  views of Tonga and Belize we would like to state that we subscribe to their views and we strongly support the  proposal made by Tonga. Thank you.
56. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Sir, for the clarity and brevity of your statement. We have an amendment proposed that has  already been supported by three further speakers. The representative of Barbados has the floor.
57. Ms CUMMINS (Barbados):  Thank you, Madam President. I had not originally put up my plaque to discuss this item, but wanted to  refer to another item under the report. However, I should point out that Barbados does support the views  expressed by Tonga and it is of interest to note the report given by Belize. Thank you.
58. The PRESIDENT:  The next speaker is the representative of Germany. Do you wish to address the point that we are just  discussing? I see you do; you have the floor.
59. Mr SCHOFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. I have to confess I feel somewhat lost. This is the fifth in-depth debate on  the same issue, on only two words: “marine processes”. I would like to say that Germany shares the concerns  expressed by Tonga, but we do not feel in a position to support the amendment; we feel that this amendment is  the wrong instrument for the right purpose. After the IOC Assembly discussed it and after the Executive Board of  UNESCO discussed it, we tried in the Legal Committee, to reconcile these two wordings, but as we were  unwilling to enter into any substantive debate, we deliberately left it to Commission III, where it was debated to  the full, and I fully share the view of the Chairperson of Commission III, Mr Lugujjo, that we should not reopen  the debate, as all the opinions have been expressed there. We support the proposal as adopted by Commission III  and would not like to reopen the debate here. Again, we share the concerns and we would like to invite all those  who also share these concerns to bring this in the clearest way possible to the attention of the next IOC  Assembly. I think that would be the appropriate place to discuss the situation of small countries vis-a-vis big  countries, but it should not be a hidden agenda connected to two words that obviously create misunderstandings,  and it would not help a lot if they were included. Thank you.
60. The PRESIDENT:  I take note of what the representative of Germany said, but the debate is already open. An amendment  was made and everyone has the right to react to it, as you have done. I shall now call on the representative of  Argentina.
(61.1) Mr GONZALEZ (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. In any case, we consider it regrettable, most regrettable, that an attempt is  being made to reopen a debate on a question that, far from being overlooked, was debated at length in  Commission III. I should therefore like to extend my warmest thanks to the Chairperson of the Commission, the  distinguished representative of Uganda, who has rendered a fair account of the debate held in that Commission,  providing yet more evidence of his able chairmanship.
(61.2) Since the debate on this question has been reopened - or an attempt has been made to reopen it - we must  once again take the floor to state the two main reasons why we are supporting the revised Statutes of IOC approved  by Commission III, namely the text contained in document 30 C/63 Add., in particular Article 2 of the Statutes.  They are the following: firstly, as you are aware, Madam President, the Statutes of IOC are the result of a very  lengthy process, going back five years and culminating in their approval by the 20th session of the IOC Assembly.  The IOC Assembly is not a coffee-club for three or four experts but a body consisting of all of UNESCO’s Member  States plus some States that are not members of UNESCO. In other words, the representatives sitting behind the  name-plates of Argentina, Belize or Tonga are the same people who three months ago sat, or could have sat,  together to express their opinions on this matter. Yet no reservations whatsoever were expressed at that time. The  work carried out three years ago was approved unanimously by the IOC Assembly. That is why I find it very hard  to understand the surprise expressed by some delegates here at some of the conclusions of the IOC Assembly.
(61.3) The second reason - and a very important one for our debate - is that, from the technical and scientific  viewpoint, keeping the phrase “the nature and resources of the ocean and coastal areas” in the article on the  purpose of IOC not only does not harm the so-called island or archipelago States but is extremely beneficial to  them since it enables the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission to implement fully the programmes that it  is conducting on the integrated management of coastal areas, programmes that benefit all the Member States. The  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission has demonstrated how efficiently it runs those programmes. We  therefore find it astonishing that the very States that benefit most from these programmes should now be saying that  IOC cannot execute them efficiently or that the Commission’s capacities in this area should be limited. The truth of  the matter is that, if terms altering the scope of that article are introduced, the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission’s powers would be curtailed. That is a fact.
(61.4) Finally, with respect to the odd remarks about the Convention on the Law of the Sea or the way in which  those Statutes affect States’ rights, I should like to draw the Member States’ attention to Article 3, paragraph 5,  where it is stipulated that nothing in the Statutes shall “imply the adoption of a position by the Commission  regarding the nature or extent of the jurisdiction of coastal States in general or of any coastal State in particular”. In  other words, those Statutes do not alter the political positions taken by States in terms of the law of the sea. For all  these reasons, Madam President, and in particular the two I have mentioned, I should like to say that we support  the draft Statutes in the form in which they were presented by Commission III, which are word for word those that  were approved by the Assembly of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the governing body of an  intergovernmental international organization. Thank you.
62. The PRESIDENT:  We have here two proposals which are in discord, so we may eventually have to vote. I shall read out the  list of speakers and ask you again for brevity. We have Canada, Costa Rica, Haiti, Mexico, United Republic of
724   Tanzania, Russian Federation, Chile, Guatemala, Georgia and Tonga. Does the representative of Tonga wish to  speak on a point of order?
63. Mr BLOOMFIELD (Tonga):  Yes, Madam President. With due respect to the speaker from Argentina, the Pacific islands have tried  their best to serve as active members, but we have hardly any time, so Tonga was not at all at the last meeting.  Thank you, Madam President.
64. The PRESIDENT:  I think I understand the situation. We took note of what you said, and let us go through the speakers’ list,  which I shall now close, and if we do not come to a consensus I shall put the matter to the vote. The  representative of Canada has the floor now, to be followed by Costa Rica.
65. Mr CONLEY (Canada):  Thank you, Madam President. I am, like other delegates, dismayed and concerned that this issue has  come up once again. We have exhaustively discussed this issue and, to be very brief, we support what has been  said by Argentina. We are in sympathy with the concerns expressed by Belize and Tonga, but Commission III  took a decision after extensive discussion, as the Chairperson of Commission III explained, and we continue to  support the existing decisions made by Commission III. Thank you.
66. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Canada. I now call on the representative of Costa Rica, to be followed by  Haiti.
(67) Ms LEIVA DE BILLAULT (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. Group DOSS-2 of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission, well known to the delegates present here, worked very conscientiously on the drafting of the IOC  Statutes. During that process, the debates were open to all delegations. The delegation of Costa Rica therefore feels  that it is unacceptable to include the terms that certain delegates in this room want included. It would mean taking  away some of I0C’s responsibilities, even though it has always discharged them to the full. We therefore support  the remarks made by the distinguished delegate of Argentina. Thank you very much, Madam President.
68. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam. I now call the representative of Haiti, to be followed by Mexico.
69. M. CHARLES (Haiti) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je m'étonne que deux mots - "processus marins” - fassent à ce point  problème. Je regrette de ne pas être d'accord avec mes chers amis du Canada et d'autres Etats membres, mais en  quoi le maintien de ces deux mots, que l'on se propose de biffer, ou de manière plus générale l'amendement des  Tonga, pourraient-ils nuire à la COI ? Voilà la question qu'il conviendrait de se poser. Si ce maintien n'a  concrètement aucune conséquence négative et sert l'intérêt des petites Îles, mieux vaut à consentir. Pour nous,  petites îles, les problèmes côtiers représentent en effet un enjeu capital. Sans doute les pays riches, dotés d'un  immense territoire comptant des dizaines de milliers de kilomètres de côtes, ne s'inquiètent-ils guère des  problèmes affectant leur littoral sur deux ou trois kilomètres seulement, mais pour nous petites Îles, résoudre de  tels problèmes présente une importance vitale. Or, ces problèmes ne sont pas toujours indépendants des  problèmes rencontrés en haute mer. On me dit qu'il risque d'y avoir double emploi, mais bénéficier, pour les  processus marins également, de l'appui de la COI, dont nous savons tous le poids de ses actions, de ses  initiatives, représente un atout supplémentaire dont nous aurions tort de nous priver. On me dit aussi que la  question peut être renvoyée a la prochaine assemblée de la COI, mais si cet aspect est écarté dès l'adoption de ses  statuts révisés, il n'y a plus lieu qu'elle se penche sur la question. Il m'apparaît donc important de maintenir la  mention des processus marins dans le texte de ces statuts. Je le répète, l'équilibre écologique, l'équilibre de  l'environnement, de la faune et de la flore et des ressources côtières revêt pour nous une importance capitale.  C'est la raison pour laquelle Haïti s'associe à l'amendement des Tonga. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
70. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Haiti. And again, I plead for brevity and clarity. I now give the floor to the  representative of Mexico, to be followed by the United Republic of Tanzania.
(71) Ms VALDES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. I shall be brief, as you asked, but I must nonetheless congratulate the  Chairperson of Commission III on the quality of his report. The delegation of Mexico took part in the  Commission’s proceedings and, at the time, supported the approval of the Statutes exactly as they were presented  by the IOC Assembly. Therefore my delegation agrees with the distinguished delegate of Argentina that we should  keep the text as approved by the Commission. Thank you very much, Madam President.
72. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania, to be followed  by the Russian Federation.
73. Mr SHEYA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Madam President, it must have been a misunderstanding. Tanzania wanted to contribute to another  debate. Thank you.
74. The PRESIDENT:  I have taken note of that, Sir. The Russian Federation is next on the list. Does the representative wish to  speak on this particular issue?
75. I'-a OP/DKOHHKH/13E (Poccuiickas Denepams):  Cmacn6o r-xa [Ipencemarens. 51 rpexue Bcero xoren Obl mo3apasuth IIpenceraTersa ¢ mpekpacHbIM  nokiaaaom o pabore III Komnccnn H TONHOCTBIO MONVIEPKATB EFO BbICTYILICHHE B OTHOIIEHHH BOIPOCA,  KOTOPBIA MOJHAT celiac. MbI XOTEJIH Obl TAKKE MOJITHOCTBIO MOANKCATHCS MO/ BbICTYILICHHEM IpeACTABHTETA  Aprentunsl, KaHabr H BCEX TeX, KTO CHHTAËT, YTO TEKCT MEpeCMOTpeHHOoro VcTaBa HEOOXOAHMO COXPAHHTB B  TOM peakIHH, KOTOpas Obuta mpHHaTa Ha Accamônee MOK. Cnacn6o.
(75) Mr ORDJONIKIDZE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. I should first of all like to congratulate the Chairperson for his fine report  on the work of Commission III and to express full support for his statement concerning the issue that has now been  raised. We also fully subscribe to the statements by the delegates of Argentina and Canada and all those who  consider that the text of the revised Statutes must be retained with the wording as adopted at the IOC Assembly.  Thank you.
76. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now call on the representative of Chile, to be followed by Guatemala.
(77) Mr FERNANDEZ (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. May I first thank the Chairperson of Commission III for his  very clear report on this subject. There are two issues at stake, one procedural and the other of substance. As to  procedure, my delegation believes that the text of the revised IOC Statutes should be maintained as approved by  the IOC Assembly at its 20th session, since its competence 1s beyond all doubt and 1t consists of experts who  approved the text after a long and exhaustive debate, taking into account all of the legitimate interests and striking a  balance between them. We therefore believe that to reopen this debate on the final day, when the report of  Commission III is to be adopted, would in a sense undermine the important work done by the IOC Assembly and  IOC itself, whose admirable work should not be interfered with. As to the issue of substance, we think that the  wording of Article 2, as it 1s set out in document 30 C/63 Add., perfectly satisfies the interests of the countries that  have backed the amendment tabled by Tonga, and it would therefore be unnecessary to amend or qualify the text.  Instead of reopening a technical debate that has already been closed, we insist that the text be adopted as it has  been presented. Thank you, Madam President.
78. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I shall call on the representative of Guatemala, to be followed by Georgia and Venezuela,  then the last speaker will be Tonga again. Then, as we very likely shall not reach a consensus, I shall put the  matter to a vote. I now call on the representative of Guatemala.
(79) Mr MENDOZA ROSALES (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall be very brief. I should just like to say that we fully agree  with the opinion of the distinguished delegates of Argentina, Costa Rica and other countries, and we support the  decision reached in Commission III. Thank you very much.
80. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now call on the representative of Venezuela.
(81) Ms ENGELBRECHT (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. I should just like to support what has been said by the  distinguished delegates of Argentina, Costa Rica and Chile. Their opinions on this matter fully match ours. Thank  you very much.
82. The PRESIDENT:  I understand that the representative of Georgia does not wish to speak on this matter. I shall now give  the floor to Tonga, but Sir, you made your point quite clearly so please be brief. We shall then put the matter to  the vote.
83. Mr BLOOMFIELD (Tonga):  Thank you, Madam President. As this is a democracy, it is for the mover of the amendment to speak  again and I thank you very much for the opportunity. The revised Statutes of IOC were originally proposed by  the Executive Board and adopted by the Legal Committee, whose document included marine processes. I just  remind everybody of the fact. In their wisdom Commission IIT have changed what had been approved by the  Executive Board and adopted by the Legal Committee. I am begging for marine processes to be included as they  were in the first place. Thank you, Madam President.
84.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. An amendment has been proposed and I believe that everyone now understands what it  entails. It is presented by Tonga and supported by four or five countries. It has been seconded by Belize,  Malaysia, Barbados, Haiti. Other speakers have spoken in favour of retaining the original text of the document  presented by Commission III.
84.2 We shall first vote on the amendment. Would those in favour of the amendment proposed by Tonga  please raise your hands? Thank you. Who is against? May I now have the abstentions. Please be patient while we  do some mathematics, which I am unable to do in English.
84.3 The voting on the amendment proposed by Tonga and seconded by several countries was as follows:
13 in favour, 29 against, and 20 abstentions, out of 62 delegates participating in the vote. So I am afraid your  amendment was not accepted.
85.1 Mr SHEYA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I would like first of all to take this opportunity to thank  and commend the Chairperson of Commission III for this most elaborate report. Madam President, in the report  of the Chairperson of Commission III, mention was made of several items that were discussed during its  meetings. Unfortunately, one issue which comes to my mind, and which was discussed fully, was the culture of  maintenance. I am afraid this question is not reflected in the report.
85.2 But, Madam President, there is a significant point on which I wanted to propose an amendment to the  written report, specifically to paragraph 39, on page 13, of document 30 C/63. Madam President, the Chairperson  of Commission III, and those who participated in the debate during the meetings of Commission III, might recall  the observation made by the Tanzanian delegation, and supported by others, that there is an imbalance or poor  representation of African scientists within the IOC Secretariat. And, secondly, there was also a geographical  imbalance in the representation of scientists from developing countries within the IOC Executive Council. We  would like to introduce the following amendment to paragraph 39, after the words “The General Conference”:  “1. Invites the Director-General of UNESCO to ensure geographical balance of staff in the Secretariat  of IOC, in particular the recruitment of African scientists;
2. Calls upon the IOC Assembly to institute a system which will allow an equitable participation of  scientists from developing countries in the IOC Council.”  Thank you, Madam President.
86. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Before I ask whether this can be accommodated by the Chairperson of the Commission, I  should like to see if there is any support for your suggestion. Does anyone second this proposal? Yes, I can see  that it is seconded by Zimbabwe. I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Commission to react to the  amendment proposed.
87. Mr LUGUIJO (Uganda), Chairperson of Commission III:  Madam President, in my oral report I alluded to the issue of staffing in IOC. This therefore is a very  pertinent addition, to which I have no objection.
88. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Are there any more remarks? Would the Executive Secretary of IOC like to make a  comment? Yes, you have the floor.
89.1 Mr BERNAL, Executive Secretary of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission:  Very briefly, Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to clarify some points. I think this is an  issue that should be explained to you because the Council of IOC is a governing body and is composed of  Member States, so this is something you should know, namely that the Assembly of IOC selects the Member  States to serve as the 35 members of the Executive Council of IOC. This is not, therefore, like another  intergovernmental programme; it is fully a decision of the Member States and the Secretariat has very little,  actually nothing, to do with the designation of members of the Executive Council of IOC. Any reference to the  Executive Council should be addressed accordingly.
89.2 In any case, there are rules of geographical representation that follow very much the rules of the United  Nations in terms of geographical groups and voting groups; therefore the governing bodies of IOC very much  mimic and duplicate, in the spirit of representation, what the rules are for the UNESCO body. Thank you.
90. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Sir. So we have an amendment presented by the United Republic of Tanzania and seconded  by Zimbabwe which we would introduce in paragraph 39:  “1. Invites the Director-General of UNESCO to ensure geographical balance of staff in the  Secretariat of IOC, in particular the recruitment of African scientists;
2. Calls upon the IOC Assembly to institute a system which will allow an equitable participation of  scientists from the developing countries in the [OC Council.”  I think that this proposal is fair and can be accommodated. Do we have consensus on this proposal? The  representative of Guinea has the floor.
91. M. FODA (Guinée) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je précise qu'il s'agit du "Conseil exécutif de la COI", et non du "Conseil  de la COI".
92. The PRESIDENT:  Yes. I now call on the representative of Argentina.
(93.1) Mr GONZALEZ (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry, I know it is quite late, but I am rather put out by this proposal  and wanted to explain the two main reasons why. First of all, I believe I am right in saying that this Organization  has clear-cut criteria for the geographical distribution applied to all its organs when recruiting staff and it therefore  seems unnecessary to insist on an aspect that is dealt with by the Organization’s general policy on geographical  distribution.
(93.2) Secondly, both the Executive Council and the Assembly of IOC, through Group DOSS-2, the body  referred to by other delegations, are actively working out criteria for geographical distribution tailored to I0C’s  reality. Therefore, a decision of this kind would be superfluous and might possibly contradict the findings of those  organs. My question is: would it not be possible for these reflections and concerns, all of which I find quite  legitimate, to be included in the oral report or the records of this session of the General Conference? We are  concerned about the possible inclusion of an amendment that might contradict the work being done by the  Commission. Thank you.
94. The PRESIDENT:  I believe that the Chairperson of the Commission which dealt with the matter feels that he can  accommodate this amendment. Are there any objections to the amendment proposed? I give the floor to the  representative of the Russian Federation.
95. l-x I". OP/DKOHHKH/13E (Poccuiickas Denepanns):  BbIPAXKAeT CEPHE3HOE HEIOYMEHHE TO IOBOWY BTOPOH NONMPABKH, IMPHHHMA4 BO BHHMAHHE CXOJICTBO  chTyaumä B HocronmmTensHom core MOK nu B Hcmnommmrensnom cosere IOHECKO. Ilpu TaitHOM  TOJIOCOBAHHH, IIPHYEM TO PerHOHAJIbHbIM TPYITIAM, HEBO3MOXHO TMPEIyCMOTPETh YWICHCTBO KAKOW-JIMOO CTPaHbI  B HerionnnTenbHom coBere. II09TOMy mepBbIil H BTOPOH BOIPOChI HYK/TAIOTCA B OMOJITHHTEIBHOM yToOYHeHNH. B
06cyxXaemoH ceñxac cTaTbe 4 YcTaBa MOACHAETCA, YTO WieHOM KomnccHn MOXeT OBIT MmOÔ0e rOCYTAPCTBO,  KOTOPOC SIBIIIETCS YIEHOM Jit000# oprann3ammm cuctembl OOH. II03TOMY HETIOHATHO O KaKHX TPEIHAMEPEHHBIX  MecTax B HcenonmmTebHoMm cosere MOK MoxeT HATH peur.
(95) Mr ORDJONIKIDZE (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  I am extremely puzzled by the second amendment, considering the similarity of situations in the IOC  Executive Council and the UNESCO Executive Board. With secret voting, and moreover with regional groups, it is  impossible to ensure that any particular country becomes a member of the Executive Council. Article 4 of the  Statutes now under discussion states that membership of the Commission shall be open to any Member State of any
25   one of the organizations of the United Nations system. I therefore fail to understand how there can be any talk of  prearranged places in the IOC Executive Council.
96. The PRESIDENT:  May I ask the Chairperson of the Commission which dealt with the issue for his opinion on the matter?
97. Mr LUGUJJO (Uganda), Chairperson of Commission III:  Madam President, I think the gist of the amendment deals with promoting the participation of  developing countries in the activities of IOC. And indeed, in this august body, we have such references to certain  regions where, although we know there are formal channels, some emphasis is placed on certain domains. I think  this is a suitable framework for such an amendment. It does not infringe on any constitutional platform of the  Organization but it emphasizes the issue of the promotion and fostering and participation of less-developed or  developing countries or countries in transition into the activities of IOC. This is the way I see it. Thank you,  Madam President.
98. The PRESIDENT:  I also understand these two paragraphs mainly as a deal. I shall close the list after Zimbabwe, Guinea,  Senegal and Barbados. I should like to close the debate on this because I think we could reach a consensus. I give  the floor to the representative of Zimbabwe.
99. Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):  Madam President, I will be very brief. I concur entirely with what the Chairperson of Commission III  has just stated. Thank you, Madam President.
100. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I call upon the representative of Guinea.
101. M. FODA (Guinée) :  Madame la Présidente, je serai bref moi aussi. Je souhaite simplement m'associer aux propos du  Président de la Commission. C'est une situation que peut aussi se produire dans le cas du Comité du patrimoine  mondial. Quand il y a élection, tous les pays sont candidats dans le cadre de leurs groupes respectifs. Cet  amendement vise simplement à inviter les autres groupes électoraux à tenir compte du nombre de sièges. Si les  candidatures sont proportionnelles à ce nombre de sièges, les candidats du groupe V pourront donc dans une  certaine mesure tout cas avoir les mêmes chances que ceux des autres groupes électoraux. Je vous remercie.
102. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now, the last speaker on this particular issue is Senegal. I call upon the representative of  Senegal to take the floor.
103. M. MODOU GUEYE (Sénégal) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je serai très bref. L'absence d'un secrétariat régional de la COI pour  l'Afrique de l'Ouest et l'Afrique centrale explique me semble-t-il en partie la sous-représentation de l'Afrique au  sein de la COI. Si tel est bien le cas, je pose la question : à quand la création d'un tel secrétariat régional ? Je  vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
104.1 The PRESIDENT:  I do not think I can answer this question. Can anyone answer it? I do not think so. Well, this brings us to  the end of the discussion of this particular item, which was introduced by the United Republic of Tanzania,  supported by several countries and also supported by the Chairperson of the Commission. So if there are no  strong objections to this, can we reach a consensus to accept this amendment? The amendment is accepted.
104.2 I give the floor to the representative of Barbados, who, I believe, wishes to speak on a different topic.
105.1 Ms CUMMINS (Barbados):  Thank you, Madam President. I wish to draw the attention of this body to a slightly inconvenient  situation which we could try to amend. On page 21 of document 30 C/63, the decision recommended by the  Commission with respect to the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”, a decision which is in no  way in dispute, is very similar to a decision recommended by Commission IV on page 11 of document 30 C/64.  It occurred to me that it might be advisable to harmonize the two decisions for the sake of consistency. There are  slight differences in subparagraph (i) and a completely new paragraph 4 in Commission IV’s report. I propose  that we amend the paragraphs in Commission III's report to bring them into line with the draft resolution in  Commission IV’s report. I will read out the differences in working to make this clear.
105.2 On page 21 of the English version, paragraph 56 of Commission IIl’s report deals with the  transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. Paragraph 21 of Commission IV’s report, on page 11 of  document 30 C/64, deals with the same subject but subparagraph (a)(i) of the draft resolution has an additional  sentence at the end, after “United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations (2001)”, which reads “and in  particular countries which have recently become independent”. After that the text is the same until we come to  subparagraph (a)(iv) in Commission IV’s draft resolution which reads “UNESCO will take action to promote  activities as regards the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations and will identify  key partners, design the strategy, develop a plan of action and mobilize the needed financial resources”. My  proposal, Madam President, is to include just that one sentence at the end of subparagraph (i) and the new  subparagraph (iv) which I have just read out in Commission IT s report. Thank you.
106. The PRESIDENT:  I believe that with the consent of the Chairperson of the Commission your proposal can be  accommodated in editing the report and that it can be harmonized as suggested. May I ask the Secretariat of the  General Conference whether this can be done. Yes, it can be done. I now give the floor to the representative of  Germany.
107. Mr SCHOFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. Could the Secretary kindly repeat the amendment and indicate the place  where it should fit in?
108. The PRESIDENT:  I understand that it is not exactly an amendment, but it is a question of harmonizing two texts which are  almost the same, but not quite, and should be in harmony - if I understand Barbados correctly. I give the floor to  representative of Germany.
109.1 Mr SCHOFTHALER (Germany):  Madam President, the joint meeting of the Commissions this afternoon addressed the issue of  harmonizing the two texts and there was consensus in the meeting that only the amendments made in  Commission III should be proposed for adoption. No other texts. So I do not understand whether we are going to  adopt a different text or the text as it was amended in Commission III.
109.2 Now I have just been informed that the purpose of Barbados’ intervention is to harmonize the language  in the reports of Commission III and Commission IV. I do not have any objection to raise, but I think it must be  made clear to every delegation here what exactly we are deciding.
110.1 The PRESIDENT:  We have now been enlightened and we understand. I think that the Barbados proposal will be  accommodated and that we can slowly draw to the end of our deliberations. I see no more comments or  questions, so I shall take it that the General Conference wishes to take note of the report of Commission III and  adopt the draft resolutions as amended by the United Republic of Tanzania. Do I have your agreement? Is there a  consensus? It is so decided.
110.2 Distinguished delegates, we have completed our agenda for this afternoon and I do not regret that there  has been this long discussion because there would be bitterness if people did not have a chance to have their say.
110.3 We shall meet again in plenary tomorrow at 10 a.m. to adopt the reports of Commission II and  Commission V. I thank you for your patience. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée a 18 h.40  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.40
3acezanme 3akpbrBaeTc4 B 18.40  slaw V6 + dell 3 Luda) candy  ENT 18H 404) 45 31