Septième séance plénière
29 octobre 1999 à 10 h.35  Présidente : Mme FAXAS (République dominicaine)  puis : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : M. GILAVOGUI (Guinée)  Seventh plenary meeting
29 October 1999 at 10.35 a.m.  President: Ms FAXAS (Dominican Republic)  later: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Mr GILAVOGUI (Guinea)  Séptima sesiôn plenaria
19994E10 H 29 H 101} 354)  FRE: Keira CREME)  ME: REDE CE AAME)  Bla: TARÆE00E LAE
229   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXK/IEHHE BOITPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Good morning, I should like to ask you to be patient. Since we do not have the quorum required under  the Rules of Procedure, I am suspending the meeting. It will resume in five minutes’ time. Thank you.
(1.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the seventh plenary meeting of the 30th session of the General  Conference. The meeting of the General Committee of the Conference began late, in the early hours of the  morning. In order not to delay the general policy debate we shall now embark on the list of plenary speakers. I first  give the floor to His Excellency Mr Louis Galea, the Minister of Education and Culture of Malta.
2.1 Mr GALEA (Malta):  Madam President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to join previous speakers  in congratulating Ms Moserova on her election to preside over this General Conference. May I also pay tribute to  Mr Portella as our outgoing President; his intellectual input to this Organization has given new impetus to  UNESCO’s intellectual mission. Malta would also like to congratulate Ambassador Matsuura on his nomination  for election to the high office of Director-General. We are confident that under his direction UNESCO will start  the new millennium reinvigorated with a new sense of mission. As in the past Malta will do its best to play a  constructive and creative role.
2.2 Madam President, the major input which Malta wishes to make to this Conference will come, I hope,  when it discusses the item placed by the Director-General on our agenda concerning “Intellectual works of  universal value that have fallen into the public domain and are regarded as forming part of the common heritage  of humanity”. In fact this is the subject matter of a resolution which Malta has already tabled and which, I  understand, will be further considered by Commission IV in the coming days. The phrase “common heritage of  humanity” will immediately bring the name of Malta to the minds of many people, since it was Malta’s recently  deceased Ambassador to the United Nations, Dr Arvid Pardo, who gave a legal definition of the concept of the  common heritage, distinguishing it from other resources which could be appropriated or made subject to State  sovereignty. Today it has become an operative and fundamental principle of international law.
2.3 Here I would like to make just two points. First, I would like to express our admiration for all that  Federico Mayor has done for the enhancement of the common heritage of humanity throughout his lifetime and  especially during his years as Director-General. When it was being discussed in Malta what honorary doctorate  should be awarded to him, it was concluded that the most appropriate would have been Doctor of the  Imagination; but unfortunately the university does not grant such titles. My second point is that when Malta  proposed that the seabed be declared the first item to fall under the regime of the common heritage, this was not  because it was the most obvious item for such inclusion, but because it was very urgent to do something. The  most obvious candidate for inclusion in the common heritage is that proposed at this Conference by the outgoing  Director-General; to him I wish to pay a tribute, even though it is necessarily brief and inadequate in the present  context.
2.4 Madam President, at UNESCO, as in my own government structure, it has become traditional to  correlate and yet to separate, for practical organizational purposes, education and culture; but when UNESCO’s  Major Programme I is devoted to “Education for all throughout life” and its Major Programme III is called  “Cultural development: the heritage and creativity”, the overlap becomes obvious. Likewise, at the level of  national government, the development of life-wide as well as lifelong education has made it increasingly obvious  that the scope of education is much wider than mere schooling and that the task of education for people of all
230   ages, in view of the massively important new instruments of information and communication, has to be carried  out by means which we tend to associate more with cultural operations than with scholastic activities.
2.5 It has become increasingly important to realize that our primary major task is to manage — in order to  foster all sorts of creativity out of initially chaotic experience — the cultural revolution which is taking place on a  global scale; and that consequently we should regard the renewal of school-based education as just a constituent  part of our management of the cultural revolution, rather than vice versa. In Malta, the government is striving to  achieve an “inclusive” society. This means, among other things, catering for the special educational needs of  disabled children and their families and ensuring they are given equal opportunity to achieve their personal  potential. We are striving to take all the necessary measures so that students with special needs are adequately  prepared to contribute their share to a productive and creative society.
2.6 In relation to UNESCO’s Major Programme II, Sciences in the service of development, Malta is  preparing to take the necessary measures to broaden the reach of science and technology to the public at large.  This has required massive investment in physical and human resources, and is being undertaken in close  collaboration with the university and local industry. A new vocational college is being set up, as an alternative to  the university education route, for students whose natural bent is more practical than theoretical. Curricula in all  fields are also being revised to cater for the new teaching methods that computerization in the classroom requires.
2.7 In the field of Major Programme III, Cultural development: the heritage and creativity, Malta is trying to  give new impetus to its commitments under the 1972 Convention for the Preservation of the World Cultural and  Natural Heritage. We are grateful to UNESCO for the expert assistance received to safeguard the world heritage  sites, ranging from the megalithic to the Baroque, which are so impressively clustered on the small space of our  island and to render them as accessible and as significant as possible to the rest of humanity. A Restoration  Institute has been established which we hope will service not only Malta, but also the Mediterranean region,  especially with regard to those materials which are most typically used in Malta, such as stone. A new structure is  being given to our heritage safeguarding institutions involving public—private partnerships of different kinds.  Malta would also like to participate in the elaboration of UNESCO?s draft rules concerning the underwater  cultural heritage which, though in its initial phase, could provide landmark guidance where it is much needed, as  in the Mediterranean.
2.8 Madam President, obviously the Mediterranean Programme of UNESCO has particular interest for us.  We applaud the initiatives taken to facilitate the constitution by non-governmental organizations in the area of a  Mediterranean Council of Culture, to which the Government of Malta is offering hospitality. It is envisaged that,  among other things, the Council’s service will be useful for some form of coordination to emerge between the  various initiatives with a cultural dimension which are burgeoning somewhat confusedly in the area, such as the  European Union’s MEDA Programme, the Mediterranean Action Plan, and the Council of Europe and ALECSO.  The various projects emanating from intergovernmental organizations, of which I have just named some, are  concerned with “the memory of the Mediterranean”, the setting up of a pluricultural multilingual thematic  television channel, ecological awareness, water resources conflict-solving mechanisms and so on. We are  particularly interested in the “culture of peace” initiatives related to peace at sea, intercultural dialogue on human  rights and new integrated versions of Mediterranean history that will eliminate the negative stereotypes still  prevalent today.
2.9 In Major Programme IV, Towards a communication and information society for all, UNESCO envisages  investment in a house-wide preparation for the new millennium, with the necessary expertise. UNESCO’s  increased cooperation with the International Telecommunication Union is a step in the right direction. In another  forum — the Council of Europe — my Ministry will next week host a European conference on universal  community service. This initiative stems from the Thessaloniki Declaration of 1997 in which European  governments undertook to make new communications and information services, such as the Internet, accessible  and affordable to all at the local community level, regardless of their geographical location. The Maltese  Government is thus committed to implementing this principle with the cooperation of regional libraries and  municipal councils and to providing access to the information highway in every town and village of Malta.
2.10 Statistics reveal that over 90% of lower income earners in Europe do not have access to the Internet.  Imagine how much wider the gap between the “haves” and “have-nots” will be in the next 20 years if nothing is  done at the universal intergovernmental level to bridge this growing chasm of inequality of opportunity. This is  again a responsibility that UNESCO cannot shirk and must address.
2.11 The Government of Malta intends to inaugurate the new millennium not so much by the traditional  setting off of fireworks and street partying with champagne, although no doubt that will also happen. The  government is turning one of the famous military installations of Valletta, known since the time of the Knights of
231   Malta as the St James Cavalier, into a centre for the arts and for scientific creativity devoted to the culture of  peace. The event itself will be, we hope, an impressive happening of internationally shared joy and beauty. The  Chicago-based sculptor of light John David Mooney will participate with Maltese artists in the symbolic  enactment of Joseph Beuys’ belief that every man is a special kind of artist rather than that the artist is a special  kind of man. Moreover, it should be apparent that the artificial dichotomy of modern times between art and  science is collapsing in the face of contemporary technology. All this, I hope, can serve to herald the day when  culture is no longer forced into subservience to authoritarian politics and politics is totally at the service of the  development of humane multiculturalism. I would like to invite you all to the celebration, preferably in body and  spirit but at least with mind and heart. Thank you.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Your Excellency, for your encouraging words on culture and development. I now call on His  Excellency Dr Izzat Jaradat, the Minister of Education of Jordan.  (oY) whl sul 8)  hig! ol eld) Opoyimall SLA cpl Ja duty Sand! cpu JI pan Al poy  dus, Lal yesdll duns, Band! Big Tal ol Pa AS 59 AI Lay pSale pb! Baludly  ell ypmile sand 5 Sal LS LaS> 3338 SOLE § La Lg) Linie ¢sSudsll pall pagal) SSII 5 ysl
518 ally Tans) 83001 hy dl pi) pubs ils BILD 0990 § Bei) 4) Liste aiid) pla  Goyal galnall slasly Gall pula! (uy spel) SAIL a2 ly coll aig SOLS § Binal 0554 >  peimall 5 Ayyll dpi), sy Y 3 Laygoy Lilly Lr sind QUI AB 038 plas] 3 ues) pgolg  Slaly (Bll BUS, poule sSuad aedl oll 31 yall iil adhe Le RS Lol pass Joo  lalbilly basil] Sy asl SLI es Jl Go Byph days § abil) Bie old  À AIN GLISSE Joan 50 Ja CB pity oly Lily cupially oll gl JI Jas  Jind 5 voytiy hdd win Sus 8s spall! pl Gad Ble Bogan meal paleill Glass  Al Olas 8 gs! Glad! 122 § Gyaûll 3 Grrl  Aabill 028 Byun oy SR; SHI Dlially poll papde JI pail Sel of (Bll és EN  SI OUI 525059 Rabi) Lol LEI Blob Gisele Sogdill Lolag Vl wl pill iss Jo
3 SSI Glands al lle go allall Laëls Li, Gags) Lgie Dsl Lg lad Jes Led] wdogs  A Bolg)! Tusa! pall! pshs § ayy Gabel) 43515 Boslgll SELON Blast § ple 00 Les)  Cpl] peal) Lgal BLU wlll Jo bls! § lyse dif yal Gr SI LAGU Log 5500  Es Lgioais dobre] wleag dy | So ll deed aad SLY DIE sla] 5 Layss ASS,  poladl Cabas CBI Lg 1 Gols Brandy COLA gig Lb! dad] pals som i § Jia poli  Gayl) Olly cAslus¥l Bled! le Lhd oY ba] deals Cyd! Lal) Toss) Lelia  aid! 2557 LS Els LSI Gaia) Bolg Duel Apwgy cols is byliels Sipoïo Lyall  ol Bols lund! AE bales] Glatiol 3s Lesh] culled à Jdl hol gins Jeo LB poy  way ch ll Olina! IS ,Liog Tg 500 pe YI gia ol J Sa Ÿ debi ob gade  cAmoDo5 dla say lass A wan 55 J GO JESN Gags i, Lily dus las tl Ll yud  bled olds wloglell Le glyiss à pLall ysbilly hf pled IDs «SIN [ail disso  Ll Ad Lolbul gd) Tours 8padlly Loa) Jul ou Sead slasly chgopallg Laid
4959 duedlBly dby whale! ole] GbE Lpaea (oy RoleBlly Delay duels
232   c 43, Lf Ados al yan] coluo US oles dy pially Liab]! 3, oll Ladi! Cpt 9 PERIRES  Leslusy Ll Lolo Lisl! Smt ius gig +U5,50 ipod! Lait] Ge el (5 iano ins  BEN SAI ¢ bland] aagsy Eolas Vly dost] allay LUE Goldy co Soi gp  By copia paws le Jens cud mainly Lgl Bl sid (Canad! SIL palaall Jo as  rss pS ale cag) Ls coll Jed SON Gesell dll sla (Lal Lot  SOY Cbs olall Ed pslally DBUdly Tl Lol Loghie tar blll Sin cabs]  ad J poliall JS i5 Lies à Ab lull shi) lbasy 4230s Ge 526Yly cd) DL
335 cdg duels Vly Lo ll baobab (LAG Lusty 50) M § Dua iS Dela] Lia idl  BJ wags ESE Lod Lyell Sel me bE Jo FUSIL Boldly YoY ng  Lgl Tali eslay | Jl slant JA 5 plely SHI ZY plod) pas LIS  Fadl pay Luis Lua Jpn Spas pl Gad à (nS AUT poämall colalbil L5G Dla!  Slay «bls! Jalully « gbgll sil sli ¥l ool pyede S30 à Lill 5959 Sills
535 sesh pala! Langa (Asloslally Dall Lali pay Jalal SLY doggie LA BUS  BS Jo pala! Goi 35s lalally TSH 61,05 Joy Jud oll me à plally dual  at 2erdlly pal cols La 13] Logs plaid] pag «25,8015 pala] ou Eli 3) ga pl pl  asl Jb Jal) Jad] ay oll gsi plyinly cally cdolall pla  (Saal 40 9pdo 5 05381 baasing SUI polally BU, Lol lensliinl § doshill oda of BE  Leroy Eayhoy cdabill oda laal xo Hl wlandy Gupdially Soleil ol line mo Jolial  Lg ese 50305 abil 0s pes Je 0a) poy uS3 Sly Aplul LENS Lille, poy Lidl  Od 1835 AW Sill eo polally BUY Lp ill 3 SOLE Laygo dogs Lgaal Flash ples  AS 513 AI das 59 Sale poly «Sc Lois
(4.1) Mr JARADAT (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you all. It gives me great pleasure to begin by  congratulating the President on her election as President of the 30th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. I wish the Conference all success under her competent and judicious leadership. 1 should also like to  congratulate Mr Matsuura, the Director-General-elect, and wish him a successful term in office. I should like to  offer my appreciation and esteem to the President of the 29th session for his outstanding efforts in leading the  General Conference, and I wish to thank the Chairperson and the distinguished Members of the Executive Board  for their important contribution to the success of this Organization, whose mandate and role in fostering human  development in the international community are a source of gratification for us all. May I also take this opportunity  to express my great esteem for the role played with such supreme competence by Mr Federico Mayor during his  term of office at the head of this Organization. That period was a portentous one for the human community, marked  as it was, as the twenty-first century approached, by unprecedented challenges and aspirations, but you, sir,  consistently displayed confidence and hope, looking to the future, working tirelessly to shift competition in the  world to the arena of education for all, striving to attain peace of conscience, the family, society at large, and all  humanity, and cultivating awareness of the right of peoples in the context of that competition in the field of  education.
(4.2) I must say how greatly I admire the Draft Programme and Budget, reaffirming as it does this  Organization’s desire to proceed with the task of bringing about positive change, carry out its ethical human  mission and strengthen the results achieved by the international commissions established by it, with a view to  creating a clear vision of tomorrow’s world and its major challenges in the area of globalization, bringing about a  just peace, crystallizing the concept of dialogue between cultures and deepening the personal and cultural identities  of nations, thereby enabling them to participate in what is a single human civilization. In particular, I greatly  admire the role played by UNESCO in the development of educational programmes aimed at strengthening the  cultural identity of the Palestinian Arab people, the preservation of the cultural heritage of the holy city of  Jerusalem, the reinvigoration of the human heritage and the renewal of the historical understanding of humankind.  The draft programme contains a number of positive orientations, such as the consolidation of the concepts of  democracy and human rights, the strengthening of the principles of ethical education, the harnessing of science and
233   its applications in the service of human development, recognition of the risks to human life of environmental  changes, and priority to education as a human right, a means of development and an instrument for the realization  of human potential. The draft programme also reaffirms the Organization’s desire to enhance its methods of  management and to assume its future-oriented roles. Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO?s draft programme can be  implemented only with the support of the international family, the participation of human societies, and the  contribution of their creative abilities and innovative capacities. Only thus can the Organization safely make the  transition to a new century that will bring in its train challenges, aspirations and new issues, including the  population explosion, the disruption of the balance of nature, galloping change in information technology, the  growing problems of development and indebtedness, the widening gap between rich nations and poor nations, and  the dominance of globalization, with its concomitant cultural, political, social and economic implications. The task  of addressing these various issues will require the formulation of innovative national, regional and international  strategies. The world’s natural and human capital must be judiciously used if the dynamics, the changes and the  demands of the new era are to be appropriately met, and if a higher level of human development is to be achieved,  one that is characterized by qualitative improvement in social, economic, cultural and political terms.
(4.3) Jordan, with its historic leadership role, its Arab and international mission, its democratic tradition, the  horizons of which were dominated by His late Majesty, King Hussein, whose death was an irreparable loss to the  international family and the human community, and whose successor, His Majesty King Abdullah II, is working to  consolidate the roots of that tradition with confidence and ability, Jordan, I say, clearly understands the important  role played by education, culture and science in the advancement of human development. In Jordan’s national  development project — comprehensive in scope, forward-looking in orientation, scientific in conception, systematic  in design — the relationships among the nation’s educational, cultural and scientific strategies are deliberately  strengthened. Scientific research, the allocation of resources for research purposes, the utilization of research  results and data to develop the nation’s capabilities in applying those results and data, these are the main elements  of Jordan’s science and technology strategy. Cultural development, with its individual, social and institutional  dimensions, is aimed at strengthening both the country’s awareness of its roots and its position in the contemporary  world and making it aware of other cultures; it is oriented towards pride in our cultural identity while seeking to  channel our cultural capabilities in the direction of innovation, intellectual productivity and participation in world  culture. Jordan’s educational strategy, for its part, is designed to serve the vaulting hopes and aspirations of society  through the establishment of an education system that takes into account the importance of the development of a  spirit of creativity and rationality, the role of education in strengthening the concepts of social security, national  affiliation, democratic values and the assimilation of a culture of peace (understood in its just, humanistic sense), as  well as the dissemination of knowledge and information technology, including the educational use of computers.  The aim of this strategy is to enhance the role played by schools and teachers in shaping the individuals of the  future and honing their capabilities, intellectual and scientific, so as to ensure that education will prevail over  catastrophe. Human history may be summed up as the story of struggle between education and catastrophe, and  education will always win, provided peoples and nations are bound together by mutual respect, goodwill, respect  for human rights, and participation in the task of building a shared future for coming generations.
(4.4) This, then, is the array of educational, cultural and scientific strategies on which Jordan is relying in its  national development project, as it prepares to interact with the realities and challenges of the twenty-first century.  The aims of that project are consistent with the objectives of this Organization as set forth in its future-oriented  draft programme, and with its humanistic and ethical mandate. I take this opportunity to reaffirm Jordan’s desire to  support this Organization, strengthen its action, contribute to the success of its programmes and promote its  leadership role in the fields of education, science and culture throughout the world. Thank you for your attention.  Peace and the Blessing and Mercy of God be upon you.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Luis Ignacio Gémez  Gutiérrez, the Minister of Education of Cuba.
(6.1) Mr GOMEZ GUTIERREZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, representative of the Director-General, distinguished delegates, it is a tragic reality that  the noble objectives pursued by UNESCO since its foundation and the programmes and goals approved in favour  of the progress of education, science and culture, run the risk of not being fulfilled for the overwhelming majority  of humanity. But nothing else 1s to be expected of an economic order in which the fortunes of the 225 richest  individuals on this planet are equal to the annual income of the 2,500 million poorest people in the world.  Furthermore, the pledge of the richest countries to donate 0.7% of their GDP as international development aid has  not been kept since their contribution barely exceeds 0.2%.
(6.2) It is calculated that providing universal access to basic education for all would cost $6 billion every year.  Yet, quite inexplicably, the arms race is continuing and the astronomical figure of $780 billion is invested every  year in arms, i.e. many times more. This economic order burdens the poor countries with a foreign debt of  $2,000 billion, a figure constantly on the increase, and forces us to devote nearly a quarter of our increasingly  under-remunerated exports to servicing that debt.
(6.3) It is these economic conditions that lead to a world with nearly a billion illiterate people, an indeterminate  number of people suffering from functional illiteracy and 130 million children (21% of children) in developing  countries not attending school. Since, on the one hand, poor countries lack the resources to fund scientific activity  and, on the other hand, so many of our scientists and technicians are lured away by better offers in the more  developed nations where they emigrate in search of better prospects, most of our peoples have no prospects in this  field. The mechanism is so effective that even top athletes are concerned.
(6.4) Furthermore, there is still a tendency to homogenize cultural criteria and concepts and systems of values  through control of the information and communication technologies. Half of the films made and screened  throughout the world originate in the United States, as do 75% to 80% of television series, 60% of world networks,  three quarters of the information found on the Internet and half of all communication satellites. Yet in the United  States foreign films account for a mere 3% of the market. This is an attempt to impose a “single culture”, the most  modern and advanced culture, one characterized by values that overlook the rich diversity of our nations’ and  peoples’ cultures, their best traditions and their history, one intended to impose irrational consumer patterns that in  the long run destroy the environment to the extent of actually threatening humanity with extinction.
(6.5) We must raise awareness in order to fight this globalization that advocates the free flow of capital while  restricting that of persons, fomenting racial discrimination and the resurgence of xenophobia. It is a globalization  that makes indiscriminate market forces the backbone of all social activity, instilling personal success at any price  as a supreme value and encouraging negative individualism. The globalization that our peoples need is that of  solidarity.
(6.6) UNESCO must be constantly committed to promoting a culture of peace founded on unrestricted respect  for the principles of international law and a rejection of so-called humanitarian military intervention and the  growing attempts to impose just one type of human rights model as the standard, a model running counter to that  cultural and political diversity which is truly one of the great assets of humanity and part of its heritage. The  sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations and their equality, the right to self-determination and non-  interference in internal affairs, are all inviolable principles in which our peoples should be reared.
(6.7) Over the past 40 years, Cuba has made huge efforts in the fields of education, science and culture. We  have eradicated illiteracy and guaranteed access to and permanent attendance at school by all children of school  age, including those with special education needs. Hundreds of thousands of high-level professionals have been  trained; dozens of scientific research centres drawing on that potential have been founded, with ground-breaking  results at world level. Cuba safeguards its culture as one of the most precious facets of its heritage and thousands of  graduates from its art schools and institutions have helped to preserve and enhance it. The results would be a lot  better were it not for the genocidal economic war which, over the past 40 years, has been waged against our people,  our tiny country, by the strongest power ever known to humanity.
(6.8) Using the human resources we have trained, with their very high qualifications and ethics, primarily  driven by solidarity with other human beings, Cuba has offered its cooperation to other poor countries in many  fields, in most cases free of charge, and is willing to cooperate with UNESCO by contributing skilled personnel for  any projects so requiring. In Cuba thousands of professionals have been trained for Africa, Asia and Latin America.  More than 15,000 Cuban teachers have provided disinterested educational service in over 20 countries. We are  currently cooperating with several countries in radio literacy campaigns.
(6.9) Our country hosts the biennial Educational Congress, attended by participants from all over the world,  and this event has become a forum where thousands of educators, mainly from Latin America and the Caribbean,  can exchange experiences and break new ground. UNESCO has co-sponsored these forums, with other  international organizations, and sent representatives to other important events held in our country, just as it has  approved funding for several programmes and projects. We favour an increase in the Organization’s budgetary  provision for national and regional activities in the Member States for strengthening participation programmes,  with priority for developing countries and small islands. We think that if the projects executed by the National  Commissions and UNESCO Chairs are supported and strengthened, then the utmost attention can go to the priority  programmes in each country.
(6.10) On behalf of my government, I should like to express our deepest gratitude to Dr Federico Mayor, who  has carried out his work with a strong sense of humanism, honesty, wisdom and enthusiasm, and to express Cuba’s  support for the leadership of the new Director-General.
(6.11) Ladies and gentlemen, Cuba will strive for the consolidation of this Organization since it can contribute  so much to genuine human development, as against the unsustainable world it is being attempted to thrust on us  and for the conversion of UNESCO into a prime forum for making the next century, as proposed by the President  of the Council of State and Council of Ministers of Cuba, Fidel Castro, the century of culture in all its forms.  Thank you very much.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Gômez Gutiérrez. I now give the floor to Mr Rimantas Slizys, Deputy Minister for  Education and Science of Lithuania.
8.1 Mr SLIZYS (Lithuania):  Madam President, representative of the Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  in the nine years since we became a member of UNESCO our relationship with the Organization has developed  very rapidly and successfully. At the 29th session of the General Conference Lithuania was elected to the  Executive Board and has been actively involved in the work of the different UNESCO sectors.
8.2 Lithuania has joined the UNITWIN/UNESCO Chairs Programme, establishing two new Chairs in 1998,  a Chair in culture management and culture policies and a Chair in international relations and European studies.  The first Chair in informatics for humanitarians was launched in 1996.
8.3 The visibility of UNESCO in our country has considerably improved thanks to UNESCO radio which  has been broadcasting a weekly programme since February 1998. A parliamentary group of friendship with  UNESCO has been created this year and three UNESCO Clubs and five Associated Schools help disseminate the  image and aims of the Organization in Lithuanian society.
8.4 We are grateful to UNESCO for the support granted to our Ministry of Education and Science in the  field of civic education and hope that this cooperation will be reinforced in the future. The need for such  cooperation was emphasized during the regional seminar organized by UNESCO, our Ministry of Education and  Science and the Lithuanian Centre for Human Rights in 1998. We would like to propose further training and  qualification improvement of civic education teachers, further translation of UNESCO materials and the  development of activities within the framework of the universal ethics project and support for regional initiatives  to strengthen democracy. In this context, as in other fields, specific contributions under the Participation  Programme are of particular importance for my country.
8.5 Lithuania welcomes UNESCO'?s initiative in the field of the oral and intangible heritage and the decision  to establish criteria for selection and preservation as well as to grant an award to its masterpieces.
8.6 We are paying great attention to the follow-up of the UNESCO World Conferences on Cultural Policies  for Development, Higher Education, Technical and Vocational Education and Science held in Stockholm, Paris,  Seoul and Budapest. The possibility of testing the main trends and mechanisms of the reform of education and
237   research systems in Lithuania, and of coordinating activities, regional as well as worldwide, establish a solid  basis for a successful continuation of our reforms. In this connection, I want to emphasize the importance of the  round table of Ministers of Central and Eastern European Countries, initiated by Ambassador Angelov during the  World Conference on Science held in Budapest.
8.7 Lithuania wishes to support UNESCO’s efforts to promote a worldwide network of universities creating  electronic repositories of scientific theses and dissertations and to promote common standards and methods as  well as cataloguing techniques together with UNESCO and relevant NGOs.
8.8 Regional cooperation is crucial for Lithuania as it is for other small countries and we are therefore  conscious of the necessity to launch the Baltic Sea programme in the framework of UNESCO.
8.9 Ever since the Middle Ages our capital, Vilnius, has been a leading centre of intercultural activities.  Therefore, having regard to the fact that the United Nations has proclaimed 2001 United Nations Year of  Dialogue among Civilizations, as proposed by the Islamic Republic of Iran, my country, joining in the common  efforts, has decided to host an international conference on dialogue among civilizations under the auspices of  UNESCO and the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
8.10 My country will celebrate the tenth anniversary of its re-established independence in the year 2000,  which it has declared “Youth Year” and is also the International Year for the Culture of Peace. For my people,  this is a decisive symbol. The cyclists of Lithuania have initiated the Great Millennium Peace Ride around the  World (1998-2000) under the auspices of UNESCO. Young people from all over the world have joined in the  ride, which unfortunately cost the life of a Peruvian participant.
8.11 Lithuania wishes to support UNESCO's initiatives in enhancing access to governmental information and  particularly statistical data, and to cooperate with other Member States to establish an international network of  exchange of public data and of statistics in various domains linked to the fields of competence of UNESCO.
8.12 On the threshold of the twenty-first century, Lithuania is paying particular attention to the future of  UNESCO: beyond the obviously necessary reforms, my country believes that the main principles of the  Organization’s Constitution should be preserved and respected. UNESCO has to remain an intellectual  organization, the guardian of the ethical values of mankind, of human rights and of the requirements of a culture  of peace and must continue to act in the future, as it has in the past, as the conscience of the United Nations  system. As we witness the constant acceleration of changes that the world is undergoing as it enters the age of  globalization we have obviously to determine new courses for UNESCO?s action and face new challenges. This  is why Lithuania is happy to be part of the Task Force on UNESCO in the Twenty-First Century and believes in  the necessity of preparing a world declaration on ethics and in the prospective function of the Organization in  seeking to become a worldwide “laboratory of ideas”.
8.13 I also wish to thank Mr Federico Mayor for the special attention and understanding that he has shown  towards the problems and needs of small countries during his tenure as Director-General of UNESCO and for  helping my country on its way towards democracy.
8.14 My congratulations go to the newly elected President. The variety of programmes of almost 200  Member States are the problems of UNESCO and are now your problems also. This is a difficult task and I wish  you success. Thank you.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr Slizys. I now call on Dr Mostafa Moin, the Minister of Culture and Higher Education of  the Islamic Republic of Iran.
10.1 Mr MOIN (Islamic Republic of Iran) (Statement delivered in Persian; English translation supplied by  the delegation):  In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful, Madam President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I would like to take  advantage of this opportunity to offer my sincere appreciation to UNESCO and its Director-General for their  untiring efforts to fulfil the valuable mission of this great Organization.
10.2 The 30th session of the General Conference is being held at a time of special prominence. In a matter of  two months, we will enter a new millennium. Such coincidence is of immense significance for thinkers, planners  and policy-makers in the fields of culture, science and education. It makes us mindful of that great event in  history, that is, the miraculous birth of a Prophet, which opened a new chapter in the spiritual evolution of  humankind, and its wonderful impact and blessings touch our lives to this day. We Muslims, who consider the  mission of our Prophet as being in continuity with the coming of Christ, hope that in the new millennium, relying  on divine teachings, humankind will be able to return to its true spiritual roots and destiny.
10.3 If at this juncture, at the threshold of the third millennium, we look back to the beginning of the second  millennium, we face quite a different civilizational contour and perspective. During that era, the Islamic  civilization, which came into being with the calling of the Prophet, was at the height of its splendour. In those  days, the great centres and institutions of science and education were situated in countries that today belong to  the so-called developing world. The harbingers and pioneers in the fields of science, thought and culture then  lived in those regions, and knowledge, techniques and scientific know-how were exported from those areas to the  rest of the world.
10.4 Comparing the world at the dawn of the third millennium with the world at the beginning of the second  millennium indicates that culture and education are not privileges enjoyed solely by certain nations or  civilizations. They are not privileges that others are barred from on account of an intrinsic shortcoming and  inaptitude. Knowledge and culture are the common heritage of humankind and all peoples of the world have a  share in their development and evolution. Today we are entrusted with a legacy accumulated through the efforts  of all nations and peoples. Accordingly, we are duty-bound to render its benefits accessible to all the peoples of  the world in an equal and equitable manner.
10.5 To achieve this end, it is high time we took stock of the history of scientific and cultural transformation  in previous centuries. We ought critically to scrutinize this history, for although in many fields it has brought  about progress, this progress has at times been attained at a great and exorbitant price. Technological and  industrial progress has led to terrible environmental crises and the destruction of many forms of life. The  advancement of Western culture has in many instances been purchased at the cost of colonizing other countries  and annihilating indigenous cultures. The growth of interest in modern empirical science has endangered many  other forms and structures of knowledge which had deep roots in other civilizations. Today the expansion of new  world communication networks threatens the national and traditional values and norms which underpin national  and local identities.
10.6 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the new millennium, the fact that the world is not  divided into first- and second-class citizens ought to be universally understood. The gap that exists between  nations with respect to knowledge, medical care, stability and industrial growth arises from injustice and  oppression. Entering the third millennium, we should firmly commit ourselves to the eradication of injustice and  human abasement.
10.7 As the representative of a country with an old culture, which is keen to participate in international  scientific and cultural cooperation, I have the great honour to offer my appreciation to UNESCO for its valuable  endeavours in these areas, especially in recent years. Between the 29th and the 30th sessions of the General  Conference, on the initiative of UNESCO, three world conferences have been held in the fields of culture,  education, and science. The organization of these conferences denotes far-sightedness and vigour on the part of  UNESCO in examining these sensitive and important fields. Viewpoints exchanged at these conferences indicate  that the roles and responsibilities of knowledge and culture in the perspective of the contemporary world are  unequal and remain undefined. The distribution of knowledge, its benefits, its institutions and educational and  research facilities in our world are far from satisfactory.
10.8 We consequently support the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for  Development, the World Conference on Higher Education and the World Conference on Science. We welcome  and fully endorse the recommendations of these conferences which take into account a culture-based  development, promote further investment of countries in education, call for a stronger connection between  education and research, emphasize the need for participation in the production of information and scientific  knowledge, encourage the expansion of cooperation at the national, regional and international levels, propose  new and diverse roles for universities vis-a-vis society, promote the safeguarding of indigenous knowledge and  the cultural heritage and highlight the importance of eliminating all kinds of discrimination in the field of  education. We hope that the necessary mechanisms for implementing these recommendations will be provided, so  that culture, science and technology will be in service of the sustainable development advocated by UNESCO  and the international community. What gives the decisions and recommendations of these three conferences  special importance is the ever-increasing fusion of science and technology with economic and political power in
239   our time. This has condemned scientifically and technologically underdeveloped countries to fall behind  economically and politically as well.
10.9 Breaking free of the circle of underdevelopment and moving along the path of real progress requires free  access by peoples and countries to scientific information. Unfortunately in our era the production and distribution  of scientific information is linked to commercial interests and is subjected to the rules of the production and  distribution of material goods. Although the developing countries have to do their utmost to expand their  educational and research capabilities, without access to advanced scientific and technical information the  quantitative growth of education and the creation of research institutions could lead to a deficiency in quality and  competence. Hence the necessary scientific and technological infrastructures upon which development hinges fail  to materialize.
10.10 In the field of information communication, the magnitude of the transformations that arise from modern  technology has not yet been comprehended. Our task is to utilize the immense possibilities offered by  communication tools in the best and most equitable manner. It is clear that in the “new communication strategy”  which is supported and espoused by UNESCO, freedom, independence and diversity of the means of  communication at the international, regional and national levels should be given priority over economic factors.  Furthermore, equal and equitable access to information in the service of the realization of cultural identity should  be fostered and promoted.
10.11 Madam President, in the field of education, too, our world is facing tremendous difficulties. In the  developing countries, the quantitative expansion of education, especially higher education, is not always  accompanied by qualitative growth. In today’s world the qualitative growth of education requires the creation and  expansion of scientific infrastructures, the possibility of access to the latest scientific discoveries, the  incorporation of education and research and the creation of research networks at the national, regional and  international levels. Fulfilling this goal requires a re-evaluation of the structure and objectives of education at the  world level.
10.12 We welcome UNESCO’s declaration of the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace.  The century that is coming to a close has witnessed the bloodiest wars in the history of humankind. To  completely rid the coming century and millennium of clashes and conflicts, which have darkened the history of  our present era, we should always keep in mind the vision of justice promulgated by all great reformers and  divine prophets. We all aspire towards a great ideal, the ideal of peace. We should always remember, however,  that injustice often lies behind many of the wars and conflicts. As long as there are human beings unjustly treated,  as long as there exists discrimination and aggression, one cannot hope to uproot the causes of wars and conflicts.
10.13 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to address this meeting on behalf of a nation and a  government which not only, on account of its faith, culture, civilization and geographical situation, has welcomed  dialogue and mutual understanding, but also, in the last two decades, relying on a spiritual revolution guided by a  wise leadership, has offered to the world a new message of hope. Dialogue is the quintessence of the call of all  prophets, reformers and great thinkers of the world. It is a great honour for me that the General Assembly of the  United Nations, welcoming the proposal of the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, has designated the year
2001 as the Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. We welcome the inclusion of this item in the agenda of the
30th session of the General Conference, and hope that UNESCO will take all necessary measures to support the  activities for the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, identify key partners,  design the strategy, develop a plan of action and mobilize the financial resources needed.
10.14 In line with these activities, we have embarked upon two important and extensive projects. We are  planning to host the 2000 General Assembly of the Third World Academy of Sciences and the Third World  Network of Scientific Organizations late next year in Teheran. We are also preparing a comprehensive exhibition  on Iranian culture, history, civilization and science to be held at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris in the year
10.15 The Islamic Republic of Iran, after 21 years of absence, has presented its candidacy for a seat on the  Executive Board of UNESCO. In view of our profound cultural and historical ties with countries of the Asia-  Pacific region, I am most confident that through its presence in UNESCO’s Executive Board, Iran will be  instrumental in initiating reforms to make UNESCO a more genuinely global organization. I sincerely hope that  this candidacy will enjoy the support of all Member States. Hoping that UNESCO will be able to move further  towards achieving its valuable objectives, I wish this Conference great success. Thank you.  (Ms Moserova resumes the Chair)
11. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency Dr Mostafa Moin, Minister Of Culture and Higher Education of the  Islamic Republic of Iran.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ET INSCRIPTION D'UN NOUVEAU POINT A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued) AND INCLUSION OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENDA  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuacién) E INCLUSION DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL  ORDEN DEL DiA  OPTAHH3AIHSI PABOTEI (npoxomxerme) H BKJIIOUEHHE HOBOTO ITYHKTA B HOBECTKY HS  Je VI Igor 3 aaa wy lols (rb) LS VI pli  THERE C8) ANE— TEA ADLEE
12. The PRESIDENT:  Before we go on with our list of speakers - the next speaker will eventually be His Excellency the  Minister for Education and Sports of Uganda - I should like to present a brief report on this morning’s meeting of  the General Committee, if you will allow me. The General Committee heard the progress reports of  Commission I, the Administrative Commission and the Legal, Credentials and Nominations Committees. The  General Committee also decided to recommend to the plenary the addition of a new item to the agenda of the  General Conference. I will now give the floor to the Secretary to read out the proposed new item.
13. Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le nouveau point dont l'inscription est recommandée par le Bureau à la  Conférence générale s'intitule "Plan Arabia”. Ce point, si son inscription est approuvée par la Conférence  générale, portera le numéro 4.15 et il sera examiné par la Commission IV. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
14.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Secretary.
14.2 Are there any comments or objections? I remind you that a two-thirds majority is necessary for this item  to be included in the agenda. As I see no objection, I take it that the inclusion of the item concerning the “Arabia  Plan” in the agenda is approved.
14.3 We also decided to recommend general guidelines for the examination of draft resolutions having  budgetary implications, which were prepared by the Secretariat on the basis of proposals made during the first  General Committee meeting. Again I give the floor to the Secretary.
15.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le Bureau fait à la Conférence générale une recommandation concernant  le traitement par les commissions de programme des projets de résolution comportant des incidences budgétaires.  En l'occurrence, il s'agit des projets de résolution dont les incidences sont égales ou supérieures à 40.000 dollars.  La recommandation du Bureau est la suivante : elle est brève, je vais vous la lire rapidement.
15.2 Premièrement, les projets de résolution en question ne pourront être proposés pour adoption par une  commission que dans la mesure où la commission aura identifié l'axe d'action ou le chapitre dont les ressources  prévues seront diminuées du montant équivalent au financement demandé dans le projet de résolution.
15.3 Deuxièmement, dans le cas où la commission ne parviendrait pas à un consensus à ce sujet, le Directeur  général pourra être invité à prendre en considération le projet de résolution en question lorsqu'il élaborera le  document 31 C/5, c'est-à-dire le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2002-2003.
15.4 Troisièmement, les bureaux des commissions de programme seront chargés, comme à l'accoutumée, de  préparer les décisions en organisant les consultations nécessaires.
15.5 Enfin, si aucun accord ne pouvait être obtenu selon la procédure que je viens d'indiquer, la question  pourrait être soumise à une réunion conjointe des commissions de programme et de la Commission  administrative. Ces dispositions feront l'objet d'un document INF qui sera distribué dès aujourd'hui à l'ensemble  des délégations et dans toutes les commissions, si, bien entendu, elles sont maintenant approuvées. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
16.1 The PRESIDENT:  You have heard the proposal. Are there any comments or objections to these guidelines? I can see only  approval. Then I consider these guidelines adopted.
16.2 The General Committee also approved the lists of speakers for today and tomorrow, but we all  understand that the lists may be subject to minor changes as time goes on.
16.3 I should now like to acquaint you with the fact that the General Committee also examined my proposal  for the tribute to the Director-General, as set out in document 30 C/BUR/9. I should like to mention that in the  English version, fourth paragraph, there is one small amendment that we decided upon in the Bureau. The word  “could” should be replaced by “will” so the sentence should read: “During the meeting video messages recorded  by various public figures connected with UNESCO will be shown. There will also be musical interludes”. So  with this tiny but significant change, could you approve this document which I proposed? I take it that you  approve. Thank you.
16.4 During the meeting, we also examined requests by the UNESCO Staff Union and the International Staff  Association of UNESCO to take the floor during the debates on items 6.3, 9.9 and 9.10 for STU and items 9.1,
9.9 and 9.10 for AIPU. We decided to recommend that you accept that the two staff associations take the floor in  the Administrative Commission and in the Legal Committee with regard to these items. Does this proposal meet  with your approval?
16.5 I see no objection. It is therefore so decided. Thank you. The Secretary of the General Conference  would like to make a comment.  ARRIERES DE CONTRIBUTIONS  ARREARS IN CONTRIBUTIONS  CONTRIBUCIONES ATRASADAS  SAJIOJDKEHHOCTD IIO B3HOCAM
17.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais appeler l'attention de la Conférence générale sur une autre  recommandation du Bureau qui porte sur l'exercice du droit de vote par les pays en retard dans le paiement de  leurs contributions. Comme vous le savez, aux termes de l'Acte constitutif, les Etats membres ayant des arriérés  de contributions, dans les conditions définies à l'article IV.C ne peuvent, en principe, participer aux votes de la  Conférence générale. Toutefois, celle-ci peut, à titre exceptionnel, les autoriser à voter dans les conditions  précisées à l'article 86 de son Règlement intérieur. Le Règlement prévoit que les Etats qui souhaitent invoquer  ces dispositions doivent adresser leurs communications à la Conférence générale au plus tard trois jours après  l'ouverture de la session. Par conséquent, ce délai expirait en principe hier au soir. Le Bureau recommande  néanmoins à la Conférence générale de le proroger, à titre exceptionnel, Jusqu'au mardi 2 novembre à 13 heures.  S'agissant d'une suspension de l'application d'un article du Règlement intérieur, cette décision devrait être prise à  la majorité des deux tiers.
17.2 Si la Conférence générale approuve cette recommandation, les délégations qui souhaiteraient présenter  une communication tendant au rétablissement de leur droit de vote bénéficieront donc d'une prorogation du délai  statutaire Jusqu'au mardi 2 novembre à 13 heures. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
18. The PRESIDENT:  This is an important matter that has to be decided. The General Committee recommends that this  proposal be adopted and that the proposed prolongation be approved by the General Conference. Are there any  objections to this? Any comments? I see none. I deem that the proposal is adopted. Thank you.
242   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXK/IEHHE BOITPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)
19. The PRESIDENT:  This brings us to the end of my report on this morning’s meeting of the General Committee. We can now  continue with the general policy debate. I apologize to the speakers who were held up by this report. May I now  invite His Excellency the Honourable Edward Khiddu Makubuya, Minister for Education and Sports of Uganda.  Your Excellency, would you please take the floor.
20.1 Mr MAKUBUYA (Uganda):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General and his representative,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to  begin by congratulating you, Madam President and members of the General Committee on your election to the  high offices of this Conference. Allow me to commend the Director-General, the Executive Board and the  Secretariat for their excellent stewardship of our UNESCO up to the close of the second millennium.
20.2 I further commend you for the reorganization and presentation of document 30 C/5. The innovations in  that document will enable the stakeholders to monitor and evaluate the progress and achievements made in  programme implementation and utilization.
20.3 May I take this opportunity also to pay special tribute to Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, for  his vision, zeal and dedication to the work of the Organization. My delegation acknowledges his concern for the  marginalized. Mr Mayor will in particular be remembered for promoting the culture of peace.
20.4 Madam President, as we come to the end of the present Medium-Term Strategy, we recognize the need  to consolidate what has been achieved. In regard to the conclusions of major UNESCO conferences, we appeal  for UNESCO?”s support for capacity-building to translate the action plans into national policies and strategies and  their eventual implementation. I call upon UNESCO not to lose sight of its development cooperation action,  which contributes to the visibility of UNESCO at the level of the Member State. May I point out that the increase  in the budget for the Participation Programme, the mobilization of extrabudgetary resources and the use of NGOs  in the field are key factors for success in this regard.
20.5 The above strategies should be accompanied by increased efficiency in the decentralization process. In  the case of Africa, the two Regional Offices in Nairobi and Dakar need strengthening with increased financial  and human resources. The strengthening of National Commissions should take top priority in the decentralization  process because they are the local “mirrors” of UNESCO. They should be assisted in developing their capacities  to execute projects and programmes on behalf of UNESCO.
20.6 Madam President, turning to the major programmes, Uganda endorses the thrust of Major Programme I,  focusing its attention on providing basic education for all children; promotion of education for marginalized  groups with emphasis on the girl-child and people with disabilities; enhancing guidance and counselling  programmes; fostering literacy and non-formal education among young people and adults; reform of general  secondary and technical and vocational education as envisaged in the recommendations of the Second  International Congress on Technical and Vocational Education just concluded in Seoul in the Republic of Korea,  and a commitment to the implementation of the Declaration and the Framework for Action of the World  Conference on Higher Education.
20.7 Uganda has taken a holistic approach to the promotion of education. Following up the Jomtien  Conference on Education for All, the Government of Uganda embarked on Universal Primary Education (UPE)  in January 1997. Under UPE, the government has abolished school fees and ordinary school charges in  government primary schools. Consequently, enrolment has dramatically risen from 2.6 million in 1996 to
6.5 million pupils in 1999. We have also put in place the Education Strategic Investment Plan covering the years
1998 to 2003. The thrust of the Plan is to pool resources and invite development partners to support national  priorities in education through the sector-wide budget support modality. Copies of the Plan are available to  delegates attending this 30th session of the General Conference.
20.8 Madam President, the fundamental disparity in levels of development among nations is to my mind a  function of their scientific capacities. Therefore in the regional strategies for Africa, quality teaching and research  in basic sciences should be among the priorities. This is because science is the intellectual infrastructure upon  which new technologies and principles of production are created and supported. Uganda is committed to the  implementation of the Budapest Declaration and Science Agenda. I cannot fail to mention with appreciation  UNESCO’s continued support to the biotechnology Chair at Makerere University in Uganda.
20.9 Taking into account the above-mentioned commitments, there is a need to resuscitate the International  Fund for Technological Development in Africa, which was launched by the Director-General in Nairobi, Kenya,
1994. This, coupled with the proposed separate Special Account for Priority Africa, would go a long way  towards addressing some of the priority programmes for Africa, such as those identified by Audience Africa.  These programmes include the University-Industry-Science Partnership (UNISPAR), the World Solar  Programme, the African Network of Scientific and Technological Institutions (ANSTI), the culture of  maintenance programme and the provision of scientific equipment.
20.10 The 1998 UNDP Human Development Report for Uganda strongly recommended the transformation of  the rural populations as a crucial strategy for poverty alleviation and development. Uganda therefore associates  itself with the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) programme as detailed in document 30 C/5.
20.11 On the subject of culture, we are pleased with UNESCO’s support to the African Itinerant College for  Culture and Development. Uganda is hosting its Regional Centre for Anglophone Africa at Makerere University.  The Centre has a UNESCO Chair researching the relationship between culture and traditions and HIV/AIDS  prevention. Uganda supports UNESCO’s role in promoting cultural industries and tourism.
20.12 With regard to information, communication and informatics, which have been integrated, we count on  UNESCO to support capacity-building in these areas, more especially through the training of media professionals  and in the development of materials to reinforce community media.
20.13 Uganda is implementing the pilot project on the multi-purpose Community Telecentre in Africa, located  at Nakaseke. The Telecentre has generated tremendous interest and demonstrated that communication and  information are capable of serving as an engine for rural development. The project also has a telemedicine  component which will enhance quick diagnostic consultations and treatment. Uganda is sincerely grateful to  UNESCO for the location of this pilot project in our country.
20.14 The African Virtual University, which is already operational at three sites in Uganda, equally has great  potential for expanding opportunities for education without borders. We look to UNESCO to support our efforts  to establish the Open University of Uganda which will enhance access to higher education as recommended in  the Plan of Action adopted by the World Conference on Higher Education.
20.15 Madam President, Uganda supports the culture of peace programme and has received with interest the  teaching kit for the programme, which has been distributed to Member States. The kit, together with the “Peace  Pack” distributed under the Associated Schools Project, need to be reproduced in large numbers for schools and  institutes. We therefore look to UNESCO, in partnership with Member States, to mobilize the necessary finances  for this purpose.
20.16 Human rights and peace are inseparable and to this end Uganda has established the Human Rights  Commission and embarked on the revision of the education curriculum to extend the teaching of human rights,  democracy, tolerance and peace throughout all levels of education. In general, Uganda is promoting democracy  through the building and strengthening of institutions of democracy based on the novel Constitution promulgated  in 1995.
20.17 As we conclude this century, Uganda welcomes the declaration of the year 2000 as International Year  for the Culture of Peace. UNESCO should further encourage Member States to renew their commitment to  peace-building so that with the advent of the twenty-first century a fresh look is taken at potential areas of  conflict, to forestall violence. The Associated Schools Project and UNESCO Clubs should continue to champion  the campaign to reduce violence and promote cultural pluralism, Uganda has started activities to mark the  International Year for the Culture of Peace and has translated the Culture of Peace Manifesto into the major local  languages for dissemination and signatures.
20.18 Madam President, Uganda’s vision for the next six-year Medium-Term Strategy is to ensure that  UNESCO permeates the fabric of society in order to achieve the following: execution of the Strategy within the  framework of the intellectual and ethical roles of UNESCO; more collaborative initiatives such as the United
244   Nations System-wide Special Initiative for Africa; mobilization of international cooperation to implement the  plans of action of MINEDAF VII and the OAU Decade of Education for Africa; more support to women, youth  and other marginalized groups; fostering regional integration, international cooperation and peace; recognition of  cultural dimensions in all development planning initiatives; and promotion of environmental conservation for  sustainable development. In conclusion, Madam President, we strongly believe that the achievement of the  above, among others, will enable us to meet the challenges of globalization in the new millennium.
20.19 May I finally reaffirm Uganda’s commitment to the purposes and functions of UNESCO. I say all this  for God and my country. Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your  attention.
21. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Your Excellency the Minister for Education and Sports of Uganda. Sir, the needs  and the aims of your country are well understood and we also understand the stress you lay on education. I  particularly appreciated your reference to marginalized children, that is social or physically handicapped  children, because they represent a most important problem. I now call the next speaker, His Excellency  Mr Mohammed Ahmed Alaswad, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.  Codd! Ly pd! Bua loadl) seul sud! YY)  val uy call Jaa plat pall Jas spell Jlrs all dus) Sal Jas él poli  SOA pt Clad J Ball Boldly loge! cagdgll slugyy shell Babel Glaoi Jus «Sati  CRY: els doled! Sage dz Lil, 3d gill ps Lioño poi dll Tag dus, SHEL pial ol ale  iy sobs § Leddy Jl ne Sel fondo Hale Sa pad sud! J paiiilly dll 4a gil) do dll  LENS BLEU gow Jl wl El aged! HB legals I Lnall Bgl pd, AB oda slo]  SLEMSTy CES BS oly ctl! coral ALI OY Ley 00g sSuisll dabis Le sols 3  poll Jl Bla Adhd Ul § LA wlshioll Las) Lgl LEY Zoleo Solely cmboglall  ip Lady BTL pals obi bl lly] qu reall V JEU Jess le Lee S35 1 da  aS S,LSN yams Si BI, BEY Jaw § was UN pall JI BLEIL plasYl Goi pansy  sly Fb LS coll Li 3! eu os Sale] JleSiwly gins sl dl dl  He Sly Lal pil ID Lbilly od om elilly Bl oyll JI sil ol J by LS VON  ew © Jeli (a 3359 9S gd Aolhios SSD plein OF pr L sA5 «Yo Ryan Lh (wo is dos  ls Lind] S Fo és Aa) dy los pb! REYES 5! SHE (0 JS Log «43d! pall; du 5  sl pp) Si CR I] Pie) gés po 249 cdobill og! SoM PRY sl Loa STs las J gall
30 Oso Oped OS Los BEYER 4 Lay 814 sob dy paleady A> yo i pact  ALE 5 Dl ls Jo pS blows Lydall 4d aly wBy 5 condall ol Ble § 0553 VO
0d 5e Lisl col judd eu, old! ads, poil sly ul Coglidly oylell pais ddl cane slays  pus ol Le Ses 5 5153) 08ST ob Spanx whigius Go Leiile Jo dons Ly doll oda ob Gaul  lal 31 5 LeislSsy slastl Jaa 5305s Dig Led] Lal! wlan! Ll) Glad! lol  Les ball all Lol co abil! Say Lao « LoSDUI  pale of Sieh Gaol Luma là bla VI Ge lad! Gu pdr] Ji ol Je SH SX of YY  Sess] 598 Sym Ling chug al Le sLadl Jl $35 5 Fly Tl old SE sant ga  Gab J] randall Leal olay Lal gia Es Teale | Laos pas J Las Jostl Bas lunes Jad!  po all Lol nisl Lis gli I (PO Sa Jb 355 5e palall
245   BOL Lela Why Lon! pull po on Jo xsl 330 ol Swed Jo Gas di LS Ye  alll Jgall Lalall lpi) gid false Lolaial Jo oly laf Longs 31 dal Ngai) Chu  PI Eas! wis Gob os UL sels FUXSOU Lilly Lull Gilad) blasy Jobs dle À
(0 >is « Lo of 93S Jw © duo Jolly do sal | Jal Oe 3 a4]! Bas © pes ; ols EY SI  osé Jal Jl dsolÏl Jel ee oil fs BSS 0 >a  Labo os LiLo us: 0 54 > oe fous AI! Lay his o> a (Fh Yy,n  BE, Le R Ibëlmolls ha 50 1 prog S51) IA Lol oly ÉTAT si à Lee  Glo UI Hadlow plainly gall ble JI AUS 42535 pgoy SLi SLI Bly pol  JULY 3slyy imlinls laall Sula pe ole 5 Lean of JI La puis of a V5 58 NT Lele  BU ay al pags aslasinly SLU sway LENS cobslall wld Je Luda agli;  Jip le Labill ons Lpmsar ladl 03a a3) [Sly CSS § lei) (ny BUS 453355 iil  ptt lod LS LOI LES] 450 3 hal alah els Zearll spall 50 ssl  Boga SSI Edsall clabill Bly sass! Blylusy Sia! sail] Tae lo Tlyadl slags! of YY,  amy Lol>y cables] JI JULY Lygs Co axl Jf Sok le cdebidl Ga à Blo] ins polos  aod (51 Sadr Nes 4oiyll odd By1,8Lg Jl bln lS | Jawad à 8550 oly pes Las  LA SUS) LA red  dés gSUL pois] Ol Sr ¢ gaball Ly pun land] ply 032 TS us of KE (had l Saw YA  dobry Gadsll 4 Lal) LG As oll 5S bls Topas olin 55 31 (api apd! JI Lads  ee) APPA sl CI PRE] Sil] © FESR Log A5 sŸls ¢ Baal dobilf ola 3,410] $ dolgo iN]  dy 53 Lulu) dd là5 53 gd pla plod of LJ > ul RY-S © JEG: sl 39d! CXF.) © goss ET)  Lez CY of Code er RY «8lgludly Jan alls Sled 7305 a 4d iia ¢ Jud] palais Lilo  Cams le Sg AJ Lad Ls gab Wel REYES PEER 5959 Sas Ly, doll ola $ CITY =  pSale pol « pSS Lai
(22.1) Mr ALASWAD (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honour for me, Madam President, to congratulate you, on  behalf of my country, on your election as President of this Conference. I wish you all success in your important  task. I should also like to take advantage of this opportunity to offer my greetings to Mr Federico Mayor and  express my great esteem for his efforts to develop and enhance the functioning of this Organization, despite the  difficult circumstances confronting it. He sought to consolidate the ethical gains which UNESCO has consistently  advocated, including the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome, the culture of peace programme, the ethics  of information and the revision of the International Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event  of Armed Conflict, besides a number of successful programmes (which I mention by way of example only, this list  is not exhaustive), including the Priority Africa programme, the programmes relating to the issues of women and  young people, the programmes relating to the strengthening of human rights and those that have been implemented  in the field of culture and the world heritage. Other major accomplishments have been the revision of the General  History of Africa and the writing of the History of Humanity.
(22.2) It also gives me great pleasure to speak of the constructive, fruitful cooperation between my country and  the Organization in the course of recent years. That cooperation, which has amounted to over $100 million,  illustrates the importance my country attaches to UNESCO and its effective role in the fields of education, science  and culture, as well as its efforts to bring about peace, combat poverty, and raise the standards of living of the  people of its Member States. As a further illustration of our view of the importance of this Organization, the  Jamahiriya has recently signed a number of other agreements for the development of education programmes in the  Jamahiriya itself and elsewhere in Africa, for a value of approximately $220 million.
(22.3) At the end of the twentieth century, at a time when humanity is facing serious threats, such as growing  illiteracy, increasing poverty, dwindling resources, environmental pollution, desertification, water shortages, drug  addiction and the spread of AIDS, this Organization, given its responsibilities, is a suitable instrument for the  tracing of practical policies aimed at combating the various scourges I have just mentioned, provided the Member  States give it their support and work together to take the necessary measures, thereby enabling UNESCO to play its  designated role.
(22.4) My country wishes to reaffirm that lifelong education remains a top priority, inasmuch as education is the  backbone of development programmes and consequently is a necessary condition of the eradication of poverty and  illiteracy. Here we see how effective a role UNESCO can play in helping Member States to evaluate and upgrade  their education systems and orient their education programmes towards meaningful applications of science for the  eradication of vocational illiteracy, which is the form of illiteracy that will affect the coming age.
(22.5) UNESCO should also strengthen its efforts to integrate the natural and social sciences with a view to  assimilating the rapid changes the world is currently experiencing. Moreover, it should devote greater attention to  the task of strengthening the scientific capabilities of the developing countries through the exchange and sharing of  scientific and technical knowledge. This will enable them to use new networks to take advantage of databases. As a  result, the gap between the developed and developing countries in the field of technology will become narrower,  and the brain drain from the latter to the former may be stemmed to some extent.
(22.6) Ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the third millennium, a new phase in the history of humanity is  beginning, one that confronts UNESCO with a special responsibility in view of the nature of its function as a  crucible in which the cultures of the world’s nations meet and mingle. In this phase, it will also be incumbent upon  UNESCO to continue to play a pioneering role in consolidating the principle of a culture of peace, preserving  different nations’ identities and cultures, protecting the human heritage and maintaining its diversity, and  remaining alert to the dangers of globalization and the use of new technologies, in which we place such great hope.  I must note at this point that some of those technologies have been perverted to take advantage of the innocence of  children and exploit them sexually via the Internet. Similarly, women’s bodies have been degraded into an article  of commerce, a culture of violence is being propagated, and the culture of some societies is being portrayed in a  distorted and defamatory fashion in the media. These regrettable phenomena should spur our Organization to make  greater efforts to address them. Human capabilities should be harnessed for the benefit of humanity.
(22.7) The adoption of the zero growth principle in the preparation of the budget, and the placing of UNESCO  on the same footing as other specialized international organizations, are harmful to the Organization in that its  ability to carry out its role is thereby impaired, and to that extent it is weakened. This is particularly unfortunate  after its success in reaching out to all parts of the world in recent years. In approving this budget in its present  form, we are deciding to restrict UNESCO?s role and aspirations in the period that lies ahead.
(22.8) Madam President, before I conclude my remarks, I must add that it gives me great pleasure to  congratulate Mr Matsuura on his election as Director-General. I wish him all success in carrying out his functions  at the head of this venerable Organization, which stands as proudly as ever in addressing the challenges  confronting it. Lastly, gathered here as we are at this session, the last of the present century, it is fitting that we  should dream of a world characterized by a human culture, appropriate education and more noble learning, a world  in which tolerance and a spirit of dialogue prevail, a world ruled by justice and equality. We must all do our part to  infuse this Organization with a new spirit and the strength to enable it to realize our hopes and aspirations for the  third millennium. Thank you for your attention. Peace be upon you.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency the Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. I  appreciate that he kept within the time limit and yet was able to tell us many things. I now call His Excellency  Dr Mohammed Abdul Rahim Kafoud, Minister for Education and Higher Education of Qatar. Your Excellency,  you have the floor.  (Ghd) 00S dl YE)  ceologadly Salad cplall AM aadl SSI pedal Gedy oud] «pled pois) dandy Saad  sls ¢ yd ga 294 Os Ls pui of pS sls ds fs © 5 PE AS 4g a! dos 9 ste pL!  c= Gud gil! Js + Lai 3,91 el Les is! dus Los . =e 55 Leu) gs ec Less  Dsl Llially polyl pants Auld SLI Susu LS Se Jeolgill pglaads cog Ball ojlast  © géls}l SY al Gud gi Ld 9S sŸls ¢ poi 3d! laa Jl pkey © SY doi} pel ¢ Oo]  Soludly gS gall pled! all sud) Lai Sadly oes gael! Dhue wold cold! BY ages
3 Lig)  Lys JI pd Gr; 2005 Lois L (2 ail of El Isms! cenlapudly Sol else YY  Bla psi Gay ee 5 Wald Duals Go 89000 00a > jaifall Lusi 850d) Mio LE Ago sagd  pag) colds (ghd Ugo pol cpu IT dil 0 sax Hill ga clo Sy Go Bile leg pe  ly paid old JS 8 531 5 yaad |  HE Upay Talay Lay dl lobed! yobs Olas § 95 0: pateilly Sal Jal 5 Ni vey
3 Lill why Ge gd (gall La ll lili] Lato phil abeil Lgl ola! p50 ols]  Logpde 65 Ugs jai aid (SPU plaid] poh Lao 3 Ll paleil] Lie gif) LUSH Lady bols lb]  labia ly pled] CSS on OSSI IBY Legoge Ladle Jb] 5 SPW! pala] ghd Solis  Gale wl piill me CST Ge Lib oS Abels Lidl BE J) Doll ably Jord! Gog Laid  wlll mo psy Las 6 olially WI dal Jobs yobs Lgl US 31) 85 SLI Longs 01 did  Flatt plaill 4965 3 Lebo SON Ll! SSII Uplate! bl § cgola®Yl lead! § Ll  po Us go JS) carla] Sill mo SI Led 0315s clon] Lips mo Tpalell Zyl Le ibolSs  Lally Lipdly All BUS Ball § Lois Lille paling py wlalasl Larabie § wpb plaid] Joly  Led] Soendly (dbl dona! duyladl Lug) SS god DS dg wl Os on, doll ptedls a,  Sy cAÉGUS Lolly Lela Sled! § ols! Gi> oe >; Ls bog Ll Less ba, Luisly
3 soy Syshll Luopladl iol § Lwlod UgSo olSh alall Ll Sogaill Lesbléy Laid] gas 423  pleas ad, lo Joally caalall alas] poly oghs Jo BE go cusp VS Jal oy ypuahil] Uses]  isi ly Lar ils Dalal eolamdad] Slain Lgl  i Bymill Guns J] sSeisdl Talis (Solus Sb) F ond bE Wyo of 1 alll Jill 5 (LSU YE  arly 551 enisall de lil 2ST 1599 Lele diable Lucia EI Solels « poämalls plall  Logynoy Tif loggar BB Ugo cdd; iy Lawlll Lula! Jobo I> oo AN LEE moines!  Glos à 05S «shill paizally lis Libgll uit) LS § gens lI Lago Liz slsiSilly plat 25-0  polall 03g) Ja¥l plasmin as Wily wlghs spuds poll Gu OB Ales els Lung. bale Loaiill Jol  La La VI Tas hans 5e Ugh aglys 5 L mo coslail JS § SLI psimall sgh) Li of Silly
3 mS bled] cabs 5 (PUI palailly paleilly dell 3 1550 Alas GbE Ugo 0b cpalall plas pass  ead SSE mo ¢ All ala! gina] le andi Log Blally Leburyy AURAI plat malo yobs Ja  lll) Glas! le Cll caps cpslall sigd (5,851 JLasiLly daly abil Cola! Je  a 513659 doll  sol 3 call Ol uel pas Ge EL plains 5 Uys § BUI os SU! Jae § (WE veo  hais Tl lnSL sb J) Gage $1 CSN ly Gidlly BURY Lib ulna! sL33L Loge yo 930m  Ge gos Bgl Sle Balls cilia! opi maddy asi SAI Gey larly SSH SN  oll le LOGI 28,1 Janis) Ls AE LS il dy Si ball laa gry ET Ta
3 iS,ally J Jona! § danni Bll LAB go BW 50505 JI grey olan of LS «Tonal  sl planed! Blaid § VS ies cond ur ES ula! Jolsll pss 1 Adsl LU  lbs Gla yg psy cpDLf BUH Spall plally JUAN § 45,0000 ¢sSuipal Ait ALI ual S55.
3  il a 4olidg Kiso 3 PM KY) of as ey ait, wh © Sle oh Cand] ss
3 pod! dus lé alos Les oscil LelaT co dabaill oda cubis 5 Slab (Slatin Cage ol as ade  gôJl Jie  LAS § Yall gay Geel) sol pl pel of coldly Soll whe YEY  Dols wom — Uys Lers oo — de pl 31 CELA pall) lolañol JS 2 Ja dw gill Laas! iu  Lill § Le asl bli Dosw pd! wblas¥l p25 5 mall le TU ASS wlan 5  olde Jol pill Lans Vy cles ably JI Boal old pol cololilog Sud! Leios 01 805-31 LJ)  SAW lly «ally SEI palit) ALI je53lly LAU club! je530y € JWI palailly LSI pls  ps lle wily 01,155 Ge wii ode 4] clog b wy Je ob [La yoy> LS cpl)  ve ob Lolly gold pode Jbl § Spins pulpy log he JI Lebisas lo Sud Basle  Sy ll Gai dlr § Saad! Glad) (38Uy pales BUS, (55005 SaieS sSeisdl 598 35059 Ye)  cella! Gu pleat sys Je Jolly Lig Jy Tigadl JG Cline (agg BUI Gy fsa  pel] 5555 JUS LENS wlaaiSll jum Bip Jo IS pel 13a sud cust ily YEA  olde slasly plud¥l gis Sade! maizall plis Jolt OMY BUS 08 540 Lay pis Ceol)  pod doll Lyman! D Laiel 2055 Ulam U3 of Sa Yy all JL obs 5 0b Jha ld gb  SS 8 pada of à Ng (Yes ple Jsl> mo LI BUS Jæl oe Jarl dbs ll oe Sax  leo oo Y sl duel ail sly] Jo poy pail) Fo wlSsladl à pis SI) oll RPS  oor laa À opr agg § oll 715831 45 Wh JI . gl ia) däsoall aia! 2  ie Aabill AbtsT mua 0585 of Je Soa 3a § bis 51 à Dll ja Jb Lull 6 oeShe  Let gels DS 06ST ed Ju [I ais VIS 1555 ols cube kil BIS § Dag ag  pai) Un, Yr NY ala DSlially auld! paper Flaill ofpy digg cela SW LL D  Dally droll 505 Jodll 55h35 mobs: Los Lgidlidy Less 3 Aggy Legg Gus de Lede 3 pols  AVIpYR IAI de sby plat Sassll oss AU elals Wily Goll me pana Lay SI le sais IL  polally Lull las 5 65 Us FERRIC ERD] gs Bs Leb cofors Ady JI Luddy  JLa5Yl, Bll
5, Led] S,LSN LS gu 159 Se 5 Ll lad ge 6,51 Legare SiS puis J s# TEA  Oo eS sas g obs das gal UL 5 03S pol wlan 235 deal le 2ST suns yf lls  los do Shey Lila] wlasdl pias Je Lai 35354 phil 5053U co pial Lawl 8501 3 Jgull  Jad 550 Else LA pass cad! Jal 5 Oslill 3 ayo windy calls ASIA aio ad
5 ps alo lsll Busy Leoasiss LA slas¥ls lop dlly pully wll idl Bilal las  oly lbs USB Gill las Gay sSedpd] dyer Lead les in Coed! Ly lly ly cil
249   SH Cll lll Jgal gS CS Lolay Dll bill § sSipll ColSL $ollly 5,801 pe  bd do A06 059 dnd  Gabi & ied! Leal YoY ola) oil) Lula) AL BE Uso sy Su LOB YEN  pel bis, RENE [RCH PRES) © LSall wlakdsdl sla] cwlydedl uasy CASE wisl > JalSS JB] pass YA 890) Sasiall Lol3all Cie Jo NI SILL à gig Ly combsll AIS)  Lalas) Lesloshg gall oda plogl of SLs § 353 gs Bana clel Le Lull Lol> cJp0i
3a § (BLY 55 LS ALI wily wala 4 el Cal fin Jo STI Jaz bo can] lo ASS Y  Labial, Lola! dail) wali) Gas pf VMS gala) ESlally pall pgp ol dl bY  Gail oslo Ô ol! dés Loon oa] fig RY) © el oY HS ho Fa Lod dos, et  Pll co Räbill oda Ja) Loa sll polly Glas Lad Los oe Je pe dus yl iS  — Suds! Labi Jos Gabolg (ally Lo05all Jo BB H Ge ail La ay — 3851 of 290 YEN)  Lb do mb sSupasd aud! Salad ail, SAN Gall 8 opel LS cabal) og) Upas gues Jo  SHY Go ESI Gig OF 0] puny plbinl 155 gSusall 4500] 3,8 I> TRS gg de Ady  Asbiall spall 5 ssl spd) ails Gg Jal LS LU oda 96 § 4 Su Jb Bye  Sy Al Lamy pS polly Alnilly Gell US assay oS) gaily Leper SSI
(24.1) Mr KAFOUD (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen.  Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you. I should like to begin by offering, on behalf of the  delegation of the State of Qatar and on my own behalf, hearty congratulations to the President on her election. I  wish her all success in conducting the work of this session of the General Conference. I should also like to express  my appreciation for the important role played by the Chairperson of the Executive Board and the other Members of  the Board, who since the end of the last session of the Conference have spared no effort in studying the Draft  Programme and Budget for the coming biennium. They have submitted to this Conference invaluable observations  and recommendations which will unquestionably help to define an appropriate framework for the programmes and  budget for the next two years. In addition, I wish to thank the Director-General of UNESCO and his colleagues and  the staff of the Secretariat for their efforts they have made and are still making to issue documents and, in general,  prepare for this Conference.
(24.2) Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission I shall begin by reviewing briefly some of the main  developments that have occurred in the State of Qatar since the last session of the General Conference in the fields  of education, science and culture, thanks to His Highness, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar,  without whose concern and support those developments would not have taken place.
(24.3) First, as regards the field of education, the State of Qatar has prepared, in the context of education policy  development, a public education policy project setting forth its basic terms of reference, with a view to integrating  development priorities into a setting of the terms and conditions required for qualitative competence in education.  In the area of secondary education, Qatar has completed an integrated project for secondary education development  in the context of an objective effort to address imbalances among educational inputs on the one hand and the needs  of development and the labour market on the other, taking into account the urgent need to provide our students  with a comprehensive global culture that will enable them to adapt to contemporary changes in science and the  world of work. Concurrently, we have undertaken the comprehensive development of technical and vocational  education, geared to global economic change, drawing, for that purpose, on world expertise for the development of  industrial and commercial education, curriculum development and course planning. Curriculum development, in  particular, went through a quantitative and qualitative transition: scientific knowledge had to be integrated with  practical applications, while a balance between quantity and educational level had to be maintained at every stage.  The outcome has been that our curricula are now characterized by global trends, values and concepts reflecting the  culture of science, the environment, love, tolerance, peace and justice. These trends, values and concepts express  Qatar’s orientation towards the consolidation of the practice of democracy, and its advocacy of democracy as a  human right and as a fundamental condition of social, economic and cultural life, including, in particular,  development and the aims of development. Teachers, for their part, are a basic constituent of our evolving  educational policy and a pivotal component in our developmental priorities. Accordingly, Qatar intends to develop  teacher training programmes, and is working to upgrade teachers’ professional qualifications to include recent  developments in the various fields of science, education and technology.
(24.4) Secondly, as regards the field of science, the State of Qatar is endeavouring, in the framework of  UNESCO’s principles, to narrow the gap between science and society and to restore confidence in scientific  institutions, in the hope of enabling those institutions to play a larger role in overcoming the problems which are  likely to confront the various sectors of society through the application of appropriate scientific solutions. Qatar  has also wasted no time in making carefully planned efforts to endow science and technology with a leading role in  the country’s development planning, which is aimed at promoting our country into the ranks of scientifically and  industrially advanced States. The new century will thus see Qatar making confident strides towards the optimal use  of science and technology for the development of every aspect of society, despite the challenges that may confront  us as a result. As regards science teaching, Qatar’s Ministry of Education and Higher Education has made  substantial progress in the field of curriculum development. Science teaching is now firmly tied in with the real  world, and new scientific developments are taken into account. Emphasis is consistently placed on practical  applications, research, investigation and creativity in science. Students are trained to acquire and develop scientific  skills.
(24.5) Thirdly, as regards the field of culture, this is a major concern of His Highness the Emir. He has recently  issued a decree establishing a National Council for Culture, the Arts and Heritage, whose mandate is to develop  cultural gains, nurture intellectual production and creativeness, maintain the national heritage, encourage the fine  arts and preserve national traditions and antiquities. The Council is currently working on a permanent cultural  strategy aimed at activating cultural activity at the local level. It is also seeking to strengthen relations with  specialized international organizations in the field of culture, and to foster participation in international events that  enhance cultural interaction between peoples. By way of illustration, the Council accepted the invitation of the  Director-General of UNESCO to participate in the celebration of the International Year for the Culture of Peace,  and in that connection organized an event at which a number of highly regarded Qatari intellectuals expressed their  views on the culture of peace, the concept of coexistence, tolerance and non-violence. In addition, a number of  cultural, educational, social, scientific and youth-oriented institutions and centres are currently engaged in  preparing various programmes and activities in the context of Qatar’s celebration of the International Year for the  Culture of Peace through the UNESCO Associated Schools.
(24.6) Ladies and gentlemen, this session of the General Conference is the last session of the twentieth century,  which has been characterized by both sweetness and bitterness, both achievement and disaster. Since the last  session of the Conference, points of tension have continued to appear in various parts of the world, resulting, in  most cases, in violations of human rights, including the right of peoples to self-determination, and losses of lives  and property. There can be no doubt that we must respond to this situation, difficult as it is, and bleak though its  consequences are, by holding more firmly to the aims that this Organization was established to pursue, so that it  will, we must hope, sow the seeds of peace in the minds of human beings.
(24.7) Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed programme for the coming biennium, which is the last part of the  implementation of the Medium-Term Strategy, constitutes an extension of the previous programme, in my view,  inasmuch as it is not characterized by any major changes or innovations. However, the programme has taken the  orientations outlined at recent international conferences organized by UNESCO and related United Nations  organizations and the commitments associated with those orientations, and translated them into practical reality. I  refer in particular to the International Conference on Adult Education, the World Conference on Higher Education,  the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for Development, the International Congress on Technical  and Vocational Education and the World Conference on Science. The programme has also sought to take the  resolutions adopted by those conferences and the international appeals issued by them calling for support for  UNESCO, and convert them into continuing projects and programmes, in the framework of the Draft Programme  and Budget for the 2000-2001 biennium, with a view to enhancing UNESCO’s role as an educational, cultural and  scientific forum for debating human rights issues, promoting dialogue among different cultures and different  religious and spiritual traditions and working to prevent conflict between civilizations.
(24.8) The proposed programme also reiterates the importance of consolidating ethical gains in the coming  biennium, as well as the consequent commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the need to  make appropriate preparations with respect to the responsibilities of the present generation towards future  generations. This prompts me to add my backing to the General Assembly’s expression of renewed support for the  Universal Declaration and its Programme of Action for the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of  Peace. The implementation of this pioneering programme will undoubtedly change behaviour, consolidate values  and result in the institutional changes that are essential if the roots of violence and conflict are to be extirpated.  Accordingly, I support the relevant proposal contained in document 30 C/5. It is my view that education will  continue to be the cornerstone of any activity in this field, provided this aim permeates the Organization’s activities  in all sectors, and provided education continues to be a fundamental element in all UNESCO programmes without  exception. Document 30 C/5, the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2000-2001 biennium, marks an  improvement as regards presentation, as it is clear, readable and transparent, and it also shows how much progress  has been made towards results-based programming and budgeting. Moreover, it is consistent with the principles  and guidelines laid down by the General Conference in accordance with 29 C/Resolution 87. Lastly, document 30  C/5 corresponds to Qatar’s own strategic orientations in the field of education, science, culture and communication.
(24.9) Finally, I should like to make a few additional observations of a general nature. First, my delegation  would like to reiterate the importance of the policy of decentralization, which, together with the delegations of  many other States, it supported at the 29th session of the General Conference. I should also like to re-emphasize the
251   importance of strengthening field units and giving them the status of entities enjoying full partnership rights. I  advocate the enhancement of their role in development cooperation and in providing direct assistance to Member  States for the design, preparation and evaluation of strategies, programmes and projects. They muster  extrabudgetary resources, a function approved by all Member States, and they reflect UNESCO’s vitality.  Accordingly, I should like to see an increase in support, in terms of both human and financial resources, for  UNESCO’s Offices in the Arab region, and in particular the Regional Office for the Arab States of the Gulf, which  is hosted and supported by the State of Qatar.
(24.10) Secondly, as regards the proposed budget for the 2000-2001 biennium, my delegation considers that it is  important to continue the application of austerity measures, to achieve savings and to reduce, insofar as possible,  administrative and support services and staff costs, so as ultimately to remain within the budget ceiling approved at  the 29th session. Member States, especially developing Member States, should not be asked to bear additional  burdens. The situations of those States and the economic crises affecting them are well known to all and should be  taken into account. In this context, I should like to note that the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2000-2001  biennium does not make adequate provision for the actual specific needs of the Arab region, especially in  connection with the issue of illiteracy. Similarly, I should also like to emphasize the importance of enhanced  cooperation and coordination between UNESCO and such organizations as the Islamic Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization, the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization and the Arab Bureau for  Education in the Gulf States, especially in matters relating to programmes aimed at the States of that part of the  world.
(24.11) I should like to emphasize that, despite my remarks on the programme and budget and UNESCO?s  working methods, I have the utmost respect for this Organization. I should also like to express my esteem for  Mr Federico Mayor and offer him my sincere thanks for his commendable efforts during his term of office as  Director-General of UNESCO. Thanks to his effective direction, many notable achievements have been recorded to  his credit, and his name will live long in the history of this Organization. My best wishes to his successor,  Mr Matsuura, the Director-General-elect. Thank you for your attention, and I wish the Conference all success.  Peace and the Blessings and Mercy of God be upon you all.
25. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency the Minister for Education and Higher Education of Qatar. I now  call His Excellency the Honourable Burchell Whiteman, Minister for Education and Culture of Jamaica. Your  Excellency has the floor.
26.1 Mr WHITEMAN (Jamaica):  Madam President, permit me first of all to congratulate you very sincerely on your election to the Chair  of this Conference and on your sensitive conduct of the proceedings so far. I trust that my colleague delegates  will permit you to preserve your equanimity and grace as we proceed.
26.2 May I also pay tribute to the Director-General for the role he has played during his tenure and in  particular, as my colleague from Denmark remarked, on raising the visibility of UNESCO and seeking to  establish important partnerships with stakeholders at every level.
26.3 We wish for the new Director-General a successful administration and trust that he will be guided and  supported by the collective wisdom, skill and goodwill which reside in the Organization and in its constituent  Member States and which is expressed particularly through the committed and conscientious Executive Board.
26.4 Madam President, Chairperson of the Executive Board, representative of the Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in strict chronological terms 1984 1s 15 years behind us. The  Orwellian spectre of Big Brother has been replaced by more benign manifestations of distributed information the  use of which has for the most part empowered rather than controlled individuals. The decade that is drawing to a  close has seen the consolidation of political and trading alliances that change the realities of the exercise of  economic and political power. In general, large nations and small island States, the earth’s richest countries and  the so-called developing countries have accepted both the challenges and the opportunities of globalization and  free trade.
26.5 But we still search for answers in respect of international peace and security, equity and the creation and  preservation of just societies. We seek also to sustain economic growth, while providing reasonable guarantees of  employment for the working-age members of the 6 billion inhabitants of our planet. The tension remains, Madam  President, between the industrial, technological and resource-blessed “haves” and the “have-nots”. And these  groupings and the tensions that exist within countries also exist between countries in the larger global  community. The ongoing disparities, the potential for serious social conflict — either large-scale or intensely  localized — cannot be removed by recourse to any single solution. But the identification of the steps to their  resolution has not been beyond us.
26.6 At the very inception of this worthy Organization, UNESCO, the “minds of men” — the minds of  persons — was our immediate focus. More recently, in preparation — through the Delors Commission — for  education in the twenty-first century, we identified the four pillars of the education structure for our time:  learning to know, to be, to do and, very importantly, to live together.
26.7 Madam President, as we celebrate the strength of our Organization, which has survived and grown  significantly over these past 52 years, as we mark the transition to new executive direction and move towards that  twenty-first century, I urge that we make education the central and pre-eminent focus of our forward thrust. Let  the minds of men, women, youth and children be our critical intervention points.
26.8 I remind the distinguished delegates that this call is consistent with the programme called “Focus on the  Caribbean” which is now before us. This is essentially a programme for the accelerated growth, quality  enhancement and expansion of education within the subregion. We have placed it on the agenda not out of  insular concern but because we see the Caribbean as a microcosm of the challenges and opportunities of the  larger world. We have faced many challenges in the subregion. We still have many rivers to cross. But we also  have much to share. Focus on the Caribbean provides an opportunity for interventions that allow us to innovate,  evaluate and replicate, and to observe and report on the success stories of racial and cultural integration and  harmonization. Beyond that, there is the opportunity to provide models of successful application of education and  training systems to the retooling process which permits effective participation in the world economy. As  important is the creation and strengthening of personal and national self-confidence and relations of mutual  respect.
26.9 There are, as I said, no single solutions. But I urge UNESCQO’s focus on education, reflected in  supporting literacy, basic education and the adaptation and strategic use of modern technology to permit its  effective use in information and education generally.
26.10 Madam President, I am not unaware of the significant initiatives which have been pursued so far. The  comments I make now are in the interests of allowing us to respond in a more dynamic manner to the imperatives  of the present and the future. On behalf of the Caribbean, and as the representative of the Government of  Jamaica, I urge three things.
26.11 Firstly, a strategic shift of programme resources towards the effective retooling of the world’s education  systems both to level the playing-field and to make it a more effective platform for social and economic growth.  This would mean among other things a restructuring of the Organization itself and the scaling down or out of  some of the peripheral activities for the next three or four biennia, beginning, of course, with the next one, not the  present one. It would mean establishing and sustaining a stronger role for National Commissions to ensure a  more strategic and efficient use of the Organization’s resources. If Member States are being asked in every  sphere of governance and management to prioritize and sharpen focus, to be efficient, to be performance-oriented  and results-oriented, we must demand no less of our Organization, UNESCO.
26.12 Secondly, a stronger role for UNESCO in building partnerships at national, regional and international  levels to increase the flow of funding into education and training for the Member States and communities that  need it most. Of course, it is expected that individual States must as a precondition establish their own resource  base for education and we have been doing that as much as we can. However, it is also the case that equalizing  opportunities within States, and creating social justice generally, requires some supplementary, compensatory  intervention which is often precluded by the debt burden. UNESCQ’s brokering role could be of very significant  value in this area in the years ahead.
26.13 Finally, in support of its thrust to make an impact on the minds of men, the intensification of efforts by  UNESCO to engage the major players in the information and communication technology economy in expanding  educational opportunities for both the adult population and the formal system. There are three important aspects  of this. One is to give the broad masses of people an ear and another is to give them a voice. It is important not  only to access and receive other people’s information. People all want an opportunity to tell their own story as  well. And thirdly, to the extent that all our countries, rich and poor, have wide access to technology, to that extent  will each of our peoples have opportunities to participate in the creation of new knowledge, new products and the  shaping of the new technology as well. Ignorance, Madam President, is a great divider. The information and the  information technology divide must be bridged.
26.14 Madam President, Jamaica and the Caribbean remain committed to the principles on which UNESCO is  founded. We have the will, we have the people, we have the experience and we have the structures. We look  forward to the opportunities to make a difference as we move to build a new social order in this brave new world  which can be ours if we both wish and work to make it so. I thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency the Honourable Burchell Whiteman, Minister for Education and  Culture of Jamaica, for a most enlightened and pertinent presentation which is certainly appreciated by all of us.  The next speaker is His Excellency Mr Pierre Nzila, Minister for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education of  Congo. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
28.1 M. NZILA (Congo) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames  et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi au nom du gouvernement  congolais et de son président, M. Denis Sassou-Nguesso, d'associer ma voix a celle des orateurs qui m'ont  précédé a cette tribune pour féliciter Mme Jaroslava Moserovd pour sa brillante élection a la présidence de la  Conférence générale de l'UNESCO. Nous sommes convaincus, Madame la Présidente, que sous votre dynamique  et clairvoyante direction - dont nous avons déjà eu la preuve depuis trois jours - notre Conférence sera une  réussite totale.
28.2 Le Congo est heureux de participer à cette 30e session après avoir été absent à la précédente en raison  de graves problèmes internes. Notre joie est d'autant plus grande que nous croyons en l'UNESCO et que notre  volonté de maintenir - voire de renforcer - notre coopération avec cette institution des Nations Unies n'a pas  fléchi. Le Congo soutient l'UNESCO dans sa lutte contre toutes les formes d'injustice, contre l'ignorance, pour  défendre des idéaux de paix et de démocratie et la liberté de la presse et pour encourager la compréhension  mutuelle internationale. Il lui demande de faire davantage pour l'allégement de la dette des pays les moins  favorisés afin que le troisième millénaire soit plus propice à leur développement socio-économique.
28.3 Au seuil de ce troisième millénaire, une question capitale nous préoccupe tous. Allons-nous le franchir  en traînant tel un boulet la longue liste des conflits armés qui n'épargnent aucun continent. Pour mon pays qui  vient de vivre les affres de la guerre civile, il n'est pas de voeu plus cher que de voir non seulement ces conflits  armés prendre fin, mais aussi et surtout les dépenses militaires diminuer au profit de l'éducation, de la recherche  scientifique, de la culture pour un monde où il ferait bon vivre.
28.4 Madame la Présidente, s'agissant du Projet de programme et de budget qui nous est soumis, nous  voudrions tout d'abord marquer notre satisfaction devant les heureuses innovations dont a fait l'objet le C/5,  notamment son découpage en rubriques présentant successivement les antécédents, les stratégies et les résultats  attendus, et offrant le choix entre deux scénarios budgétaires.
28.5 Le grand programme "L'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie" appelle de la part de mon pays un  certain nombre de remarques. La réforme de l'enseignement devra prendre en compte à la fois la nécessité de  promouvoir la formation professionnelle des jeunes et les besoins de la société du développement et de  l'information. A cet effet, la Conférence générale devrait examiner avec beaucoup d'attention les conclusions de  la Conférence mondiale sur l'enseignement supérieur qui s'est tenue à Paris en octobre 1998 et celles du Congrès  international sur l'enseignement technique et professionnel organisé à Séoul en avril 1999. Ces deux réunions ont  jeté les bases d'une véritable réforme de ces types d'enseignement. La reconstruction multiforme de  l'enseignement de base dans les pays sortant d'un conflit devra être renforcée à la fois sur le plan des structures,  de l'équipement et de la formation des formateurs. Enfin, il est à regretter que la lutte contre l'analphabétisme,  combat de toujours de l'UNESCO, ne se voie apparemment accorder qu'une bien maigre place dans le  programme de l'Organisation. Le Congo est d'autant plus soucieux de participer pleinement aux activités inscrites  au grand programme I qu'à l'issue d'un conflit dont son système éducatif a beaucoup souffert il apparaît  nécessaire de reconstruire ce dernier.
28.6 En ce qui concerne le grand programme II, nous sommes conscients qu'il ne peut y avoir de  développement économique et social sans un minimum de maîtrise endogène de la science et de la technologie.  Notre pays peut se réjouir de disposer d'un certain nombre de scientifiques, mais leur travail est rendu très  difficile par l'insuffisance du matériel et des équipements scientifiques ; aussi souhaite-t-il encourager, à travers  l'UNESCO, les échanges et les partages. Le Congo approuve le soutien apporté aux stratégies visant à renforcer  les capacités nationales et le transfert des connaissances par l'amélioration de l'enseignement des sciences  fondamentales et des sciences de l'ingénieur au niveau universitaire, par la constitution de partenariats  interdisciplinaires, l'élargissement de l'accès à l'information et la mise en place de nouveaux mécanismes de  collaboration en sciences sociales, auxquels les pays en développement seraient davantage associés. Le Congo  porte un grand intérêt au suivi des recommandations de la Conférence mondiale sur la science. Enfin, mon pays  partage le souci de la communauté internationale de préserver l'environnement et les ressources en eau, sans  oublier les possibilités offertes par l'énergie solaire.
28.7 Madame la Présidente, malgré la crise politique et économique que traverse mon pays, le gouvernement  du Congo a pu organiser avec succès, du ler au 9 août 1999, le deuxième Festival panafricain de la musique  (FESPAM), auquel ont participé de nombreux artistes de plus de 25 pays africains. C'est dire combien nous  approuvons le grand programme III relatif à la culture, et en particulier la stratégie de développement des  industries culturelles, qui suppose que priorité soit donnée à la formation des ressources humaines aux techniques  de création et de conservation.
28.8 Comme vous le savez, Madame la Présidente, l'information et les médias jouent un rôle déterminant  dans les sociétés en proie à l'ignorance et à la pauvreté. Par ailleurs, la libre circulation des idées est gage de  progrès pour la démocratie et pour la paix. Pour cette raison, le Congo soutient le Programme international pour  le développement de la communication et demande son renforcement, en ce qui concerne notamment la création  de radios communautaires, dont il a tant besoin pour rapprocher davantage les populations et combattre ainsi les  divisions sociales ou communautaires. Le Congo appuie aussi les efforts déployés pour accroître la mobilisation  en faveur de la liberté de la presse. Il se réjouit des actions retenues pour développer la communication dans les  pays les moins avancés et des programmes propres à réduire les écarts en matière d'information et de  communication. Aussi appuie-t-il les actions tendant à renforcer les réseaux régionaux de développement et de  partage des moyens de communication.
28.9 S'agissant des activités transversales, le projet transdisciplinaire "Vers une culture de la paix" traduit  adéquatement, à travers ses stratégies et ses contenus, les préoccupations de la société congolaise, car le peuple  congolais, quels que soient les incidents de parcours, est un peuple épris de paix et qui aspire à la paix. Etant  donné l'acuité des problèmes de violence et d'intolérance auxquels le Congo est confronté, ce projet devra se  concrétiser par des actions vigoureuses dans le domaine de l'éducation. Le gouvernement congolais souhaite  notamment une meilleure diffusion des matériels didactiques élaborés par l'UNESCO en matière d'éducation aux  droits de l'homme, de tolérance, d'instruction civique, etc.
28.10 Le Congo appuie les efforts en faveur des femmes et souhaite prendre part aux activités préconisées par  l'UNESCO à cet effet. Le projet congolais "Maison de la femme” visant à renforcer la participation des femmes  au développement devra être relancé avec le concours de l'UNESCO car le gouvernement, résolu à le faire  aboutir pleinement, lui a alloué des crédits substantiels.
28.11 Mon pays salue enfin l'heureuse initiative de l'UNESCO et du Parlement français qui a consisté à réunir  un parlement mondial des enfants auquel il a eu la joie d'être représenté par deux jeunes Congolais. Notre pays  adhère sans réserve aux idéaux proclamés dans le Manifeste de la jeunesse pour le XXIe siècle présenté à notre  Conférence.
28.12 Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi de m'adresser à présent au Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor.  Monsieur le Directeur général, par ma voix, soyez assuré que le Congo n'oubliera pas les efforts que vous avez  déployés sans compter durant votre mandat pour épargner à notre pays la guerre civile dans laquelle celui-ci s'est  enlisé. En effet, en décembre 1994, vous vous êtes personnellement rendu à Brazzaville pour présider pendant  trois jours le Forum national pour la culture de la paix, réussissant à réunir autour d'une même table les plus hauts  responsables congolais divisés. Grâce à vous, la réconciliation fut acquise. De même, cinq jours seulement avant  que n'éclate la deuxième guerre civile qui a déchiré notre pays en juin 1997, vous êtes accouru une nouvelle fois  à Brazzaville pour convaincre ces mêmes responsables, redevenus une fois de plus frères ennemis, de signer un  pacte de paix. Si le Congo avait suivi vos sages conseils, ce gâchis qui a coûté tant de vies humaines et de pertes  Organisation, veuillez accepter, Monsieur le Directeur général, les remerciements du peuple congolais et de son  Président, M. Denis Sassou-Nguesso, pour les efforts que vous avez bien voulu déployer en faveur de la paix au  Congo.
28.13 Pays meurtri par plusieurs années de conflits armés, le Congo, Mesdames et Messieurs les participants à  la Conférence générale, se tourne vers vous pour solliciter votre appui, ou mieux une consolation de votre part, à  savoir votre soutien à notre candidature à un siège au Conseil exécutif et dans les organes subsidiaires de notre  Organisation. Mon pays a les compétences et la volonté requises pour assumer pleinement les responsabilités que  vous pourriez lui confier.
28.14 Du haut de cette tribune, le Congo lance une fois encore un vibrant appel à la communauté  internationale et à l'UNESCO afin qu'elles appuient substantiellement son vaste programme de redressement de  son système éducatif fortement ébranlé. Je souhaite plein succès aux travaux de la 30e session de la Conférence  générale. Je vous remercie.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, I thank you for your contribution. You may rest assured that I shall convey to Federico  Mayor what you said in your statement, which was greatly appreciated. I know that the Director-General is aware  of the needs and aims of your country and understands the particular importance of improving the conditions of  education. I do understand that you wish the funds spent on education to be spent as efficiently as possible. I now  call the next speaker, Professor Jerzy Kloczowski, President of the National Commission of Poland. My dear  friend, you have the floor.
30.1 M. KLOCZOWSKI (Pologne) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le représentant du Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, honorables délégués, permettez-moi  d'abord de présenter mes félicitations les plus sincères à Madame la Présidente pour son élection à la présidence  de cette session de la Conférence générale.
30.2 Chacun fait actuellement le bilan d'un passé d'un siècle que nous commençons à peine à comprendre et  qui a été marqué à la fois par la barbarie et par la lutte menée en faveur de la liberté et la dignité humaine. Peut-  on dire en effet que l'esprit de paix règne alors que, partout, au contraire, apparaissent la haine, l'oppression sous  toutes ses formes, la domination, une pauvreté choquante, et des forces armées prêtes à intervenir les unes contre  les autres ?
30.3 Le système des Nations Unies demande des réformes profondes et une adaptation aux besoins du  XXIe siècle. La question de la place de l'UNESCO au sein de ce système, qui doit être une place véritable et non  point seulement proclamée, se posera dans les années à venir. Nous sommes une organisation d'Etats, et la  responsabilité incombant à chaque Etat, là où la paix est en danger, est énorme. Mais nous devrions aussi rester  fidèles à l'esprit des pères fondateurs de l'UNESCO, qui ont voulu créer un corps de sages, de personnes ayant  une grande autorité intellectuelle et morale, capables d'adopter haut et fort une position claire face aux menaces  réelles, visibles et moins visibles, dont la paix ainsi que les droits fondamentaux des hommes feraient l'objet  partout dans le monde sans tenir compte des frontières.
30.4 Notre tâche, Mesdames et Messieurs, est au fond extrêmement difficile et délicate. Représentants et  fonctionnaires des Etats, ainsi que représentants de notre organisation mondiale, nous devrions être l'expression  de la sagesse, de l'autorité morale et du prestige de ces entités. Mais le prestige et l'autorité de l'UNESCO dans le  monde d'aujourd'hui sont-ils vraiment à la mesure des besoins, compte tenu des défis que nous rencontrons à  chaque pas ?
30.5 La volonté d'analyser en profondeur, avec lucidité et librement, les dangers existants et d'envisager  globalement les tensions, les crises, les violations, les dominations ainsi que les méthodes appliquées pour en  sortir se trouve - c'est une évidence - au centre des préoccupations de l'UNESCO. II s'agit d'abord de voir au-delà  des murs dressés par les méfiances qui naissent partout avec une facilité stupéfiante. Notre tâche est extrêmement  difficile, et seule peut sans doute l'accomplir une organisation internationale respectée, capable de dire même  brutalement où nous en sommes véritablement aujourd'hui et ce qu'il faut faire pour éviter les catastrophes de  toutes sortes si proches de nous.
30.6 Nombre des programmes que nous avons élaborés depuis quelques années, les programmes concernant  la culture de la paix et l'éducation, semblent bien répondre aux besoins de notre génération et des générations qui  vont succéder à la nôtre. La grande question, c'est celle des réalisations dans chaque pays, chaque région, chaque  famille même. La mise en valeur effective et non pas seulement superficielle de la culture dont chaque personne  humaine est porteuse, le renforcement de l'éducation sur tous les plans - y compris au sein de la famille où la  responsabilité de la mère et du père reste cruciale - semblent être aujourd'hui une tâche prioritaire pour  l'humanité, la condition même de la survie d'une humanité digne de ce nom, de la survie de la culture humaine.
30.7 Permettez-moi, pour illustrer ces idées générales, une réflexion personnelle sur l'un des projets lancés  récemment. Il s'agit d'un projet de collaboration en sciences humaines, notamment entre les historiens, pour une  vision globale, dans la longue durée, de l'histoire et de la situation actuelle d'un groupe de pays, dans une région  donnée du monde. Les relations entre voisins, en règle générale très mauvaises "depuis toujours”, comme on dit,  dans l'esprit des gens, les questions de frontières et de "murs" sont au centre de nos préoccupations. Une équipe  de l'UNESCO et du Comité international des sciences historiques a organisé récemment deux réunions très  fructueuses sur l'Europe du Centre-Est et sur l'Afrique au sud du Sahara. On a pu constater l'importance  absolument capitale d'un travail intellectuel de ce genre, lucide, fiable, ouvert, pour la réalisation concrète et  efficace des programmes relatifs à la culture de la paix et à l'éducation pour tous dans les pays concernés.
30.8 En particulier, nous avons ainsi acquis la profonde conviction que la recherche d'un équilibre entre  tradition et modernité est une voie à suivre, si j'ose dire, par tout le monde, car elle reste au coeur des problèmes  de la culture et de l'éducation d'aujourd'hui. En mettant en oeuvre ce projet de coopération entre historiens, tous  les participants ont pris conscience de l'importance à cet égard du rôle de l'UNESCO qui leur est apparue comme  le cadre indispensable des activités de ce genre.
30.9  L'année 2000, proclamée par les Nations Unies, sur la proposition de l'UNESCO, Année internationale  de la culture de la paix, nous invite à approfondir cette base indispensable d'une nouvelle culture de la fraternité  humaine. Elle est l'année 2000 après la naissance de Jésus-Christ, homme dieu pour tous les chrétiens, grand  prophète pour les musulmans, grande personnalité du monde juif, homme de paix pour tous les hommes, et est  une grande occasion pour les hommes et les femmes du monde entier de rencontrer leurs semblables dont les  religions, les civilisations, les convictions sont différentes à la recherche de points communs et d'une meilleure  compréhension mutuelle. Nous sommes tous conscients, et la Conférence générale a une responsabilité  particulière à cet égard, qu'il faut faire tout notre possible pour qu'au XXIe siècle le monde ne soit pas, comme  certains le prédisent, déchiré par des guerres qui auraient à leur origine des conflits entre les civilisations et les  religions. C'est aussi à l'UNESCO que nous allons préparer l'année 2001 proclamée par l'ONU Année des  Nations Unies pour le dialogue entre les civilisations. L'appel de la Conférence générale devrait être entendu  dans le monde entier et appuyé par les Etats, les églises, les médias, les organisations internationales et l'opinion  publique. Il doit être propagé sur le terrain par l'intermédiaire des milliers d'écoles et de clubs UNESCO dans le  monde entier.
30.10  Permettez-moi aussi, Mesdames et Messieurs, au moment de conclure, de rendre spécialement  hommage, en tout sincérité, au Directeur général. C'est sous la direction de M. Federico Mayor et grâce à son  engagement personnel exceptionnel que nous avons pu déployer un effort considérable de restructuration et  d'adaptation de l'UNESCO aux besoins d'une ère nouvelle tout en préservant l'essentiel des idées des pères  fondateurs de notre Organisation. Aujourd'hui, nous voyons de plus en plus le XXe siècle comme une époque  marquée par de grandes guerres mondiales et le totalitarisme entre 1914 et 1989. L'UNESCO, sous la direction  de Federico Mayor, est en fait entrée dans le XXIe siècle, ce qui nous permet de continuer à suivre les grandes  lignes de l'action menée par elle au service de l'homme. Merci infiniment, cher Monsieur le Directeur général,  pour tout ce qui peut être apporté au monde entier grâce à votre dévouement et votre amour des autres. Merci de  votre attention.
31. The PRESIDENT  I should like to thank very much His Excellency the President of the National Commission of Poland  and my personal friend. I now call the next speaker on my list, who is His Excellency Mr Abderrahim Zouari,  Minister of Education of Tunisia. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(95) Solo l adl VV  sods Balls whip! call pall sl (3d Gall Guy saad! 33 duchy Sad  pl Van Aub aly wig! Bell Sle chs Jl Band! (pS) Bf of FIM; clajlasiy sed  SAR alameda) Sao) Blof SUN Ge el of La] pères AUST es § Bgl JS oS) Lal  SIN pled! 590) ol Of Gogh Va lala) Jaen De dapat Sais Lo le Labial) plall pall sully  Agile g pio Sas Jaga Oo A Logg Lialsid dolall EN dei Bae joule 9S5 mand ad! 4 pl  sme] SEA Lee Gas Gl Dm dl piilly Gold of Boldly colapudl cng Jl Bag VON  À Lies, Glad Go dha 53 JI Asa Logan wold Luslll sgn! à Leas] 4 padlly «Labial  Jolie ya JI pi FPR 5 cLlai La lally cha ddl Vail wool 255 Ledélin Ge ds! ds  ls cul Lol pny LSladt Me CABANE pene § Joli! of pliaŸl Bylan JI wis) bo ole Lis  logo Go Lgl Dogar! dow log Lee, puis FU Dna I Soll Gp GOI Jelly Sols)  labs wihaiull plus of à Bolte) § (Suds cas By pill odd) Bly Lads er  toll opel Seis Les wile By Ll) LA Ld Lalla, logis Jo Abd ©  asd Jl cdi OY Er ele 3 bill Jos zo! dan JY ola JSas ails J Ca  le 0555 Le Lo JS5 pally Bly Lol Jo Lal ld LB Li Lad 4 555 Loy SBI Jon]  Aa J Sly edad! lla) ade iS oF oe lus! cel Led YI Lily Jad!
257   Lg LbilL «140% Lis Ledblitinl 9d ¢Luias cuiisdll ad) (Boldly loud! cia Jl Saud! FY  Lloal co BOBS CLODLÉ LA Leliy délais Leila Linge LebLiS à pales cual US Se ls  Lif plas Je Dall of 35 Leda) cine 1 pill pala] pil) LS Gaz Ill 501 nally  SSI Spall Je 45,08 ans oy HAT Lil) GB ta Gs pall 4 S580 Le 0s 0955  se ost cialy Jud] gy 4d SIN JY Lad) 55 dual ol Lie LS lhl Gay 05907 bad §  sas cyril gl) line pay pl Il OUI Go 75,1 Led Lans Lgsliglsl 85100 Lesa 0)  AS Sel Lpols pass noi 559 dote Glan Dylis Fig COM CLIS] JI BIL pS Sse  Ge Sober] pedals slo] Vy jad G 907 Blob! pad Le Al § mand! Gop pull bl ans ole  de Gazi Le 3aadil Go Jl SL) das Vydll of LS ¢ Slane 32g She Lo LI JI dsl! pw  CITES Se! Wall à 3 o> diay dla web Cu lSo vagal! lin Jad 380 189 dus yuo lgalg iY  Ba Ji Lio wlll bag (744, FE Goyal Bold! ur À pa pd! JUBNI Glad] Ld nis  BVA dis oes 3 Sasa! Tabi indy SHI "prod Tp” Jad of Jel W oSey old  i Aol lal (555 JI dgasll sg Todt 50 poly Ul bo (315 Lady § Lugals Lbly ps  Sao S325 aime Jl sSudsall indy SHI Halll (Body (Jad Le c'Sp5 pine” Jl edged (ug of  po dell Tepid § Gal GupySS JI Endl Gal oe SY ga pal Lads pg ihlly BL  Sly dupe cha Led JS) all dune 9 4d] ad bool RSI bles JI pS dbl ies  Sede of bas le 3 Jill ogo lillie x St, Jord! LLB Ball SA 35059 Noa  eus Ale pf Lo Dune als ST Lyall Jolin of LUS Gay Jolly FSI BLT § Aa Isa  Ml pyle te; US Jal 505 Leah Me (Lans PJ Log Li She  i se “po! 0A 3 aly Stl ds opi UL Blt ly cord] suslse ai ss Trt  JS buy Looëf M cle yso Gyasd À any Lis, 5 aid VU LES Shan Vis LolaiBly Lo oJ $iSilly Loaded!  oll) Luis Jb eV cole! go ghsal LIL ola AIS) CS SVT AS Lol sald  ow all lind! 4S pro Jus dyad] Juans of Balldly claudl wlio 3 ASfa35IN  Om daw 551 Blas] JI SF 28 4S yao $3 dd gad © del ala Ji Jai ce dled po  du) oi Linie Joss Lo sag Ledes als, Lblos5 Lgdlaal © dy (lo das pÉ dg Jl ils à du y pbs  SM Les Baan Joni 595 Lean 315518 arddl ce » Bogdl Gani Lis Jars of AYRES  A Aga idly Dll wad! pS BEI wil a CBS, wind! (lus Jl Sandi vYo  pe whlox 08 wd SU Al ay (pig opr] J] LL Ses Olay pms LD  FAN go LELS le Blast! 5 abies Ly Lebo Liss WL Llaial DUI clef (legit DB iol  LS 25S)! BGI x Jeu, Lib yl pant wlogioy BUNT le agi poi] pigs § SUIS 54 A0L  Gg pall UY pôles gizg Lgl clos] à whlandl IS wale Lol] Joy pil) Abol> ils  dius Ge dglay Udy cs yo BEY dyad! Lilie dielie 4ysgead] Gud) Solex 558 (donw BW LEY  Cislas of (Badly A0 5 Be Jods 5 M5 Call candly Sigal) LL (LAN sa ISH (Ye  pl al sll) LL co 0 Lao] L5liadl ola  iby)! whol! July dsl Les 5 0 eel of oludly elas] dad Jl Sagadl TON  pom Sold Jo Old $ ols! RY pals 284 LS lroiqe pues 2345 dino Bob axles Sagas Vos cles  all Gla do us 2 of Lai] pias Vaal) oda 0 deal Lull SU Spb  &b lis Croll PRES s(S31 or yy cales RCT PRES | 0g Leo Less FLY Sd
3e Lally aan Lost 5 deol ds Jf ol Boldly wlowdd! dad JI Saad! FN zebiy Lille) 3902 z ! 5 wih wl Sas  Led] Lil cola JE Lslss Sie Less Je elo SI pally SLA 5 By l ogo Les Goby Lui  BU psi Jo blind! Lsiue Led] spas LS 2 Ug pla J] Copal Gp (ull V5 ie à Ji  £5 we Sa all Spddl gpl sll LAN psily  Linglly Shall Lei] 035 BUS ALES b> lj)  Sate Labs do im oud WLW 03a Eole 0h cus Jo 0oy lays cnlipglly BEI, Gulia Yl  polly gS gall Fabs
(32.1) Mr ZOUARI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  on behalf of the Tunisian delegation I have the honour to offer you, Madam President, congratulations on your  election as President of this Conference and best wishes for success in conducting its work. I also have the  privilege of expressing heartfelt thanks to the Chairperson of the Executive Board and the Director-General for the  admirable clarifications they have provided. Furthermore, I should like to mention the important role played by  Mr Federico Mayor during his term of office as Director-General of our Organization, and his tireless efforts in  implementing its programmes.
(32.2) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the standard-setting principles and values set forth in the  Constitution of this Organization and the experience acquired over past decades have led the international  community to look to it for leadership in matters that are at the forefront of that community’s concerns. The rapid  and sometimes disconcerting changes that the world has recently witnessed have led to the emergence of real issues  which cannot be ignored. Consideration of this Organization’s action since its founding shows clearly that it has  been characterized by integration and creative interaction between the standard-setting principles informing its  mandate and the international community’s projects and programmes, dictated as they are by the changing situation  of the world’s peoples. In my view, UNESCO has succeeded in reconciling new situations and needs with the  imperatives of its mission and fidelity to its lofty ideals. UNESCO is concerned above all with promoting the  welfare of humanity, both humanity as a whole and its various members individually. Accordingly, the  Organization’s work has been set in an operational framework that rests simultaneously on excellent preventive  measures and the imperatives of ethical action. Its preventive work is illustrated by its reliance on education,  culture and science, and, in a word, every means of combating ignorance, while its ethical action has helped to  protect humanity from falling victim to the achievements of its own science and technology.
(32.3) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Tunisia joined the Organization as soon as it became  independent, in 1956, and since that time 1t has never ceased to participate in its activity, believing as it does in  UNESCO’s mission and its lofty ideals. Tunisia also believes in the common future of humanity and is faithful to  the values of tolerance and openness that have marked its history. In my delegation’s view, reliance on humanity  can only mean proceeding along lines that ennoble humanity, in terms of its receptiveness to education and cultural  enrichment, and its ability to act judiciously with respect to its conditions of existence. I am persuaded that school  constitutes the ideal space in which to build the future, and consequently Tunisia has placed its hopes on education,  assigning it high priority and allocating 6.3% of its gross domestic product and one fourth of the State’s operating  budget to the educational field. This is a very substantial effort, not only in terms of the country’s resources, but  even by comparison with the advanced countries. Tunisia’s education system is based on the principles of  democracy in education and the right of all to be educated on a footing of equality, none being specially favoured,  and none being excluded. Education is compulsory from the age of 6 to the age of 16, and it is free. Moreover, the  State provides economically disadvantaged pupils with all the books and school supplies they need. The results of  this policy have been plain to see, especially in the present decade: 99.1% of all 6-year-olds attend school, and as  many of them are girls as boys. It may fairly be said that the Declaration on Education for All which UNESCO  adopted in Jomtien in 1990 has become a tangible reality in Tunisia. As regards literacy programmes and  programmes for persons with special needs, Tunisia has turned into an “education society” — in fact, to use  UNESCO’s own term, a lifelong education society. The challenge facing us now is how to advance from the right  to education to the right to success, i.e. to progress from quantitative democracy to qualitative democracy. What we  aspire to is schools for all in which each individual has his or her share, schools that will keep up with the pace of  change and thereby foster young people’s ability to function and acclimatize them to the requirements of the  vocations of the future in a world that must expect to experience radical changes in forms of production and work.  That 1s why, in the future, no pupil will leave school until he or she has reached the age of 16, and until he or she  has acquired adequate skills. To that end, vocational schools have been established.
(32.4) Not wishing to be taken unawares, and in anticipation of what education and preparation for life are  likely to entail in the coming century, Tunisia, at the initiative of His Excellency the President of the Republic, has  undertaken an in-depth, systematic exploration of the concept of the renewal of the mission of schools in the light  of scientific, technological and economic change, with a view to being ready for whatever the future may bring. We  have already undertaken the work of renewal by connecting all secondary-level and intermediate-level schools to  the Internet, and are in the process of doing the same for primary schools. There can be no doubt, ladies and  gentlemen, that in coming years the future of schools will constitute a battleground between countries competing to  occupy advantageous positions in the arena of globalization. The outcome of that battle may be the creation of  critical disparities between education systems which until only a short time ago were quite similar in terms of their  objectives, facilities and curricula. Owing to this situation, our Organization must bear a new responsibility, one  which it must not neglect, as otherwise the gap between peoples will become deeper, some increasing in strength  while others are left behind.
(32.5) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, owing to scientific change and the side effects of globalization,  culture has become an essential issue of major significance for all peoples. Tunisia, as a country characterized by  the cross-fertilization of ancient civilizations and the mixing of diverse cultures, regards culture as being of the  utmost importance, aware as we are of the importance of culture as a factor in the preservation of our identity.  Tunisia’s cultural project rests on the twin bases of the retention of its national, personal elements and interaction  with the universal culture, insofar as the latter bears human values and ideals to the establishment and  consolidation of which all civilizations have contributed. In order to ensure that the resources required for the  flourishing of an innovative culture are available, His Excellency the President of the Republic has directed that the  State budget for culture is to be doubled as from the year 2000. The same applies to the budget for scientific  research and investigation: for the first time in our country’s history, that budget is to be multiplied by two, in  terms of gross domestic product.
(32.6) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the changes imposed by globalization and the  opening of national economies, many States are now facing difficult circumstances that threaten the fabric of their  societies. Their situation may become serious in the absence of some form of solidarity that will afford a means of  circumscribing the negative impact of these changes. Development that takes place at the expense of the human and  social dimension must, by definition, be unsound. Aware as it is of these challenges, Tunisia has set to work to fan  the flame of solidarity by choosing the way of social inclusiveness: development must benefit all Tunisians and all  regions of the country. On the strength of this pioneering experiment, His Excellency the President of the Republic  has called on the international community to give material form to the values of solidarity and mutual assistance  between peoples by establishing a “World Solidarity Fund”, to be financed by voluntary contributions, with a view  to enabling the international community to intervene to ensure that poor peoples do not become even poorer.  Surely there could be no more appropriate organization than UNESCO, the conscience of the world, to adopt this  initiative and contribute to making it a reality.
(32.7) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the years that lie ahead our Organization will be confronted  with the task of renewing its mission and developing appropriate tools and methods of action without renouncing  the principles and values that have guided it since its inception. The challenge that faces us is how to prevent  competition between peoples from degenerating into a mutually destructive catastrophe. We bear the responsibility  of ensuring that the diversity of cultures is preserved from the danger represented by a culture that seeks dominance  and hegemony. The soundest way to build a shared future for humanity is to take the road that leads through  diversity of cultures and identities, with dialogue among them. I am confident that this will not be a difficult task  for such an experienced organization as UNESCO. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your Excellency the Minister for Education of Tunisia. I congratulate you on your efforts  and on the steps you are taking and envy the amount your government can and does spend on education. I now  call the next speaker, His Excellency Dr Ali Abdul Aziz Al Sharhan, Minister for Education and Youth of the  United Arab Emirates. Your Excellency, you have the floor.  : Banal! Ty yal bY plays audi VE)  dl Bole SRB pala! Guy Solan coll paiill du, Bolaw cpu JI gon JI ADI pas  ASS 9 au dos 9 pSale pL! «Saludls ead | wl po RTI -Lasl, slui, doled lo] cplall  pl 5 a5ill dandy Sales) gill — Basal Lyall whLY Ugo wy de Lbs — al of 251 Lily  Gly SIN Sagal) Gnas oo opel LS cplailly Gall JS LE Lal 8900 où) Lud Let
260   CIE RAI gas abil ogi gay Lailly Gel JS poll pl asl JesTy ues pol sass  wlibally Leia 1 dl ll Leal Go Sygall 03a Lal Glas (Boludly elas! (land JI Saad VEN  Jail Sl à dy JLT dle wins spa SO Whginly co) Ll à SU 6d clay) à ais  Toll olyindl ue Lobildl Li 01 LS OU (ads 10ST 599311 03a Jia LS ¢ Bl, IST iis  U sLasŸl gull old Jos aga dual iy Gy, Lugs «Jad dhuwgio dal gwd IS oo  Lp Eggs 13] ged (AW LAY à gS ale 0585 of sy  tially meld! pape lo Baill Tgp IL 559 old oS3lpaa Jo oops of és vex  wll paid Less § sSedsdl Dbl ais SI EU Lal) dad WE CYAN old  Jl olga oi) cuadiany c JU dbugis asl SS bY & S8leil Ghay ly lols ASIA,  Ge Jelly leat pony cola! BUS § Lydd! hall] 3a Jo 3S chil pulanally slas)  Jla¥ly wloglall whois § Bled pail oo asl) de Lil wl pall Sls 1 J) BLL bl)  adll Lei UN pally pod] lwo sax] Laylioly ail) Lagos sSisdl dabiio Solos LilarYs  of bale cage SLA 0g blo old all on And) LELSN pill lo dls pps AW)  pany Jos 5 Clea! le saad IN Lait aed of Ne hp LIl wlshadl AS)Ley ISSN  sas Ge Adil) SUI yam gl 1 pond! V JEU Las le Loto Lisle 035d) palin! § eld)  ji Jeall sass 5 + ll spans 595 lal] Ge dase sas À gel dlisdl leg Ed] go pS
355 (Jo 5S (LBB pend! Leda pf AU pd B15 Jal BLS LIL lull 51 Les Sa dl JE  Lolell of LS Abs Jar! go 7PV diss Lo Eolagll ABS 35a Ÿ lig all À Lula! dss  SAI AY 5e¥ly GE QU dant lols 58 18S JB pull pole Ah25Y Lass! Lol  AST 5934 Ge po II Jab sSuisdll polyg lego 5 LSS 5915 dal! BUI Las Aba Ji VUE  Bordo dood Lldy 37 pl LS Er sil om 9 i fo clmslaisl le wig Sd Le  aed) by Loo 5,31 Jaadl ld go baud oo Uae JET Lo pad! LR JI VO (SUAS proof gala!  pis § Jans Lyd! Bibl LpalB] 4455 LaaalB] labo 5907 Ge pl de cul plain¥l ge 25501  Ld Lol> colobill oda po Se dati] lo pill opal Joss Ve gs polainl Lao  JS pe 0b! 335 JI Lal fax § sSussdl se 0255 Aslaglally JLOSII alg Lala! pal lly Joi  Isl 58 og pl) GaS 05 GET, pslally pil) Zp) Aabilly palally Uy dy pill Ly pall LAN 0a  wl pul pals 3 dul Jy 55H psg QiSe peo Sols J] ddd CSI § ges LS Can  OS By5dly Brad) 13550 aay (SI Cyl dae à Los Sida] palais I elas BUS 3 Lys  Jad sie ds Bla  pala) OG libs Lilo! 5035 Saxall Lu pndl ly Ugo of SDL, wind! (Aud Jl Sal vet  ang palit 5365 oly cAohiead) Baal) gush JI aad) oies SI coylau3ly maiznall pil) guolul pais  gs amy 0315 . pomlls plus Soazall wall dey (bass Lealsey pad! LSIsl bull Libs
35 Basal] Lol why Ugo of J! (Say "pusad) plaid! Jy ALI ce sls! ge wl gion
3 Jill poll GAS 525 anki 55 808 wishs oly ¢ pula] pale! Jae à 1055 Luis 05 al  Bil oS § pal Sl Ge Agana ann] 35 ligand Lis oly Lol peal) lai des  JI bl jagby (las Plugs wloglell wld mpd! HLL Gli bd Lans Ÿ LW  Bad JI Lawl! SSL olay) JI BLOYL 13s Basan Sab lily Byles Jia Olas] 3550  Angling «pond! pli] LS Is05 ¢ Dalal Lydall Laid] Gains Jal ue oSell sgl US J Bag pa
3 ody ALL giady (wll ually shill lsd Liu! Jud] wlubw Blo Jal go was JS  ad US al ce BWP RPSVEN JYCe ol ca 4b cape) palaill 92 SI SU ep 2a0dl (ia  Es 3 pla 90 LA oss of Aa lg mena iad Ji SL of Ls p05 ddl 5, veo  « giddy > ad Elus BS Go Sao pb p29 49 yall pla US $ tabs chou  IRAN PORE 5 5 ded! Osho cnonly (Boye LS lily dls dag «l)LYI 5 81,01 cai  lie 3 Jal en 3! LeslJginuos pags cuamols «olay Lelong LOWY Luodailly Laon!  wihlosY BIS ids OW Lang 5 Lao geil) wed! § LS jem albéss Bld! LL  JE A Lai As M 5 gins AL 3] CRAN plat] Ja bo à BHadf BUY Ld EU) Jf Lio)  Seo yell ds I à 33 LES Lalas dal ds  l>gab Lhd Lawl y Saxall Ly all ol, bY Uo lay ok ps es ous des ¥en  skill dal oda o3il LS cAlelall Laid db RER ls 8,0 eu Lib sl sas  Pilly Géggill Luby) wlasabll JS 1 Last) Gla Ge gene iy seid Creil,  Lins Jl BLL ¢ dub oll el jad! zaldis elo Lad abd [ERE cles pio Co 228 SHES BY Ek)  ali] khan polis muexr À Leg UB Slax] Jai go JlasVly wloglall Laisl yghdy LoSOUI 3151!  eid] ol pags pass Boludly willl (agdgll slasly lug) Solel lool clad Jl Sandi VEN  Lo LJ pus Lkyal LAB 03d Bana Sage JI Laser alli Span Lai sax 0 JL Ley  lily ale 5559 59 pL! 89 gay hdiue ge © pals ol 49 ally Sal Blagg lool oo ASS  oo By! shall oy Ud! Leal) earl ui Sygalf oda 055 of Je Bogine JLo¥ly Janlly Sill  Blatlly Lol obi) Usdall dygadl 0b bles 503 0295 Jl à SES solally sprl Jord! lols  pil sal Logially Jedd Gn Seed! Genis (ndly pl Gr Sead aw JI SOF Saw plas  S58 JS Ow cL salt oslaill 150) Lidl sSdsdl Jb of Joly cAldandl dagll oda à Gudsill JS 13a
(34.1) Mr SHARHAN (United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. Madam President of the General Conference,  Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Peace  and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you all. I should like to begin by offering, on behalf of the delegation  of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), my congratulations to the President of the Conference on her election, and  wish her all success. I should also like to express my esteem for the admirable efforts made by the UNESCO  Secretariat, led by Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, in preparing for this important session, and, in  addition, Mr Mayor’s own excellent work, during his term of office, aimed at strengthening UNESCO?s credit  worldwide, especially in connection with the concepts of peace, tolerance and human dialogue. I salute the efforts  of the Executive Board and its effective contribution to the formulation of a clearly defined programme of work for  the coming biennium. I offer my greetings to the incoming Director-General and wish him all success as he leads  the Organization into the third millennium and towards the further spread of a culture of peace among peoples.
(34.2) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this session stems from the importance of the  period of time that it represents and the realities of that period. It comes at the end of a century and at the dawn of a  new century, one in which humanity hopes to see the advent of a better life and a brighter future. This session also  represents a reaffirmation and strengthening of the gains achieved by the Organization in recent years through its  Medium-Term Strategy, and the preparation of a new strategy that will bear the Member States’ aspirations for the  future of UNESCO in the third millennium. This session, therefore, is the session of the century.
(34.3) Before proceeding to the comments of the UAE delegation on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-
2001, I should like to state how gratified we are at the Secretariat’s presentation of that Draft Programme and  Budget, especially the fact that it is consistent with the conceptual framework of the Medium-Term Strategy, is  responsive to the instructions of Member States and the Executive Board, concentrates on strengthening human
262   capabilities in all fields, and supports dialogue and interaction between cultures. Moreover, it has kept pace with  the rapidly occurring changes resulting from the awe-inspiring advances that are being made in information and  communication technology. Believing as I do in UNESCO’s principles and the distinguished role it plays as an  institution that fosters peace and progress, a role that has made it the world’s conscience and the guardian of lofty  human values, I consider that it is incumbent upon me not to be content with speaking with approval of the  Organization’s positive accomplishments, but that I should also try to shed light on some aspects that may  represent rather more negative features of the programme that has been submitted to us for our consideration. For  example, first, the results expected are listed for a large number of proposed programmes in a limited number of  countries, with no definition of the criteria and bases used to define the States or regions that will benefit from  those programmes, or the reasons justifying the omission of other States and regions that do not appear in the list.  Secondly, emphasis is placed on the implementation of science-related activities at Headquarters, while field  activities account for only 37% of all activities. Furthermore, the regular budget allocation for the activities of the  science programme is much less than the allocations for staffing and other administrative matters. Thirdly, the Plan  for the Promotion of Arab Culture still appears to occupy an unclear place among UNESCO’s programmes and  projects; despite the fact that it was approved over eight years ago, it has not yet reached the stage of actual  implementation, and there is nothing about it in the Draft Programme and Budget for the coming biennium.  Moreover, the Arabic language continues to play a smaller role than the other working languages. This is a matter  that calls for greater attention. Fourthly, despite the fact that there are various regional and quasi-regional  organizations in the Arab region that work in the same fields of competence as UNESCO itself, the Draft  Programme and Budget does not include any activities to be undertaken jointly with those organizations, notably as  regards science-related programmes and programmes relating to information and communication. I therefore urge  UNESCO to strengthen its cooperation with the Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization,  the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf  States. At the same time, I should like to see greater support for UNESCO’s regional office for the Arab States in  the Gulf through the provision of more international expertise in all UNESCO’s fields of competence, especially  education, so that that office becomes a centre of expertise and consultation that will be in a position to supply  assistance when necessary.
(34.4) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the UAE believes unquestioningly that education is a  fundamental element in the advancement and flowering of society, and the main means of bringing sustainable  development to fruition. We also believe that the development of education is a fundamental prerequisite to  keeping pace with the times we live in, confronting their challenges and responding to the new needs of individuals  and society. Nine years after the adoption of the World Declaration on Education for All, it is fair to say that the  UAE has achieved noteworthy progress in the field of basic education, and that it has made great strides towards  the attainment of the objective of providing education for all. This is especially satisfactory in view of the fact that  the decade of the 1990s has been marked by far-reaching changes in many international systems, particularly as  regards the rapid spread of information technology and means of communication, with the result that it has become  urgently necessary for the rising generation to acquire new knowledge, skills and orientations. The UAE’s political  leadership believes that every possible effort should be made to achieve sustainable human development, keep up  with the times, and be aware of every new development, in order to formulate policies that are more satisfactory in  terms of responding to the demands of an evolving world, ensuring that the necessary tools are available, and  attaining the ends in view. In this connection, I suggest that in order for education to be for all, it is first necessary  for all to be for education, and accordingly our society has mobilized all its capabilities and resources in pursuit of  that objective.
(34.5) The UAE fully understands that women constitute half of society, that it is essential for them to play an  important role in the onward march of development, and to that end they must be armed with knowledge and skills  and receive unlimited support from all sectors of society, both official and popular. In the UAE, women have  attained comprehensive progress and have come to occupy a noteworthy position. They now work in many fields of  scientific, educational, cultural, social and economic activity, and they have now begun to assume their  responsibilities, alongside men, in various areas of life, and to play an active role in the massive development-  related changes the country is currently witnessing. Official statistics indicate that the numbers of girls enrolled in  school at all levels have increased impressively: girls now account for 49% of all pupils at the primary level, 49%  at the intermediate level, and 55% at the secondary level.
(34.6) With a view to the qualitative improvement and development of its education system, the UAE has  embarked on an ambitious programme aimed at the upgrading of that system in the course of the first two decades  of the coming century. The programme is designed to generate an integrated work plan for the preparation of a  skilled, qualified national labour force that will be capable of meeting the demands of comprehensive development.  In addition, the plan will be geared to continuing evolution and improvement, and it will adopt a set of strategic  goals enshrining the nation’s ambition to create an appropriate education system through a number of clearly  defined projects aimed at generating national policies, curricula and capabilities. In addition, the necessary  resources will be mustered and information and communication systems developed with a view to achieving a  qualitative transition affecting all practical aspects of education.
(34.7) Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as we bid adieu to the twentieth century  and prepare to welcome a new century and a new millennium, we all aspire to see this long-established  Organization transform itself along lines such that it will be left in possession of the means, intellectual tools and  knowledge by which it will be able to contribute to the shaping of a future dominated by peace and security, a
263   future over which the banners of rationality and justice will wave. My hope is that this session will be a successful  forum for constructive dialogue among the world’s most prominent figures in the fields of education, science and  culture. I firmly believe that if sufficient effort is put into the development of education, culture and science, the  result will be the closing of the gap between advanced and underdeveloped countries, the gap between North and  South. I wish this Conference every success in the pursuit of its important task, and I ardently hope that UNESCO  will always remain the symbol of constructive international cooperation among the world’s forces for good. May  God grant you success. The Peace, Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you all.  (M. Gilavogui, Guinée, prend la présidence)
35. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre, de votre intervention et je donne la parole à l'orateur suivant,  S. Exc. M. Irakli Menagarishvili, ministre des affaires étrangères de Géorgie.
36.1 Mr MENAGARISHVILI (Georgia):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, colleagues and friends,  first of all, allow me to perform the honourable mission of conveying the wishes for a fruitful and successful  session from the President of Georgia, Eduard Shevardnadze, to all the participants of the General Conference of  UNESCO. As he has stated, UNESCO is viewed as an organization capable of successfully resolving the  problems of preserving the cultural diversity of nations and finding ways of addressing economic and  environmental concerns.
36.2 Tangible support from international organizations has contributed substantially to the successful  implementation of the transition process, launched in Georgia with the restoration of its independence. UNESCO  has been among these organizations. The Days of Georgian Culture at UNESCO Headquarters in July 1993, the  inclusion of ancient monuments of Georgian culture in the UNESCO World Heritage List, the International  Forum “For Solidarity Against Intolerance, for a Dialogue of Cultures” in July 1995, held under the auspices of  UNESCO and with the participation of the Director-General and the President of Georgia, were the first  important milestones of our cooperation. Cooperation with UNESCO has become an invaluable support for  Georgian educational establishments and scientific and technological institutions. I would like to express my  country’s gratitude for the active support provided to UNESCO?s activities in Georgia through the Participation  Programme.
36.3 Ladies and gentlemen, Georgia has always voiced its support for inter-ethnic accord, peace, security and  stability in the Caucasus, a region that was historically the cradle of various cultures representing a unique  spectrum of human civilization. In September 1998 Tbilisi hosted an international conference of mass media  representatives of the Caucasian States and in September 1999 another international conference under the  auspices of UNESCO. The subject of the latter was “Peaceful Caucasus and the Eurasian Corridor — Aspects of  East-West Integration”. The Caucasus — its past, present and future — has attracted the attention of the world  intellectual community in the light of the “Peaceful Caucasus” concept advanced by the President of Georgia.  This concept and its dynamic implementation proceed from a vision in which the confrontation of civilization is  ended through an extensive dialogue between cultures and the integration of economic and financial cooperation  between East and West.
36.4 A bright example of the development of sustainable cooperation is the creation of the Transportation  Corridor “Europe — Caucasus — Asia”. This is the Great Silk Route of the twenty-first century, stretching through  a vast territory from Japan to Europe. As part of the “Peaceful Caucasus” concept and within the framework of  the interdisciplinary project “The culture of peace”, Georgia has submitted a resolution on the intersectoral  subregional project “Caucasus” to the General Conference. It proposes the South Caucasus subregion, with the  possible extension of the project to include the whole Caucasus. The project is designed to make full use of all  means of communication for the intensification of regional cooperation in all fields of UNESCO activities. The  Governments of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan have supported this important undertaking. I would greatly  appreciate your support.
36.5 Your Excellencies, esteemed heads of delegation, at this session the General Conference will decide on  the issue of the participation of UNESCO in the activities dedicated to the 3,000th anniversary of Georgian  statehood. This event 1s of symbolic importance for us and will take place in the year of 2000 — the year of the  Culture of Peace. I ask this highly authoritative forum to support this initiative, which will contribute to the noble  goal of peace.
36.6 Mr President, cooperation with UNESCO has stimulated us to conduct an in-depth rethinking of the  future of the Georgian energy system. As early as 1994, under the aegis of and thanks to the financial support of  UNESCO, the International Energy Centre was founded, and has been fostering the implementation of concrete
264   projects in the field of renewable energy. Later, the elaboration of the “National Renewable Energy Programme”  was begun. The carrying out of demonstration projects, proposed by Georgia to the World Solar Programme
1996-2005, has been given special priority. Two international conferences under the aegis of UNESCO, in which  the President of Georgia also took part, were dedicated to this issue. In this connection, the plans to build a solar  settlement in the mountains near Aspindza, southern Georgia, deserve particular emphasis. We believe that the  inclusion of Vardzia — a pearl of ancient Georgian architecture located near the Aspindza solar settlement — in the  World Heritage List will promote the social development of the region. Our future cooperation with UNESCO in  this field is also planned within the framework of the initiative of the Georgian Government and UNESCO to set  up an International Agency for Sustainable Development. The Agency’s goals are to lend support to the World  Solar Programme 1996-2005 and the United Nations Programme on Climate Change and to search for new  opportunities for multifaceted development in the Black Sea countries and particularly in the Caucasus. The  Agency will encourage private investors as well as international financial institutions and other organizations to  increase funding for top-priority national and regional projects, and thus contribute to socio-economic and  cultural development, to the irreversibility of democratic processes, and to peace and stability in the region. The  Georgian Government hopes that UNESCO will provide assistance in the establishment and further development  of this programme.
36.7 Mr President, as the President of Georgia observed in his recent address to the United Nations General  Assembly, “the founders of the United Nations Organization certainly deserve praise for their wisdom and vision,  but we should not forget that the mechanism they created to serve our collective responsibility for the world’s  fate was framed for a different epoch”. The same could be said about our Organization. We believe that  successful implementation of this approach will be promoted by the decentralization of the UNESCO system,  which will resolve the burning issues of its Member States in a more comprehensive way. It is also important that  the creation of units away from Headquarters should be on a more systematic basis and focused on problem-  oriented needs. This will enhance regional cooperation based on commonality of interests and historical  experience in most of the regions.
36.8 We strongly believe that the United Nations and its specialized agencies, including UNESCO, should  adapt to the realities of a qualitatively new world. Georgia, as a candidate for election to the UNESCO Executive  Board, would greatly appreciate your support and promises to play an active role in this transformation.
36.9 We fully support the proposed UNESCO Programme and Budget for 2000-2001, which constitutes the  last stage in the implementation of a unique medium-term strategy that, for the first time in the history of the  Organization, links two centuries and two millennia. The high prestige of UNESCO in Georgia is strongly  associated with the personality of its Director-General. On behalf of President Eduard Shevardnadze, the  National Commission for UNESCO and the people of Georgia, I would like to express our gratitude to  Mr Federico Mayor for this support and understanding. We believe that by subscribing to the traditional values  and long-standing experience of UNESCO and by giving a fresh impetus to the process of transformation, the  new Director-General will efficiently guide our Organization into the twenty-first century.
36.10 Dear friends, along with its integration into UNESCO, Georgia has assumed certain commitments. I  would like to assure you finally that we will fulfil all these commitments, always promoting the realization of  ideas which constitute the cornerstones of our Organization. Thank you.
37. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre, de votre intervention et je donne la parole à l'orateur suivant,  S. Exc. M. Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, ministre de l’éducation du Kenya.
38.1 Mr MUSYOKA (Kenya):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to join all the distinguished delegates who  have spoken before me in sincerely congratulating Madam Moserov4 on her election. I have no doubt that her  vast experience and knowledge will ensure the smooth operation of the deliberations of the 30th session of the  General Conference so that they result in fruitful conclusions.
38.2 May I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to Mr Federico Mayor, the outgoing Director-General,  who in his tenure of office has distinguished himself as an industrious and skilled leader. His vision and foresight  have shaped and revitalized UNESCO for the benefit of all over the last 12 years. This Organization is now in a  stronger position to face the challenges of the twenty-first century with confidence, thanks to his efforts. My  delegation wishes Mr Mayor every success in his future endeavours.
38.3 Mr President, let me also congratulate in advance the nominee for the post of Director-General,  Ambassador Matsuura, and assure him of my country’s total support and commitment to the upholding and  promotion of the ideals of UNESCO. Our expectation is that he will usher UNESCO into the next millennium  with rekindled hope for mankind in pursuit of UNESCO’s mandate.
38.4 Since its inception UNESCO has organized and participated in many crucial international conferences  which have positively impacted on our global and national perceptions in education, science, culture,  communication and technical and vocational training.
38.5 Kenya would in particular like to mention the report of the International Commission on Education for  the Twenty-first Century, the Delors report, which clearly spelt out the four pillars of education: learning to be,  learning to know, learning to do, and learning to live together, which have greatly enriched our national  educational policies.
38.6 Mr President, the International Consultative Forum on Education for All has helped Kenya to assess her  progress in providing basic education for all our citizens. The Government of Kenya has been able to mobilize  other stakeholders in pooling resources and efforts and in creating participation and access to education,  particularly for girls and for children in especially difficult circumstances. In spite of our current budgetary  constraints, we have in the last two years provided bursaries to needy children at the secondary school level in  addition to what citizens contribute towards the development of education. The education sector in Kenya  currently consumes about 40% of the budget. The level of funding is causing very serious budgetary constraints  and our partners have been urging us to make cuts. However, Kenya has resisted this temptation and has in the  last two years expanded the provision of bursaries to needy children in secondary schools to supplement the  contributions of our citizens in the development of education through what we in Kenya call Harambees, which  is Kenya’s unique method of pulling together.
38.7 Furthermore, in 1998 the Kenyan Government established a Commission of Inquiry into the Education  System of Kenya to review our education system. The Commission was mandated to examine among other issues  the role of education in enhancing national unity, mutual social responsibility and ways of dealing with the AIDS  pandemic. The role of the private sector in the provision of education, alternative delivery methods and technical  and vocational education were also considered. The members of the Commission solicited views from a cross-  section of Kenyans to ensure that the new education system conforms to the wishes of the people, thereby  reflecting national reality. The report has now been presented to H.E. President Daniel T. Arap Moi in his  capacity as the appointing authority. The recommendations of this Commission will no doubt usher us well into  the twenty-first century.
38.8 It is also our hope that the final report on Education for All — the EFA 2000 Assessment — will provide  UNESCO with the relevant information and insight to enable the new concepts on education to be harmonized in  a globalized and culturally diverse world.
38.9 Mr President, the Declaration of the World Conference on Higher Education emphasized that higher  education and research should act as essential components of the cultural, socio-economic and environmentally  sustainable development of individuals, communities and nations. Kenya concurs with the UNESCO Declaration  that higher education should be open to all, with merit as the only criterion for access.
38.10 Mr President, in Kenya, and I believe this applies to all other Member States of UNESCO, it is  necessary for our youth to meet the challenge of information technology. Kenya has drawn up a curriculum for  computer studies for all secondary school children and has encouraged the establishment of private colleges  which offer studies in information technology.
38.11 In addition to scientific progress which has occurred over the years, there is a major revolution under  way in the area of genomics. The genomics revolution embraces developments in molecular and cell biology,  which have spawned new paradigms for the application of areas of science, especially biology, which have  potential for enabling African countries to exploit our gene-rich continent for the socio-economic development of  our people. The Government of Kenya is committed to the establishment of the Institute of Molecular and Cell  Biology as a centre of excellence to serve the African region, and the government has already committed initial  seed money towards this initiative.
38.12 Mr President, other innovative projects initiated by UNESCO or supported through UNESCO have also  been of great benefit to Kenya. The Man and the Biosphere (MAB) programme and the Biosphere Reserve for  Sustainable Resource Development and Conservation in Anglophone Africa (BRAAF) project are examples in  place. The BRAAF project has tremendously reduced conflict between the interests of the local communities and
266   the authorities running the biosphere reserves as the communities become increasingly involved in the  management of biosphere reserves and are also benefiting financially from them.
38.13 Another very successful programme is that of solar energy. UNESCO provided Kenya with seed funding  for a pilot project in order to promote literacy among the pastoral and nomadic communities. The results of this  project indicate that achievement of education goals among these communities is possible through such  programmes. It is for these reasons and because of extensive knowledge of areas of United Nations Environment  Programme (UNEP) competence that we do not support the proposal to transfer these projects to any body other  than UNESCO.
38.14 Mr President, we must continue to celebrate our vibrant and diverse cultural heritage. African children,  even as they embrace the information technology, must be steeped in our songs, our folklore and our traditions.  Above all, our traditional and deep sense of mutual social responsibility that exhorts us to place the communal  interest above individual ones must continue to be nurtured. Understanding our culture gives us an insight into  who we are and what we want to become. In this regard, the issue of moral decay through what is available in  cyberspace needs to be conclusively addressed. The idea of a youth parliament, youth forums in UNESCO  conferences and the involvement of parliamentarians in UNESCO activities signifies the importance of involving  all stakeholders in decision-making. In addition, we support all the proposals and efforts being made by  UNESCO to address the issue of child abuse as well as pornography and violence on the screen. We should come  up with a universal legal framework to address these issues in order to safeguard human dignity.
38.15 Mr President, while the economies of most of the industrialized countries have moved out of recession,  most of Africa is still mired in poverty. No progress of any kind can be achieved by an impoverished people.  Kenya is determined to tackle the scourge of poverty so that our people can join the rest of humanity in living  dignified and prosperous lives.
38.16 I would also like to call upon UNESCO to redouble its efforts in calling for debt relief for all African  countries, since a prosperous Africa is economically beneficial to the rest of the international community.
38.17 Mr President, we move into the next millennium with most of Africa committed to democracy,  prosperity and a culture of peace for all her people. Kenya supports the concerted efforts being made to bring  peace to all African countries mired in conflict and war. We note that such conflicts have led, and continue to  lead, to an increase in the number of displaced persons. Indeed, Kenya is today home to many refugees from the  Lake Region and the Horn of Africa. We are grateful for UNESCO’s PEER initiatives, which continue to  alleviate the lot of such marginalized groups, but we repeat that sustainable peace in these regions is the best  solution. Kenya calls for support for the Great Lakes Forum and Culture of Peace Network initiatives, which aim  to reduce conflict in our subregion.
38.18 Within the last two years, the world community has witnessed an unprecedented upsurge of disasters,  including floods, earthquakes and drought. In Kenya, the spectre of terrorism was unleashed on us and our  peaceful existence was shattered by the loss of 250 lives while many more people were maimed and injured  during the 7 August 1998 bomb blast. The world community, including UNESCO, rose as one and demonstrated  an encouraging sense of solidarity with us. It is just such solidarity, Mr President, such caring, that the people of  the world need as we enter the next millennium. Finally, let me say, Mr President, as we move into the twenty-  first century, that we are determined to achieve the best life possible for our people. We have the resources and  the political will to ensure that we take our rightful place among other nations.
38.19 It is significant that the 30th session of the General Conference is being held on the eve of a new  millennium, at a time when all humanity is looking back and assessing the achievements, the meaning and the  worth of its existence over the last thousand years. As this is done, we should endeavour to ensure that the  knowledge and experience gained so far can help us, and especially Africa, to forge a future full of hope, peace  and prosperity for all mankind. Kenya is grateful that this has been the unfailing mission of UNESCO since its  inception. We thank UNESCO and all its member countries and wish you all and your peoples a prosperous  millennium. I thank you, Mr President, for your indulgence, and thank you all for listening to me.
39. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre, de votre intervention et je vous sais gré d’avoir résumé votre  texte afin de respecter votre temps de parole. Je donne maintenant la parole a S. Exc. M. Guillermo Vargas  Salazar, ministre de 1’éducation du Costa Rica.
(40.1) Mr VARGAS SALAZAR (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Representative of  the Director-General, distinguished Ministers and heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, Costa Rica wishes to  express its undying gratitude to Dr Federico Mayor for his passionate endeavour to advance peace and education in  the world and its wishes that the work of the incoming Director-General, to whom it offers its enthusiastic and  enduring support, will be highly successful.
(40.2) I come from a small country lying at the heart of the American continent, between two oceans, scattered  with volcanoes and blessed with an exuberant, generous and varied nature that we cherish as the dearest of all our  treasures. I come from a small but fertile land, home to a people of farmers that proudly displays to the world its  history of over a century of steadfastly democratic life. I come from a poor, hard-working and simple people that  has declared war on war and constitutionally abolished its army more than half a century ago, closing down its  garrisons and turning them into museums and centres of art and culture. Fifty years ago my country eagerly set  about a massive social reform that banished from our soil the germ of internecine fighting, offered universal public  health services, extended labour legislation to all workers as a shield against exploitation and injustice, and turned  social rights into constitutional guarantees. In short, it erected the firm pillars upon which rests the serene and  secure peace that all Costa Ricans now enjoy.
(40.3) I come from a people deeply committed to education. Our first rulers — teachers by vocation and office —  clearly and firmly traced the paths towards lofty educational goals. In order to pursue those goals, despite Costa  Rica’s historic and distressing levels of economic poverty, we were required to relegate or postpone any other  interests so as to be able to devote the biggest possible share of our scant resources to developing an excellent and  equitable education system for all our children, all our young people and all our workers, both men and women.  Therefore, since our priority has been education, we have neither built barracks nor dug trenches. Consequently,  and for all our economic poverty, every child in Costa rica is within a couple of miles of a school.
(40.4) Since we do not waste our money on machine-guns, warplanes or other ignoble instruments of death and  destruction, we have been able to channel our ever meagre economic resources into building a fuller and more  prosperous life for our people. Not without making major sacrifices, we have achieved an 83% rate of pre-  schooling provision, a gross enrolment ratio of 112% at primary level and a national literacy rate in excess of 95%.
(40.5) We stubbornly refuse to squander our resources on maintaining an army of soldiers, since on several  occasions in the history of our continent soldiers have sullied democracy and bloodied their hands with the  sufferings of their humblest brothers and sisters. Instead we have marshalled an invincible army of peace, an army  of teachers and professors with a sound academic background and permanent refresher training in both their  subjects and their methods. They are sent all over the country to build and re-create — along with our children and  youth — scientific knowledge, technology and art.
(40.6) Entrenched in the classroom and with blackboards, laboratories, exercise books and textbooks as their  only weapons, my people fought a fierce battle to ensure for every Costa Rican child real and effective access to  educational computer software, seen as instrumental in the active, creative and critical construction of knowledge.  Ninety per cent of our secondary schools are equipped with computer laboratories where young people, instead of  being passive users of existing programs, are the architects of new thought processes worked out with the help of  computer programming and robotics. This outstanding achievement, of which we are justly proud, was nevertheless  not obtained without cost. On the contrary, it is the product of a mammoth economic effort by the national  government and the active participation of parents, who collected the necessary resources so that their children  could be the knights in armour of technology and knowledge in school computer laboratories, able more surely and  successfully to face the challenges of the coming century. To achieve that goal, we even had to confront the  arrogant irresponsibility of the foreign company providing the computer equipment, its disregard for contractual  obligations, and the chorus of associates echoing that arrogance.
(40.7) Therefore, as this millennium draws to a close — and uncertainty and anxiety, paradox and hope are all  emerging from the maelstrom of accelerated change and unparalleled scientific and technological growth, typical of  the times we live in — we Costa Ricans are renewing our faith in education as the best path by far to the essential  goal of the full development of human capabilities, before any other social value. We are therefore doing our  utmost to apply nationwide the model of “leader schools” currently emerging in Costa Rica, thanks to the  generosity of the Netherlands and UNESCO’s technical assistance. For the year 2000 we are determined to enhance  it as part of our Schools of Excellence programme. In these schools — along with innovative teaching strategies and  the enhancement of curricula at “leader schools” — we shall seek concurrently to extend the school day and offer  such additional subjects as the graphic, musical and industrial arts, physical training and civic education; to teach a  second language, now available to 50% of our pupils; to encourage the participatory and critical organization of  parents as those primarily responsible for the education of their children; and to involve local communities by  giving them a prime role in administering education.
(40.8) Because we believe in education as an irreplaceable pillar of the genuine and integral development of our  people, the Costa Rican Government has officially decreed that civic education and the culture of peace should be  priority education activities, central features of the curriculum and a daily classroom experience. As we know, it is  not enough for schools to produce citizens who, in order to step out with confidence on the uncertain paths of the  new century, are just well-supplied with scientific, technological, artistic and humanistic knowledge; that is  necessary but certainly not the whole story. Education must also fashion men and women of integrity who are very  much alive to the principles of solidarity and wholly committed to peace and justice, to unfettered democracy, to  freedom and to supreme human values.
(40.9) In the school year beginning in February 2000, Costa Rica will extend civic education in all primary and  secondary schools through teacher training and an unprecedented, persistent drive in the press and on television  and radio, with the generous support of the country’s private sector. For this enterprise we shall be using the  excellent “Culture of Peace Collection”, comprising audio cassettes and books of stories, comic strips and booklets  of activities admirably prepared by UNESCO and Radio Nederland. For this purpose, the Costa Rican Government  will be seeking additional funds in order to obtain more copies and distribute them to every school in the country.
(40.10) Costa Rica proudly shows the world its considerable achievements in education as the outcome of huge  sacrifice and effort over more than a century. The goals achieved have owed nothing to chance or to windfalls, but  reflect the resolve and painstaking work of a people which, despite extreme poverty, has since emerging as a State  made education its fundamental priority. Historically, Costa Rica has devoted a great portion of its scanty  economic resources to education, deliberately and expressly abandoning other areas — unnecessary if not  prejudicial to full human development — and on which others have perhaps squandered their wealth. Despite its  achievements, however, Costa Rica is still facing huge obstacles and daunting educational challenges that clearly  outstretch our national capacities. Nonetheless, we are going to face up to them with the same determination and  courage as our grandparents did, while insistently albeit respectfully seeking international support and solidarity, in  which we have every confidence. For we are sure that our achievements — the fruit of sacrifice and our century-old  calling for education, peace and freedom — will not be reduced to a tragic and paradoxical illusion that could  mislead the world community into limiting or refusing assistance and thereby, out of neither desire nor design,  punishing Costa Ricans for their determination and hard work over more than a century of democracy, peace and  educational endeavour.
(40.11) At present, my country’s Government is constantly striving to overcome the injustice that threatens  hundreds of children and youngsters, reduces their chances of effective incorporation in the education system and  unhappily makes it less likely that they will stay on at school, greatly reducing their real chances of success.  Currently, thousands of pupils unable to afford exercise books, textbooks and school uniforms, who need the basic
271   nourishment their families cannot provide or free transport to the nearest school, find partial if not full relief in the  economic support that my people willingly offers them. Costa Ricans wisely choose to spend their money on such  assistance rather than pointless outlays for soldiery and weapons.
(40.12) There is nevertheless still a wide difference in quality between rural and urban schools and we are as  concerned as ever about the shortage of classrooms. It is also urgent to provide more back-up assistance for youth  and children in marginal urban schools; nor can there be any delay in remedying the disturbing shortfall in  secondary school coverage and doing something about the drop-out and repetition rates left over from the 1980s,  from which we have yet to recover.
(40.13) To these challenges is now added the unexpected emergency of having to meet the education needs  arising from the uncontainable avalanche of Central American immigrants fleeing the havoc of natural disasters and  bloody political conflicts or the poverty affecting their countries. Costa Rica, Mr President, distinguished Ministers  and Heads of Delegations, is the country in the world with the most immigrants as a proportion of its population.  Nearly 6% of its school population 1s now made up of immigrant children, most of them the children of illegal  immigrants, who have flooded into the country in recent years, filling many of our schools to the brim and using up  all the resources originally intended to give the least well-off pupils economic and social assistance. My country  has flung its doors wide open and generously granted an extensive amnesty to hundreds of thousands of illegal  immigrants whose children now share classrooms with Costa Rican children, plus free books, school canteens and  grants that were originally earmarked from our education budget for our own poorest pupils. We do all of this in  the satisfaction born of human solidarity, as we are quite convinced that education is a fundamental human right  that nobody may be denied and we are sure that other countries with more resources will not deny us their  assistance in these noble efforts at international solidarity.
(40.14) All of these complex circumstances, the fetters of underdevelopment, unfair international economic  treatment, foreign debt and exclusion hold us in their grip and prevent us from pursuing our aspirations. Despite  that, we Costa Ricans must build our own future with the stuff of dreams and continue our constant search for  excellence and fairness in education, guided by supreme human values and not simply responding to the demands  of the productive sector, which involves the risk of forming not complete men and women but just absurd cogs in  the wheel of a production machine and would mean abandoning the ontological vocation of self-improvement that  should govern every human being’s life.
(40.15) For education in Costa Rica the year 2000 will mark the start of a new adventure in that effort to achieve  higher levels of quality while casting off the perverse chains of inequality that deny many of our children and  youngsters a place at the banqueting table of education. The year 2000 will be a time for making a priority of  educating people in the values and culture of peace. We shall also be giving our young people aged 15 to 19 years  who have dropped out of secondary education the new and innovative option of the Virtual School, a versatile,  interactive way of reaching them in the community where they live and in their own free time. In this way we shall  apply present-day advanced technology and the country’s expanded computer facilities to educating the  underprivileged in order that education may, as we have always dreamed, be an instrument of self-fulfilment not  just for a few, but for all men and women in a country that is large in liberty, justice and peace — citizens of a new  world from which armies are banned for ever, a great world and a wide one where it will be less and less difficult to  love. Thank you very much.
41. Le PRESIDENT :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre, et je donne la parole a l'orateur suivant, S. Exc. M. Ken  Lipenga, ministre de l'éducation, des sports et de la culture du Malawi.
42.1 Mr LIPENGA (Malawi):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished heads of  delegation, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by congratulating Ms Moserov4 on her truly  unique position of being the last UNESCO President of the second millennium, and the one who helps take our  Organization into the third millennium. We of the Malawi delegation wish her well, and we assure her of our  fullest support.
42.2 Mr President, I wish also to pay tribute to the outgoing Director-General for his remarkably successful  term of office. We commend him for the special and infectious enthusiasm he brought to his work. We praise him  with a thousand African drums for the key role he has played in reshaping the image of our Organization, giving  it fresh significance and broadening its scope of action. The outgoing Director-General can be proud of the fact  that it was during his term of office that the United Kingdom rejoined the UNESCO family. We hope it is only a  matter of time before others follow suit and complete the universality of this very important Organization.
42.3 Mr President, Malawi is very happy with recent reform measures which have freed UNESCO from  isolation and stagnation as well as addressing the criticisms of the past. Needless to say, the new millennium  poses many challenges to organizations such as ours. In response, there may be a natural temptation for us to try  and raise as many flags as possible. In our view, the prime objective of UNESCO’s continuing reform
272   programme should be greater efficiency and effectiveness. For example, the process of decentralization should  not just be on paper; it should mean devolving the process of project programming and execution to the field  offices, because that is where the Member States are and where action is expected. Programme evaluation from  Headquarters to field offices should be done in a more systematic and transparent manner, with Member States  taking an active part. The same transparency should be extended to budgetary allocations, particularly to field  offices. For example, it is almost impossible to know what amounts have been allocated to what programme and  at what field office in the current Draft Programme and Budget document. In our view the C/5 document should  be the basic document for programme planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation at the same time. It is  therefore very important to know who does what, where, when and how.
42.4 Mr President, the Director-General has always stressed the important role that National Commissions  play in the work of the Organization, and the Malawi delegation is happy that those sentiments are reflected in  the current C/5 document. However, in order to concretize this complementarity we want to advise that the  current training envisaged by the Division of National Commissions should be extended to UNESCO staff,  particularly in the area of programming and better cooperation with National Commissions.
42.5 We in Malawi have very fond memories of the Director-General’s visit to Malawi in April 1997 and we  have been following with keen interest how he has passionately and religiously embraced the UNESCO mission  of “constructing the defences of peace in the minds of men (and women)”. Today, on the threshold of the twenty-  first century, this objective has lost none of its topicality with the many wars and conflicts that still beset  humanity. It is for this reason that my delegation particularly welcomes the transdisciplinary project, “Towards a  Culture of Peace” and UNESCO's lead in the celebration of the International Year for the Culture of Peace next  year. Values such as respect for human rights, democracy, tolerance and regard for other cultures, love of peace  and international understanding should not elude us. These must be carefully nurtured and inculcated into people:  in the family, in society and at school.
42.6 This is where we would like to particularly welcome the involvement of the worldwide UNESCO  Associated Schools Project network in the Culture of Peace project. This project deserves more attention and  backing from us all because it introduces young people to UNESCO’s ideals at an early stage. While I am still on  the topic of youth, Mr President, you may be aware that in our part of the world young people constitute more  than half of our populations. Therefore, programmes that seek to empower them to make informed choices, to  take charge of their destiny and to make positive contributions towards the development of their societies have  our strongest support. To this end Malawi welcomes the continued assistance that UNESCO has pledged towards  the establishment of the Africa Regional Centre for Guidance, Counselling and Youth Development in Lilongwe,  Malawi, whose legal document we hope will be signed during this Conference after many years of preparatory  work by Ministers from Africa. Malawi wishes to further express its gratitude to fellow African Member States  and to the Finnish Government for the financial, technical and moral support it has so far received from them for  the Centre.
42.7 Because education is a human right, Malawi strongly believes that “basic education for all” should  remain UNESCO?”s top priority. Indeed, it is because we believe education is both a human right and a tool for  poverty alleviation that we introduced free primary education in 1994. The programme has been received with  great enthusiasm by the people of Malawi and has scored remarkable achievements. But it has also been  accompanied by new challenges, and in tackling these Malawi will seek to benefit from the experience and  wisdom of her friends within UNESCO. The time has now come to take stock of the Jomtien World Declaration  on Education for All and reinvigorate efforts to wipe out illiteracy, particularly among the vulnerable groups in  our society. We would therefore request UNESCO and Member States to continue supporting the programmes of  the Institute of Educational Planning which, in our view, is doing a commendable job in evaluating the Jomtien  initiatives.
42.8 We take note of the innovative efforts at world heritage education, particularly targeting young people,  which we commend. We believe that greater efforts should be made towards achieving equity in the recognition  of world heritage sites and the teaching of world heritage. Otherwise we run the risk of giving the impression to  our young that certain parts of the world do not have anything to contribute to the world heritage.
42.9 During the last biennium, my delegation expressed concern over the apparent lack of focus in the  Management of Social Transformation (MOST) Programme. I am glad to note that the Programme and Budget  currently under debate have addressed this concern. Poverty alleviation still remains a top priority in our efforts  to sustain our new democracies and great intellectual efforts are required in this direction. While we may be  celebrating that the world population has passed the 6 billion mark, the sheer numbers pose great challenges to  the sustainable utilization of our limited resources. What lies ahead calls for even greater material and intellectual
273   acumen to find answers to the many new phenomena that beset humanity, what with the HIV-AIDS pandemic,  earthquakes and other natural disasters associated with El Niño and La Niña conditions.
42.10 Finally, Mr President, my delegation supports the lines of action that the Director-General intends to  pursue under the regional and subregional strategies for Africa. We invite the Director-General to increase efforts  to mobilize and solicit extrabudgetary resources to implement pilot projects in priority areas which have been  highlighted and articulated by each programme sector in accordance with its unique situation. We particularly  support the strengthening of the Priority Africa Programme and the establishment of the Priority Africa Special  Account. This will enable priority funding for projects which are unique to the African situation.
42.11 I want to assure you that Malawi, the warm heart of Africa, remains strongly committed to the ideals of  UNESCO. Together with fellow Member States, we believe we can all make UNESCO even more relevant in the  twenty-first century. On behalf of the people of Malawi and indeed on my own behalf, I wish the outgoing  Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, all the best in his new endeavours. The world and the UNESCO family  will miss his experience and wisdom. We also congratulate and welcome the Director-General designate, His  Excellency Mr Koichiro Matsuura, and assure him of our full support and cooperation. I thank you for your  attention.
43. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre, de votre intervention. Je donne la parole à l'orateur suivant, S. Exc. Mme  Edith Tamagnini, ambassadrice, déléguée permanente de Saint-Marin auprès de l'UNESCO.
44.1 Mme TAMAGNINI (Saint-Marin) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Messieurs les délégués, un siècle qui se termine  exige de la part de nous tous beaucoup plus qu'une réflexion. Un siècle qui se termine attend de nous tous une  réponse précise, celle que l'UNESCO nous incite à donner à l'unisson : la célébration de l'Année internationale de  la culture de la paix, pour l'an 2000, et celle de la Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la  non-violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde, de 2000 à 2010. Telle est la réponse pour laquelle  nous sommes tous appelés à oeuvrer.
44.2 Un jour, ma curiosité a été éveillée par un enfant de cinq ou six ans qui saluait avec enthousiasme  chaque personne qu'il rencontrait d'une facon tellement sympathique qu'il y avait en lui quelque chose  d'extraordinaire. Quelques minutes plus tard, alors que cet enfant s'était éloigné avec la jeune femme qui le tenait  par la main, j'ai demandé la raison de ce salut tellement franc et joyeux. Cet enfant avait été adopté depuis peu,  après d'indescriptibles souffrances subies durant ses premières années où il avait vécu dans des conditions  d'esclavage. Cet enfant s'était affranchi, il se présentait à la vie, à la vraie vie, celle qui est fondée sur des rapports  avec des personnes civilisées.
44.3 Je crois que présenter ses excuses, pour les trop nombreuses violences commises pendant ce siecle est  encore trop peu, et est surtout inutile, s'il ne s'ensuit pas un changement radical. Même l'appel a la mobilisation  internationale des consciences peut être stérile s'il ne se traduit pas par des actes et des réponses concrètes. La  réflexion imposée par la conscience issue de l'histoire doit être ancrée dans le réel, c'est-à-dire reconnaître les  erreurs quelle que soit l'offense causée à l'humanité. Le paysage offert à nos yeux, en cette fin de siècle, est  marqué par une impérieuse exigence de normalité démocratique qui jette les bases de règles nouvelles le droit à  l'éducation, à la culture, à la paix et à la responsabilité commune, ainsi que le devoir de coexister avec l'autre.
44 4 Les analyses vibrantes de notre directeur général, Federico Mayor, nous exhortent au changement qui  permettra un réel partage des responsabilités sur notre planète, qui nous permettra de nous libérer des vieux  schémas de l'histoire, pour devenir nous-mêmes acteurs de "l'histoire du futur”. Je dois dire que ses objurgations  sont de précieux encouragements à l'action.
44.5 Le désir pragmatique d'assurer la paix et le respect mutuel de toutes les identités culturelles des peuples  inspire le projet de programme de l'UNESCO, que nous nous apprétons a examiner et à approuver pour les deux  prochaines années. La mission éthique et intellectuelle conférée à l'UNESCO par son Acte constitutif exige que  les Etats membres s'engagent à mener une action constante et cohérente, tant à l'intérieur qu'à l'extérieur de leur  territoire national. Aujourd'hui plus que jamais, il est indispensable d'oeuvrer pour que les acquis de l'éducation  de la science et de la culture, qui illustrent le progrès de l'humanité, deviennent partie intégrante du patrimoine de  chaque personne, de chaque société et de chaque peuple, pour permettre à chacun d'être le protagoniste et  l'artisan de son propre destin.
44.6 C'est dans ce sens que nous poursuivons l'objectif d'une culture de la paix qui associe, sur la base d'une  solidarité mondiale, le respect et la dignité de tous les hommes au bénéfice des générations contemporaines et
274   futures. C'est dans cette direction qu'a agi le gouvernement que j'ai l'honneur de représenter à cette Conférence  générale. Saint-Marin a participé à la célébration du 50e anniversaire de la Déclaration des droits de l'homme, en  traduisant le texte de cette déclaration dans les 250 langues les plus parlées de la planète, et en diffusant ses  articles sur papier et sur l'Internet.
44.7 Concernant le programme, j'ai l'honneur de confirmer que nous apprécions particulièrement  l'engagement de l'UNESCO qui ne cesse de jouer son rôle de catalyseur pour les Etats membres en se fixant des  objectifs prioritaires et concrets et en procédant à une vérification systématique des résultats obtenus.
44.8 Au sujet des activités complexes qui seront analysées par les diverses commissions, je désire simplement  confirmer la pleine adhésion de mon pays a certains objectifs que nous jugeons prioritaires : lutte contre  l'extrême pauvreté et l'exclusion sociale, par des moyens éducatifs permettant d'accéder à l'autonomie ; éducation  pour tous, tout au long de la vie ; lutte contre les catastrophes dans les communautés en danger ; programme  solaire mondial, une particulière attention étant accordée à l'Afrique ; réflexion interdisciplinaire en vue de  favoriser le progrès et le transfert et le partage des connaissances scientifiques dans un environnement  vulnérable ; protection et mise en valeur du patrimoine culturel et naturel ; projet interdisciplinaire : Vers une  culture de la paix ; libre circulation des idées par le développement de l'information et de la communication pour  tous.
449 Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, parmi les innombrables thèmes à  l'ordre du jour, nous sommes appelés à examiner aussi la visibilité de l'UNESCO dans les Etats membres. Le  document pertinent qui contient une analyse et des suggestions très utiles, et le débat dont il fera l'objet, nous  permettront de trouver les moyens les plus efficaces d'aider l'UNESCO en vue d'une meilleure compréhension de  nos réalités.
44.10 Je constate néanmoins dans la société contemporaine une tendance préoccupante à privilégier tout ce qui  surprend, qui fait la une des moyens d'information. L'attention est rarement appelée sur l'aspect positif des  choses, au contraire. Il est absolument nécessaire que les médias présentent à l'opinion publique sous un jour  favorable les résultats que nous venons d'obtenir.
44.11 Je dirai également combien je sais gré au Directeur général, qui arrive au terme de son mandat, d'avoir  encouragé nos pays et nos gouvernements à faire toujours plus et toujours mieux. Je rends hommage aussi à  l'homme de science et de culture, et je lui exprime toute la gratitude de mon gouvernement ainsi que la mienne.  Nous nous félicitons aussi de la décision du Conseil exécutif de proposer à la Conférence générale la candidature  de l'ambassadeur Matsuura pour la direction de l'Organisation et nous souhaitons à ce dernier le meilleur succès.  Je vous remercie infiniment de votre attention.
45. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Madame l'Ambassadrice, de votre intervention. La délégation de la Bulgarie ayant bien voulu  accepter de remettre son intervention à cet après-midi, la liste des orateurs de ce matin est épuisée. Je vous  remercie de votre patience. La séance est levée. Merci beaucoup.  La séance est levée à 14 h.20  The meeting rose at 2.20 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 14.20