Treizième séance plénière
3 novembre 1999 à 15 h.10  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : M. HANRATH (Pays-Bas)  puis : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Thirteenth plenary meeting
3 November 1999 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Mr HANRATH (Netherlands)  later: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Decimotercera sesiôn plenaria
1999411 H3H 58/104  EE: BEREPELT GET AE)  ME: VAR E Cu)  ME: REDE CE AAME)
441   ADOPTION DU PLAFOND BUDGETAIRE PROVISOIRE POUR 2000-2001  ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL BUDGET CEILING FOR 2000-2001  APROBACION DEL TOPE PRESUPUESTARIO PROVISIONAL PARA 2000-2001  YTBEPX/EHHE ITPEABAPUTEJIbHOI'O BEPXHETO ITPEJEJIbBHOI'O YPOBHA BIOJDKETA  HA 2000-2001 IT.  Vasy-vous pole doll SMS ob asdf slate!  A 3 2000—-—200 1 “FI ETATS doe ve PRAT
1.1 THE PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall adjourn the meeting for five  minutes pending a quorum.  (The meeting is suspended for five minutes)
1.2 I declare open the thirteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference. As we decided in the plenary  this morning, we shall now examine agenda item 3.2 Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 2000-2001.  The document for this item is 30 C/81. I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission, who will present to you his Commission’s recommendations. Mr Marshall, you have the floor.
2.1 Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:  Chairperson, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the Administrative Commission’s  recommendation to the General Conference with regard to the provisional budget setting for 2000-2001, I would  like to give you one or two pieces of information about the meeting. I want to recall firstly that the 155th session  of the Executive Board invited the Director-General “to prepare a Draft Programme and Budget for the financial  period 2000-2001 (30 C/5), for further study by the Executive Board at its 156th session, on the basis of zero-  nominal and zero-real growth scenarios”.
2.2 As requested, the Director-General presented two budget scenarios in the Draft Programme and Budget  (document 30 C/5 - the blue book), a scenario A budget level, representing a zero-nominal growth level of  US $544,367,250, and a scenario B budget level representing a zero-real growth level of US $567,812,250. The  two scenarios proposed by the Director-General were the subject of intensive debates in the Finance and  Administrative Commission at both the 156th and 157th sessions of the Executive Board, which led to the  Executive Board’s consensus recommendation of a budget ceiling of US $544,367,250 for the 2000-2001  biennium at an exchange rate of 5.7 French francs to one United States dollar; in other words scenario A, or zero-  nominal growth.
2.3 The Administrative Commission’s debate - that is, at this Conference - on the provisional budget ceiling  per se led to little discussion, most of the delegates who addressed this item considering that the Executive  Board’s recommendation of a zero-nominal growth budget of some $544 million reflected the majority view.  One delegate voiced regrets that a few Member States which are not Members of the Executive Board had felt  unable to take a full part in the discussion. The Commission, however, recommended that the General  Conference approve a provisional budget ceiling of US $544,367,250 as contained in document 30 C/81, which is  before you. Thank you, Madam President.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr Marshall. I now propose that the plenary adopt the draft resolution contained in  document 30 C/81. Are there any comments? There are none. The draft resolution is adopted.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXK/IEHHE BOTIPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)  (æb) doled) dulus)f didlo  HR CHE)
4 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now continue our general policy debate and I have the pleasure of inviting the first speaker of  this afternoon, Her Excellency Ms Soffaleticia Morales Garza, Secretary-General of the United Mexican States  National Commission for UNESCO. Madam, you have the floor.
(5.1) Dr MORALES GARZA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam  Representative of the Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, I shall read out the message sent by the  Minister of Education of Mexico, Mr Miguel Limon Rojas, who is unable to attend for reasons beyond his control  but asks all of you to accept his warmest wishes and his words of tribute to Mr Federico Mayor in recognition of  his accomplishments.
(5.2) It is a great honour for me to express my thoughts, at this rostrum which represents humanity’s highest  aspirations, about the future of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(5.3) The future is, on the one hand, the time yet to come when we would like our dreams to come true, but it  also holds uncertainties and fears; more hopes than fears for those of us who are determined to build peace.
(5.4) I wish, first of all, to congratulate the President on her conduct of the 30th session of our Organization’s  General Conference. I also wish to congratulate Ambassador Koïchiro Matsuura on his nomination by the  Executive Board as candidate for the post of Director-General of UNESCO. I should like in particular to express  my gratitude to Dr Federico Mayor and his staff for the determination and talent with which they have served  peace; for having developed at UNESCO the conviction that the desire to keep peace does not suffice to achieve it,  but that peace must be built on the foundations of equity, justice and freedom; and, in short, for having brought to  light the insoluble bond that exists between peace and development.
(5.5) Federico Mayor has made many wise moves, among which I should like to underscore the decision to  establish the International Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century and to place it under the  chairmanship of Jacques Delors. The Commission suggested many changes, but he retained and highlighted the  idea of educating for a full life. Upholding such an idea at a time when the emphasis was on output and the labour  market has proved to be of the utmost importance. To some extent, as a result of Federico Mayor’s initiative, the  future of education is less uncertain.
(5.6) The future becomes clear when we identify current trends and devise conceptual and legal tools that  permit concerted action. The future lies in the symptoms we see in the present, and can be read fairly correctly  when its language has been learnt from the lessons of history. Today, however, now that this century of such great  and far-reaching changes is nearly over, certain problems are emerging and we must use our imagination to the full  in seeking new, more efficient problem-solving strategies, beginning, as always, with the certainty that education is  one of the most important tools for peacekeeping and peace-building.
(5.7) Among the characteristic features of our time, at least very three different trends stand out, and we should  give thought to their effects to ensure that peace will continue to be built in the next century: growing  globalization, the increasing disparity in the distribution of wealth among nations and individuals and the growing  threat of arms and drug trafficking.
(5.8) In the context of globalization, UNESCO’s role is enhanced as never before. Its global recommendations,  the studies it conducts from a supranational perspective and, in view of the interdependence of the countries of the  world, its future-oriented studies are today crucial for peaceful and constructive coexistence among peoples.
(5.9) Unequal technological and scientific progress among countries is producing such a wide gap between  peoples and individuals that the long-standing distinction between rich and poor might seem insignificant. Faced  with that new version of inequality, UNESCO has ahead of it a task of substantial importance, which is to try to  ensure that the accomplishments achieved by human beings by making use of their best talents really redound to  the benefit of humanity rather than worsen current inequalities.
(5.10) Today, peace is threatened by arms and drug trafficking, not only on account of the violence that it  unleashes but because it perverts life, corrupts health and enslaves individuals. To combat this scourge, our weapon  is education: education that teaches the values that make democratic life possible and teaches freedom, justice,  dignity, equity, respect for others and oneself and the culture of peace; education that fulfils a preventive function  because it develops critical awareness, an ethical sense and a taste for the good things in life. It was this idea that  prompted Mexico to introduce substantial curriculum reforms. However, as the moral conscience of the United  Nations, UNESCO must focus world attention on the fact that the scale of values that is gaining ground today is a  major factor in enabling arms and drug trafficking to advance unimpeded by any moral barriers.
(5.11) There are many very difficult obstacles in the way of peace-building, as can be seen from the violence and  wars that have occurred in the second half of this century. However, one task that stands out above all others, for  which every effort is worthwhile, is that of educating for the future that we want. Those of us who hope cannot  resign ourselves to the idea that Utopia does not exist anywhere. Thank you.
6. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to extend my sincerest thanks to Ms Soffaleticia Morales Garza of Mexico. I should also  like to ask her to convey our greetings to the Minister for Education of Mexico. We appreciate his message, and  let us hope that there will be a “globalization of the positive” that UNESCO can provide, and it should indeed  come through education. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Santiago Ngua Nfumu Eyang, Minister for  Education, Science and Francophonie of Equatorial Guinea. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
(7.1) Mr NGUA NFUMU EYANG (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO Professor Federico  Mayor Zaragoza, Your Excellencies ministers and heads of delegation, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to take the floor in this debate on the Organizations general policy and, in so  doing, I wish first of all to congratulate you, Madam President, on your brilliant election to the presidency of the
30th session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
(7.2) Even as we meet at this session of the General Conference, the international community is faced with  numerous armed conflicts in various parts of the world, and as a result people are increasingly sceptical about the  real impact of peace dividends. With regard to the developing countries, debt servicing continues to overwhelm  their economies and major pandemics cut short the lives of their inhabitants. As if that were not enough, poverty  and illiteracy are constant evidence of the yawning gap between the poor and the rich countries.
(7.3) This picture, a gloomy one in every respect, would plunge us all into pessimism were it not for meetings  and opportunities like this session of the General Conference at which we can all try to join forces to ensure that  many of our countries do not lose the key to their survival, namely faith and hope in a better future. In this regard,  the major initiatives taken by UNESCO have proved to be the most appropriate for keeping the flame of this faith  and hope alight. UNESCO?s function as a forum for reflection and for looking ahead, which has been strengthened  substantially over the past 12 years, must continue to be reinforced so that issues such as the communication  society as it relates to education and the changing role of teachers; the processes of globalization, seen in terms of  their interaction with national development policies; strategies to combat poverty, etc. may result in priority  projects for the new decade.
(7.4) In view of our knowledge about human rights and the rights of peoples, it is somewhat paradoxical that  the path to democratization of many African countries is invariably strewn with bloodshed and violence,  incomprehension and intolerance. Is that not because illiteracy, which has still not been eradicated from our  continent, makes it impossible, as the saying goes, “to see the wood for the trees”? Or is it perhaps a tragic  manifestation of that popular saying “A hungry man is an angry man”? Whatever the reasons, Equatorial Guinea  says “no” to violence and wars. Equatorial Guinea, my country, says “yes” to tolerance and peace. It therefore  considers that UNESCO must continue to play its catalytic role and to consolidate the ethical successes achieved  by giving impetus to the promotion of the Declaration of Principles on Tolerance, the Universal Declaration on the  Human Genome and Human Rights and the Declaration on the Responsibilities of the Present Generations  Towards Future Generations.
(7.5) Our Organization has given the international community a new concept, the “culture of peace”. Peace  must be built by seeking to change behaviour patterns, forge values and promote the institutional changes that are  necessary to remove the deep roots of violence, exclusion and conflict.
(7.6) UNESCO and all its Member States will remember the outgoing Director-General as a man of enterprise  and great initiative, as a serene idealist who succeeded in creating a language capable of arousing in many men and
13   women the thirst for life, the duty to share and the need to make peace a daily practice so as ultimately to achieve a  culture of peace.
(7.7) We believe that the African continent will attempt to consolidate the lessons of the past by promoting  inter alia the important Priority Africa programme. We wish to take this opportunity to express my delegation’s  total support for the proposal to establish a special account for this programme.
(7.8) Equatorial Guinea thanks UNESCO, and especially the outgoing Director-General, for all the technical  and financial assistance it has received from the Organization during the last 12 years, and in particular the crucial  technical and financial support that it received for the establishment and functioning of the National University of  Equatorial Guinea (UNGE).
(7.9) The truth does not hurt, but nothing can be done about it. It will be difficult, if not impossible, to  dissociate Federico Mayor Zaragoza’s name from the Organization’s major successes and achievements at the end  of this century and millennium. Some of us will remember him as a man with a special predilection for the cause of  the poor, the illiterate, women and youth, in a word, as the champion of the cause of the most disadvantaged and  vulnerable. Others will long keep in mind the Spanish fervour of his speeches and the memory of someone who  bequeathed to UNESCO and the international community a vision of the world and a blueprint for society. We  wish him health, long life and success in his future endeavours.
(7.10) Aware as we are that at the end of this session of the General Conference the Organization will have a  new Director-General, we wish to congratulate the Executive Board on having nominated for the post  H.E. Mr Koichiro Matsuura, whom we congratulate and to whom we wish every success in the difficult task that  awaits him.
(7.11) The Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-2001 constitutes the last phase of the Medium-Term Strategy.  In other words, it follows on from the previous programme and budget and must therefore be implemented without  major changes or innovations because the intellectual, ethical and political accomplishments since the approval of  the Medium-Term Strategy in 1995 must be consolidated. This 1s necessary not only for the reasons stated but also  because the proposed programme is future-oriented and, above all, because it must be linked to the new Medium-  Term Strategy for 2002-2007.
(7.12) In education, my country’s government has before it the twin challenge of democratizing education and  enhancing the relevance of educational content. With regard to the first challenge, coverage is being expanded to  provide access to the education system while endeavouring to facilitate children’s enrolment in school; the  government’s efforts to that end have received substantial support in the form of the “non-formal pre-school  preparation” project financed by UNICEF and the 19 UNESCO Associated Schools. The adaptation of content  concerns all levels of our education system and is another major task in which national efforts must be  supplemented by those of the international community. We therefore continue to ask for this Organization’s  assistance and, more specifically, we request the General Conference to approve the plan of action for cooperation  between UNESCO, the Portuguese-speaking African countries (PALOP) and Equatorial Guinea.
(7.13) As stated in the International Declaration “Towards the University of the Twenty-First Century”  (Madrid - Alcala de Henares, April 1999) “... inward-looking attitudes can be overcome through the promotion of  initiatives for international solidarity under which the oldest and most prestigious universities can take up the  challenge of exporting university education”. My delegation therefore appreciates the efforts being made by the  Organization under the UNESCO Chairs Programme, as a result of which the National University of Equatorial  Guinea now has four UNESCO Chairs, three of them approved during the current biennium. One of these is the  UNESCO Chair of Afro-Ibero-American studies, under which activities are carried out in cooperation with Alcald  de Henares University (Spain), with which a twinning agreement was signed in April this year. Another is the  UNESCO Chair of education for peace, respect for human rights and democracy, which aims to educate citizens,  protect the legacy of values that have instilled in us, among other things, more peace-loving attitudes, and  safeguard basic rights. The draft plan of action for this Chair is being finalized in close cooperation with the  National Committee on the Rights of the Child. We are confident that the Organization will continue to support us.  The third is the UNESCO Chair of environmental education. Activities associated with this Chair are being carried  out in close cooperation with Beaver College in Pennsylvania, among others. UNGE has signed a cooperation  agreement with that institution covering several areas, including the protection of the Bioko primates.
(7.14) Considering that peace guarantees democratic processes and the economic, social and cultural  development of nations, the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, after instituting the multi-party  system in 1992, has always placed a premium on national political dialogue with the opposition, which made it  possible to hold legislative elections in 1993, municipal elections in 1995, presidential elections in 1996 and the  recent legislative elections of 7 March 1999, without disturbances or armed clashes. On the basis of President  Obiang Nguema Mbasogo’s political will to proceed along these lines, the government and the opposition have just  agreed at Malabo to postpone municipal elections to the first quarter of the year 2000.
(7.15) With regard to freedom of expression, the Electoral Law of Equatorial Guinea allows all political parties  airtime on the national radio and television, especially during the electoral campaign period. After the
448   promulgation in 1992 of the Law on the Press and Printing, the first in the entire history of Equatorial Guinea,  amended in 1996 to include the audiovisual media, my country now has several independent press organizations,  including those belonging to the 13 officially registered political parties. In addition to those independent bodies,  three new bodies were registered by the government of my country in October.
(7.16) The importance that the Government of Equatorial Guinea ascribes to the issues of human rights, peace  and dialogue has led it to establish a Centre for the Study and Promotion of Human Rights and to propose the  establishment of a Subregional Parliament to the other Central African countries. The United Nations Commission  on Human Rights has not considered it necessary to appoint a Special Rapporteur for my country.
(7.17) My delegation generally supports the consensus that has emerged from our debates on the Programme  and Budget for 2000-2001.
(7.18) Equatorial Guinea is convinced that it can continue to cooperate from within in the Organization’s efforts  to consolidate a vision and a strategy that will enable it to take up the challenges of the twenty-first century, and  has consequently submitted its nomination for election to the Executive Board. We request your support for our  nomination.
(7.19) Madam President, allow me to take advantage of being here at this rostrum, on behalf of the Government  and people of Equatorial Guinea, to wish all delegates here and the countries they represent a merry Christmas and  a prosperous New Year 2000. Thank you.
8. The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, please convey our greetings and best wishes to your country and your people. There is  one thing you said which I deem to be of great importance and which corresponds exactly to the closing words of  yesterday’s distinguished visitor, the Vice-President of Gabon, and that is that we have to have faith and hope  because scepticism is paralysing. So I do appreciate this very much. Thank you, Sir. I now give the floor to  Mr Mehrabodin Masstan, Permanent Delegate of Afghanistan to UNESCO.
9.1 M. MASSTAN (Afghanistan) :  Madame la Présidente, j'ai l'honneur de vous féliciter pour votre élection si méritée. Nous sommes  certains que, guidés par vous, nous parviendrons à mener à bien les tâches qui nous sont assignées. Nous sommes  honorés de voir une femme assurer la présidence de notre assemblée, alors que dans les régions de notre  pays - l'Afghanistan - qui sont occupées par les mercenaires talibans, il est interdit aux femmes de travailler et les  écoles de filles sont fermées depuis cinq ans.
9.2 Madame la Présidente, l'apparition des Taliban, à la fin de 1994, puis l'occupation de certaines  provinces par leurs troupes, ont marqué le début de la destruction de l'infrastructure du système éducatif afghan.  En effet, les Taliban ont privé les filles d'éducation et condamné des milliers d'institutrices à rester chez elles.  Depuis qu'ils ont investi Kaboul, plus de 5.000 étudiantes n'ont plus accès à l'enseignement supérieur. La doctrine  rigide, erronée et primitive professée par les Taliban et leurs alliés extrémistes pakistanais est sans rapport aucun  avec l'islam, lequel prescrit à tous les musulmans, y compris les femmes, de s'instruire.
9.3 Madame la Présidente, les événements ont pris un cours tragique en Afghanistan depuis la dernière  session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO. Sur la scène politique afghane est apparu voici déjà six ans un  nouvel acteur. Le mot "Taliban" qui le désigne collectivement signifie "étudiants en sciences religieuses”.  Derrière ce mot se cache un projet de domination politique et économique émanant de l'extérieur.
9.4 Avec l'assistance des services de renseignements du Pakistan, "ISI", et grâce à la présence en  Afghanistan de personnel militaire pakistanais, les Taliban sont parvenus à occuper militairement certaines  régions du pays. Depuis, le peuple afghan vit une grande tragédie sociale et culturelle dont l'enseignement public  est la victime. Des écoles accueillaient les filles en Afghanistan depuis 1923 et elles s'étaient multipliées dès
9.5 Les femmes afghanes subissent très lourdement les effets de cette tragédie. Avant l'occupation par les  Taliban les femmes de Kaboul jouissaient librement de leurs droits. Les femmes représentaient plus de 60 % du  personnel enseignant des écoles primaires de la capitale. Dans beaucoup d'écoles primaires de garçons,  l'enseignement était assuré en majorité par des femmes. L'interdiction de travailler qui frappe les femmes a obligé  à fermer ces écoles. A l'Université de Kaboul, l'éducation était mixte. Il existait des associations de femmes  défendant leurs droits. Beaucoup de femmes travaillaient dans les différents secteurs d'activité économique de la  capitale. Les Taliban ont interdit toutes ces activités.
9.6 Paradoxalement, alors que la délégation pakistanaise prône dans cette noble enceinte les mêmes idéaux  que les nôtres, c'est l'intervention du Pakistan qui, dans notre pays, a permis aux Taliban d'instaurer une nouvelle
13   dictature. La talibanisation de cette partie de l'Asie centrale est une menace pour la région et pour le reste du  monde.
9.7 Madame la Présidente, c'est la mort dans l'âme que j'informe les membres de cette auguste assemblée  que depuis l'occupation militaire de Kaboul par les Taliban, le 26 septembre 1996, les femmes de la capitale ne  cessent d'être l'objet de persécutions et de mesures de répression. Depuis août 1998, la même tragédie a frappé  Mazar-é-Sharif. A Kaboul, à Hérat comme à Mazar-é-Sharif, les veuves qui soutenaient économiquement leur  famille en travaillant à l'extérieur ont été privées de cette ressource.
9.8 Madame la Présidente, tous ces actes inhumains à l'encontre des Afghans sont perpétrés au nom de  l'islam. En réalité, plus d'un demi-milliard de femmes dans le monde vivent dans une société musulmane. L'islam  reconnaît l'égalité de principe entre l'homme et la femme aussi bien dans le domaine spirituel que dans le  domaine social, juridique et économique. C'est ainsi que dans beaucoup de pays musulmans ici représentés,  l'évolution générale intervenue au XXe siècle a eu des effets salutaires sur la participation continue de la femme  et le progrès social au sein de ces communautés islamiques. Comme l'a très bien dit Tocqueville : "il faut 50 ans  de paix et de prospérité pour l'adoucissement des moeurs".
9.9 Les Taliban ont leur propre interprétation obscurantiste de l'islam. Comment peut-on imaginer qu'un  peuple où les femmes sont illettrées a des chances d'accéder à une quelconque forme de progrès culturel, social  ou économique ?
9.10 Madame la Présidente, l'Afghanistan a contribué durant plus de trois millénaires au progrès culturel de  la région, avant comme après l'introduction de l'islam. Les Afghans sont fiers de leur patrimoine et entendent  continuer de servir les idéaux de l'UNESCO. Les Taliban n'ont aucun égard pour le patrimoine culturel commun  de l'humanité. Au contraire, ils le menacent.
9.11 Le Chef de l'Etat afghan avait ainsi prié le Directeur général de l'UNESCO de prendre des mesures pour  que les deux statues colossales de Bouddha érigées à Bamyan, dans le centre du pays, soient inscrites sur la Liste  du patrimoine culturel. Les Taliban sont parvenus à investir la ville de Bamyan le 14 septembre 1998. D'après  des informations dignes de foi et des photos parvenues en dehors des zones d'occupation, ils ont décapité ces  deux statues.
9.12 L'Etat islamique d'Afghanistan condamne fermement toutes les tentatives visant à détruire le patrimoine  culturel national dans les territoires occupés par les Taliban. Selon les médias pakistanais, nombre de biens  culturels afghans qui ont été pillés sont allés enrichir les collections personnelles de hauts responsables politiques  pakistanais. Nous sollicitons l'assistance de l'UNESCO afin d'obtenir le rapatriement des biens culturels dérobés,  en particulier les objets d'art, pièces de musée, manuscrits anciens et tous autres trésors culturels et artistiques.  Dans une lettre au Directeur général de l'UNESCO en date du 7 mai 1997, M. Khwaja Shahid Hosain a affirmé,  au nom de la délégation pakistanaise, que le porte-parole des Taliban, Mullah Mutawakil, l'avait assuré le
24 avril que ceux-ci respectaient toutes les religions et n'avaient nullement l'intention de détruire les statues de  Bouddha de Bamyan. La note officielle du Pakistan s'est révélée mensongère, comme toutes les promesses des  Taliban. Seul le gouvernement du Pakistan y a cru.
9.13 Je voudrais pour terminer assurer les délégations ici présentes que les Afghans ont plus que quiconque a  coeur de promouvoir par l'éducation, le dialogue et la coopération, une culture de la paix fondée sur le respect de  la vie et le rejet de la violence. Nous rendons hommage au président Khatami pour son allocution tout à fait  remarquable sur le dialogue entre les civilisations.
9.14 La nation afghane est une nation multiethnique et multilinguistique. Cette diversité constitue une  richesse en soi et pour le monde. S'il existe des données éparses sur l'ethnologie et les langues de l'Afghanistan, il  n'existe pas d'ouvrage général rassemblant ces informations si précieuses pour les générations futures.  L'UNESCO, par diplomatie, s'est abstenue de prendre position sur les groupes linguistiques ou ethniques vivant  en Afghanistan. Ne pourrait-elle pas se charger de la réalisation d'un tel ouvrage ? Je vous remercie, Madame la  Présidente.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Mr Mehrabodin Masstan, Permanent Delegate of Afghanistan. Sir, you are no  doubt aware of the fact that this august gathering does not deal with political situations, nor does it interfere in  any political issues, nor does it pass judgement. But it just so happens by great coincidence that only today,  during the lunch break, I received a petition concerning the situation of women in Afghanistan which had been  sent to me at the Senate in Prague and was forwarded to me here, and it corresponds to what you were saying  about the situation of women, without of course putting any blame on anyone, but just setting out the facts of the
450   situation concerning women. And that is the concern of UNESCO. I should like now to call on our next speaker,  Her Excellency Ms Koumba Diakite, Minister of Youth, Sports and Culture of Guinea.
11.1 Mme DIAKITÉ (Guinée) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous me  permettrez, Madame la Présidente, de vous dire, au nom de la délégation de la République de Guinée, le plaisir  que nous éprouvons à vous voir présider les travaux de la 30e session de la Conférence générale de notre  institution. Je suis d'avance convaincue que les résultats obtenus seront tangibles et concrets, tant votre  expérience est riche et variée. Il m'est également agréable de féliciter le Président du Conseil exécutif qui a dirigé  avec beaucoup de compétence et de perspicacité les travaux de la dernière session de cet organe. Nous assurons  également de notre gratitude votre prédécesseur, M. Eduardo Portella, président de la 29e session de la  Conférence générale, pour l'efficacité avec laquelle 1l a présidé la Conférence générale en 1998-1999. La  médaille d'or de l'UNESCO qui vient de lui être décernée en est la meilleure illustration. Enfin, je voudrais dire à  M. Federico Mayor, qui va nous quitter, combien mon pays lui sait gré de s'être employé sans relâche à faire de  l'UNESCO une entité vivante et dynamique, expression de la conscience universelle. La population guinéenne a  par ailleurs vivement apprécié le fait que sa dernière visite en Afrique a eu pour cadre la Guinée où il a été fait  Commandeur de l'Ordre national du mérite par le Président de la République, le général Lansana Conte. La  communauté scientifique, les universitaires et d'autres hommes de culture ont pu le rencontrer et dialoguer ainsi  avec un homme sûr de ses idées et déterminé à les faire partager. Le moment est venu de saluer celui dont les  deux mandats ont été marqués par un grand sens de l'humain. La Guinée vous rend hommage, M. Federico  Mayor.
11.2 Madame la Présidente, notre monde connaît de profonds bouleversements. La fin de la guerre froide, qui  devait entraîner des relations internationales plus conviviales, nous laissait espérer une nouvelle organisation du  monde caractérisée par un système universel plus démocratique. Mais nous nous sommes trouvés impuissants,  face à des doutes multiples, à des relations internationales incertaines et à la naissance d'un monde à deux  vitesses. D'une part, des progrès multiformes ont engendré la mondialisation de l'économie, des échanges et des  idées, la révolution des nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication et des avancées  démocratiques. De l'autre, les conflits, la violence, l'intolérance, l'exclusion et l'iniquité dans les relations entre  nations ont accentué la pauvreté et les fractures sociales, réveillé les nationalismes et aggravé l'analphabétisme  dans plusieurs régions du monde.
11.3 L'Afrique, qui est déjà fragilisée par la pauvreté et les conflits est, de ce fait, particulièrement exposée  aux effets pervers de la mondialisation. Comme vous le savez sans nul doute, depuis une décennie, de violents  conflits armés secouent la sous-région de l'Afrique de l'Ouest. La République de Guinée reste un îlot de paix qui  s'est fait un devoir d'accueillir sur son sol des réfugiés dont le nombre actuel est estimé à 750.000. Elle est ainsi le  pays du monde qui compte aujourd'hui sur son territoire le plus de réfugiés avec toutes les conséquences  économiques, sociales, environnementales que cela comporte. L'insécurité touche tant la population hôte que les  réfugiés. Nous en appelons à la communauté internationale pour qu'elle appuie les efforts humanitaires déployés  par notre pays dans le but de pourvoir aux besoins essentiels de tous ses habitants, quels qu'ils soient, en matière  d'éducation, de santé primaire et d'eau potable.
11.4 Madame la Présidente, en dépit des efforts consentis ces dernières années dans le domaine de  l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, le fossé qui sépare l'Afrique des autres régions du monde ne cesse de se  creuser. Face à cette réalité, l'UNESCO n'a ni failli à son devoir, ni omis de remplir son mandat. Bien au  contraire, notre institution a assumé la fonction d'anticipation qui lui incombait. Elle a sensibilisé les Etats  membres pour relancer et dynamiser la coopération intellectuelle dans le but d'enrichir le contenu de ce qu'il  convient d'appeler la solidarité intellectuelle et morale - car n'est-ce pas là la mission éthique de l'UNESCO ?
11.5 Sur ce plan, l'UNESCO a inscrit à son actif des actions de portée historique et intellectuelle parmi  lesquelles il faut citer le rapport de la Commission internationale sur l'éducation pour le vingt et unième siècle,  présidée par M. Jacques Delors ; le rapport de la Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement,  présidée par M. Pérez de Cuéllar ; la Déclaration universelle sur le génome humain et les droits de l'homme ; la  Conférence mondiale sur l'enseignement supérieur ; la Conférence mondiale sur la science ; les multiples forums  organisés sur l'intégration des femmes dans la dynamique éducative et du développement.
11.6 La République de Guinée appuie le projet de programme tel qu'il ressort du document 30 C/5. Elle  approuve sans réserve les activités relatives à l'éducation, du primaire au supérieur, de l'éducation formelle à  l'informelle. En un peu plus de dix ans, dans ce pays, le taux de scolarisation a plus que doublé, passant de 24 à
52,6 %. En ce qui concerne particulièrement la scolarisation des filles, la République de Guinée entend
13   poursuivre avec détermination la politique menée dans ce secteur. En 1998, sur les 400.000 enfants inscrits dans  l'enseignement préscolaire, 800.000 étaient des filles.
11.7 Par ailleurs, mon gouvernement accorde un rang de priorité élevé au programme relatif à l'éducation de  base pour tous. En effet, il importe d'assurer une éducation intégratrice pour tous, tout au long de la vie, et de  permettre une meilleure articulation, voire une intégration de toutes ses composantes formelles et non formelles  telles que définies à Jomtien. Ma délégation souhaite vivement qu'il soit tenu compte de cette unicité.
11.8 Par ailleurs, Mesdames et Messieurs, n'oublions pas les jeunes qui constituent l'avenir et vis-à-vis  desquels nous avons des obligations. Ils l'ont rappelé à Lisbonne, à Genève, à Moncton et tout récemment à Paris  lors de la séance inaugurale de notre 30e session. Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour inviter les Etats membres,  les ONG, la société civile et les autres intervenants à traduire dans les faits les décisions issues de ces différentes  rencontres. Je voudrais également exhorter les Etats membres à soutenir le projet "Vers une culture de la paix"  car, ne l'oublions jamais, sans la paix, il n'y aurait ni éducation, ni science, ni culture et, par conséquent, il ne  saurait y avoir de développement.
11.9 Madame la Présidente, mon gouvernement souscrit aussi aux autres programmes relatifs à la science, au  développement culturel et surtout aux nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication. La  dichotomie que l'on constate aujourd'hui entre le monde dit développé et le monde dit en développement doit  faire place à des échanges plus poussés dans le domaine de la technologie de l'information et de la  communication. Nous estimons que l'UNESCO devrait y veiller particulièrement et faire de l'obtention d'un tel  résultat une priorité du XXIe siècle.
11.10 Nous encourageons également la politique de décentralisation qui a permis à mon pays de rendre les  actions de l'UNESCO plus visibles et plus efficaces sur le terrain.
11.11 Enfin, la République de Guinée approuve les réformes susceptibles d'améliorer le fonctionnement de  l'institution et continuera de promouvoir les initiatives novatrices concernant "Priorité Afrique”, la scolarisation  généralisée, le renforcement des capacités scientifiques et technologiques, l'action des commissions nationales et  surtout le dialogue interculturel.
11.12 La Guinée soutiendra les efforts de l'UNESCO et de son nouveau directeur général afin que l'UNESCO  du XXIe siècle reste la garante de l'éducation, la culture, la science et la communication pour un monde plus  équitable et plus solidaire. Je voudrais pour terminer souhaiter un plein succès à cette session, la dernière du  millénaire. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
12. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to extend my thanks to Her Excellency Ms Koumba Diakite, Minister of Youth, Sports and  Culture of Guinea. Madam, your message was heard, taken into account and understood. May I also express our  appreciation of your country’s generosity in offering asylum to so many refugees.  PRESENTATION DE LA MAQUETTE DU MEMORIAL DE GOREE  PRESENTATION OF THE GOREE MEMORIAL SCALE MODEL  PRESENTACION DE LA MAQUETA DEL MONUMENTO CONMEMORATIVO DE COREA  IIPF/ICTABJIEHHE MAKETA MEMOPHAJIA TOPE  sy dy 38 Foi) pascal JU uo je  NARTE OS AE
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Now, dear friends, as I notified you at the end of the morning session, I am pleased to inform you that  the Director-General and Professor Harry Robinson III, Chairman of the International Commission for the Gorée  Memorial, will now present the Gorée Memorial scale model to the plenary.
13.2 You may recall that the Gorée Memorial project was launched on the initiative of the President of the  Republic of Senegal to commemorate the Black or African slave trade. The project’s philosophy is based on  tolerance, forgiveness and human fraternity. The project received the support of the General Conference at its
27th session, as well as that of the Organization of African Unity and the Black Diaspora in the United States of  America through some of the most prominent representatives of African Americans, such as the Reverend Jesse  Jackson, Colin Powell, Andrew Young and the Reverend Leon Sullivan. Mr Director-General, you have the  floor.
14.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames  et Messieurs, la réalisation du projet de Mémorial de Gorée est l'un des objectifs majeurs de l'UNESCO sur le  continent africain. Est-il encore besoin, notamment après la séance très importante que le Conseil exécutif a  consacrée a cette question, de présenter à votre auguste assemblée cette ile hautement symbolique du plus grand  génocide de l'histoire de l'humanité : la traite négrière. L'idée d'ériger un mémorial de Gorée, non pas sur l'Île de  Gorée mais au point le plus occidental de l'Afrique, sur ce qu'on appelle la presqu'île du Cap-Vert, à Dakar, afin  de perpétuer le souvenir des victimes de la traite négrière vient du Président de la République du Sénégal,  M. Abdou Diouf lui-même.
14.2 Ce projet a obtenu le soutien de l'Organisation de l'unité africaine, de l'UNESCO, comme Madame la  Présidente de la Conférence générale vient de le souligner et, surtout, de l'ensemble de la diaspora noire. La  communauté noire des Etats-Unis a manifesté un très grand intérêt. Le révérend Jesse Jackson a tenu à se  déplacer personnellement pour la pose de la première pierre du Mémorial en présence de chefs d'Etat réunis à  l'occasion du 28e Sommet de l'OUA à Dakar. Le révérend Leon Sullivan, le général Colin Powell et  l'ambassadeur Andrew Young ont également manifesté leur soutien total.
14.3 La philosophie de ce projet est fondée sur le pardon, la tolérance, la fraternité. À la fois rappel de la  souffrance de l'homme noir et symbole de pardon et de réconciliation, le Mémorial s'élèvera en face de l'île de  Gorée, à la pointe occidentale de l'Afrique, au bord de l'Atlantique. Témoin d'un drame qui a assombri l'histoire  de l'humanité, le Mémorial est aussi un signe de confiance en l'être humain, et en sa capacité de transcender le  passé pour se projeter dans un avenir de solidarité. Mais le Mémorial parle surtout aux Africains eux-mêmes en  tant qu'expression concrète de leur identité culturelle qui s'affirme comme une source d'espérance à l'aube du  prochain millénaire. Le Mémorial de Gorée n'est donc pas seulement un monument commémoratif, c'est d'abord  un important instrument culturel au service des droits de l'homme dans leur ensemble, qui a pour mission de  lutter contre l'oubli du passé, et plus encore de préparer l'avenir.
14.4 C'est pourquoi il est conçu comme un centre culturel à vocation internationale, comme un phare propre à  favoriser l'appréciation mutuelle des cultures, la fraternité humaine et le respect des droits de l'homme. A la fois  pivot d'un réseau informatique consacré à la traite négrière et foyer d'étude sur l'ensemble des droits de la  personne humaine liés à la lutte contre le racisme et la discrimination.
14.5 Madame la Présidente, nous avons aussi pensé qu'il serait bon d'associer l'ensemble de la diaspora noire  au financement de ce projet en invitant chacun de ses membres à y contribuer, à la mesure de ses moyens, de  façon que le Mémorial incarne symboliquement la mobilisation de cette diaspora, soudée dans un même esprit de  fraternité et de tolérance.
146 Les travaux d'aménagement du site ont déjà commencé. Une commission internationale de 15 membres,  présidée par le professeur Harry Robinson III de la Howard University de Washington, a été constituée par  l'UNESCO. Elle a pour mission d'assurer, en coopération avec le secrétariat du Mémorial à l'UNESCO, la  réalisation et la promotion internationale du projet. Un concours architectural a été lancé à cet effet en 1996 sous  l'égide de l'UNESCO et de l'Union internationale des architectes et a abouti à la sélection du projet de M. Ottavio  Di Blasi, architecte italien dont la maquette vous est présentée aujourd'hui. Avec votre permission, Madame la  Présidente, j'aimerais céder ma place à la tribune au professeur Harry Robinson afin qu'il vous présente lui-même  la maquette du projet de Mémorial de Gorée. M. Robinson, vous avez la parole.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Mr Robinson, you have the floor.
16.1 Mr ROBINSON (Chairman of the International Commission for the Gorée Memorial):  Thank you, Mr Mayor. Madam President, Mr Traoré, delegates of the 188 States, Minister Kane from  Senegal, it is my pleasure on behalf of the Commission to say just a few words for you. You can understand the  disadvantage of speaking after Mr Mayor, because he took my entire speech! But thank you for doing that, Sir, it  makes my job much easier! I want to express my special appreciation to President Abdou Diouf, for he was really  the person who had the idea for the memorial. Every great idea has to start somewhere, even from the size of a  mustard seed, and from that mustard seed we find ourselves today with a powerful design facing West, towards  the New World, but anchored in Africa, anchored in the soul of the motherland. I also want to say: many, many  thanks to our patron here, Mr Traoré who has been steadfast in moving us forward. As most of you know, this  project has been going on for almost 12 years now, but it was not until 1995, when Mr Traoré stepped forward  with President Abdou Diouf, that we were really able to make progress.
16.2 This is a very, very special project. It asks for nothing, it seeks nothing and it gives everything. It is a  bridge to peace. It is a focus for forgiveness and healing in the Diaspora. It is more than a symbol - it is a spirit. I  hope, if you get the chance, that you will take a look at it. Let me talk very briefly about the architect’s design.  The 90-metre tower is modelled on the Great Mosque in Burkina Faso; if you look at the plaza, the plaza is  bifurcated - it is separated, symbolizing the tearing away from the motherland of the Africans who went to the  Diaspora. It is a powerful design - you cannot imagine the enthusiasm for this in my country. Certainly the people  who have stepped forward to co-chair the commissions and committees are of the kind I have told you about  previously; but as I speak to small people in America, the average man in America - and Mr Traoré has sent me  around the world and I have criss-crossed my country talking about this - as I speak to the small people, the  people who can give $10, you cannot imagine their enthusiasm for the project. One of the big ideas that has come  up is to have chiselled into the plaza the names of people in America, with the theme “return your family’s name  to the motherland soil”. I have had church groups call me at home and say “Mr Robinson, when can we buy our  name subscriptions?”. It is very, very important - notwithstanding the large contributions we get - we connect  with the average person in the world, throughout the Diaspora.
16.3 The other idea, apart from having your name inscribed in the soil of Africa, is the peace forest. You  notice that this is a heavily forested site: we have a young man in Ghana who is an ethnobotanist, and we are  going to have a peace forest where you can buy a tree and plant it in this peace forest, and you can come and see  your tree. We think it is going to be a boon to tourism in Africa. It is a very, very important project.
16.4 I am more than pleased to present this to you. I seek your continued support and I am available to do  whatever is needed to make this happen. It is the end of my career; I took off a year from Howard University to  work on this. Mr Traoré has been just outstanding in supporting me. Our next step is a capital campaign - we are  going to have a feasibility study done in the next two months, and from that we will know how to raise the money  to build it. I am very excited about this and I hope that all of you will come in about 2005 to the dedication. I  thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Professor, I think that everyone in this room understands the symbolic significance of the Gorée  Memorial and appreciates the work you have contributed. We thank you very much for being with us and  introducing this model.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYKJIEHUE BOIIPOCOB OBIE MOJIUTHUKH (npoxomxenne)
18. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now continue the general policy debate. I invite His Excellency Mr Yasser Abed Rabo,  Minister of Culture and Information of Palestine, to take the floor.  : (Ortrneld) dy, cue Sud 14)  pubis Bs Baludly eolasdl cpl ald Spd! CSST Gall Gundy sand! CHU! dandy Saud  cmd AU LUN odd Gall 0 pais Subd) add lias (S| Jui ol, pls] wail of J  polly Blsluadly andl § pall Sie ¢Lppdll psab All Ledloal à  le 135 V Lol> 15121 hands 50S Lda) Us QuiSs sSusall pL jaigel) LILI 89001 of NAN  [5 l>sab oo of 0025 pol aia andy chaos Lai 3 Jabal Les ax Dhs dials gb an  prie Lady Jultional) S dal Lal fiw! Génie Suite DS og Ul oad 5 degli  Jal oo vylaillz Blsladly Lally Jandy Tasty 05$7 of Lao on sar 08 Jo AY à Lead,  ae leg « yidllg SH Lela! Bead! a le cabin boo oo US Gaby Jai lass  wolyadly ols Gai pli saws Jeg (iby Laid! lob
454   Lely coogi! ULI Gbgo ob Gubsld Badly ol SSD) delay Und afl) Au, Sop NAY  Sul Saga [IRIN SH KN pd a” Bordo si) Sudsdll 8 pol Liles Gall ood ped! pl Sg  eal dg GMI pay êdl (3e pogaig Lal did wid LS (sSadpll sll pall Gabe Saad  J325 § gS! Lgiond 1 Ligalll Loslasall cipbald ais pS) Ji Bly 315503, al 51 Sly Aa  fo 0 Lue 2 ul oo sped! Oly Asi Jey cdugolo dis J Top £9.50  de Jal gis Abid! Siobie 0955 of JET pl pall go Gb cd) dan 5 pall  Sen "ya p> cap” elas] Bobs) pe Oded Wl ods § pol SU pi] yaad gS  dis y ior oe JET oly Ala Lol oda 5 Ladd 4S, Lal) Sabres] cand] ply pS]  Galery Min Baye § ped] lie dual Bliisly pogeddl Jo pais Me 4d Jolgll Ses]  eg yall byl 43g Balainlg  Cou Bgl Ljlasdly LAY All Ll Jo Wl gSuigdl cops iil dad) Saudi 148  om 159 Aude Blisdly SUN Leal) BIS gad Dual 2g! ding cooly Bl Ge 5S dcgamo wan  dig olly pS 9336 5 végadl ill à Léon Pressouyre yg ys (3 5389581 SUN ple © Fl dl  Corll Lge 22g SI JES pre Dale Daly disnsss JS: om dus (1998/3 /0 5 Y/pre  Sled Bell 505] SES 02s gland! Lenlhyy LI Gans banal Jl wigs! Le lbs,  FH Gens Î 598 de kagll odd U cla)lyañel peo Bly sense send] degl Saad 355,200  B15 Oyo § Bnd! boggy sSussll pos) Subd] Contd! Gal 038,05 SSI Lal 4 2s Ÿ Lis 14,0  i + 3 dates dsl]! ss, ml poll Sse Hot Le oe dass ng  ke oo en Sis Joe A H i 05S5y «poll oi = liso Sly sus [CW]  g Lidl Jal go UY 55 Jo Lund aslasy dub Lal le JS Jb SIN Lally gal  hls Ab iaglf JB  pole om BI SA) JV dgis sSuisdl Lasliinl 28] OF VI day V (5 3T Zab Ge NAN  GHEY LlrinlS (pd! BUA Zdsall Li ABS es duno lo dpa GMI elos Vs (Yr 1440
3H aT of Dll ogy J anbyy PDA BGS Lal Bl” vo Li Sail] LOU doll dma  lb pDLAI BU p30 of pO! BUS p30 Sols 3 5,0 sugers pile dad! 4; pbs! SSII Gol  ne 339 .4lalb55 sabes] TAY ela lial pl oo Jal ds ¢ Aiba] Gi Scale SAI  gkons of RIE SH Sabi] cad pes J Oo oad] Gans Basso” slid Le jolies US Ge oSussldl
33 le wld! li, Sis dpb asd LIL lagar Glbiy pd] BUS p90 of LS Layehiy Lpass Je  dass, Sagmad| oll 7 dl pb! + Uy lead! gas ade & cs J! Lis «pO i] 5e
354 of Ge gabedidly ASIN Gand) Gur FOLIE BUS Le ASE Lubes BUS ss of ug  slog «mall jug Basally dll 5 Sabaeaddl] Cand) Log ll Geil Glin] oy Ll Lilo SasG Le  pSiiblgey Juolgill pSass pguniws Adsl due 1 OLIS JI lel ual] Lgisoley dial aly  BUS pypte plrdly Sas à July (Adal de Il wl Jol sailly Gal sli] § sled)  Agog Lueallly iby Aili whi Jo pO
2 SEA [PIN ESN I ES pe of 5) PPO pls § «Sole Slam pai3ll LS, Saad NAN  AM Bsn ale Boll pSyas8e Gola oF § Ul os uel oly cpl pall Gal 3205 23S [sels  Sy JI SUN GES) asd gs De Gupdially meld] GSI ly «lB JS Ge pS Sal
(19.1) Mr ABED RABO (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it  is a great honour for me to address you, and to convey to you the greetings of the Palestinian people and their great  esteem for this Organization, which, in its noble goals, enshrines the age-old aspirations of humanity to justice,  equality and peace.
(19.2) It is no secret that the current session of the General Conference of UNESCO is endowed with great  symbolic significance and particular operational importance. It is being held as humanity is about to enter a new  millennium, and is preparing for a decade which the world’s peoples hope will fulfil their legitimate aspirations to  security and prosperity. UNESCO’s strategy for the future will spring from the resolutions adopted at this  Conference, and that strategy will translate humanity’s desire for openness toward a new centurys, one which we  all hope promises justice, freedom, equality and cooperation in meeting the challenges of the future. This applies  to, inter alia, closing the widening gap between rich and poor, the new information society, the preservation of  cultural and linguistic diversity, the role played by education and educational institutions, including universities, in  formulating national development policies and consolidating respect for human rights and freedoms.
(19.3) Madam President, I need not remind you that my country, Palestine, is the cradle of the monotheistic  religions and the birthplace of the founder of Christianity. We greatly appreciate UNESCO’s initiative in adopting  the “Bethlehem 2000” project, and I should like to express my admiration for the hard work and the forward-  looking vision of Mr Federico Mayor, the Director-General, in connection with that project, to which we attach the  utmost importance. It is with a feeling of pride that I convey to you Palestine’s appreciation of UNESCO’s  inestimable contribution to the work of transforming the “Bethlehem 2000” project into tangible reality. I take  great pleasure in informing you that President Yasser Arafat, as a means of expressing and translating that  appreciation, has approached the Director-General of UNESCO and requested that this Organization should be the  locale for the announcement, next 29 November, of the beginning of the celebration of “Bethlehem 2000”. I am  pleased, on behalf of the Palestinian people, to invite you all to come and participate personally in that evening of  celebration. I should also like to convey to you the greetings of the Palestinian people and express their great  esteem for your uninterrupted support over the past two decades in particular, and their acknowledgement of the  importance of that support in their quest for independence and sovereignty and the recovery of their legitimate  national rights.
(19.4) Madam President, UNESCO has always sought to protect the archaeological and cultural monuments of  the city of Jerusalem, and has adopted many resolutions to that effect; it has also made admirable efforts to preserve  and protect the city’s cultural heritage. The internationally renowned archaeologist, Professor Léon Pressouyre, has  submitted a report to this Conference (30 C/12, dated 5 October 1999) describing, with the utmost objectivity and  scientific impartiality, the serious dangers currently threatening Jerusalem, and the appalling alterations that have  disfigured and continue to disfigure the city’s character and cultural heritage. I thank the Organization for  acknowledging the great importance of Professor Pressouyre’s work and agreeing to provide further support to  enable him to continue with it, inasmuch as that work plays a role in enhancing awareness of the need for energetic  action to put a stop to these violations.
(19.5) I am well aware that you understand the Palestinian people’s need for UNESCO?s support and generous  efforts with the tasks of preserving our heritage, strengthening our identity, building our national political and  cultural institutions and obtaining our independence. UNESCO, in a variety of programmes and projects, has made  it clear that it recognizes the importance of supporting Palestinian education and culture as a fundamental element  in the building of peace. This attitude has encouraged us to ask for further support and to request UNESCO’s  assistance for our own efforts to develop an ambitious strategy in the fields of culture and education, one that will  be appropriate for the coming century and will help us recover from the long decades of occupation, war and  destruction that have affected every aspect of our national life, and will help us, as a people, to muster the  capabilities we need in order to develop in a setting of democracy and stability.
(19.6) Turning to other matters, I should like to commend UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-2001  and its admirable endeavours to coordinate the activities of the International Year for the Culture of Peace in  response to the resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaiming the year 2000 the  International Year for the Culture of Peace. In this connection, I am pleased to single out the special role assumed  by Mr Mayor and his estimable efforts in crystallizing the culture of peace project, the activities relating to which  are being coordinated by UNESCO. That project addresses one of the most important needs and aspirations of the  Palestinian people, a fact acknowledged by UNESCO through its establishment of a Coordination Unit for Action  in support of the Palestinian people. I hope to see that unit strengthened and expanded. The culture of peace project  also requires a worldwide effort to change the way people think and act, in order to strengthen the basis of peace  while simultaneously avoiding the occurrence of conflict and building peace and trust among humanity. Madam  President, the foundations of a Palestinian culture based on a culture of peace between the Palestinian and Israeli
456   peoples must be solid and lasting. They must consist of the realization of the Palestinian people’s legitimate rights  to liberation, return, self-determination, and the building of an independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, in  accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. With your unstinting support and your courageous  assistance, right will prevail and those resolutions will be implemented at last. That will promote the success of the  culture of peace project at the national, regional and international levels.
(19.7) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I should like to commend the Executive Board for  its selection of Mr Matsuura as the sole candidate for the post of Director-General. I should like to express my hope  that this Conference will endorse that selection by consensus. I look forward to seeing you all next 29 November.  Thank you.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency, the Minister for Culture and Information of Palestine. Thank you,  Your Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency, Mr Damien Zinsou Modéran Alahassa, Minister for National  Education and Scientific Research of Benin. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
21.1 M. ALAHASSA (Bénin) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les distingués membres des  délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de mon pays, la République du Bénin, je voudrais tout d'abord  m'associer aux félicitations bien méritées qui vous ont été adressées, Madame la Présidente, pour votre élection à  la présidence de la Conférence générale, et vous souhaiter plein succès dans l'exercice de vos fonctions.  J'aimerais également exprimer ma reconnaissance au Président du Conseil exécutif pour les efforts qu'il a  déployés, de concert avec le Secrétariat, pour la préparation matérielle et intellectuelle de cette session. Qu'il me  soit permis, Madame la Présidente, d'exprimer la profonde gratitude de mon pays au Directeur général sortant,  M. Federico Mayor Zaragoza, et de lui rendre le vibrant hommage qu'il mérite. En effet, il a su, avec  compétence, détermination, dévouement, et dans une optique toujours empreinte d'humaniste équanimité,  s'acquitter de la mission qui lui a été confiée lors de la 24e session de la Conférence générale. Nous lui sommes  reconnaissants pour sa contribution personnelle au renforcement de la coopération entre le Bénin et l'UNESCO et  lui souhaitons plein succès dans ses entreprises futures qui, nous n'en doutons pas, se situeront dans le  prolongement de son action à l'UNESCO pour l'avènement d'une culture de la paix.
21.2 Madame la Présidente, la 30e session de la Conférence générale est la dernière de ce siècle, ce qui nous  enjoint de jeter un regard, serait-il bref, en arrière, afin de mieux envisager le futur. Notre siècle aura été  assurément le plus prométhéen de tous. La technoscience nous a fait faire des progrès prodigieux, dépassant  parfois l'attente et l'imagination de l'humain moyen. Notre siècle est celui de la conquête de l'atome, des satellites,  des fusées et de la conquête de l'espace, au point que l'expression "vouloir la lune”, qui symbolisait naguère le  summum de l'utopie, se trouve désormais vidée de sa valeur métaphorique. Les biotechnologies et les  manipulations génétiques, induites par la découverte de la cellule et du gène, nous ouvrent les perspectives  inédites sur la vie. Avec la télévision, l'informatique et la révolution des télécommunications que rendent possible  les technologies du numérique, l'humanité se trouve projetée, un peu hébétée, sur les fameuses autoroutes de  l'information.
21.3 Toutes ces conquêtes, en un siècle, ont fait accomplir à l'humanité des pas de géant. Mais l'humanité en  sort-elle grandie ? Rien n'est moins sûr. Si nous ne pouvons plus "vouloir la lune”, ayant parcouru la distance qui  la sépare de la terre, il nous reste à franchir, comme nous le rappelle le poète brésilien Carlos Drummond de  Andrade, "la distance de l'homme à l'homme”, geste sans lequel, mesurés à l'aune de l'humanisme, nous  demeurerions des nains, malgré, paradoxalement, les pas de géants que nous avons fait accomplir à la science.
21.4 C'est dire que jamais l'humanité n'aura dû relever autant de défis aussi divers qu'imbriqués, mais tous,  faut-il le souligner, à sa mesure. Madame la Présidente, de ces défis, qui accouchent de certains maux qui sont  comme autant de lèpres sur le corps de l'humanité, je ne vous imposerai point un catalogue. Qu'il me suffise d'en  mentionner quelques-uns, ceux qui, de par leur nature, nous paraissent le plus susceptibles de nous aider à mieux  cibler et actualiser les objectifs de notre Organisation : l'analphabétisme traditionnel persistant à travers le  monde, notamment dans les pays en développement parmi lesquels le continent africain continue de détenir le  triste record du taux de scolarisation le plus bas, avec une moyenne arithmétique inférieure à 40 % (sur ce même  continent, l'alphabétisation et l'éducation des adultes ne se portent pas non plus le mieux du monde,  particulièrement chez les femmes et les jeunes que le train lancé à folle allure de la mondialisation dépasse sans  s'arrêter, lorsqu'il ne les projette pas sur les bas-côtés de l'exclusion) ; l'inquiétant effritement des valeurs de  partage et la dissolution des solidarités découlant, non pas d'une insuffisance des ressources mais de leur inégale  répartition, marquée aussi par la criminelle inconscience du gaspillage ; la rupture, de plus en plus scandaleuse,  par l'homme, du contrat naturel qui le lie aux autres éléments de l'univers ; la remontée des idéologies racistes
13   génératrices d'horreurs, de "nettoyages ethniques”, de préjugés sexistes, de xénophobies et de formes indicibles  des violations des droits humains.
21.5 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, ce n'est point trop dire que d'affirmer, comme le faisait  naguère un poète allemand, que "l'humanité se détériore”. Et face aux dangers et aux périls qui aujourd'hui  menacent la paix dans le monde et compromettent de ce fait l'existence de l'humanité, la mission intellectuelle,  morale et d'anticipation dévolue à l'UNESCO n'en devient que plus pertinente et plus pressante. Aujourd'hui plus  encore qu'hier, la vie, la pérennité, la survie même de tout ce qui respire sur la terre, sous terre et dans les eaux  dépendent véritablement du courage et de la clairvoyance de cette agence intellectuelle et de sa détermination à  poursuivre inlassablement l'oeuvre d'édification des "défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes", notamment,  en rappelant que la première dette contractée envers les générations montantes ou à venir, qui n'ont pas connu les  pogroms des deux grandes guerres de ce siècle et les guerres coloniales venues ensuite, est celle d'un devoir de  mémoire.
21.6 Nous devons donc renforcer plus que jamais le rôle joué par l'UNESCO comme conscience  intellectuelle et morale la plus aiguë de la planète comme laboratoire d'idées libératrices, comme creuset dans  lequel la science et la conscience se fondent pour congédier à jamais le spectre terrifiant de la ruine de l'espèce  humaine. Nous ne pouvons donc que saluer l'initiative d'une "culture de la paix", tout en invitant les Etats  membres à l'approfondir et à en étudier les nombreuses dimensions et les conditions de réalisation. Pour la  délégation du Bénin, ce concept ne saurait être mis en oeuvre sans un autre qui est son complément, qui est un  peu comme son frère siamois, celui d'une "culture du juste partage du pain”. Ces deux concepts se déterminent et  se conditionnent mutuellement, et les séparer, ou monter l'un en épingle, au détriment de l'autre, risquerait fort de  les réduire et de les appauvrir en en faisant des slogans inopérants.
21.7 Permettez-moi, Madame la Présidente, de saluer du haut de cette tribune les efforts éminemment  louables que ne cesse de déployer l'UNESCO pour accomplir sa noble mission historique, et qu'illustrent des  acquis indéniables dans ses divers domaines de compétence. Ainsi l'éducation, en tant que nectar de la vie, a  largement préoccupé la communauté intellectuelle mondiale à l'occasion, notamment, de la Conférence de  Hambourg sur l'éducation des adultes, en juillet 1997, et celle de Paris sur l'enseignement supérieur, en octobre
1998. Il en est de même de la culture dont l'importance et le rôle dans le développement ont été mis en relief et  rappelés avec force à Stockholm, en mars-avril 1998, à l'occasion de la tenue de la Conférence  intergouvernementale sur les politiques culturelles pour le développement. De même, Madame la Présidente, je  ne saurais passer sous silence sans en ressentir une certaine culpabilité, la rencontre de Budapest au cours de  laquelle, du 26 juin au ler juillet 1999, la science, sa nature, sa finalité, ses applications et leurs impacts sur  l'homme et son cadre de vie ont fait l'objet de fructueux échanges entre d'éminentes personnalités du monde  scientifique et d'illustres décideurs politiques, sous le regard optimiste et témoin des jeunes et des femmes  aspirant au progrès et à la paix.
21.8 Ce sont là autant d'acquis sur le plan de la réflexion et de la recherche en commun des solutions aux  problèmes brûlants de notre planète. Mon pays souhaite que les efforts entrepris soient poursuivis avec courage,  que les acquis enregistrés soient renforcés et consolidés grâce au suivi et à la mise en oeuvre effective, par  l'Organisation et ses Etats membres, des déclarations issues des différentes conférences, ce qui, au demeurant, ne  nous paraît pas possible sans le recours à la solidarité et à la coopération agissantes en notre sein.
21.9 En direction des pays en développement, les efforts consentis par l'Organisation dans le sens de la  démarginalisation des femmes en vue de leur épanouissement devraient être accrus tout au long du prochain  exercice biennal. C'est ici, Madame la Présidente, qu'il convient de souligner toute l'importance des activités  transversales et des projets transdisciplinaires et plus particulièrement de "Priorité Afrique". Mon pays souhaite  que de substantielles ressources soient mises à la disposition du département qui en est chargé pour le renforcer.  Ce faisant, l'UNESCO démontrerait que l'Afrique est perçue comme la priorité, non pas des seuls pays africains,  mais de tous les Etats membres.
21.10 Madame la Présidente, au moment où notre Conférence générale s'apprête à déclarer que la traite des  esclaves est un crime contre l'humanité, je m'en voudrais de ne pas souligner l'importance d'un projet cher à notre  Organisation, j'ai nommé le projet interculturel "La Route de l'esclave”. En ma qualité de représentant d'un pays  qui a pâti pendant quatre siècles de ce qui constitue une ignoble ponction humaine, je me fais un devoir de mettre  en exergue le caractère universel d'un tel projet et des tâches qui en découlent, puisque les puissances  esclavagistes, en dominant le monde, ont inoculé le virus du racisme et des préjugés contre l'homme noir à tous  les autres peuples avec lesquels elles entraient en contact, quand bien même ceux-ci ne participaient pas à la  traite. Dans ce cas aussi s'impose un devoir de vérité, comme un devoir de mémoire, pour qu'enfin les peuples  commencent à se percevoir de façon plus saine, condition indispensable d'une culture de la paix.
21.11 Madame la Présidente, le Bénin voudrait, par ma voix, réaffirmer qu'il croit aux nobles idéaux de notre  Organisation et les soutient. Nous lançons un appel aux pays les plus pourvus afin qu'ils mettent à la disposition  de l'UNESCO les moyens dont elle a besoin pour financer les ressources de l'intelligence et du coeur qui aideront  l'humanité entière à relever les défis du XXIe siècle.
21.12 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, avant de conclure mon propos, je tiens à féliciter la  République des Palaos et les Etats fédérés de Micronésie pour leur admission comme Etats membres de  l'UNESCO et à leur souhaiter la bienvenue au sein de notre grande famille. Puisse leur arrivée, à l'orée d'un  nouveau millénaire, faire, comme le voulait Aimé Césaire, une grande voix de ce siècle dont les échos nous  inspireront encore au prochain, puisse leur arrivée faire, dis-je, que "la justice écoute aux portes de la beauté”. Je  vous remercie de votre attention.  (Mr Hanrath, Netherlands, takes the Chair)
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency, the Minister of National Education and Scientific Research of Benin. I would  now like to give the floor to the next speaker, His Excellency Mr Charles Etoundi, Minister of State for National  Education of Cameroon. Sir, you have the floor.
23.1 M. ETOUNDI (Cameroun) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d'abord d'adresser mes très vives et sincères félicitations à  Mme Moserova pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de la 30e session de la Conférence générale de notre  Organisation. Assurément, sa sagesse et ses éminentes qualités lui permettront de mener avec succès les travaux  de cette session. Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, je voudrais m'associer à tous ceux qui m'ont précédé  pour vous féliciter de votre élection au Conseil exécutif et vous dire combien j'apprécie le rôle que vous-même et  les autres membres du Conseil avez joué dans la préparation et l'aboutissement des travaux de celui-ci.  Permettez-moi également de rendre un hommage appuyé au Directeur général sortant, M. Federico Mayor, pour  l'action menée à la tête de l'Organisation pendant 12 ans. Sous sa direction dynamique et éclairée, l'Organisation  a pu conforter son rôle éthique et intellectuel dans le monde. Je voudrais enfin féliciter très chaleureusement le  Conseil exécutif pour le choix qu'il a fait en désignant M. Matsuura comme candidat au poste de directeur  général de l'Organisation. Je ne doute pas un seul instant que la Conférence générale confirmera les résultats de  cette désignation. Le Cameroun, par ma voix, tient à assurer le nouveau Directeur général de son soutien dans ses  fonctions à la tête du Secrétariat.
23.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, alors que nous nous acheminons vers la fin du siècle et que nous abordons le  troisième millénaire, le moment semble indiqué pour esquisser un bilan des activités de notre Organisation et  entrevoir avec elle le futur. En effet, les efforts que déploie l'UNESCO pour tâcher de faire du monde un havre  de paix et de bien-être n'ont pas dissipé les inquiétudes que suscitent la pauvreté, l'analphabétisme, le sous-  développement et les conflits de tous genres. Cependant, a la lumière des efforts entrepris, il est permis d'espérer  en un avenir plus serein, marqué par l'élimination progressive de la pauvreté, l'accès à la connaissance pour tous,  un monde de tolérance, de paix et de solidarité où les valeurs éthiques et morales soient partagées par tous. C'est  le lieu ici de reconnaître le rôle que joue l'UNESCO comme conscience morale et intellectuelle, elle qui a été la  première Organisation à lancer le concept de culture de la paix. Nous nous réjouissons à cet égard de la  proclamation de l'an 2000 comme Année internationale de la culture de la paix.
23.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, l'une des tâches principales de l'UNESCO est l'éducation. Elle est à notre sens la  base même de son action. C'est pourquoi le Cameroun a toujours oeuvré dans le sens de l'application des  recommandations de la Conférence de Jomtien qui coïncident avec les objectifs de la Décennie de l'OUA pour  l'éducation en Afrique. C'est dire toute l'importance que nous attachons à ce domaine. Nous nous réjouissons  également de la tenue sous l'égide de l'UNESCO des rencontres internationales suivantes : Conférence mondiale  sur l'enseignement supérieur (octobre 1998) ; Congrès mondial sur l'enseignement technique et professionnel  (Séoul, avril 1999) ; Conférence mondiale sur la science (Budapest, Hongrie, 30 juin au 5 juillet 1999),  conférence qui a mis l'accent sur l'accès à la connaissance scientifique. Il nous semble d'ailleurs que l'UNESCO  se trouve dans une position idéale pour la réflexion mondiale sur la portée, l'étendue et l'application des droits de  propriété intellectuelle, s'agissant de la production, de la distribution et de l'utilisation équitable de la  connaissance.
23.4 L'UNESCO a également tenu à Stockholm la Conférence mondiale sur les politiques culturelles. À cet  égard, nous avons lu avec beaucoup d'intérêt le Rapport mondial sur la culture et notre souhait est que l'identité  culturelle et le dialogue interculturel, deux concepts qui, à notre avis, se complètent, soient une réalité vivante  dans le monde d'aujourd'hui et permettent d'extirper les racines des guerres.
23.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, les recommandations et plans d'action adoptés lors de toutes ces assises  reflètent les objectifs et les missions de l'UNESCO, attestent son rôle éthique, sa capacité d'anticipation et de  réflexion prospective et soulignent la nécessité de renforcer la coopération avec les Etats membres ainsi qu'au  sein même du système des Nations Unies.
23.6 Dans le même ordre d'idée, l'Organisation a élaboré des instruments et mis sur pied des structures pour  consolider l'équité et l'égalité de tous : Déclaration sur la protection du génome humain, Déclaration sur les  responsabilités des générations présentes envers les générations futures, Commission mondiale d'éthique des  connaissances scientifiques et des technologies, Comité de bioéthique. Bien plus, elle oeuvre chaque jour pour  accorder une place de choix aux groupes prioritaires tels les jeunes, qui tiennent un forum en marge de cette  Conférence, les femmes, l'Afrique, le Pacifique, etc. Parlant de groupes prioritaires, le Cameroun est pour le  maintien de l'Afrique comme priorité à l'UNESCO et souhaite que cette priorité pénètre tous ses programmes. Il  y a lieu de se féliciter du projet de créer un compte spécial Priorité Afrique qui permettra à coup sûr de mieux  faire face aux nombreux besoins de ce continent et d'agir en vue de l'amélioration du bien-être de ses populations.  Nous sommes également pour le renforcement du Programme solaire mondial, convaincus que c'est le cadre par  excellence de la revalorisation des sources d'énergie renouvelables.
23.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons noté avec satisfaction les progrès réalisés dans la présentation du  document 30 C/5 sur le plan de la clarté, de la lisibilité et de la transparence. Nous notons également l'évolution  vers une programmation/budgétisation/suivi orientée vers des résultats. Il faut seulement souhaiter une meilleure  efficacité dans la mise en oeuvre des programmes, gage à notre avis de l'instauration d'une véritable culture de  l'évaluation.
23.8 A propos des scénarios budgétaires, deux options nous ont été présentées, l'option de croissance  nominale zéro dite "scénario A" et l'option de croissance réelle zéro dite "scénario B". Dans les deux hypothèses  on remarque que le budget connaîtra au mieux une stagnation. Ce qui nous permet de constater encore une fois  que les pays nantis s'en tiennent toujours à des notions de rentabilité mécanique, même dans des organisations  comme l'UNESCO, pourtant reconnue garante de l'éthique. Nous appelons à plus d'altruisme de la part des Etats  membres. Malgré tout, mon pays est pour le scénario budgétaire A, grâce auquel, à ses yeux, l'Organisation  devrait pouvoir mieux gérer les ressources disponibles et établir des priorités dans ses programmes.
23.9 — Monsieur le Président, mon pays est d'avis que l'UNESCO du troisième millénaire doit consolider les  acquis et renforcer le requis. La consolidation des acquis passe par le respect de l'Acte constitutif et  l'accomplissement des missions qui relèvent de ses domaines de compétence. Quant au requis, il est important  que l'Organisation se fasse mieux connaître et soit plus opérationnelle. Cela suppose d'abord une meilleure  visibilité de sa part dans les Etats membres et vis-à-vis des autres institutions du système. L'UNESCO dispose de  moyens matériels et humains pour consolider sa présence et faire davantage connaître ses activités. Elle n'a  besoin que d'une stratégie : celle destinée à l'usage externe. Ce qui suppose au préalable une préparation en  concertation avec les Etats membres par l'intermédiaire des commissions nationales. L'UNESCO a également  besoin de mieux se faire connaître auprès des autres organisations du système des Nations Unies avec lesquelles  elle devrait coopérer pour le plus grand bien de l'humanité.
23.10 L'un des axes importants de l'Organisation du troisième millénaire sera la décentralisation. L'opinion de  mon pays est que la décentralisation et en soi l'un des moyens les plus efficaces d'exécuter le programme et  budget de l'UNESCO en association étroite avec les Etats membres et leurs commissions nationales. Les bureaux  régionaux devraient donc avoir pour première mission le renforcement des capacités et du rôle des commissions  nationales. De même, il faut des principes et des critères pour une mise en oeuvre rationnelle de la  décentralisation. L'impact et les résultats gagneront en transparence administrative ; la visibilité et l'image de  l'UNESCO s'en trouveront améliorées tant au niveau régional qu'au niveau universel. C'est à ce prix et à ce prix  seulement que l'UNESCO jouera plus efficacement - et c'est notre voeu le plus cher - son rôle de conscience  morale, intellectuelle et éthique. Je vous remercie de votre bienveillante attention.
24. The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency Mr Charles Etoundi, Minister of State for National Education of Cameroon. The  next speaker on my list is His Excellency Mr Etzer Charles, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Haiti to  UNESCO. Dear colleague, you have the floor.
25.1 M. CHARLES (Haïti) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres, honorables ambassadeurs et délégués, je voudrais tout d'abord vous faire  part des regrets du Ministre de l'éducation d'Haïti qui n'a pu être présent à cette 30e session de la Conférence  générale. Aussi m'a-t-il fait l'honneur de me charger de vous lire son allocution.
25.2 Alors que s'achève le deuxième millénaire, l'UNESCO compte 54 ans d'existence et cette 30e session de  la Conférence générale prépare en quelque sorte son entrée dans le XXIe siècle. Depuis sa naissance, elle n'a  cessé, dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science, d'oeuvrer, au fil des ans, des mois et des  jours en faveur de la paix et d'un monde meilleur pour tous les hommes. Le temps nous manquerait s'il fallait  énumérer les mille et un champs d'action de l'Organisation. Outre les multiples programmes de coopération  actuellement menés sur tous les continents, nombreux sont en effet les moments de réflexion où, s'érigeant en  conscience institutionnelle de l'humanité, elle tente d'apporter des réponses aux grands problèmes du temps  présent et aux interrogations que soulève l'avenir. La Conférence de Jomtien, le Sommet solaire mondial, la  Conférence mondiale sur la science sont, parmi d'autres, autant de balises pour aujourd'hui et demain, autant de  gestes d'ensemencement pour un destin plus prometteur.
25.3 A la lumière de tout cela, et face aux guerres, aux tensions et aux déchirures diverses qui continuent  d'assombrir l'existence de maintes sociétés, et donc de maintenir la paix prisonnière du rêve, une question se  pose : quel champ d'action prioritaire pour l'UNESCO du XXIe siècle ? S'il faut élever les défenses de la paix  dans l'esprit des hommes pour un humanisme à la mesure d'un bien-être universel, ce champ d'action est et  demeure l'éducation. Une éducation plurielle où seraient représentées les différentes sphères de la vie sociale.  Cette logique devrait trouver sa juste place dans la politique générale de tout Etat. Tel est le cas en Haïti.
25.4 Fort de cette logique, le gouvernement de Haïti considère l'éducation comme l'une de ses grandes  priorités, pour ne pas dire sa priorité absolue. En effet, depuis deux ans environ, un plan national d'éducation et  de formation procédant d'une nouvelle vision de la fonction du système scolaire au sein de la société haïtienne  prône une école accessible à tous. Aux fins de sa mise en oeuvre, le Ministère de l'éducation entend exercer son  rôle de garant de la démocratisation et de la qualité de l'éducation à tous les niveaux, tant dans le secteur public  que dans le secteur privé. Ce plan, dans ses grandes orientations, témoigne de la volonté du gouvernement  d'arracher le secteur de l'éducation à son état d'urgence afin qu'il serve d'assise à la modernisation de notre  société. Si, dans la foulée de Jomtien, Haïti s'est donné pour priorité l'éducation de base et l'éradication de  l'analphabétisme, le plan national élaboré en 1997 définit la stratégie pour y parvenir, tout en s'attaquant aux  maux chroniques du système éducatif.
25.5 C'est ainsi que, tout en visant la scolarisation à l'horizon 2010 de tous les jeunes âgés de 6 à 11 ans, dont  seulement 65 % ont actuellement accès à l'école, le gouvernement a engagé cette réforme du système éducatif  selon quatre axes d'intervention : amélioration de la qualité de l'éducation, accroissement de l'offre scolaire,  amélioration de la gouvernance et renforcement de l'efficacité externe. Dans cette perspective, le Ministère de  l'éducation, appuyé par des bailleurs de fonds internationaux, a entrepris depuis deux ans un certain nombre  d'actions - construction de nouvelles écoles, remise en état d'écoles existantes - tout en apportant, en ce sens, son  appui au secteur non public dans le cadre d'un programme de partenariat. Il a aussi mis sur pied des programmes  de distribution d'uniformes scolaires, de matériels et de fournitures pédagogiques, de même qu'un programme de  santé-nutrition scolaire.
25.6 Une stratégie d'amélioration de la qualité de l'éducation serait incomplète si elle ne procédait pas à une  réforme des programmes d'enseignement visant à la fois la modernisation des contenus de la formation et  l'éducation des jeunes Haïtiens à la citoyenneté. Outre qu'elle contribue à la consolidation des institutions  démocratiques, cette culture du civisme permettra à ces jeunes de s'ouvrir davantage aux valeurs universelles de  tolérance et de compréhension mutuelle, dans la perspective de cette culture de la paix à laquelle la République  d'Haïti adhère pleinement, comme en témoigne notamment son soutien à la Déclaration sur le droit de l'être  humain à la paix. Dans ce même souci d'améliorer la qualité de l'éducation, les institutions de formation  pédagogiques voient leur mission redéfinie. Leur transformation est déjà en cours.
25.7 Le renforcement de l'efficacité externe du système vise à assurer l'insertion des jeunes sur le marché du  travail, et à faire en sorte que le système scolaire produise les compétences nécessaires au développement  économique de notre pays. À cet effet il a été prévu de réorganiser l'enseignement secondaire. Parallèlement à la  filière classique de l'enseignement général, elle-même repensée à la lumière de l'évolution du monde actuel, trois  nouvelles filières de formation vont voir le jour : une filière scientifique et technologique, une filière artistique et  une filière professionnelle et technique. De plus, un projet de restructuration complète de l'enseignement  professionnel orientant la formation en fonction de la demande a été élaboré. Quant à l'enseignement supérieur,  sa modernisation appelle deux types d'action. D'abord, la prise en compte, dans la réforme de l'université, de la  culture scientifique et technologique dont l'appropriation est indispensable à la maîtrise des paramètres de son  développement. Ensuite, la création d'une nouvelle catégorie d'établissements, les centres d'enseignement  supérieur technologique qui offriront des possibilités de formation plus souples que les universités.
25.8 La coordination de ces différents programmes et projets de réforme exige assurément des capacités  d'orientation, d'intervention et de prise de décisions pertinentes et efficaces. Le quatrième axe du plan national
13   consiste donc à améliorer les méthodes de gouvernance et de gestion du Ministère de l'éducation nationale. A  cette fin a été élaboré, avec le concours du PNUD et de l'UNESCO, un projet majeur de renforcement  institutionnel dont la mise en oeuvre débutera ce mois-ci.
25.9 Si, jusqu'à présent, le gouvernement s'est montré à la hauteur de sa tâche en définissant les différents  aspects de la réforme de notre système éducatif, la pénurie grave de personnel qualifié dans les différents  domaines de l'éducation menace de vouer ses efforts à l'échec. Il a été récemment procédé à l'inventaire des  ressources humaines nécessaires pour faire aboutir la réforme de l'éducation. Il est ainsi apparu que, pour  atteindre l'objectif consistant à scolariser tous les jeunes âgés de 6 à 11 ans, il faudrait qu'un impressionnant  contingent de 10.200 enseignants vienne grossir les rangs de ceux qui sont déjà à l'oeuvre dans l'ensemble du  système éducatif. Il en va de même des centres d'enseignement supérieur technologique qui mobiliseront en
2003-2004 près de 542 professeurs. Face à cette situation alarmante, permettez-moi de lancer, au nom de la  République d'Haïti, un appel à nos amis au sein de la communauté internationale afin qu'ils contribuent à la mise  en oeuvre de cette réforme, et de demander dans le même temps à l'Organisation de renforcer sa coopération avec  notre pays dans le domaine de l'éducation. Tel est le sens du projet de résolution présenté par Haïti, soutenu par  de nombreux Etats membres et favorablement accueilli par la Commission I. C'est pour moi l'occasion de  remercier tous ceux qui, par ce soutien, ont témoigné leur solidarité avec le peuple haïtien.
25.10 Nous voudrions remercier également l'UNESCO pour l'aide qu'elle est disposée à apporter au projet  d'Institut des langues et des cultures de la Caraïbe, centre d'excellence des dialogues multilangues. Cet institut se  mettra au service des pays des Caraïbes en vue de contribuer à leur intégration. Je saisis cette occasion pour  rendre hommage à l'Organisation pour la manière dont elle s'est investie dans des projets tels que "La Route de  l'esclave” ou le "Musée de la traite et de l'esclavage" qui revêtent la plus haute importance aux yeux du  gouvernement de la République et de tous les Haïtiens. À quatre ans du ler janvier 2004, date à laquelle sera  commémoré le bicentenaire de l'indépendance nationale, ce sont là de précieuses contributions à la mise en  évidence de la trajectoire par laquelle s'est constituée l'identité de notre peuple et sur laquelle nous construirons  une nation moderne au XXIe siècle.
25.11 Ce long regard sur le système éducatif haïtien nous a permis de mesurer les efforts considérables que  déploie le gouvernement en la matière. Aujourd'hui, au seuil du XXIe siècle et au-delà, l'éducation demeure et  demeurera une priorité centrale dans l'action de l'UNESCO - une priorité qui, bien entendu, ne diminue en rien ce  que doit être le rôle de l'Organisation dans d'autres domaines et dans tous les grands débats qui agitent notre  temps. C'est dire qu'il n'y a pas lieu de redéfinir les objectifs de l'UNESCO pour le siècle prochain. Ces objectifs  se trouvent déjà inscrits dans l'Acte constitutif. Il faut, en revanche, donner davantage de moyens à l'Organisation  pour qu'elle puisse répondre aux demandes croissantes des peuples assoiffés de ses idéaux ou de ses bienfaits. À  cet égard, il convient d'engager à l'échelle du système des Nations Unies une véritable réflexion en vue de  renforcer le partenariat entre l'UNESCO et les principales institutions financières internationales et agences  d'aide au développement. Ce renforcement des moyens d'action de l'Organisation devient des plus urgents si l'on  veut que les fragiles barrières de la paix élevées jusqu'ici dans l'esprit des hommes se consolident jusqu'à  l'élimination complète des maux dont continue de souffrir l'humanité.
25.12 Enfin, nous tenons à rendre hommage à M. Federico Mayor, qui s'est toujours montré profondément  attentif à la situation difficile de cette parcelle de l'humanité qu'est le peuple haïtien. Je vous remercie.
26. The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency, the Ambassador of Haiti to UNESCO. The next speaker on my list is Her  Excellency Ms Ntsinyi, Permanent Delegate of Lesotho. Madam, you have the floor.
27.1 Ms NTSINYI (Lesotho):  Mr President, please allow me to read this statement on behalf of the Honourable Lesao Lehohla,  Minister of Education of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
27.2 Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable ministers,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Lesotho’s delegation joins the other delegates in  congratulating Ms Moserova on being elected to preside over the deliberations of the 30th session of the General  Conference of UNESCO. She has acquitted herself honourably in the discharge of the duties entrusted to her.  May we also take this opportunity to convey to the session congratulations and best wishes from His Majesty the  King, the Right Honourable Prime Minister and the people of the Kingdom of Lesotho. It is our great honour,  pleasure and privilege to belong to this great family of nations that are members of UNESCO, an organization  which we believe will lead us all into a better more peaceful twenty-first century.
27.3 Mr President, in the past year Lesotho has experienced a series of troubles and challenges to its  democratic process, sparked by opposition parties’ protests following the May 1998 general elections in the  country, elections which the majority of the Basotho people, together with several international observers,  including those from the United Nations, the Commonwealth, the European Union, the Organization of African  Unity, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and a variety of non-governmental organizations  had witnessed and declared free and fair and a true reflection of the real wish of the people. The riots which  followed, however, shook the very soul of the nation, gutted the towns of Maseru, the capital, Mohale’s Hoek and  Mafeteng, and left many people of Lesotho confused, frightened and without any means of livelihood.
27.4 For the reasons mentioned above, Lesotho would like to take this opportunity to express her deep  gratitude to the international community for the unhesitating solidarity it accorded her in support of democracy.  Our deepest gratitude goes to our colleagues and neighbours in the Southern African Development Community  region who had the political and moral courage to come to the rescue of democratic principles in which they and  the many people of Southern Africa believe. It is indeed very heartening to realize that leaders and governments  in that region are prepared to pay a lot more in defence of democracy. As a result of their timely intervention,  Lesotho is once more on course in her efforts to promote democracy. Subsequent to the intervention, an Interim  Political Authority was set up at the initiative of SADC, in which all political parties which contested the May
1998 elections are represented. The objective of the Authority is to level the ground in preparation for a fresh  election in the year 2000. The political parties and the Government of Lesotho have agreed to settle their  differences through negotiations, and a new model of voting has been agreed upon, which is a mixture of the  “first-past-the-post” and “proportional representation” systems. Another election will be held in the year 2000  which we hope will bring back lasting peace and stability to our country.
27.5 Mr President, in the light of our recent experiences as outlined above, Lesotho welcomes and commits  itself to the United Nations declaration of the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace. One  does not need to be a genius to realize that peace has become a very rare commodity in the world today, and that  we all need to recommit ourselves to peace in order to make the world a better, more human life-friendly place in  the new millennium. Recent troubles in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kosovo and East Timor, to name  but a few countries, are a true testimony to this fact.
27.6 Mr President, Lesotho faces many serious challenges in the coming new era - challenges of fighting  poverty and starvation, creating jobs for the people of Lesotho, especially youth, and empowering rural women,  many of whom are heads of households who receive neither recognition nor training for this important role they  play in the development of their beloved country. All these challenges can only be adequately met if there is  peace on the ground, because no sustainable economic development is possible without lasting peace and  democracy.
27.7 Mr President, another important commitment Lesotho has decided to embark on in the year 2000 is that  of introducing free primary education for the children of the country. You will perhaps all agree with us that this  is one decision that should have been taken a long time ago, but it is also an undeniable fact that an exercise of  this magnitude does depend on several crucial factors including the economic status of a country. Lesotho is  convinced that education is a basic need and a right of every child, and therefore deems it unacceptable that a  child’s access to basic education should depend on his or her parents’ wealth or lack thereof. It is therefore  incumbent on governments, even in developing countries such as ours, to make at least primary education easily  accessible to all children. We will all recall that leaders of the world and their partners in education met at  Jomtien in Thailand in 1990, and made a commitment to endeavour to make basic education accessible to all  children of school-going age by the year 2000. We have no doubt that Lesotho will meet her commitment with  the support of all her partners in development.
27.8 Mr President, communities throughout the world are poised rather anxiously to enter the new  millennium. It is our firm belief that, through science, technology, culture and ethics our world will stride safely  into the twenty-first century. In particular, that entry into the new era will be a relatively safe one for the  developing countries of the world. As we all know, talk of being Y2K-compliant is rife in international, regional  and national forums. However, such compliance depends, to a large measure, on close cooperation at all levels as  well as willingness to commit adequate resources. Otherwise, the millennium bug will infest us, with devastating  consequences. For her own part, Lesotho is doing what she can to ensure compliance so that in communication,  transport, health, water, banking and other crucial areas of human existence we do not become trapped in  otherwise avoidable problems. As UNESCO is one of the organizations spearheading research and development  in the fields of science and communication, we have reason to be confident that our future in the new millennium  will be safe under the Organization’s auspices and guidance.
27.9 Mr President, at this point I would like to wish Mr Federico Mayor, the out-going Director-General of  UNESCO, well as he successfully completes his final term as Executive Head of the Organization. The roots of  friendship, warm relations and healthy partnerships in development which started decades ago between UNESCO  and Lesotho deepened during his term of office. The people of Lesotho still remember with enthusiasm his visit  to the Kingdom in January 1997, which culminated in a visit to the top of Thaba-Bosiu, the national historic  monument of the Basotho, where he laid a wreath at the grave of our late King Moshoeshoe II as a symbol of  remembrance and tribute to him. Activities initiated as a result of the aide-mémoire signed between UNESCO  and Lesotho on the occasion of that visit are highly appreciated. It is also our sincere belief that the outstanding  items of that agreement will be seen to completion in due course; such items include the following: the  establishment of a UNESCO Chair in water management at the National University of Lesotho and the  scholarships for Lesotho students in the SADC region. Allow me, Mr President, to congratulate the Executive  Board on the nomination of Mr Matsuura as the new Director-General and hope that this nomination will be  unanimously endorsed by the General Conference. We look forward to the same support we enjoyed in the past  years under the stewardship of Professor Federico Mayor.
27.10 Mr President, allow me to comment that Lesotho supports the new-style, user-friendly, result-oriented  C/5 document. We have also identified many areas in it which are in keeping with the needs of Lesotho. For  instance, in the area of arts and crafts Lesotho needs assistance to establish craft centres in the rural areas. Such  centres would provide and create jobs for rural women and men and therefore alleviate poverty. The centres  would focus on promotion of high-quality and environmentally friendly crafts. In the long term there would be a  multiplier effect as the skills provided are traditionally passed on from older to younger generations.
27.11 Mr President, my last comment concerns field offices in our region. While Lesotho welcomes the  presence of UNESCO fields offices in southern Africa, we strongly believe that their mandate must be clearly  defined and made clear to both parties concerned, namely the Member States and the field officers. We feel that  the role of the field officers would be greatly enhanced if they worked closely with the local authorities, including  National Commissions. Whatever activities the field officers carry out should be in the interests of the local  people, because the Member States will, after all have to live with the consequences of the activities carried out  by the field officers. There should also be a mechanism to monitor their activities.
27.12 In conclusion, Mr President, we wish to refer to the report of the Executive Board on the activities  during the past biennium. In particular, we noted with great interest the reforms that have been introduced and  will continue in the next biennium. We hope that these reforms will not only have an effect here at Headquarters  but that they will further impact on the activities of the Organization at the grassroots level in Member States.  Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your precious time and attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Her Excellency the Permanent Delegate of Lesotho to UNESCO, and I now give the floor to  Mr Louis Van Beneden, President of the World Confederation of Teachers.
29.1 M. VAN BENEDEN (Confédération syndicale mondiale de l'enseignement) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord de féliciter  Mme Moserovâ qui a été élue à la présidence de cette assemblée et de remercier M. Federico Mayor qui a si bien  défendu les valeurs et les intérêts de cette Organisation. Mesdames et Messieurs, 2000 : année de la culture de la  paix. Eduquer pour la paix, c'est d'abord éduquer pour vivre ensemble, pour respecter l'autre, pour accepter le  principe du pluralisme dans son sens le plus profond de tolérance et de respect de la diversité. Non pas de la  diversité qui construit des murs mais de celle qui enrichit et suscite la créativité. Cela est vrai pour tous les  groupes sociaux, y compris les organisations. Il est du devoir de l'UNESCO, dans l'optique des conclusions du  Rapport de la Commission mondiale de la culture et du développement, d'encourager l'application du principe du  pluralisme tant dans son fonctionnement interne que dans ses relations avec ses partenaires.
29.2 La CSME constate avec satisfaction que l'UNESCO a intensifié, au cours de la décennie écoulée, sa  réflexion et son action dans de nombreux domaines de l'éducation et qu'elle envisage de réaliser une évaluation  du programme qui a trait à l'éducation pour tous à Dakar l'année prochaine et de lancer une vaste réflexion sur  l'enseignement secondaire. La CSME félicite l'UNESCO de ces initiatives et continue de s'inscrire comme  partenaire actif dans tous les programmes de l'UNESCO et en particulier dans ceux relatifs à l'éducation.
29.3 Compte tenu de son dernier congrès mondial dont le thème était "Le rôle des enseignants dans  l'éducation du XXIe siècle”, la CSME désire demander qu'une attention particulière soit accordée a la situation  des enseignants dans l'éducation, et plus précisément à deux aspects qui touchent directement les enseignants et  qui sont d'une importance vitale pour la qualité de l'éducation : la formation et les conditions de vie et de travail  des enseignants.
294 En ce qui concerne la formation des enseignants, il convient de distinguer entre la formation initiale et la  formation continue tout en les considérant comme un ensemble. Il est en effet urgent que l'apprentissage à vie des  enseignants soit considéré dans une perspective cohérente et comme une priorité absolue.
29.5 Il est indispensable de mieux articuler les besoins de la formation initiale et les exigences d'une  performance professionnelle novatrice et de faire une plus large place à l'orientation sociale, culturelle et  politique ainsi qu'au cadre de référence du système éducatif dans la formation initiale et dans l'éducation  permanente des enseignants. La maîtrise des connaissances que l'enseignement doit transmettre doit être liée à la  maîtrise des méthodes d'enseignement et d'apprentissage desdites connaissances ainsi qu'à l'ensemble des  stratégies pédagogiques et psychologiques. En outre, il convient d'accroître le rôle de la pratique de  l'enseignement dans la formation initiale, par des systèmes favorisant l'observation, la discussion et la  participation, pour permettre aux futurs enseignants d'acquérir une connaissance concrète des problèmes de  démotivation, voire de refus d'apprendre, des écoliers et des moyens pédagogiques, disciplinaires et sociaux d'y  remédier. Des liens étroits avec les établissements scolaires environnants doivent être établis en vue d'encadrer  les stages et d'organiser des exercices pratiques à l'intention des futurs enseignants dans ces mêmes  établissements. La formation en cours d'emploi quant à elle doit être considérée comme un droit mais également  comme un devoir de tout le personnel enseignant.
29.6 Les nouvelles approches en matière de gestion qui confèrent davantage d'autonomie et une  responsabilité accrue aux établissements scolaires demandent une plus grande participation des enseignants, les  premiers acteurs concernés, au processus de transformation de l'éducation. Pour être vraiment efficaces, les  initiatives visant à accroître l'autonomie des établissements scolaires ne doivent servir ni de prétexte pour  déresponsabiliser les autorités politiques, ni de camouflage pour une politique de restrictions budgétaires des  autorités politiques chargées de l'éducation, sous peine de donner un bien mauvais exemple d'insouciance  publique concernant le rôle et l'importance accrue de l'enseignement.
29.7 Le dernier rapport (1998) du CEART est clair. Le statut des enseignants se délabre au lieu de  s'améliorer. Pour remédier à cette situation, il propose une stratégie consistant à introduire un certain nombre  d'améliorations dans la formation initiale et continue, les conditions d'emploi et de travail et la motivation des  enseignants, grâce à une professionnalisation accrue.
29.8 L'éducation est un secteur d'activité basé sur l'utilisation intensive de main-d'oeuvre. Eduquer est et  restera toujours, malgré l'introduction des nouvelles technologies, un acte de personne à personne. Dans l'acte  d'enseigner et d'éduquer, l'enseignant restera toujours l'acteur principal. La qualité de l'éducation, du moins une  qualité mesurée en termes d'efficacité par rapport à la finalité sociétale de cette éducation et non pas en termes  d'efficience économique, dépend essentiellement de la qualité des enseignants, de leur motivation, de leur niveau  professionnel.
29.9 Vouloir tracer les contours de l'éducation du XXIe siècle sans prendre en compte la formation et les  conditions de vie et de travail des enseignants, c'est hypothéquer lourdement l'éducation et l'avenir des jeunes.  C'est pourquoi, la CSME félicite l'UNESCO d'accorder, dans son grand programme I pour la période 2000-2001,  mentionné dans le 30 C/5, une attention particulière à la formation et aux conditions de vie et de travail des  enseignants. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
30. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr Van Beneden, President of the World Confederation of Teachers, and I now invite Mr Daniel  Monteux, representative of the World Federation of Teachers’ Unions, to take the floor.
31.1 M. MONTEUX (Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement (FISE)) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, mon  intervention au nom de la Fédération internationale syndicale de l'enseignement - qui certes n'est pas la plus  grande des ONG représentatives de la profession enseignante et universitaire, mais qui n'est pas la moins active  sur le terrain - s'articulera autour de quatre mots clés : soutien, attentes, inquiétude, mobilisation.
31.2 Le soutien constant et indéfectible qu'apporte notre fédération à l'action de l'UNESCO s'exprime à la  fois dans notre coopération à la mise en oeuvre de ses programmes et dans notre adhésion profonde à ses  principes. Dans les nombreuses réunions régionales ou nationales que nous animons, nous pouvons vérifier,  notamment en Amérique latine, en Afrique, en Asie c'est-à-dire là où la FISE est la mieux représentée, que les  principes de l'UNESCO sont une référence, un guide d'éthique professionnelle pour des centaines de milliers de  nos collègues. C'est pourquoi nos n'hésiterons pas à nous mobiliser pour que l'UNESCO et le système des  Nations Unies aient au siècle prochain un avenir reconnu et assuré.
31.3 Je veux ici redire notre profonde gratitude à M. Federico Mayor pour l'impulsion qu'il a su donner à  l'Organisation et pour ses contributions particulièrement stimulantes par leur humanisme et leur engagement  citoyen au débat et à l'action en faveur d'un avenir humain juste et solidaire.
31.4 Nous avons également des attentes car le soutien qu'apportent nos collègues à l'UNESCO se veut le plus  interactif possible. Du reste, nous travaillons dans notre domaine d'activité associatif et syndical à l'émergence  d'une nouvelle culture de dialogue, de mise en réseau et d'initiatives citoyennes, et nos propres structures sont de  plus en plus régionalisées et décentralisées. Nous avons pris une part active à l'élaboration et à l'adoption par la  précédente session de la Conférence générale de la Recommandation concernant la condition du personnel  enseignant de l'enseignement supérieur. Nous en appelons aux Etats, puisqu'ils l'ont votée, pour que tous la  mettent en oeuvre et qu'elle inspire leur action, notamment en ce qui concerne les droits et les devoirs des  personnels et des autorités dans le cadre d'une université autonome de service public. Il en va de même des autres  textes pertinents relatifs à la condition des personnels enseignants et aux problèmes de l'enseignement. Nous  avons beaucoup contribué l'an dernier à la forte participation des ONG à la Conférence mondiale sur  l'enseignement supérieur, dont nous soutenons la déclaration finale et le cadre d'action.
31.5 Il nous paraît urgent que soit organisé un suivi méthodique de cette conférence auquel seraient  largement associées les ONG de ce secteur, et nous souhaitons, compte tenu de notre expérience et de nos  compétences, occuper pleinement notre place. De même nous voulons concourir à une mobilisation massive et  créatrice de nos collègues, de leurs étudiants et de leurs élèves pour que la célébration en l'an 2000 de l'Année  internationale de la culture de la paix donne lieu à des initiatives vigoureuses et influence durablement les  consciences et les actes publics et privés.
316 Nos collègues ressentent également certaines inquiétudes, qu'ils partagent de plus en plus largement  avec de nombreux membres de la société civile - les intellectuels, les différents acteurs du monde du travail - face  aux dangers d'une mondialisation qui serait exclusivement conçue comme financière et à la perspective d'une  déréglementation totale du commerce mondial qui nous conduirait à une situation où tout - les individus, leurs  oeuvres, l'éducation, la recherche, la santé, l'information - serait considéré comme une marchandise, enjeu d'une  concurrence débridée. Nous demandons aux Etats de résister aux pressions qui s'exercent sur eux en ce sens afin  de promouvoir au contraire, en s'appuyant sur les peuples et leurs besoins, des réponses neuves aux exigences  d'un développement humain durable et solidaire.
31.7 Mobilisation enfin, car nous ne croyons pas, quant à nous, que l'avenir doive fatalement voir triompher  un modèle uniforme où l'humain serait réduit à l'économique, l'économique au financier et le financier au  spéculatif. Ni le monde, ni ses habitants, ni le savoir, ni l'éducation ne sont des marchandises. C'est pourquoi,  avec déjà plus de 1.500 organisations de plus de 100 pays, nous lançons un appel à la société civile internationale  pour une autre conception des échanges internationaux fondée sur la solidarité, la coopération, l'échange  équitable des biens, des services, de l'information, et la défense de la diversité culturelle, la libre circulation  planétaire des idées et des individus au service de l'épanouissement de chacun et du développement de tous. Il  nous semble indispensable que l'UNESCO pèse avec nous tous pour que sur ce terrain des décisions irréparables  ne soient pas inconsidérément prises le mois prochain à Seattle et qu'au contraire la régulation - nécessaire - des  échanges mondiaux soit dans tous les domaines subordonnée à la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme  et autres chartes internationales ainsi qu'aux conventions et recommandations internationales relatives aux enjeux  sociaux, sanitaires, éducatifs et environnementaux. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
32. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr Monteux of the World Federation of Teachers’ Unions for his intervention, and I invite His  Excellency Mr Said Mohamud Farah, Ambassador of Somalia to UNESCO, to take the floor.  seal Jae spd C31 ulaall ud sped) LT 050 Andy Bad) Jas pull apd)  Pe ¢ 95d dd pli grep vil SD 5490 © 4S, Lad 2994] hais sls 53 laudls Con lol cplall  Les iS! le pli posal dus, JLo gall dy y 5402 24 ply Co] Of Luo ld! RF) © Ns (re (Fle  Las Ls ps Jay p21 JI Bye last 5583 gs Ll oy Je sly CRI G5 ya) dus,  olan! las § 8,1 995 Mo sSuddl gil I whos JI ual of Lal ols vey  liabio oly Slo OS SIN Jal gol SJ Ua CiBgly pDldl Dla, cunyy BUI polally Toll oa  Sal Lo gly S553 ¢ Les Isa gs ol Gas 5 Hs 0999 voX>|3 ol ess Le pas 5°! da
3 3 sisal « 4 ps SI oo) willy sll boues ly pig el pr  ode Wy a goal! ins Os CS El Gl, LUI ously + io © CRY TS À el pwilly  seal pl JI Las oF JI dusk Gashlly 8 pets los gaoll IIS Va oll
329 Lol dae 3 la OI Upside Mai (Fle JE (dad J Jos pub JI Se TON  Sul © Beis of Lule pi WA cog pdally Sob oA 3 pol oi ll day 3 col 1a Ge 501  OA $ bazar Ulin 05S 13bes Sol 13a LL § LILI Go cLôlani Go god onl ble Sis;  Lal Jl cu Ge Jad] Sle JI «(Bg pall JI lily ool JI pod! JI alli IS mabally Sl
351 ob 9351 of Jd (IS wan Sb Dlpe JS Ua pS pal lysed mea Et) Dial Jb ens  le publL jf Vin LL § cgal (Jlgall § mag os wansly lin Ball pS pie ploi iby als]  Obs 538405 buen ss Or Se 551 NN ble 0S, ols, SN ONE pial UE Jalal co eu  GapÂal O01 cz By pall liad] 2g «Gon de OY) Lai Se snd Leda Gs SI BLU  bo cody dowd Golo Clad oo SSI (Ban Ny pe! ld ud el LY cf wanes Gus (lla  hidially goylally JIU pong ol go aT Gbls JI gf LEY JI pads Sede oo Ji Y  I Vy cells pan do wal Guys D Bel ally Gilly EH dpm Luly Laos  La Ge US Sa gnpdially lid! ll 331 3 hg! Cir à able Sas § li Jladl  Fall Sas bof Pll S53] of col bid OM ts fr de ested JI Isa of Nib] Ja al psyssi  Gnd] oly IAL Sole Flas clpetas Jl VMS Jleadly Cagills Bein Ji V Gad ol
3 RI pgly oly goplall JI JULY aly AJ Ball 03a dy Lowi ped Se (ing ps JS Js
21S slaw cpl JS oF Lal (pales of Gares phil 5 gma! Gal ai ALL de bala  wldes wdasy Loli 0s Pls eal cuss, G 501 oda Ol Lhd 8 5,08 (lad sf Lda  lay bles Jlag cris JY 03a of Loudo¥l LESS Ge boywls 585 0 prgbiy Lil] laid!
3 Osten polation pal 5108 Tay paal ole Slaw Jose] cond) call pe cl  id) ples Je 551 cata axle pl Slal le oa Jbogall à od 39 lis old oa, YI  FISIy gall pas 5 pas Asal as 5 Joga! andl Leurs 1 Lglalll Digi] 03a pales pit  Go 0 ply Gas SY Jpop of 5351 550 A maizall Ge albly (ILE sayy (pS,SH of CE  odf les EN  Lal Cg all Ge Gblo Bas 5 wnat 551 DY 5 (Fle Slag publ Saw TYE  Sl pial Jo Judy Yolo Lealsl cars Ball es cop OUI dibis à Lol> dually LES,  CAI poil ess od publ Bal paeailly sla diy pol3ll Sl Jo Jas SI lao)  aly pod! Jaidy Sls Jos lan le Banill pol VISS cLgygly Basil! wl¥yl LOS  oda lia] Clin guy Ua SU dela of Lagi Lis co pe ve, Plate Og cddhill oda gad  #| JS 13 ol Fall § Lens BS os gl 51201 3 Les i YS) asl lie JI Sans Joy all à yl
13   Jo wihsggae IS SOT of La cag SudliSos Jus) Laban Lai Ja ol Choy > oad kg ol]  yl Anoladlo IGAD Ayo LessSadl dg! Lull Jho LeadBYl oolebilly GRAIN Jolly lea!  SU Bola) tll wholdl Jo Lwsill Ayo gl ddan)! Dag! 5 (SL ES sate AIS CS SN wlabilly  pols Sy Un ul of pa Vins copl LS Joga! à LMI poll Lol Jal SL Le 030s  log! § plod sled] JI 61355 BAM Four Lisez ody Shr 508 Juslaul Gud Jl 8y0bs J]
3 doley pôls Due abd g SLA code 15 WG Ua gyal of 31 phd) Gall loyal Gaël ply
5 5loy Los pl Jol! paimall 5e 2113S Lits, LiBnol 5e ally Jlogeal  AJ Jlosall canddl 0b slaally laally Ll 80nd 02s Ge pil Bao Lal coud Jl sas YO  phd spies laggy allel) GI Bolg 555 55 lay Gbls Jay (uses) 138 Go zg, 3d1 Ge Jol sik  Sale) las Sd wing roy ols JS; lB) Leas als Dow wll] Ll 65s Lely  idyll LILI billy (Aways Lyd Dla Abid a GbUL olay pexilly Lily Gus!  Laiily sll) Looser À 40) GhULI 03a Suslas Joo) patmall Ge lbY Lo jill 03a 54s 55)
050 spaadl Jlagall sly Sole Y 5155 Las, pnoily 55591 GhUL 4 SOUS Vs puss =  le Oy oly hs O39 (Ow das di xd LS, Loli cles tag cel Bass SU
5 poll dsall mary Jol paimoll 50UT ODA BUT 51 pl Jains sy cA Lay) Ole]  lal 3 bly Spy «Lol, Sly LVI LA § i> Jloguadl Isis (SI Lino onl) 132 Lys À  ells Bll § log all
(33.1) Mr FARAH (Somalia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Your  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it gives me great pleasure to offer my  congratulations, on behalf of the delegation of Somalia, to the President of the Conference on her election. I am  confident that thanks to her experience and judgement, the work of the Conference will be crowned with success.
(33.2) I should also like to commend UNESCO’s accomplishments in its fields of competence - education,  science, culture and the mission of peace - since the last session of the Conference. Allow me to pause at this point  to offer my compliments to the man who headed this Organization for 12 years and worked tirelessly, with  dedication and sincerity, in pursuit of UNESCO’s objectives, including the elevation of human thought and the  laying of the foundations of peace. I refer to Mr Federico Mayor, who is also committed to the propagation of the  loftiest human ideals, such as freedom, democracy, human rights and support for a culture of peace on every  possible occasion. I should also like to take this opportunity of extending, on behalf of the peace-loving Somali  people, on behalf of the children of Somalia, who have been so terribly afflicted by the horrors of war, my  profound thanks to the Director-General and to UNESCO for providing education programmes, including  equipment, services, books and special training, in most regions of Somalia. I should like, once again, to express  my appreciation for the Director-General’s initiative in the field of the culture of peace in Somalia, the conferences  held in Sana’a and Addis Ababa, and the encounters between the representatives of civil society and political and  intellectual leaders in the various regions of Somalia, which were aimed at encouraging dialogue, promoting a  convergence of points of view, and giving impetus to the process of armistice and peace. These efforts are  continuing, but the road to the promised peace is long.
(33.3) Mr Representative of the President, ladies and gentlemen, this 30th session of the General Conference is  being held at a historic time, namely the end of this century. The next session will be held in the twenty-first  century. Consequently, it is incumbent upon us to pause briefly and ask ourselves where we stand with respect to  our objectives and hopes as the century draws to a close. What will be the future of us all in the coming century?  Naturally, all of us are looking forward to peace, security, stability, progress and advancement, and a better and  more prosperous life in justice and solidarity among the world’s peoples. I must tell you frankly that I hesitated for  some time before agreeing to take the floor to speak to you about the situation in my country, Somalia, at this point  in time. Naturally, despite the almost total lack of interest and absence of coverage by the media, I am quite sure  that all of you are aware of and have been following the appalling tragedy that has afflicted my people for nearly
10 years now, the final decade of the twentieth century, in the course of which a nameless, pointless civil war has  cut short over half a million lives and driven no fewer than 2 million people into exile abroad or into other regions  of the country. Homes, schools, hospitals, in fact entire cities have been destroyed, crops and villages burned, herds  of livestock killed in a baneful war that has swept away everything in its path. Factional killing is still going on in  many areas of southern Somalia. At the 29th session of the General Conference, I reminded you that there were  children who had not attended school for seven years. Now I would simply like to take advantage of this forum to
468   remind the world that the war, with its pillage, destruction and slaughter, is still going on. The Somali people have  been enduring this torment for nine years now, and during the whole of that time, children have not been going to  school, students have not been attending university; an entire generation has lost its natural right to education. You  must know that all wars, civil or otherwise, are inherently evil. This particular war has been characterized by  atrocities and crimes against humanity. Women have been raped, entire cities and villages have been systematically  emptied of their original inhabitants. The numbers of the victims have mounted into the hundreds of thousands.  Needless to say, these crimes have been committed by specific criminals. There are persons who are responsible for  what has happened, and I should like to associate myself with those who have asked the United Nations and the  international community to establish an international tribunal for war crimes in Somalia, to conduct investigations  and determine responsibility. The Somali people, ladies and gentlemen, is being held hostage by warlords and their  militias who are wreaking havoc in the land. This is the situation in Somalia as we stand at the gateway to the  twenty-first century. I have no doubt that you are all well aware of this tragedy afflicting the Somali people in the  age of globalization, but I wished to speak out to ask the international community, once again, to take action to  rescue an entire people from the talons of the merchants of death.
(33.4) In recent times, civil, racial and regional wars have broken out in many parts of the world, especially the  Balkan region. Fortunately, most of them have been settled as a result of positive action on the part of the  international community, which has worked to put a stop to the bloodshed and ethnic cleansing. Naturally, I hail  and congratulate the international community, most notably the United States, Europe and the United Nations, for  these humanitarian efforts; I hope that the peoples of the regions concerned will henceforth be able to live in peace  and stability. But may we not reasonably ask, ladies and gentlemen, why in one particular region and not in  another? Is the war in Somalia really so far away as all that? Is that why the media do not tell us about it, and why  we do not read of its atrocities in our newspapers? Or is it not a crime for a person to kill his brother? Or is this a  case of a double standard? At this point I must express my appreciation for the efforts that have been made by  neighbouring States, sister countries and regional organizations, including the Intergovernmental Authority on  Development (IGAD), the League of Arab States and others. IGAD, in particular, has undertaken a series of honest  initiatives aimed at finding a political solution to the civil war in Somalia. I should like to make special mention of  President Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti, who has called for an end to the conflict. My  delegation wholeheartedly supports this initiative. I invite all our friends, all persons of goodwill and the  international community to support President Guelleh’s plan for a just and lasting peace in Somalia.
(33.5) Despite this dark picture of destruction and misery, the Somali people have not lost hope of emerging  from their nightmare, and there are some regions that have begun to see light at the end of the tunnel. Peace and  stability have begun to return, and local administrations are beginning to reappear and are dealing, with patience  and dedication, with local issues; rebuilding is taking place. This is happening mainly in the northwest, around  Hargeisa, and in the northeast, around Garoowe. I should like to take this opportunity to ask the international  community to help these more secure regions in their efforts to build and develop, in the hope that they may serve  as examples for other regions to follow, a nucleus for the rebuilding of the new unified Somalia.
(33.6) In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as we stand at the gateway to the third millennium, celebrating the  International Year for the Culture of Peace, I should like to do what I did a number of years ago: call upon the  international community and all civilized States at this Conference to join with us in working to enable Somalis, at  last, to enjoy their right to peace, security and dignity - or rather, more simply still, their human right to life and  existence.  (L'orateur poursuit en français)
33.7 Excusez-moi, mon discours a été un peu spécial. Ma situation elle-même est exceptionnelle. Je ne sais  pas si je suis Don Quichotte ou le dernier des Mohicans, mais je sais qu'il y a un combat à mener. Laissez-moi  rêver. Peut-être suis-je le premier-né de la nouvelle Somalie qui pourra affronter ce troisième millénaire avec de  nouvelles armes après avoir vécu cette expérience sanglante. Cette Somalie sera peut-être fédérale ou  confédérale, mais elle sera démocratique. Sûrement, elle existera. J'ai tout simplement voulu lancer un cri, un cri  d'alarme dans cette maison de la conscience internationale. Il faut aider le peuple somalien à venir à bout de cette  situation. S'il y a un droit d'ingérence, pourquoi n'y aurait-il pas aussi un devoir d'ingérence ? Je vous remercie.
34. The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency, the Ambassador of Somalia to UNESCO. May I please urge future speakers to  respect the agreed time limit for statements. We still have a considerable list of speakers ahead of us, and also a  number of receptions, so compliance with the speaking time would be very much appreciated by the Chair. The  next speaker on my list is Her Excellency the Honourable Mia Amor Mottley, Minister for Education, Youth  Affairs and Culture of Barbados. May I invite you to speak to us.
35.1 Ms MOTTLEY (Barbados):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ministers, ambassadors,  representatives, ladies and gentlemen, please let me ask you, Mr President to convey my congratulations to  Ms Moserova, who was elected to chair this General Conference. This 30th session of the General Conference 1s
13   significant for all of us, as it is the last one of the twentieth century. This fact invites us to reflect on a number of  different issues - the state of the world, the plight of humanity, the appropriateness of the programmes and  policies of this Organization and the efficiency with which it does its business with the resources at its disposal.
35.2 The process of globalization is on the lips of all of us who reflect on the state of the world today. There  is no doubt that the improvements in the technology of transportation and communications have totally altered  our concepts of space, geography and time. What confronts our populations on a daily basis is not determined  solely by domestic concerns but is now shaped largely by events that occur thousands of miles away. Our  capacity to adapt to an agenda that we have not shaped for ourselves is now critical if we are to survive the  impact of globalization and all the consequential changes that are taking place in the international economy. It is  however incumbent on all of us to think of the many paradoxes which now characterize the world in which we  live.
35.3 One paradox lies in the juxtaposition of a world where the ideals we seek to pursue evince a greater  compassion for the welfare and quality of life of the ordinary citizen than ever before and a world which has also  seen an unprecedented level of senseless and baseless violence and consequential deprivation that has surpassed  previous eras in history. Another is reflected in the advanced development of international jurisprudence and  polity that provides a most complex infrastructure for nation-states and at the same time a great challenge to  nation-states to maintain concepts of sovereignty. Another paradox lies in the fact that as globalization threatens  to further marginalize small island States and the least developed countries, it also offers them the most exciting  opportunities that many of them have ever had for sustainable growth and improving the quality of life of their  people. It is a paradox that in the fight by countries to protect their cultural identity, they at the same time  espouse the need to open all the barriers in their minds to create the tolerance so necessary for peaceful  coexistence. A final paradox preaches the orthodoxy of the need to respect the basic human rights of individuals  and the sovereignty of countries yet remains silent when might is shown to be right or when unilateral actions and  decisions replace the process of building consensus.
354 Where do we stand in the midst of these paradoxes? What paths must be trod to ensure the survival of  our people? And where do institutions like UNESCO stand in this process? All these paradoxes did not appear  overnight out of nowhere. They are the cumulative development of the attitudes of individual men and women  who shape policies in the names of institutions and governments. How do we alter the extent to which these  persons, through their thoughts and deeds, reflect the hypocrisy that impedes the advancement of humanity?
35.5 These are not esoteric topics on which we should ruminate. They are the reality of what we must address  if we are to be faithful to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For those rights have been  the bedrock for the formation of the United Nations system of which UNESCO is not only a critical part, but the  part that treats of the minds, ethics and attitudes of the people whose utterances and deeds are the crux of our  problems. It is so easy for us to forget that it is about people, about individuals, at the end of the day. Education,  culture, science and technology are only modalities for us to attain these principles. This means that we must ask  ourselves whether this Organization is effectively attaining its objectives or whether it has become more  concerned with the process without reference to the objectives. Are the scarce resources at its disposal spent with  this level of consciousness reflecting the need to place a human face on globalization?
35.6 These are the questions we must ask, Mr President. We are constantly being told that the funds  originally promised for programmes consistent with this Organization’s principles and mandate are no longer  available, yet we see the contracting of over 64 eminent persons without the discussion or approval of the  Executive Board. It should be noted that we are not questioning the contribution of these persons. However, the  transparency and the cost of their appointment must be of concern to us when the funds promised for the  completion and printing of the General History of the Caribbean or for the projects under the Focus on the  Caribbean initiative are no longer forthcoming by reason of the inadequacy of resources.
35.7 It is hoped, Mr President, that the Task Force for the Twenty-first Century, which has been established  by the Executive Board, will assist the Organization in meeting these challenges. Is it also not time for us to  ensure that we can meet the principles of UNESCO by doing less but by doing it better rather than trying to be all  things to all people? It must be remembered that even where the Task Force does assist in advancing the process  and even where the Secretariat has clear ideas of where and what it wishes to see happen, the Member States  must direct and structure the reflection process and must also determine what identity UNESCO should have in  the future. We must not simply react to the recommendations of the Task Force and the Secretariat. To this end  the States of the Caribbean and other small island States must in particular examine the extent to which their  needs can be more effectively met by this Organization. We cannot complain on the sidelines and then not be  prepared to play a critical role in restructuring when we have the opportunity to do so.
35.8 The Government of Barbados is very appreciative of the work of the Caribbean representatives on the  Executive Board who have supported and in some cases already initiated strategies for bringing about  improvements in the work of UNESCO through, among other things, the development and adoption of guidelines  for the rational decentralization of UNESCO offices; proposals for improving the administration of the  Participation Programme by identifying sections of the Rules of Procedure which need to be changed; reflections  on processes, such as the format of the report by the Director-General and his relationship with the Board, that  would enable the Board to perform its executive role more effectively; and the implementation of results-based  budgeting. I would like especially to salute the work of Barbados’ representative, Ms Alissandra Cummins, who  has done a sterling job in representing not only Barbados but all the small island States and developing countries.
35.9 It is in this context, Mr President, that I must crave your indulgence and speak briefly to the issue of  small island States. Our challenges in the new global environment are twofold: we are trying to seek and maintain  relevant forms of economic development while trying to integrate or be integrated into global economy in which,  from its inception, we have only been allowed marginal participation. The emphasis on the dematerialization of  industrial production as opposed to the development of highly integrated structures derived from technological  innovations is one of the key features of globalization which threatens to widen the gap between the developed  and the developing countries even further. Small States often lack the resources of technological infrastructure  and, without assistance in this regard, will continue to comprise the knowledge-poor section of the globe. It is my  government’s belief, Mr President, that we must focus on seizing the opportunities that are presented to us in the  changes with which we are confronted. The time, money and effort that we expend seeking to retain a status quo  that is rapidly vanishing would be better deployed in crafting and investing in new sectors and new modalities  that will allow us to be more competitive in the global market. This requires above all else a confidence on our  part and a determination that we will not be forced into fear by the nature of the uncharted waters. However, it  does require us also to make some strategic investments in a number of key areas, the most important of which  are in education and culture. Given the nature of global production today there are means whereby small States, if  assisted, can effectively contribute to developing software components as well as management information  systems which can reach world standards.
35.10 In this regard small island States need to ensure that as many of their people as possible are productive,  independent and creative citizens who are capable of responding and adapting as effectively as possible to  changes, especially those to which I referred earlier, over which they may have little control. The education  system must meet the needs of as many of the students as possible by implementing reforms as the substance of  their programmes and not as distinct unrelated projects. We need to ensure that each child can learn to the  maximum of his or her ability and that he or she accepts learning as a lifelong responsibility.
35.11 In Barbados, we are pursuing this approach in recognition that the global economy now places a  premium on knowledge and creativity. Accordingly, we are implementing a comprehensive education sector  enhancement programme, commonly known as EduTech 2000. This seeks to integrate information and  communications technology into the teaching and learning process, to increase teachers’ productivity and  students’ interests in learning while at the same time reforming how we teach, what we teach and how we test. It  will also seek to promote cooperative learning and problem-solving. Indeed, we will spend approximately  US $200 million on top of our existing education budget over the next five years, that is approximately 25% of  our existing budget each year for the next five years, to ensure that all schools, primary and secondary, public and  private, are involved in the programme. While all of this is being done, we will also be trying to reinforce the  students’ attitudes and values so they reflect the very best and that they recognize and develop their  responsibilities to themselves, their families, their communities and their country.
35.12 Equally, the manner in which small island States treat the issue of cultural development both in terms of  the preservation of heritage and identity and in terms of the growth of the cultural industries will be critically  important in this adjustment process. While every effort must be made to preserve those aspects of our heritage  and identity that assist in strengthening who we are as a people, without fostering divisions, we must not become  myopic or intolerant of others. Indeed, to avoid this eventuality, the Government of Barbados has established this  year a National Commission for Reconciliation reflective of persons from all ethnic groupings and socio-  economic classes. They are charged with the responsibility of consulting extensively with the public. Thereafter,  they will determine and recommend to the Social Partners - the Government, the private sector, labour and civil  society - how these sensitive issues can best be dealt with nationally and sectorally so as to ensure that all groups  feel a sense of belonging and commitment to the country and that they have the opportunities for full economic  and social enfranchisement.
35.13 It 1s of interest, Mr President, that these activities, EduTech 2000 and the National Commission for  Reconciliation, are contributing to the promotion of a Culture of Peace and complement two of the fundamental  programmes that we are currently implementing with UNESCO. I refer specifically to the Associated Schools  Project and the Slave Route project. In addition, we must also be cognizant that our countries, owing to their size
13   as small island States, will never be able to provide sustainable markets for our industries, especially the cultural  ones. Our perspective must therefore be global. And we would do well to remember that, in changing our  perspective, the technological advances of the last few decades in fact make this task easier for us.
35.14 But what does all of this have to do with UNESCO? Very quickly, if we are truly living in an era in  which relations are defined by interdependence and cooperation, it must be realized that in spite of their small  size, small States can make, and have already made, significant contributions to the realm of global cultural,  political, economic and environmental issues. I have of course referred to contributions by gentlemen like  Sir Garfield Sobers of Barbados and Nobel Laureates Sir Arthur Lewison and Derek Walker of Saint Lucia.  Without our participation the international community would be lacking. Where we may need assistance,  however, from organizations such as UNESCO, is in the preparatory stages to eliminate or alleviate any handicap  we suffer from at the start of the transition process. We need help in being put in a position where we can control  our destiny to the maximum of our ability. While we are not seeking handouts we are seeking an equal  opportunity to be active and influential in a global capacity as sovereign entities. It is with the support of the  international community in securing our viability that we can effectively enrich the global order to the benefit of  all. Mr President, while UNESCO has been promoting visibility of small Member States more must be done  towards taking action to secure small island States’ interests and needs. Of course this will not obviate the  vulnerability that is ours by reason of size and this is why the Commonwealth Secretariat has set up a  Commission to review the plight of small island States and to sensitize all major policy makers in government  and international organizations. The Prime Minister of Barbados, the Right Honourable Owen Arthur, has had  the distinct honour of leading this group and we look forward to positive changes in the attitudes of the global  community.
35.15 These are only a few of the matters which must be urgently addressed by us all - Member States, the  Task Force and the Secretariat. Time is truly not on our side and not on mine as well today. Thus, urgency must  attach itself to our plans and our work, since the returns on such reforms cannot be expected until at the least  medium term. I trust, Mr President, that the new Director-General designate, Mr Koichiro Matsuura will rise to  the task and work closely with the Executive Board and Member States in assisting our successful transition as  small island States and the effective implementation of a new and more relevant mandate for UNESCO. In doing  this, he must build on UNESCO’s very strong foundation. I must say that it is the wish of my government to  thank the current Director-General for his many years as UNESCO’s leader and to wish him the very best in his  future endeavours. I look forward to the very challenging times of the early twenty-first century when we must  truly be dedicated to putting people at the centre of all of our decisions and actions as we, both Member States  and this Organization, seek to remain faithful to the very noble and very necessary principles of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights. I thank you.
36. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Minister for Education, Youth Affairs and Culture of Barbados for her rather long statement  and I now invite Mr Elie Jouen, Deputy Secretary-General of Education International to take the floor.
37.1 M. JOUEN (Internationale de l'éducation) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, dans les  semaines qui viennent, représentants des gouvernements, des organisations gouvernementales, y compris des  institutions financières internationales, et représentants des organisations non gouvernementales se retrouveront  lors de conférences régionales, puis au mois d'avril 2000 à Dakar pour procéder à l'évaluation de l'application des  décisions de Jomtien en faveur de l'éducation pour tous. Abandonnons un instant le langage diplomatique et  reconnaissons tous ensemble que nous avons échoué dans la réalisation de cet objectif, malgré la bonne volonté  et les efforts de plusieurs d'entre nous. Plus de 125 millions d'enfants n'ont accès à aucune forme d'éducation  scolaire et parmi eux un fort pourcentage de filles qui, très souvent, sont condamnées à travailler pour subvenir à  leurs besoins et à ceux de leurs familles.
37.2 Cette situation est intolérable et doit être rapidement corrigée. Nous savons qu'elle peut l'être pour peu  qu'une certaine volonté politique se manifeste et que des choix stratégiques soient opérés. Nous savons tous que  le transfert d'un très faible pourcentage des dépenses militaires au profit des budgets de l'éducation permettrait de  régler le problème de la généralisation de l'accès à l'éducation dans les dix années qui viennent. Organisation  internationale d'enseignants forte de 24 millions de membres, l'Internationale de l'éducation a décidé récemment  de joindre ses efforts à ceux d'autres grandes ONG internationales, comme Oxfam International et Action Aid,  dans le cadre d'une campagne globale visant à sensibiliser les opinions publiques, mais aussi les décideurs  politiques, à la nécessité de prendre rapidement les mesures qui s'imposent pour relever le défi de l'éducation  pour tous, et pour que les personnels retrouvent leur dignité et une situation matérielle conforme à l'importance  de leur mission. Le programme de l'UNESCO va aussi dans ce sens, même si nous aurions souhaité qu'il soit un  peu plus ambitieux.
37.3 L'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a décidé de proclamer l'an 2000 "Année internationale de la  culture de la paix", et l'UNESCO se retrouve toute désignée pour coordonner les efforts de la communauté  internationale. L'Internationale de l'éducation soutient les initiatives de l'UNESCO et a décidé d'organiser, elle  aussi, l'an prochain, une campagne mondiale pour une culture de la paix.
37.4 Chacun sait que sans paix aucun développement économique et social n'est possible. Ce sont encore  malheureusement trop souvent les pays qui ont le plus besoin d'investir dans le développement qui consacrent a  l'achat d'armes les sommes les plus importantes. En renouvelant ses efforts en vue de la diffusion d'une culture de  la paix, l'UNESCO reste fidèle à l'un des objectifs majeurs affirmé au moment de sa création.
37.5 Le Projet de programme et de budget pour le prochain exercice biennal fait, a juste titre, une large place  à "l'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie", en soulignant la nécessité de rénover les systèmes éducatifs et  plus spécialement l'enseignement secondaire général et professionnel, alors que la société de l'information  devient de plus en plus une réalité.
37.6 Certes, il faut accueillir, c'est-à-dire répondre à la demande quantitative des jeunes, mais il faut aussi se  préoccuper de la même manière des aspects qualitatifs et repenser tant les objectifs que les contenus et les  méthodes. Nous constatons avec plaisir que le programme I.2.2 répond à cette ambition. Nous avons déjà engagé  la coopération avec l'UNESCO dans ce domaine : nous la poursuivrons.
37.7 Chacun se plaît à reconnaître que le XXIe siècle sera celui de la connaissance et que les enjeux doivent  en être bien mesurés. Dans quelques jours s'ouvrira à Seattle la Conférence ministérielle de l'Organisation  mondiale du commerce. L'accord général sur le commerce des services, qui concernera aussi l'éducation, si cela  devait être confirmé, ne manquerait pas d'avoir des conséquences importantes pour l'Organisation, mais aussi  pour les objectifs de l'éducation, en particulier au niveau de l'enseignement supérieur. L'Internationale de  l'éducation souhaite que l'UNESCO se montre plus active dans ce domaine et refuse la marchandisation de  l'éducation. Il y a là un enjeu majeur, dont nous serions bien inspirés de mesurer toutes les incidences.
37.8 Avant de conclure, permettez-moi de remercier M. Mayor, le Directeur général sortant, des efforts qu'il  a déployés pour redonner à la profession enseignante sa place au sein de cette maison et à l'Internationale de  l'éducation le rôle qui lui revient compte tenu de sa représentativité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  (Ms Moserova resumes the Chair)
38. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Mr Jouen, Deputy Secretary-General of Education International, and I now call  Ms Jacqueline Rougé, Honorary President of the World Conference on Religion and Peace. I implore the  remaining speakers to keep within the time limit because we are running short of time. Madam, you have the  floor.
39.1 Mme ROUGÉ (Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix) :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je prends la  parole au nom de la Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix (WCRP), organisation présente dans le  monde entier, qui regroupe toutes les grandes religions établies, et qui a le statut d'ONG admise à entretenir des  relations officielles et de consultation avec l'UNESCO. La WCRP se félicite de l'adoption unanime à New York  d'une déclaration sur une culture de la paix inspirée par l'UNESCO. Elle entend coopérer activement en vue  d'atteindre l'objectif énoncé à l'article 2 de ce texte - la promotion de la compréhension, de la tolérance et de la  solidarité entre toutes les civilisations, tous les peuples et toutes les cultures - car elle est bien placée pour  contribuer à cet élément essentiel du programme d'action des Nations Unies.
39.2 Les progres de la mondialisation, qui met en contact toutes les cultures, offre à chacune d'elles de  grandes possibilités d'enrichissement, mais bien des peuples craignent aussi d'y perdre la spécificité à laquelle ils  sont attachés. La religion, qui a marqué leur histoire et qui imprègne toute leur civilisation, peut devenir un centre  de ralliement pour la défense de leur identité. Le risque existe alors de voir le sentiment religieux dériver vers  l'intolérance et la xénophobie. C'est donc à juste titre que l'article 8 de la déclaration inclut les organismes et les  groupes religieux dans la liste de ceux qui ont un rôle primordial à jouer en ce qui concerne la promotion d'une  culture de la paix.
39.3 La Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix cherche, pour sa part, à mettre en garde les fidèles de  toutes les grandes religions contre ceux qui croient pouvoir mettre le sentiment religieux au service de politiques  d'agression extérieure ou de repli sur soi. Elle les invite au contraire à revenir aux sources authentiques de leur
13   foi pour y puiser le sens de la dignité humaine, la compassion envers les plus démunis et la bienveillance envers  tous. Elle aide ainsi à "élever dans l'esprit des hommes les défenses de la paix".
394 La Déclaration sur la culture de la paix précise que l'épanouissement de celle-ci est fondé sur la  transformation des valeurs, des attitudes et des comportements, de telle sorte qu'ils contribuent à promouvoir la  paix entre les individus, les groupes et les nations. Les religions ont un rôle majeur à jouer à cet égard, chacune  pour son propre compte, certes, mais aussi toutes en commun. C'est ainsi que, dans les situations de conflit ouvert  à forte composante religieuse, la WCRP fait en sorte que les responsables de toutes les communautés religieuses  en présence se prononcent ensemble en faveur de la tolérance mutuelle et de la coexistence pacifique, et qu'ils  condamnent d'une seule voix les crimes commis au nom d'un attachement dévoyé à de pseudo-valeurs religieuses.
39.5 La WCRP est heureuse de participer aux travaux de l'UNESCO sur la rencontre interculturelle dans  lesquels la dimension religieuse est dûment prise en compte, par exemple aux travaux relatifs au projet "Routes  de la foi". Elle souhaite, dans tous les domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO, la poursuite de ces activités,  pleinement conformes aux objectifs de l'Organisation comme aux résolutions des Nations Unies sur la culture de  la paix. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
40. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you most sincerely, Madam. I should like to extend thanks to the Honorary President of the  World Conference on Religion and Peace. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Abou Demba Sow, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Mauritania to UNESCO.  : (GSlR950) so ddl EN)  OPCS RUN [OCT IT LS, FV POC 455 le À Lay cpl ddl RP  Baludl ipsa cagdgll clog) Balaadly Jal lool «Suna pladl pall Fins sped! (3 ulna  Lal de Byun Bug) Sand) S,laJl Jt pail of 03a lS Jie à 5 lyme] cola  Pll pall Led A Goll yeadl audi LS lal 3s Ledley Loan Gus Jog 03a U9) Feud,  lio LB, dale USL Sagan! LAY aa lyd Litabiies (deel Bag) «slo 95 seid sd!  shi 55 LES Sues Lai 45 p39 wdy Gaia (is Bysshe of cslandlls Boludl Clés £0  poled oo will JI abl pls clei Lod 3ST lal Jaa Las CLL Usd! JI SD Jade ols  Ba 3 (dS Jy ol Liebe Côlael ob Bo, Cal sLEl 505 JR] GIA) pls “5135  wl LS 5 ganll © pi logs 51555 5IS3 Seidl ll Ge (mysés Load wal of capa AA  Sl Gl ls le 5255 JI (a Giblgs Ge Les Olga Ÿ dus OF > 9 LY) 0S oY  Sally golf Hl) Jai; «Litige of pSale pS JI 2) of Ismael SLI [ia By opal  al 5 iS Lol 500 dla À ola yg old ¢ albll aol daw Ag gles Gud JI Loon pill  eUylgdl sla, pI « golly Soleil mall Je Baar bby wis LS Lb oa  Dlydio (lide windy cALEUl dal wig! sae Jo salad gall Jolly (SSII Galas  er cll AU 5s) ello) Jaks Goold Gal ud cislomn VU ag Lleol Lad!  VIS cindy cl pid pads Gaya lass Lulo¥ Sl smo Le dead cols sanally sl  SL gins whys Lol gos pal § pB58l Ball Bal) 565 Lily lawns 555 Luslain Yl GEL
2362) pI Leas le Sisal JI Sally pais] ALLO odgyy ola! Blast AS LaMN peg lal  REI (ESR REEVE  pL Jo Liles Louiblyl Usa! 8 pulang pond! LSIss 3 $00 LE, of cmlaadly Salud! Lei tot  Lay wlll ples Joly Lob aang LILI! Lwhll Bd! ls mo 030055 55 pla S905 el  Sly poli Spidl pB, JI Lio bing pala] ge 8,Sull Jol Gc sloglall Lans Ng Lpanl aolally  i pl Oeddly Clo Lis 3 le Cat) dues 3 le sLä5l po FAIRY] Lograll sal Sly OS duo)
474   Lyoy abi>y JW ofl gt b> slash So pol LS oll Lud! go slob) Loue Leads  awl lan 3 sO Lass Je Lay] 8 aS gSdigdly dati] BLES aad! Lael cm 3351 «Lilly  Jas pass Bilis oly À LS 050 S55 Blasi oda JS of combapdly Sola! lpi £8  clog JI SLL 5 Lele Diphy 508 Gla slow LAN Leds Il LL wlpshdll JS Als)  soll shal maby dls Le SAN G3IsU0 pas pa axl 3 ple joa plie ssl ol § da LS, Lal  Spall wlslall duos Gb Je djs! puis Godin Lely cabal labs Lol) pladdl op  Gage GUI "Lape" gy ytar GO CSS SUN lin dy Bgandl snd pan lus le Usa! 0555 V  RE EN RTA EPRI PI PP LO A ATR |
(41.1) Mr SOW (Mauritania) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, the blessings of God be upon His noble Prophet.  Madam President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Your  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by offering my heartfelt  congratulations to Ms Jaroslava Moserova on her election as President of this session of the General Conference,  and on her commendable guidance of its work since it began. I should also like to express my esteem for the  successful efforts made by the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, to prepare this Organization to meet the third  millennium with an adequate provision of scientific and cultural resources.
(41.2) Ladies and gentlemen, this Conference is being held just as we are taking our leave of a millennium the  final century of which has been marked by extraordinary scientific development, and the result of that, in turn, has  been comprehensive globalization, bringing in its train greater benefits for some and revealing a need for greater  international solidarity. Despite that development and the ending of the cold war, our Organization’s goals remain  valid. We still see, alas, civil wars and other sources of tension increasing almost daily. Moreover, even here at the  threshold of the twenty-first century, a substantial proportion of the world’s population is still illiterate. In this  context, I should like to say that Mauritania, thanks to political stability and the enlightened leadership of His  Excellency President Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed Taya, has made a substantial literacy effort which has produced  impressive results. In addition, fresh successes have been achieved in economic and social matters: the country’s  major economic balances are solid, and economic growth has been uninterrupted for the past 10 years, with the  result that various human development indicators have improved markedly. The school attendance rate has soared,  thanks to substantial investment by the State and local communities in infrastructure, teacher preparation and skills  upgrading. Other social facilities also make a favourable impression. Women, in particular, have been targeted  under literacy programmes and programmes aimed at raising school attendance rates and promoting participation in  public life. On this occasion, I should like to thank UNESCO for its unwavering support for my country’s efforts in  these areas.
(41.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Mauritania wishes to keep pace with the age we live in and seeks to enable its  citizens to join in the onward march of globalization, and to that end it has embarked on an important educational  reform, the implementation of which was timed to coincide with the beginning of the current school year. The  reform features, in particular, the teaching of foreign languages and the new sciences, most notably computer  science, in the early years. With a view to the scientific and cultural upgrading of creative people and the adoption  of appropriate incentives to that end, an international prize, to be known as the Chenguetti Prize for Literature, Art  and Science, will be awarded yearly as of next year. Furthermore, a plan is currently being prepared for the  collection, preservation, conservation and evaluation of the country’s cultural heritage, taking into account the  cultural dimension of development. UNESCO has provided invaluable help in this connection, and I extend my  thanks to the Organization.
(41.4) Ladies and gentlemen, all these accomplishments undoubtedly owe much to this Organization’s  programmes. I note with gratification the positive evolution UNESCO is currently undergoing, both as regards its  methods of work and the results it has achieved. I am confident that the Organization will play an important role in  reducing the imbalance between developing and industrialized nations that continues to characterize the evolution  of science, and that it will do the same in the field of new information technologies, so that globalization does not  take place at the expense of some of the world’s peoples. In this connection, my delegation welcomes the Arabia  Plan project, under which a data network linking the Arab countries is to be set up.
(41.5) In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to reaffirm my country’s attachment to UNESCO’s  principles and goals, and its commitment to the culture of peace project. Mauritania will always strive to turn those  principles and goals into practical reality. Thank you. Peace and the Mercy of God be upon you all.
42. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, IT should like to thank you sincerely for conveying to us mostly good news. I do appreciate the fact  that local communities have played a part in the improvement of education and I believe it is an excellent idea to  have a creativity prize for science and literature. We thank you, Sir, for your presentation and wish you the best  for your country. I now give the floor to Mr Andrés Delgado Hernandez, Secretary-General of the Catholic  International Education Office.
(43.1) Mr DELGADO HERNANDEZ (Catholic International Education Office) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  the organization that I represent is honoured to be given the opportunity to address this august session of the  General Conference.
(43.2) This happy circumstance makes it possible for me to inform you that our Office has drawn up its second  global plan along the lines of the strategy adopted by UNESCO for the year 2001. In so doing, the Catholic  International Education Office (OIEC), a federation of National Secretariats grouped together as five regional  secretariats representing nearly 250,000 educational establishments with over 40 million pupils, has restated its  resolve to join in UNESCO?s efforts based on the priorities established at Jomtien.
(43.3) At the fifteenth OIEC General Assembly, held in Jaipur, India, in April 1998 on the theme of challenges  facing Catholic schools in the twenty-first century, special emphasis was placed on basic education for all children  and exploring new educational opportunities for the excluded. The debate provided us with the key to the  definition of a large number of commitments, which, to list but a few, include taking the necessary steps to ensure  that our schools are accessible to the poor, with special attention to girls and young people; cater for adult literacy  and out-of-school youth; foster the democratization of education by eliminating different types of exclusion,  whether for economic, religious, ideological or partisan reasons; and make due provision for human rights  education based on ethical values, having regard to the intercultural dialogue of the future.
(43.4) Those commitments have given rise to three projects to provide education to different categories of  excluded persons. They are already being implemented in 40 countries.
(43.5) The Catholic schools established in all the continents accomplish their educational mission by using  teaching methods adapted to local cultures. That mission includes building capacities, knowledge and know-how,  and is specifically concerned with raising awareness. We therefore consider it imperative to continue our work on  behalf of young people who are still outside the school system, paying special attention to girls and all those to  whom the school system may seem irrelevant.
(43.6) Our teachers’ tireless efforts can be a source of dynamism for all. This is why we are so interested in  offering to cooperate actively with those UNESCO bodies that are concerned with education, teaching and the  search for “meaning”.
(43.7) We accordingly take part in the work done on the occasion of the major collective consultations of non-  governmental organizations and in the joint programme commissions. We follow with particular attention  UNESCO’s reflection in the areas of ethical education, bioethics, literacy, education for human rights and  tolerance, secondary education, vocational and technical education and education for peace. OIEC carries with it  the experience of Catholic schoolteachers in all the continents and as such considers that it has a duty to contribute  its expertise as a non-governmental organization to work done in UNESCO’s fields.
(43.8) I should also like to underline the great importance that UNESCO?s transdisciplinary project “Towards a  culture of peace” has had in Catholic education. Convinced as it is that the school is an ideal medium for  conveying the culture of peace, OIEC adopted the title of that project as a slogan, and its content as a teleological  element of the function of education. In fact, if a school really teaches the pupil the rigour of reflection in the  pursuit of truth and observing the precept of trust in human beings, it will also teach the pupil to have sufficient
13   insight to be able to judge the limits of what is tolerable and to understand that the intolerable must be combated  with the weapons of dialogue, justice and respect for the rights of others.
(43.9) In view of human society’s many needs, political authorities cannot but appreciate the cooperation that  civil society can offer for national construction, especially in the enormous task of education. In that connection, I  should like to recall here that when they ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child, States undertake to  provide all children with free access to primary education (Article 28) unconditionally, with due respect, of course,  for the freedom of choice granted to parents in Article 26.3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
(43.10) We are most gratified that UNESCO?s stated desire to strengthen, renew and enrich its collaboration with  non-governmental organizations has become a reality. OIEC therefore accepts unreservedly the requirements that  joint action entails, and agrees, to the extent possible, to join in the activities provided for in the programmes  approved by the General Conference at its various sessions and in those financed by extrabudgetary funds.
(43.11) I shall now conclude. In view of the imperative need to make progress in improving the lot of all human  beings, of every woman and every man, we hope that political authorities will promote rapprochement and  collaboration agreements with the whole of civil society in all countries of the world. Only a new approach to  relations, dialogue and concerted ethical action among individuals and nations can accomplish the miracle of  building a more humane society. Thank you very much.
44. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Secretary-General of the Catholic International Education Office. The efforts of the Office to  reach the unreached, the marginalized, is certainly essential. I now give the floor to Mr Jean-Claude Pecker,  representative of the International Humanist and Ethical Union.
45.1 M. PECKER (Union internationale humaniste et laique) :  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, fondée en même temps que l'UNESCO, notamment par  Sir Julian Huxley, l'Union internationale humaniste et laïque poursuit, depuis un demi-siècle, les mêmes objectifs  que l'UNESCO, avec des moyens beaucoup plus modestes, mais peut-être une plus grande liberté vis-à-vis des  Etats membres. D'ailleurs, nous souhaitons remercier l'UNESCO de nous avoir honorés de sa présence lors de  notre dernier Congrès mondial qui s'est tenu au début de l'année, à Mumbai, en Inde.
45.2 Or on doit s'alarmer de voir ces objectifs plus éloignés qu'ils ne l'étaient il y a 50 ans. La population  mondiale, alors de deux milliards, atteint aujourd'hui six milliards, et ne cesse de croître. Les disparités  économiques entre pays nantis et pauvres ne cessent de se creuser. La "décolonisation" et la chute de certains  grands empires n'ont pas amélioré la situation. La misère des plus misérables s'est aggravée dans leur propre  pays, en raison d'une concentration des richesses entre les mains de quelques-uns. Les conflits allumés par les  tensions démographiques, économiques, sociales, voire religieuses, prennent chaque jour plus d'extension. Les  droits de la personne humaine sont foulés aux pieds en tous les points de notre planète. Des incendies couvent et  éclatent au gré du vent des intérêts inavoués qui les attisent. La situation est lamentable, c'est une aberration.
45.3 Pourtant l'humanité est une. Une immense solidarité devrait unir les habitants de cette planète et primer  toutes les autres considérations. Nous, humanistes, croyons que l'avenir de l'humanité pourrait être brillant : les  moyens que nous offrent la science et la technologie, essentiellement planétaires, sont capables d'améliorer la  condition humaine. Une simple preuve en est l'allongement moyen régulier de l'espérance de vie. Nous devons  d'abord, comme il est écrit dans le Manifeste humaniste 2000, signé par un aréopage d'éminents humanistes,  reconnaître partout la dignité et l'autonomie des individus, la responsabilité et les devoirs de tous vis-à-vis de  tous, le besoin, dès le plus jeune âge, d'une éducation inculquant des principes d'éthique réellement universels.  C'est un devoir de l'humanité vis-à-vis d'elle-même.
45.4 Il est donc impossible de considérer avec sympathie les politiques qui se déploient ici ou là, attisant les  conflits. La mondialisation qui s'affirme est celle des intérêts financiers, de la pression des armes, c'est-à-dire des  marchands d'armes et de pétrole. Ce n'est pas celle de nos valeurs humanistes, de notre destin commun. Ce ne  peut être en aucun cas celle de l'UNESCO. Nous ne pouvons plus laisser ce monde en proie aux égoïsmes, aux  appétits de puissance. Hélas les plus grands pays, qui se veulent chez eux des exemples de démocratie pour le  monde, foulent aux pieds cette même démocratie dans les actions internationales : ce sont les plus importants  fournisseurs d'armes de mort dans le monde. Certains pratiquent encore la peine de mort sous des formes  inadmissibles. Les plus petits pays pâtissent souvent de dirigeants habiles, mais cupides. Un clientélisme s'y  développe sans frein. Aux bords des grands empires, les tensions sont attisées par les disparités, par des  nationalismes qu'on aimerait d'une époque révolue, par les fondamentalismes de toute sorte. Cela est vrai dans les  cinq continents.
45.5 Nous ne pouvons pas laisser, sans réagir, le chaos s'instaurer ainsi, sous la houlette de ces maffias  - maffias des religieux fondamentalistes, maffias des nationalismes exclusifs, outranciers, dépassés, maffias des
478   trafiquants d'armes, maffias de marchands de pétrole, ou de n'importe quoi, maffias des marchands de haine,  maffias aussi des marchands de croyances obscurantistes, tant est grande la crédulité des gens et leur désarroi.
45.6 C'est dire à la fois notre malaise et, cependant, notre immense espoir. Car nous savons aussi que  l'universalité des progrès de la connaissance rationnelle, la seule qui puisse prétendre à l'universel, l'universalité  qui doit être admise des droits de la personne humaine, l'universalité vitale du respect des uns par les autres,  martelées combien de fois par l'UNESCO, doivent finalement s'imposer, comme une absolue nécessité de survie.  Par notre présence ici, nous, humanistes et laïques, souhaitons dire oui à une UNESCO sachant dire non si  nécessaire, pour que l'UNESCO soit le garant de l'universalité. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
46. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, whose aims are very similar  to ours and I now give the floor to the last speaker of today, Ms Martine Lévy, representative of the World  Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts.
47.1 Mme LEVY (Association mondiale des guides et éclaireuses) :  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, L'AMGE, Association mondiale des guides et des  éclaireuses (en anglais WAGGGS), est la plus importante association féminine du monde. Flle regroupe  actuellement plus de 140 organisations nationales et touche plus de 10 millions de filles et de jeunes femmes dans  le monde. Le nombre de ses membres ne cesse d'augmenter, en particulier dans les pays en voie de  développement. L'AMGE s'est donné pour mission de "permettre aux filles et aux jeunes femmes de développer  pleinement leur potentiel de citoyennes du monde conscientes de leurs responsabilités”. Pour y parvenir, elle a  choisi comme thème de son action "Edifier une citoyenneté mondiale”. Flaborées en 1996, les activités  organisées autour de ce thème prendront fin en 2003, année qui marquera le soixante-quinzième anniversaire de  l'Association. En optant pour ce thème, l'AMGE a voulu donner à ses efforts un point d'ancrage et permettre à ses  organisations membres de travailler en synergie sur des problèmes communs, par et avec des moyens parfois très  divers.
47.2 Quels sont ces problèmes ? Ce sont tout simplement ceux qui dominent dans notre monde actuel :  l'environnement, l'éducation, la santé, en particulier de la petite fille, l'alimentation et la nutrition, la paix, la  conservation du patrimoine. Plus de 90 pays ont déjà mis en oeuvre plus de 300 projets.
47.3 La paix semble cependant être l'une des grandes préoccupations de ces organisations qui travaillent sur  le terrain. Dès 1994, l'AMGE a travaillé en partenariat avec le Haut Commissariat des Nations Unies pour les  réfugiés autour du projet des "colis de la paix". Ces colis, confectionnés par les membres de l'AMGE, étaient  destinés, dans un premier temps, aux guides et éclaireuses du Rwanda ; l'action s'est élargie à tous les pays en  guerre et aux camps de réfugiés ; elle se poursuit actuellement à destination du Kosovo.
47.4 Les organisatrices de la Conférence régionale africaine de l'AMGE qui s'est tenue à Abidjan (Côte  d'Ivoire) en juillet 1998 avaient inscrit à l'ordre du jour ces deux thèmes majeurs : "les femmes en tant qu'agents  de paix" et "la résolution des conflits". Une réflexion s'est engagée et c'est ainsi que l'Association mondiale des  guides et éclaireuses a pu être présente et apporter une importante contribution à la Conférence panafricaine des  femmes pour une culture de la paix qui s'est tenue en mai 1999 à Zanzibar, en Tanzanie, sous l'égide de  l'UNESCO et dont le thème était "les femmes d'Afrique pour une culture de la paix".
47.5 Mais la paix n'est pas seulement le contraire de la guerre. C'est aussi la tolérance. Alors méme que la  mondialisation prend de plus en plus d'ampleur, les cultures se fragmentent et les nationalismes prennent le  dessus. Au sein de notre association mondiale, nous mettons l'accent sur ces cultures différentes qu'il importe de  sauvegarder, mais nous reconnaissons aussi que ces différences peuvent être source d'incompréhensions et de  conflits. C'est pourquoi, en tant qu'organisation internationale, nous apprenons à nos jeunes filles et à nos jeunes  femmes à respecter la culture de l'autre et ses différences et nous leur apprenons à devenir citoyennes du monde.
47.6 A la veille du lancement de la "Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la non-violence  et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde", il semble donc clair que le travail mené en commun par l'UNESCO  et l'AMGE doit se poursuivre et s'intensifier, en particulier dans le cadre des activités relatives aux femmes et à la  culture de la paix.
47.7 Quels moyens s'offrent à nous pour atteindre la paix ? L'éducation de base, l'éducation pour tous est  certainement un de ces moyens : elle est au centre des activités de l'AMGE et de l'UNESCO. Près de dix ans déjà  se sont écoulés depuis la Conférence de Jomtien (Thaïlande) tenue en 1990 sur l'éducation pour tous et pourtant  les rapports récents sont accablants : il y aurait près d'un milliard d'enfants illettrés dans le monde et sur
855 millions d'adultes illettrés dans le monde, les deux tiers sont des femmes.
47.8 L'AMGE est l'une des six associations mondiales de jeunes qui ont établi en 1998 le document intitulé  "L'éducation des jeunes, à l'aube du XXIe siecle". Il a depuis lors été élaboré un document sur le thème  "Politiques nationales de la jeunesse : pour une jeunesse autonome, solidaire, responsable et engagée", qui  exprime le point de vue des organisations de jeunes s'occupant d'éducation non formelle. Il contient des  recommandations pour que les politiques nationales de la jeunesse soient à long terme cohérentes, efficaces,  utiles et mobilisatrices et pour qu'elles s'appuient sur l'éducation formelle, certes, mais aussi sur l'éducation non  formelle. Les auteurs de ce document "encouragent tous ceux qui participent à l'élaboration des politiques de  l'éducation des jeunes pour le prochain millénaire à reconnaître que l'éducation non formelle est un élément  essentiel du processus éducatif et à prendre acte de la contribution que peuvent y apporter les organisations  d'éducation non formelle". Depuis de nombreuses années, l'UNESCO préconise une conception de l'éducation  comprenant notamment l'éducation non formelle ; il semble, là encore, évident que le travail mené en commun  par l'AMGE et l'UNESCO doit se poursuivre dans le cadre de la Consultation collective sur l'enseignement  supérieur.
47.9 Une bonne alimentation, une bonne santé sont aussi des moyens d'instaurer la paix. L'Association  mondiale des guides et éclaireuses travaille en étroite collaboration avec la FAO. Avec Family Health  International et le Fonds des Nations Unies pour la population, l'AMGE a mis sur pied un programme très  important concernant la santé des adolescentes réfugiées ou déplacées de plusieurs pays d'Afrique ; ce projet  appelé HARP a pour objectif d'améliorer la santé, et en particulier la santé génésique, de ces adolescentes par le  biais de l'éducation non formelle. L'AMGE a signé récemment un accord de partenariat avec le programme de  lutte contre le sida des Nations Unies ; relayé par l'AMGE sur le terrain, ce programme vise à expliquer aux  jeunes africains les problèmes liées au VIH et à les mobiliser pleinement afin d'enrayer le cours de l'épidémie.
47.10 Le temps qui m'est imparti ne me permet pas de poursuivre l'éÉnumération des actions menées par  l'Association mondiale des guides et éclaireuses elle-même et en partenariat avec l'UNESCO, avec les autres  organismes des Nations Unies et avec plus de 20 autres organisations internationales non gouvernementales aux  niveaux international, régional et local. Je terminerai donc en disant que l'AMGE est, cependant, et avant toute  autre chose, une organisation pour les jeunes ; nous avons pendant des années travaillé dans le cadre de la  Consultation collective sur la jeunesse ; nous sommes très heureuses de pouvoir travailler maintenant au sein de  la nouvelle Unité de coordination "jeunesse" de l'UNESCO. Je vous remercie.
48.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts. I should like to  express appreciation of the work that the Association is doing. It is well known that it has always been guided by  very high ethical principles.
48.2 And with this we come to the end of our list of speakers for today. I thank all those still present. I  appreciate your faithfulness. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée à 18 h.45  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18.45
3aceranne 3akpbBaeTc4 B 18.45  slas 1,80 dell à Ladadl ue,  ZT 18 I 45 4) 55 TR