Dix-neuvième séance plénière
11 novembre 1999 à 15 h.10  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Nineteenth plenary meeting
11 November 1999 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Decimonovena sesiôn plenaria
5 pine daw I) doled] dud]  SAB an vo LS LI 1488 SUN pt] yuedsd 1)  (SFR Lyygeanll) By piso Blog) Le Based! Gud I  AA À)  FTES
591   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE SUR LE POINT 9.9 :  TRAITEMENTS, ALLOCATIONS ET PRESTATIONS DU PERSONNEL (suite)  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON ITEM 9.9:  STAFF SALARIES, ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS (continued)  INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA SOBRE EL PUNTO 9.9:  SUELDOS, SUBSIDIOS Y PRESTACIONES DEL PERSONAL (continuacién)  HOKJIA/[ KOMHCCHH TIO AIMHHHCTPATHBHbIM BOITPOCAM I10 ITYHKTY 9.9:  OKJIA/IbI, HAZIBABKU H [PYT HE BBITIJIATBI HEPCOHAJTY (npoxomxexnne)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Friends, as usual I should like to thank those who came on time, and propose that we wait for another  five minutes. Thank you, I thank everyone who was here on time.  (The meeting is suspended for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the nineteenth plenary meeting of the General Conference. In  order to be able to conduct this meeting I need your consent, because it has not been foreseen by the Bureau. I  take it that you agree to this meeting taking place. Thank you, I am happy you agree because we have a matter  which needs to be resolved.
1.3 We shall now return to the item we were examining yesterday, which was Part I of the Administrative  Commission’s report concerning item 9.9, “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits”. We heard the report on this  particular item and the short draft resolution that was proposed, which the delegates felt did not address the issues  at hand; in addition, as there was not a sufficient degree of understanding of the matter under discussion it was  understandable that the delegates were not ready to take any decisions on the matter. And as we did not have any  alternative proposals, and we were running out of time, we decided to continue our examination of the item at  another meeting. That is why I have called this meeting today, which you have graciously agreed to attend. I hope  that today we will have a proposal that will receive your support. I know that the delegation of New Zealand has  asked for the floor to present a proposal to this gathering. I therefore give the floor to New Zealand.
2.1 Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  Thank you, Madam President. I would like first of all to read out the proposed resolution contained in  the paper you have before you:  The General Conference,
1. Having examined documents 30 C/42 and Corr.,
2. Takes note of the contents of documents 30 C/42 and Corr.;
3. Authorizes the Director-General to introduce the seven-grade system recommended by the  International Civil Service Commission as from 1 January 2000;
4. Requests the Director-General to present proposals to the Executive Board at its 160th session on a  new General Service staff policy;
5. Further requests the Director-General to negotiate with the staff unions an agreement on standards  of conduct for the future servicing of the needs of the Organization and its governing bodies;
6. Regrets that Rule 52.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which requires the  Secretariat, acting under the authority of the Director-General, to take various steps in order to  facilitate the effective conduct of the General Conference, was not fulfilled at this 30th session.
2.2 Before proceeding further, I should like to draw your attention to one small amendment made as a result  of consultation since the text was drafted this morning. It has been suggested to me that we should take items 1  and 2 under category I as we often do, and that the new text should become II. I do not imagine there is much  problem about that. But there was a concern which I received from several quarters, and about which I checked  during the lunch hour with the Legal Adviser, about the wording in paragraph 3 because, as you might remember,  there were several other recommendations made by the ICSC which we had not included. So I am proposing a  small amendment to the text to make paragraph 3 read as follows: “Authorizes the Director-General to introduce  the new seven-grade scales as well as other recommendations made by the ICSC as from 1 January 2000”. This  simply rectifies the language in the first half and includes the recommendations that we had left out yesterday and  that were omitted from my original draft. I will repeat the new wording at the end of my remarks, Madam  President.
2.3 Madam President, you are to some extent familiar with the background to the controversy. The difficulty  we have had lay at least in part in the consideration given by the Administrative Commission to matters which  were legitimately on its agenda. It is required to consider certain matters by our Constitution and other  arrangements. The changes made by the Commission arose firstly, to be honest, out of the concern felt by many  of us that the whole changeover had not been well handled, but more importantly out of a concern for the well-  being of the incoming Director-General and a smooth transition. We had also been aware in other respects that  there had already been overspending in the next biennium beyond that which had been approved or included in  document 30 C/5, to the tune of several million dollars. We have made comments about that in other resolutions  agreed to in the Administrative Commission which will be submitted to the plenary next week. But when we  came to this item on our agenda, we were concerned to give the new Director-General as much flexibility as  possible and in good faith we made certain alterations believing that they would give him greater flexibility.  Madam President, you advised the Administrative Commission yesterday that our offer to the incoming Director-  General was not necessarily something he wanted, but I think it is also fair to say that some of us came to the  conclusion that it would probably be fairer to the incoming Director-General if there were no problems in this  area at all. In a way he was bound to lose either way. So it was made known to me in my capacity as Chairperson  of the Administrative Commission that it would be helpful to the incoming Director-General if the Conference  itself could resolve these matters. I therefore started work this morning on trying to arrive at a text that would be  acceptable.
2.4 What this text does is to accept what has happened already, to give some reassurance to the general staff  that what they have they will not lose, and also, inter alia, to show that the General Conference recognizes that  the general staff position is a matter of permanent concern for us all. These are the people who are the least  advantaged in the system and we did not want to make anything more difficult for them. The text also seeks in  paragraph 4 to give the incoming Director-General the opportunity to look at General Service staff policy as a  whole, and submit recommendations to the Board in a year’s time, when he may or may not wish to make some  improvements to the system. It recognizes that the effect of all of this on the conduct of this Conference has not  been good, and requests - and I notified the STU that we were doing this - the Director-General to negotiate with  the unions some arrangement for conduct for the future servicing of the needs of UNESCO and its governing  bodies. I think we are all agreed that we do not want ever again to be confronted with the difficulties we have had  during this Conference. Lastly, Madam President, it picks up the concern which I and others have expressed  about what we regarded as the failure of the Secretariat to ensure that the Conference functioned effectively and  in so doing overtakes another intention I had had.
2.5 I would like to conclude by repeating the two small amendments to the text I am now proposing to  replace the one you have before you. The first amendment is that the two paragraphs we agreed to last night  become I, and the remainder becomes II, with a consequential change in numbering. But the more significant  change is in paragraph 3 on the sheet before you, which should read as follows: “Authorizes the Director-General  to introduce the new seven-grade scales as well as other recommendations made by the International Civil  Service Commission as from 1 January 2000”. If we had not made that change, we would have left out important  parts of the decision we were required to consider. I move this proposal, Madam President, on behalf of the New  Zealand delegation.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Mr Marshall, the representative of New Zealand. I believe that what has been put  to the Conference shows wisdom and foresight, which is important. I give the floor to the representative of India.
4.1 Mr RAO (India):  Thank you, Madam President. There is a saying that goes: “All is well that ends well”, and I will  therefore make very brief comments. I will start by saying to Professor Marshall, the representative of New  Zealand, that I fully endorse his negotiated text which is before us, except for a minor change which I will come  to as I go through it.
4.2 First of all, I think we can fully endorse the division into Parts I and II, without any difficulty  whatsoever. | am glad Professor Marshall said that paragraph 3 should also talk of other recommendations made  by the International Civil Service Commission as from 1 January 2000. That takes care, in fact, of all the  recommendations which are in Part III of document 30 C/66, and are now covered by Part II. There are, however,  two small points which I would like to make, Madam President. Firstly, in the opinion of India, paragraph 6 in  the proposal of Mr Marshall is something that India finds is not really appropriate in this context. If, however  other Members feel strongly about it, we suggest it be taken as a separate decision, because it is not really  relevant to paragraphs 3, 4 and 5.
4.3 Lastly, Madam President, there is a final paragraph, paragraph 3 of Part III in the resolution proposed in  document 30 C/66 which reads as follows: “Delegates to the Executive Board the authority to decide upon the  recommendations of the International Civil Service Commission on future salary surveys for Paris staff in the  General Service and related categories”. I think this is a very good recommendation, because in all the other  specialized agencies it is their executive boards that have been delegated this authority. Only in UNESCO has  this rested with the General Conference. In fact, if the UNESCO Executive Board had had similar authority, the  Board which met at its 157th session would after discussion have made appropriate decisions and proposals. So it  may be useful to add a final paragraph to the text proposed by Mr Marshall, worded in the same way as that last  paragraph in document 30 C/66. With these few observations I would like to strongly support the proposal made  by New Zealand. Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the representative of Uruguay.
(6) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. My statement is in fact more a point of order than anything else. We have  always wanted to find a solution to the problem, in all earnestness. So much so that we immediately accepted - and  were the first in this respect - the draft amendments you put to the Administrative Commission yesterday. But it is  very important for us, before any kind of decision is made, that you inform us of the situation of the conflict with  the staff. And it is important because it pertains to the institutional policy of Uruguay, which recognizes the right to  strike and was one of the first countries to embody it in its Constitution, to be sure that we are not holding this  plenary meeting under threat or pressure. So could you please, Madam President, before any decision is reached,  tell us about the situation of the conflict with the staff. Thank you, Madam President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  No one likes to work under pressure, and I think that is why it was so difficult to reach a consensus and  to find a way in which the issue could be accommodated in a fair, proper way, so that the General Conference  would have the prestige it deserves, because it is the highest authority in UNESCO. But I can assure you that I  know this text would cover the needs that are to be met and I think will enable us to have a smoother General  Conference. We are not doing this to accommodate the General Service staff, we are doing this to resolve an  issue which we should resolve, to make sure that the delegates who have come from afar to attend the meeting  can do the work that they wish to have done, and also get the incoming Director-General off to a better start -  there is no doubt about that. But in answer to your question, yes, this would make for a smoother running of the  Conference. Does that answer your question? I now give the floor to the representative of Malaysia.
8. Mr DAS (Malaysia):  Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. I wish to be very brief and I want to take this  opportunity to endorse the text which is most acceptable to my delegation. I indeed thank Mr Marshall for the  work he has undertaken in coming up with something which is acceptable to us. Thank you very much indeed.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the representative of Uruguay, whose question I apparently did not answer.
(10) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, you asked me if you had answered my question, but you did not give me a chance to  say “yes” or “no”. No, you did not answer my question. I was asking you something else. You said that this would  make for smoother running of the General Conference in the future, but I was asking about the present situation.  Are we working under threat or pressure at the moment or not? Thank you, Madam President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  The question seems very hard to answer, because everyone knows that the strike is going on, so there is  pressure applied; but we are not deciding this matter because of the pressure. It certainly plays a part in the  proceedings, it would be ridiculous to deny that, but I have not just spoken with the strike leaders or whatever, so  I cannot really answer you in this respect. We are dealing with an issue which I hope we can handle with wisdom  and foresight, and I think that what has been presented to us by New Zealand deals not only with the present  situation, but, what is more important, with the future, so that a situation like this would never arise again. I am  sorry, I cannot give you a better answer, Sir.
(12) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. I can deduce from your answer how things are going since, if you do not  say outright that we are not under any threat or pressure, that means that we are. Thank you.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the representative of Haiti.
14.1 M. CHARLES (Haiti) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais tout d'abord présenter toutes nos félicitations à M. Marshall  pour les efforts qu'il a déployés et dont sa proposition de résolution - que nous appuyons sans réserve - est le  fruit.
14.2 Par ailleurs, la délégation d'Haïti n'a pas le sentiment d'agir sous la menace. Certes, nos travaux sont  quelque peu perturbés, mais force est d'admettre qu'une grève, pour avoir un sens, ne peut aller sans un minimum  de perturbations. S'il y avait menace, il n'aurait peut-être pas été possible de tenir une quelconque séance, dans  aucune salle. Le moment est venu, à mon sens, de faire preuve de compréhension. Evitons les débats passionnés,  évitons de parler d'affrontement, de conflit, de menaces. Puisque des accords sont intervenus à l'issue de  consultations, il convient maintenant que nous nous déterminions sereinement, et j'invite tous mes collègues à  appuyer et soutenir la proposition de M. Marshall. Telle est en tout cas la position de ma délégation. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now call upon the representative of Nigeria.
16.1 Mr LIJADU (Nigeria):  Thank you, very much, Madam President. First I would like to thank New Zealand for this initiative.  And while thanking New Zealand I would like to remind this gathering that in fact yesterday we had a text which  was prepared by the President and for that I want to thank her very much, because part of the wording proposed  by her at that time has been reflected here, so we could perhaps have found a solution earlier than this.
16.2 But coming back to the new text, I absolutely agree with those who spoke before me that in fact we have  here the solution for what we want to do. However, I agree with Mr Rao, the representative of India, on the  amendment to paragraph 3 because failing that we would have had to do something about 1t. That is the first  point. The second point is that somehow paragraph 6 does not really seem to me to belong here. The sentiment  behind it is perhaps something which should be expressed in a separate statement or resolution coming from the  President of the General Conference on behalf of all of us. I think that would give it the necessary strength,  because I think it is something that needs to be said, very clearly, without any ambiguity. But that does not mean  that I will not accept the text as it stands if the preponderant feeling of the house is that we can accept it as it is  here.
16.3 Finally, I would like to go along with the President’s statement that what we are doing here is not being  done under duress. We are acquitting ourselves of our duties as responsibly as possible. Flexibly, but in no  circumstances under any threat whatsoever. Anybody who might have the impression that they are threatening the  General Conference, would have to think again because that is not what we are here for. We are doing our duty  and we will not be dissuaded from that one way or another. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank the distinguished delegate of Nigeria and I now call upon the representative of the  United Republic of Tanzania.
18. Mr BAVU (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to associate Tanzania with the others who have  supported this draft resolution presented by New Zealand. I would also like to commend Mr Marshall for having  taken up the matter in his capacity as a delegate of New Zealand, after the problems which we experienced  yesterday. My commendations would, I think, have been even greater if this action had been taken two or three  days ago. I would also like to support the amendments which were proposed by India, and of course seconded by  Nigeria. Thank you, Madam President.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now call upon the representative of Cuba.
(20) Mr HERNANDEZ PARDO (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. I shall be brief. It is no good crying over spilt milk. I think the draft  resolution presented, with the amendments proposed by India, constitutes a solution that many envisaged from the  outset. But the important thing is that it is a text which, as you were saying, deals not only with the present  situation, but also with possible problems in the future. My delegation, which as you are aware has made a number  of statements on the issue, definitively endorses this draft resolution, with the amendment proposed by India.  Thank you very much.
21. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to acquaint you with the list of speakers. We have Mexico, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, United  Kingdom, Kenya, Lebanon, Togo, France, Sweden, Ukraine, Zimbabwe and Saint Lucia. I would like to close the  list of speakers, because we might be able to come to a consensus. It seems to be hopeful. No one else? I now call  upon Mexico.
(22) Mr SANCHEZ GUTIERREZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. I should first like to thank New Zealand, and Mr Marshall in particular, for  their efforts to help us out of this impasse. We think the draft resolution presented is acceptable, as it proposes a  mechanism for addressing the concerns that had become apparent with regard to the role of the General  Conference. We agree with India and Nigeria that paragraph 6 does not really seem to belong here. Thank you,  Madam President.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I also thank you for your brief and very concise way of expressing yourself. I shall now  call upon Egypt.  (pe) 550 dud] YE  Ol wos dl eb courge of bis si was Joss Ÿ LST Yl 3) Of sf chun JI Saad! (1,83
(24) Mr GOHAR (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. I should first of all like to make it clear that we are not acting under any  pressure or threats, as must, I think, be the rule for this Organization. Secondly, I support the amendment proposed  by the delegation of New Zealand, and also the amendment proposed by India relating to paragraph 6, as there is  no justification for its inclusion in this context. Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank the distinguished delegate of Egypt and now call upon Saudi Arabia.  (Agra dyad) ASLalf) dade op Add Al!  chailsso 389 Ce pil zr FIL dy Logan! Aus yall ASIA 03g of duns JI (SH SS  Jax] ols! 5 Lady ge 3 Nasal laa dalle § Leddy Jl oggadl US de ILE) lo aud! Sig  Awd J Saw [SE SEAT J) SAN ge JelSIL Ca lie 15 NS! Je NES] SI
(26) Mr BIN SALAMAH (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. My delegation fully supports the proposal by the delegation of New  Zealand, and thanks Mr Marshall for his efforts in dealing with this issue. Taking into consideration the  amendment to paragraph 3, my delegation supports the entire draft text, from paragraph 1 to paragraph 6. Thank  you.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I do appreciate your contribution. I shall now call upon the representative of the  United Kingdom.
28. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President. I agree with my colleagues. I think that the text that we have in front of  us, with the amendment to paragraph 3, is an appropriate decision for this General Conference. I am inclined to  agree with my colleague from India and others who have suggested that paragraph 6 might properly be taken as a  separate resolution. If we do this, I would suggest that we add a further preambular paragraph which simply says:  “Bearing in mind Rule 52.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,”. And the reason I suggest we  put that in as a preambular paragraph is that it then explains, without going into detail, operative paragraph 5.  Thank you, Madam President.
29. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the representative of Kenya.
30. Mr WANDIGA (Kenya):  Thank you, Madam President. May I also record our appreciation for the work done by Mr Marshall in  producing this text. I would also like to register our agreement with the amendment proposed by India,  particularly the inclusion in the draft resolution of paragraph 3 of the draft recommendation in document
30 C/66. Lastly, may I say that anybody reading this text, if the history of UNESCO were to be written 20 years  from now, would not really appreciate the importance of paragraph 6. Paragraph 6 needs to be said, and needs to  be stressed. There could be some preambular reference to it here, but I think it could stand alone and be stated  separately elsewhere. That I think would represent the feeling of Member States. Thank you.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the representative of Lebanon.  Hob) 4135 sud 1 FN  dy oda phase) BAL SU gad! Le JLab sed! Sal Lait Ul chug Jl Fae CSS  sped) das LS vB 3 pill Gal Je IIS GIs Sly oss; GER Ge DsSlly idyll  oll Leas! Lad Lgiond UI wl 81 Sle ly asad pall JIB cpaasll pope Laie (Jab  Of lid! po lad (ashy GBI Go 5 À LOY [sy 24 8801 olay og hall SSII! Lagl 5331 Eds!  à Jaa of V Lal Losis à oY Ball Ge 0 SRI JI S,LINI olay Sasall ISLAM Jie 78 axl  Wer ARS ge v8 LIL aig) gael cl JI Sse ps] ol ai Vis foal] Lol  DS Chad Page Sais L lin Sell oda Go 585 1 5 Basal
(32) Mr NACHABE (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. I, too, should like to thank Mr Marshall for his efforts in preparing this  conciliatory draft, with its two main divisions. I agree with the proposed text of paragraph 3, as amended by  Mr Marshall when presenting the matter, in order to refer to the new system and to the other proposals made by the  International Civil Service Commission. I also support the suggestion that has been made regarding paragraph 6. In  view of the fact that we are in a climate of harmony and agreement, perhaps it would be appropriate for us to accept  the suggestion made by the representative of the United Kingdom concerning a reference to Rule 52.5 of the Rules  of Procedure in the preambular part of the resolution, without going into detail. So I should like to associate myself  with those who have expressed support for India concerning the addition of paragraph 3 of document 30 C/66  which is at the end of that document. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Lebanon and I now give the floor to the representative of France.
34. M. MUSITELLI (France) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais dire à mon tour que la France appuie pleinement la  proposition de la Nouvelle-Zélande. C'est une solution raisonnable, de bon sens, et qui a le mérite de renvoyer  chacun à ses responsabilités propres. Je m'associe à tous ceux qui ont exprimé leurs remerciements au Président  de la Commission administrative. Je suggère toutefois que nous ne nous contentions pas de lui adresser des  remerciements oraux et que nous rajoutions à ce texte un paragraphe ainsi rédigé : "Exprime sa profonde  gratitude au Président de la Commission administrative pour tous les efforts qu'il a déployés dans des  circonstances particulièrement difficiles afin de trouver des solutions acceptables pour tous." Je vous remercie,  Madame la Présidente.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I believe you would have to render thanks to the delegate of New Zealand, to be quite  precise. I have a feeling that this is UNESCO at its best. The representative of Togo has the floor.
36. M. JOHNSON (Togo) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente, j'ai cru comprendre que le projet qui nous est soumis par M. Marshall est  le résultat de négociations avec les délégués du personnel. C'est pourquoi j'appuie ce texte et adresse mes  compliments à M. Marshall pour les efforts qui ont été déployés. Je pense comme l'Inde, le Nigeria, la Tanzanie  et d'autres pays que le paragraphe 6 n'a pas sa place dans le projet et, pour ma part, je suggère qu'il soit purement  et simplement supprimé. Je voudrais formuler un voeu. A mon avis, le problème qui se pose et les conditions  dans lesquelles il se pose montrent clairement qu'il s'agit d'un problème entre le Directeur général et son  personnel, ne relevant pas, normalement, de notre compétence. Je souhaiterais donc qu'à l'avenir ni la Conférence  générale, ni le Conseil exécutif n'aient à examiner des problèmes de ce type. Par ailleurs, j'appuie la proposition  de la France tendant à ajouter un nouveau paragraphe. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
37. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Togo and shall now give the floor to the delegate of Sweden.
38. Ms HANSSON (Sweden):  Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of my delegation I would like to thank Mr Marshall for all the  blood, sweat and tears he has put into this text, a text that we support wholeheartedly, with the amendment  proposed by India concerning the delegation of authority to the Executive Board, and also the proposal by the  United Kingdom to include a preambular paragraph referring to paragraph 6 and also - why not - the amendment  proposed by France to thank Mr Marshall. Thank you very much.
39. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to Ukraine, to be followed by Zimbabwe and then Saint Lucia, which will bring us  to the end of the list of speakers. Ukraine has the floor.
40. I'-a COTHHKOB (Yxpanma):  braromapro Bac, r-xa Ilpencenarens. [ns MHOFrHX H3 MpHCYTCTBYFOIIHX 371€Cb JIEJIETATOB ITO YKE HE  riepBas ceccua l'enepanbHoï kondepenummn IOHECKO, Ha koTopoit oxx paGoTaroT, HO TaKyrO OOCTAaHOBKY H  TaKy1O0 aTMocepy, KOTopas CIIOXKHIACb BOKPYT HBIHEIIHEH CECCHH MPHIIOMHHTb, OCOGEHHO 3A MOCHEAHHE FO/bI,  TpynHo. He BraBadcb B MOAPOOHOCTH MpPHYHH, MbI MOHHMA@M MOTHBBI, KOTOPRIE BMKYT MPE/CTABHTEIIMH  o6mux cayxx0. Ho B TO ke Bpems, MbI IOHHMA€M H IpHYHHbI, IIO KOTOPHIM PYKOBOACTBO Opraxnsarmm  Y/IOBI€TBOPHTb BCE BbIJIBHTA€MbIe WMH TpeOOBaHUS He MOKET. B raHHOM ciydae, Kak 37eCh OTMeYAIn  HEKOTOPbIE MOH YBa)KaeMble KOJIErH, MbI PA0OTAITH MO] Yrpo3aMH, 1101 JaBJICHHEM. Yrpo3 He ObLIO, JaBICHUE  opto. Camoe rnagHoe 370 OBUTO TO, 4TOOBI HaÂTH KoMmpomnee. Ilosromy Omaromaps mepam, KoTOpbIE  mpepnsan Bel, yBarxaemaa r-xxa I IpenceraTenb, a Take TeM Mepam, KOTOPBIE MpPEATpPHHAT MPEACTABHTEJB
(40) Mr SOTNYKOYV (Ukraine) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. For many of the delegates present here this is not their first UNESCO  General Conference, but a situation and an atmosphere such as have emerged around the present session are hard to  recall, especially in recent years. Without going into details about the reasons, we understand the motives behind  the action of the representatives of the General Service staff. At the same time, however, we also understand the  reasons why the Administration of the Organization is unable to satisfy all the demands put forward by them. Some  of my honourable colleagues have stated here that at this session we have been working under threat and under  pressure. There have been no threats but there has been pressure. The most important thing has been to find a  compromise. For this reason, thanks to the steps that you took, Madam President, and also those taken by the  representative of New Zealand which, in particular, have been reflected in the draft resolution proposed by him, we  have been able to verify yet again the correctness of the phrase that we hear so often in our Organization: “It is not  the logic of force that conquers but the force of reason”. The delegation of Ukraine supports this resolution and  once more thanks the President of the General Conference and the representative of New Zealand for having  gradually led us to a compromise solution. Thank you.
41. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you most sincerely. We now come to the representative of Zimbabwe. Sir, you have the floor.
42.1 Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):  Thank you, Madam President. First of all I would like to thank New Zealand for bringing forward this  proposal which is before us, which I believe is going to resolve our problems. I am pleased at least to see that we,  as an Organization, are at last assuming our responsibilities and taking a necessary decision rather than leaving  things in limbo for a period of five years. I am also pleased to see, Madam President, that we are at last beginning  to practice what we preach when we talk about tolerance and understanding - which promotes the culture of  peace. I think we are beginning to lend credibility to those statements that we so often make; and yet in the past  few days our behaviour might not have been in tune with what we say.
42.2 Madam President, we are the Member States, we are UNESCO, and I believe that the general staff are  also part of UNESCO, they are part of this Organization. The future of the Organization will depend on good  working relationships between us and them. After all, Madam president, we must not forget that the general staff  come from Member States and that they are in a way Member States in the same way we are. So, with these few  words I would like to propose that we adopt the proposal by New Zealand, taking into account the amendments  proposed in regard to paragraph 3 and paragraph 6. Thank you.
43, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Sir. And as the last speaker this afternoon we have the representative of Saint  Lucia.
44.1 Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):  Thank you, Madam President. Since I am the last speaker, I am going to take my time again. Madam  President, I have no reservations about the results reached by the delegate of New Zealand. Since discussion  started on this issue in the Board, long before the Conference, we have said many times that cuts should start  from the top, not from the bottom. However, we have reservations about the way we have reached this decision.  Those who want to reassure themselves that there was no pressure exerted are free to do so, but the reality is  different. The fact that we have had two plenaries to discuss item 9.9, this being the second one, and that this one  was not agreed upon by the General Committee of the General Conference I think is proof enough.
44.2 Now, I agree with the amendments to paragraph 3. I agree with India on the insertion of paragraph 3  from document 30 C/66 after paragraph 6. I think that paragraph 6 could become a separate resolution, but it  should also remain in this text because it is not irrelevant here - on the contrary, it is totally related to item 9.9. I  would agree to the United Kingdom amendment, and also agree with the paragraph added by the French  delegation. Now, as to paragraph 5, I do not know what it really means but I will not oppose it. I would, however,  like the incoming Director-General to know that what we would like to see happening is something similar to  what is happening in the United Nations right now. We want strict legislation concerning strikes and how they  should be dealt with. Thank you, Madam President.
45. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Saint Lucia. I give the floor to the representative of Mauritania on a point of  order.
46. M. OULD KHALIFA (Mauritanie) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je vous prie de m'excuser si je demande à prendre la parole alors que la  liste est close. Je souhaiterais simplement faire une petite proposition complétant celle de la France, qui rendant à  César ce qui est à César, a suggéré l'ajout d'un nouveau paragraphe remerciant M. Marshall des efforts qu'il a  consentis pour désamorcer en quelque sorte les tensions. Je propose que dans ce nouveau paragraphe la  Conférence générale exprime également sa gratitude à sa Présidente, dont la proposition initiale, formulée dans  un esprit de conciliation, a permis à M. Marshall d'aboutir à une solution. Je vous remercie, Madame la  Présidente.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
48.1 Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  If T may, I would like to reply, not to the embarrassing pieces so much, but to some of the other  comments, just to explain one or two things. Firstly, I must say, Madam President, on the last paragraph I  basically agree with the representative of Saint Lucia that in a way it belongs here; but I am prepared to accept  the United Kingdom proposal for a preambular paragraph. As long as it goes somewhere and is said by the  Conference as a whole, and if that is the will of the meeting, I am prepared to accept that.
48.2 The second point I wanted to make, again in response to Saint Lucia, is that the reference in paragraph 5  is actually designed to pick up the very point that she made. We looked, in preparing this, at the standards of  conduct document from the ICSC, so that is what it refers to, even though it is not in capital letters.
48.3 Thirdly, while T agree with India and those who have supported India about delegating authority to the  Executive Board, I am in a little bit of a difficulty. My own view is that we should not be concerned with some of  this business at all, and that the more these matters are delegated, the better ... but this is what we are stuck with!  My difficulty is that I worked through this text with a number of people - and I want to acknowledge their  contribution in a moment - and I do not want to do anything here which might rock the boat, if you understand  what I mean. I did not run this proposal past those with whom I consulted, and would prefer not to go back to the  STU to say “Oh, by the way, we have done something else”. I might be too cautious, perhaps, I readily admit  that, but I am so nervous about getting this through that I do not really want to do anything which looks different  from what I have talked with others about, and would prefer that that proposal, which I basically agree with, were  referred to the next General Conference.
48.4 And, finally, Madam President, I should acknowledge the fact that this was not a solo act. I want to  thank the staff of the Secretariat for their very constructive role in helping me to get to this position on behalf of  my own delegation, and, in particular my own colleague, Mr Bachiri, from my Administrative Commission  secretariat. And I want to pay tribute to the role that the leadership of the STU played in at least working through  these resolutions, because some of them impact on them as well, and I think it was helpful to have their assistance  in drafting all this work. And, Madam President, I am grateful for the comments. I do find it interesting that one  can be vilified one day and praised the next day; I think yesterday I was probably, as my colleague from Kenya  reminded me last night, one of the demons of this place and it is strange how one can change overnight into a  slightly different character, and I do not really particularly mind that! This is almost certainly the very last act I  will perform for UNESCO, as I complete nine years with the Organization, and I am relieved, I might say, that it  looks as if the last thing I do will have a happy consequence - depending, of course, on the outcome of the vote  we are about to have. Thank you, Madam President.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Marshall. If T understand correctly, you would rather keep the text as is. Can the  representative of India give us his reaction to this?
50.1 Mr RAO (India):  Thank you, Madam President. First of all, T would like to support the suggestion made by one of the  distinguished delegates. I think that in expressing our thanks and appreciation we should include the President of  the General Conference as well as the representative of New Zealand. We should not forget that it was you who  took the unusual initiative, when you found that the running of the Conference had to be improved, making  certain suggestions, although as the distinguished delegate of Nigeria has said, this could have been settled two  days ago. I am sure the editors who will finalize this resolution will take care of it.
50.2 On the second point, all is well that ends well and I do not want to just make suggestions, but since there  was support for paragraph 6 to be a separate resolution, and taking into account the suggestions made by the  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom, one of the thoughts that comes to mind is that it might be adopted
600   by the General Committee of the General Conference because after all it affects the running of the Conference,  and it would have greater weight. But I do not want to disturb anything and I want the proposals in front of us to  be adopted, I hope, by consensus and unanimously. Thank you.
51. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. If T may be so presumptuous as to propose something, would you agree,  Mr Marshall, with us dealing with paragraphs 1 to 5 as presented and amended by you and have paragraph 6, if  the United Kingdom is in agreement, and with whatever words of appreciation might be recommended, dealt with  separately?
52. Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  I think so, Madam President. I think that to pick up the concern that Saint Lucia has, and which I share, I  might talk with the Rapporteur of the Commission to make sure that the report to the Conference reflects this  concern on behalf of the Administrative Commission as well, because we felt it quite keenly there.
53. The PRESIDENT:  Any additional items that were proposed, such as the appreciation of your good self, Sir, need not be  discussed now. They could go through the Bureau, I presume.
54. Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  I would not wish to make a comment about that.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Saint Lucia, you have the floor.
56. Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):  Madam President, I want to know what amendments you are including and what amendments you are  excluding.
57. The PRESIDENT:  I will ask Mr Marshall to make that clear.
58. Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  The position now is that what we did last night becomes section I. The new text becomes section II. The  significant alteration is in what is currently paragraph 3, which now reads as follows: “Authorizes the Director-  General to introduce the new seven-grade scales as well as other recommendations made by the International  Civil Service Commission as from 1 January 2000”. Paragraphs 4 and 5 stand, and the rest is referred on to the  General Committee of the Conference. So the proposal, Madam President, is to place the new text under II and to  make that one change in order to include the other recommendations in the present paragraph 3.
59. The PRESIDENT:  This is quite clear. Thank you, Sir.
60. Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):  I am sorry, Madam President, but it is not clear. I still do not understand what happened to the United  Kingdom amendment, and I do not understand what is happening to paragraph 3 that concerns our methods of  work, like delegating to the Executive Board the authority to decide upon the recommendations of the  International Civil Service Commission. This is clearly about methods of work and was introduced by India and  supported by many countries. I also want to understand what is happening to this paragraph.
61. The PRESIDENT:  The author of the whole text does not recommend the Indian amendment and I should like to hear  India’s reaction to that because I can see its representative asking for the floor.
62. Mr RAO (India):  Madam President, I think my suggestion was that paragraph 3 in Part III of document 30 C/66 be added  as paragraph 6 to this draft resolution. It is not controversial. It is simply telling this General Conference to  delegate to the Executive Board. In my explanation I said that this is the case in all other specialized agencies,  where the Board, rather than the General Conference approves General Service salaries. In this I received support  from a number of delegates in their interventions. So if you think it is appropriate and Mr Marshall does not see  any objection it could be inserted as the last paragraph of this resolution. But as I said before, I think we should  adopt this unanimously. I would not wish it to be held up by any amendment. Thank you.
63. The PRESIDENT:  Does the United Kingdom feel it is not being accommodated? I give the floor to the representative of the  United Kingdom to provide clarifications to the delegate of Saint Lucia.
64. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom):  My proposal was that, bearing in mind that we are deleting paragraph 6 and that it would be convenient  to have some explanation of operative paragraph 5, it would be helpful to include an additional preambular  paragraph that simply said: “Bearing in mind Rule 52.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference”. I  believe that a number of colleagues thought that this would be a sensible way of proceeding and I heard no  objection. It is not a point I would press, but I think it would improve the text. Thank you.
65. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the United Kingdom. May I ask the representative of New Zealand if he  agrees?
66. Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  That is fine. I actually misunderstood Mr Stanton the first time and I apologize to the United Kingdom  for not realizing earlier. The amendment is perfectly sensible to my mind. And I think, Madam President, that I  should also say on the other point which has been raised that if the General Conference wishes to accept the  amendment, then the Conference is its own master. I do not want to be too proprietary over my own text.
67. The PRESIDENT:  The Chairperson of the Executive Board has the floor.
68. Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe):  I just wish to speak in support of the proposal by India. You know that this trouble with which the  General Conference is confronted began before the General Conference started, when the Executive Board was  meeting. But the Executive Board does not really have the remit to deal with such matters. We believe that the  paragraph that India suggests transferring from document 30 C/66 to this resolution authorizes the Executive  Board, which is after all subservient to this General Conference, to deal with matters like this. You know, the  point we have got to in this General Conference is really a regrettable one for a major world organization like  this; we found ourselves in a situation where the President of the General Conference was negotiating with  labour, the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission was negotiating with labour, and all these efforts were  being made because we were trying to retrieve the unfortunate situation that had developed. The Board is closer  to the staff than the General Conference is, if you look at the hierarchical order of things. And of course it is the  practice in the other agencies of the United Nations. I think that we should give the proposal by India serious  consideration in anticipation of problems of a similar nature in the future.
69. The PRESIDENT:  Mr Marshall, do you find this acceptable for there are many aspects still to be taken into account?
70. Mr MARSHALL (New Zealand):  I do not want to make an issue out of it and the proposal does make some sense. I was just slightly  nervous about changing anything of substance, but if the Conference wishes to do that, then who am I to disagree  with the Chairperson of the Executive Board? I am going to bow to wiser judgement.
71.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now vote on the text presented with the inclusion of the amendment by India and a very short  amendment by the United Kingdom which was understood and which I believe is acceptable to the author of the  draft resolution. Can I have a show of hands, please. Who is in favour of the proposal by New Zealand? Who is  against? I see none. Who abstains?
712 Thank you. Out of 93 Members present and voting, 90 were in favour of the proposal, none against, and  there were three abstentions. The proposal is therefore adopted as amended by the General Conference.  (Applause)
71.3 I give the floor to Uruguay.
(72) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, I want to explain the reasons for my vote, as I am entitled to do. I want first of all to  say that I fully agree with the resolution adopted. Secondly, I did not vote in favour because I still have doubts  about whether we are working under pressure. Had I been certain that we were meeting under pressure, I would  have voted against. Lastly, as the Spanish proverb very wisely has it, “When in doubt, don’t”; so I abstained. Thank  you, Madam President.
73. The PRESIDENT:  I understand your sentiments, Sir. I can assure you, if that answers properly your question which I did  not answer properly before, I was under no pressure. But I know that some delegates were working under  difficult conditions. We now have to deal with the former paragraph 6 of the text. I see Hungary asking for the  floor. Sir, it is yours.
74. M. PATAKI (Hongrie) :  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Madame la Présidente, je voudrais préciser que j'ai voté en  faveur de ce projet de résolution en raison des efforts déployés par M. Marshall que la Hongrie soutient sans  réserve. Je tiens toutefois à faire remarquer que nous ne devons pas être hypocrites, que, il nous faut l'admettre, la  Conférence générale était soumise à des pressions et que c'est dans ces conditions que nous avons voté. Merci.
75. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Hungary. I give the floor to Austria.
76.1 Mr MAYNHARDT (Austria):  Madam President, the majority of the Member States of this Organization have agreed to the contents, to  the substance. The delegates here want the best situation for the General Service staff. They want the best  situation for the professionals working in this Organization. After all, we want to see that the money given by the  Member States to this Organization benefits the projects and programmes of UNESCO but also that the people  working here enjoy what they do.
76.2 However, we have to bear in mind that we are living here in a microcosmos with the real world outside,  and that we are being watched by public opinion in many member countries. We should bear in mind, as was  mentioned by Hungary and to some extent by Uruguay, that many things went awry in this decision-making  process. We should be a model for democracy, for tolerance; we should be a model for not interfering in the free  expression of speech and the free expression of opinion. What we have had during the last few weeks was not a  model. Ninety Member States voted, sending out a clear signal that we can all go along with. Let us look towards  the future, Madam President. Thank you.
77. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to say that I think that we all learned a lesson and that the lesson which we and the staff and  the Administration learned, and which is in fact reflected in what New Zealand presented, will ensure that the  situation will not occur again. I thank you also for cooperating and for showing wisdom and I thank Mr Marshall  for showing not only wisdom but foresight, because that is what I believe to be of the utmost importance. We  certainly never want to be faced with such a situation again. It is not for us to deal with, but I am glad that it is  resolved and I thank you all for participating in this matter. The meeting stands adjourned.  La séance est levée a 16 h.30  The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 16.30