Vingtième séance plénière
12 novembre 1999 à 10 h.20  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twentieth plenary meeting
12 November 1999 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Vigésima sesiôn plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the twentieth plenary meeting of the General Conference. The first  part of this plenary meeting will be conducted in private as stipulated in Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference. According to Rule 63 of these Rules of Procedure, “When it is decided, in exceptional  circumstances, to hold a private meeting, all persons shall be excluded except the members of those delegations  which are entitled to vote, representatives and observers entitled to participate without vote in the deliberations of  the bodies concerned, and the necessary members of the Secretariat”. We shall begin the private meeting once  those not authorized to attend have left the room.  (The public meeting is suspended at 10.25 a.m. and resumes at 10.40 a.m.)
1.2 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now resume our work. I would like to remind you that the provisions of  the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure applicable to the appointment of the Director-General are Article VI,  paragraph 2, of the Constitution, and Rules 108 to 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
1.3 The Chairperson of the Executive Board will submit to the General Conference meeting in plenary the  name of the candidate to the post of Director-General proposed by the Executive Board (30 C/NOM/3), the draft  contract between the Organization and the Director-General (30 C/46) and the draft resolution
1.4 Following that the General Conference will vote by secret ballot on the name of the candidate, that is,  Part I of the draft resolution contained in document 30 C/PLEN/DR 2. If at the end of this ballot the candidate  presented by the Executive Board is appointed, I will submit for approval by the General Conference the draft  contract, in other words, Part IT of the draft resolution in question. I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Chetsanga.
2. Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Madam President, in my earlier presentation I recapitulated the details of the procedure followed by the  Executive Board to make its final nomination of a candidate for the post of Director-General of UNESCO. The  last point I wish to mention is that the Executive Board held private meetings on 6, 13, 18, 19 and 20 October to  consider the subject of the nomination of a candidate for the post of Director-General of UNESCO in conformity  with the provisions of the Constitution. At its 157th session, the Executive Board decided to submit to the  General Conference, in conformity with Rule 108 of the latter’s Rules of Procedure, the draft contract between  UNESCO and the Director-General. Finally, Madam President, after taking all of these precautions, the  Executive Board proposes to the General Conference at this 30th session the candidature of Mr Koichiro  Matsuura of Japan for appointment as the Director-General of UNESCO. Thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Chetsanga. I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference, who will  explain the voting procedure in detail.
4.1 Le SECRETAIRE :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. En premier lieu, le Secrétariat va remettre a chaque délégation trois  bulletins de vote et une enveloppe blanche. Les délégations appelées a voter devront glisser dans l'enveloppe l'un  des trois bulletins qui leur aura été remis et un seulement. La présence de deux bulletins rendrait le vote nul.
4.2 Les délégations qui désirent voter pour le candidat proposé par le Conseil utiliseront le bulletin qui porte  la mention "OUI". Les délégations qui souhaitent voter contre ce candidat utiliseront le bulletin qui porte la  mention "NON". Et enfin les délégations qui désirent s'abstenir mettront dans l'enveloppe le bulletin qui ne porte  aucune mention ; il est de couleur blanche.
4.3 Sous peine d'être considéré comme nul, le bulletin employé pour le vote ne devra porter ni mention, ni  inscription d'aucune sorte, ni signature, et vous devrez utiliser uniquement l'un des bulletins distribués. Vous ne  devrez ni révéler votre identité, ni indiquer l'Etat que vous représentez sur ce bulletin. Enfin, le bulletin qui sera  utilisé devra être glissé dans l'enveloppe blanche qui vous aura été remise, et dans celle-là seulement.
4.4 Le scrutin auquel nous allons procéder maintenant ne portera que sur la partie I du document
30 C/PLEN DR 2, c'est-à-dire sur la partie qui concerne la nomination du Directeur général. Après l'annonce des  résultats, vous serez appelés à vous prononcer sur la partie II du texte, c'est-à-dire celle qui a trait au projet de  contrat entre l'UNESCO et le Directeur général qui vous est soumis.
4.5 Les délégations seront appelées successivement par le Secrétaire dans l'ordre alphabétique français des  Etats membres en commençant par l'Irlande dont le nom a été tiré au sort. À l'appel du nom de l'Etat qu'elle  représente, chaque délégation déposera son bulletin, mis sous enveloppe, dans l'urne qui se trouve devant la  tribune. Madame la Présidente, avec votre autorisation, nous pouvons commencer l'appel nominal.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  I think that was quite clear. I hope everything was understood. I should now like to designate two tellers.  They are Ms Vera Lacoeuilhe of Saint Lucia and Mr Emil Hother Paulsen of Denmark, who have kindly agreed  to carry out this task, and I should like to invite them to take their places at the table reserved for the tellers.  (The two tellers take their seats near the ballot box)
5.2 The Secretariat is now distributing the ballot papers and the voting will commence shortly.  (The vote is taken by roll-call)
5.3 Ladies and gentlemen, the ballot having ended, we shall now proceed with the counting of the votes. I  invite the Vice-President, Her Excellency Ms Laura Faxas, Dominican Republic, who has kindly accepted to  supervise the counting, to take the key to the ballot box.
5.4 I now suspend the meeting in order that the ballot papers may be counted.  (The votes are counted)
5.5 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume our work. First of all I should like to thank Her Excellency  Ms Laura Faxas of the Dominican Republic for having supervised the counting, and the two tellers, Ms Vera  Lacoeuilhe (Saint Lucia) and Mr Emil Hother Paulsen (Denmark), for having kindly accepted the task of tellers. I  shall now announce the results of the ballot: number of Member States entitled to vote during the present session:
178; number of Member States that did not vote: 12; abstentions: 9; invalid ballot papers: 6; number of votes  cast: 151; number of votes constituting the majority required to be appointed: 76; number of votes obtained by  the candidate proposed by the Executive Board: 146; number of votes against: 5.
5.6 Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Koichiro Matsuura having obtained the required majority, I declare him  appointed Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  (Prolonged applause)
5.7 The ceremony of investiture of Mr Koichiro Matsuura will take place on Monday 15 November at
5.8 The Chairperson of the Executive Board has already presented to you the draft contract between  UNESCO and the Director-General, as well as Part II of draft resolution 30 C/PLEN/DR.2. As there are no  objections, I consider Part II of the draft resolution adopted.
59 Before I adjourn the meeting, I would like to inform you that I will report on this morning’s General  Committee meeting at the plenary tomorrow morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this  very important and historic meeting of the plenary. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée a 12 h.10  The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12.10