Cinquième séance plénière
28 octobre 1999 à 10 h.20  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : M. BEYDOUN (Liban)  puis : M. KOKO (Tchad)  Fifth plenary meeting
28 October 1999 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Mr BEYDOUN (Lebanon)  later: Mr KOKO (Chad)  Quinta sesiôn plenaria
1 IsToe ImreHapHoe 3aceaHHe
(2133) 95S Blof polel sud! : 5  AR à)  AHRNEÈS
19994F10 H28 H 10H20}  FRE: RETELS CESAM)  Br: LUTTE (BREHO  ma: FFE CERD
127   VISITE DE S. EXC. M. ROBERT MUGABE, PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU ZIMBABWE  VISIT OF H.E. MR ROBERT MUGABE, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE  VISITA DEL EXCMO. SR. ROBERT MUGABE, PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA DE ZIMBABWE  BH3HT ETO IPEBOCXO/HTEJIBCTBA I'-HA POBEPTA MYT'ABE, IPE3H/1FHTA PECITYBJIMKH
3HMBABBE  Slo Lugo oud (loge D gy wud dal us Lo 840)  FEAF MNESGED HY + BIN (Robert Mugabe) SLAM TKS  (H.E. Mr Robert Mugabe takes his place at the rostrum)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fifth plenary meeting of the 30th session of the General  Conference.
1.2 It is with great pleasure that I welcome to the house of culture and peace, to the General Conference of  UNESCO’s Member States, His Excellency Mr Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe. Allow  me, Sir, to say a few words on this auspicious occasion.
1.3 Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to welcome to this 30th session of the General  Conference, the last before a new century and millennium, a personality who can be listed amongst UNESCO’s  oldest and closest collaborators. Mr President, we are all aware of, and grateful for, the unwavering support  which you have given to the Organization, its programmes and its Member States, especially over the last two  decades. The 1982 and 1999 Pan-African Conferences of African Ministers of Education, the 1996 World Solar  Summit and African Youth Forum for World Heritage, the 1997 Business and Investments Forum for Renewable  Energy in Africa which launched the Project on Global and Renewable Education and Training — each of these  highly successful gatherings, which reflect the pillars on which UNESCO rests and strove for the educational and  thus social betterment of all peoples, profited from your vast experience and specialized knowledge.
1.4 We all know, of course, of the important role that you played as a freedom fighter in your great country,  Zimbabwe. We know you were instrumental in liberating your countrymen from the scourge of racism and the  chains of hatred. We also know of your key role in the rise of the phoenix which is now known as Zimbabwe  from the ashes of the former Rhodesia. You have not lost any of that zeal of the freedom fighter. This zeal is  reflected in your commitment to the issues of sustainable development, particularly in respect of the inclusion of  women in the development process, and in your commitment to the endeavour to overcome the fatal threat which  the disease AIDS represents for so many of our Member States.
1.5 And yet there is the other side to you. That side which is the man of peace. You were a great motivator  in the establishment of the Southern African Development Community, realizing that the best route to  maintaining peace in your region and in the world at large is by building up parternships which promote equity,  stability and freedom. It is surely the recognition of this quality that led to your being invited to act as mediator in  some of the worst conflicts ever seen in modern-day Africa. Wherever the conflict, whoever the protagonists, you  have always been universally accepted in this role. This is a measure of the respect you command not only on the  African continent, but also in the world at large.
1.6 Mr President, at the beginning of this short address, I spoke of a new century and a new millennium.  There was good reason for this. We have the chance at this time to truly reassess our values and our actions. As  we all look to improving ourselves and search for the manner in which to do so, it is men such as your good self  who will act as an inspiration to us all. In every way, you represent the very ideals on which UNESCO was  founded and which continue to guide the Organization today. These ideals of peace, equality, human dignity,  tolerance, partnership — and I could go on — need to be preserved now more than ever before. I am sure that they  will be for as long as we continue to have your example to follow. I thank you for your presence here today,  Mr President.  (Applause)
1.7 I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Christopher Chetsanga.
2.1 Mr CHETSANGA (Zimbabwe), Chairperson of the Executive Board:  Madam President, in this house of culture and peace allow me before I embark on my text to greet my  President in the customary way: Mwauya Gushungo.
2.2 Mr President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great privilege and honour for me to welcome, on behalf of  the Executive Board, His Excellency Mr Robert G. Mugabe, President of Zimbabwe. We on the Executive Board  of UNESCO feel highly honoured by your presence.
2.3 Mr President, your presence at the General Conference is a strong expression of your spirit of goodwill  to all UNESCO’s Member States represented at this forum. Your presence provides a strong confirmation of the  warm relations that underpin the cooperation existing between Zimbabwe and our Organization. UNESCO is a  body that treasures the principles of freedom, social justice and intellectual cooperation. Your visit, Sir,  represents a commitment of Zimbabwe to the ideals of democracy, peace and development which your country  shares with UNESCO. I know that, on account of your own personal history as a freedom fighter, you have  continued to be a fierce defender of democracy, human rights, peace and tolerance. You come to UNESCO at a  point in history when we are on the eve of a new millennium. This is an era in which human development, as well  as the provision of goods and services, are all knowledge-driven. The provision of education and knowledge falls  within UNESCO’s area of competence. Therefore, if you want cooperation in education for your country and  your people, you are in the right place.
2.4 The challenge to UNESCO to provide mankind with better systems of education has never been greater  than it is today. UNESCO is called upon to be extremely creative in leading mankind in this intellectual battle to  empower our younger generations with the intellectual tools to compete in this new global era. UNESCO  provides opportunities for the developing world to acquire technological skills in order to achieve sustainable  development. UNESCO, the house of ideas, renewal and cultural upliftment, a place where global alliances are  forged for the eradication of illiteracy, serves as the hub of a system of global networks for the promulgation of  knowledge.
2.5 The Executive Board had commendable foresight in making the important decision to initiate the World  Solar Programme during the 1994-1995 biennium. They had foreseen the potential of solar energy in serving as a  clean source of energy. Mr President, your passion for a cleaner environment and desire to see remote villages in  developing countries gaining access to energy made you accept UNESCO’s request that you serve as President of  the World Solar Commission. UNESCO commends you for your strong interest in promoting the reduction of the  emission of greenhouse gases and your desire to contribute to the eradication of poverty through energy  economies. UNESCO is now focusing its activities on education and training in solar energy. Your presence here  provides renewed vigour to the Organization’s action in regard to international cooperation and the search for  innovative approaches in the fields of UNESCO’s competence. You are saying to UNESCO today: “We helped  you launch this major global initiative in solar energy. Please use your intellectual leadership to come up with  similar initiatives to improve the quality of life for the less privileged”.
2.6 Zimbabwe’s investment in education is known to be beginning to pay national dividends. In your  dialogue with UNESCO, the Organization would benefit from knowing how you have succeeded in taking  education to village communities on such a large scale. UNESCO hopes that your visit today will strengthen the  bonds of cooperation that will provide a medium for renewed cooperation and solidarity. Mr President, UNESCO  is actively recruiting partners for its global campaign for a culture of peace, freedom and protection of human  dignity. UNESCO appreciates your cooperation in the globalization of peace, justice and freedom from hunger  and poverty. On behalf of the Executive Board, I wish to assure you again that we look at your presence here  today as a privilege and honour. Thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board. I should now like to invite the Director-General of  UNESCO to take the floor.
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Your Excellency President Mugabe, First Lady of Zimbabwe, Ministers and friends, distinguished  Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a privilege to welcome you again to UNESCO House. I  should say, “welcome you back to UNESCO House”, for you addressed our Organization here at Headquarters
10 years ago. At that time, you were in our host country, France, to attend the bicentenary celebrations of the
1789 French Revolution. At that time, Zimbabwe was playing a leadership role in the struggle against apartheid  as one the front-line States. When, Sir, you last came here, we were about to experience the events that led to the  fall of the Berlin wall. Now, 10 years later, we must reflect seriously on what has been done in the decade since  those extremely important historical events.
4.2 Today, Mr President, you do us the honour of visiting our Organization at another historic moment - on  the eve of the new century and millennium, when all our thoughts, hopes and fears are turned towards the future.
129   And today you come from a region whose transformation has been remarkable. The term “front-line States” has -  happily - lost its meaning. Southern Africa has become more integrated than we could ever have dreamed
10 years ago and I know how much that means to you personally as a freedom fighter, as a mediator and as a  Pan-Africanist. You were one of the founders of “SADEC” (SADC), the Southern African Development  Community, and today you continue to work actively in that important regional organization as the President of  its organ of defence and security.
4.3 Mr President, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen, today the front line against racial  apartheid is a thing of the past. But social apartheid has to be defeated now. Yes, you are still waging battles on  the front lines of other struggles. You are on the front line of the battle against AIDS in your country and I  congratulate you on your government’s announcement of a 3% AIDS levy to fund AIDS-related programmes. I  hope that the world will realize the importance of this measure you have adopted. We are today in a situation in  which we must get to the roots of this pandemic: we cannot spend 800 billions on armaments and then tell the  victims of AIDS in the developing world: “Sorry, the treatment is too expensive”. In far too many parts of Africa  today and in spite of many development programmes, the poor are getting poorer. You know - we know - that  endogenous development is the answer - the development of all citizens, women and men, the endogenous  development of your country. Without this, development cannot take off. And here again, I must congratulate you  on your active role in promoting endogenous development, better education, the capacity to exploit for  yourselves your natural resources, and in defending African interests at the level of world trade discussions.  African interests also need to be championed by the international community and particularly by the agencies of  the United Nations system. UNESCO has had an office in Harare for more than 10 years now. This subregional  office for education in southern Africa enables our Organization to carry out its activities in this field with all the  dynamism and impetus that close cooperation on the ground can bring. Our projects have a particular focus on  higher education but also cover basic education, AIDS awareness, technical training, environmental issues, solar  energy, human rights and democracy education.
4.4 Mr President, on this occasion it is not so much my intention to describe what UNESCO does in Africa  and in Zimbabwe, but to focus on what you, the President of Zimbabwe, have done and are doing for UNESCO. I  will not speak of what you did more than 10 years ago when I visited you for the first time and requested your  support and help to visit some of your neighbouring countries. Nor will I say how many times I have enjoyed and  benefited from your advice.
4.5 The role played by you as President of the World Solar Commission, a role already mentioned by the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, allowed a new approach to community development to take hold, one that  emphasizes the importance of renewable energy and the active participation of women in the development  process. You hosted the World Solar Summit in 1996, a landmark in thinking on energy issues. Today, solar  villages are springing up like mushrooms, and each time a new one appears it is a tribute to you. Zimbabwe, a  country endowed with wonderful cultural and natural heritage sites, has - under your leadership - played an  invaluable role in conservation and in raising young people’s awareness of the importance of their heritage. You  have also been an active supporter of UNESCO’s education initiatives, notably through MINEDAF and  COMEDAF. Your capital, Harare, has launched initiatives that earned its Mayor, Counsellor Solomon Chirume  Tawengwa, the UNESCO Mayors for Peace Prize last year. And - to bring us right up to the present - UNESCO’s  Executive Board has benefited from the expert chairmanship of Christopher Chetsanga who, as Chairperson of  the Board, has just introduced you. Indeed, Mr Chetsanga, this is a particularly important moment for you and for  all of us.
4.6 Mr President, when I welcome you to UNESCO House, I welcome you to your house, the house to  which you and your fellow Zimbabweans have contributed so much. Yours is a young country. But it is a long-  standing partner and old friend that we greet here today. You are very welcome, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. It is with particular pleasure that I now invite the President of the  Republic of Zimbabwe, Mr Robert G. Mugabe, to address the General Conference. Your Excellency, you have  the floor.
6.1 His Excellency Mr MUGABE, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe:  Your Excellency, Madam President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Professor Federico Mayor, honourable Ministers,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my most sincere appreciation for  having been invited to participate in the deliberations of this 30th session of the UNESCO General Conference.  Being invited to participate in and address a session of an organization which has been aptly christened “the  conscience of the international community” and one which is close to the hearts of the masses of Zimbabwe is
130   indeed a singular honour, not only for me but also for my country. I therefore feel particularly humbled by this  gesture.
6.2 Madam President, on behalf of the people of Zimbabwe, and indeed on my own behalf, I see this session  as the ideal occasion, coming as it does at the end of this millennium, on which to thank UNESCO for having  steadfastly stood by our people as we struggled against formidable odds to regain freedom, dignity and  nationhood for ourselves. It is for me a real honour and pleasure. We are now a free, proud and sovereign people,  and we salute UNESCO’s contribution to this achievement. We look forward to continued support from  UNESCO as we consolidate our achievements.
6.3 This session of the General Conference of UNESCO affords us an opportunity to look back and examine  whether we have lived up to our commitment made some 50 years ago, which was to build the defences of peace  in the minds of men. We should indeed take advantage of this important session to renew our commitment to this  ideal and make UNESCO more relevant, particularly given the millennium’s peculiar challenges. While the year
2000 has been declared the International Year for the Culture of Peace, we should go further than that and ensure  that the twenty-first century will mark the final transition from a culture of war, which is still dogging us up to  this day, to a culture of peace.
6.4 Madam President, this session is also very important because we are faced with the onerous task of  choosing a new Director-General to lead the Organization into the new millennium. The vision of this person as  well as his or her managerial and administrative skills will be indispensable for the achievement of UNESCO’s  lofty ideals in the new millennium. We commend the Executive Board of UNESCO for proposing His Excellency  Mr Koichiro Matsuura of Japan — his name sounds like a Shona name — as the candidate for the post of Director-  General. It is our hope that he will be unanimously elected by this General Conference. That mandate should  empower him to mobilize more resources to enable the Organization to respond more positively to the ever-  growing needs of Member States, especially those of developing countries.
6.5 Madam President, we applaud the creation by UNESCO of the Priority Africa Department, whose main  aim is to coordinate initiatives on Africa, both within UNESCO and with other United Nations organizations, and  to make UNESCO’s programmes more clearly visible and operational for Africa. While time does not allow us to  itemize the achievements of this appropriately focused Department, I take this opportunity to commend the  Director-General particularly for having lately instituted some pertinent administrative and financial  rearrangements which will enhance the effectiveness of the Department even further. It is our hope that the  General Conference will approve the Financial Regulations of the Priority Africa Special Account.
6.6 The developing world is always searching for international programmes that lend credence and support  to development initiatives. Against this background, we were heartened by UNESCO’s initiative, in broad  partnership with other United Nations Specialized Agencies, the European Commission, the International Energy  Agency, the United Nations Development Programme and concerned governmental and non-governmental  organizations, concerning the World Solar Summit Process. Given the crippling energy constraints faced by the  developing countries, the World Solar Programme, focusing on the promotion and utilization of renewable  energies for sustainable development, is not only timely but also extremely relevant and most appropriate.
6.7 As we are now embarking in earnest on the implementation of high priority national projects and global  projects of universal value envisaged in the World Solar Programme 1996-2005, I would be remiss if I did not  commend highly the Director-General of UNESCO not only for having stood steadfastly by the process thus far,  but also for having arranged the co-signing of documentation by other heads of agencies calling for greater use of  renewable energies. The Secretariat of the World Solar Commission should also be commended for having  organized a myriad of international conferences that have sought to engender greater use of renewable as well as  environment-friendly sources of energy. We are confident that all these measures will go a long way towards  ensuring effective implementation of the World Solar Programme.
6.8 Madam President, it behoves me to emphasize that the World Solar Programme and all its constituent  projects, including the Global Renewable Energy Education and Training Programme 1996-2005, will require  the unwavering commitment and concrete support of the international community. While many Member States  have committed themselves to the implementation of some projects, efforts at the regional and international  levels need to be stepped up with greater vigour. I cannot stress strongly enough the role of the entire  United Nations system in this regard. Of critical concern to most developing countries is the need for additional  resources to be made available, including through investment and the provision of technical expertise and  training, in order to make meaningful progress in the development and utilization of renewable energy  technologies. It is encouraging, therefore, that the World Solar Programme has finally found its way into the  programmes and budgets of some United Nations agencies, including UNESCO, and other multilateral agencies.
131   I would also like to express my gratitude to the Director-General of UNESCO for having taken action in  accordance with 29 C/Resolution 14 to include the World Solar Programme in the regular budget of UNESCO  and to transform it into an interdisciplinary programme. These measures will go a long way towards ensuring the  effective implementation of the World Solar Programme.
6.9 Madam President, we hail the Executive Board’s decision to include in the current session of the  General Conference an item on “The transatlantic slave trade and slavery: a crime against humanity”. This is a  very important issue to which we hope the General Conference will give serious consideration. The transatlantic  slave trade will remain a glaring example of man’s inhumanity to man. It is one of the greatest man-made  disasters to affect Africa. It led to an enormous loss of life and destroyed budding civilizations. It created some of  the negative racial attitudes which we still witness even to this day. While Africa can forgive, she cannot forget  this sad chapter in her history. UNESCO has thus taken a very important step by making this issue part of the  agenda of the General Conference. We earnestly hope that this Conference will lay bare the full spectrum of the  destructive consequences this practice has had on our continent.
6.10 I now wish to revert to my earlier allusion to the culture of peace. A culture of peace can no longer be  seen as the absence, merely the absence, of conflict between States. It is above all a question of values, attitudes  and individual and collective behaviour that will ultimately create the spirit of peace, tolerance and democracy.  UNESCO must be commended for its efforts to build and strengthen this idea, which has become a guiding  beacon for the entire United Nations system. We are concerned that the new millennium may not successfully  mark the transition from the prevailing culture of war to a culture of peace should the glaring asymmetries  between rich and poor nations, as well as between the rich and the poor within nations, persist. It is not only sad  but totally unacceptable that despite our serious and concerted efforts to better ourselves, we in the developing  countries continue to suffer declining official development assistance, declining terms of trade, a resurgence of  protectionism on the part of the developed world, and a ballooning and excruciating foreign debt burden.  External resource flows into our African continent have largely been in the form of official development  assistance, ODA. It is sad, therefore, to note that this assistance fell from US $14.2 billion in 1992, to  US $12.8 billion in 1996, and continues to decline progressively to this very day. While the United Nations  General Assembly set, in 1974, an ODA target of 0.7% of the GNP of donor countries, a mere 0.25% has on  average been made available. The net effect of all these developments is that ODA has fallen far short of the  US $30 billion per year which some economists estimate is necessary for the eradication of poverty in Africa.
6.11 Alongside these sad developments, Madam President, is Africa’s increasing debt burden. While we  welcome relief measures like the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, we observe that these are  not only inadequate in themselves, but are also coming in rather too late. The ultimate effective solution lies in  the summary cancellation of this debt. Indeed, we are concerned that, should Africa enter the new millennium  with this crippling debt burden, the prospects for peace and development will also continue to be elusive. Such  patterns of economic growth, which perpetuate existing inequalities, are neither sustainable nor worth sustaining.  These asymmetries at a global and national level, which lead not only to poverty and exclusion but also to  inhuman conditions of life, are, as a UNESCO report says, the origin of the conflicts which haunt many parts of  the globe today. A recently released report by the United Nations shows that the assets of the three richest  families in the world now exceed the combined gross national products of all the least developed countries and  that if the world’s 200 richest persons each donated only 1 per cent of his or her wealth per year, they could  ensure access to primary education for every child in the world. If this is the kind of world in which we live  today, can we seriously hope for a transition from a culture of war to a culture of peace? Can we hope to build  the defences of peace in the minds of women and men who are poor, uneducated and hungry? Can we teach them  the values of democracy when they lack the basic needs which are taken for granted by their counterparts in the  developed world and by a very small minority in their own countries?
6.12 Africa has been responding to the multifarious challenges facing it on the eve of the third millennium.  Thus, for instance, subregional cooperation arrangements have been put in place, in line with the continent’s  Lagos Plan of Action. These subregional arrangements are the building blocks for the envisaged African  Economic Community which we now expect to attain by the year 2030 — and will comprise the Maghreb Union,  the Economic Community of West African States, the Inter-Governmental Authority for Development, the  Common Market for East and Central Africa and the Southern African Development Community. It is our earnest  hope that the Community that will emerge by 2030 will be sufficiently buoyant to enable our continent to  confront successfully the risk of marginalization that the process of globalization poses.
6.13 Further, Madam President, we have also carried out positive and forward-looking initiatives in our  continent’s efforts towards the prevention and management of conflicts. It was in this spirit, therefore, that we set  up, at the continental level, the Organization of African Unity’s Mechanism for the Prevention, Management and  Resolution of Conflicts and, at the subregional level, the Southern African Development Community’s Organ on  Politics, Defence and Security. Zimbabwe is greatly honoured to be the current chair of this subregional entity. In
132   addition, Zimbabwe also hosts the Regional Centre for Peacekeeping Studies. It is also important to note that at  the last Organization of African Unity Summit in Algiers, the Heads of State and Government reaffirmed the  principle of democracy and took a decision that future governments that come into power through military means  should never be recognized and will not be recognized by the Organization and its Member States.
6.14 Madam President, in the sphere of education, a direct concern of UNESCO, a Summit Meeting of the  Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity, which was held in Yaoundé, Cameroon, in  June 1996, instructed our Ministers of Education in Africa to work out a Draft Programme for the Decade of  Education in Africa (1997-2006). Following a related meeting in South Africa in October 1997, UNESCO  subsequently organized a meeting of these Ministers in Zimbabwe in March of this year, at which the relevant  programme of action was adopted. Let me take this opportunity to thank Mr Mayor, the Director-General, for  ensuring that we secured the requisite support from UNESCO which made the Ministerial Conference the great  success that it was. In my own country, Madam President, we sought to minimize conflict-generating  asymmetries by legislation making education the right of every child, whereas it was the opposite that obtained  prior to our attainment of independence. We are now reaping positive benefits from this deliberate government  policy as our country now boasts one of the highest literacy rates on our continent. This has also rewarded us  with one of the most highly educated labour forces in Africa, an attribute that has been highly welcome to many  an investor in our country.
6.15 Currently, Madam President, my country is trying to redress the imbalances of the colonial legacy and is  in the process of deliberately seeking through economic empowerment to promote the role of the indigenous  population in our economy, with a view to reducing further conflict-stoking asymmetries among the citizens of  our country. To ensure that this policy measure brings concrete results, we have put relevant legislation in place.  In like manner, Madam President, we have embarked on a land redistribution exercise at the end of which we  hope to have a more equitable distribution of land. This is a vital prerequisite not only for the greater  development of our country, but indeed for the attainment of the culture of peace that we are all yearning for,  since one of the principal grievances that fuelled the liberation struggle was the seizure of the land and the  consequent inequitable distribution of it.
6.16 We are currently strengthening our developmental efforts with one massive exercise to usher in a locally  produced national Constitution, which would ipso facto be more sensitive to the wishes and aspirations of all our  citizens. The distinguished delegates herein gathered may recall that my country has hitherto been governed  under the Lancaster House Constitution, which was virtually imposed on us at the end of our liberation struggle.  We did not approve of much of that Constitution, but only accepted it as a transitional measure and so we are  now confidently formulating a fresh and more democratic peoples’ Constitution that we shall all as a nation be  able to identify with proudly as a product in the new millennium. I must add that most of our gains so far risk  suffering crippling reversals as the HIV/AIDS pandemic wreaks havoc on our African continent. Our economies  are losing the very educated and skilled labour force that we are striving to produce, and this is having a negative  ripple effect on our development. While concerted measures are being put in place to check the spread of this  hitherto irreversible disease, we are handicapped in our efforts by the lack of adequate financial and human  resources. I therefore wish to take this opportunity to appeal to the international community for resources to help  us in the developing world to fight with success and restore the reliability of our nations.
6.17 Madam President, I wish to end my address by paying a befitting tribute to the Director-General,  Federico Mayor. Over the past 12 years, we have watched Professor Mayor fearlessly and indeed selflessly  labour for the realization of UNESCO’s mission. He has demonstrated profound understanding and appreciation  of the plight of those who are marginalized on our planet and has proceeded to give a voice to this silent group  among us. He has earned criticism from selfish quarters for supporting just causes which included the anti-racist  liberation struggles in our part of the world, thus displaying courage and conviction where others were not  prepared to stand up and be counted. We trust that the foundations that he has laid will inspire his successor to  boldly bring to fruition, among other things, all the programmes both new and old aimed at improving the lives of  the poor and those are the people who are marginalized on our planet.
6.18 On behalf of most of us in the developing world, certainly on behalf of the people of Zimbabwe and on  my own behalf, I congratulate Professor Federico Mayor for a job well done. Let me assure him that his 12 years  as Director-General at UNESCO have left an indelible mark on the Organization that he has led with such  admirable skill, wisdom and vision. We therefore wish him well in his future endeavours and wherever he goes,  may he have our “fare-thee-well”. I thank you.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, Mr President, I thank you most warmly, I am sure on behalf of everybody in this  room. You certainly had a highly appreciative audience and we cherish your words of wisdom, your knowledge  and the information you have given us. We thank you most deeply for having come to our gathering.
7.2 I shall now suspend the meeting for a few minutes, but request delegates to remain seated and not leave  the room. Thank you.  (The meeting is suspended for a few minutes while the President of Zimbabwe leaves the room)  (Mr Beydoun, Lebanon, takes the chair)  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXK/IEHHE BOITPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, please return to your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, after these most interesting and  valuable remarks by His Excellency the President of Zimbabwe, Mr Mugabe, it is time to return to the work that we  have to do this morning. We shall now hear from heads of delegation. I begin by calling on the representative of  Ghana, Mr Harry Blavo, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Ghana to UNESCO. You have the floor, Sir.
9.1 Mr BLAVO (Ghana):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, my delegation and I bring you warm greetings from the Government and people of Ghana. Like  the speakers before me I wish to congratulate Ms Moserova on her election to the presidency of the 30th session  of the UNESCO General Conference. Judging by the able manner in which she has conducted the business of this  Conference so far, | have no doubt that, under her wise guidance, the 30th session of the UNESCO General  Conference will achieve great success.
9.2 Mr President, I wish to express Ghana’s deepest appreciation to the outgoing Director-General,  Dr Federico Mayor, for his dedicated service to UNESCO and for his unflinching support to the nation-building  efforts of the developing countries in this Organization. During his 12-year tenure of office, there has been  considerable improvement in the administration of the Organization and a notable contribution has been made  towards the realization of the objectives of UNESCO’s ideals. Within the last couple of years, UNESCO has  successfully organized three world conferences, on higher education, on science, and on technical and vocational  education. We also commend the Director-General for his initiative that resulted in the UNESCO Declaration on  the Culture of Peace, which was unanimously adopted on 13 September 1999 by the United Nations General  Assembly. My delegation also notes with appreciation that one of the fruits of his keen foresight led to the  UNESCO Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights that has enhanced awareness of the need for  ethical guidelines for scientific work, including cloning and other forms of genetic engineering.
9.3 Mr President, with respect to the Draft Programme and Budget for the 2000-2001 biennium, Ghana  associates itself with the other Member States in congratulating the Director-General and his staff for the  excellent work done. In a period during which a good number of countries and international organizations find  themselves in dire financial straits, UNESCO must focus more sharply on its mandate and strive to strengthen its  drive to attract more extrabudgetary resources for its programmes. That a determined attempt has been made in  this direction in document 30 C/5 is a clear affirmation of the efforts of UNESCO to find solutions to some of the  problems that confront the Organization as we move into a new year, a new century and a new millennium. The  document further attests to the fact that UNESCO has come to grips with the persistent problems of poverty
134   alleviation, illiteracy, lack of access to education, ignorance, exclusion, racism and environmental degradation.  The shift of emphasis in the document from plans to strategies reflects the dynamism of our Organization.
9.4 Mr President, Ghana welcomes UNESCO?s recent publication of the eight-volume General History of  Africa that has set Africa’s historical records straight. The warped and inaccurate presentations of the continent’s  past must now be discarded forever. It is our hope that the General History of Africa will progressively be  published in several languages to facilitate its use as a basic textbook on African history in educational  institutions in Africa and elsewhere.
9.5 Similarly, we applaud UNESCO?’s Slave Route project that has given rise to a heightened awareness  about the evils of slavery and the slave trade that for over four centuries were practised with careless abandon in  a triangle that linked Africa with Europe and the Americas. We also deplore the earlier versions of this macabre  trade in human beings across the Sahara and the Indian Ocean to the Arabian peninsula and beyond. It is  gratifying to note in this connection that, as a result of the sustained efforts of a lady parliamentarian from French  Guyana, Madam Christiane Taubira Delannon, the French National Assembly has formally declared slavery and  the slave trade a crime against humanity. We hope that this laudable French initiative will be emulated by other  parliaments across the world.
9.6 Mr President, my delegation supports the contribution that UNESCO continues to make to building  peace within and among States by working to change behavioural patterns that give rise to exclusion and  discrimination based on gender, religion, language and race. We also urge UNESCO to continue its efforts to  shape values, to promote cultural and linguistic pluralism and dialogue among civilizations and to prompt the  institutional changes needed to eradicate the deep-seated causes of violence. As you are well aware, Ghana —  alongside other developing countries — has gained international recognition in the area of peacekeeping for its  involvement in international efforts to find solutions to the conflicts that plague a number of countries inside and  outside Africa.
9.7 These activities have, however, put additional strain on the already limited national budget. There is  therefore a need for greater international assistance to help reduce the incidence of conflicts and mitigate the  concomitant human suffering. As a first step, the international community should take swift action to redress the  perceived imbalance in the allocation of human and material resources for peacekeeping efforts, which now tends  to favour conflict spots in some geographical areas rather that others.
9.8 Ghana appreciates UNESCO's efforts in support of science and technology education in Africa through  the establishment of UNESCO Chairs at African universities to promote centres of excellence. However, greater  support must be given to the publication and dissemination of research findings from African universities under  the UNESCO University-Industry-Science Partnership (UNISPAR) programme. There is also the need for  UNESCO to help African countries to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the recent advances in  information technology.
9.9 We wish to commend UNESCO for encouraging Member States, especially those in our part of the  world, to develop strategies for clean and sustainable technologies based on renewable energy sources. There is,  however, a need for greater awareness about solar energy in developing countries under the World Solar  Programme canvassed by UNESCO.
9.10 Mr President, this year, the world has witnessed a series of natural disasters in the form of hurricanes  and earthquakes. These disasters have taken a heavy toll on human and material resources in Caribbean countries,  in North and South Korea, in some southern states of the United States of America, in Turkey, Greece and  Taiwan. Ghana extends its condolences to the governments and bereaved families in the affected countries. In  order to help reduce the incidence of human suffering, the advanced countries need to show greater solidarity and  share their expertise in hurricane and earthquake forecasting and warning systems with developing countries like  Ghana, which are located in flood and earthquake-prone zones.
9.11 Finally, Mr President, as the world marches on to the twenty-first century, it is the wish of Ghana that  we, the Member States of UNESCO, resolve to be more committed to our Declaration on the Culture of Peace  and to the fine ideals of UNESCO as we work for more sustainable development through good governance,  tolerance and respect for cultural diversity in an increasingly globalized environment. I thank you for your  attention.
135   : vel \»  Enr pages Sed SUI sand! Tala) oY) LISN Auf AIS Je BAL (syle spd] 1S  Ligues à SRI 555 ¢ So
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank Mr Harry Blavo for his thoughtful remarks. I now give the floor to Her Royal Highness, Princess  Norodom Buppha Devi, Minister of Culture of Cambodia.
11.1 S. A. R. la Princesse NORODOM BUPPHA DEVI (Cambodge) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames, Messieurs les membres du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Mesdemoiselles et Messieurs,  permettez-moi tout d'abord de féliciter la Présidente de la Conférence générale pour son élection. Au nom du  Royaume du Cambodge, au nom de S. M. le Roi Norodom Sihanouk, au nom de son gouvernement et en mon  nom personnel, je présente mes meilleures et cordiales salutations à l'éminente assemblée ici réunie. C'est pour  moi un grand honneur et un grand bonheur de pouvoir m'adresser à la 30e session de la Conférence générale de  l'UNESCO.
11.2 Qu'il me soit permis de rendre hommage à M. Federico Mayor pour le courage, la ténacité et la sagesse  dont il a su faire preuve tout au long de son mandat au sein de l'UNESCO afin de donner à l'Organisation une  impulsion nouvelle indispensable à sa survie. Le Royaume du Cambodge voit en cet homme de dialogue et ce  grand humaniste plus qu'un protecteur des arts : un ami.
11.3 Monsieur le Président, dans un pays déstructuré et éclaté tel que le mien qui a connu un véritable  dépérissement de ses racines ancestrales, la culture nationale doit affirmer son identité en tant que fer de lance de  la régénération des valeurs humaines. Faire abstraction de cette dimension culturelle, c'est priver le Cambodge de  son âme, lui interdire de renouer avec son passé millénaire, lui ôter purement et simplement sa raison d'être. Dès  lors, soucieux de respecter la réalité socioculturelle et la tradition, nous jugeons indispensable toute action visant  à préserver l'identité de notre pays afin de restaurer la mémoire collective par le biais de la culture et de  l'éducation. Sur cette base, nous devons donc faire de l'éducation la priorité des priorités, en ce sens que, sans  elle, il n'y a pas d'avenir possible et il ne saurait y avoir de développement endogène. En effet, pour nous,  l'éducation ne consiste pas seulement à apprendre à lire ou à écrire, elle consiste également et surtout à perpétuer  la connaissance en tant que véhicule du savoir. En définitive, il n'y a pas de culture sans éducation.
11.4 Nous nous félicitons de l'étroite collaboration, appréciable et fructueuse, qui s'est établie entre le  Royaume du Cambodge et l'UNESCO dans les différents domaines. Et, dans cette optique, nous n'hésiterons pas  à poursuivre et intensifier notre effort. Au nom du gouvernement du Royaume du Cambodge, je renouvelle  l'assurance de notre plus profonde gratitude à la prestigieuse maison qu'est l'UNESCO.
11.5 Monsieur le Président, le Royaume du Cambodge, victime de destructions de toutes sortes, et sortant  d'une longue guerre, a besoin de panser ses plaies et attache une très grande importance à la préservation de son  patrimoine tant matériel qu'immatériel pour les générations à venir.
11.6 Le peuple cambodgien ose espérer que l'UNESCO intensifiera, dans la mesure du possible, sa  contribution à la satisfaction des besoins éducatifs de base, condition d'un monde de compréhension et de respect  mutuel.
11.7 De même, nous considérons comme essentielle la créativité artistique, source de toute diversité, dans la  mesure où elle peut être un moteur pour le développement socio-économique. Revitaliser les arts cambodgiens  est une nécessité impérieuse, en ce sens que la danse, le théâtre, la musique, l'artisanat, la peinture, la sculpture  ou l'art cinématographique sont des sources potentielles de progrès.
11.8 Cependant, nous sommes pleinement conscients que nous n'atteindrons nos buts que si notre conduite  nous est dictée par l'intérêt supérieur de la nation.
11.9 Je saisis cette occasion privilégiée pour assurer respectueusement LL. MM. le Roi Preah Bat Samdech  Preah Norodom Sihanouk et la Reine Samdech Preah Reach Akka Mohesey Norodom Monineath Sihanouk du  Cambodge de la fidélité, de la reconnaissance et de l'affection que leur voue le peuple khmer pour leur rôle  éminent dans le processus de développement d'une culture de la paix au Cambodge.
11.10  Permettez-moi d'adresser à la Conférence générale mes voeux fervents de succès et de pleine réussite. Je  vous remercie de votre attention.
2 Jb oY LS Gall lS le ao Bsr pags Sed SII sand] Talal 1S  (ail 9 SIs sd! Le 3 dl
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank Her Royal Highness, Princess Norodom Buppha Devi, for her most interesting remarks. I now  give the floor to the Minister of Education of Seychelles, Mr Danny Faure.
13.1 Mr FAURE (Seychelles):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Ministers, Excellencies,  ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all present my congratulations to Ms Moserovd on her election to the  important function of presiding over this 30th session of the General Conference of our Organization and to wish  her success in her post.
13.2 The 30th session of the General Conference gives us the opportunity to renew our shared commitment to  the ideals of UNESCO and to the programmes that will help to bring these ideals closer to realization. It also  provides an opportunity to highlight areas where we need the support of UNESCO and other members of this big  international family united by bonds of common interest and solidarity.
13.3 I am happy to note that UNESCO’s medium-term strategies and the programmes which are gradually  being reshaped within its framework have a progressive orientation, reaffirming education as the main field of  action of the Organization.
13.4 It was 20 years ago this year, Mr President, that, under the guiding principles of “education for all,  education for life and education for personal and national development”, my country carried out a major reform  of the education system that we had inherited from colonial times. In 1979, we were inspired by our newly  attained sovereignty and impatient to try and correct the injustices of the past and to give opportunities for a  better education and a better life to all our people. Accordingly, with the advice and support of UNESCO, we  instituted nine years of free and compulsory education in similarly resourced district schools, reformed and  strengthened the adult literacy programme and increased the venues overseas to which our young people and  other persons could go for higher education. Several other efforts in education were made in the following years  and we are proud of the successes that we have achieved. We are fully aware, though, that more needs to be done  and that in a dynamic world there are always new challenges.
13.5 That is why we are now engaged in looking again at the system and carrying out certain changes to it.  The main ones are concerned with improvements to early childhood education, monitoring the quality of  education, strengthening technical and vocational education in secondary schools, introducing information and  communication technologies into the curriculum, reforming teacher education to make it a key factor in the  improvement of learning, revitalizing and expanding adult learning, and improving decision-making and the  management of education. All these are areas that feature prominently in UNESCO?s programme and budget and  they receive our full support. I should like to express support, in particular, for two relatively new institutions that  I believe will be of great assistance to countries such as Seychelles. These are the UNESCO International  Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa and the UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education.
13.6 Mr President, the provision of higher education is a matter of great concern to my country. As a small  island State, with limited financial and human resources, and a population of only 80,000, we have no delusions  as to the difficulties that providing university education in the country would entail. At the same time our  continued viability as a small nation State depends on the development of our human resources to the highest  level, given the challenges of the times — challenges that spring both from the changing nature of the world  economic system and the deteriorating physical environment. The new information and communications  technologies may provide some answers to reducing the high, even prohibitive cost of higher education overseas.  However, the matter of higher education provision as a whole is one that we wish to consider in depth, with the  assistance of UNESCO and other partners.
13.7 Mr President, we are happy with Major Programme II in general, but I wish to make special mention of  our support for its second part — Sciences, environment and socio-economic development. In recent years my  country has experienced the extremes of too much and too little rainfall and severe damage to coral reefs through  bleaching brought about by changes in temperature, whilst the spread of harmful algae is a risk of which all  tropical marine countries must be wary. Seychelles is a country that is sensitive to any threat to the natural  environment. That is because our main industries — tourism and fisheries — depend on it; but also because of its  importance to our survival and our very way of life and culture. We have devoted close to half of our total land
137   area to natural parks. We have implemented several measures for conservation, including banning the  exploitation of sea turtles which had traditionally been a favourite source of food and the basis of a handicrafts  industry. And we try to integrate the legitimate development needs of our population within a general practice of  respect and care for the environment. We are, therefore, fully in tune with UNESCO?’s programmes on the  environment and development and the contribution of the sciences in that area.
13.8 In the programme on cultural development, my country appreciates the emphasis placed on the  preservation and revitalization of the intangible heritage, the promotion and protection of creativity and the  promotion of craftwork and design. We particularly welcome the attention paid to the involvement of youth in  these main lines of action. The promotion of genuine cultural tourism of benefit to local communities and the  promotion of books and cultural industries are other areas that we support.
13.9 Mr President, at the very moment that we are participating in this General Conference, my country is  hosting the 14th annual Kreol Festival. This week-long celebration of Kreol culture and language brings together,  in Seychelles, people from the Creole countries of the Indian Ocean, the Caribbean and the Creole Diaspora. I am  glad to say that the support UNESCO gave to the Kreol Festival in the past has helped it to grow and has  facilitated exchanges between artists, linguists, writers, thinkers and young people of the Creole world. I have no  doubt that such exchanges are today bearing fruit in the revitalization and strengthening of the culture of  societies, which, although separated by physical distance, are discovering affinities with each other, affinities that  are leading to a sense of solidarity and mutual encouragement to use the power of culture for development.
13.10 We support the various lines of action under the programme “Bridging the communication and  information gap” and look forward to our involvement in certain of its activities. I would also like to mention our  appreciation of IPDC’s assistance in the past.
13.11 Mr President, whilst my country fully supports UNESCO’s continued commitment to the African  continent and to increased collaboration with the Organization of African Unity, I should also like to record our  appreciation for the initiative taken earlier this year in organizing the Forum 2000 for the Indian Ocean island  States. The Forum has enabled UNESCO to gain a much better understanding of the overall evolving relationship  between the Organization and the Indian Ocean Commission and more particularly of the needs, interests and  priorities of the Indian Ocean island States. It has a promising beginning. I trust that some, if not all, of the  recommendations of the Forum will be realized in a not too distant future and that cooperation between  UNESCO, the island States and the Indian Ocean Commission will increase.
13.12 Before I end, Mr President, let me say that I find it most fitting that, at the point when we are about to  start a new century and millennium, UNESCO is seizing the symbolic appeal of the times to invite people all over  the world to reflect on the necessity for a culture of peace and to take personal action to promote it. I do believe  that people the world over are not insensitive to this appeal which, as we know, is backed up by concrete projects  concerning education for a culture of peace.
13.13 I wish to record my country’s thanks and sincere appreciation to the outgoing Director-General for his  tireless work in the cause of what UNESCO stands for. May I convey to him our best wishes in his new  undertakings. I present our congratulations to the incoming Director-General and wish him success in the  important tasks that lie ahead. And finally, allow me once more, to congratulate Ms Moserov4 on her election as  President and to wish her “bon courage” and success in her work. Thank you very much.  oS Ag
3 BE pslally Toll pis Jd oY LS) Tall AIS Jo Lane 559 us) sd [SE
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of Seychelles for his valuable remarks. I now give the floor to the  Minister for Education, Science and Culture of Iceland, Mr Bjorn Bjarnason.
15.1 Mr BJARNASON (Iceland):  Mr President, Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me extend my congratulations to  our newly elected President. The office of the President of the General Conference carries great weight and  influence, not only during the General Conference but also in the two subsequent years. We therefore wish our  President well in her endeavours.
15.2 Mr President, earlier this month the Icelandic Government, in cooperation with the Nordic Council of  Ministers and the United States Government, and with the participation of the First Lady, Ms Hillary Rodham  Clinton, held an International Conference on Women and Democracy at the Dawn of the New Millennium. Most  of the participants were from the Baltic States, Russia and the United States, as well as from the Nordic countries.  The important discussions at the conference confirmed the great changes in the economic and social position of  women.
15.3 Women are very active in education and cultural affairs in Iceland. Without their participation the  Icelandic school system would be virtually inoperable owing to a lack of teachers. This is especially true of  nursery and primary schools, where the great majority of teachers are women. More women than men now attend  the University of Iceland. Women are also at the forefront of Icelandic culture: one could say they are the pillar  of the Icelandic music scene, being for example, very prominent in the Icelandic Symphony Orchestra. In the  sciences, women are also playing an ever greater part. I want to emphasize these facts because women will  become much more active in carrying out the important tasks that are UNESCO’s responsibility. We must also  realise that the education of women and respect for women’s work is the most sensible way to improve the lot of  all the nations of the world. In this respect, it is very important that we increase our efforts to combat illiteracy  under the auspices of UNESCO. To this end, the programme “Educating for a sustainable future” is of great  importance.
15.4 In the coming century, UNESCO?s organization and operations need to take increased account of these  facts. UNESCO must not only adapt to changed circumstances due to developments in international relations  between States, but must also take into account social changes within its Member States and those factors that  have the greatest bearing on their political affairs. Looking at UNESCQO’s internal operations, I am, for example,  of the opinion that the methods employed in selecting Members of the Executive Board are not in accordance  with modern standards. The selection process is too complex, costly and cumbersome, given the interests of the  many Member States who vary in both wealth and population.
15.5 Mr President, we live in a time of constant change. Those who fail to make use of the opportunities  provided by these changes will stagnate, and are in real danger of being left by the wayside. In times of change it  is also important to preserve the best of the past. UNESCO has an important role to play in this respect. Iceland  declares strong support for the “Memory of the World” programme. There is a similar need to preserve the  cultural heritage that is less visible than buildings or other tangible artefacts. For nations determined to speak  their own language, the struggle to preserve it will never end. But the advent of information technology is forcing  languages to adapt to new demands. It is not enough to fight for their right to be used in direct human  communication; it is now necessary to safeguard their rights in a world of computers and other communications  equipment. We have reached an agreement with the powerful computer company, Microsoft, to safeguard the  position of the Icelandic language in the company’s programming. It is also vitally important to ensure that  characters peculiar to individual languages are employed by font designers and producers. The Icelandic  Government is planning an initiative to give even greater protection to the position of Icelandic in the virtual  reality of computers. There is widespread interest in international cooperation regarding projects of this kind. I  believe UNESCO is well suited to play a role in this field, since respect for languages is of great importance in  the promotion of cultural diversity.
15.6 The World Book and Copyright Day plays an important part in making UNESCO visible to Icelanders.  The Organization should also look for other events that could publicize the importance of its work. It would, for  example, be fitting for UNESCO to be more active in promoting creative art: initiating programmes with the  cooperation of artists would enhance UNESCOQO’s visibility and open up new avenues.
15.7 Lifelong Learning Day was held in Iceland this autumn to draw attention to the value of lifelong learning  and the opportunities available in this field. We intend to organize an annual event on lifelong learning, in  accordance with the UNESCO Declaration on Adult Learning.
15.8 Last year Iceland hosted a study group from UNESCO?s International Institute for Educational Planning.  We took great pleasure in acquainting them with our system of education, which has been thoroughly overhauled  in recent years. This summer saw the introduction of new curricula for nursery schools, as well as for primary and  secondary schools, where great emphasis is placed on the use of information technology. I have put forward the  suggestion that all secondary school students should get their own laptop computer — with public support if  necessary — since computers are fast becoming an essential part of their school equipment.
15.9 Iceland pins great hopes in the work of the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge  and Technology. Ethical questions in science and technology are steadily increasing in urgency and the
139   international community must join in establishing guidelines to prevent the unethical exploitation of technology  while not restricting its development, for example in medicine.
15.10 Mr President, the time has come to bid farewell to Mr Federico Mayor, who will soon be relinquishing  the post of Director-General of our Organization. I would like to thank him for the pleasure of working with him  the roughly four years that I have served as Minister for Education, Science and Culture. I particularly enjoyed  his visit to Iceland. I wish him well and hope that his great energy and interest may continue to be of service to all  humanity. I also wish our incoming Director-General great success. It will not be easy for anyone to follow in  Mr Mayor’s footsteps. UNESCO needs a Director-General who can provide strong leadership and take the  Organization into new fields in the new millennium. We will not be successful unless we emphasize the factors  that lie at the root of all UNESCO?’s work: education, culture and science. If these factors are allowed to play a  greater part in the lives of all mankind, the world will become a better place. Thank you.  IRN VY  à sSuiell Libel Lal dud, codogl wud ye Sagal) oY LSI lain] 159 uy sl) 1,53  Jabs yes
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of Iceland. I now give the floor to Ms Margaret Austin, Chairperson of  the New Zealand National Commission for UNESCO.
17.1 Ms AUSTIN (New Zealand):  E TE WHARE E TU NEI TENA KOE,  E NGA IWI, E NGA KARANGATANGA MAHA O NGA HAU E  WHA,  TENEI TE MIHI ATU KI A KAUTOU KATOA  I greet this house, all peoples, all voices, all the many nations from the four  winds, I greet you all.
17.2 Mr President, may I through you congratulate Madam President, a former Ambassador to New Zealand,  on her appointment and also say that it is a pleasure for me to address this Conference for the first time as the  Chair of the New Zealand National Commission.
17.3 New Zealand greets Mr Mayor in a special way at this General Conference. He has led UNESCO for
12 years and it is clear that during this time he has played a major role in restoring world confidence in the  Organization. We have reason to be grateful to him for steering the Organization with energy and enthusiasm and  for using his knowledge, particularly his scientific understanding, to good purpose. Perhaps in the future he will  revisit at leisure the wilderness areas of New Zealand which I understand impressed him when he visited the  South West World Heritage Site in New Zealand, Te Wahi Pounamu. We wish him well for the future in  whatever he undertakes.
17.4 Now it is a pleasure to welcome and congratulate Mr Matsuura, the first Director-General designate  from the Asia-Pacific region and to say that New Zealand is ready and willing to assist in whatever way we can as  we respond to the challenges of the future and the new millennium.
17.5 New Zealand has some comments and observations to make on the challenges which lie ahead for the  Organization.
17.6 First, we endorse the vision of the founders of UNESCO when they set out their intention to contribute  to lasting peace and security in the world by promoting cooperation among nations through education, science,  culture and communication. We fully support as the highest priority for UNESCO the promotion of basic  education and literacy and lifelong education for all. The challenge is to achieve these goals for all peoples in the  efforts to raise living standards, health and opportunity for citizens.
17.7 In acknowledging this we remind delegates of the special needs of the Asia-Pacific region where five of  the world’s most populous nations are found. We urge that greater attention be paid to meeting these needs.
17.8 New Zealand also supports emphasis on indigenous cultures. We are a multicultural nation with a  bicultural heritage dating from the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi with Maori in 1840. The oral traditions are  very important to Maori and, indeed, to all the cultures of the Pacific subregion. We believe the Pacific is at the
140   forefront in recognizing indigenous cultures and in promoting diversity of language and culture through music,  chant, artefacts and oral history. We are strong supporters of UNESCO’s programmes to promote linguistic  diversity and the preservation of both the tangible and the intangible cultural heritage of nations. These are  important aspects of the Focus on the Pacific Plan of Action.
17.9 The second challenge stems from a concern to accelerate reform of the Organization and in particular  adherence to the agreed frameworks for action, setting goals, expectations, monitory policy implementation,  reporting and accountability for outcomes. We are convinced that adherence to such a reform process is essential  to success and we make no apology for advocating what we have put in place in New Zealand through our public  sector reforms. They are the essence of sound and effective management for any Organization. New Zealand  would like to return to this forum in 2001 to applaud the introduction of well-structured recruitment policies,  professional development strategies, concentration on outcomes and overall accountability for each section of the  agenda under consideration. We note with satisfaction and endorse this emphasis in the recommendations of the  Executive Board.
17.10 TI detect, even in the short time I have been involved with the New Zealand National Commission,  concern about the dissipation of resources over too many programmes, proliferation of large-scale conferences  and meetings and new advisory bodies, along with departures from agreed programmes and budgetary allocation.  Respect for the integrity of the Organization is impaired under such circumstances.
17.11 The third issue arises out of UNESCO’s unique position as the intellectual and ethical arm of the United  Nations. As such, it must be visible and communicate its effectiveness worldwide, identifying in so doing its own  particular comparative advantage within the United Nations system as a whole. New Zealand is prepared to  continue to adhere to the agreed agendas and to participate fully in the programmes domestically, regionally and  internationally.
17.12 This Conference marks the end of New Zealand’s four-year term on the Executive Board. I am aware  that Russell Marshall has already delivered his valedictory and answered his own questions on his effectiveness  as the Chair of the Finance and Administrative Commission. The New Zealand Commission is proud of his  achievements. In our book he is a giant totara who has contributed much to world peace and development of  peoples.
17.13 As a member of the Pacific subregion, New Zealand is delighted to welcome Palau and the Federated  States of Micronesia to UNESCO. We want to record that this is the first time all 16 independent States of the  Pacific have been represented in this forum. We look forward to French Polynesia and New Caledonia eventually  joining this club of nations.
17.14 In September the United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan referred to the economic and ecological  fragility and vulnerability of small island nations at the General Assembly. He dubbed this “trouble in paradise”.  Two years ago, at the last General Conference, the Deputy Prime Minister of Tonga chaired the Focus on the  Pacific Forum, which led to the establishment of the Focus on the Pacific initiative. We are pleased to see this  initiative reflected in the programme and budget for the coming biennium. The Pacific Member States are  introducing a draft resolution at this Conference which seeks to maintain the momentum of this initiative during  the coming biennium and beyond.
17.15 We applaud Edna Tait’s leadership of the UNESCO Office for the Pacific States in Apia. She brings  outstanding skills to the position and is well known in New Zealand for her courage in introducing and leading  new ventures, particularly in education and development. In support of Kofi Annan’s declaration it must be said  that Edna needs further professional support in the areas of science, social science and information and  communication technology, as well as the necessary budgetary resources to ensure that the Apia Office is able to  implement the Focus on the Pacific Plan of Action.
17.16 At the same time as we advocate for Asia and the Pacific, New Zealand also endorses UNESCO's  concentration on Africa, where it is possible to make an enormous difference to the lives of people.
17.17 New Zealand has been a strong supporter of decentralization. We believe that the expertise and skills  within National Commissions could be used more effectively in this process.
17.18 In conclusion, we acknowledge the difficulties that a zero nominal growth budget will create, but stress  that New Zealand’s experience with public sector reform has convinced us that discipline within organizations  and adherence to budgets are essential to the achievement of desired outcomes and for the good health of an  organization. Thank you, Mr President.
141   sped! cmgsSI 5 JUIN palailly LV 253 Jad oF) AISI ilies aby duty Sand 1S
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of New Zealand. I now give the floor to the Minister of Education and  Higher Education of Kuwait, Mr Youssef Hamad Ibrahim.  (Stl) peal Yl aed! NA  BALAI pla pall sud! al pula) uy aed! COS J) sd] pun JI Ga JI AD pu  layla br Led Bigs coll ssl dus, JI 38H10, ply pss > San] cag3gll slasly slug,  dl Gale $Supmad sald! Lda sl doll! sega 21 Sab do dl; sl, ¢8 yuaSII dagd! 53  $9 ey Lo Jos «diss cs 5 dossæ)| fl, Sade dl Lidl end! gêlse © RIV) WAY 93D039 pli  BILAN Grass dos al Go du  Bula! Bans 0585 of BILAN Leake lay sed «aol sins ca, pl oo sb gSuisadl dais of NAN  sy Lio] Sl Ladd $-Laid lg ll SWI shill aging 5 HI dy pled! aii! Gob 8 LLY  Soho Les al, slalall 5,55 pS cadliily Sal cy LY JUN oda Gui a 3S gull daliieg  pod eld Le oly WEY Calis J 3 oll 08 Jydall sggadl Slax Li, 5 SDS «oo lll
3590 col God cdy)léios 4S des pd le 21553 cÔsadll Oe LJ Lis! ete g BE Oe zr  Le Jl Lew obs Clay dy col bof esl slogly und] © dâ>s csboill © dûs 9 pd! © oll GS  > 59 GLS oo me Llano U Ly line of poll Ol Gal 48s 2D 5e an] sa  de Gs § lyse Say cosidl doy Gof wuss doo of Boldly whan! wis NAN  SI Lod! Sins sls OU Loser JolS I Sally BG ela Label @lawil! IS Ge Dll
3 Jans VI Lalgil Bl 355 laghiy plaid] Syne plo] § lag JV eb SY JAI  LV ods septs Ge slg samy gay EIEN LAY go cupdially Geel! pall > Lay]  Bols Vly USB Ils Zypay cOLSI Goi Taser oll Gass Lud Quel, 355 gS] mo ppglailly  ol yd! eas) Cayo GLEN Logs Bal Sao lo ba) UT consol UN Lebilugy JLOSI 5,55 ce  ed! ele gy Jails  Jeol BLSSIly po dll B55 Vue Lisp plall Jal 38150 Lo] plaid! oof JI Lelilug coy VASE  Cpalaidl Lal iY pS) BlaaŸl J Jgogll 5 Ue BT dis Jay MI Sind le oolasly call  bales 355 I Aol! wlaoladl GI | sil Gola] Llandl 5 polSII EE 555 3505 Lei LS  lass 30 ATR Usd ell dyle 59 all en 5 $ rll pl! Jl law idly =o en « an  indy 4b pall Je Lpoy>5 cys plaïals (ARABIA) dual BUI Leis das ass 14,0
8 Gales J] cit 5 Jal Ge cg sSIT Judy LBS] JS US Je opslais Cogus «DDI dés a.
142   Sasluo 0 Sol addy Uo pois sol 3 Ol Jad ces bin Bols wlopddl lyase NAN  Lys 520 baer pSanl ogsly plby Tio Go 4) GS ja Le dezlsey (Gal Sas 5 LA 853050
(19.1) Mr IBRAHIM (Kuwait) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I greet you  and bid you welcome. On behalf of Kuwait, I should like to congratulate the President of the General Conference  on her election to this high function. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Federico Mayor, the  Director-General, and his colleagues in various posts within UNESCO, for their admirable efforts on behalf of the  Organization and the outstanding accomplishments that have resulted from their judgement and leadership.
(19.2) UNESCO enjoys the world’s confidence and respect, and the world hopes that it will lead the march of  progress along the road of human development in pursuit of cultural, social and economic evolution until security  and prosperity are ultimately reached. UNESCO is the appropriate organization to bring those hopes to fruition  because it is a forum of thought and culture, where the finest thinkers and the flower of experience are to be found;  its conferences represent the results of unceasing efforts to promote human development in all parts of the world.  Its efforts to achieve cultural mixing and cultural transfer between peoples, to reach agreement on shared and  related values, and to promote what have come to be recognized as human rights, including the right to peace, the  right of development and the right to freedom of expression and opinion, all these efforts have led us to anticipate  even greater accomplishments on the part of our Organization at the dawn of the new century, which will, we hope,  usher in security and prosperity for humanity.
(19.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the State of Kuwait believes in UNESCO’s mission, and is playing its role in  fulfilling that mission through educational establishments and institutions of culture and reflection whose mutually  complementary efforts are helping to achieve higher standards of living with greater meaning and dignity. It is  sparing no effort to improve and develop its education system, and to that end it has adopted a strategy which  provides a framework extending through the first 25 years of the third millennium, a strategy worked out in  cooperation with UNESCO. That cooperative effort has resulted in the strengthening of Kuwait’s faith in the  principle of human rights, the free circulation of ideas, and the importance of taking advantage of the revolution in  information and communication technology, the effects of which are being reflected in every aspect of life. It is  also essential for human resource training to prepare individuals to acquire the necessary skills and to be capable of  moving from one field of work to another.
(19.4) One aspect of Kuwait’s approach to educational improvement has been the establishment of teacher  training centres as independent institutions affording opportunities and facilities for the upgrading of teachers to a  level that makes them effective as a means of attaining the major objectives of the country’s education strategy. In  addition, those centres strengthen the role of the private sector in the educational process, oriented as they are  towards the opening of private universities to provide top-flight education and the idea that institutions and  individuals in a position to do so have a duty to encourage excellence, foster talent, and establish private training  facilities.
(19.5) Kuwait is interested in the Arabia Plan programme, and is eager to proceed with and implement all three  parts of it. To that end, it proposes to cooperate to the utmost of its ability. It is noteworthy that Kuwait may be  among the States that have gone the furthest in giving effect to the right of reading for all, with cultural field  service, knowledge chains, books, both original and translated, a scientific encyclopaedia for children, and other  publications that are sold at less than cost. Furthermore, foreign scholars are invited to visit Kuwait, and generous  grants are available for that purpose. Kuwait intends to expand and enlarge on all these initiatives, which are  consistent with the Arabia Plan programme and will be useful in its implementation.
(19.6) Ladies and gentlemen, Kuwait has not forgotten and continues gratefully to acknowledge UNESCO’s  efforts in support of its righteous cause in its hour of trial. Once again, I salute you all, and I hope that our  Conference will be highly successful. Thank you, Mr President. Peace and the Mercy and Blessing of God be upon  you.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the head of the delegation of Kuwait for his thoughtful remarks. I now give the floor to Ms Aslaug  Haga, Minister of Cultural Affairs of Norway.
21.1 Ms HAGA (Norway):  Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, a new millennium is rapidly approaching,  encouraging reflection. It is clear that any country — rich or poor — which has ambitions to foster economic and  social development for its people, must concentrate its efforts on education, science and culture in the new  millennium. In other words, UNESCO’s mandate is as relevant as ever. Whether UNESCO as an organization  will be relevant in the new millennium is a question of its ability to respond adequately to global as well as local  challenges and expectations. I will return to the issue of reform at the end of my statement. Allow me, however,  just one brief remark in this context: it is up to the governments represented here in this room to make UNESCO  a relevant organization in the new millennium. Let us first of all agree to pick up that challenge and then go ahead  with the concrete work.
21.2 I would like to express my thanks to the Director-General for his strong commitment and dedication to  the mandate of this Organization.
21.3 Mr President, education for all is, and should continue to be, UNESCO?’s top priority. Particular  attention has to be given to girls and women; we know that by now. Education can free people from poverty and  help the individual to shape his or her own destiny. Education is the key to promoting peace. The defences of  peace must be constructed in the minds of each one of us, and that construction must be developed at all levels of  education: basic through higher education, formal as well as informal.
21.4 Mr President, let me mention one particular project, namely the Associated Schools Project (ASP),  which sensitizes young people to human rights, conflict prevention and resolution, and building democracy. It  teaches how to live with and enjoy cultural diversity, how to take care of our environment; the students learn  solidarity and sharing. On a small scale, the project embodies all UNESCO’s fields of competence. Norway will  promote and continue to support such frameworks through UNESCO - this is an excellent example of what we  are looking for. As delegates may know, my country also contributes to major educational programmes through  other United Nations organizations, the World Bank and bilaterally. We are concerned that these contributions  have maximum effect. That is why we continuously underline the need for close cooperation between all  agencies, particularly at the country level.
21.5 During the last decade we have seen changes in science and technology without precedent in history.  Two or three sessions of the General Conference ago, few of us had any knowledge about the Internet. Today,  although unequally distributed around the globe, it has become part of the daily life of many. The impact of  technological development for the educational sector, in poor as well as in rich countries, should be a priority  area for UNESCO. This is a clear example of one field in which UNESCO has obvious comparative advantages.
21.6 Mr President, my government welcomes and encourages UNESCO’s renewed focus on cultural issues,  following the Stockholm Action Plan. Globalization allows cultural exchanges to increase both in quantity and  speed. This is positive. However, an obvious challenge to policy-makers is to promote cultural exchanges that  lead to greater understanding among nations, rather than creating stereotyped attitudes and global trends.  UNESCO provides the appropriate forum to discuss ways of sustaining local and national cultures in an  increasingly globalized world. We look forward to increased focus on these issues including proper follow-up of  the Action Plan adopted in Stockholm.
21.7 The scientific and technological developments over the last decades have strong social and human  implications and raise important ethical issues. UNESCO has taken a lead in this respect and should continue to  do so, in our view. Allow me to mention the establishment of COMEST, the World Commission on the Ethics of  Scientific Knowledge and Technology, whose first meeting Norway had the honour to host in Oslo last April. At  the World Conference on Science in Budapest a few months later, ethical issues were at the forefront. Burning  issues like the balance between industrialized and developing countries were discussed, as was the balance  between science and human rights. UNESCO has an obvious role in following up these very critical issues.
21.8 UNESCO’s National Commissions represent a unique structure and a tremendous resource. They bring  together artists, teachers, students, authors, journalists, bureaucrats and others both at national and international  level. Strong networks exist, and the potential for further development is great. Networks meet; they transfer  knowledge, help build solidarity and friendship among peoples. Thus, UNESCO is firmly established at the  grass-roots. Governments should further promote the role of and important work of the National Commissions.
21.9 Mr President, to conclude, Norway believes that UNESCO has spread its efforts and limited financial  resources too thinly over too many areas. Fragmentation leads to loss of impact. Improving the visibility of  UNESCO is closely linked to a better focus on UNESCO’s main tasks in the United Nations family. Priorities  must be clearly decided upon. UNESCO needs to adopt more efficient structures for decision-making and
144   management. Norway proposes reform because UNESCO concerns us. Norway has supported the Organization  since its beginning and we would like to continue to do so. We want UNESCO to be a relevant and vibrant  organization which makes a difference. We want to work with the new Director-General, his staff and other  governments to create the UNESCO needed for our time. This is why we are presenting our candidature for the  Executive Board. I thank you, Mr President.  Jiild ygolsST § LUI, Toil 5,255 cpgol Shailyy, Sus) YI LAS
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I now give the floor to Ms Rosängela Adoum, Minister of Education and Culture of Ecuador.
(23.1) Ms ADOUM (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, colleagues, heads of  delegation, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year and two days ago Ecuador signed a peace agreement with Peru.  Jamil Mahuad, the President of my country, created the Office of the Culture of Peace as a signal that we shall  undertake with resolve that vital proposal of Mr Federico Mayor. It was through dialogue that two sister countries  avoided war and overcame conflict. The culture of peace has borne fruit in South America. Hence, Ecuador and  Peru exemplify how UNESCO’s ideas mark the course of history.
(23.2) And so reading document 30 C/5 can only bring reassurance to any minister, since it not only recognizes  the aspirations for education and culture in all of us but also presents — as is already usual for the Director-  General — that rare ability to crystallize the hopes we have cherished for so long and sets out clearly the objectives  that we have laid down to serve citizens through our management.
(23.3) How can we fail to support, continue or participate in the programme “Education for all throughout life”?  Who amongst us has not worked to ensure that science serves development? Those who, as I do, also hold the  culture portfolio have always encouraged the preservation and enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage,  with particular emphasis on the promotion of living cultures, so that Major Programme III merely stimulates a vital  strategy for multicultural and multi-ethnic countries such as Ecuador.
(23.4) Ecuador is going through one of the harshest economic crises of the century, aggravated by an external  debt burden that exceeds its gross domestic product; a nation that is suffering an institutional and political crisis,  demanding leaders who are not corrupt; and, as if that were not enough, a land that has suffered and continues to  suffer natural disasters that only add more devastating effects to what is already a state of emergency. Today, I  should like to ask UNESCO and all my colleagues here to reflect upon the need for projects, plans and programmes  that will reach the most vulnerable groups in this crisis.
(23.5) We have already done this with the cultural heritage. As it happens, one of the expected results for the  end of the biennium is, according to paragraph 03111 (page 120 in the English version) of document 30 C/5,  “National capacities in response to emergency situations upgraded through the dissemination of updated  international directories and databases concerning national emergency plans and technical emergency guides, and  of a roster of national teams of experts in emergency cultural heritage preservation”. These are the skills that we, as  governments, must begin to develop in order to be able to react immediately with educational and cultural policies  to national social emergency situations. Then it is a matter of preserving not just tangible or intangible heritage but  the rights of children and adolescents that have been infringed in the crisis.
(23.6) One of the consequences of the situation Ecuador is enduring in the field of education is the worsening  problem of school drop-outs. Between April and July 1999, 153,000 families failed to send one or more children to  school. In one region alone, affected first by the El Nifio phenomenon and then by the economic crisis, around
150,000 children did not enrol for the 1999/2000 school year. All of this will certainly increase the non-attendance  rates and the number of child workers under the age of 15 years, which between January and July rose by 33,500.
(23.7) Analysis of the level of school attendance by quantiles and by age shows that 24% of 6-year-olds  (minimum school age in Ecuador) in quantiles 1 and 2, the poorest, are not enrolled in schools, and that from the  age of 12 attendance falls off dramatically. In 1998, around 340,000 children were outside the school system. Most  of them, as was to be expected, or, around 250,000 (20% of children in that age group), live in rural areas. The  situation is more serious still for inhabitants of rural areas in the lowest income bracket, as 24% of the population  aged between 6 and 15 attends no educational establishment.
(23.8) The Government of Ecuador has proposed a social protection programme through various actions with  the immediate goal of preventing the accelerated deterioration in living conditions of the social sectors hardest hit  by the crisis. These actions should likewise, in the medium term, pave the way for the formation of human capital.  We must learn how to react immediately when the education of our children is jeopardized, in order to keep them  in the classroom. The themes of infrastructure, quality of education, teacher-training and others, are important,  fundamental and primordial, forming part of the daily life of our ministries and are matters to be attended to, come  rain or shine. Nevertheless, faced with a crisis situation as described above, you will agree with me that we have a  duty to implement actions that help families keep children in school.
(23.9) We are therefore setting up a school-grant system (Beca Escolar), which is already working well in Brazil  and Mexico. Ecuador is calling for the support of member countries so that resources currently being used to pay  off the external debt may be redirected towards education and, in particular, to programmes such as the Beca  Escolar for children in the poorest families. We are fully aware that debts must be paid, but not only the debt that  burdens our economy — also the debts that crush our societies, debts towards women, children and indigenous  peoples. Let us then swap our external debt for education. That education is not exclusively pedagogical but  eminently social is something that we know. I myself have seen peasant women who take their children out of  school to add a few cents to the family income from selling sweets or flowers. I have heard how families in the  urban marginal barrios choose which one of their children will go to school, while the brothers and sisters have to  work in order to keep that child in school. The crisis is so severe that, even though they know that education is a  means of improving quality of life, families opt for daily sustenance rather than a better future. We would all do the  same were we in that situation.
(23.10) I do not venture into the countryside to talk about the quality of education when I see how the quality of  nutrition and access to child care service has deteriorated. Once more, UNESCO must turn itself into the advocate  of a new skill for our governments: the ability to handle emergencies immediately to make sure that their impact on  peoples’ education, culture and health, particularly for the poorest sections of society, is not beyond remedy? 1  hope that the day is not far off, Mr President and colleagues, when UNESCO’s Programme and Budget for the  biennium includes as an expected result one similar to that referring to the endangered heritage, but which would  read: “National capacities in response to social emergency situations upgraded through the dissemination of  updated international experience and databases concerning national emergency plans and technical social  emergency proposals, and of a roster of national teams of experts in preserving access to education and culture in  crisis situations”.
(23.11) The Government of Ecuador formally requests the support of UNESCO and this General Conference in  drawing up mechanisms that will enable resources used to pay off debt to be redirected to developing programmes  that will make it possible to keep children in school as the principal means of preserving human capital.
(23.12) UNESCO is the highest forum of culture. It is not a pragmatic institution. For Member States it is our  reference for universal thought. We have no doubt whatsoever that the new Director-General will, in renewing the  institution, not proceed in a mechanical manner but rather respect the very essence of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Thank you very much.  SM ONE  (aiid Las à Lod hy cof pio]
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):  I thank the Minister of Education and Culture of Ecuador for her informative remarks. I now give the  floor to Professor Tunde Adeniran, Minister of Education of Nigeria.
25.1 Mr ADENIRAN (Nigeria):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I bring special greetings from my President, His  Excellency Olusegun Obasanjo, the Government and people of Nigeria. The President sends in particular very  warm congratulations to Ms Moserova on her election to this very high office of President of the 30th session of  our General Conference, and also to all other elected officers of this august body.
25.2 And now to our very good friend the Director-General: first let me say how pleased we were to have  played host to you during your visit to Nigeria and to work with you in your last few days in office. For the past
12 years, Mr Director-General, you have directed the work of UNESCO, and we are here to confirm that the  progress of UNESCO during your tenure is due to your excellent leadership. We salute you and we look forward  to participating, later in this session, in the formal ceremony of acknowledgement of your tremendous  contribution to the life, progress and achievement of our great Organization, UNESCO.
25.3 Finally, my delegation would like to register, once again, our very warm appreciation and thanks to  France, our host country, and also to wish the Director-General designate, His Excellency Mr Koichiro Matsuura,  a very successful tenure.
25.4 Mr President, here we are on the eve of the dawn of a new century, just over 50 years since UNESCO  was created on the strength of the hope for a brighter and fairer world for humanity. Yet, in spite of our recorded  progress, the truth is that we are yet to achieve that ideal of a world where justice, fairness and peace will be the  lot of everyone, everywhere. What we believe in Nigeria, Mr President, is that it is not enough for our machines  to be attuned to the technological problems of compatibility with the year 2000, but that our minds must also be  attuned to the needs of the year 2000 and the many years beyond, 1f we are indeed to bestow on our people better  conditions than those they currently enjoy. In this regard, we are acutely appreciative of the particular and  pressing needs of the least developed countries, small island States, countries in emergencies and States in  transition and we will support further dynamic focus in solving their multifaceted problems.
25.5 As we plan for the beginning of a new era, our deliberations on the Programme and Budget of the  Organization for 2000-2001 (30 C/5) must be approached with the utmost seriousness and care.
25.6 Nigeria welcomes the continuing emphasis laid on education and approves the reinforcement of  UNESCO’s support for the development, renewal and review of education in its Member States. We continue to  support the ideal of Education for All as a right and the important role of basic education and literacy as building  blocks in seeking that precise ideal.
25.7 Mr President, the present administration in Nigeria attaches great importance to education as the  instrument, par excellence, for preparing Nigerian society to face the daunting challenges of the twenty-first  century. I am therefore privileged to inform this august assembly that less than a month ago, on 30 September
1999, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Mr Olusegun Obasanjo, took another  giant stride towards improving educational development in Nigeria by formally launching Universal Basic  Education (UBE). This is Nigeria's own practical and most courageous response to the Education for All (EFA)  programme, and will entail nine years of free, compulsory and quality education for our people, geared towards  the attainment of functional literacy and the acquisition of life-skills training for Nigerian children and adults. It  will also incorporate science and technology for lifelong learning and sustainable human development for all  Nigerians, irrespective of gender, religion, ethnic and other differences.
25.8 In this regard, we look forward to the support and cooperation of others, particularly the emerging  special plan for cooperation between UNESCO and Nigeria in which emphasis is laid on the reform of the entire  education system — to improve both quality and outreach. We hope, therefore, that this gathering will endorse the  draft resolution which has been graciously submitted by Malawi, proposing further and stronger cooperation  between Nigeria and UNESCO. I should like to thank Malawi and all those Member States that have already  signalled to us their support of the draft resolution, and hope that it will receive the full support of all.
25.9 Mr President, Nigeria sees the role of UNESCO in the field of science as one of contributing to the  implantation, the development and the advancement of science. Nigeria will continue to contribute actively to the  work of the five intergovernmental scientific committees and programmes and we will continue our cooperation  with the Director-General and the Secretariat for the establishment and/or reinforcement of UNESCO Chairs in  Nigeria’s tertiary educational institutions.
25.10 As regards oceanography, we have been very encouraged by the training programmes of the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and we look forward to intensified cooperation of the Secretariat  and other interested bodies in our programme of capacity-building in oceanography in Nigeria, as exemplified by  the plan for the creation of a degree programme in the subject at the University of Lagos.
25.11 Mr President, please allow me at this point to mention here briefly the implementation of Nigeria's  HPNP — High Priority National Project — in the field of solar energy. It is our intention during this session to  have a working meeting with the Secretariat with a view to articulating our proposals and working out the  modalities for their funding.
25.12 On the social and human sciences, Nigeria supports the redirection of MOST to focus more on poverty  alleviation strategies. Several steps have been taken by the Nigerian Government to restructure the economy in a  way that would raise the population out of the poverty trap. In this regard, we look forward to UNESCO’s  collaboration and assistance for national initiatives geared towards overall poverty alleviation and indeed  eradication.
25.13 On culture, we note the reshaping of the programme in culture and the proposed gradual building up of  UNESCO as a clearing house for information. We welcome the proposed three-pronged action for the  preservation and enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage and the means proposed for its attainment.  Nigeria is proud to announce the inclusion of the first Nigerian cultural site in the World Heritage List. This will  lead to the discovery of others that will be added to it. We also thank this august body for the inclusion of this  heritage on the List. We are assuring you that this will be one of the ways in which we will make our  contribution, by promoting our culture and making sure that Nigeria contributes its own culture in appreciation of  the cultural heritage of the world.
25.14 On communication, Mr President, before I end, Nigeria has always been in the forefront of the call for  UNESCO’s action in this regard and we cannot fail to call attention to the importance of the role of the  Intergovernmental Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) in this field and the need for  increased financial endowment for its work.
25.15 I should also like to add at this point that the Director-General has made several budgetary proposals  and indeed the proposal of options is interesting and we hope even useful. However, we wonder if the General  Conference should really be confronted with a series of unsolved problems and details or whether our mandate to  the Executive Board should suffice to give it enough time to consider and propose a reasonable budgetary  allocation for our consideration and adoption.
25.16 We continue to note the dwindling funds available for UNESCO?s action, at a time when we in Nigeria,  like many other Member States, would prefer to see some increase, however minimal, in UNESCO funds so as to  enable it to address, better and more fully, its ever-expanding responsibilities. My delegation has the mandate to  pursue this in the deliberations of the commissions of the General Conference, especially the Administrative  Commission, and to work positively with delegations of like mind in finding solutions that will be useful and will  meet the needs of the next millennium.
25.17 Finally, Nigeria considers every session of the General Conference as a renewed opportunity for review  and for planning — an occasion for rededication to the ideals of UNESCO, an occasion for learning and for  sharing experiences, in all the endeavours of contributing to the efforts to create a culture of peace for the world  through education, science, culture, communication, information and the social sciences. As this is the first  General Conference since Nigeria has had totally democratic governance, Mr President, Nigeria will wish to  thank all Member States for their sympathy and empathy and for standing by us during this transition period. I
149   assure you all that our present administration, which operates on the basis of popular democracy, the rule of law,  transparency and accountability, has the political will to join hands with all other Member States of UNESCO in  attaining the national as well as the global goals of this Organization. We are therefore counting on your support  in securing for us a seat on the Executive Board, through which Nigeria promises to vigorously promote the  ideals of UNESCO and to serve the common interests of mankind. Mr President, long live the ideals  encapsulated in UNESCO’s multifaceted philosophy! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for listening.  (M. Koko, Tchad, prend la présidence)
26. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie vivement le professeur Tunde Adeniran, ministre de l'éducation du Nigéria. Je donne à  présent la parole a S. Exc. M. Mohamad Youssef Beydoun, ministre de la culture, de l'enseignement supérieur,  de l'éducation nationale, de la jeunesse et des sports du Liban.  (OLY) Gal auf VV)  celal Baladl plat pall Jas sed) SRI Gulanall (uy Jas andl all Ge) ped  dur guy algae À de EVE sll 13g) Sail oF GU pels J Gaara ¢ oly Shaner 23) elu
0555 of J ub LS aR (ag) Las, Lal Je Lgl US Ue Ld Biss Sad! ce pS  Uloyy sSudgdl 3, ob wl, els 8 dune cdl! wld 5 Ls all in 8 GLS AS) Lio  willed! gw Lleadly GLS Gsû>5 dally dl dag] goal Bases ole © Oe 825 pl © ob  dl os 3ST Taagall > à SUIS JS LayShy I Ab a Sul 0b Wy cold ce cll  ollly Bball Ja Vl Sa Suis] me Gym VS La gun À of 08 Nad (unl Lille Labia  SV Sy Nix Logs JI B33 Tad coptily Sind) 3185 mo old à lis 00 TsJl BL Lager  lo, yas el Jdgdl Js Je has] ol Lede pols LS logawy 595 slojinw BM! ola of dl is  Lab où cipal! à Leto Llp] Suis] wl lgnolss à b> 5 Leyla 3l L>LL oud Of Sis  Al dons à alls  heal 1 delta Les edSall Sls Pll Sail! mail LIS c Soluy Slag usd) aad! YY,  IYI Bio LSG dls gag JI cLgiadlasg LA slusly oylsSlly skills 0a,dly geal Al, Lolly  Linda 480 cpandly Leo pool] Léna DISS 03a UT 0) LéialLes ass 5 Hsiudl ose  os J Ct LES EAPC 35 JL FVII PR pe)  UPIRVID PRESS Jus FRRTVE NJ SP JV. 30  of Bylot dal vo Leg Ji ald cco Vail sumo Jog cLsloglally Daalally Lg yidly L3GHI Bano]  dy ow Lo yal daw dwsde Liao Llisis cigyy Gon Ula Laidley VI LENS do Go AUS Se  LBS)  rg à pbs ols Ld oS Lys wht Lolll wisi! JUS gS gl als a) ud Jl aud! VON  Cpl) aile (55 sy Okey cpalaill Jas § Guess SI dal JI AWE WE Tf  Enelsgey «Silly Gell pail) Joswy Sl) ass) (EAU loll) plyeSinly oll) 3,001  via ob yao By ISL 034) Aap! Dalal B58 ALI odd wile wl yesill oda JS LL pslal  itll of ILE 5e bo Senlaostll oda co A SAN Ld ail] 595 sla Fly laa ego loss ol aiid  poll ax ay oF ro plein! oh sl Gull me Gi LS UY Clie ga Lao p35 JB Jip Lo  Lilas gall lpi) sti (Baal whol! 355 AJ Ld Lis 25501 SBSY hog LAS gas  iy Lg Ji Le oy meld psd! Lans SEINE 52 Wl § TUE L317 292g 08 8S mes LSE UJ,  GS U Sal Je 355 of JAH dhugill Lehes AS rig die gSwigdl ged pÉlIl 13a 5e BMI,  NY. 575405 [RERES PS des ol coal SS Ga + Bag po dls pd > Les sde sl duJcll of ya 3
43 542] 4345” Lions] L 553 c Loud! J=YI Losi dos] La] Leads of =) ¢ dd gl lil JS
150   pls)! digalaly ce yleSIl dgalgl "slawNly 4yyseadl” . The Culture of Preparedness® "3Lÿ0ly  © Se > 3) Amado) CoyleSily € « alls sola sur 0dl le ERE SWART Lol! i c Olgandly  Col Jad! 3 agde LT psf Jo ple DAS Re pI Lali of Lobe 45 Jatin) Si ual gd lle  VP [IY  BD le 05 celal dlally LE Lally Lp sSadsdl pln ame Je Li NYSE  cles pds pla Jeo a 3 «dd el sal US 33 : palais dus il Er J Nl cela  laud Ge Loges gall sie wligg¥l plo 3 Sol Lull JIS Lo cpl ly lilly Logoall 3) ,Sill SSI  Lil Jar Jo Goold) JAN daugill USINE bose 355 of sSudsdl Jo Just VU eal go  Bod! de blasdly gaily SDLAly al Gull Doi daly Lgl colabidly Jolt wlll abu 5 JS  Logas Bld] dae gd Cd
138 à sSudsdl yoo Gl Sls LaSlshy La bla (Asal ge Gyan! GS BEY dre § LSB Yv,e  Eye” slo Ll Lpandl pl BUS cular JI "plpall BU" 35 Jo Jonll 32 (Jel tepid 15 Jal  Yeo) de § ld of pSlel oF Feu "hiblly Daag pall glo” y "BRL gle” y "ol lan]  pol de Old of 5 of JET VE COLIS BU Tpusilly Ll BUI cute lead) Ll jaS50 Ciné
5 coal! SN LE call JI BA alll cold 5 c(uuslan) Jar Lose Ge Sy Leake Jos  EMI Lidl all Jobol pasta V8 Lud OL poled S91 SH oy Lede opter de itl]  lb Mine Âll doling dpi Jie V cpl Qld of gS! Lele! Ls pod] da poll! BU  aby cold Loy p JS Bg cline dé jly poll 4d Cities CSS (Baill pad lB ak (Llgasy  pod! BS aga lin Gain! plyinly Jaa) Bly odd! BUS Gr Lys LO Led of Tol gard co3lomy  SpA ce BUEN 03 55 5 gS] Had bys  roll § blo, jpandl 0 pas si $ Lay 5SiL pli puis by A pla] Jw S$ Wi vv  So Waslad eb Clie 5 ogadll das 3050 Go dé U LLSN lie 25 3 gad ola  le Blas La ol iil) 245 JF Joan VI 33950 JI peus Wb pully paill Ils J) ASIN IS Ge 5,3)  De 335 Ul (IYI § pill jus xo A oIgiSlly Gall pul 5 Las p30 Sly 6 gmull Busmally Lindl  GO Lal angy atime $US] dal Go Suds! died bo pail] JS jal old of com ad! YVLV  Slay psd! OU Of Jum! 138 à 00547 pony pall will) se sf JEL S15 Je bls Jw  Joby SY (Guslan) Jar Tose à bli Toy SUIS Sig) El POLY psle 5507 Je 8,08 UT  bsp 13a gel JL dons Lily (Gus UV dons Vues ppd! JUS 5S 11 13s Las of  las prox gin LBagad 355 GAS bay (Lagas 35 Linde AS 0255 Lolo Lylof 5511 Sagas Jess.  PI 0 pp 516 cypzle 5S 0d ad plat all Sega ul of 095 all 13s ale] of sr dg YVA  Ly lowly dbp igi LLaB LIS «Jnl Bly CLIN Lady 31,00 Ai | gSus all ssolu SDS  ll guile 9 dsS spud plo 9Supand sand! AS MI CNE BL dad! of le soe  Cabill Loox 5 cslhall go a3ll pi A Game > 30 pla! SAS AV SIE (ular! 5e HD A1 pl  slp Ge 23 V 61 ASE (Lia oz Lpolainl elas à cdi plus uid Saale 4d Jeans Log  SA ageall Js Luis 1 LELSIl, TOY oll Ge mis wlaladl § BUS palally Lula 55
151   spd! sad! col JI ose olds S331 pid ¢ ol iw] dre colis ¢ Jani or p38 SH pd  pl «psd ISS. 38a nasal) 13g] 55 ¢ Fle (Flam RIES RAYS © Lila oS LS <p! pli
(27.1) Mr BEYDOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Representative of the Director-General, Your  Excellencies, heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me, on behalf of Lebanon, to wish this
30th session of the General Conference every success in its work under the judicious guidance of its President,  Ms Moserova. I congratulate her on her election to her important office. It is also a pleasure for me that Lebanon’s  participation in this session, as in previous sessions of the Conference, is based on the firm conviction that  UNESCO’s mission and Lebanon’s mission in the world are complementary in many areas, including, most  notably, democracy, freedom, human rights, intercultural dialogue and interfaith encounter. Consequently, it is  UNESCO, more than any other international organization, that is present in the mind of every Lebanese in the  course of his or her everyday life. Indeed, there is an entire quarter of Beirut that is known as the UNESCO  Quarter, to remind successive generations and the population in general of the close relationship with Lebanon that  was created when UNESCO was founded, a relationship that has continued strong and firm to this day, and there is  every indication that it will become ever stronger and more enduring with the passage of time. I would like to see  every State that esteems UNESCO’s mission name a square, a street or a district in its capital after our  Organization, in order to help secure recognition for it and its mission of service to the world.
(27.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time the General Conference meets, the same problems occupy  its attention: ignorance, illiteracy, poverty, hunger, disease, pollution, disasters, disaster preparedness, response to  disaster, and so on. These are problems that have always beset humanity, and certainly there will be no end to the  task of dealing with them. Whether old or new, these are perennial problems, and the unceasing efforts to cope with  them must inevitably be inadequate. There can be no denying, however, that UNESCO has done impressive work  at all levels in the areas of culture, education, science, information and communication; there is no aspect of human  civilization that it has neglected, and there are no problems that it has failed to address, in some cases in depth and  with deliberation, in others more lightly and quickly, depending on its resources and capabilities.
(27.3) Mr President, over the years UNESCO has directed the world’s attention to the great issues of our time  by organizing a number of important international conferences: Jomtien on education, Rio de Janeiro on the  environment, Cairo on population, Stockholm on cultural policies, Beijing on women, Seoul on technical and  vocational education, Budapest on science, and so on. All these conferences have served to enhance the world’s  awareness of the need to address these issues without delay, and resolutions of great significance have been  adopted at the conclusion of each of them. But when it comes to the implementation of these resolutions, what do  we find? There can be no doubt that in all cases implementation has fallen far short of expectations, and  consequently I agree with the Executive Board that from now on greater attention should be paid to the  implementation of such resolutions than to the adoption of more of them. When resolutions go unimplemented, the  international conferences that adopt them lose credibility. That is why we hear so much about a “crisis of  confidence” in the world, which is in fact the result of the vast disparity between what is said and what is actually  done. In view of this situation, I urge UNESCO, when preparing its Medium-Term Strategy, to concentrate on the  implementation of resolutions and recommendations adopted by past international conferences, and the narrowing  of the gap between intention and action. There is a new culture that is emerging from international conferences, and  I would like to see the next Medium-Term Strategy take that culture into account as well: I call it “the culture of  preparedness” — preparedness, that is, to confront disasters, injustice and aggression, all social and health-related  problems, whether long-festering or newly arisen, and natural disasters. Now that foretelling the future has become  a science, there is no reason why the world should be taken by surprise by problems which we know are bound to  arise sooner or later.
(27.4) With reference to UNESCO’s educational, scientific, cultural and communication-related programmes, I  have only three comments to make. In the first place, in the field of education, despite the efforts that have been  made in all countries, and despite UNESCO’s repeated calls, backed by reports and figures, education, for most  States, still has lower priority than other areas. For that reason, I should like to see UNESCO’s next Medium-Term  Strategy concentrate more on an effort to induce States and international and national organizations to give  education top priority. Education is the key to peace, security, development, environmental protection and, in  general, the enhancement of the quality of life.
(27.5) In the second place, concerning the field of culture, globalization and its attendant dangers and  advantages are being widely discussed nowadays. I suggest that UNESCO has a twofold role to play here. On the  one hand, it should work to eradicate the “culture of struggle”, the concept according to which the culture of recent  centuries is based on a “struggle of civilizations” or a “class struggle” or a “struggle between the people’s interests  and national interests”. I am happy to inform you that in 2001 Lebanon will be hosting a world conference on  dialogue between cultures. As regards the other aspect, namely the promotion of the culture of peace, I shall not be  exaggerating if I say that Lebanon is among the States that desire that culture most ardently. It was the city of  Jubayl (the ancient Byblos), in Lebanon, that gave the world the alphabet, thousands of years ago, and it was in that  same city of Byblos, at the International Centre for Human Sciences there, that the International Year for the  Culture of Peace between nations was proclaimed last 14 September. UNESCO also proclaimed the Year. But in
152   Lebanon itself, the southern part of the country and the Western Bekaa region are still occupied as a result of  aggression and injustice, despite United Nations resolutions. How can peace become established in a country that is  occupied, a country whose land and air are subjected to aggression daily? There is a necessary interconnection  between the culture of peace, the culture of justice and respect for rights. Here we find the core of the culture of  peace and the condition that must be met if UNESCO is to succeed in propagating that culture among the peoples  of the world.
(27.6) In the third place, regarding the field of science, at no period in history has world progress been so  closely bound up with technology as it currently is. I regard this situation as desirable, insofar as it affords practical  benefit to the world’s peoples in various fields by helping them to emerge from a state of backwardness and  ushering them into a condition of growth and advancement. At the same time, I should like to point out that it is  essential for technology to be wisely used if the natural environment is to be preserved, and that scientific and  technological progress must go hand in hand with moral progress, which is rooted in religion and in thought in  general.
(27.7) Mr President, Lebanon deeply appreciates the efforts made by UNESCO on its behalf during and after its  time of trial, as regards the preservation of not only its cultural heritage but also its mission of civilization, and  support for the country’s own endeavours in that connection. Today, Lebanon is placing great hope in the Centre  for Human Sciences, which is a UNESCO institution located in the historic city of Jubayl (Byblos), and which has  now begun operating. I hope that over the next two years the Centre’s activities will be of service not only to  Lebanon but to the entire world. This will be possible, however, only provided the Centre is adequately staffed and  funded. We, as the host country, have committed ourselves — and we reaffirm our commitment here and now — to  providing the Centre for Human Sciences in Jubayl with all the resources required for its success and advancement.
(27.8) I cannot conclude my remarks without expressing my wholehearted admiration for the tireless efforts of  the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, on behalf of UNESCO?s principles. The status of women, the situation  of young people, culture and the future, all these are issues, Mr Mayor, with which your name will long be  associated. The long roll of accomplishments which Federico Mayor leaves behind is the best possible legacy he  could bequeath to his successor, Mr Koichiro Matsuura, whose candidature was proposed to the General  Conference by the Executive Board, as he in his turn seeks to serve the Organization and further its efforts on  behalf of humanity in its fields of competence. In that connection, I should like to reiterate that there can be no  substitute for a policy that seeks to orient education, science and culture along lines laid down in accordance with  ethical human values which, in my view, must ever be the foundation-stone of a genuine peace based on justice,  one that will ensure not only stability but progress and prosperity. As always, Mr Matsuura, Lebanon will strive  alongside you in the pursuit of that goal. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish this Conference all success. Thank you.
28. Le PRESIDENT :  J'adresse mes vifs remerciements a S. Exc. M. Mohamad Youssef Beydoun, ministre de la culture, de  l'enseignement supérieur, de l'éducation nationale, de la jeunesse et des sports du Liban. Je donne à présent la  parole à S. Exc. Mme Wei Yu, vice-ministre de l'éducation de la Chine.
29. 2 KIER RARMLDH RE FRM TNT ERA In Z br HIF, X— Enz EH +  DEEMEX. RFI ER20MLE, AFASIE TERNED, BESARHBHRE, tad  NEHER, XHBEEAERRE, ANRKEFRRES TRA EE; (PE, RELA RS  TERHIIHE E40 AMT I ER FFE 7 CHEE Ron A RAE Ek T ERB, Ha MEAs 2
153   SE MANRNEFMN EE. A202 F THEE, FE, XMELTHELLRCIE, IX VE  R&R PEE IR ER AE THRBERKER, NIWIXKRE ESHER ESRAR, EMRE  OR EBEE, EMP EREERERTA2LEL, Ah RIERA RR XE — TM A  W251.
20004E NISC “EAE RENTRÉE, EXRAREFHEE” WBE BAM Edo XW TEM  FT, HRS AKRASZ RAH EX SEIMA “20004E2 KEE CEFA2000) ” ERIK DT  BR. BERL, REARXE. ÉRXSÉEVRAEEMEX. ROWERS BBE EAR CHR  fE (2000-2001 RIS HS FR) WHEELS, BEKEARBEEZE. FMAM ALKE  MERE, FEMRANEEEN TEEN.
29. 5 20th Zein) ER RER EL CSV, FRE NE R ERE SLD  MEZIo ASP EEE “BERBER ED” KER RE PES FAX EH” A  FRE” MEK KRISS ET HIER. BENE, FHXÈRÉE, HELEM, AT MR  Ao SE KKK RANE, Ae HH BBUF AIT TEETER SE = KEE HE THES, té  WT EHEBERRAE, HEWMATAMÉRAE, SHEDRREENRE. SH8H, THK  HXAHTEEBREHKE, A TR TMERBARCH, KERR, LIAR RE. KHIR  SDR WENGER EREEAEGHNXG HERR INI EBL 88 8 R KEL ARE  Mi
29.6 RRA REG FMF a BASCF BCS EHR SCALE ES HER] EX JE FE  KE EORÉÉNKAFTHAIE, WEXSHERR. UEBRARNELN RIERA SHU AL HF  HR EEA. FARBETESK, PEAKE REERIEL TF, kG HEE RIIHA EE  MU Rg nA, RA NHANEBBARNAG EE REL RANCHEAT, Bist. FX  WHEE MS, NENS JEU, ZEANEE TRE MRE, BPoEXR8aEhR. FN, TH  NANTES, BATTERS MEETS FREI TAR, REET ARNRBERRK, EVER  FREI BOM BME. FATT I AE IX LE UE FR) LE as EME
29.7 FEF Sl ER Bx SE ORL SCALA KA Re oy BE HR ER EE Be RA BOE EAE SBE IHR  AXE, ZH 0 H19944E MALEK, F402 AN EK KNEE THK LRM FEES INT OIF BRET  KM HE ITER SEES. REESE HEE ThE FER SCHS ALI “2000 REF”  HERI TAR, $n NES RM TE AIR RIERA TIRER MH FURR. Hk, BA EE EER  SCAR JH 2 À EB AR 05 iH DIEU RISC RIT BY, ERE ERA o
29.9 REX E, AREGHRIELIET, REMRIEL, PERK REAITHIA, TESTS  ThE, FAURE ESM SCARE ESET R202 Eh rEg BEEN, BEAERAEE  FORME FAS REA ES IS EHR SCHR LL BBR EER RK. AATTEAN LE BE BH Hop cdl  LE ERT T COOER « REALE” ES). BATES SBE HER ARANEE RH  VAI EE DEE, AISÉE SA RASH HERB THETRIFE1E,
(29.1) Ms Wei YU (China) (Translation from the Chinese):  Mr President, first of all, allow me to congratulate Ms Moserovd on her election as President of this  session of the General Conference. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the contribution  made by Mr Federico Mayor during his two terms as Director-General of the Organization.
(29.2) Mr President, this session is held at a time when this century is coming to an end and the next millennium  is drawing near, at a historic moment of great significance. Human society has achieved tremendous progress in the  twentieth century now drawing to an end, during which science and technology have advanced with each passing  day, social productivity has developed at an unprecedented rate, the level of human civilization has increased  constantly and standards of living have also greatly improved. However, human society has also been overwhelmed  by disasters in this century. Incessant wars, particularly the two world wars, have inflicted tremendous destruction  on human society, and the deterioration of the environment has endangered the survival and development of human  beings. In the last 50 years of the twentieth century China, an ancient country with a 5,000-year history of  civilization and in modern times a backward country humiliated by imperialist powers, has witnessed tremendous,  ground-breaking changes. People of all nationalities in China, who have just celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of  the founding of the New China and who are greeting with great confidence the return of Macao, are making  unremitting efforts to bring a basically prosperous country into the twenty-first century and work for the great  renaissance and reunification of the Chinese nation.
(29.3) At the turn of the century, peace and development have still not become the major concerns. The world is  moving towards multi-polarization, the Cold War mentality continues to exist, and hegemony and power politics  are developing in a new form. The world is far from tranquil, and people all over the world share a common  aspiration and desire to maintain peace, seek stability and promote development.
(294) As the largest developing country in the world, New China has scored brilliant and splendid successes in  education over the last 50 years. The Chinese Government gave top priority to basically eliminating illiteracy  among young adults and making nine-year compulsory education universal in its reform and development of  education. By the end of 1998, the adult illiteracy rate had dropped to 14.5% from 80% in 1949, and the system of  nine-year compulsory education has basically been implemented in the regions inhabited by more than 73% of the  total population of the country. The number of students attending various levels of education nationwide amounted  to 320 million, which was 12 times the figure for 1949. China’s achievements in education show that we are  confident of fulfilling as scheduled the set task of “basically making nine-year compulsory education universal and  basically eliminating illiteracy among young adults” by the year 2000. If this job is well done, it will be a  contribution made by China, a country with one fifth of the world’s population, to the realization of the goal of  EFA 2000 worldwide. Looking into the new century, we still have an arduous task before us, as we have a long  way to go to eliminate illiteracy and make compulsory education universal in China. We are pleased to see that in  the major programmes of UNESCO?s Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-2001, top priority is given to basic  education and the elimination of illiteracy among young people and adults in the least developed countries, Africa  and the E-9 countries.
(29.5) The world’s history of development in the twentieth century, particularly since the Second World War,  has proved that scientific progress and the development of education are the driving force behind social and  economic progress. The famous principle that “science and technology are the primary productivity” as was  proposed by Mr Deng Xiaoping, has laid a solid theoretic foundation for China to formulate the national  development strategy of “sustainable development” and “revitalizing the country through science and education”.
30.  Science and technology are the key to revitalizing the country and education is the basis, while human talents are  the fundamental elements. In order to implement the State development strategy, the Chinese Government called a  national conference on education in June this year, the third since China introduced the policy of reform and  opening up. The conference proposed that education designed to raise the overall ability of students should be  promoted in an all-round way. A decision on deepening educational reform and comprehensively promoting  “overall quality education” was made at the conference. In August this year, the Chinese Government convened  another national conference on technological renovation to comprehensively promote technological renovation. A  decision was made at this conference to strengthen technological renovation and develop advanced technology so  as to apply it to production. The two conferences will surely have a far-reaching impact on the establishment and  improvement of a system of education throughout life that suits the practical conditions of our country and on the  acceleration of the process of establishing a system of scientific and technological renovation.
(29.6) The society of the future is one in which people pursue learning throughout life. We support UNESCO’s  efforts to help its Member States, especially the developing countries, to formulate a strategy for the renovation of  national education systems and construct a system of education throughout life. New advanced technologies with  information technology as their core are regarded by all countries as an important technological pillar for lifelong  learning. As a developing country short of educational resources, China, relying on its existing education and  research networks and satellite video transmission networks, will take full advantage of modern information  technology and existing information resources to develop distance education, so as to build an open education  network available to the public. This will provide broader access to multi-tiered education in a variety of forms and  thus gradually improve the system of lifelong education. Meanwhile, in order to meet the demands of the new  century, we shall continue to strengthen the education and training of teachers, establish an effective mechanism to  increase the number of teachers, allocate teaching resources in a reasonable way, improve the overall quality of  teachers and establish a high-quality teaching force. International cooperation in this field is warmly welcomed.
(29.7) 1 should like particularly to thank UNESCO and the Member States concerned for their support for the  Baoding International Research and Training Centre for Rural Education. Since the centre’s founding in 1994,  education experts and scholars from more than 40 countries have participated in dozens of the centre’s research and  training activities in the field of rural education. These activities have effectively supported the work of attaining  UNESCO’s goal of EFA 2000 and provided valuable experience and research findings to push forward the  development of rural education. We hope, therefore, that UNESCO and its Member States will continue to give the  necessary support and assistance to this centre so as to make it play a greater role.
(29.8) Mr President, we hold that all countries have the right to choose a social system and a road of  development that suit their own actual conditions. Countries with different social systems should respect each  other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, treat each other on an equal footing and coexist peacefully. We oppose  attempts by any country to impose its own social system and ideology on others, in whatever form. UNESCO is an  international intergovernmental organization consisting of sovereign States. Bearing its main functions and  responsibilities in mind, it should pool its efforts to promote international intellectual cooperation among its  Member States in the field of education, science, culture and communication, in order to make its due contribution  to world peace and development. In view of the fact that UNESCO is an international organization, any of its  activities, whatever their contents and forms, should follow the principle of respecting cultural diversity and the  sovereignty of its Member States.
(29.9) Mr President, before I conclude my speech, I should like to stress that China’s development cannot go  ahead without the rest of the world, while the world’s prosperity needs the contribution of China. China treasures  the constructive role UNESCO has played in its reform and opening up over more than 20 years. China is always  ready to maintain and develop its relations of active cooperation with UNESCO on condition that there are no  obstacles between us. Not long ago we successfully cooperated with UNESCO in holding the 1999 Paris-China  Cultural Week, and we are willing to continue to cooperate in all fields under the auspices of UNESCO. I am  expecting fruitful cooperation with the new Director-General to be elected at this session.
(29.10) I wish this session the greatest success! Thank you, Mr President.  Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie vivement S. Exc. Mme Wei Yu, vice-ministre de l'éducation de la Chine. Je donne à présent  la parole à S. Exc. Mme Patrizia Toia, sous-secrétaire d'Etat aux affaires étrangères de l'Italie.
31.1 Mme TOIA (Italie) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Messieurs les chefs des délégations, Messieurs les délégués permanents, Mesdames et Messieurs, avant d'exposer  les mesures que mon pays entend mettre en œuvre au sein de l'Organisation au cours des deux ans à venir, je  voudrais féliciter Mme Moserovd pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale, et souhaiter  chaleureusement la bienvenue à la République des Palaos et aux Etats fédérés de Micronésie qui viennent  d'adhérer à notre Organisation.
31.2 Au nom de mon gouvernement, je voudrais aussi exprimer mes plus vifs remerciements et tous mes  veeux au Directeur général sortant. Monsieur le Directeur général, vous avez donné un nouvel essor a cette  Organisation dans une phase difficile de son histoire et vous avez su la conduire avec autorité au rendez-vous du  nouveau millénaire. L'Italie vous est reconnaissante de la vision que vous avez insufflée à cette Organisation et  de l'énergie que vous lui avez consacrée pendant votre mandat. Votre sensibilité et votre inspiration humaniste  sont une part essentielle du patrimoine que l'Europe entière lègue à l'UNESCO.
31.3 Enfin, je voudrais féliciter le Conseil exécutif de sa décision de soumettre au vote de la Conférence  générale un candidat tel que l'Ambassadeur Matsuura, à même d'apporter à l'UNESCO, outre sa grande  expérience, l'engagement significatif d'un continent comme l'Asie - continent des plus anciens et nouveau à la  fois, qui aujourd'hui réclame légitimement le privilège d'offrir au monde, dans ce domaine aussi, le fruit de ses  énergies, sous le signe de son identité culturelle propre.
31.4 Pour un pays comme l'Italie, depuis toujours carrefour de l'histoire et des cultures, c'est une bonne  nouvelle, car à n'en pas douter cette nomination nous permettra de réaliser cette plus vaste ouverture de  l'UNESCO à l'ensemble des civilisations que nous avons toujours appelée de nos vœux. Sur cette ouverture se  joueront l'avenir de l'Organisation et sa capacité de se proposer comme espace planétaire de rencontre et de  médiation éthique et culturelle, dans le respect du dialogue et de la tolérance réciproque entre civilisations.
31.5 Le monde a beaucoup changé depuis que, voici un demi-siècle, l'UNESCO s'est mise en chemin. De  nombreux objectifs ont été atteints : les droits de l'homme, en tant que norme de cohabitation interne et  internationale, ne sont désormais plus contestés ; des progrès considérables ont été accomplis dans la réalisation  des buts fondamentaux de l'UNESCO, comme l'alphabétisation ; nous sommes aujourd'hui plus conscients de la  nécessité de sauvegarder le patrimoine, qu'il convient de mettre en valeur dans sa dimension culturelle, mais aussi  comme réel facteur potentiel de croissance économique.
31.6 D'autres défis, nouveaux et complexes, se dessinent au seuil du prochain millénaire : le combat pour la  dignité de l'être humain et son progrès matériel et spirituel est loin d'être gagné dans le monde ; trop de  communautés continuent d'être victimes de la violence et du sous-développement ; d'autres sont menacées dans  leur identité par les exigences mêmes du développement et par la dynamique de la mondialisation. C'est un risque  qui nous concerne tous, mais qui pèse avant tout sur les sociétés, les ethnies et les groupes les plus défavorisés :  notre cible prioritaire ce sont eux, dont le foisonnement des identités culturelles constitue au demeurant la  richesse du monde, ainsi que l'UNESCO l'a réaffirmé à la Conférence de Stockholm.
31.7 Cette 30e session de la Conférence générale est l'occasion d'une rénovation attendue des structures et  des objectifs de l'Organisation. Nous souhaitons une UNESCO plus représentative des diversités culturelles, plus  ouverte aux compétences extérieures, et plus dynamique dans l'utilisation des technologies de la communication.  Nous ne doutons pas que le Secrétariat, une fois réorganisé, saura s'acquitter de sa tâche. L'UNESCO de demain  sera inévitablement plus austère car tenue de concilier des priorités essentielles avec un budget réduit. Quoi qu'il  en soit elle ne devra pas renoncer à l'universalité de son mandat dans ses domaines de compétence. Pour cette  raison aussi, je tiens à le souligner, il est important que des pays comme l'Italie soient plus que jamais présents à  ses côtés dans cette phase de transition. Ils seront du reste appelés à compenser les restrictions budgétaires par  des contributions volontaires additionnelles, peut-être même au travers des bureaux régionaux. Nous souhaitons  que celui de Venise, par exemple, devienne de plus en plus un modèle de coopération entre un Etat membre et  l'Organisation.
31.8 À cet égard, j'ai le plaisir d'annoncer que l'Italie, qui compte parmi les principaux contribuants au budget  ordinaire de l'Organisation et qui est déjà le premier en ce qui concerne les fonds extrabudgétaires, a décidé de  doubler sa contribution volontaire pour 1999. Cet effort est pour une bonne part destiné à renforcer des secteurs  en pleine expansion, tels que le dispositif de sauvegarde du patrimoine mondial et la mise en valeur durable des  biens culturels, ou à ouvrir de nouvelles voies, comme la défense du patrimoine immatériel et la promotion du  dialogue interculturel.
31.9 S'agissant du patrimoine culturel et naturel, nous sommes conscients des déséquilibres dans la  composition actuelle de la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Ces déséquilibres pourront et devront être rectifiés par  l'expression d'une volonté politique d'entreprendre des réformes, et moyennant une rotation plus rapide du  Comité et une meilleure représentativité des diverses cultures au sein de la Liste. L'Italie mettra cette année un  demi-million de dollars à la disposition de l'Organisation afin que celle-ci puisse offrir son assistance technique  aux pays qui n'ont pu encore obtenir l'inscription de sites nationaux sur la Liste. Nous comptons que d'autres  partenaires, attachés eux aussi au patrimoine culturel et naturel, consentiront un effort analogue, comme l'a déjà  fait, par exemple, le Japon.
31.10 Préserver ce patrimoine, c'est aussi faire de ce capital un moteur de la croissance économique et du  développement durable. Telle était la visée de la conférence internationale que l'Italie a accueillie à Florence au  début du mois d'octobre, point de rencontre entre les programmes de la Banque mondiale, institution financière,  et l'action de l'UNESCO, occasion d'un échange approfondi et intense entre gouvernements, organisations non  gouvernementales et représentants du monde de la culture, de la communauté universitaire, du secteur privé et  des milieux financiers. C'est sous cette forme qu'il convient selon nous de développer à l'avenir les thèmes relatifs  au patrimoine et nous entendons continuer à explorer les possibilités dans ce domaine.
31.11 L'Italie attache beaucoup d'importance au dialogue interculturel. Aussi se propose-t-elle de financer un  programme de formation conçu pour forger une sensibilité et une conscience multiculturelles. On encouragera  notamment la création, dans certaines régions géographiques, de centres régionaux destinés aux jeunes qui  formeront des "animateurs et des spécialistes des techniques de communication afin de promouvoir une culture  de la paix dans les zones de conflit".
31.12 L'Italie se préoccupe également de la préservation du patrimoine immatériel, à travers notamment des  programmes de formation axés dans un premier temps sur l'Afrique et les sociétés insulaires des Caraïbes et du  Pacifique. On a beaucoup débattu, sur le plan théorique, de l'importance de sauvegarder les traditions, les arts, les  métiers et tout ce qui peut être transmis aux générations futures. Nous savons qu'il y a là des valeurs et des  données d'expérience fondamentales pour la stabilité sociale. Nous voudrions parvenir dans les meilleurs délais à  mettre en place un mécanisme de sauvegarde de ces valeurs analogue à celui qui existe déjà pour la défense du  patrimoine culturel et naturel.
31.13 C'est avec beaucoup de satisfaction que nous participons cette année au projet "La Route de l'esclave",  dont nous attendons beaucoup comme moyen de raviver la mémoire historique de ce qui fut une immense  tragédie humaine, mais aussi de sensibiliser les opinions publiques à un phénomène qui se perpétue sous des  formes plus modernes, mais plus cruelles et intolérables encore, comme le racket des clandestins et des réfugiés.  La participation italienne au programme bénéficiera non seulement d'un financement substantiel de la part de  l'Etat, mais aussi de la collaboration active de la ville de Palerme.
31.14 De même, nous sommes fiers d'avoir été parmi les premiers à promouvoir au sein de l'Organisation le  rôle des femmes, depuis toujours porteuses des valeurs qui fondent l'affirmation d'une culture du respect de la  personne et du dialogue. Dans le droit fil de cet objectif, l'Italie a soutenu et recommandé à la Conférence  mondiale sur la science qui s'est tenue à Budapest la création d'un réseau de femmes scientifiques de façon à  favoriser autant que possible la participation plus entière des femmes aux réalités scientifiques et technologiques,  notamment dans les pays où cette participation fait encore problème. J'espère que le suivi de cet important projet  aura le soutien de la Conférence générale.
31.15 Enfin, mais ce n'est pas le moins important, toujours dans le domaine de la science, je voudrais rappeler  l'engagement de mon pays en faveur de la formation de chercheurs et scientifiques dans les sociétés en  développement. Cet effort est de l'ordre de 13 millions de dollars par an. Des dizaines de milliers de chercheurs,  dont il serait trop long de rappeler les pays d'origine, ont bénéficié du programme en un quart de siècle. Je  confirme que ce programme, qui a fait l'objet d'une loi, continuera à être financé par l'Etat italien.
31.16 Monsieur le Président, voici que s'achève un siècle tragique durant lequel l'identité et la civilisation de  peuples entiers ont subi des violences indicibles, et où l'écart entre pauvres et riches, loin de se réduire, s'est  creusé. Sur ces fautes du passé, et contre les tendances aberrantes qui sont en train encore aujourd'hui de produire  des masses toujours plus nombreuses de déshérités, nous devons bâtir ensemble, dans tous les pays, une nouvelle  ère de paix, de compréhension, de tolérance et de respect des droits de l'homme. Ce n'est qu'une fois franchies les  barrières de l'ignorance, du fanatisme et des conflits idéologiques, que nous connaîtrons un authentique progrès  économique et civil. L'UNESCO, en étant largement présente dans les sociétés au travers des commissions  nationales, des organisations non gouvernementales et de toute autre expression de la société civile, doit rester au  centre de ce renouvellement.
31.17 En l'an 2001, le monde entier célébrera l'Année des Nations Unies pour le dialogue entre les  civilisations. L'Italie prendra sa part à cette célébration afin que la culture devienne l'instrument fondamental de  ce dialogue, ainsi que d'une solidarité universelle retrouvée. Je vous remercie.
32. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie vivement S. Exc. Mme Patrizia Toia, sous-secrétaire d'Etat aux affaires étrangères de l'Italie,  et lui exprime notre gratitude pour les contributions qu'elle vient d'annoncer. Je donne à présent la parole à  S. Exc. M. Ashk Sadique, ministre de l'éducation du Bangladesh.
33.1 Mr SADIQUE (Bangladesh):'  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I feel  honoured to have the opportunity to address the 30th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I feel  specially privileged to be able to address this Conference for the second time after a lapse of two years since the
29th session of 1997. I convey to this august gathering the compliments and best wishes of Sheikh Hasina, the  honourable Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. Just a month ago, in this hall, our honourable  Prime Minister was awarded the prestigious UNESCO Félix Houphouét-Boigny Peace Prize for 1998. We  believe this award has been given for a just cause and to a deserving personality for ending a quarter of a century  of bloody ethnic conflict which took a heavy toll in innocent lives.
33.2 — TI congratulate the President, Ms Moserovä, on behalf of my delegation and myself, on her assuming this  office of eminence and distinction. We have the firm conviction that her accomplished and gifted leadership will  guide the Conference towards the effective realization of its objectives. I would also like to take this opportunity  to convey our deep appreciation of the attainments of the outgoing President. We thank the Chairperson and the  Members of the Executive Board for efficiently discharging their responsibilities and, especially, for performing  the strenuous job of ensuring the execution of the programmes of the last biennium. Mr President, kindly allow  me the privilege of thanking most profoundly Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General of UNESCO, for his devoted  efforts to realize the objectives of this great Organization. We congratulate him for presenting such a  comprehensive draft of the Programme and Budget for 2000-2001. We extend our warmest felicitations to  Mr Mayor on the successful conclusion of his tenure of office. We fondly and thankfully recall his visit to  Bangladesh in November 1997. We still cherish that visit. I take this opportunity to congratulate and welcome the  next Director-General of UNESCO. We assure him of our continued support and cooperation. On behalf of my  delegation and on my own behalf, I welcome the new Member States which have joined the Organization since  the 29th session of the General Conference.
33.3 Mr President, allow me to focus on the special significance of the 30th session as envisaged by my  delegation. This session is especially significant not only because it is the last to occur this century, but also  because it is taking place at a time when the areas of UNESCO’s concern are undergoing great changes globally.  We have new approaches towards learning, new interpretations of education as enunciated in the landmark  Delors report Learning: The Treasure Within, greater awareness of women regarding their rights and great  emphasis placed on the dignity of the human being. At this critical juncture, we are experiencing breakthroughs  in science and technology which challenge old values and give rise to new moral and ethical questions. The  decisions that will be reached and the recommendations that will be made at this session will shape the plans,  programmes and activities of the Member States.
33.4 We are indeed fortunate to witness the advent of a new millennium. During the past decades, the  dynamics of societal changes have followed their own course. Paradox and new dimensions characterize these  changes. The vision of the world as a global village is blurred by the wars taking place in many parts of the  world. The impact of the globalization of the economies of the world, initiated through the establishment of the  World Trade Organization, is curbed considerably by the exclusion of the deprived and the disadvantaged. On  the one hand we see the march forward of the world women’s community towards realization of their rights and  rightful claims over their lives, bodies and livelihoods; on the other hand, we observe that a large number of  women are victims of atrocious acts. Recent conflicts based on religion, ethnicity and language — both among and  within nations — negate the message of peace. It is against this backdrop that this session is taking place.
33.5 One of the guiding principles of this session, we feel, should be to bring the excluded into the fold of  development so that they, too, share in the advances in all spheres of human activities that the world is  experiencing at present. This is essential for development itself, for human society cannot maintain the tempo of  development while keeping a major part of its membership in darkness, ignorance and deprivation. My  delegation considers that it is the responsibility of this Organization to adopt appropriate policies and strategies  to reach the unreached, to bridge the gap between the privileged and the disadvantaged.
33.6 Mr President, I would now like to take the opportunity to give Bangladesh’s view on the priority  concerns and interests of UNESCO.
33.7 Education is the foundation for all forms of societal development. With obvious justification, education  remains the first priority area of UNESCO. Bangladesh strongly endorses UNESCO?s decision to give absolute  priority to basic education for all in the programmes for 2000-2001. Education being the key tool for promoting  development, the least developed countries with their severely limited resources have no way out but to opt for    The speaker provided the Secretariat with the full text of his statement which, with the authorization of the President,  is reproduced in full in annex to this verbatim record.
159   transforming their vast populations into human capital through proper education and training. UNESCO’s  response to the diverse needs of the Member States for education services through multifaceted programmes and  projects is, therefore, highly appreciated. Bangladesh fully concurs with UNESCO’s concern to ensure that  higher education makes a more substantial contribution to the development of the education system as a whole, as  enunciated in Subprogramme 1.2.3.
33.8 Mr President, in elaborating Major Programme III, “Cultural development: the heritage and creativity”,  it has been concluded that UNESCO will have to reshape its actions in this arena. Such a conclusion is consistent  with the deliberations of the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for Development held in 1998 in  Stockholm, the first World Culture Report also dating from 1998 and the Action Plan approved in Stockholm.  Bangladesh supports UNESCO’s decision to lay stress on indigenous capacity-building, assisting Member States  in designing frameworks for their cultural policies and encouraging training in cultural administration and  management which will follow from the proposed reshaping.
33.9 In this spirit, I draw the kind attention of the Conference to a special resolution submitted by my  delegation for your approval. This concerns declaring 21 February as International Mother Language Day to  honour about 4,000 mother languages in the world. We believe that languages are a most powerful instrument for  preserving and developing the tangible and intangible heritage of every society. The significance of 21 February
1s that on this day in 1952, the entire 45 million people of Bangladesh rose in unison to protest against the  decision of the then rulers that, although Bangla was the language of the majority people of the country, it would  not be given official recognition and would be downgraded against another language. On that very day, four  persons were killed by the security forces shooting at a peaceful, unarmed student demonstration.
33.10 Now, a word about the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. Bangladesh is extremely  happy at the launching of the project, since the attainment of peace is a deep craving of mankind. In whatever  direction and under whatever banner human activities are initiated and carried out, what we are craving for is  peace — peace in mind, peace in body and peace in spirit. We extend our wholehearted support to this project.  We shared in the proclamation of the year 2000 as International Year for the Culture of Peace by the United  Nations General Assembly.
33.11 For Bangladesh, the key tools for realizing our national objectives are human resource development,  poverty eradication, mainstreaming women, empowerment of the poor and participatory development  programmes. The present government, elected in 1996, is in its fourth year of office. The state of affairs in the  political arena of the country furnishes ample proof that the recently established democratic process has gathered  enough momentum to overcome major hindrances on its forward march. The present government, in pursuance  of its constitutional obligations and electoral commitments, is working hard to establish the fundamentals of good  governance, namely accountability to the people, transparency and efficiency in conducting government business  and non-discriminatory dispensation of the laws of the land.
33.12 I recall here the impassioned speech of His Excellency the President of Venezuela, when he quoted a  statement by the Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen that there can be no famine in a democracy. This was very  accurately proved in Bangladesh. During the devastating flood in 1998, affecting two thirds of the country and  lasting for nearly three months, causing heavy damage to crops and stored food, the international news media  issued dire predictions of starvation and death for millions of people, but in actual fact not one single person died  of starvation and disease, as the government distributed food assistance to cover 20 million citizens for nearly  nine months. This was a remarkable achievement of a democratic and people-sensitive government.
33.13 Mr President, let me now recall our actions in the field of primary education. In primary education and  basic literacy Bangladesh has made remarkable progress during the last few years. We expect to overachieve the  EFA targets for gross enrolment and completion rates set for the year 2000. Gross enrolment in 1999 was 96%  against 95% targeted for the year 2000, and the completion rate in 1998 was 65% against the 70% rate targeted  for 2000. This 1s without a doubt a remarkable increase considering that the completion rate was only 40% in
33.14 The basic literacy rate has considerably increased. The present adult (15+) rate is estimated at 58%,  from less than 35% in 1991. We are happy to note that in recognition of our achievements Bangladesh was  awarded a UNESCO literacy award in 1998. In the secondary education subsector, in conformity with the main  line of action “Renewal and diversification of secondary education” of Subprogramme 1.2.2 under Major  Programme I of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-2001, the programme of vocationalization of  secondary education has already started. This measure also serves the purpose of attuning secondary and tertiary  education to science and technology. The other notable achievement in this subsector is the enhancement of the  female participation rate. The female share in total enrolment stands at 48% in 1998 as against only 34% in 1990.
33.15 In order to lay the foundations of a knowledge-based society so as to address development challenges  more effectively, the major objectives of the education sector plan related to the higher education subsector are  as follows: to upgrade the base of scientific/technical and vocational education at all levels of the education  system; to develop higher institutions of learning, namely the general and professional universities and the  institutes of technologies as centres of excellence; to expand specialized and professional education and training  in all relevant fields; and to make admission to higher education needs-based and merit-based as well as cost-  effective.
33.16 Mr President, the process of social development comprises the upliftment of all the sectors of people in  a society in terms of knowledge and material well-being. Considered from this viewpoint, achievement of societal  development in Bangladesh presupposes the establishment of gender parity. In order to address this issue women  have been treated as a distinct target group in all governmental plans and programmes. The National Policy for  Women’s Advancement (NPWA) adopted by the government recently in pursuance of the United Nations Fourth  World Conference on Women, the National Action Plan (NAP) formulated on the basis of the Beijing Platform  for Action, setting the objectives for integrating women in mainstream development efforts in the current five-  year plan reflect the government’s determination to achieve the socio-economic upliftment of women. These  policy measures have been translated into concrete programme packages and projects.
33.17 1 would also like to draw your kind attention to an issue which is of particular interest to countries like  Bangladesh. One of UNESCO’s prime concerns, as enunciated in Major Programme IV entitled “Towards a  communication and information society for all” is to collect and disseminate information with a view to enriching  the knowledge base and enhance the participation of member countries in activity areas of concern to them. As a  part of this programme, Bangladesh strongly recommends the inclusion of information regarding skill and  knowledge market variables in UNESCO activities for collecting and disseminating information. This will be of  the utmost utility to member countries like Bangladesh that suffer from imperfections in the market for skill and  knowledge. In the absence of timely and appropriate information and of an information dissemination  mechanism, it is quite common for underdeveloped countries to have a deficiency of certain types of skills and at  the same time a surplus of other skills. This causes considerable wastage of resources. The inclusion of this area  in the domain of information collection and dissemination activities of UNESCO is therefore suggested so that  relevant information flow within and between Members States is ensured.
33.18 Mr President, in conclusion I would like to reiterate the commitment of Bangladesh to the ideals and  principles of UNESCO. We pledge, as before, all support and cooperation to the Organization. Mr President,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I express my sincere gratitude for your kind and  patient attention. I thank you all.
34. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Ashk Sadique, ministre de l'éducation du Bangladesh, et j'invite S. Exc. le  professeur Kader Asmal, ministre de l'éducation de l'Afrique du Sud, à prendre la parole.
35.1 Mr ASMAL (South Africa):  Mr President, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, comrades, from time to time in the affairs of great  institutions a turning point is reached. This is such a time. The fact that this is the last UNESCO General  Conference session of the twentieth century adds piquancy to our situation.
35.2 As the first streamers of the new century’s dawn brighten the eastern sky, humankind dreams the  millennium dream. It is an old dream, in which human degradation and brutality are banished, chaos gives way to  order and stability and people live their lives in dignity and decency, tolerance and peace, and enjoy the fruits of  human art, inquiry and enterprise.
35.3 UNESCO was born out of such a longing for renewal, in a world brutalized by the horrors of genocide,  of colonialism and slavery, of racism and xenophobia, of carnage and destruction. UNESCO’s founders were  leaders in the worlds of science and letters, as practical as they were idealistic. They believed implicitly that  education, science and culture were adornments of human society. But they had witnessed how skilled and  educated populations could be swept by fanaticism and mobilized for evil, how scientists and artists could be  beguiled by power and co-opted by ideologies rooted in hatred and chauvinism.
35.4 Thus they envisaged a world agency within the new United Nations system that would help construct  what they called the “defences of peace” in the minds of men and women. There is an inspiring statement of the  aims of this Organization, well known to all of us, which appears in the first paragraph of Article I of the  UNESCO Constitution. Like all great emanations of the human spirit, it continues to inform and to challenge us  no matter how often we contemplate its significance. It tells us, firstly, that the preconditions for peace depend
161   upon respect for justice, the rule of law, human rights, fundamental freedoms, and human equality; secondly, that  international collaboration through education, science and culture must advance these developmental values; and  thirdly, that it is UNESCO”s mission to promote such collaboration.
35.5 It is quite clear that the founders of UNESCO intended the Organization to be a bulwark of the highest  civic morality. After more than 50 years of extraordinary endeavour, Member States are recalling UNESCO to its  roots, as we in South Africa are recalling it to its roots. We are testing its programmes, its mode of operation by  the exacting moral criteria that underlie the Constitution of UNESCO.
35.6 The appointment of a new Director-General has given Member States the opportunity to reaffirm the  fundamental purposes of the Organization and the manner in which they expect its business to be conducted more  efficiently at the opening of the new century.
35.7 So as we bid farewell to Federico Mayor, the Director-General, it is impossible for me, a Minister in a  democratic South African government, to be neutral about UNESCQO’s objectives, or indifferent to its future.  Forty years ago, the majority of South Africans, identified by colour, were disenfranchised and the government of  my country was presided over by a fanatical racial bigot, who considered that UNESCO’s ideas on race were  subversive. He was right. UNESCO debunked racial mythology, and pioneered the study of racism as a social  sickness, a social pathology. Racist South Africa then withdrew from UNESCO in a vain attempt to forestall the  influence that the world body might exert on South African opinion.
35.8 Forty years on, after generations of anguish and blood, Verwoerd and his sort are history, and his ideas  of white supremacy have been thoroughly discredited and replaced by the nobler sentiments of reconciliation and  development. South Africa is proud to be back in UNESCO. Mr Mayor did so much to enable us to regain our  patrimony in UNESCO. At this turning point in the life of the Organization, we South Africans still have a direct,  vital and immediate interest in the noble project to construct peace in the minds of men and women.
35.9 Our democracy in South Africa has the vigour and vulnerability of youth. We have successfully  navigated our second non-racial democratic election. Our Constitution entrenches a real and comprehensive Bill  of Rights, protects the fundamental freedoms of all persons, and establishes impressive institutional defences  against human rights violations and the misuse of power. Our truth and reconciliation process has exposed the  depravity of the period from which we have emerged, and brought victim and violator face to face. Our laws have  abolished all forms of unfair discrimination; our press is free. Our courts are independent. Our civil institutions  flourish. Our great cultural and physical assets have now become part of the world’s heritage and we intend to  play a full part in their protection.
35.10 And yet, we dare not be complacent. Three centuries of colonialism and half a century of apartheid have  left a cruel legacy of gross inequality, corruption and interpersonal violence that bedevil our transition. Nowhere  is the full brunt of inequality felt as it is in education. Inequality perpetuates the poverty, the illegitimacy and the  deprivation of large parts of our common humanity.
35.11 In 1994 we were indeed a house divided, yet we joined hands to pull our nation back from the very pit  of destruction. Today, the democratic government at all levels and the institutions of civil society are working  together to rekindle the spark of non-racialism and integrity which were the hallmarks of our liberation struggle.  A mobilization of the human spirit and conscience is under way, to re-establish the plain, essential virtues and  values of integrity and public interest, and to re-instil the qualities of commitment and hard work, especially in  our schools. This is what Mr Nelson Mandela has referred to as the “RDP of the soul”, the reconstruction and  development of a new moral order through transformation of all our institutions and our minds, and educating us  for our diversity.
35.12 While the global phenomenon presupposes interdependence and a common intellectual and commercial  interest among the peoples of the world, the sickening ethnic wars and genocides of the current period tell us a  different story. While technology and international agreements build the sinews of our one world, the purveyors  of hatred and xenophobia insist that human diversity is an evil to be resisted.
35.13 One does not have to espouse a particular religion to be moved and alarmed by the profound millennial  symbolism of W.B. Yeats’ Second Coming:  The darkness drops again; but now I know  That twenty centuries of stony sleep  Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle,  And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,
162   Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?
35.14 After the most savage of conflicts against race-obsessed military empires, UNESCO was created to  mobilize the intellectual, scientific and cultural power of the international community in order to advance respect  for universal human liberty and justice. So the reassertion of ethnic chauvinism and the elevation to power of  chauvinistic political parties, especially in the very continent which first proclaimed the rights of man, is a  phenomenon that we in UNESCO must observe with intense concern and combat with all our power.
35.15 It is therefore fitting that a non-racial and democratic South Africa has offered to host, in 2001, the first  United Nations World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination and Xenophobia.
35.16 The Government of South Africa aligns itself with the movement of renewal and transformation in the  organs of international collaboration: in the Southern African Development Community, the Organization of  African Unity, the United Nations and particularly its agencies, including UNESCO.
35.17 Tt is a simple but powerful truth that these bodies can lead the world system only by example. It is now  obvious that the motive power of the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of UNESCO is an  ethical vision of human society and a belief in mutual human interdependence, of the equality of men and  women, in particular. If we fail to drive UNESCQO’s programme by these shared values the Organization will be  eroded by self-interest and self-absorption. If UNESCO does not keep its own house in order it will not deserve  the public respect on which its influence depends. If UNESCO does no refocus its limited resources on its core  business, it will dissipate them in feeble posturing.
35.18 For us in Africa, the regeneration of our continent involves a renaissance in the very core areas of  UNESCO’s work. This is the millennial challenge to our great Organization, and to each one of us. Siyabonga!  As we say in South Africa. I thank you.
36. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Exc. le professeur Kader Asmal, ministre de l'éducation de l'Afrique du Sud. Nous allons  écouter à présent la dernière intervention de ce matin, celle de S. Exc. M. Tassilo Ogrinz, ambassadeur, délégué  permanent de l'Autriche auprès de l'UNESCO.
37.1 Mr OGRINZ (Austria):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  may I first of all congratulate Ms Moserovâ on her election as President of this session.
37.2 This statement should actually have been delivered by the Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellery,  Mr Wittmann. He is unfortunately ill and, to his deep regret, unable to attend this Conference. I have therefore  the privilege to speak on his behalf.
37.3 During the last Board meeting I already had an opportunity to pay tribute to Director-General Federico  Mayor. I do not want to miss this occasion to thank him once again for his outstanding leadership and all he has  done for this Organization during his 12-year tenure. May I also extend my best wishes to Ambassador Koichiro  Matsuura whose name has been submitted by the Board for approval by the General Conference as the incoming  Director-General. UNESCO now has 188 Member States. I cordially welcome Palau and Micronesia which have  joined the Organization this autumn.
37.4 Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the twenty-first century, we should recall our Organization’s  fundamental mission, which is to sustain its intellectual and ethical role in a radically changing world, to further  the principles of freedom and equality, to promote human rights and to foster respect for human dignity. In spite  of increasing globalization and networking, shortcomings and deficiencies in international cooperation persist. I  am confident that, with the help of UNESCO, we will have a better chance of filling these gaps in the future.
37.5 Of course, Austria will continue to support UNESCO’s efforts to facilitate international cooperation in  the fields of education, science and culture in an atmosphere of open dialogue. The international conference  entitled “Culture Counts” held recently in Florence under the aegis of the World Bank is a good example of such  cooperation.
37.6 Mr President, providing adequate education for all throughout life remains a major challenge for all  governments. Austria has redefined her own objectives in this area, notably by including the promotion of  computer literacy as another basic element of education and culture. A high rate of employment, known to  enhance social cohesion and thus improve economic and political stability, should be obtained with the help of a
163   system of vocational training open to people from all social strata, offering a wide variety of courses and  programmes. At the Congress in Seoul last April, UNESCO already set the course for reinforcing this field of  education. As there must be an awareness in education of the challenges currently arising in society, Austria  attaches particular importance to civic education on all levels, ranging from active participation in current  developments in one’s own country to the concept of global citizenship.
37.7 In view of education’s crucial role for peace, stability and democracy, Austria has launched a major  initiative in cooperation with countries of south-eastern Europe. During last year’s Austrian European Union  presidency, we succeeded in promoting and focusing European education projects and programmes for this  region. This effort has led to a multitude of activities commonly termed the “Graz Process” which is coordinated  by a special Task Force under our chairmanship. UNESCO, the European Union, a host of other organizations  and States all participate in this effort. Furthermore, the Task Force cooperates with major foundations, such as  the George Soros Foundation and the European Cultural Foundation. These endeavours can set a good example.  In our view, all initiatives for economic support should be complemented by educational and cultural  programmes.
37.8 Mr President, we all remember discussing the relationship between development and culture at last  year’s Conference in Stockholm. We realized that culture permeates all areas of everyday life, and I hold this to  be one of the most important conclusions of that Conference. But although the results of Stockholm were  certainly encouraging, it seems crucial to me that reflection on this important issue should be kept up in the  future. Accordingly, I wish to confirm our invitation to a summit in Vienna in the year 2002 — an event that,  needless to say, requires careful preparation. The Vienna Summit will aim to consolidate what has been achieved  and add momentum to a concept that is, after all, fairly new.
37.9 Ladies and gentlemen, Austria also believes that UNESCO should take decisive action to promote  contemporary art, inter alia through sociocultural projects and activities involving the new technologies.
37.10 Now I cannot think of a more symbolic and forward-looking way to celebrate the turn of the millennium  than by proclaiming the International Year for the Culture of Peace. We are particularly proud to add that, in  May 2000, a European Museum of Peace will open under the auspices of UNESCO in the Austrian town of  Schlaining.
37.11 Mr President, the worldwide reflection on global ethics currently under way within the framework of  UNESCO is of great and immediate importance. Austria supported this process at the Vienna conference on  “Globality and Universal Ethics — Illusion or Reality?” held in June this year.
37.12 Austria also welcomes UNESCO?s efforts to preserve the world document heritage and to enhance  public awareness of the fragility of documents. However, in our opinion, the funds allocated to the relatively new  Memory of the World programme are not sufficient.
37.13 Another new area for action would be the establishment of geoparks — an interesting and promising  approach that would take us much further back into the past and into the history of our earth than other  programmes.
37.14 Ido not wish to end my statement without emphasizing once again that we attach particular importance  to the universality of this Organization. UNESCO will remain inherently incomplete as long as it cannot count  the United States of America among its members. Thank you very much for your attention.
38. Le PRESIDENT :  Merci, Excellence. Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons épuisé la liste des orateurs pour ce  matin. Nous nous retrouverons cet après-midi à 15 heures pour la suite du débat de politique générale. La séance  est levée.  La séance est levée à 14 h.5  The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 14.05