Vingt et unieme séance plénière
13 novembre 1999 à 10 h.25  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : M. ZLENKO (Ukraine)  puis : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twenty-first plenary meeting
13 November 1999 at 10.25 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Mr ZLENKO (Ukraine)  later: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Vigésima primera sesiôn plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of a quorum I shall suspend the meeting for five minutes.  (The meeting is suspended for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the twenty-first plenary meeting of the General Conference. As I  announced in plenary yesterday, I should now like to present to the General Conference the recommendations  made by the General Committee at its eighth meeting yesterday. The General Committee recommended to the  General Conference a calendar for the final phase of the work of the General Conference for the period beginning  on Monday, 15 November and ending with the closing of the session on 17 November. You will find the details  in document 30 C/INF.46 before you. Are there any comments regarding the organization of this session’s final  phase? I see none. The recommendation of the General Committee is accordingly adopted.
1.3 The General Committee also made a recommendation to the General Conference concerning the  organization of today’s meeting devoted to the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. It is  proposed to the General Conference that the meeting should start with oral reports by the chairpersons of the  programme commissions on debates that took place on this subject in their commissions. The floor may then be  opened for substantive statements by delegations, which would focus on the International Year for the Culture of  Peace and the implementation of the Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace adopted by the United Nations  General Assembly. Lastly, it is recommended to the plenary that it adopt the proposed resolution in para-  graph 05100 of document 30 C/5 relating to the International Year for the Culture of Peace and the resolution  proposed by the Executive Board in paragraph 27 of document 30 C/6, which covers the whole of the  transdisciplinary project. Are there any comments or observations? There are none. The recommendation of the  General Committee is accordingly adopted.  EXAMEN DU PROJET TRANSDISCIPLINAIRE "VERS UNE CULTURE DE LA PAIX"  EXAMINATION OF THE TRANSDISCIPLINARY PROJECT “TOWARDS A CULTURE OF PEACE”  EXAMEN DEL PROYECTO TRANSDISCIPLINARIO “HACIA UNA CULTURA DE PAZ”  PACCMOTPEHHE TPAHC/HCIHIDIHHAPHOTO ITPOEKTA «HA IVTH K KYJILTYPE MHPA»  "hdl US 93" DLAA5 ill Gy J Sud pg pd! dol yo  HINES FFE “ERE SAL”
2. We now turn to the only item on this morning’s agenda, which is the examination of the  transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. The different programme commissions have already  discussed the various aspects of this project, except for the main line of action concerning the celebration of the  International Year for the Culture of Peace. In order to hear what the commissions had to say on the subject of  the culture of peace, I shall ask the Chairpersons of Programme Commissions II, III, IV and V to report on the  debates that took place in their meetings on this project. I now invite the Chairperson of Commission II to take  the floor.
3.1 Mr MOLNAR (Slovakia), Chairperson of Commission II:  Madam President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I have pleasure in presenting the report of the  debate of Commission II concerning the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. The debate  generated considerable interest from participants who were favourably impressed by the Global Strategy related  to Human Rights Education for a Culture of Peace and specific measures for this as proposed in document
3.2 Our Commission was very appreciative of the overall policy orientation, of the programme activities  already launched or foreseen and particularly of the transdisciplinary approach proposed. This theme is extremely  relevant and the choice of peace constitutes, according to many delegates, the best inspiration to face the new  millennium where the conflicts, violence and frustrations which impact negatively on our global village must be  resolved. Naming the year 2000 as International Year for the Culture of Peace shows 1t to be an aim shared by all  and a wonderful impetus for civilization. It calls for concerted action and should certainly lead to practical ideas
610   and concrete projects which should be characterized by peaceful, critical and thoughtful behaviour amongst all  people. The Commission strongly insisted on a vision of a culture of peace which has its foundation in a simple  proclamation of general and positive principles. These should permeate the community and the classroom and  should guide the learning experience at every level of education and training.
3.3 UNESCO is on the right track. The strategies which underpin the activities under way or foreseen should  be viewed positively - they are not merely a catalogue of good intentions for the teaching of values in schools;  rather, they are designed to lead to integrated national policies and practices covering all subsectors of education.  The Commission complimented the Education Sector on its efforts to reorient and regroup ongoing activities in  an integrated approach in conformity with the recommendations of the Executive Board. The content of  programmes and projects in education for human rights, tolerance, democracy and international understanding  received special approval. Many delegates felt that the dynamism and innovative character of the ever-growing  network of Associated Schools, which contributes to the culture of peace and is creating a strong momentum,  should not, however, result in a loss of educational quality. Multilingual education as well as physical education  and sport constitute important elements in the overall strategy of the transdisciplinary project, debated by the  Commission. The representative of the Inuit Circumpolar Conference and Indigenous Peoples emphasized that  cultural and ethnic challenges comprise both opportunities and responsibilities and stated that pluralism must be  both the foundation and the pillar of social cohesion.
3.4 The activities under way permeate and give character to the entire Education Sector. The strategy for a  culture of peace in education aims at encouraging action plans in favour of young children; it covers sport and the  work of the Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (CIGEPS), whose new orientation is  strongly characterized by the principle of tolerance; the strategy also seeks a real articulation between the culture  of peace and UNESCO’s fields of competence, education, science, culture and communication. It is aimed at  young people in the formal education system without forgetting those who are excluded through lack of access. It  recognizes the necessity for a reform of educational programmes, whose content should be based on practical  experiences in and out of school designed to promote a better civic spirit. It advocates gender-specific  approaches and is particularly concerned with disadvantaged groups - the handicapped, the poor, those excluded  from education, minorities that are culturally or linguistically oppressed, and the victims of war or the occupation  of their territory.
3.5 The measures envisaged go beyond the transmission of knowledge since they aim at generating a  constant questioning of the status quo; more particularly they seek to transform social behaviour with a view to  promoting peace and the capacity to live together. Several participants strongly insisted on the need for a  coherent and holistic approach in which human rights would underpin all types of teaching and serve as an ethical  filter that would imbue the content and orient the objectives of education.
3.6 Many Member States presented initiatives under way in their countries to promote the culture of peace  through education. For example, the Republic of Korea requested the Commission’s support for the  establishment of an Asia-Pacific Centre for International Understanding. Australia referred to a specific project  on peace education in South Australia, France spoke of its programme in Civic Education and Human Rights.  Canada tabled four strategies for peace education. New Zealand stressed the importance of exchanging and  sharing best practices. Several other countries, notably Belarus, Georgia, Mexico, Peru, the Russian Federation  and Ukraine, considered that multilingual education is an excellent way of contributing to a culture of peace.  From these debates emanated an urgent call to reject verbal criticism and mere reflection in favour of positive  action to promote peace by targeting concrete results, such as the Flame of Peace in Mali, the Moratorium on  Light Weapons in West Africa, the University of Peace in Costa Rica and the Inter-American Institute for Human  Rights. Many commented on the need to establish national programmes and plans related to education for a  culture of peace and, in particular, on the importance of national action plans to develop human rights education.  The support of UNESCO in these areas was requested. Certain countries (notably Germany, Canada, Costa Rica,  Côte d’Ivoire, Finland, France and the Netherlands) referred to the impetus given by the recommendations of the  Executive Board on the Strategy for Human Rights Education. Others, including Canada, Spain and Finland,  praised the work of the Consultative Committee on Education for Peace, Human Rights, Democracy,  International Understanding and Tolerance. It also emerged that the fight against poverty, inequality and social  exclusion (as mentioned by Algeria, Cuba, Ecuador, Hungary and the United Republic of Tanzania), the specific  needs of excluded groups such as refugees and immigrants and their right to education, and the particular  situation of indigenous peoples, constitute key elements of a true policy in human rights education.
3.7 Several delegates (Barbados, Romania, Norway and Uzbekistan) drew attention to the impressive  educational innovations of the pilot projects of the Associated Schools such as the “Young People’s World  Heritage Education Project”, “Breaking the Silence on Teaching about the Transatlantic Slave Trade” and the  Caribbean Sea project. These have resulted in creative educational materials such as the Peace Pack and the  World Heritage Education Kit. A number of delegates (Denmark, Iceland and Tunisia) suggested wider use of
21   electronic media, such as the Internet, to disseminate the prototypes of these materials and thus optimize their  impact. The link between peace, democracy and sustainable development is a reality and the “3 Ps Strategy”  (participation, prevention and protection) described by the Netherlands addresses the need to transform  educational policies and practices and make the school a violence-free haven of mutual respect. Such ideas as  changing the culture of the school and of the classroom (as advocated by Barbados), the development of  intellectual and emotional resilience (as articulated by Australia) and the disarmament of history (Germany,  Spain, Greece, Portugal) all relate to the same objective: to free children and young people from the dangers  arising from a sense of being different.
3.8 While praising the re-establishment of links between education, the culture of peace and lifelong  learning, in order to learn to live together, the Commission enhance the draft 30 C/13 document with the  following proposals: first, the necessity to train creative educators, real disciples who will promote the principles  of solidarity, fraternity and the right of each individual and each nation to look forward to a future marked by  dignity and respect; second, the development of human rights education is not the responsibility of UNESCO  alone. It should be shared by all Member States and serve as an inspiration and contribution to the Decade for  Human Rights Education and other projects of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;  thirdly, since human rights are universal and indivisible, human rights education is about the education of active  and critical citizens, the promotion of intercultural dialogue and learning about democracy; last but not least,  human rights education should be considered as one of the duties of older people to hand down a living memory  of history to the young and thus as part of an intergenerational approach in the spirit of the Declaration adopted  by the World Parliament of Children. Thank you very much.
4. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Molnar. I now invite the Chairperson of Commission III to take the floor.
5.1 Mr LUGUIJO (Uganda), Chairperson of Commission III:  Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as Chairperson  of Commission III, which examined Major Programme II, Sciences in the service of development, I have the  pleasure to report on the rich debate on the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”.
5.2 The Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences, Ms Fournier, pointed out that it is quite  natural that special attention is paid to the important links and contributions which science and technology can  provide to a culture of peace. She endorsed the reflection by the Netherlands delegate that the advancement of  peace and projects in this area of conflict management and peace-building are at the heart of UNESCO’s mission.  The delegate of France underlined that ethical reflection is mainly based on human rights, democracy and  tolerance.
5.3 The Transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace” received wide support from Member States  during the debate. Some of them, such as Germany, Norway, and Israel, stated that all activities of this project,  with reference to paragraphs 02901 and 05102, should be implemented in conformity with the United Nations  Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace. This Programme was adopted by the United Nations General  Assembly on 13 September 1999, and had been recommended by the previous session of the Executive Board.  While many delegations indicated that further reflection on, and clarification of, the concept of a “culture of  peace” is desirable, several participants underlined the need to concentrate on concrete actions in the fields of  human rights, peace, democracy and tolerance at local and national levels, involving all civil society.
5.4 Madam President, it was the general view that the implementation of this project requires closer  intersectoral cooperation, particularly among the Science, Education and Social and Human Sciences Sectors.  Moreover, many States called for further development of partnership between UNESCO and other relevant  intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental organizations and scientific and training institutions among  others.
5.5 A large number of delegations emphasized the role of UNESCO Chairs in human rights, peace,  democracy and tolerance in promoting education aimed at the development of a culture of peace, and called for  strengthened cooperation between UNESCO and these Chairs. These delegations, in particular that of the  Netherlands, also encouraged training of professionals with special responsibilities in this field such as  parliamentarians, magistrates, the media and educators, in order to ensure a multiplier effect and to improve  governance at the national level. Several speakers underlined the need to focus on non-formal education,  especially civics education. UNESCO’s publications on human rights, democracy, peace and tolerance were  welcomed by a number of delegates, such as the delegate of Nigeria, who stressed the need to disseminate these  materials widely and to translate them into various languages.
5.6 Madam President, the importance of UNESCO?s assistance in promoting and consolidating democracy  and good governance, including the provision of support to national and regional research and policy action, was  noted by several countries. These countries, in particular Pakistan, Lebanon, Malawi and Israel, also stated that  inter-religious dialogue has a central role to play in the promotion of tolerance, non-violence and a culture of  peace.
5.7 The delegate of Italy, as well as a number of other delegates, encouraged UNESCO to make a  substantial contribution to the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination,  Xenophobia and Related Intolerance and to the preparation of the United Nations World Conference on this  subject, to be held in South Africa in 2001, and to mention it in the Approved Programme and Budget for 2000-
5.8 Strong emphasis was placed on the continued fight for gender equality, egalitarian partnerships and the  strengthening of women’s roles as promoters of a culture of peace. Many speakers voiced support and  commitment in favour of awareness-raising among women as to their own rights to participate in decision-  making, conflict resolution, social transformation, and the building of true democracies and a culture of peace. In  this context, many delegations from Africa, like Namibia, the United Republic of Tanzania, Sudan and Botswana,  called for a substantial follow-up and implementation of the Zanzibar Declaration of African Women’s  Contribution to a Culture of Peace. The fundamental and innovative contribution that youth could bring to the  promotion of a culture of peace was specially noted and there was an appeal for specific actions concerning  young people’s and children’s needs. The need to increase the preparation of didactic and other teaching  materials as well as youth mobilization in cooperation with the Associated Schools Project network, was strongly  supported, in particular by Norway.
5.9 Jamaica and others emphasized the necessity of enhancing UNESCO?s activities in the field of tolerance  and non-violence in Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa. Many delegations insisted on the need to reinforce  the regional networks for tolerance and non-violence in Latin America, the Caribbean and Africa. Some delegates  spoke about concrete projects in their countries as a contribution to the implementation of the Declaration of  Principles on Tolerance and in celebrating the International Day for Tolerance (16 November).
5.10 Finally, Madam President, many participants expressed their will to make a meaningful contribution to  the International Year for the Culture of Peace (2000), the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education
(1995-2004) and the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World
(2001-2010). In this context, they called for UNESCO’s support in these endeavours.
5.11 At the conclusion of this debate, Ms Fournier, Assistant Director-General for Social and Human  Sciences, expressed her gratitude for the general support of Commission III for the transdisciplinary project  “Towards a culture of peace” and specifically for the social and human sciences part of this project. She referred  to the recent adoption by the United Nations General Assembly of the Declaration and Programme of Action on a  Culture of Peace and indicated that this would provide a new impetus to concrete action to spread the ideals of a  culture of peace worldwide. I thank you, Madam President.
6. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you, Mr Lugujjo for the work done and for the presentation. I now invite the Chairperson of  Commission IV to take the floor.
7.1 M. VASSILIKOS (Grèce), Président de la Commission IV :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, j'ai  l'honneur de vous présenter un bref aperçu des travaux menés cette semaine par la Commission IV sur le projet  transdisciplinaire "Vers une culture de la paix".
7.2 Tout d'abord, je voudrais vous informer que la Commission n'a pas traité ce projet transdisciplinaire  séparément. Les orateurs s'y sont référés dans le cadre d'un méme débat qui portait a la fois sur le grand  programme III, "Développement culturel : patrimoine et création”, et le projet transdisciplinaire "Vers une  culture de la paix". La Commission s'est prononcée sur deux points de son ordre du jour qui relèvent directement  de l'unité 3 du projet transdisciplinaire "Vers une culture de la paix" : le point 4.10, "Préparation par l'UNESCO  de l'Année des Nations Unies pour le dialogue entre les civilisations", et le point 4.11, "La traite négrière  transatlantique et l'esclavage : un crime contre l'humanité".
7.3 Il ressort de ces débats que le concept de culture de la paix est aujourd'hui profondément ancré dans le  programme relatif à la culture. C'est ainsi que certains orateurs s'y sont notamment référés au moment d'évoquer  les questions se rapportant au patrimoine matériel et immatériel et celles qui ont trait aux cultures vivantes. À ce
21   titre, de nombreux orateurs ont salué l'Appel solennel du Directeur général en faveur de la promotion de  l'éducation artistique et de la créativité à l'école, dans le cadre de l'édification d'une culture de la paix. Un projet  de résolution a été recommandé à cet égard pour approbation par la Conférence générale. Enfin, la problématique  de la culture de la paix et les actions contenues dans le programme ont été elles aussi maintes fois rappelées dans  le cadre du débat 3 sur l'UNESCO au XXIe siècle.
7.4 De nombreux orateurs ont souligné le fait que l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, en déclarant  l'année 2001 "Année des Nations Unies pour le dialogue entre les civilisations", avait choisi de confier à  l'UNESCO le soin de coordonner la célébration de cette année en raison de son expérience en matière de  dialogue interculturel. Presque tous les délégués ont reconnu le rôle fédérateur important de l'UNESCO dans la  promotion d'une nouvelle vision du pluralisme culturel et de la diversité culturelle face à la mondialisation.  Beaucoup d'entre eux ont insisté sur la nécessité d'instaurer un nouveau dialogue interculturel en tant que facteur  de la paix.
7.5 Certains intervenants, dont les représentants de l'Allemagne, du Danemark, de la France, de la  République tchèque et du Royaume-Uni, ont estimé que l'UNESCO n'avait pas à s'occuper de questions  religieuses, son Acte constitutif ne faisant pas mention d'un tel mandat. D'autres ont fait valoir que le dialogue  interreligieux était, au contraire, un des aspects du dialogue interculturel puisque les cultures intègrent toutes une  dimension religieuse. Dans sa réponse à l'issue du débat, le Sous-Directeur général pour la culture a fait observer  que le pluralisme comme valeur signifie la reconnaissance, l'acceptation, le respect et la promotion de la diversité  culturelle et que c'est ainsi que l'UNESCO, sans vouloir s'occuper des religions elles-mêmes, lie intimement le  dialogue interreligieux au dialogue interculturel. C'est pourquoi le projet relatif au dialogue interreligieux, qui  comprend notamment les projets "Routes de la foi" et "Routes d'al-Andalus", s'intitule dans le 30 C/5  "Convergence spirituelle et dialogue interculturel”.
7.6 Les orateurs ont par ailleurs souligné le rôle de la ville et des collectivités locales ainsi que le défi que  représente l'urbanisation accélérée et relevé l'intérêt à cet égard du prix UNESCO Villes pour la paix et du Prix  international Mélina Mercouri pour la sauvegarde et la gestion des paysages culturels.
7.7 Un accent particulier a été mis sur la nécessité de reconsidérer la place accordée aux cultures  autochtones dans les programmes de l'UNESCO, à mi-parcours de la Décennie internationale des populations  autochtones du monde. Il a été suggéré de créer un groupe de travail chargé de dresser, avec des représentants  des populations autochtones, un plan d'action relatif à leurs besoins et de définir des principes directeurs  éthiques, en étroite coopération avec les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies.
7.8 De nombreux intervenants ont appuyé les projets internationaux s'inscrivant dans un cadre régional en  vue d'une meilleure connaissance réciproque. À leur avis, ces projets doivent également être porteurs de  tolérance et de valeurs éthiques et se traduire par une action claire en faveur de la construction d'une paix  durable. Le projet "Dialogue interculturel Est-Ouest en Asie centrale”, qui fait suite au projet des "Routes de la  soie : routes de dialogue” et qui est à l'origine de la mise en place d'instituts internationaux et de chaires  UNESCO pour la culture de la paix, en est un bon exemple et a recueilli le soutien de plusieurs membres de la  Commission.
7.9 Au cours du débat, plusieurs pays ont exprimé leur soutien au projet "La route de l'esclave”, qui  comprend le projet de Mémorial de Gorée-Almadies. A cet égard, le projet de résolution sur "La traite négrière  transatlantique et l'esclavage : un crime contre l'humanité” a été recommandé pour approbation par la Conférence  générale.
7.10 Les délégués ont également abordé les projets d'histoires au titre de la contribution de l'histoire à la  culture de la paix. Certains délégués ont souligné, à la lumière des résultats des réunions régionales d'historiens  d'Europe centrale et d'Afrique, l'importance qu'il convient d'accorder aux recherches historiques propres à  promouvoir le dialogue interculturel et la culture de la paix. Ils ont insisté, en particulier, sur la nécessité de créer  des réseaux d'historiens et de procéder à la révision des manuels scolaires en vue de favoriser la compréhension  mutuelle entre les peuples et les nations. À cet égard, le Congrès de PROCEED tenu à Visby sur la reformulation  des manuels scolaires des pays balkaniques a été spécialement salué. Dans la même optique, de nombreux  délégués ont souligné qu'il fallait achever dans les meilleurs délais les projets d'histoires générales et régionales  et ont invité le Secrétariat à prendre les dispositions nécessaires à cet effet, notamment en inscrivant ces projets  dans le 30 C/5 et en mettant au point une stratégie de mobilisation des ressources. C'est dans cet esprit qu'un  délégué, exprimant l'attachement des pays de sa région à l'Histoire des civilisations de l'Asie centrale, a déclaré :  "Un peuple qui n'a pas d'histoire n'a ni passé ni futur". L'espoir de voir rapidement achevée l'Histoire de  l'Amérique latine a par ailleurs été formulé.
7.11 En conclusion, je peux confirmer que les Etats membres ont souligné avec force leur volonté de voir  l'UNESCO oeuvrer en faveur de la préservation de la diversité culturelle qui est la richesse de l'humanité face a  la mondialisation. Pour ce faire, l'UNESCO devra à la fois protéger et encourager le dialogue entre les cultures et  intégrer cette dimension pluriculturelle dans le monde de l'information et de l'éducation. Comme je l'ai rappelé au  cours des débats, la proclamation par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, dans la résolution A/53/243  qu'elle a adoptée le 13 septembre 1999, de l'an 2000 " Année internationale de la culture de la paix" constitue une  grande réussite de ce programme, une grande réussite pour l'UNESCO et plus particulièrement pour son  Directeur général. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank you for your excellent report, and I now invite the Chairperson of Commission V  to take the floor.  : (duo (3 Laddl Lud) (Glad) bladl sud! 4,0  ipa cpxoll pll all sd! (ogizall Jail dandy Sad! cpa Jl pes Jl AD py  sell 58 LUI 55 olsT of J lamas! cho l5 If Lal) Lud) hoy (Boludly colo] «0 Boll cry gail  ize 3237 mld) ad J ols ll Leal) SUN Led mayo 1 lala) sLST DL BG, dill  PEU Bly joa Dilaill BU Ligh wip Ole, SUIS wpa! meal) wlsally Jlasy|  plosa¥l amd Lair VX 9 850 5 11 gill cmd Jo VI ABUL) cn ,S 559 ald! BU jes à dla  mil Ba 0) oll pall lal wr SANT cy le SWE L830 § has ST 5,900  i lad gods Lilatal (LSI Laginub Gus de cOUSEUII pole wlsl 559 "adludly Dbl alls  ey Aalail) Sssdl AST of sll all ss oST Dalal Shag ode ¥l Slug Gosh 08 POI BS  Ll! Dpmandl Gasisl GMI LUI xo Lb Lob! pans Lgibslgy AE Bly Gab oo pd BUS  Legare oo pl BUS” ol Js vais poll Blas Jai 0e Jarl dag ode olay 1,550 Basal po  Lp dap JS 3 py aly! JI 5 Sad! cullely Jel! blaly ality CBlslly pill os  loglall Jplas Ly> play dy bly! Lis pd) BU Wels Laid!” oly CAES STMg anil
225 SIT SI 590), ryder Jedd! Abd 5 CUS JI BLoYLy ley pSV 55059 > Lidl mex Je  SoU Ila pes JI Gaol JI UASII a Lepage Leo Vo Boll 39559 pO] BUS 3305 5 sus  LS 592 sult pla! pall fos bY conall 3a dy pS BS JT 5e Byllls wloglall Jah 55  qobll of (sass dl CAblaally pail] Ly Bang oll pall sole Ban 0S Le gag «madi  laws! ou Spall peal poll pain! (Suis) Jb] olen] gel Jai ga ll guns]  Tags 3,,Shs 89m slasl Jos Sas dis Bl Lo gas de V5, ¢ dibs] S 42003 pd! BUS gu”  pall lise Ge 5S das LIST gli LIN Jal oo JlasWl Lal! Lad Gus 3305 38 US a
3 giga de plan] la 585 cpassll 13a lo pgslisdaiy pglS 1900] 0951 gfandiag sLiasdl  BI JI pols arg pil Old! BE Ladd SY Bley pies dow à Lebisl iss ols  Ls? pla ps Yaw  Ales UST AJ Il dla ll JS 5,0 Blows 5507 J] dab! Ve pfasill oo dS ST CNT AN  B95 pad Lad gl bls § dial! PHEN Blog wo GMI pled! eal Le Spa coll Bole]  Lund JI bY an] GS LL 13m ob (3 oo bao LSy 33lade ud 35a ould! Sd) loglal  ob sonal! Leo lis IY Las ols a Bull cdl lil (sue Je sSdsdl Ly call J)  SU oll 0247 Gani] 559 SAS ola Ce Wylie Sb ger) Sb pe bas poke los Bad
21   Wasy «,I3530 gall dy STI lsat LBly «lial Go (odo À Cnminall Go pS ASS sly  gi LY GLEN JySs5y ll Ge VA SOUS § 595 LSE mia! JE pha Uke pal all dll  GI ily a) Ge pétSaiy Onis pals Guinn] J] BU EN ST Gal plagl 5 Ge”  ULAI 03e dll sell Jools oF do Sud! fami Sas amy L'appel Le pis 1 Alba  pel Blog wlabio ms 3891 OplIL  On ASAI pede GE LuosSadl pub Laits slas¥l Joadl Jies CLIS § Guan UE AE  Plog gpd) Jad! à LosSodl ud laid! go yiSHly LuogSadl Lal! LAB Ge buds 3S sll  gall LB 515 olay bis oe PEU Ploy whois wypely ell) bli § Ain dl pole)  dol DEAN OYE Blog) poll pass Go Nay p31 bls § Les ols pH! 31a slash LuoySadl  ple co Llib à sSdsl ose, SUIS poil BSUS plain cud JI p 90st Dll oùe Ji gus  Ball Lad JW psdl Jina law 3 cir GY  BE Jal po pel Ploy piel lola! Lens Jo Suindl 53S 05 la 13]; 45  Od BUS 3505 Jl 05 Doped] Las! 51 Logibll SY Blog wilson gles] Jeg odd
5e onl dus) Joe JSS dell] il Gaede Lois opmshd Joly BLAS say «peludlly
(9.1) Mr AL-MASHAT (Iraq), Chairperson of Commission V (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as Chairperson of Commission V, I should like to  read the Commission’s report on items relating to the culture of peace. During the meetings at which the  Commission considered Major Programme IV, “Towards a communication and information society for all”, there  were two major debates, and a number of the points raised in the course of those debates had to do with the role  played by the information and communication media in strengthening the culture of peace. The first debate was  devoted to consideration of paragraphs 3.3, 4.5 and 7.6, while the second was concerned more particularly with  paragraph 3.3, which relates to Subprogramme IV.1.1, “Freedom of expression, democracy and peace”. These two  debates, inevitably, devoted considerable attention to the question of strengthening the culture of peace through the  information media. From the outset, the Director-General’s representative emphasized that UNESCO’s activities  relating to strengthening the culture of peace through and by means of the information media were fully consistent  with the resolution recently adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the Declaration and  Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, which states that “A culture of peace is a set of values, attitudes,  traditions and modes of behaviour and ways of life based on … respect for and promotion of the rights of everyone  to freedom of expression, opinion and information”, and “The fuller development of a culture of peace is integrally  linked to … ensuring the free flow of information at all levels and enhancing access thereto”. Moreover, the  Programme of Action clearly acknowledges the pioneering role played by UNESCO in strengthening the culture of  peace. Article 15 of the Programme of Action sets forth a number of activities aimed at supporting participatory  communication and the free flow of information and knowledge for a culture of peace. In that connection, the  Director-General’s representative remarked (and his remarks were subsequently reiterated by the Assistant  Director-General in charge of the Unit for Freedom of Expression and Democracy, Mr Modoux) that Major  Programme IV was the first programme expressly to recall, in the context of UNESCO, the transdisciplinary  project “Towards a culture of peace” and to incorporate it in its activities, as repeatedly suggested by a number of  Member States. The objective here is to strengthen the coordination of activities concerned with communication for  peace. Many representatives of Member States and other speakers took the floor to comment on this issue, and  ultimately a consensus emerged in favour of support for the continuation and strengthening of UNESCO?s  activities aimed at putting the media into the service of a culture of peace. I should like to mention three areas that  aroused particular interest in that connection.
(9.2) First, referring to areas of conflict, many speakers emphasized the need for a free press during the  transition period and during reconstruction, to strengthen the important role played by independent media in areas  of conflict in making unbiased information available to the local residents. As was rightly observed, this has been  one of the main activities carried out by UNESCO over the past six years. Concurrently, its programme of support  for the media has grown steadily and has attracted increased support, both financial and non-financial, from a  variety of sources. These resources have been applied to the implementation of many activities.
(9.3) Secondly, many delegations emphasized the importance of ensuring the safety of journalists working in  areas of conflict or tension. This has been one of UNESCO’s major concerns for a long time now, as is apparent  from its activities aimed at ensuring that those who commit crimes against journalists will be punished, its
616   establishment of international electronic alert networks, and the Director-General’s open condemnation of the  killing of journalists. Article 79 of the Protocol additional to the Geneva Convention states that “Journalists  engaged in dangerous professional missions in areas of armed conflict shall be considered as civilians”, and shall  enjoy the same rights and the same treatment as are enjoyed by civilians. A number of speakers urged UNESCO to  continue its efforts to follow up this issue, working in close cooperation with media organizations.
(9.4) Thirdly, a number of representatives of Member States and non-governmental organizations spoke of the  partnership between UNESCO and other international organizations, both governmental and non-governmental, in  working to strengthen independent media in areas of conflict. Some media organizations expressed reservations  about the idea that intergovernmental organizations should establish media facilities in areas of conflict, instead of  providing support for independent local media. This question will represent the main topic for the round table that  UNESCO is planning to hold in May 2000 in Geneva, in the context of the celebration of World Press Freedom  Day.
(9.5) Lastly, many delegations congratulated UNESCO for organizing meetings for professional journalists  with a view to promoting a culture of peace, and for establishing print or audiovisual media networks aimed at  strengthening a culture of peace and tolerance. This is an activity that will undoubtedly develop considerably in the  years ahead. Thank you, Madam President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr Al-Mashat. I regard the subject you dealt with as being of the utmost importance. Now  that we have had the reports of the programme commissions on the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture  of peace”, I shall open the floor for speakers who wish to contribute to the debate. I should like to say that  El Salvador has requested to be the first speaker on the list and will be followed by the Russian Federation, which  asked to be among the first speakers of this morning. But before I give them the floor, I should like to see who  wishes to speak: Viet Nam, Canada, Kyrgyzstan, Ethiopia, Spain, Uzbekistan, France, Sudan, Barbados,  Uruguay, Benin and the Dominican Republic. Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of  El Salvador.
(11.1) Ms CUBIAS MEDINA (EI Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much. Allow me, on behalf of El Salvador, and as I am taking the floor for the first time,  to thank and congratulate the President on the excellent way in which she is conducting this session of the General  Conference and to express the heartfelt gratitude of the Government of El Salvador to Mr Federico Mayor,  Director-General of UNESCO, for his invaluable contribution to and constant support for the peace-building  process in our country. After this expression of gratitude, I should like to be allowed to speak about the progress  being achieved by El Salvador under the culture of peace project as a result of action taken by the new government.  I shall provide some background information before moving on to current activities.
(11.2) We know that since the very inception of culture of peace programmes in the world, El Salvador has been  in the vanguard, as can be seen in a series of measures which I shall present to you. To begin with, we were  pioneers in the implementation of the project “Towards a culture of peace” in the world. At the 27th session of the  General Conference of UNESCO, in 1993, the culture of peace programme, which was launched in our country to  be precise, was approved. The decision to propose that El Salvador should pioneer the implementation of this type  of programme stemmed specifically from the exemplary peace negotiation process between the government and the  FMNL, which culminated in the signing of the Chapultepec Accords in January 1992.
(11.3) Since then, El Salvador has always been in the lead in culture of peace activities. After the signing of  those Accords, several institutions undertook to promote activities conducive to peace-building. A notable example
1s that since 1996, during the second fortnight of each year, the National Council for Culture and the Arts  (CONCULTURA) has been coordinating the Festival for Peace. This Festival, the only one of its kind in the world,  promotes a series of artistic and academic activities which enable the Salvadorian people to think about and  commemorate the peace process which has taken place in the country, and also affords an ideal opportunity to  share our experience with other countries taking part in the Festival. The Festival is organized by a committee  comprising governmental and non-governmental agencies such as CONCULTURA, the Ministry of External  Relations, the Legislative Assembly, the Municipal Council of San Salvador, the Maria Escalén de Nuñez  Foundation, FUNDAPAZ and the University for Peace. The committee is currently organizing the fifth Festival for  Peace, which will have reconciliation as its main theme and will address the issue of isolated groups that are not  completely integrated into society, such as gang youth, deportees, the disabled, etc. As next year will be proclaimed  International Year for the Culture of Peace, the committee plans to work throughout the year on the organization of  monthly activities, with the holding of the events listed in a National Plan of Action, which should allow the people  of El Salvador to reflect on the culture of peace.
(11.4) At the international level, the Permanent Mission of El Salvador to the United Nations at Geneva was the  main sponsor of a draft resolution in April 1999 entitled “Towards a culture a peace” submitted at the 55th session  of the Commission on Human Rights. Our Permanent Mission in New York also played a leading role in the  discussions leading to the approval of the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Culture of Peace, adopted  in connection with the proclamation of the year 2000 as International Year for the Culture of Peace. In that regard,  on 12 October last, the Permanent Mission submitted a draft resolution sponsored by the Central American  countries, Panama and the Dominican Republic, in which Member States were invited to take the necessary steps  to commemorate the International Year for the Culture of Peace and to include the item “Towards a culture of  peace” in the provisional agenda of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
(11.5) The Government of El Salvador now has a “New Alliance” plan. The project “Towards a culture of  peace” has been expressly included in the government’s programme for 1999-2004 entitled “the New Alliance”,  especially because it implies an alliance for security, under which strategic and operational areas of action, which  the new government is required to implement as a priority, have been established. In that connection, the  preparation of a national plan of action on the culture of peace is a priority for our country.
(11.6) In the context of “the New Alliance”, the organizing committee of the Peace Festivals is currently  drafting the National Plan of Action on the Culture of Peace, and in so doing is also complying with the provisions  of the United Nations Declaration and Programme of Action on the Culture of Peace adopted recently in  connection with the International Year for the Culture of Peace and the International Decade for a Culture of Peace  and Non-Violence for the Children of the World. From the standpoint of the social prevention of delinquency, this  National Plan of Action is directed specially at vulnerable sectors such as women, young people, boys and girls,  who are the victims of situations of violence. For its part, the committee, composed of representatives of  governmental and non-governmental organizations with experience in dealing with these vulnerable groups, works  on a multidisciplinary basis. The Plan includes, among other things, the fields of education, culture,  communication and sport. Lastly, it must be stressed that both the government and society, with their specialized  bodies, have established programmes for the prevention and peaceful settlement of conflicts, such programmes  being intended for social sectors inclined to violence. The aim is thus to eradicate from the minds of young people  the propensity to use force and violence, and to encourage them to think in terms of a culture of peace which would  help further strengthen efforts to bring peace and democracy to El Salvador. Thank you very much, Madam  President.
12. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate from El Salvador and now give the floor to the Russian Federation.
3acnymap goknanel npercemaTeneñ Komuccum, nenerauma Poccnñäckoï Derepaunu c  yAOBJICTBOPEHUEM  OTMEYAET TO CONbINO® BHHMAHHE, KOTOPOE MOJTyUHTA TEMA KYJIBTYPhI MHPA Ha HbIHEITHeH ceccHH l'eneparrsHoH  KoxHdepeHumn. [lonaraem, 4TO 3T0 BMOJHE €CTECTBEHHO. Benp peub HET MO CymecTBy O CAMOË BAXKHOH YACTH  MaHaTa FOHECKO: ykxpermenne mupa B yMax JIOAEH Kak aJbTepHATHBA KyJIbTy BOMHBI H HacHIH4. bes  ITPEYBEIHTEHHA MO2KHO CKA3ATb, UTO BO MHOTOM OT Toro Hackoyibko ycremmo FOHECKO BbITIONHHT 3TY CBOIO  ycTaBHyro yHKIHrO, OYET 3ABHCETb PEAITbHbIN BEC H BIIHAHHE Hamer Opranmsanmmn B cucteMe Oprann3aumn  O6benuHeHHBIX Hanmi H Mexk1yHaporHbIX OTHONIEHHH B IIEJIOM, ee OO1NK B XXI Beke. JKu3Hb C ee OCTPBIMH  KOH®QIIHKTAMH H TpOTHBOPEYNAMH KAXK/O/HEBHO TOATBEPKITAËT, UTO KyJNbTypa MHpa — 3TO HE MPOCTO  GrraropozmbrH near, a CBOCOÔpa3HbIKN HMIIEPpaTHB MOBE/EHHA, KOTOPOMY JOJDKHBI CICHOBATb FOCYAPCTBA H  ITIPABHTEJTBCTBA, MOJNHTHKH H OOINECTBEHHbIE AEATEIIH, POAHTENH H NMerarorn. BOT noyeMy KynbTypa Mupa caja  OJHOH H3 CAMbIX BocTpeOoBaHHBIX KoHIenTyanbHbix uae IOHECKO 3a mocmemmee necaTnneTne. Ee  BCECTOPoHHee OOOCHOBAHWE H pasBHTHe — AITO Han0onee IIeHHOe HHTEJLIEKTYAITBHO® HaCHEHE, KOTOPOE  OCTABJIAET HaAM l'exepanbHbI mupexkrop Denepuko Mañop. Hexanee npnusTne l'enepanbHoñ AccamOneeH  Opranmsaumnu O6rezn5nenmbrx Hanmi /lexrapaimn H nporpaMMbl eHcTBHH TIO KyJIbType MHPA ABJIETCA APKHM  MTOATBEPKICHHEM TOTO, YTO WICH KYIIbTypbI MHpa BCE TITyOXKE IIPOHHKAIOT B CO3HAHHE JIFOACH, TMONYYAIOT  MOICPIKKY BCE Gonee MMPOKOTO Kpyra rocyaapcTs. /lormxeH cKa3aTb, YTO TO TMONHOCTBIO OTBEYAET LIEIIAM H
3a/aYaM BHEIIHEH IMOJHTHKH PoccuH, BbICTyNaromeH 3a hopmnposanne MEXIyHAPOJHBIX OTHONEHHHÀ Ha  OCHOBE CHIIbI IIPABA, PaBHOIPABHOTO COTPYMHHYECTBA, COOMIONEHHA MpaB H CBO0O1 Yeroseka. He ciyuaiino  MHOrHe monoxexna /lexrtapaimm H TporpaMMbI CO3BY4HbI KOHICTHIMA MHpa XXI Beka, C HHHIHATHBOH  dbopmupoBanus KOTOpoH Ha CAMMHTe BOCBMEPKH B Kempe BbicTynmI IIpesnmenr Poccun bopue EnbomH.  Poccua BocnpuHnMaeT /lexrapaumro Hu rporpammy JACWCTBHIM KaK BbipaxeHHe BOIH MEXKIYHAPOIHOIO  COOONIECTBA, HATIPABII€HHOH Ha TO, YTOOBI PEIIMTEIIBHO H TOCHE/OBATEIBHO IPOTHBOCTONTb IPOSBICHUAM  HACHJIH4, MEXHAIIMOHAJIBHOH H MEKPEIMTMO3HOW HETEPINHMOCTH, 3KCTPEMH3MA BO BCex ero opmax H  ITPOABIIEHHAX. Ba’KHOCTh 3TOFO TIPOTHUBOCTOSHHS MBI OCOOCHHO OCTPO OMIyIIaeM ceHxac, CTOJIKHYBIHCb C  GecrIperleeHTHbIM BBI30BOM MeXIyHaporHoro Teppopu3Ma. Bbonbmoh wHTepec B Poccun K rpuHimram  KYJIBTypbI MHpa OOYCIIOBJICH H CHEIMMHYECKHMH MPOONEMAMH CTAHOBIIEHHA MEMOKPATHHECKHX HHCTHTYTOB H
3APpOKIEHHA TPAKIAHCKOTO OONECTBA B HAIICH CTpaHe B mepexomHbIä mepuox. B MmHOroHANHOHATBHOH H  MHOroKoHdeccHoHanbHoH PoccHu mMmpokHä OTKIHK HaXO/AT 3aKIFOUYCHHBIE B KOHLEMIHH KyJIbTYphl MHpa
21   HJealbI TEPIHMOCTH H COJMAAPHOCTH MEXK/y HAPpOMAMH H KyJbTypaMH, B TOM YHCIIE TO OTHOIECHHO K
9THHYECKHM, PCJIHTHO3HBIM H A3bIKOBbIM MEHbIIHHCTBAM. CYHTaeM, UTO TOINBKO JEHCTBYA B yXe ITHX  IIPHHIIHTIOB, MO3KHO OGECIIEUNTL HALIHOHAIBHO® COTJIacHe, 0€30MacHOCTh H JOCTOMHCTBO YerroBeKa. Harerock,  YTO B XOME COCTOSIBIICHCS HECKOJIbKO He Hazan npesextaumn B IIITa6-kBaprnpe IOHECKO npoexra  «Kymbrypa mnpa B Poccux - roy 2000», semaromerocs ma FOHECKO mo CyTH nena manoTHBIM, MBI CMOTJIH  HOJNYUHTb JOCTATOYHO TIOJTHOE IPE/CTABIIEHHE O HAIIPABICHHOCTH H COEPKAHHH IpeATpHHHMAËMbIX B HASH  CTpaHE yCHIHH MO BOCIHTAHHO KyJbTypbl MHpa. OTa paboTa OCYHIECTBISETCS y HAC TO BbICOKHM  TOCYAPCTBEHHBIM MATPOHAXKEM H MPH INHPOKOM YYACTHH MPEACTABUTEIICH rpaxxaHCKOro OOIECTBA, HAYYHbIX  IEHTPOB, OOIECTBEHHbIX OpraHn3aumH, BUIHBIX esTerreHh HaykH H KyJIbTypbl. B BOCbMH pernoHax Poccun  CO3/AHbI CIELHANIBHbIE IEHTPbI KYJIbTYPbI MHPA, IIPOBEEHO OKOJIO BYX JECATKOB HAYYHO-TIPAKTHYECKHX  KoHdepeHINH, H3AHbI MHOFOYHCIICHHbIE COOPHHKH H MaTepHa/bI, B TOM YHCIIE - MACCOBBIM THPAXKOM TEKCTbI  Mexrapaumu x mporpamme1 neñcrsnh Oprannsanmu O6rexn5nenmbx Hanumñ. Ceñyac paccmaTpnBaeTcs  BO3MOXHOCTb IpHIAHHA IpoekTy xapakrepa KommmekcHoh dexeparbHoï rporpammeil. Camoe rnaBHoe
3aKJIFOYAETCS B TOM, YTO paÔoTa MO BOCIHTAHHIO KYJIbTYPbI MHPA CTala ECTECTBEHHOH COCTABIIAIONEH HaAINHX  YCHIIHH TO YKPEILIEHHIO EMOKPATHYECKHX OCHOB poccHHCKOH rOCyAPpCTBEHHOCTH, (JOPMHUPOBAHUIO CHCTEMBI  MOJÆVIHHHO HalIHOHAJTbHbIX IKeHHOCTeH H ynpouenn4a mpaBoropsanka. /lymaro, 9To Ha cnenyronIeHn CceccHH  l'exneparbHoHï KOH(PEPEHIIMM MBI CMOXEM O3HAKOMHTb BAC C IIPAKTHYECKHMH Pe3YIIbTATaMH pearm3aunn  poccuäckoro HarmHoHarbHOoro mpoekra. Mur momiepxnBaem mpoekT FOHECKO Ha 2000-2001 rr. «3a mup H  TOJI€pAHTHOCTb, 3a JUAJIOT MEKAY KYJIBTYPAMH H LIHBHIH3ALHAMHD.
13.2 YBaxaemaa r-xa [Ipencenarens, B IHCKyCCH4x O NanbHeñämen cybp6e mpoekra «Ha myTu k kymbType  mupa» PoccHa 3aHHMAeT 01HO3HaYHYI0 MO3HL HO. Ham TpyaHo mipenctasuth Oe3 Hee Oyaymyro HEATENIBHOCTh  FOHECKO, Tem Gonee ato BHepenn MexayHapoymbrä oJ KyJIbTYpbl MHpa, MexyHapomnoe Hec4THIeTHe  KYJIBTYPbI MHPA H HEHACHJIH4 B HHTepecax Jered ILIaHeTbI. [jig Hac Bompoc B ApyroM, a HMEHHO, KaK MPHIATh  S3TOH NEATENBHOCTH Gonee ahdhekrhBHbIH xapakTep, 3akpenus 3a Hell nnanpyromyo pos FOHECKO. IIperxe  BCETO0, KaK IIpeJICTABJIAETCA, CIEIYET HCXOMHTb U3 TOTO, YTO 3TAN hHTOCOMCKOTO OCMbICIIEHHA KYIIbTYPbI MHPA B  OCHOBHOM 3aBEpIICH H HEOOXOAHMO TMEPEXOJHUTh K pearmn3aumH HaAIIHOHAITBHbIX IpPOEKTOB, IMPHHOCAMHX  peabHyro oT1auy. OGHaExMBA’T, YTO B I [poekTe NporpamMeI H OroypKeTa Ha CHENYIOINEE IBY XJIETHE OCHOBHOH  yTIop CHerraH Ha MOJVIEPKKY HMEHHO TAKHX IIPOEKTOB, ABJIAION(HXCA 0€3 IpeyBEIIMYEHHA HCTOYHHKOM JKHBOTO  KOHKpeTHOTro OrbITa. Haneemca, dro CekpeTapHaT CMOKET OGOONINTb OIbIT pearmm3anmH TUX MPOEKTOB H  CHEJIATB ero JOCTOSHUEM BCEX TOCYJapCTB-WICHOB. B nampHelmeM MOXHO ObLIO OBI MepeñTH kK pa3padoTke  CyOperHoHaJIbHbIX H PETHOHATBHBIX IIpoeKTOB TO KYJIbTYpEe MHpa, ocobeHHo TaM, re CYyIMECTBYET  HEOOXOUMOCTh paHHeTo npexynpexenna koHdmukros. [lo Hamemy TBEpHOMYy yOexK1eHnO, KyJbTypa MHpa  JOJKHA OBITh KOHIETTYAIIbHbIM cTepskHeM nearenbHocT IOHECKO BO Bcex cdepax ee KOMIETCHIMH H,  IPeXKIe BCEro, B OONACTH o0pa3oBaHusA. B 3T0Ï CBA3H 3ACITYKHBAIOT MOIEPIKKH IPOEKTbI MEXKITyHAPOTHOTO  COTPYHHYECTBA B OOJNACTH IMOATOTOBKH KapoB MHUPOCTPOUTENICH, CO3/IaHWs LIEHTPOB KYJIbTYPbI MHpA,  BOCIHTAHH# B JyXe MHPA, JEMOKPATHH H NpaB YeroBeKa, oOpa3oBaHHa OCIKEHIIEB H MAprHHarbHOÏ MOJNOJEXH.  Ocoboro BHHMaHN4a TpeOyeT, Ha Ham B3r141, paboTa MO TPEIOTBPAIMICHHIO AHCKPHMHHALHH B OOJIACTH
(13.1) Mr SREDIN (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. Mr Director-General, esteemed colleagues, having heard the reports of the  chairpersons of the commissions, the delegation of the Russian Federation is pleased to note the considerable  attention that has been devoted to the theme of the culture of peace at the current session of the General  Conference. We feel that this is only natural, because it basically concerns the most important part of UNESCO’s  mandate: the strengthening of peace in the minds of men as an alternative to the cult of war and violence. Indeed, it  is no exaggeration to say that, in many ways, the degree to which UNESCO can succeed in fulfilling this  constitutional function will determine the true weight and influence of our Organization within the United Nations  system and more generally in international relations, and UNESCO’s image in the twenty-first century. Life, with  all its sharp conflicts and contradictions, reminds us daily that the culture of peace is not only a noble ideal, but  also a unique norm of conduct which must be upheld by States and governments, politicians and prominent  individuals, parents and teachers. This is why, over the past decade, a culture of peace has become one of the  UNESCO concepts which is most in demand. The painstaking manner in which this concept has been devised and  elaborated is the most valuable part of the intellectual heritage that Director-General Federico Mayor is leaving us.  The Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace recently adopted by the United Nations General  Assembly is clear confirmation of the fact that people are increasingly alive to the idea of the culture of peace,  which is receiving support from a steadily growing number of countries. I am bound to say that this fully  corresponds to the foreign policy objectives of Russia, which is in favour of conducting international relations on  the basis of the rule of law, equitable collaboration, and observance of human rights and freedoms. It is no accident  that many of the provisions of the Declaration and Programme of Action are in line with the international peace  concept for the twenty-first century proposed by President Boris Yeltsin at the G-8 summit in Cologne. Russia sees
620   the Declaration and Programme of Action as an expression of the will of the international community in decisively  and consistently opposing all manifestations of force, inter-ethnic and inter-religious intolerance, and all forms of  extremism. Such opposition is particularly important today, as we face the unprecedented challenge of international  terrorism. The keen interest in Russia in the principles of the culture of peace is also prompted by specific problems  relating to the formation of democratic institutions and the building of civil society in our country in this  transitional period. In multi-ethnic and multi-confessional Russia, there has been a broad response to the ideals  inherent in the culture of peace: the ideals of tolerance and solidarity between peoples and cultures, particularly  with respect to ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. We believe that it is only by acting in the spirit of such  principles that it is possible to ensure national harmony, security and human dignity. I hope that at the presentation  several days ago at UNESCO Headquarters of the project “The culture of peace in Russia - the year 2000”, a truly  pioneering project for UNESCO, you were able to gain a sufficiently clear idea of the thrust and content of the  efforts under way in our country to foster a culture of peace. This work is being conducted under high  governmental auspices, with the broad participation of representatives of civil society, scientific institutions, social  organizations, and prominent scientific and cultural figures. In eight regions of Russia, special culture of peace  centres have been established, over 20 seminars have been held, and numerous publications and other materials  have been produced including, with very large print runs, the texts of the Declaration and Programme of Action of  the United Nations. We are now considering the possibility of turning the project into a major federal programme.  The most important thing is that the efforts to build a culture of peace have become a natural component of our  efforts to strengthen the democratic foundations of the Russian State, to establish a system of truly national values,  and to consolidate the rule of law. I hope that at the forthcoming session of the General Conference we will be able  to inform you of the practical results of this Russian national project. We support the UNESCO project for 2000-
2001 “For peace and tolerance: for a dialogue between cultures”.
(13.2) Madam President, with respect to the future of the project “Towards a culture of peace”, Russia takes an  unequivocal position. We find it difficult to imagine UNESCO’s future activities without it, especially in view of  the forthcoming International Year for the Culture of Peace and the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and  Non-Violence for the Children of the World. For us the question is rather how to make this activity more effective  and ensure that UNESCO plays a leading role therein. Above all, it seems safe to assume that the philosophical  conceptualization phase of the culture of peace has basically been completed, and that we must now move on to the  execution of national projects with concrete outcomes. It is encouraging that in the Draft Programme and Budget  for the coming biennium, the main emphasis is on support for such projects, which it is no exaggeration to say will  be a source of vital and concrete experience. We hope that the Secretariat will be able to disseminate the experience  gained from the execution of these projects, making it available to all Member States. It should then be possible to  go on to elaborate subregional and regional projects on the culture of peace, especially in regions where there is a  need for early warning and prevention of conflicts. It is our firm conviction that the culture of peace must lie at the  conceptual core of UNESCO?s activities in all its fields of competence, and above all in the field of education. In  this connection, support should be given to projects of international cooperation for the training of peacekeepers,  the establishment of culture of peace centres, education for peace, democracy and human rights, and the education  of refugees and marginalized youth. Particular attention should be paid, in our view, to efforts to prevent ethnic and  linguistic discrimination in the field of education.
(13.3) Madam President, I am certain that through our joint efforts we may make the project “Towards a culture  of peace” one of the most promising areas of UNESCO’s action, and that this will in turn further enhance the  Organization’s authority in the eyes of the international community. Thank you for your attention.
14. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the representative of Canada.
15.1 Mr CONLEY (Canada):  Thank you, Madam President. The attention given to the culture of peace during the debates of the  commissions confirms the need and the urgency to increase our efforts in contributing to the peace-building  process. The question now is not if UNESCO should pursue this goal but rather how best UNESCO can  contribute to building peace around the world. Building peace is the raison d’étre of UNESCO. Therefore,  Canada believes that the concern for peace should be fully integrated throughout all of UNESCO's activities and  within all sectors and programmes.
15.2 In the introduction to document 30 C/5 the Director-General, Mr Mayor, recognizes that UNESCO has  successfully attained its objective of highlighting the necessity and the urgency of focusing the attention of the  world on peace-building. We concur with the Director-General’s assessment that UNESCO can be justifiably  proud. But this is an ongoing process and future action must strive for effectiveness and coherence. As a result of  UNESCO?s dedicated hard work, a series of declarations on the subject has been adopted around the world and  the United Nations has adopted the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace. In his address to  the General Conference Mr Mayor cautioned us that during his 12 years of tenure UNESCO had had many tasks  but only one mission - to build peace in the minds of all human beings. To do that effectively we must help to  consolidate democracy, humanize technological development and press for the ethical heritage, that set of  universal values which provides moral guidelines and realms for calm reflection in the midst of the most dramatic
21   changes and conflicts. The more profound and rapid the transformations confronting us, the more we need these  points of reference to keep us on the right course.
15.3 Madam President, I see UNESCO as a beautiful Brittany artichoke. On the outside the skin is a little  rough and sharp but as you peel away the outside petals you begin to see and taste the richness of this  Organization. Some of our programmes are like the petals which have been sucked clean. There is no further use  for them and they are discarded. This is analogous to our continuing interest in ensuring sunset provisions in  most, if not all of our programmes. But the best is at the core. It is the heart. And to me, the heart of UNESCO is  a culture of peace. I thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir, for your contribution. I now call Kyrgyzstan.
17. l-xa TOKTOCYHOBA (Kerprebr3cTaH):  Cnacubo, r-xa IIlpencenaTens, 3a mpemoctaBiaeHHOe coo. OTibI-ocHoBaTenn FOHECKO  MOAYEPKHBAIIH, YTO YXOBHAA OCHOBA MHPA ABIIHETCH KITFOUEBbIM TIONOXKeHHEM YcTasa IOHECKO. Ceñuac Ha  pyGexe BekoB, KOrma B MHpe MYCCHPYETCS Xe€HTHHFTOHOBCKA4 wes KOH®IMKTOB rmBmimsanmii, FOHECKO  OYEHb CBOEBPEMEHHO BBHICTYNHJIA C HHHIHATHBOH, MPEZVIOXKHB IPOEKTbI MO KyIbType MHpa H AHarory MEXKIY  MABHJIH3aAlMAMH. KbIPrbI3CTAH IIPHBETCTBYET H TOJVIEPKHBAËT Bee mpoekTsl IOHECKO mo nponsmkeHnro  KYJIBTyPbI MHPA, KOTOPbIE OCYINECTBIIMIOTCA B llentparbHoh Asnun B pasiudHbIX cdepax KOMIeTeHLIHH  IOHECKO: B o6pasosanmn, Hayke H KyJbType. Ilocrpoenne KyiabTypbl MHPA HAXOJANTCH B CAMOM IEHTPpe  MEATENIBHOCTH IOHFECKO. Onmaro KymbrTypa Mupa He MOXET OBITh JOCTHTHYTA Ge3 INpouBMKeHNna  MeXKYJIBTYPHOTO, MEXITHHYECKOTO, MEKPEIMTHO3HOTO AHATOTA KaK B MOBCEHEBHOH XKH3HH JIFOJICH, Tak H B  HEATENBHOCTH IPABHTENIBCTB H OPpraHM3aumH. OTH LEHHOCTH H 9THKA JOJDKHBI 3aHATH IIEHTPAITBHOE® MECTO B  MEKIYHAPOIHBIX OTHOIEHHAX. MHorne yapexmenns Opranmsaiumn O0benuHeHHbIX Harmït paGoTaroT Ha Orraro  TpOIBHKeHHA MHpa, HO y IOHECKO 0o0co0br1 MaHIaT, ocoba4 ponb, ocoba4 MHCCHA, TIO3TOMY HEOOXOZHMO  WITH elle Jaiblle H pa3BHBAaTb JUATOT MEXIY MONbMH, MEXKIY KYJIBTYPAMH, MEXKIY pesrnrHaMH — 3TO H €CTh  HYTB K Juanory umBHIm3aumH. CeromHAIHAA HEHCTBHTENBHOCTb 3ACTABIIAET BbICTYIIATB C HOBbIMH  HHHIHATHBAMH UT IPOIBHKEHHA MEXKYJIBTYPHOTO H MeXpernrnHo3Horo mmarora. MebI CTONM Ha pyGbexe  BEKOB, H €CIIH MBI HE OyEeM TOBOPHTb 00 3TOM HHAIOre CEroJHA, To B XXI Beke 00 3TOM Hekomy OyreT  rOBOpHTB, HOO B KOHIHKTAX IHBHIM3AIHH MOTYT NOFrHOHyTL. IlongrepxnBaa npoekt FOHECKO «Ha nyru x  KYJIbType MHpa» H JUAJIOT IMBHIN3aLHH, HALE MpAaBHTEJIBCTBO H | [pesH1eHT Hamel CTpaHbI AKaeB BbIIBHHYITH  BHEIIHENOJIHTHYECKYFIO JOKTPHUHY BO3POXK/IEHHA BerrnKkOro IIE1TKOBOTO TIYTH, B OCHOBE KOTOPOH HAXOJHTCA  KyJIbTypa Mupa H auanor umbnmsaunH. B Kbiprei3cTane HayaTO wznanue >kypHana «<ÎlenTparbHag Asus H  KyJIbTypa MHpa». HarmoxarbHaa komuccusa FOHECKO Kerprer3cTaHa nposena TPH MeXITyHAapoÏHbIx dopyma  IOHECKO mo npoGremaTuke KybTypbI MHpa H auajora umshnmm3anmH. Ha HcceIk-kybckom hopyme, popyme  HHTeJLIEKTYarroB MHpa, Derepuxo Mañop, OYeHb yBaXKaeMbIK B HarreH CTPAHE YENOBEK, BIEPBhIE IMPENIOKHAN  TIPOBECTH AHAITOT IHBHIH3ALHH Kak Obl B TIPOTUBOBEC X3HTHHTTOHOBCKOH Wee KOHIHKTOB IHBHIH3ALHH, H B  Haureh CcTpaHe 3T0 INpemioxeHne TONY4HIO OYEHb IMHUPOKOE OJ0OpeHHe HW Gombmyo nomrepxky. B  KbIprei3cTaHe Takxe mnpoeemeHa MexayHaponnas KOHQPEPEHIMS IMO HIEAM TOJNEPAHTHOCTH H IpOOITeMaM  paxHero npenyrmpexyeHHa KOH®IHKTOB H COBCEM HEJIABHO, B CEHTAOPE Mecaue TOTO roma, - MexxxyHaporHnbm  hopym FOHECKO «KymbTypa n penurus B llexrpanbHnoï Asnn». Bo Bpems MpOBENEHHA BhIMCYTMOMAHYTOTO  ®opyma otkpsita kadeapa HOHECKO - mupoBbie Ky1bTypbI H MHpoBble peunmrun. MBI CYHHTaeM, YTO 3TO H €CTh  BOIUIOIICHHE HA MPAKTHKE WICH KYJIbTypbI MHpa H anarora omBnm3aunH. Mer mperyraraem, YTOÔbI mpoekt «Ha  HYTH K KÿJbType MHpa», AHAaror KyJIbTyp H JUAJOT pernrnñ, KaK IMAIOTHBIA IIPOEKT, ObL1 TPOBEICH B  KeIpreri3cTaxe. H y Hac ecTh OYEHbB KOHKPETHOE JIS 3TOTO MpeIoxeHHe. Ha mepBoM stare HEATENBHOCTh 3TOrO  MJIOTHOTO TIPOEKTa JOJDKHA OBITh HaripaBreHa Ha TO, YTOOBI MpHBIIEYB MONEH PA3HBIX TparnImH, Pa3HBIX  pernrno3HbIx opnexTaumH, xondeccnh K aHuaiory 06 oOIMX IeHHOCTAX; HAM €CTh YTO OOCYAHTh C  TIPeCTABHTEIAMH Ppa3IIHYHbIX 3THOCOB, PA3IIHYHbIX KYJIbTYP, PA3IUIHBIX permmruñ. ¥Y HAC €CTh OOIMMHE MEHHOCTH  H camas TlaBHa4d II€HHOCTb — STO 3aHTa MhHpa, MYTb K KyIbType Mnpa. OIWH H3 ACIMEKTOB, KOTOPOMY  IOHECKO mpnxaeT BaxHeñmee 3HayeHHe, — 3TO BOCIHTAHHE H oOpa3osanne B JyXE MexXpeJHrHO3HOro  auanora. 51 mymaro, YTO B KaxXK10H KOHKPETHOW CTpaHe €CTh CBO4 CHeLM®HKAa, MpHYeM 5Ta cneumdoHka  xapakTepHa H JU Harrrero perHoHa, H MBI MOXKEM TIPEJICTABUTh CBOH HHTEPECHbIE KOHKPETHBIC MPEMIOXKEHHA B  COBMECTHBIX IpoekTax. J[pyruM IpHOpHTETOM ABIIHETCH OOMEH MHEHHAMH, OJIHAKO B HAHHOM IHIOTHOM  IpoekTe oGpa3oBaHne JOJKHO HrpaTb hyHIAMEHTAIbHyHO porb. OcymecTBIIeHHe MporpaMMbI TO COMEHCTBHIO  TIOHHMAHHIO BOIpPOCOB KYJIbTYPbI H P@lHrHH ABIAETCA OYEHb TPYMHbIM ETOM. JomkHbI TIONHOCTBO  COOMIOATbCA TIPaBa HAPOIOB H KOHBEHIMH, HEHTPAITHTET FOCYTAPCTB, à TAKKE MPHHI[HIIBI CBETCKOTO OOIMIECTBA.  Onna H3 33734 ITOrO MHNOTHOTO MPOEKTA MO CONENCTBHIO IMPOBE/EHHIO MEXKPeIHrHO3HOTO THAJIOTa — 3TO MATb  BO3MOXKHOCTb MPOCTbIM JIFOJIIM BbIPA3HTb CBOIO O3A00YEHHOCTb, CBOH YAAHHA, HAJCHK/IbI, TIOJACTUTHCS OMBITOM H  HCIHOJIb3OBATb €T0 JUIA 3AIHTbI KyJbTypbl MHpa. lloHOBECHOE BHHMAHHE CIEAYET YJEIIHTb TMONHTHYECKHM H  COLHAJbBHbIM ACIEKTAM. DopyM Mo KyJIbType H perrnrnH, KoTopbIH ObLT mposeeH B KbIprebi3cTaHe, Ha Hccbrk-  Kyle, 4BHJCA TIEPBbIM maroM Ha TyTH MPOBENEHHA MHOTOTpAHHOTO muanora. H He cmydaitHo sToT Dopym  COCTOSICA B [lentpanbHoH Azur. O10 obycoBneHo TeM, 4YTo llenrparbHaa Asm, KbIprbI3CTaH, HaXO/ATCA Ha
622   CThIKE LIHBHJIH3ALHH, HA CThIKE BOCTOYHOH H 3arMaHOH KyJIbBTYP, H BOT MOYEMY BOECHHBIE JEUCTBUS, KOTOPbIE  Bech Ha rore KbIprbr3cTaHa H KOTOPbIE MOrJIH OBI HMETb TAKEJIbIE MOCHE/CTBHA, HO MOEMY MHEHHIO, ObLTH  IIpeKpalIleHbl paHbllle B CHIY TOrO, YTO HMeHHO B KbIprbI3CTaHe B 3T0 BpeMA Mpoxogui DopyM NO KyJabType H  pernurnn B IlewrparbHoï Asnn. 51 xotena Obl HANEAThCA, YTO HMEHHO Onarogapa tomy Dopymy KOHECKO  BOCHHbIE MEHCTBHA ObLIH MpeEKPANIEHbI H YXKe CErOMHA MNepecTalia MPONIHBATRCA KpOBb. Sl Takke xoTera Obl  TIONHEPKHYTb BA2KHOCTb BbICTYILI€HHA TIPEICEIATEIICH KOMHCCHH H OCOOCHHO OTMETHTb TO, YTO, EHCTBHTEJNbHO,  Hapobl, He HM€IOINHE CBO€À HCTOPHH, HE HMEIOT CBO€rO HACTO4IIerO H cBoero Oyaymero. [losromy MbI  IIPHBETCTBYEM H3/1AHH€ HCTOPHH pesrHrnH, HCTopHH uMmBHIIM3aUmH IlenrparbHoN A3HH B HOBOM ABYXIETHH
2000-2001 rr., yanTbBAaAd, YTO 5Ty KHWTY et lleHTpanpHas Asus, OHa OYeHb HyXHa HAM, MBI OTIAeM  IIPHOPHTET LICHHOCTIM KYJIbTYPbI H 3alHTbI MATEPHAITBHOTO H KYIbTypHOro Hace ans. Caco 3a BHUMaHHE.
(17) Ms TOKTOSUNOVA (Kyrgyzstan) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. The founding fathers of UNESCO emphasized the  spiritual foundations of peace as a key component of UNESCO’s Constitution. As we stand on the threshold  between two centuries, with the world exercised by Huntington’s clash of civilizations, UNESCO has proposed an  extremely opportune initiative for projects on a culture of peace and dialogue between civilizations. Kyrgyzstan  welcomes and supports all UNESCO projects promoting the culture of peace under way in Central Asia in  UNESCO?s various fields of competence: education, science and culture. The building of a culture of peace lies at  the very heart of UNESCO’s action. However, a culture of peace may not be achieved without pursuing  intercultural, inter-ethnic and inter-religious dialogue, both in people’s everyday lives and through the action of  governments and organizations. These values and ethics must occupy a central place in international relations.  Many United Nations agencies are working to promote peace, but UNESCO has a special mandate, a special role  and a special mission, and for this reason we need to go even further to seek to develop dialogue between people,  cultures and religions, for this is the way towards a dialogue of civilizations. Today’s reality forces us to seek new  initiatives for the promotion of intercultural and inter-religious dialogue. We are standing on the threshold between  two centuries, and if we do not speak about such dialogue today, in the twenty-first century there may be no one to  speak about it, since all may have perished in conflicts between civilizations. In support of the UNESCO project  “Towards a culture of peace” and the dialogue among civilizations, our government and the President of our  country, Mr Akaiev, has put forward a foreign policy initiative for the revival of the Silk Road, underlying which is  the culture of peace and dialogue among civilizations. In Kyrgyzstan, publication has begun of a journal entitled  Central Asia and the Culture of Peace. The Kyrgyz National Commission for UNESCO has held three  international UNESCO forums on the culture of peace and dialogue among civilizations. At the Issyk Kul Forum,  the forum of intellectuals for peace, Federico Mayor, a highly respected figure in our country, was the first to  propose the idea of a dialogue of civilizations, as a counterweight, as it were, to Huntington’s idea of the clash of  civilizations, and in our country this proposal has received wide-scale endorsement and strong support. In  Kyrgyzstan, we also held the International Conference on Ideas of Tolerance in Central Asia and the Problems of  Early Warning and Prevention of Conflicts, and very recently, in September of this year, the International  UNESCO Forum on Culture and Religion in Central Asia, at which a UNESCO Chair in world cultures and world  religions was inaugurated. We feel that this is a concrete embodiment of the idea of the culture of peace and  dialogue among civilizations. We propose that the project “Towards a culture of peace”, the dialogue among  cultures and religions, should be carried out as a pilot project in Kyrgyzstan. To this end, we have a very concrete  proposal to make. In the first phase, the activity of this pilot project should be aimed at bringing people from  various traditions, religious backgrounds and affiliations together to engage in dialogue on common values; we  have much to talk about with the representatives of various ethnic groups, cultures and religions. We have common  values, and our primary value is the defence of peace and the path to a culture of peace. One aspect, to which  UNESCO attaches great importance, is education in the spirit of inter-religious dialogue. I think that each  individual country has its own specific characteristics, as does our region, and this should enable us to make  interesting concrete proposals for joint projects. Another priority is the exchange of views; however, in the pilot  project in question, education must play the fundamental role. The execution of the programme to promote  understanding of cultural and religious issues is fraught with difficulties. There needs to be full observance of the  rights of peoples and conventions, the neutrality of States, and the principles of a secular society. One of the tasks  of this pilot project to promote inter-religious dialogue is to afford ordinary people an opportunity to express their  concerns, aspirations and hopes, and to share their experience and harness it in one direction - the defence of a  culture of peace. The political and social aspects of this project must be given their full due. The Forum on Culture  and Religion, which was held at Issyk Kul in Kyrgyzstan, constituted a first step towards the creation of a  multifaceted dialogue. It is no accident that this Forum was held in Central Asia, for Central Asia and Kyrgyzstan  are at the meeting point of Eastern and Western culture. In my opinion, it is for this reason that the military action  in the south of Kyrgyzstan, which might have had dire consequences, was halted so soon, precisely because it was  in Kyrgyzstan at that time that the Forum on Culture and Religion in Central Asia was being held. I should like to  hope that it is really thanks to this UNESCO Forum that the military action was halted and that the bloodshed has  now ceased. I should also like to stress the importance of the statements by the chairpersons of the commissions  and, in particular, to state that peoples without a history are indeed peoples with neither a present nor a future. For  this reason we welcome the publication of the history of religions and the History of Civilizations of Central Asia  in the 2000-2001 biennium. Central Asia 1s eagerly awaiting this book, for which we have great need. We give  priority to the values of culture and the preservation of the material and cultural heritage. Thank you for your  attention.  (Mr Zlenko, Ukraine, takes the Chair)
18. The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the representative of Ethiopia.
19.1 Mr ETEFFA (Ethiopia):  Thank you, Mr President, I have no written statement so I will be very brief. I took the floor to react to  some of the comments made in the reports, especially the report of Commission IV which stated that people  without history have no past and no future. I think all peoples have history and therefore all peoples have a past  and I hope that all peoples will have a future. If we are talking of people without history, meaning without a  written history, I consider such statements misleading.
19.2 Mr President, the other comment I wanted to make is that the reports of the commissions mentioned  diversity but did not give it enough and appropriate emphasis. The role of diversity in the culture of peace is in  my opinion very important. Diversity should be recognized, respected and appreciated. Diversity should be given  the necessary attention in education and in the discussion of culture, religion and art. Education in general and  adult education in particular should promote diversity and the culture of peace.
19.3 The other point I wanted to raise concerns the much talked about globalization. If by globalization we  only mean the globalization of finance and trade I think it would exclude the already excluded even more.  Therefore globalization should at the same time enhance and promote diversity. In my view, moreover, diversity  and democracy go hand in hand: democracy should contribute to the safeguarding of diversity, while a proper  understanding of diversity would contribute to the reduction of violence and encourage harmony and peaceful  coexistence. The culture of peace should promote the universality of peace, human rights, justice and cultural  understanding. It should enable people to live together not only with tolerance but with understanding, respect  and harmony. Thank you, Mr President.
20. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Ethiopia and now give the floor to the representative of Spain.
(21.1) Mr BENAVIDES ORGAZ (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. I too intend to be very brief, and I will accordingly make only three points.  Firstly, I think that the Secretariat should be congratulated on the development of the “culture of peace” concept,  which is becoming much more coherent, and on the integration of the various strategies conducive to it. I think that  this is positive for the Organization, and we cannot but endorse it.
(21.2) Secondly, a comment on conflict prevention: it is inconceivable that UNESCO should not play its rightful  role in this field. I simply wish to recall that, within the United Nations system, this is a role that basically devolves  on the Security Council. Of course, in its fields of competence, UNESCO not only can but must contribute in this  field. A specific example is the work done by UNESCO in the former Yugoslavia.
(21.3) Thirdly, and turning to the draft resolutions that we are to approve, my delegation considers that, in view  of the reports submitted by the various commission chairpersons, the concept of “human rights education” should  figure as such in the texts that are submitted to us. The same holds, perhaps, for the concept of “poverty  eradication”, which, like “human rights education”, is a very specific conflict-prevention method. It is through  these specific activities in the area of solidarity and freedom that the various conflicts in the world are prevented.
(21.4) Lastly, my delegation also thinks that our conclusions should probably include a reference to youth,  taking into account the importance of the forum that has just been held. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Spain, and I now invite the representative of Uzbekistan to take the floor.
23.1 Mr IKRAMOV (Uzbekistan):  Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Chairperson of the  Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Uzbekistan I would like to  express our support for the reports of the chairpersons of the different commissions presented during the General  Conference, and particularly the reports on the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. We  consider that this programme should be the key programme of UNESCO in the twenty-first century in all its  fields of competence in education, science, culture and communication.
23.2 The new UNESCO projects and initiatives in the field of inter-religious dialogue in the context of  intercultural dialogue could contribute a lot to the development of a culture of peace in the Member States. In this  regard we would like to recall that the Tashkent Declaration on a culture of peace and activities of UNESCO in  Member States, which was adopted by the Executive Board at its 155th session, which was held in Tashkent in  November last year, urged Member States to adopt programmes on the culture of peace in the year 2000. The  Republic of Uzbekistan immediately prepared and adopted a special national programme which will start in 1999  and continue in the next decade, devoted to the culture of peace. There are several activities foreseen and some of  them have already been implemented, such as the second International Music Festival, which was held in  Samarkand with the support of the Government of Uzbekistan and under the patronage of UNESCO, and brought  together more than 400 artists from different parts of the world who for one week had the opportunity to share  their knowledge and culture. To give another example, to celebrate International Day of Peace on 14 September  in Uzbekistan, we held major festivities in four historic sites - Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara and Khiva -  including scientific meetings, educational programmes and cultural activities, the events being concluded by the  signing of Manifesto 2000.
23.3 We consider that the culture of peace idea should be widespread among all educational institutions  worldwide. In Uzbekistan, in particular, we have initiated pilot projects to this end through high schools, various  youth camps and educational camps and among youth leaders of our country and region. The academic  programme of the International Institute for Central Asian Studies, which was established with the support of  UNESCO in Samarkand, has already been approved for the years 2000-2001, with special studies on the culture  of peace and the history of the culture of peace in Central Asia. It will consolidate the studies and research of  scholars from different parts of the world on the culture of peace idea, including the study of its origins and  practical recommendations for the future.
23.4 In this connection, we consider very important - and support the distinguished delegates who spoke on  this issue in Commission IV and here in the plenary - the completion of the “histories” of different regions,  particularly the completion of the History of Civilizations of Central Asia, stressing as we do the importance of  this matter for the further development of a culture of peace. In this regard, we would like to make certain  specific proposals. Unfortunately, when work on this History began, our countries of Central Asia were not  independent. And since 1991, when the countries became independent, not all the scholars and the scientific  community of Central Asia have been broadly involved in the preparation of this History. Our proposals concern  starting work on the revision of the History from the beginning, with broad involvement of scholars from Central  Asia so that they may have the opportunity to express their viewpoints as well.
23.5 In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to express our hope that the coming years will show us the  real, practical implementation of culture of peace ideals and programmes worldwide. Thank you very much.
24. Le PRESIDENT :  Et maintenant je donne la parole a la représentante de la France.
25.1 Mme BEST (France) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord de m'associer à notre collègue de la délégation de  l'Espagne pour dire combien l'éducation aux droits de l'homme est pour nous capitale, et au coeur même de la
21   culture de la paix. Qu'il me soit permis aussi de féliciter les présidents des commissions pour leurs excellents  rapports, d'une fidélité et d'une profondeur en tous points remarquables. Nous les remercions très vivement.
25.2 Monsieur le Président, je me propose de reprendre très simplement deux idées que nous avons  défendues au sein des diverses commissions, en nous réjouissant du caractère transdisciplinaire du projet "Vers  une culture de la paix". La première, déjà évoquée, je viens de le dire, par la délégation de l'Espagne, est que la  culture de la paix a pour socle les droits de l'homme, considérés comme universels, indivisibles, intangibles, et,  par voie de conséquence, l'éducation aux droits de l'homme et le droit à l'éducation. En d'autres termes, sans  éducation aux droits de l'homme, nous ne voyons pas bien comment nous pourrions faire avancer la culture de la  paix.
25.3 La deuxième idée est que l'éducation civique est tout aussi nécessaire et qu'elle doit être pleinement  intégrée à l'éducation aux droits de l'homme, ou vice versa, comme on voudra. Quoi qu'il en soit, l'éducation aux  droits de l'homme et la culture de la paix doivent prendre en compte les droits civils, civiques et politiques, qui  sont inscrits dans la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme, au même titre que les droits économiques,  sociaux et culturels.
25.4 Avant de conclure, je voudrais dire tout l'attachement de la France à la Déclaration universelle des droits  de l'homme et à son enseignement, qui doit être suivi d'effets, et, dans cette même perspective, son attachement  au dialogue interculturel entre tous les pays, entre toutes les nations. Je me réjouis de voir plusieurs décennies à  venir, dont la Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la non-violence et de la paix au profit des  enfants du monde, à laquelle s'associe l'UNESCO, s'inspirer de la Déclaration universelle, et je voudrais par-  dessus tout remercier infiniment, au nom de la France, le Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, pour l'admirable  partenariat qui s'est instauré entre l'UNESCO et la France à l'occasion de la commémoration du cinquantenaire de  la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme. Encore merci.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now I give the floor to the representative of Sudan.  (old) 5vse z JI adi Yv  PE] ii] 51381 pli [RW Ops Le JS aay (Fob $I «pled dl Gow pub J Sane (SE
5 pol BE Lad] Los Lilie er ol cxl3L sll lag cell 136 4 Ÿ ol lady pd  S wed dagdy golsills Lb! yiaally ols Geile! (5,531 Glad! JS soll JYCON ETP  iy pDLAI BES Ge Jad of 3S0550lf re Lil ald Sus gl) LabAl Sh pad 465 a> § las pal  JS sel Glad § Ll (52 Lio Jens ols pl Wasi JS J Lab Jord| bb à Lolly La
4455 dill oda piel SIN ale sSupand call pall spud! wal SS of Le » V9 pEadly clas  >> ji sets ob 3,00 Ge "poll PE] vig ee Ji ol le hors ol ol Coles glug Ll  Sere gl 33 es sm 095 NY of pO BU 145 US oly (wld ow ol ol Jl Jus es  bd Gas Oly gall le mained pod O2 Vy cpl Vl § JOUSS5 #15 § Jad Ge 2 Dé (pd las  FI pail! labia Seal JolS33 Lily loamy Dydl Gage cd 0dgd shud] hx andl ofS  Lally GlsVg pol, dy il pladly ol Seal JolS355 cola si! Lelio PS Lelio wluwies  Ly pL! BW Lay plagued! § Lincïal ald | (aunlly dadSly aaadl) Sold! 3559 5,01, oo  Ls das NI pla $ Lads cond! 12a $3 CALL! dail 4.28 ils ol ge Lisa SI Full diz  ¢ 9S gull pli dl ge JS ds! oslo] dél> ely Ld 5 034 pol DBS CE Gutteadd] Lo 915  ol 55 goss ay pbs sel pale all iy SIT Bom of AB oll 5 Sly anle 9S7 000 aad]  BUS 4,53 zl! dol gaol fag Taal és gd ob plain! bo pL! £85 Lolual peas  Olas Guadall slaslyy (LW und 5 ml $ slr LS (pl wl dll slash Lod Jw § pb!
325" sSdsdl gale Hb] § elyadll slid 3S LAS 4 Leas SIT SI Ego pos JI dill diy BI  AN er SLE Bly SI Jey of Sled) Ia 555 UN (laa 13a à Likes bin Ushind "AI 1803
(27) Mr AL-HADJ MOUSSA (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, in less than two months the  International Year for the Culture of Peace will have begun, and consequently this Conference, this year, had no  choice but to give particular consideration to the issue of a culture of peace, which has become the basic axis for all  the other issues relating to human rights, democracy, tolerance and the resurgence of discrimination in education.  This in itself is a memorable success for UNESCO, inasmuch as the Organization has been able to make a culture  of peace a major, fundamental issue in national programmes of action in all parts of the world, and an important  component of political discourse for leaders and rulers. At this point I must commend the Director-General,  Mr Federico Mayor, who has always regarded this issue as one of fundamental importance. What we must do now  is convert the term “culture of peace” from a mere political or cultural expression to a widespread reality among  humanity. If we want “culture of peace” to be anything more than a phrase that is repeated or a slogan that is  brandished, we must take a comprehensive approach to putting it into practice, we must integrate our respective  roles. Society must take precedence over State, and action by individual members of the people must precede  action by leaders. This is not a task for the State alone; rather, the organizations of civil society, the institutions that  generate awareness and form public opinion, must integrate their respective roles, as must religion, science,  education, the arts, literature, mathematics, school, home and place of worship (mosque, church or temple). We in  the Sudan are particularly concerned with the issue of a culture of peace because we need a climate in which the  issue of comprehensive development can be addressed. In this connection, in the course of the past four years we  have organized two regional groups for the study of a culture of peace. Both the Director-General of UNESCO,  Mr Federico Mayor, and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity, Mr Salim Ahmed Salim,  honoured us by attending the first of these groups. Accordingly, we wish to support our interest in a culture of  peace by taking a similar interest in the UNESCO programme concerned with the matter, and, in particular, by  taking the necessary decisions to incorporate the issue of a culture of peace in the field of education, as  recommended in the reports that have been presented to us. Above all, it is essential to train teachers who are  qualified to inculcate the concept of a culture of peace into the minds of young people, both men and women. I  wanted to take this opportunity to urge fellow African delegations to support the draft resolution that we have  submitted for the establishment of a centre for capacity-building, in the framework of the UNESCO project  “Towards a culture of peace”. We have taken a practical step towards that goal. Now to turn a fine phrase into  practical reality and spread it throughout humanity! Thank you, Mr President.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of Barbados.
29.1 Mr ATHERLEY (Barbados):  Thank you, Mr President. Barbados welcomes this opportunity to make a small contribution to this  debate. We have recognized not only in the reports from the various commissions but also in the many national  documents circulated at this General Conference, that there is wide acceptance of the concept, which is usually  tackled through specific actions. There have been many instances of intersectoral and transdisciplinary  approaches, which are clearly at the heart of the culture of peace. The International Year is a significant event  since it will stimulate a lot of ongoing actions and we were happy to be involved, in association with the  UNESCO Office in Barbados, in the launching of the Year on 14 September. The launch took place in one of our  secondary schools but we ensured through media coverage that everybody in our rather small community were  aware of it. On that occasion we challenged the schools and some community organizations to join a committee  that is developing a programme of events for the International Year. There is great excitement on the part of  young people, who have suggested lots of activities for the International Year, and we are hoping that their  enthusiasm will stimulate greater interest by adults. This activity is chaired by the Chief Education Officer,  showing that, for us, education is placed at the heart of all our efforts to promote a culture of peace.
29.2 But there is one example I would like to offer as something that will be central to our activities during  the International Year. We have recently established a National Committee on Reconciliation, a topic that is  relevant to all societies. We recognize that societies with a colonial past inherited a number of disadvantages  which were built into the society. Through dialogue and talking about this, and through the development of  specific programmes in which the different groups get together to make progress at the community level or in  businesses, we are involving all the social partners. We hope to stimulate the community to learn to live together  more effectively.
29.3 We recognize that it is important for the whole Caribbean region to share in the development of projects  which will promote the culture of peace, and one area where there has been cooperation is that of democratic  processes and the involvement of persons at all levels of government and decision-making. The Caribbean has  not yet launched the International Year for the Culture of Peace. Saint Lucia will be doing this on 10 December,  and there is a proposal that all the remaining countries that have not yet launched the Year should do so in a joint  programme in early January with a full-scale set of activities. We hope that all small communities will have a  story to tell and that our way of dealing with this noble venture will inspire and be inspired by others. Thank you.  (Ms Moserova resumes the Chair)
30. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank the distinguished delegate of Barbados. The remaining speakers on the list are  Uruguay, Benin, Dominican Republic, Madagascar, Ecuador, Ukraine, Mauritania, Viet Nam, United Republic  of Tanzania, Algeria, Equatorial Guinea and Mali. Are there any more delegates wishing to speak? I shall  therefore close the list of speakers. I now give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Uruguay.
(31.1) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. The transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”, which was  launched in 1996, has always enjoyed the support of our country, Uruguay, which saw it as a first attempt to group  together previously scattered activities. As the hallmark of activities carried out, the culture of peace has become a  common goal of the United Nations system, with UNESCO as the coordinating agency. Here, I digress a moment  to state that, in the international world, “culture of peace” is now synonymous with Federico Mayor Zaragoza.
(31.2) Our country, Madam President, will be anticipating on the International Year for the Culture of Peace by  organizing under its own responsibility the International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible  for Physical Education and Sport (MINEPS III), which will be held in Punta del Este at the end of this month and  to which we urge all countries to send a delegation, which will be received with all of our country’s traditional  hospitality. The year 2000 will also mark the centenary of the publication of José Enrique Rodô’s “Ariel”, a  masterpiece of one of the most famous writers of the Spanish language. “Ariel” had a great influence on all of Latin  American thought as from the beginning of the century, and “Arielism” even became a school of literary thought in  several countries in the Americas. It is worth recalling a line from “Ariel” that fits this Organization perfectly:  “Democracy and science are, in effect, the two irreplaceable pillars on which our civilization rests”.
(31.3) In the contrast between Ariel, the shrewd genie, and Caliban, the monstrous gnome obliged to obey a  superior power, both characters from Shakespeare’s “Tempest”, lies the full symbolism of Rodé’s philosophical  essay, in which he turns to Latin America’s youth and urges it to forsake the pathways of utilitarianism and  sensuality devoid of ideals taken by Caliban, for those followed by Ariel: spirituality, in which intelligence is  prized for itself, beauty, grace and the mysteries of the infinite.
(31.4) Madam President, we therefore support this culture of peace, this transdisciplinary project, and will  support the relevant draft resolutions. Thank you, Madam President.
32. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Uruguay, and now give the floor to Benin, to be followed by the  Dominican Republic. Benin has the floor.
33.1 M. YAI (Bénin) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je tiens a remercier tous les orateurs qui se sont exprimés au nom de leurs  commissions respectives mais, plus en amont, j'aimerais spécialement exprimer ma gratitude à M. Mayor dont le  passage à l'UNESCO aura permis de recentrer les activités de l'Organisation en vue de formuler de nouveaux  concepts et de mettre en oeuvre efficacement celui de culture de la paix. L'Afrique est une grande victime de la  culture de la violence car elle est l'espace vers lequel on exporte plus de balles de fusil que de livres et elle ne  peut qu'attacher un très grand prix à la culture de la paix. En l'occurrence, par culture nous entendons  l'acceptation de la paix, de l'harmonie entre les hommes et entre les peuples à l'instar d'une seconde nature. Le  projet "Vers une culture de la paix" est, à notre avis, d'une telle importance qu'on ne saurait le concevoir comme  comportant seulement deux étapes, une première étape de réflexion philosophique et une seconde étape de mise  en oeuvre. Il me semble que la réflexion philosophique doit se poursuivre, s'affiner et s'approfondir à mesure que  se réalise la mise en oeuvre par le biais de programmes précis relevant de divers secteurs et divers champs  d'activité de l'UNESCO.
33.2 A ce propos, le Bénin se félicite de la recommandation de la Commission IV en faveur d'un nouveau  dialogue interculturel, auquel participent en particulier les cultures dites autochtones. Soucieux d'élargir et  d'approfondir le concept de culture de la paix, le Bénin invite les prochaines assises, les différents forums  consacrés à la culture de la paix, à ajouter à leur panoplie conceptuelle la notion de "culture du partage", j'insiste,  de culture du partage. L'Afrique profonde ne saurait dissocier la culture de la paix d'une culture du partage, car  c'est l'absence de partage ou l'inégal partage des biens, des ressources, des heurs et des malheurs mêmes, entre  jeunes et moins jeunes, entre femmes et hommes, entre les différentes parties de l'humanité, qui est le fondement  de la guerre, de l'absence d'harmonie et de toutes les situations génératrices de violence.
33.3 En conclusion, Madame la Présidente, j'aimerais réaffirmer que le Bénin soutient ce projet et  contribuera par tous les moyens, intellectuels et autres, dont il dispose, à l'approfondir, et je rappelle que nous  aimerions le compléter en y ajoutant le concept d'une culture du partage. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
34. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you very much the distinguished delegate of Benin. Indeed, the culture of sharing is part of and  inseparable from the culture of peace. May I now call on the Dominican Republic, to be followed by  Madagascar. The Dominican Republic has the floor.
(35.1) Ms REYNOSO DE ABUD (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Madam President. I extend greetings to all delegates and in particular to the  outgoing Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor Zaragoza, thanking him on behalf of my country for his unstinting  support for the projects and programmes that we have carried out jointly with UNESCO, and wishing him every  success in the important tasks that await him in the future.
(35.2) We wish to say that, for us, UNESCO has really been a source of inspiration for dialogue. As a result of a  one-week meeting with representatives of all the political, social and economic sectors, who had met to prepare a  national programme for development, the President of the Dominican Republic established the National House of  Dialogue. The National House of Dialogue continues to help the various institutions to resolve many of the internal  problems that arise and, by ably creating a lively dialogue, has effectively served to solve a series of problems that  could have affected our country’s social life.
(35.3) We also consider that, like UNESCO, the culture of peace must be part of the political and strategic  heritage of the next millennium, and that it must be a shared responsibility, not only of UNESCO, but also of all  governments, civil society and, in general, all sectors of national life. We believe that poverty eradication and  respect for human rights, gender equality and inter-racial and intercultural dialogue are basic elements for  achieving that important objective.
(35.4) We also wish to thank UNESCO for a series of activities that have been carried out in the Dominican  Republic, in particular the restoration of the colonial house in which the UNESCO Office in the country has been  installed, the formation of the Children’s and Youth Symphony, mobile libraries and other projects based on  UNESCO?s policy, which have served to develop culture and education in our country. A UNESCO Chair will  soon be opened at the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo. In addition, we are introducing culture of peace  assignments and lectures at all levels of the education system.
(35.5) Lastly, I should like to restate the desire that I expressed earlier in Commission IV: considering that  UNESCO is the specialized agency in the United Nations system that promotes dialogue and peaceful coexistence,  UNESCO must always be present in all forums - committees or commissions - established by or attached to the  United Nations to work for harmony, peace and understanding in conflict situations on a national, bilateral,  regional or - God forbid! - world scale, or else they will remain, as they have done to date, in the hands of generals  or politicians, who in fact maintain belligerent positions and possibly think more about arms sales than about really  achieving the permanent and lasting peace which the future requires and which we must now build. Thank you.
36. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Dominican Republic. I now call Madagascar, to be followed by  Ecuador.
37.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais tout d'abord me féliciter du rôle prépondérant de l'UNESCO  dans la conception de ce thème de la culture de la paix, et rendre un hommage particulier à M. Federico Mayor,  son directeur général, pour les efforts qu'il a déployés afin d'accroître la visibilité de notre Organisation dans ce  domaine. M. Federico Mayor est devenu un ami de Madagascar et laissera des souvenirs impérissables dans notre  pays.
37.2 Le XXe siècle, Madame la Présidente, est un siècle de paradoxes. C'est un siècle où la science a  progressé à pas de géant et où la population mondiale a connu un accroissement tout aussi spectaculaire ; mais  c'est aussi le siècle le plus meurtrier que l'humanité ait jamais connu, avec son cortège de guerres mondiales, de  génocides et de catastrophes naturelles.
37.3 Soucieuse d'initier dès leur plus jeune âge les jeunes Malgaches à ce thème de la culture de la paix,  Madagascar l'a d'ores et déjà intégré dans son programme d'enseignement scolaire comme dans les activités  ordinaires de ses clubs UNESCO et de ses écoles associées. Et le peuple malgache, peuple pacifique s'il en est,  compte organiser à la fin du premier trimestre 2000, avant le Sommet de Libreville au Gabon, c'est-à-dire durant  l'Année internationale de la culture de la paix, une réunion des Etats membres de la sous-région de l'océan Indien,  afin qu'ils réfléchissent à l'avènement d'Etats démocratiques fondés sur la prééminence de l'être humain - dans  son environnement, dans sa culture, dans son contexte économique -, et au respect d'une éthique politique
630   promettant d'assurer une participation encore plus active des peuples a la vie publique ; cette réunion, organisée  avec le concours de l'UNESCO, s'inscrira dans le cadre du projet DEMOS-Afrique-iles de l'océan Indien.
37.4 Est-il besoin de le dire, Madame la Présidente, Madagascar appuie depuis son lancement, c'est-à-dire  depuis l'adoption du Programme et budget pour 1996-1997, le projet transdisciplinaire relatif à une culture de la  paix et soutient pleinement les projets de résolution qui nous sont proposés à ce sujet. Je vous remercie, Madame  la Présidente.
38. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Madagascar, and call on Ecuador, to be followed by Ukraine.
(39.1) Mr CUEVA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, the Republic of Ecuador wishes solemnly to declare that the “culture of peace” concept  has been a brilliant UNESCO initiative and has become a reality thanks to the enthusiasm, ability and forcefulness  of an extraordinary man by the name of Federico Mayor Zaragoza. Federico Mayor has really been the driving  force behind the concept of the culture of peace and its message has struck a deep chord in all countries throughout  the world; but perhaps it has struck deepest in two neighbouring countries: the Republic of Peru and the Republic  of Ecuador. These two republics, divided for 170 years by a border conflict, were prone to frequent clashes, waged  localized wars and wasted their meagre budgetary resources on armed conflicts, which prevented them from  attending to health, education, culture or science. In other words, war impeded these two peoples’ development.
(39.2) Drawing their inspiration from the concept of the culture of peace, Ecuador and Peru entered into a  dialogue, and on 26 October, exactly one year ago, signed the peace. This is the first clear, tangible result of the
21   culture of peace advocated by UNESCO. I believe that on that day the culture of peace became a concrete and  indubitable reality: two countries, at odds for more than 170 years, found the path to peace on the basis of  UNESCQO’s ideas. I believe that this is of the utmost importance, and I will make a request: that the International  Year for the Culture of Peace should be marked by the example of peace between Ecuador and Peru. A general  concept is one thing and it is another, completely different thing for this concept actually to bear fruit. I therefore  request that the 30th session of the General Conference of UNESCO declare that the International Year for the  Culture of Peace should be guided by the example of peace between Ecuador and Peru. My country, Ecuador, has  taken the concept of the “culture of peace” so seriously that it is the only country in the world that has established a  secretariat for the culture of peace directly attached to the Presidency of the State. Our President, Jamil Mahuad,  has established the Secretariat for the Culture of Peace, and the Director-General, Mr Federico Mayor, has been  kind enough to distribute the decree establishing that Secretariat to delegates participating in this General  Conference.
(39.3) Having signed the peace, our two countries, Ecuador and Peru, wish that peace to be not merely be a  statement of intentions, but that it will have tangible results in the border areas of Peru and Ecuador. To that end,  we will hold a meeting in Paris, from 23 to 25 January 2000, to receive support from international bodies, non-  governmental organizations and friendly countries, to ensure that the signing of the peace will result in practical  development projects in the fields of education and culture in the border area between Peru and Ecuador.
(394) I request that the General Conference of UNESCO express support by issuing a special recommendation  on that meeting, which will be held under the auspices of the Inter-American Development Bank in Paris, in the  hope that peace may not merely be a word but an actual fact, and that it may serve to raise living standards,  improve education and strengthen respect for the cultures of people in border areas between Ecuador and Peru. The  primary objective of my statement, Madam President, in addition to setting out these ideas, is to state that, in the  opinion of the Republic of Ecuador, the culture of peace concept will always be linked to the person of Federico  Mayor, a true example for humanity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
40. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for the good news. Thank you for your faith and hope. Ukraine has the floor now, to be  followed by Mauritania.
3HaYHTeIbHa4  paboTa TO HarbHeïmiemy €e IpoIBMKeHHIO HM KOHKPETH3alHH, B YACTHOCTH B TaKHX  HHCTPYMeHTax, Kak /[ekapauma KyIbTypbl MHpa H mnporpamMa neñcTBnH, mpuHaTas l'eneparbHoHñ AccamOneeH  Opraxmsaumn O0beauHeHHbIX Harumi, KoTopyro MbI ceñyac o0cyxmaem. OTH HHCTPYMEHTeI, HA Halll B3IJISI,  ABJITOTCA HOBBIM Ba)KHBIM HMIIYJIBCOM HE TOJIBKO MAIBHEHIIIETO PA3BHTHA KOHLEMLHH KYJIBTYPhI MHPA, HO H €€  pearrbHOro BOILIONeEHHA Ha mpakThke. Kak 3/1ech yke oTMedanoch, Hes KYJIBTYPbI MHPA HAXOJNT BCE Ooliee  HIHPOKHH OTKIIMK B yMaxX JIFOACH CAMbIX Pa3JIHYHbIX KPYTOB OOINECTBEHHOCTH, CTAHOBHTCA AKTYAJIbHOÏ,  IpHoÔpeTaeT BCE OOJBIIYIO MONYIAPHOCTB HM MONIEPKKy. CBHIETENBCTBOM 3TOMY ABJIAETCA 3AABIICHHE  pyKoBOJINTereH MHOTHX TOCY/APpCTB, BH/HbIX IONHTHYECKHX JEATEIIEH H, B KOHII€ KOHIIOB, INPOBO3TITAIICHHE  Opranmsaumeñ O0benuHeHHbIX Haumii MexayHapoxnoro roya mnpa. To kacaeTc4 rpakTHYecKoH Ba)KHOCTH  TEATENBHOCTH FOHECKO B pamxax MexyHapoxnoro roma KylbTypbI MHPA, a TaKrKke €€ JEATEIBHOCTH TO  peamm3aumH MporpaMMbl eÂcTBHH B HHTEpecax KYIIBTYPbI MHPA, XOTEJIOCh Obl OTMETHTb CICAYIONHH MOMEHT.  Vike HEO/IHOKPATHO OTMEYAITOCh, YTO JIEATEIFHOCTh B 3TOM HAIPABIIEHHH B 3HAYHTEIIBHOH CTEIIEHH OTIPEACIIACT  pons FOHECKO B coBpemeHHOM MHpe, CLIOCOOCTBYET YCHITEHHIO €€ 9ITHYECKOH MHCCHH. ITO HOBOJNBHO YETKO  GbL10 TIOTIEPKHYTO B XOJE MPOBEACHHOM B paMKax Oprannsaumn nHCKyCcHH Ha TeMy «Anas porn FOHECKO  B XXI Beke». OcoG0eHHOo BaxxHOH, Ha HAI B3r14;1, MPH OCYIIECTBIICHHH TIPOrpaMMbI ACHCTBUN SABIACTCS  HEOOXOHMOCTb OPHEHTHPOBAHHOCTH HA HAIIHOHAITBHbI6 H PErHOHAJbHbIE HHTEPEChI, HA OKA3AHHE COJEHCTBHA  TOCYAPCTBAM—YJICHAM B OCYIIECTBIICHHH MeporpH4THH mo hopMHPOBAHHIO KYIbTYPbI MHPA, HAIIHOHANBHOÏ H  perHoHarbHOH CTaÔHIbBHOCTH. B CBA3H C 9THM MBI PasHerdem TOYKYy 3peHHa O TOM, YTO Hapauy C  TEOPETHYECKHM OCMbICII€HHEM KOHIEIIHH KYJIbTYPbI MHPA MOopa MepexomuTB K KOHKPETHBIM IIpAKTHYECKHM  JIEUCTBUAM H MpOeKTaM.
41.2 XoTesocb Obl OyKBAIBHO B HECKOJIBKHX CIIOBAX IPOHEMOHCTPHPOBATb MHOXHTEJIbHbIH 3hekT MPOeKTa  «Ha myTu x KkymbType MHpa» Ha rmpakrnke YKpawHbl. 51 xoten Obl mpowmH(popMHpoBaTh, uTO IIpesnenT  Ykpanteb1 nomiepxar Manudect-2000, Harpagms l'exneparbHomy mupekropy FOHECKO mocsanne no cnysaro  MexyHapoxHoro roya mupa. Ha Ykpanne B MapTe toro roma Obuia oprann3oBaHa npu ysacTnn IOHECKO  MexyyHapoumaa xondepeHum4 TO BOMPOCAM HEMOKPATHH KyJIbTypbl MHpa B CTpaHax BocTosxon,  [lerrpasnoh n HOro-Bocrouxoï Eppormi. VYHTbIBAA BAXKHOCTb OOPA3OBATEIIBHOTO KOMIIOHEHTA KYJIbTYPBI
632   MHpa, XOTe11 Obl OTMETHTh, YTO Ha YKpPauWHE co3maeTca y“e0HO-METONHYECKHÜÉ IEHTP TO BOMpPOCaM  TEMOKPATHYECKOTO YIIPABJICHUA, TONEPAHTHOCTH KYJIbTypbI MHpa. B O1HOM H3 yHHBEPpCHTETOB CO3HAHA  cootserctBytomas kadenpa FHOHECKO, paspaGaTeBaroTea yueOHbIE MaTepHarbI TPOrpaMMbI, KOTOpas  BOCIHTbIBA@T MOJOO0€ TIOKOJIEHHE B JIyXe KYJIBTYphl MHpa, TOJEpaHTHOCTH. TakHM oOpa3oM, co31aHa CeTb  CTPYKTYp Ha YkpanHe, KoTopa4 COASHCTBYET pearm3armH 00pa3oBaTeIbHOTO ACIEKTA MPOEKTA KYJIbTYPbI MHPA.  XoTerocb Obl oOpaTHTb BHHMAHHE HA HOBATOPCKHH ACIEKT IpOrpaMMbI eñersnh. Mer cuntaem, “TO  JEATEIIBHOCTb B HHTepecax KyJIbTypbI MHpa OyJeT akTyabHa H MepcreKTHBHa JIHMb TOTAA, KOrma OHA OyAer  HAIIeJIeHa Ha COMEHCTBHE HOBATOPCKHM IO/IXOMAM, OTBEYAIOINHM HOBBIM CHTYALHAM H TIOTPEOHOCTAM BPEMEHH  CTpaH H pernoHoB. MBI cuuTaeM, YTo OyaymeH mnporpamme Heo0xo4HuMo Gonee YeTKO ChOPMYTUPOBATE LETH H
3T0 TOT MaHHdecT, To 3Hamsa Oyaymero FOHECKO, KoTopoe Hbrhemmmñ l'enepanbHbIà JUPEKTOP nepesaeT  HOBOMy l'exneparbHomy mpekropy Hamed Oprannsaummn, H, XOTENOCb Obl BbIPA3HTb YBEpeHHOCTh, HYTO  FOHECKO wu B manbHeñmem OyaeT kmrouesoñ Oprannsanmeñ, crocoOcTByromeH hopmMhHpoBaHHro B yMax moyen  KYJIBTYPbI MHpa, TOJIepaHTHOCTH H HeHaCHH4. Hama nereraims MonIEepKHBAaeT MPOEKT PEINeHUs MO TOMY  Bonpocy. biaromapro Bac.
(41.1) Mr DEMIANIUK (Ukraine) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. Ukraine has on numerous occasions demonstrated its support for  UNESCO'?s efforts to bring about a culture of peace, a climate of tolerance, and international stability and security  through humanitarian means. These lines of thrust are given priority in Ukraine’s foreign policy. Our delegation is  pleased to note the progress in the development of the concept of a culture of peace, and the tremendous role that  UNESCO has played in this regard. Since 1989, when this concept was first formulated, the Organization has  accomplished significant work to further develop it and put it into practice, in particular in such instruments as the  United Nations General Assembly’s Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, which we are  now discussing. These instruments provide, in our view, an important new impetus not only to further elaborate the  concept of the culture of peace, but also to ensure that it is genuinely put into practice. As has already been noted  here, the idea of a culture of peace is sparking an increasingly broad response among the most diverse sections of  civil society, becoming ever more topical and acquiring ever greater popularity and support. This is demonstrated  by the declarations of the leaders of numerous countries and other prominent politicians, and to crown it all, by the  proclamation by the United Nations of the International Year for the Culture of Peace. With regard to the practical  importance of UNESCO’s action within the framework of the International Year for the Culture of Peace, and also  its involvement in the Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace, I should like to make the following comments.  It has been repeatedly stressed that action in these areas to a significant degree defines the role of UNESCO in the  contemporary world, and helps to strengthen its ethical mission. That was fairly clearly emphasised during the  discussions held by the Organization on the theme “Analysis of the role of UNESCO in the twenty-first century”.  Particularly important for the implementation of the Programme of Action, in our view, is the need to acknowledge  national and regional interests and to assist Member States with the implementation of measures aimed at bringing  about a culture of peace and national and regional stability. In this connection, we share the view that alongside the  theoretical conceptualization of a culture of peace, it is time to move on to concrete practical actions and projects.
(41.2) Allow me to give a brief description of the multiplier effect of the project “Towards a culture of peace” in  Ukraine. I should like to inform you that the President of Ukraine supported Manifesto 2000, and sent the Director-  General of UNESCO a message on the occasion of the International Year for the Culture of Peace. In March of this  year in Ukraine, with the help of UNESCO, we held the International Conference on Democratic Governance and a  Culture of Peace for Countries of Eastern, Central and South-Eastern Europe. In view of the importance of the  educational component of the culture of peace, I should like to mention the fact that Ukraine is establishing a  centre for the study of democratic governance, tolerance and the culture of peace. In one of our universities, a  corresponding UNESCO Chair is being established and textbooks are being developed for this programme, which  is imbuing the younger generation with the spirit of the culture of peace and tolerance. A network of structures has  thus been established in Ukraine, helping to implement the educational aspect of the culture of peace project. I  should like to draw your attention to the innovative aspect of the Programme of Action. We believe that activities  in favour of the culture of peace can only be relevant and promising if they are aimed at developing innovative  approaches which are geared to the new circumstances and current needs of countries and regions. We consider  that the forthcoming programme must formulate UNESCO’s objectives and tasks in this field more clearly, and  determine the Organization’s role and place in the formation of a global psychology of the culture of peace, in  particular with regard to the implementation of the above-mentioned Declaration and Programme of Action.
(41.3) In conclusion, Madam President, I should like to say that the culture of peace strategy is the manifesto  and banner of UNESCO?s future that the current Director-General will hand to the new Director-General of our  Organization. I am certain that UNESCO will continue to be a key organization in helping to shape, in the minds of  men, a culture of peace, tolerance and non-violence. Our delegation supports the draft resolution on this item.  Thank you.
42. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Ukraine. I now call Mauritania, to be followed by Viet Nam.
43.1 M. OULD KHALIFA (Mauritanie) :  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais tout d'abord, si vous le permettez, vous féliciter de la manière dont  vous avez dirigé nos travaux lors de cette 30e session de la Conférence générale qui tire à sa fin. Je voudrais  aussi m'associer à tous les délégués des autres nations du monde pour rendre un vibrant hommage à M. Mayor,  qui a été un immense directeur général pour cette Organisation qui se présente comme la conscience de  l'humanité. Je voudrais le féliciter pour de multiples raisons, parmi lesquelles je citerai - sans oublier le projet de  Mémorial de Gorée, ou le projet relatif à la Route de l'esclave sur lequel je reviendrai - le grand projet envisagé  par l'Organisation et présenté par le Directeur général, à savoir le dialogue interculturel et l'Année internationale  de la culture de la paix, projet auquel, je le réaffirme à la face du monde, ici représenté par vous, honorables  délégués, mon pays souscrit sans réserve.
43.2 Je rappellerai que, très récemment, la Mauritanie - ceux qui suivent l'actualité internationale le savent - a  fait un grand pas en avant pour promouvoir le dialogue dans le conflit du Moyen-Orient. La Mauritanie va établir  très bientôt des relations diplomatiques avec l'Etat d'Israël dans le but de donner l'exemple à l'ensemble des autres  pays arabes, de montrer que le développement et l'avenir de l'humanité sont intiment liés à la paix.
43.3 Je féliciterai par ailleurs le Directeur général, comme l'ont fait tous les délégués ici présents, d'avoir  assuré, au cours de ses deux mandats successifs, l'achèvement de l'Histoire générale de l'Afrique qui rend à ce  continent sa mémoire et lui permet de regarder en face son passé.
43.4 Il est un point qui retient particulièrement mon attention : celui qui a trait à La Route de l'esclave et à  La traite négrière transatlantique et l'esclavage : un crime contre l'humanité. Dans le cadre du dialogue ultérieur  que va promouvoir l'UNESCO à ce sujet - car ce dialogue est une des bases de la paix - l'Afrique, ce continent  meurtri, avec ses 20 millions d'hommes déportés, lancés sur l'océan Atlantique ou encore exploités pendant cinq  siècles, mérite qu'on envisage des réparations. Ces réparations pourraient éventuellement revêtir la forme  d'investissements qui l'aideraient à se relever et à participer au développement du monde futur, aussi bien  économique que culturel. Je renouvelle mes remerciements au Directeur général.
44. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Mauritania, and now call on Viet Nam, to be followed by Mali.
45.1 Ms LE HOANG CUC (Viet Nam):  Thank you, Madam Presidentro Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly endorse the  transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace” in document 30 C/5, especially the programmes  concerning education for a culture of peace, intercultural dialogue, cultural pluralism and human rights,  democracy and tolerance. We perceive these efforts as presenting an exceptional means of fostering personal  development and building relationships among individuals, groups and nations. For this reason, importance  should be attached to peace education, which covers the basic content and principles of peace and coexistence,  such as respect for the basic rights of human beings and nations, cultural diversity, the practice of tolerance and  so forth. We welcome the establishment of a department of education for a culture of peace in the Education  Sector and we look forward to UNESCO?s assistance, especially in the field of curriculum revision, teacher  training and teaching materials on the culture of peace.
45.2 On this occasion I would like to bring to your attention the message delivered by our Prime Minister on  the occasion of the launching ceremonies for the International Year for the Culture of Peace held on
14 September in Hanoi: “Viet Nam welcomes and highly appreciates the United Nations initiative taken by  UNESCO to commemorate the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace and, along with other  nations in the world, we actively contribute to building a sustainable peace for human beings”.
45.3 Madam President, having suffered many terrible wars, the Vietnamese understand more clearly than  anyone else how precious peace is and have been striving for it for a number of decades. We have actively  participated in various UNESCO activities connected with the culture of peace. A national seminar on the culture  of peace was held in Hanoi in May this year. The International Year for the Culture of Peace was launched in  Hanoi, UNESCO City of Peace prizewinner, on 14 September. The UNESCO Manifesto on the Culture of Peace  has been translated into Vietnamese and we are now preparing for a national seminar on “Education for a culture  of peace” for UNESCO Associated Schools in Viet Nam, to be held in December. We are also planning to  organize, under the Participation Programme, a subregional conference on Asian women and the culture of peace  in Hanoi next year. We feel confident that, given our strong and positive collaboration with the UNESCO Office  in Hanoi and our firm intention to involve other United Nations agencies, our efforts will be successful.
45.4 Madam President, I would like to reiterate our high appreciation of UNESCO’s initiatives and  endeavours concerning a culture of peace. We shall continue to participate in all related programmes and  activities. I would also like to express our sincere thanks to Mr Federico Mayor for his tireless efforts in the  cause of UNESCO in general and the culture of peace in particular. Thank you for your attention.
46. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Viet Nam. Mali has the floor, to be followed by the United Republic of  Tanzania.
47.1 M. DOUCOURE (Mali) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Mesdames et Messieurs, le Mali approuve le contenu des différents  rapports des différentes commissions, dans la mesure où l'activité qui fait l'objet du document 30 C/13 nous  semble essentielle. Suivant la voie tracée par le Directeur général, Federico Mayor, personnellement engagé à cet  égard et se conformant à l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO, le Mali souscrit aux objectifs du programme concernant  l'éducation aux droits de la personne humaine et la culture de la paix. Le Mali apprécie hautement la décision de  la communauté internationale de faire de l'an 2000 l'Année internationale de la culture de la paix et de la  décennie qui commence en 2001 la Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la non-violence et  de la paix au profit des enfants du monde.
47.2 Le Mali souhaite indiquer les mesures qu'il a prises dans ce domaine. Depuis l'avènement d'un système  démocratique, en mars 1991, il a fait de l'éducation à la citoyenneté et de l'éducation aux droits de la personne  humaine un axe important de sa politique de l'éducation. Une réforme des programmes a été entreprise aux  niveaux primaire et secondaire pour réintroduire l'instruction civique et l'éducation à la citoyenneté. Depuis deux  ans, la rentrée scolaire est marquée par une semaine d'éducation civique et d'éveil patriotique dont le but est  d'aider les élèves à apprendre les fondements de la vie en société. Le gouvernement a également ouvert un espace  d'interpellation démocratique (EID) qui, tous les 10 décembre, date anniversaire de la Déclaration universelle des  droits de l'homme, permet une interpellation directe et publique, devant un jury d'honneur par tout citoyen ou  toute association qui le désire sur la question des droits de l'homme et du citoyen.
47.3 Le Mali a une expérience pratique intéressante en matière de règlement des conflits, qu'il s'agisse de la  rébellion du nord du Mali, ou des affrontements sociaux violents qui se sont produits notamment dans le domaine  scolaire. Dans tous les cas, le Mali a su s'appuyer sur les fondements structurels d'une culture de la paix existant  au sein des communautés qui le composent. C'est ainsi que la flamme de la paix a pu être ranimée, qu'on a assisté  à l'autodissolution des groupes armés antagonistes et que le Président de la République du Mali a été en mesure  de lancer une initiative visant à appliquer un moratoire relatif aux armes légères en Afrique de l'Ouest. Afin de  perpétuer les valeurs fondamentales qui lui ont permis de résoudre les conflits auxquels il a dû faire face dans son  pays, le gouvernement malien a demandé que soit créée une chaire UNESCO pour la culture de la paix à  l'Université du Mali. Le Mali remercie le Directeur général, Federico Mayor, d'avoir donné son accord pour  l'exécution de ce projet et souhaite ardemment que cette chaire voie le jour pendant l'Année internationale de la  culture de la paix.
47.4 Madame la Présidente, afin de promouvoir les valeurs fondamentales que constituent les droits de la  personne humaine et la culture de la paix, le Mali propose à l'UNESCO d'organiser, au Mali, en décembre 2000,  un forum pour la culture de la paix en Afrique, qui ferait le bilan de l'Année internationale de la culture de la  paix. Enfin, Madame la Présidente, nous sommes favorables au projet de résolution pertinent. Je vous remercie.
48. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Mali most sincerely. I now call on the delegate of the United  Republic of Tanzania, to be followed by Algeria.
49.1 Mr SHEY A (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you Madam President. Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the chairpersons of the  various programme commissions for their elaborate reports on the debates in their commissions on the  transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”.
49.2 Madam President, Tanzania is an island of peace in Africa. However, this peace has not been God-given  and therefore we cannot take it for granted. The peace of our land needs to be nourished and sustained. The  Government and people of Tanzania are making deliberate efforts at all levels to consolidate our hard-earned  peace and stability. Tanzania has about 120 ethnic groups, or tribes. Each group is unique in its own way, with its  own culture and traditions. Yet, all the 120 groups or so are united through a common language, Kiswahili, which  exists in parallel with the various vernacular languages. In Tanzania there is a free mobility of people within the  country and among cultures. There is an intercultural dialogue and mix of tribes in schools, at places of work, and
21   so on. This has inevitably generated an intercultural dialogue among the Tanzanian people, promoted inter-  religious and intertribal partnership and even led to intermarriages. The people of Tanzania have coexisted  amidst all their difficulties, including severe economic difficulties, with equal respect for one another and equal  dignity. We thank the father of our nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, for his vision and  wisdom to build a nation that values harmony, peace, tolerance and equality.
49.3 Tanzania will continue to collaborate with UNESCO and with the international community in promoting  peace, tolerance and non-violence through sensitization and deliberate actions to foster an education for a culture  of peace and non-violence. Tanzania will continue to cherish sustainable peace-building processes within its  borders and with other countries. Tanzania commends UNESCO, particularly its Director-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, for the emphasis he has given to the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. Madam  President, we also thank UNESCO for having chosen Tanzania to host the Pan-African Women’s Conference on  the Culture of Peace and Non-Violence which was held in May this year in Zanzibar. We hope the General  Conference of UNESCO will adopt the Zanzibar Declaration “Women of Africa for a Culture of Peace” and the  “Women’s Agenda for a Culture of Peace in Africa”. I thank you.
50. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you for this optimistic contribution. We have two more speakers on my list, Algeria and  Equatorial Guinea. After that I shall take the liberty of making a remark before giving the floor to the last and  best-qualified speaker on this particular subject, Federico Mayor. So now I call on Algeria.  Pld de audi ey)  clés JE Le GleUI 5 de Lila 5555 pS] Bd cp, psd! Leal clash J Band! (1,53
3 ls 5 Sind § sod 359 of Lpadsll lan à gS! me Lisles olay drs pass DL US  pad US) oan ll Jo Us ysgaz vas) 0935 fay coll IS à poll Dla, Zabail) LIEN  pol Lassie! I pled BU Lgll EI Solos cdl) Bed] Sida) asain Loong 3)  Das JI Clay Vl wl sly God À pli Jai On S150 Lea pis I Blandl spell pa Ban  Sy Jbl Jlaally cpm DONS coimeally CARE im A US Bay Sil slal 5e SIN lis  USE" ca 038 Le 0d old! Golo So py de Lelnt Syons pill Jad aby de
3 saved! OLY pla ily day ELI lan] 5 (Libs Dllasy Shy ply Slax] as Hall eg}  SDL of epSI peal Aub Sane Lesley CUS 5 duel pd All LE pei Ly cs  Jl eBags Ld lead! 10s Gag of dbuyd (Suds! 4d] 9005 $31 sl whlandl ls JI albis  play glad AS Golf Sygoall oda le pl oy Glan! Lois Jiesg 290 LS >I ls  Sh Bee vere wy AI SE a 5 Li SN Bas ll Lolo (wl SO Of (Awl Saw ON
03a 3 pbglly poll IS] Jf Dol JI Lp Slit vagal pels oF Joby 0 LAS Jf dale Labs § sell 00  Bal of pL gal edad JI Sage 331g pail] Sb! Ld gpg Ld] CELL Jind SF abil  JS; il p2byy al] Ltd Arley ALI 08 Gugy Leblanc! Yo 1448 SDL À Duly  sla] $5 Vis Be BY oll pug Bla (BAI Cally ay Tp SIS Lago Slug]  pag poll] 3035 Ge WULT mows oF az 32 (Sy chaz Basho Gugpall Als ilSy ddl slog EU  pas Wile à LSLLY LD 5,55 Line Us| ASIN Samad) Slat Jal ue poll Goal meds 3 ya  ll Lgl pate LI 05  ad Sy ybll lay à LS Us cpl $ sans oly 8 di loans ie Lil cd JJ Bd o\LY  > ges cashless GLa Clsally Jel! Lol Ils U1 oa baa Aus JS of JSS  roils AY me Job gan LA Soanly lls 6565 dy (55 J] inl Us JS pad ols;  gaz 025 Lay ola) Yl Jay dially Baie laa! sail) ISBN (> ola IS 5e puld lo Lis  es Jl Lawlo Ge oly 03g. Jbolly Soll nUslly ald Sla>L SW elas 5 dyggoadl (uty ls  LY wslsy Fall pl passe à cand] Tyjpgendl uy ul Of am ole Je WL Lik
636   phd) Jal Ld Ol § Lawl! Soil Gp pla Il bals 20 ill pS 808 Land Le Lass  TSE 6 SDL À Gabe GMI PAU pl pl Gime sa fang shall die Jel
(51.1) Mr ALI (Algeria) (Translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, I should like to express my  appreciation for what the Commission’s report has to say about a culture of peace. My delegation fully concurs,  and I wish to state that we propose to cooperate with UNESCO in the matter. My delegation participated in the  discussions relating to a culture of peace in all the commissions, and made it clear that the President of the  Republic ardently desires peace and supports the peace plan that UNESCO is following and applying. Madam  President, the International Year for the Culture of Peace proclaimed by the United Nations coincides with a  massive effort on the part of Algeria to bring about peace within the country by putting an end to the horrors of  terrorism, to which tens of thousands of Algerians have fallen victim, including people from all walks of life,  intellectuals, journalists, farmers, workers, children, and anyone who raised the banner of enlightenment.  Responding to a courageous initiative on the part of the President of the Republic, the Algerian Parliament passed  the Civil Reconciliation Law, the aim of which is national reconciliation and a national truce, followed by the  establishment of genuine stability and the return of the security that has been so severely shaken. This will lead to  the reinvigoration of the various areas of the development sector. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my  country is looking forward to the serious dialogue between civilizations for which UNESCO is calling, provided  that that dialogue includes among its aims recognition of the other as he or she really is. We must all live together  on the earth, and consequently cooperation and mutual respect are essential.
(51.2) Madam President, Algeria is currently heading the Organization of African Unity, at a time when there  are a number of points of tension that are urgently in need of being defused. We are hoping for success in bringing  peace and reconciliation to the region to which we are proud to belong, and which we hope will steadily progress  and flourish. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Algeria the 1999/2000 school year opened with studies on  peace, humanity’s need for peace and the rejection of violence by any means, on any pretext, beginning with verbal  violence. The study of history plays a supporting role, since it furnishes instructive examples and helps ensure that  the mistakes of the past and humanity’s tragedies will not be repeated. These studies have been most beneficial. It  is a lovely thing to hear schoolchildren explaining to their friends how important peace is for a happy and  meaningful life. We have become our own children’s pupils at home: it is they who explain peace and  reconciliation to us.
(51.3) Madam President, we in Algeria have a plurality of parties in a pluralistic Parliament. There was a time  when we thought as blocs: each bloc was quite sure that it alone held the key to solutions to the country’s  problems. But as time passed and we engaged in dialogue, we have come to realize that we need each other.  Consequently, our views have changed, and we have instituted what we call interaction with one another. Little by  little we have agreed on common denominators in finding a solution to a multifaceted problem that is complicated  by the fact of terrorism. We all stand behind the President of the Republic in his extraordinary effort to bring about  peace and civil and national reconciliation, all the more willingly because we are sure of being on the right track:  the President of the Republic consulted the people in a referendum on civil reconciliation, and the answer was a  great gift from the people, which put an end to uncertainty and created consensus among the country’s political  forces. Peace is indeed beautiful, and forgiveness is more beautiful still. This is what the Civil Reconciliation Law  has to offer, and it is now being applied in Algeria. Thank you.
52. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Algeria most sincerely. I now call upon the last speaker on my list,  the representative of Equatorial Guinea.
(53.1) Mr EDJO OVONO (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. At this stage of the discussion on the project “Towards a culture of peace”,  I should like to refer to something very interesting that I saw in the last issue of the UNESCO Courier. On page 27,  it says, among other things, that there is a provision in the Japanese Magna Carta which states that peace and  harmony must be respected because they are very important to relations among groups. This inspires reflection on  the need for the real and effective existence of the culture of peace and non-violence.
(53.2) The people of Equatorial Guinea, peaceful by nature, shun violence and do their utmost to practise  peaceful coexistence. The protection and preservation of the peace that now prevails in Equatorial Guinea is one of  the highest aspirations of the national government, and it therefore promotes initiatives that contribute to the  achievement of this overarching objective. The establishment of the National Committee on the Rights of the Child  and of the Centre for the Study and Promotion of Human Rights, as well as the proposal to establish a subregional  Parliament in Central Africa are some of those initiatives. The National University of Equatorial Guinea has  established, with the Organization’s assistance, a UNESCO Chair in “Education for peace, respect for human rights  and democracy”, with the objectives of: inculcating basic rights, promoting respect for them and combating  discrimination; providing civics education to safeguard the critical mass of values that make us more peaceful,  tolerant and supportive; contributing to the consolidation of the country’s democratization process; strengthening  cultural pluralism and inter-ethnic dialogue; and promoting dialogue and conflict prevention practices.
(53.3) My country therefore resolutely supports the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. The  initiative to make the year 2000 the International Year for the Culture of Peace also has my country’s support,  which, I say this in passing, also extends to the draft resolution that has been submitted to this plenary meeting.
(53.4) Madam President, as the Head of our delegation has said in this room: “Truth does not hurt, but it cannot  be cured”. It will be difficult, if not impossible, to dissociate Federico Mayor Zaragoza’s name from the  Organization’s great achievements and accomplishments at the close of this century and millennium. Some of us  will remember him as a man with a special predilection for the cause of the poor, the illiterate, women and youth;  in a word, as the champion of the cause of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable. Others will try to keep in mind  for as long as possible the Spanish fervour of his speeches and the memory of someone who has bequeathed  UNESCO and the international community a vision of the world and a blueprint for society”. We wish to take this  opportunity to wish him health, a long life and success in his future endeavours. Thank you very much, Madam  President.
54.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Equatorial Guinea most sincerely. Mr Director-General, Sir, you will  certainly be happy with the response that you are hearing at this particular meeting.
54.2 Now, I should like to make a remark, if I may - not a general remark but a very specific one. It pertains  to the report which was given by the Chairperson of Commission V, dealing with the media and communication.  I think that entertainment in the media, which is dealt with less often than other parts of the media, plays an  important role in shaping public opinion and setting values, and I am very much afraid, and I say so repeatedly,  that most of the videos and movies produced set standards of human values that are totally irreconcilable with the  true culture of peace. I should therefore like to propose work on a project - not for this biennium but for the  next - which would establish a UNESCO prize financed from extrabudgetary resources, and I already have one  tentative promise of a contribution from a large bank, for visual entertainment on television or film which would  have the five “Es”. T am sorry, this will perhaps not translate into Arabic or Russian, but it may work in French  and Spanish: it would enlighten, educate, enrich, encourage the human individual and at the same time entertain.  So I am just using this opportunity to ask for support and for cooperation from the Member States for this idea
638   which might contribute towards the culture of peace. And now I shall give the floor to the person who certainly  deserves it, the Director-General, Federico Mayor.
55.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs, les  différentes interventions que nous venons d'entendre seront désormais pour l'UNESCO une source d'inspiration  dans l'action qu'elle est appelée à mener en tant qu'organisation du système des Nations Unies responsable de la  mise en oeuvre de la Déclaration et du Programme d'action qui ont été approuvés par l'Assemblée générale le
13 septembre 1999, postérieurement à l'élaboration du C/5 ainsi que du C/6, c'est-à-dire du document contenant  les recommandations du Conseil exécutif sur le Projet de programme et de budget, et dont il n'est par conséquent  pas fait mention dans les projets de résolution qui vous sont présentés aujourd'hui.
55.2 Ces deux très beaux textes de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, adoptés au terme de neuf mois de  discussions au cours desquelles tous vos pays sont intervenus, précisent les différentes étapes de l'action qu'il va  falloir à présent engager et répondent ainsi par avance aux préoccupations que vous avez exprimées. L'article  premier de la Déclaration indique par exemple que la culture de la paix peut être définie comme "l'ensemble des  valeurs, des attitudes, des traditions, des comportements et des modes de vie fondés sur (...) le respect de la vie,  le rejet de la violence et la promotion et la pratique de la non-violence par l'éducation, le dialogue et la  coopération”, faisant écho au représentant de la République dominicaine qui soulignait l'importance du dialogue.  De même, le Bénin nous a rappelé à juste titre que la culture de la paix doit être une culture du partage visant à  corriger et réduire toutes les inégalités. Or, l'article 3, alinéa (f), ne dit pas autre chose : "l'épanouissement d'une  culture de la paix est lié de façon intrinsèque à (...) l'élimination de la pauvreté et de l'analphabétisme et la  réduction des inégalités au sein des nations et entre celles-ci". Quant au Plan d'action, il énumère un certain  nombre de mesures concrètes que certains orateurs ont appelées de leurs voeux : mesures pour renforcer une  culture de la paix par l'éducation, mesures pour promouvoir le développement économique et social durable,  mesures pour promouvoir le respect de tous les droits de l'homme, mesures pour assurer l'égalité entre les  femmes et les hommes, mesures pour favoriser la participation démocratique, mesures pour faire progresser la  compréhension, la tolérance et la solidarité, mesures pour soutenir la communication participative et la libre  circulation de l'information et des connaissances, mesures pour promouvoir la paix et la sécurité internationales.
55.3 Si cette Déclaration et ce Programme d'action s'adressent au premier chef à l'Organisation des Nations  Unies, ils s'inscrivent dans le droit fil de la Déclaration adoptée par le Conseil exécutif à Tachkent et mettent  l'accent sur un certain nombre d'aspects relevant de la compétence de l'UNESCO, laquelle, je l'ai dit, s'est vu  confier la responsabilité de leur mise en oeuvre. D'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies s'associeront,  dans leurs domaines de compétence respectifs, à nos efforts, comme elles se sont déjà jointes à notre réflexion au  sein du Comité administratif de coordination, présidé par le Secrétaire général de l'ONU.
55.4 Madame la Présidente, je voudrais pour terminer vous remercier personnellement, et avec vous tous  ceux qui sont ici présents, pour le soutien que vous m'avez apporté et que vous apporterez, j'en suis sûr, demain,  à mon successeur. J'en ai parlé avec lui, je sais que M. Matsuura partage ma conviction que la mission  fondamentale de l'UNESCO est de promouvoir la culture de la paix jusqu'à ce que celle-ci l'emporte  définitivement sur la culture de la force, de la contrainte et de la violence qui, hélas, prévaut encore aujourd'hui.  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.  (Applaudissements)
56.1 The PRESIDENT:  We now turn to the resolutions before us and it should not be a difficult or lengthy exercise. The first is  the resolution proposed in paragraph 05100, subparagraph (a)(1), of document 30 C/5 relating to the International  Year for the Culture of Peace. For your convenience, the resolution has been reproduced on a separate sheet that  has been distributed to you. The distinguished delegations also have a copy of document 30 C/5 in their files. It  should be noted that, although the full resolution proposed in paragraph 05100 has been reproduced on this sheet,  what is submitted for adoption today is just subparagraph (a)(i) which relates to the celebration of the  International Year for the Culture of Peace. Activities foreseen for that purpose are truly intersectoral and  therefore could not be referred to a specific programme commission; hence their consideration directly by the  plenary. The rest of the resolution contained in paragraph 05100 has been considered in Commission III as the  activities to which it refers are implemented by the Social and Human Sciences Sector. The other resolutions  relating to the transdisciplinary project have been dealt with in programme commissions and will be submitted to  the plenary in due course. So if you turn to the document which I mentioned and to subparagraph (a)(i), you will  see that it reads: “to implement the following plan of action in order to: (i) mobilize the broadest possible range  of partners, at both national and international levels, so as to raise public awareness of the objectives of the  International Year for the Culture of Peace, and thus lay the foundations for a broad alliance linking the many
21   movements, groups and institutions which are working, each within its own field, to establish a culture of peace”.  This is what we have to adopt first, for the reasons mentioned above. Can we adopt this short paragraph?
56.2 The resolution in paragraph 05100, subparagraph (a)(1), of document 30 C/5 relating to the International  Year for the Culture of Peace is adopted.
56.3 The second resolution before us is the resolution proposed by the Executive Board in paragraph 27 of  document 30 C/6, “Recommendations by the Executive Board on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-
2001”. It concerns the whole of the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. Again, to make things  simpler and easier to understand, you will find the text of the resolution on the sheet that was distributed to you,  and of course you have a copy of document 30 C/6 in your file. Would you kindly look at paragraph 27; I would  rather not read it out because it is fairly lengthy, but will do so if you wish. I hope it will meet with your  approval. The representative of El Salvador has the floor.
(57.1) Ms CUBIAS MEDINA (EI Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. The delegation of El Salvador wishes to propose an addition to  paragraph 1 of the draft resolution that has been submitted. That paragraph reads as follows, and I shall read from  the beginning: “Invites the Director-General to further develop, in line with the Medium-Term Strategy for 1996-
2001, the coherence of UNESCO?s strategies fostering a culture of peace, as the expression of its fundamental  mandate to which all of UNESCO’s activities must contribute;” to which we propose to add: “and to provide the  Organization’s full contribution to implementation of the Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace adopted by  the General Assembly of the United Nations (Resolution 53/243)”.
(57.2) The proposed amendment is in keeping with the support that UNESCO has always given to activities  aimed at programme implementation. We may recall, in this regard, the first International Forum on the Culture of  Peace, held in San Salvador in 1994, at which full support was given to this type of activity. Considering that the  transdisciplinary project itself recommends the preparation of national programmes of action, we should also like  account to be taken of those national programmes’ conformity with the contents of the United Nations Programme  of Action, so that if a national programme conforms with those contents, it may again receive UNESCO support to  carry out the activities planned. Thank you.
58. The PRESIDENT:  Madam, I shall have to ask you for the proposed amendment in writing because it was hard to  distinguish the amendment itself from the commentary.
(59) Mr SREDIN (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. The Russian delegation supports the amendment proposed by El Salvador.  Thank you.
60.1 The PRESIDENT:  Yes I understand the amendment is also supported by Ecuador. Do I see any other support? Yes, it is  supported. Lithuania, Guatemala, Dominican Republic, Honduras. And now we have it in writing, so everybody  can understand the proposal. Are there any other remarks?
60.2 The resolution proposed by the Executive Board in document 30 C/6, as amended by El Salvador, is  adopted.
60.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of this session, the words of peace have been on all our  lips since the beginning of this meeting and I hope it will not be only words because words are easily spoken.  What better way to end than with words of peace put to music, and who better than the celebrated singer from  Gabon, Angele ASSELE, appointed “UNESCO Artist for Peace” last Wednesday, to sing for us. Madame Assele  was among the artists who performed at the ceremony held in Libreville on 11 September to mark Gabon’s  adherence to the “Manifesto 2000 for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence”. And today she is with us to sing her  songs of peace and will be joined on the stage by members of the UNESCO children’s club. It is a nice way to  end our meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome UNESCO’s Artist for Peace, Angèle Assele.  (The Conference hears a musical performance)
60.4 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall close this meeting with this musical performance and I think it was a  good idea because we have had music, we have had words of peace, and we have had representatives of the  future on the stage. And that is important. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for staying with us here on a  Saturday afternoon, and I wish you a nice weekend. We shall meet again in plenary on Monday morning at
10 a.m. for the investiture of the Director-General. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée a 13 h.35  The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.35