Dix-septième séance plénière
9 novembre 1999 à 17 h.40  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Seventeenth plenary meeting
9 November 1999 at 5.40 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Decimoséptima sesiôn plenaria
5 pine daslull doled] dsl]  PSTN SN CFE COMP [IVER ot  (Seid ds year) Bg 2550 83g, [XY] : AS  RAA à,  EBTURESZ
555   ELECTION DE MEMBRES DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  ELECCION DE MIEMBROS DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  BbIBOPbI WIEHOB HCTIOJIHHTEJIBHOTO COBETA  SIA pulamall 3 sla] Gla!  IX BUT RIZE DA
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  I declare open the seventeenth plenary meeting of the General Conference. Before we enter into the  agenda I should like to inform you about the message from the technical personnel. I have been notified that the  technical staff are on strike as part of the general strike of UNESCO?s personnel but in view of the importance of  this occasion they will service the plenary meeting to the full extent. I am grateful to them for this.
1.2 I should like to ask Ambassador Demers, who, as Returning Officer, supervised the voting at the polling  station, to read out the results of today’s ballot. We shall proceed by electoral group, beginning with Group I. It  should be recalled that the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of Palau have become recently  members of UNESCO and they are included in electoral Group IV, as proposed in document 30 C/NOM/2.  Mr Demers, you have the floor.
2.1 M. DEMERS (Canada), Président du bureau de vote :  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. En ma qualité de vice-président de la Conférence générale  désigné pour superviser l'élection de membres du Conseil exécutif à laquelle il a été procédé aujourd'hui, j'ai le  grand plaisir de vous informer que le scrutin s'est déroulé conformément aux dispositions pertinentes du  Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, sans incident et avec une très forte participation. Le  dépouillement s'est effectué dans le strict respect des règles en vigueur et en toute transparence. Les résultats  ayant été concluants, il ne sera pas besoin de procéder à un deuxième tour de scrutin.
2.2 Je tiens à féliciter tous les Etats membres qui se sont employés à promouvoir leur candidature dans un  esprit de compétition démocratique et à réconforter ceux dont les résultats ont pu décevoir les ambitions  légitimes. Aux Etats qui ont été élus aujourd'hui, je présente mes meilleurs voeux et toute ma sympathie. C'est à  eux qu'il reviendra à présent de faire le plus pour le progrès et l'avenir de l'UNESCO. Je voudrais aussi remercier  chaleureusement les représentants des Etats membres qui ont bien voulu remplir les fonctions de scrutateurs :  pour l'Autriche : M. Gerhard Maynhardt ; pour la Côte d'Ivoire : M. Pierre Aka ; pour la Colombie : Mme Natalia  Martin-Leyes Barvo ; pour le Liban : Mme Carla Jazzar ; pour la Lituanie : Mme Violeta Barauskiene ; et pour  les Tonga : M. Paula Bloomfield. J'adresse enfin mes meilleurs remerciements au Secrétaire de la Conférence  générale et à tous ses collaborateurs pour leur soutien exemplaire.
2.3 Avec votre permission, Madame la Présidente, je me propose maintenant de donner lecture des résultats  officiels pour chaque groupe électoral et pour chaque Etat ayant présenté sa candidature à cette élection.  Groupe I : nombre d'Etats membres ayant le droit de vote à la présente session : 178 ; nombre d'Etats membres  n'ayant pas participé au vote : 2 ; abstentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : zéro ; nombre de suffrages exprimés : 176 ;  nombre de voix constituant la majorité requise pour être élu : 89 ; nombre de voix obtenues par chacun des Etats  membres candidats dans l'ordre décroissant du nombre de suffrages exprimés : Italie : 160 ; Espagne : 145 ;  France : 135 ; Grèce : 134 ; Pays-Bas : 134 ; Norvège : 127.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest number of votes and  obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Italy, Spain, France, Greece and  Netherlands. We now turn to Group II. Mr Demers, you have the floor.
4. Mr DEMERS (Canada), Returning Officer:  Thank you, Madam President. For Group II there were five seats to be filled. Number of Member States  entitled to vote at the present session: 178; number of Member States that did not vote: 2; abstentions: 3; invalid  ballot papers: none; number of votes recorded: 173; number of votes constituting the majority required to be  elected: 87; names of and number of votes obtained by each of the Member State candidate in decreasing order  of the number of votes: Russian Federation: 160; Poland: 158; Georgia: 158; Romania: 157; Belarus: 154.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Demers. I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest  number of votes and obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Russian  Federation, Poland, Georgia, Romania and Belarus. We now turn to Group III. Mr Demers, you have the floor.
6. Mr DEMERS (Canada), Returning Officer:  Thank you. For Group III there were four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at  the present session: 178; number of Member States that did not vote: 2; abstentions: 2; invalid ballot papers:  none; number of votes recorded: 176; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 89; and  the number of votes obtained by each Member State candidate in decreasing order of number of votes: Peru: 153;  Dominican Republic; 148; Chile: 131; Mexico: 24; Paraguay: 112.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest number of votes and  obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Peru, Dominican Republic, Chile and  Mexico. We now turn to Group IV. Mr Demers, you have the floor.
8. M. DEMERS (Canada), Président du bureau de vote :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Pour le Groupe IV, il y avait 8 sièges à pourvoir. Nombre d'Etats  membres ayant le droit de vote à la présente session : 178 ; nombre d'Etats membres n'ayant pas participé au  vote : 2 ; abstentions : zéro ; bulletins nuls : zéro ; nombre de suffrages exprimés : 176 ; nombre de voix  constituant la majorité requise pour être élu : 89 ; nombre de voix obtenues par chacun des Etats membres  candidats dans l'ordre décroissant du nombre de suffrages exprimés : Malaisie : 163 ; Australie : 143 ;  République islamique d'Iran : 142 ; République de Corée : 141 ; Japon : 127 ; Philippines : 127 ; Pakistan : 119 ;  Bangladesh : 118 ; Bhoutan : 108 ; République démocratique populaire lao : 97.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest number of votes and  obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Malaysia, Australia, Islamic Republic  of Iran, Republic of Korea, Japan, Philippines, Pakistan and Bangladesh. We now turn to Group V(a).  Mr Demers, you have the floor.
10. Mr DEMERS (Canada), Returning Officer:  Thank you. For Group V(a) there were six seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote  at the present session: 178; number of Member States that did not vote: 2; abstentions: none; invalid ballot  papers: 2; number of votes recorded: 174; number of votes constituting the majority required to be elected: 88;  number of votes obtained by each Member State candidate, in decreasing order of number of votes: Benin: 132:  Nigeria: 125; Ethiopia: 120; Madagascar: 111; Malawi: 103; Chad: 82; Swaziland: 80; Kenya: 75; Rwanda: 65;  Congo: 47; Equatorial Guinea: 43.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest number of votes and  obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Benin, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Madagascar,  Malawi and Chad. Now we turn to Group V(b). Mr Demers, you have the floor.
12. Mr DEMERS (Canada), Returning Officer:  Thank you, Madam President. For Group V(b), there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member  States entitled to vote at the present session: 178; number of Member States that did not vote: 2; abstentions:  none; invalid ballot papers: 1; number of votes recorded: 175; number of votes constituting the majority required  to be elected: 88; number of votes obtained by each Member State candidate, in decreasing order of number of  votes: Morocco: 123; Kuwait: 118; Tunisia: 90; Oman: 88; Algeria: 71; Syrian Arab Republic: 62; Jordan: 38;  Iraq: 32; Mauritania: 30; Qatar: 19.
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  I therefore declare the following Member States, having received the greatest number of votes and  obtained the required majority, elected Members of the Executive Board: Morocco, Kuwait, Tunisia and Oman.
13.2 Permit me now to offer sincerest congratulations to the Member States that have just been elected and,  on behalf of the General Conference, to thank Ambassador Demers (Canada) who supervised the ballot and the  six tellers, Ms Natalia Martin-Leyes Barvo (Colombia), Mr Gerhard Alois Maynhardt (Austria), Ms Violeta  Brauskiene (Lithuania), Mr Paula Bloomfield (Tonga), Mr Pierre Aka (Côte d’Ivoire) and Ms Carla Jazzar  (Lebanon) for the time and effort they devoted to counting the ballot papers.  (Applause)
13.3 May I please have your attention. We now turn to a matter concerning electoral Groups IT and IV. You  may recall that Article V, paragraph 4(a), of the Constitution which deals with elections to the Executive Board,
17   was amended by the General Conference at its 29th session. That article stipulates that “members of the  Executive Board shall serve from the close of the General Conference which elected them until the close of the  second ordinary session of the General Conference following that election, except for the election that takes place  during the 30th session of the General Conference, where one of the elected Member States from electoral  Group II and two of the elected Member States from electoral Group IV, whose names shall be drawn by the  President of the General Conference by lot, shall serve until the close of the 31st session of the Conference”, that  is to say, for two years only.
13.4 For your information, this amendment will be expunged at the close of this session of the General  Conference. Today, however, I have to draw names from the two electoral groups. I hope it is understood that  this is a matter of taking turns, that we shall have to draw lots. I would like to ask Ms Natalia Martin-Leyes Barvo  of Colombia to draw the names. Would she please come forward.  (Ms Martin-Leyes Barvo comes to the rostrum)
13.5 Thank you, Madam. We shall start with Group IT. From Group IT it is Belarus that has been drawn to  serve on the Executive Board for two years only.
13.6 Now, Group IV. The two names drawn from Group IV to serve for two years only are Japan and  Australia. Thank you for your help, Madam.
13.7 Distinguished delegates, dear friends, may I again have your attention for a very short time. Again, I  should like to congratulate everyone and inform the newly elected Members of the Executive Board that they are  invited to attend an information meeting, on Thursday, 11 November at 3 p.m. and that the Executive Board will  meet after the closure of the General Conference on 18 November in order to elect its Chairperson and Bureau.  Dear friends, thank you for your attendance, we have completed all the items on our agenda for today, and shall  meet again in plenary tomorrow afternoon. Thank you.  La séance est levée a 18 heures  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  Se levanta la sesion a las 18.00