Vingt-sixième séance plénière
17 novembre 1999 à 10 h.05  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twenty-sixth plenary meeting
17 November 1999 at 10.05 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Vigésima sexta sesiôn plenaria
733   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION II : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION II: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION II: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  HOKJIA/| KOMHCCHH IT: PE3OJIOIHH 1 PEKOMEH/[AI[HH  lo gilly 0/1 EI SI dod) yy yi  BIR RMSE: KDE
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank those present for their punctuality. However, as we do not have a quorum, I shall have to adjourn  the meeting for five minutes.  (The meeting is adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 I declare open the twenty-sixth plenary meeting of the General Conference. We begin our work this  morning with the examination of the report of Commission II. The documents we have to consider are 30 C/62  and 30 C/62 Addendum and Corrigendum. I now give the floor to Mr Molnar, Chairperson of Commission II,  who will present the report of this Commission.
2.1 Mr MOLNAR (Slovakia), Chairperson of Commission II:  Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor to present the report of the work of our  Commission. Madam President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure -  as Chairperson of our Commission - to report to you on the substance of our work relative to UNESCO?s priority  programme, Education and its future for sustainable development with a view to constructing a tomorrow built on  liberty, dignity, peace and respect for all people.
2.2 The oral report I present here is a shortened version of the oral report presented to Commission II. The  section of my report devoted to the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace” presented in plenary  on Saturday morning and an account of Commission II's debate on UNESCO in the twenty-first century is  annexed to our draft report 30 C/62 and 30 C/62 Add. and Corr. I will therefore not present them now. My full  report 1s also available in English and French in document 30 C/INF.52. This session is particularly significant,  held as it is on the threshold of the third millennium. In this session it has been our great privilege to discuss the  issues relating to the transition to a third millennium - awaited with apprehension and hope - and the increasing  challenges posed by the multiple issues addressed by our Organization, at the crossroads of several paths. Before  presenting this report, allow me to say that it has been a great pleasure to chair this Commission and I thank you  wholeheartedly for the trust you have placed in me. As you will remember, our Commission was required by its  terms of reference to consider Major Programme I as a whole and to adopt the recommendations and resolutions  of Member States. To do this, the Commission concentrated on the three main elements that followed the same  lines as the three discussion units, namely, Education for all throughout life; Towards a culture of peace; and  UNESCO in the twenty-first century.
2.3 This formal framework for debate by our Commission was supplemented by informal discussions on  specific themes, in workshops, round tables and youth forums, bringing together members of National  Commissions, NGOs, experts, civil society representatives and the like. It is, of course, not my intention to report  on all of these fruitful activities and debates, even though they are at the core of the Commission’s concerns and  provide the seeds of the alternatives and solutions that are being sought. What has emerged is a critical  assessment, drawn up without indulgence, of the work which remains to be carried out or completed in many  countries in order to provide education for all throughout life. Fortunately, this rigorous appraisal of the present  situation also evokes a realistic picture of the progress which needs to be made in order to implement the  objectives of Major Programme I.
24 Ladies and gentlemen, our Commission has above all been a sounding board for our full commitment to  peace, solidarity and international understanding. It has placed on record our unanimous and unshakeable  conviction as to the inestimable and decisive contribution that education must and can make to the fulfilment of  all our Organization’s missions. From our work, there emerges a portrait of what UNESCO should be in the  twenty-first century - this has been painted with passion, conviction and with powerful arguments and  illustrations.
2.5 Ladies and gentlemen, it is now widely acknowledged that education is the driving force and the most  appropriate tool for achieving sustainable development and providing a solid basis for a culture of peace rooted  not only in universal democratic values but also in local specificities. If there is one point that has been
734   vigorously asserted throughout our discussions, it is that education is an individual's basic right, whatever his or  her situation may be. It is primarily education which confers on individuals the autonomy, responsibility,  understanding and compassion required for the observance and the effective, considered and responsible exercise  of human rights, and for ultimate mastery over the major challenges of the twenty-first century. The education we  desire is neither abstract nor brutally pragmatic. The many treasures contained therein were revealed by the  International Commission on Education for the Twenty-first Century. Reference was often made to that  Commission’s report in order to convey the scope and to emphasize one of the pillars of education, learning to  live together, as the ultimate aim of any educational policy. The education to which we refer aims to make all  individuals and all communities autonomous and accountable. It takes differences into consideration and strives  to prevent and combat indifference and discrimination. It embraces all life from the cradle to the grave, takes root  in the heart of societies, and serves as the basis for all learning. It is omnipresent, emanating from and addressed  to each and every individual. It respects all diversities and incorporates local cultures and knowledge; it feeds  upon the sciences, but is steeped in wisdom; it fosters creativity, the spirit of enterprise and solidarity; it meets  the needs arising from the immediate environment and also from the nation’s aspirations; it forges a critical  citizenship and prepares people to live with others, to develop together and to think ahead.
2.6 In regard to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-2001 and its implementation, the comments  made on the organization of this Conference were mostly favourable. We appreciated the thematic structure of  the debates and I think some very useful lessons have been learned. We have every reason to welcome this new  approach which spared us the dreary succession of monologues that had been the subject of past complaints. You  were unanimous in your support for the Education Sector, which is considered as having high priority, and in  your appreciation of the strategies and principal aspects of the programme presented by the Deputy Director-  General for Education, Mr Colin Power, to whom you paid a great tribute on the occasion of his impending  retirement. Mr Power stressed the diversity of the activities involved, which are grouped together under two  programmes and a number of subprogrammes, some of which take the form of intersectoral or transdisciplinary  activities, in addition to the functions entrusted to the six specialized institutes. The Sector has opted for ongoing  reflection as a programming procedure in support of a gradual decentralization organized around priorities  established in relation to the fight against poverty and marginalization. Another general characteristic is the  structuring of activities around regional and subregional strategies characterized by priorities such as capacity-  building in Africa, support for policy-making in the Arab countries, the creation of centres of excellence in Asia,  Focus on the Caribbean, and the promotion and use of diversity in Latin America. The UNESCO centres are  gradually emerging as key elements of this strategy. This is the case for the Baoding Centre for Rural Education  in China, the Centre for Special Education in India, and the Guidance, Counselling and Youth Development  Centre in Malawi, and will also be the case for the proposed centre for the education of girls in Burkina Faso.
2.7 Decentralization as such meets with our undeniable support. The measures advocated, in particular the  regional approaches, meet with general assent, despite some differences of view. However, many of us warned  against mere relocation without an overall vision or adequate resources. In response to all the dysfunctions that  were noted or regretted, some Member States called for the activities of the Education Sector to be recentred  around strategic planning and deplored the losses of resources, which have consequently reduced the results of  long-standing activities. Some delegates saw this as a mere misallocation of resources, while others, more  worried, saw it as an attempt to divert the Education Sector away from its mission, at a time when it has to face  stiff competition.
2.8 It was also observed that the resources of the Education Sector are on a downward trend, whereas the  Sector is, should and must be UNESCO?s priority. As Canada pointed out with regret, the budget of the Sector  has fallen from 40% to 20% during the past decade. Conversely, there has been an increase in extrabudgetary  resources; although welcoming such a situation, some of us warned against the risk of undue influence which they  create and the temptation to use them to disguise bilateral programmes by giving them a multilateral label and  thus another form of legitimacy.
2.9 Now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to basic education for all throughout life. We all wanted UNESCO  to continue to make basic education for all an absolute priority. Basic education must be holistic, inclusive,  preventive and open so as to ensure both material prosperity and human enrichment. It should cover all the target  groups. It should above all begin to take shape in early childhood, in the family circle. Although access to basic  education is far from being assured in several developing countries, quality is required of all countries. While the  aim is to reach all citizens down to village level and provide curricula appropriate to local needs, it was  nonetheless pointed out, in particular by Argentina, Cyprus, Cuba and France, that excellence should be  democratic for all target groups. The fight against poverty through education is the central pivot around which the  other main themes should be positioned. Many of us wanted primary education to work towards this goal in its  programmes and curricula, and wanted its strategies to correct all forms of discrimination, especially those based  on gender.
2.10 There was a very strong demand for literacy education, which is nowadays a challenge for all societies,  especially with the appearance of new forms of illiteracy in industrialized societies. This was mentioned by  Austria, Costa Rica and Gambia. The establishment of literate societies underpinned by dynamic educated  environments is a new task which requires a shift in emphasis with respect to goals, greater mobilization and new  investment. Setting up open-learning communities and strengthening the multidisciplinary, flexible integrated  systems devised by the “Learning Without Frontiers” programme are part of this process. We also emphasized  with much interest the urgent quest for new alternatives for meeting the educational demands of underprivileged  groups, particularly victims of AIDS. Other health-related problems, the fight against drugs and the demand for  new types of preventive education also constitute pressing needs.
2.11 The implementation of the Jomtien objectives is still a matter of topical relevance and several speakers  welcomed the evaluation at the end of the current decade and ardently hoped it would generate new approaches  and alternative strategies involving communities and NGOs. Some donor countries suggested that UNESCO  should use the findings of the International Education for All Forum, scheduled to be held in Dakar in April
2000, as a basis for readjusting all its basic education programmes. Others thought a critical analysis of the  findings was needed to correct the lacunae of the first decade now ending, and above all to focus on the  educational needs of the poorest people. NGOs reported on their contribution to this process in the framework of  their Collective Consultation with UNESCO.
2.12 In secondary and higher education, despite the clear structure of the Education Sector programme,  welcomed by many countries, the problem of content remains. This was stressed in particular with respect to  secondary, technical and vocational education and higher education. Many delegates expressed a wish to see  secondary education given a clear identity of its own, with a variety of vocational programmes and a significant  development of scientific and technical education. In this connection, a follow-up mechanism to the Seoul  Conference was forcefully and urgently requested. The achievements of the UNEVOC programme and the  network it has generated were greatly appreciated. We also enthusiastically welcomed the establishment of the  Bonn Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training (BCTVET).
2.13 The setting up of the International Follow-Up Committee to the World Conference on Higher Education  was favourably received by many delegates who welcomed the establishment of focal points but wanted the work  of the Committee to be speeded up so as to give a clear focus to the recommendations made by the Conference  and ensure that “action-oriented documents” were rapidly made available. As for the UNESCO Chairs, the  general opinion was that they had proved their value, but the debate brought out the need to clarify their tasks and  identity, and to endow them with sufficient resources to enable their activities to be genuinely different from  classic academic chairs. Interest in the Chairs was confirmed and some countries, such as Mali and Botswana,  expressed the wish to host UNESCO Chairs for the culture of peace and distance education.
2.14 The question of new technologies and education remains one of the central points raised by a majority of  speakers. The time for being disturbed or worried about the new technologies is over; the task is now to make the  best use of them and to facilitate access to them by the least privileged countries and population groups. These  new information technologies were recognized as having become a decisive instrument in educational methods,  and it is therefore necessary to train teachers to be fully proficient in them. The emergence of an information  society requires teachers to take account of these new tools for disseminating knowledge and skills and to  integrate them into their structures and curricula. The UNESCO project concerning teachers in the information  society, which should result in a redefinition of the mission and status of teachers, was frequently and strongly  supported.
2.15 Despite the scepticism aroused among some speakers, distance education is now considered an essential  strategy for attaining the universal objective of education for all. In all cases, the sharing of knowledge and skills  must be accompanied by education in citizenship, creativity and the media, in order to avoid the appearance or  recurrence of negative reactions or forms of behaviour, such as racism or cultural contempt, that exclude others.
2.16 Many speakers described their efforts to renew, reform, reconstruct or re-establish their education  systems in order to face the challenges of peace and democracy, the pressures of globalization, the incursion of  new technologies (Argentina, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Thailand, Tunisia) and the urgent  demands of the transition period (Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia and Mongolia, among others). Some countries,  including Gabon, Guinea, Nigeria and Papua New Guinea, asked for support to make in-depth changes in their  education systems, while others pointed out the need to move away from the sectoral approach and technical  planning and adopt strategic planning (Gambia, Swaziland) and the joint programme approach (Burkina Faso,  Madagascar). A third group of countries, including Mali and Senegal, have established a 10-year programme and  explored a number of educational alternatives which they wished to share.
2.17 I now come to the UNESCO institutes. The debates on decentralization and the coordination it entails  were held at the special meeting devoted to the UNESCO education institutes. In their statements, the delegates  drew a distinction between the new institutes established within the Education Sector and the three existing  UNESCO institutes, namely the International Bureau of Education (IBE), the UNESCO Institute for Education  (UIE) and the International Institute for Educational Planning (ITEP). They stressed the great experience acquired  by IBE, UIE and HEP over the years, which had helped to promote their “capacity to learn” and had enabled  them to become true models today. They hoped, on the strength of the programme of activities submitted, that the  UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education (IITE) would follow suit. Several delegates  expressed their support for the transformation of the International Bureau of Education into an international  centre for the content of education and referred to its four new functions in that context - to act as an observatory  of educational structures, contents and methods; to promote dialogue on educational policy; to strengthen  capacities for the adaptation of content; and to exchange and disseminate information. They welcomed the  preparation of the next International Conference on Education, to be held in 2001 on “Educational content and  learning strategies for living together in the twenty-first century: problems and solutions”.
2.18 Several delegates commended the activities of the International Institute for Educational Planning,  whose annual training programme enabled many of their key personnel to receive adequate training, thus  contributing to a lasting improvement in the planning of their respective education systems. They thanked the  Institute for the invaluable educational assistance provided for the reform of their education systems and called  for the development of its programmes in this field in order to serve a larger number of Member States,  especially in Africa. They stressed its vital role in transmitting experience and best practices and they referred to  the Institute’s “watch” function. Lastly, the delegates thanked Mr Hallak for the enormous amount of work he  had carried out in the course of his duties at IBE and IIEP, which would remain a source of inspiration for the  future.
2.19 Delegates from all regions also stressed the growing impact of the Fifth International Conference on  Adult Education in the various countries and the role of the UNESCO Institute for Education in providing  support to Member States for the follow-up to this Conference. The Institute had taken over the task of  disseminating the conclusions of the Conference, supplying information, monitoring ongoing activities and  supporting innovation and new adult education policies. The delegates laid particular emphasis on the  preparatory work carried out for the launching of United Nations Adult Learners’ Week on 8 September 2000 to  back up International Literacy Day, on UIE’s professional support for the renewal of educational approaches as  part of the International Decade for the World’s Indigenous People and on the observatory function performed by  the Hamburg Institute to assist Member States in rethinking their education policies in the context of education  throughout life.
2.20 Despite the undeniable success of these institutes’ activities, the Commission forcefully voiced its  concern at their proliferation and the low level of their financial resources in relation to the scale of the needs and  expectations of Member States. It was even said that the reduction of the funds allocated to basic education might  be due to the proliferation of these institutes. The response to this situation called for a comprehensive view of  educational activity and the establishment of stringent criteria for the establishment of any new institute. For  example, it was stressed that these institutes could be very useful in following up and applying the  recommendations made by world conferences. The institutes would thus act as effective tools for the execution of  Major Programme I. And in the long run they would restore to the Organization as a whole the guarantee of  quality and professionalism that everyone wanted.
2.21 Despite this harmony of views on better managed decentralization, some countries and regions wished to  have their own international institutes with a regional focus. The usefulness of such institutes was illustrated by  the International Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa, based in Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), the relevance of  which was reaffirmed many times. Similarly, speakers from Latin America and the Caribbean demanded that  treatment equivalent to that accorded to existing institutes be given to the International Institute for Higher  Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, which, while catering to their primary concerns, prided itself on  having an international scope. This idea was the subject of conflicting interpretations within the Commission.
2.22 Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of draft resolutions by our Commission was preceded by a series  of direct meetings between the Bureau of the Commission and delegations which had submitted any draft  resolution that had financial implications. In the absence of a reserve for draft resolutions, and rather than simply  informing authors that their draft resolutions were being refused, the Bureau preferred to get together with them  to find a suitable imaginative response. The same approach was adopted when the resolution concerning  educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories was examined.
2.23 Overall, the exchanges of views were marked by a genuine understanding which enabled practical,  satisfactory, consensual solutions to be arrived at. As was expected, the consideration of these resolutions in  plenary brought to the fore the Member States’ main causes of concern. Thus one group of requests related to the  need for increased support for new basic education projects to meet the learning needs of other target groups,  such as orphans and children in care, indigenous populations, marginalized young people, refugees, the disabled  and so on. A second group concerned the follow-up to the Seoul Conference on technical and vocational  education and to the Hamburg Conference on adult education. A third group dealt with the culture of peace,  particularly multilingual education and promotion of the mother tongue, but also environmental education.  Lastly, a strong demand was expressed in appeals for the strengthening of regional programmes.
2.24 The Commission examined the agenda item concerning education and cultural institutions in the  occupied Arab territories and adopted by consensus the relevant resolution drafted by the Executive Board. The  representative of the Syrian Arab Republic made reference in her statement to Israeli practices and policies in  violation of the educational and cultural rights of the population of the Golan. She concluded her statement by  voicing the hope that a just and comprehensive peace would be established in the region. The representative of  Israel situated the problem of the schools of the Golan in the context of the process of peace and political  development. He also reviewed some of the efforts made by his country in a bid to bring about harmony with the  Palestinians through multicultural education and the adoption of facilitatory measures such as movement between  the West Bank and Gaza for students.
2.25 Given the reduction in the budgetary resources of the Education Sector, many delegates stressed the  need to refocus programmes by way of greater coherence and less fragmented actions (Canada, France, Finland,  Switzerland). However, they insisted that this should not result in reducing UNESCO’s support for Member  States, but should be expressed by seeking new partners on the basis of clear choices and options. With respect to  such choices, several delegates reaffirmed their wish for UNESCO to allocate its education resources as a matter  of priority to the Member States who are in the greatest need of them, so that the activities undertaken make a  significant difference. It should be made possible for the new institutional or private sector partners proliferating  on the educational scene to become involved with education projects, the terms and contents of which should be  discussed in advance with national actors and specialists and with community and voluntary sector partners in  Member States.
2.26 The need for improved coordination between the various United Nations agencies working in education  was also stressed. Some delegations welcomed the primordial role played by UNESCO in the new inter-agency  strategy that is giving rise to education programmes in which the whole United Nations system is involved under  the responsibility of the countries concerned.
2.27 The transition from technical planning to strategic planning, interacting with the major objective of  combating poverty, should eventually enable UNESCO to regain its world leadership in education. Faced with  the new educational actors, some of which, like the Internet or CD-ROMs, are anonymous, only a universally  unchallenged authority in the field of education will guarantee the survival of our Organization. This presupposes  that, in return, UNESCO submits itself to a new culture of rigorous, ongoing evaluation of its activities and  methods of action. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Molnar. I wish to congratulate you and your team on the work you have done and also  on your oral report. I know that it certainly was not an easy matter to prepare the report. I should now like to  remind the distinguished delegates that the report in the document that is before us is to be considered in its  entirety. If there is to be a discussion, I urge you to confine your comments to the official printed report  contained in document 30 C/62 and Add. and Corr. The delegate of Saint Lucia has the floor.
4, Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):  Thank you, Madam President. Since I had the honour of chairing the Joint Meeting of the commissions  yesterday, I have to report to you that there was a discussion and a decision to harmonize the decisions taken by  the different commissions. À case in point concerned the resolutions on the culture of peace, on page 30 of the  English version of document 30 C/62. The texts on pages 30 and 31 have undergone some amendments. I know  that yesterday paragraph 1 on page 30 as amended by El Salvador was adopted in plenary and, as to  subparagraph (i1) on page 31, it was decided that it should be deleted and replaced by the paragraph adopted in  Commission III and ratified by the plenary here, when the report of Commission III was adopted. And, on  page 32, the whole of paragraphs (a) and (b) were also amended and endorsed by the plenary, as amended by  Commission IV. I am just reporting to you how the paragraphs in these resolutions were harmonized among the  different commissions. I think the Secretariat is aware of this, and we sent you a letter yesterday on behalf of the  Joint Meeting to let you know about all these changes. Thank you, Madam President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank you, Madam. I am aware of this. The results of the Joint Meeting will be dealt with in their  entirety later, but of course we should now consider those decisions or recommendations that you accepted which  concern this report, and we shall then ask Mr Molnar if that is acceptable. I presume they will be mostly  technicalities. I trust that is a sufficient reply? The delegate of Uruguay now has the floor.
(6.1) M. GUERRA CARABALLO (Uruguay) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je souhaite préciser que dans l'ensemble, nous approuvons le rapport dont  nous sommes saisis mais je voudrais aussi faire consigner notre désaccord sur la façon dont a été présentée, au sein  de la Commission II, l'information sur les instituts ; je pense plus particulièrement à l'IESALC (Institut  international de l'UNESCO pour l'enseignement supérieur en Amérique latine et dans les Caraïbes). Comme nous  l'avons dit devant la Commission et comme nous le rappelons aujourd'hui en séance plénière, nous avons ressenti  une certaine forme de discrimination dans la mesure où, alors que les responsables d'autres instituts ont présenté  leur rapport, les autorités de l'IESALC, malgré ce qui était annoncé dans le calendrier des travaux de la  Commission II, n'ont pas eu l'occasion de présenter le leur à tous les membres de la Commission. Ce point a été  purement et simplement supprimé.
(6.2) Par ailleurs, Madame la Présidente, il nous semble qu'une telle attitude est en contradiction avec le  point 4.7, qui évoque l'importance de l'enseignement supérieur pour le XXIe siècle, étant donné que l'IESALC est  le seul institut de l'UNESCO qui s'occupe d'enseignement supérieur. Nous revendiquons donc la présence de cet  institut qui est le seul à se consacrer à un objectif aussi louable et que la Conférence générale elle-même juge  indispensable de soutenir. Enfin, nous nous félicitons de voir finalement figurer dans ce rapport le montant de
2.300.000 dollars préalablement approuvé, qui permettra à l'IESALC de s'acquitter d'une tâche très importante pour  la région de l'Amérique latine et des Caraïbes.
(6.3) Quand on parle de fracture entre deux mondes, il faut avoir à l'esprit que bien souvent, cette fracture  provient des fondements mêmes de l'éducation. Aussi importe-t-il d'appuyer les instituts qui s'efforcent d'élever le  niveau de l'enseignement supérieur dans les régions défavorisées. Merci.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you for your remarks and observations, which will certainly be placed on record. The delegate of  Argentina is asking for the floor.
(8) M. ARAMBARRI (Argentine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. Notre délégation avait exprimé devant la Commission II le  même point de vue que ce celui que vient de défendre la délégation de l'Uruguay ; c'est pourquoi nous souhaitons  appuyer en tout point ce qui vient d'être dit par le représentant de cette délégation. Je vous remercie, Madame la  Présidente.
9. The PRESIDENT:  We do indeed take it into account and understand the issue. Does Mr Molnar wish to make any  comment? No. The representative of the United Republic of Tanzania now has the floor.
10. Mr SHEY A (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Madam President. I have a contribution to make in connection with the printed report, on  page 34 of the English version of document 30 C/62, fourth bullet, with respect to 30 C/DR.1. Madam President,  in this draft resolution recognition has been given to aspects of the culture of maintenance, and a  recommendation has been made to include activities related to the culture of maintenance within Major  Programme II. I would like to add, at the end of that paragraph, after the words “document 30 C/5”, the following  text: “it being understood that seed money will be identified within the regular budget during the preparation of  the work plans, and that additional funding will have to be found from other sources, such as extrabudgetary,  including funding from Member States or the Participation Programme”. Thank you, Madam President.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I would appreciate it if I could have your proposal in writing, so that I can repeat it later. I assume  someone will support it. The representative of Colombia has asked for the floor.
(12) M. GALAN SARMIENTO (Colombie) (traduit de l'espagnol) :  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Je souhaite simplement exprimer mon soutien à ce qui vient  d'être dit par les délégations de l'Uruguay et de l'Argentine à propos de l'IESALC. Merci beaucoup.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of Kenya.
14. Mr IRINA (Kenya):  Madam President, I want to support the amendment that has been made by the United Republic of  Tanzania. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Can I have the reaction of the Assistant Director-General for Education?
16. Mr POWER, Assistant Director-General for Education:  This poses no problem for us. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Mr Molnar, is this acceptable to you, too? It appears to be. Can we then agree on this amendment, which  I think is of importance to quite a few countries? I see no objections, and I therefore take it that the amendment is  accepted. Thank you. I now give the floor to the observer for Palestine.  : (Cbuals Gôl 0) gay sudl A  ol 3 LS cdsla5 IL din 555 ¢ gel NS dea JL 3a sibs ¢ dus | $a  Lp LL Sloshae lS 13] Ta ill gay olol 1 ESL 58s (Lindl Guy sad]  Problématique 3,Le « Lp dl AI Go À dal! § «gall idl 4 CNL) 265 TICK Lux Al,  Question — |v «Problématique — lai La oY ol aie Ny Probleme Lghd) ud El sad! Of Gu ©  Awd JI Sous « 1,SS Problème ji
(18) M. YACOUB (Observateur de la Palestine) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Madame la Présidente, ma remarque concerne la traduction. Dans le rapport oral, dont j'ai écouté la  version anglaise lu par le Président de la Commission, en la comparant avec la version française que J'avais sous les  yeux, si mes connaissances dans ces deux langues sont justes, j'ai relevé à la page 9 de l'exemplaire français  l'utilisation du mot "problématique" là où le Président a parlé de "probleme". Je pense qu'il ne s'agit pas ici de  problématique”, mais de "question", de "probleme". Merci, Madame la Présidente.
19. The PRESIDENT:  You need not really go into it. Thank you for your remarks, but what we shall be commenting on and  approving is the printed report of the Commission as contained in document 30 C/62. The representative of  France has the floor.
20. M. REGNIER (France) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Nous sommes dans l'ensemble très satisfaits du rapport qui vient de nous  être présenté. Toutefois, nous voudrions revenir sur l'intervention très importante de la déléguée de Sainte-Lucie.  En effet, hier matin nous n'étions pas en mesure d'approuver autre chose que les propositions soumises à la  Commission, mais nous avions fait remarquer qu'il faudrait les harmoniser avec ce qui serait décidé dans  l'après-midi dans le cadre de la réunion conjointe des commissions de programme. Je crois qu'effectivement, il  nous faut à présent nous conformer à ce qui a été décidé lors de cette réunion conjointe ainsi que dans les autres  commissions. Par conséquent, ce paragraphe doit être supprimé. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Indeed, Sir, I hope that the Deputy Director-General for Education and the Chairperson of the  Commission have at hand the recommendation of the Joint Meeting, which will of course be taken into  consideration. It has to be harmonized, as I have already said, so once we actually approve the document, it will  be approved as amended and as harmonized, in accordance with the conclusions of the Joint Meeting. Does that  meet with your approval? Good. Now we have the representative of Qatar, to be followed by Germany.  EV) WOR Wp dl NY  SSI" dan ons3 dl Las of ssl ALPEN EE vas Bei Lod cd) a |S  St, Lu Y > Adal § copped] 5 «Sag Lay . cand dys §" SL "ot yadl yd al
424] cvs oil à 3 cela Bs Je Qik) Cao of 2,1 Lid bd le 3S5 of =) ¢ yd FEPRY) 8,  Jl pins Lois cpl (OWI Land LS Jl Sage (Abad oda 2D AL Loy Dau yilly dsl  Ll ole Bl à Jos V > 8,3 8,8 LA SN (aly Tas of (Syl oda Jy> Jsall Sins Salud IT  Gad J Frs 153 lsh By HAS oY SE CAR Il oh gr (SUI USS 13]
(22) M. AL-ANSARI (Qatar) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. A la page 39 de la version arabe, je voudrais que l'on complète le nom du  "Centre arabe pour la formation des formateurs” par les mots "dans les Etats du Golfe". En outre, à la page 3 du  corrigendum, là où il est question de "Doha (Qatar)", je souhaiterais que l'on s'en tienne à la mention du pays. Je  demande que cette correction soit apportée dans toutes les langues. Je pense, par ailleurs, qu'il vaudrait mieux, pour  entendre les avis des représentants des Etats sur ce document, commencer à examiner le document paragraphe par  paragraphe afin de ne pas s'engager dans un débat général. Sinon, il nous faudra beaucoup de temps. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I am being told that some of the things you have mentioned are dealt with in document 30 C/62 Add.  and Corr. I should like to ask the Chairperson of the Commission whether your remarks can be accommodated. I  do not think that this is an amendment, it is just a correction.
24. Mr MOLNAR (Slovakia), Chairperson of Commission II:  It is indeed a correction.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, it is to be taken as a correction and not as an amendment. It will be corrected, according to your  suggestion. The representative of Germany now has the floor.
26. Mr SCHOFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to be as helpful as possible for the formal adoption  process of this draft report, including the corrigendum and addendum. Since not everybody was present at the  Joint Meeting, I would like to suggest to you the following: that you invite the plenary to adopt the whole report  including the addendum and corrigendum, with the exception of the two proposed resolutions 05100 and 05300,  because they have already been adopted, as amended by the commissions, in the plenary, so as not to run into  divergent decisions for the plenary. Thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Can we go along with this? So, I think that we are slowly reaching a stage where very soon I shall be  able to congratulate Mr Molnar on a very extensive and good report. We heard, of course, the remarks of South  American countries and we do take note of them - I am sure that the Director-General will also be acquainted  with the whole situation. Now we are coming to the point where the plenary takes note of the report of  Commission II, as amended, and approves the draft resolutions, with the exception of the text of the two  proposed resolutions in paragraphs 05100 and 05300, which were adopted, as amended, yesterday. I do not need  to repeat what I said, as I hear no objection. It is so decided. Congratulations, Mr Molnar. I see you wish to take  the floor.
28. Mr MOLNAR (Slovakia), Chairperson of Commission II:  Madam President, I would like to express my thanks to the members of the Commission steering  committee and to the delegates who worked with us during one week, for their spirit of responsibility and  cooperation. I would also like to express our thanks to the Deputy Director-General for Education, Mr Colin  Power, and to Mr Rissom who supported the Bureau of the Commission in an exemplary manner, and to the team  members of the Commission secretariat for their hard work, their professional efficiency and their high moral  qualities, which did not go unnoticed by the members of the Commission steering committee nor, I also hope, by  the delegates. Finally, Madam President, I would like to express my personal thanks to you for your guidance of  the Conference as a whole.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir, and the best to all of you, to all your Commission members and to the staff for excellent  work. Thank you.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION V : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION V: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISION V: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  JIOKJIAJT KOMHCCHH V: PE3OJNIOL[HH H PEKOMEH/IALHH  lao gill g wll yd dase (SI doll yy iS  FBVRASKME: RIE
30. The PRESIDENT:  We now have to examine the report of Commission V, and the relevant documents are 30 C/65 and
30 C/65 Addendum and Corrigendum. I thus invite the Chairperson of Commission V to present the report of the  Commission. Mr Al-Mashat, you have the floor.  : (duo (SI Call (ud )) (Glad) BLall sud! PY)  pl oe RYE au pr eo BJ SAUT iy DEY Jal! obs «du À Fr SS  cal ¢ Fle $l Boland! lool cplall M af CSST Also GAS) del CAS Ji $F  Sr ale LABS) dla pall all Sand | J] dg ls Las ; puis] ol laa SA oo 5] ol Jb  Cugeilly Laeddl 5 WIS) ofr ES 557 GI Duell AVI pis lain l pSils asl of
00) sid els sed Lal Lal poly JWI es Clg obs 5 slay oupelal  ost gol dl (RSs days goadl 0) Shilo suis desl (ess Go) ould [yils Baud! 6 (Ld yin!  pani 132 85 Jgiol of al sie) 50 (Las S 0) ello 0238 LV ssl LS (UE 00) ST  oo el of oly | Sagar oad! (IS J le SI Jolsill ages) alll cio slash J Sa  Opel (alias 4oiSd mpd) UISy (LensliS le (Lal Bude c pelle ss ASU pola pals  LS Wiles BEY 5° pairs pis le enti] ab) Il Gea Jilly Gear hall diy ily cdl  Sageadly 330 ON sped! pl ull Saslay «ws dtdlSSs ls is spdl cpl pall iss SSI  Sell JI SAIL paisT oF DIS aly opemall 30 5 Fag SI agian agro loll pany iy 3pm 3  les plas sud! 3 pula! Jos  lS 4 eyes SI z=! Seid] JI dolall dulaJl ols! 5° rie ol c des | pote L cos) YY  aS3l ol sols Lalas Le ô lS, oil do gS ger elbills Las Jai CNE PRETT) 325040 LG sŸ
742   Stall Jan) pls UT 255 Lusso! Lalit Jlosl ogy ius coll Jalil) palislly Luhll 79 1 Jo Lay]  Las pil le cond sell 55 gpl Jad] § pl jessll Ud] WIT II gill mas Lol 1a
3 Bids gins à Opébal 4 PE 51 153 NEVINS CSL À ol is  Ls JI LUI Les oye] CDD BLESUM send duly ods oY pl ¢ dass JI ue TOY  Lead 43S 9 el yl dl! cles pio oli ERY sl lbs SES! © y sl  sas] lig CLIN 850 will IS) ml und JI poll ol) Jo¥1 ABUL La) ca )S VISE  VV 25H aaly c'Asloghe gosSal golf polly cloglasll plall ull 45 go max ob
2815 L"ILanodl fags pl prandy Syme] Janell § doses soalll sani] 52505 D Lis Laos pape”
5, ols! de cman à cLsloglally HE Vl5 Jad pladl pall 20Lu07 plall poll Jes spd!  "eal loslally JLas¥l anime 5257 cand Jl mall (in olsind ml gud J roll) Lp  psd Hay Wily Lely amg LL loglally Jal Gals § 555 V Sn ol de SU Bag  § bail call jebill Ba Ge BSI DIS wolasianadl pois Gas § plewly Dasloin VI AS Lal GLb  Jas Jw © SU aw 3 Cle Gey CSL Ce c y (SSY1 Jolss 4 > gas Len mob y  Bloglalls JLASIl liz S5 Lens AU Saga Sloe ue SIL ao) Jey Lao cloglally  § wld gn pally wlawsill noladl oll pe daw § Dodd! spell Jo usa) 05 LS  Jbl col JI dy of pl pall sels iy ply (AS LBL SNS GST £435 play mali! Abs]  à 985 gi Loar ll LMI JI BL 5 cLUilacime jobs § ILES @loslall 055 SI ASIN 59081  gs § lle 132505 jp of Gig sSindl 3 pd Oil Lin alimg 531 Boll 5 Conall (ia  pally Sal dll  CEN wlesdoll Gu (ro USE cl, ES cis el LUM coed dul He v0  pay SJ elsdllly Glad) Dold) wld pany may Less gal of of 5 ay wl lly
152813 Zoli! 132 4p amy SHI walsh plais II le (BUI fan 5 50S olasly 158530 rl OSSI  domluol Lay] Wily «und HE Pll le Adload! wus pe Ÿ casloglally JLa5l Gea] Je  gels peus old! lin AIT cla 159 dirai 51 EU sir! loa Sup 3g Jill ES j  oo 33M Jl eds ib po (75 BUS oly chad J Leila Dlaial Les ol, Il >Las Il dpal ca  Jail Jno 5 cogil oSTy 131 ologlaall jot Jyhaill Lyoal lo Lean gfamill Gly csv  Luis Ol 310 35 cold] ce Las oT Ill Gblis Cline co Lad slg (CEDU opin JI Ÿ  sla! ims ball cendBY Sata! Jo cdl] a NOM J) Te Lal cggail! go pS lone of Lud  bo spall opel LS ologlally Las) dloney LIS ST plain sO) wip of 3 pété) 08 Giro  Re sel do qe © ps) 09a DSL Sais ibs) oda sus 8sL5 p23 ue Lal oasall  oll! 13g) Laan dl Loliall of la Ÿ Graal pan of a AgolII lull lad SAMI La LS  Ob 3 JI BLEYL5 Leieals als cash I olasdl US J) BL la desl SWIG sas  UpwsS las) 4 a SI LLY Sri dl lbs M la dois Di, (basil pais  pil Ge die Jedd! pity VS JS sSsgll dal) Dbl Ge aS saa) DoleaS ass Ally sel  SI Tell Cogind Dole 55 3 si of gm (Bay laws) Lula) oblo¥l mais le  leg êll Si § all maiznally poll plbill 35 Lhe GUS mass Land Je Gupgoo Bas sad Labs]  Jos As; saad faa à Tal Ltd sey ABS play wld J) oY JS dad J F0 FN  oll Aol dhay was inl Lei moll) psd loglall maize Les HI basil] kel) Sc
5 lead) oda Lois A Sell sams ls 15353 ol obama cd of cologlally pUBYL Gla Ld VIN  Sle Lal ly (Iles eolaadl ESS Lalu Sl las JIB Jos Yeh gle! (Ba 5  SA pd of ES BN J wld pe Lug ouelall zl JS Ladd Juss Jo clsadl oda Jani!  laa of 051 Ogidl Co lous ol M ll Glaldl oe SI Lal Ladd die ou Y bs FR” wll  @ osl BY fin § Jans of daball le gan Ds ckphole Saga VI sSulsdll Valais ly lay Ÿ  plaia¥l 5e wie Ju of § Gé, 08 Dani pels pal US] Jad! (in à Le) 55 sy  olalall Al of sh SI las AIS J) plain] [3e 42s ol 451 waste ol] Li ela! Calls  Se vad lady Aslaall pull 08 wloglall Bal hing Lai by oi gs ol clogl, § chou
5 dyn) 408g (ologlall i © sad AS Lie pre) lose soy of A Le 3 plas  boll V3 § agi Of su 08 legally pli Lisboa] 3S maby sell pany Led (as
8 29 Lol (595 580 bayer and wlb shown] 5É1505 due yalls doll wlasll SJ) Jil sad  lay ccmppill Jing SLI 5 loglally JLOSIl oe ill Jo Sauda] loge xs BaSlus cals)  FI [RP J ple 0 las Jail wba J FINS (RE lax idle dao cowl yas 4  de ill Lo 5 Lai ag ce Lily ccologlally FSI lugs pasgoss bid ny Ÿ olSdl cs Lsloglall  duo gil £30 gla Lae Jel sul SH Shall 13a hog p08 use à DL pled pro  Sgr SUBYI randy Spm] Jaa! 5 doll) Seal! sax] 35" old koi Lalit J pol  ya YES 5 8sb> aay (Initiative B@bel) “bb 8,50” oginll gd! of 0955 isly dla  Hé SAV, GUI ill 3ay Gye Usb ale (Spb (SU gamall Lsal lo lax Gpagoill sais  [3 pom OF Loli lo pani 1 lo gato 3519 Sig Dl paso § 55 plan 6b cls  Las Syrie 1 LIB lal) dois Lagléo LIT pall [3e oli  Gogol ALolgs Gars OF fs Lab Lens 1 ASST) als Me apax Ge Opep0ill meal VOA  Lerdso à AI SIN ao dl Je Labill Gurspate Sas Ling Loboslall LS DSi Jb] à way I 4 Sill  curl FI lll pa Lologlel) LENEL Lola LilAIl gos 51 Late of sé uy 3503 Ge  cd SV AS bls dsr Blais Luby ial yiSilly Duala) Olaf USS LILI Lal Jb] 5  oo OF Casi! Ge Labs] wang (pSandll pan Ld) cn (Sand! Jal S56 Hb] slasly L  wh post waz pal ols] JI pl LBNL Jad 38 5 Jon Salt psi of 0159 Gold  La ght sll 8 (mo) loslaal] cagSadl Jol ab sally (pan) loghnall pall zou  L el EYRE] eb! pl of J pl OE las 451g BY [Ba slasl se SHI Jord! $28 ¢gu9a3d  iin of pelt 12 guy amg Jbl lo lon dbs 583 Dds Ll ole J Bly oly cose  a3] 505 le Jlg0Vl plais 5e Se Of 796919 GLY Ge lJagje AB DSI Je  pli US à jail] wloglally EUSSIL Gilad) wl [SIL pus plaial Sal chu Fos VON  RY) fs of Vas Llu Oda] Go 8S 0 puis] SI aa Jord! 1500 of 523 - Lely (55075  of Pa 12591 RY of OR 9050 [RY Sly 9S gd 7b» © FINI SY) fa Le FEY fas Los oY  ple BB 05 Lgiageo mpl dos 15, ¢ dd gd 4 Ludi le Led lan 53L33 Sade) 5 ,40 goed Oo OSS
3 BLY wiSy Jai 505 Je das of AS pla! AUS 5 Aa jaill Lol” 8,88 of payé Gl  Jsadl oy SI Lo gay ¢ sSudsally ign Bla duil ga U1 "SLI 88157 poli J cll Il lols  gb § Bacïall JY pple 3805 ay Of 5, oly LBB San) Yl slaly ope Jo Las 5  Hay Los | "SW ol ill mobs” Sb) © dail ERNIE Cro ls! yor] co gt LS « “ll 3,513"
08 eye] (JlasNl Lest SI! 058 Gale uy pein Ces coal oo ST lasse of aw pad  RSH Sy Jol! (Ba Bll, hla] § BI Sale] agées ply (mall! (a ols Ls sly] peal  ily dobsJl pole! Ploy lr JI Sed red pole! daw § 4458 dole Lead 252 Leal SUS  Gael! lad! § Talal ¢y93alill liye Baal ge lly 3226 say — "aga y LILI” p50 of JI  Sas 5LBly gall Go iS 3 Amoyll S131 5 (p00 cpgy ALT 53e iil 5 ssl! > Jl seb ge —  Sales 7zobll bye gst Gl agées Sly a dy dla All Sill Eayhe JI LL § Opus  Cag] wl yglie Gob 08g clin À ols pi of JT Jo uy cla Lbs 59551 opis! clsY  Sod Sols (SH LSI LAW Debit Jie) Lois dl Lgl wld! me G8 oslailly  (gad y 5, al) Ld Load «Vlas  Lad Leis] dha 3 INN eld eal dg oll IRAN Jl oY Jessy cd || Cea (AFAR  or OS ail colds 3S 5, SAS Idol lag coll dl el Ls esl dol ds lis JJ dans
249 ¢ oo last]! L105 {das © us) 55 02 34-4! Jl 093650 lil! oy | 559 tas) Jed LW  PEN Plug Clidlly JULY DE exspa Lola! was! Loge Je Jed plll § CS SA  vire SI Qh ERI Ta tA Said! JI sell Leas pod Jl sSub sll Gauges Sas Led Lesos de  ou Jai 0 Sle Fluo EJB edd 580 dls cyee ple (0 SU RAT JUL IVI 35 ©  Joli 9 pss 5 > ges pri Lali! Joly of + Pa C3 Kd Xo dsl 5m 53  Les AI pela © SU Céiaf 5151 Los Ÿ CC LSIT Glas gag 1 osgail] die gue SI FUI Jalal  cé Jl JM pal! S 294281 42055 B90 Je saddle § pasall sady dis pole! Flaws  D3vghey godin CUS pgoals gid sand! ca dl col gindl das lag cede Blog Jlrs § DL  a> ply Jaall (3e § LENT LAL Lal” agli As Je OY) Plug ais Le oslo  pel Blog Ils § iii! (ha lool spam) sSusgdl § dy il lbs no ids de eS ssl pÉs>ill  poire © lil! bl > ad 5,9, le Lae J gall YR YRS | alias KEW basis haôf 5,507  Zl DEV Blog pladinl Jo Inn oy cad JS VIe ped 05 of DY Gray  loglall  BLY aa $3 LIL Dial) dogs! pd PLEIN uy Sad! byl pas Fn LS cede] slg  oo xs old) labia Cuadies Aides Bul o liiely gel oly oll Bae 3 (gaaall 553  © Ld! geld pido Fle Les $ 55505 44555 SIN SYR] Lea ssl l Jil LAISIN oda JS D>  >bglell sc
26   plalS à pgiamill 0ST Lal Lag Lil 80 Sul dail § Dglg¥l wld 555 H lll gag v0 Y  Ge Damien OL BT Glut JI DE poe lug Clie § mesh 325 lo GEST] By505 lo  À ALI iS lie pent fle andl Sey Duan go 08 IS 0 31 Dulas Gay Je «JLo Elus  lla) § slid) 47085 SM Dual pba) joa de 0903S Gage 3ST 255 clase Ileal] ola  sls  og ymall lasinall lol Lgl ABUS lo lS) go 8S Ss ASIN pm cuss VOST
3 Tonia pls] Blog Lif Slo nil ofS) Ips Gal JB" Slansd lal Lyre § Las Ÿ  De mS sae 5G LygŸL es of ca II ABV Ge (yaad! GbULT à VIS, cg I bl  JLESYl 3ST dpm of sub saall (ie 5 Lesdle SHI pel slug Ge as Le[SN JI Vs gomepaid  Sloglall pam lo ANG GSM pandy pmsl JI 545 wy 19 BE Soanill Lyraimoll  LY Golan! Ge iSI Lai is Las cab à Lälly  SI LUI while Jf al of caf CAM Jlasl Jaz Ge JyV sal lan play LIEN US 3g #108  sSeigll pBlge Ge lob5)l SI Bell say c"Webworld" "Lay 45058” lo Lebel sSusslll Leo copes  agai! axl of pd sSuSadl fe 08 Banal Ohad) LL Los Ÿ (Bagiey Dad Tpodle] BIT ping (531s  Baxly La V lis pd loshall phim oY din sf  Lo" 0) soll OL Gail) vr sil § yy Le Jaa LIEU olay LT cds ll Sa ¥3,00  pol oly Lad JS Jb § Rabid) LIB Jb) § Weel dyn § pall "pohly dbl iaally ues  Dal dyyg yaad] 4 > pas 31 doll 235 ps dab) dozolla pole! Floss yd] dy”  ¢ fond po di os pet Flas” Ry Li réa pes > AU Lawl] gi RES
5g) BW Load JI Jord glo cbliiopdlly anil] Dopod pl all sslas GEL 65590 ON sl
0 > pel lus LY Lens LY bay dll samy gp Sb) 43 (Jl pal! © Cagis 94 Yaa  a © Val 44> Leal 55 ibs] Gib 08 egedl der Jl (LU eu) ¢dyoandy Alling  hls Lam Vy LEAL OY Blog) Old 5 Basladl puis (USUI By UE cpg ¢ bless  ele) plhiwl SMI wall Jnl Sara wd Jo ggaae gsrguie (BT (lB SI S5 loll  Blo stig plod Logs AU SSI bail) Hing 35> p De] Slug old 3235 JI Lol Jl Abts  Anylio Load Jo (3S (apse 3ST (BBall dy 05 yuan] Typo A015 Ly Lg lai Lady ¥Y,00  SM ol gid! S Sisal cas el sual SSI oslo] wld oe Bula] Ue jas  OL 1g ela pds sles) 3 sSsadl Ge y Léo whoa Go SIBII 3 Lol 58 5,838 sls] Jas assis
55 GS] His Gupgaid] sai 75819 AS Sagan pega] Suds sla] $y sas] Jos was Bl  Leg JI Gell Yl cd) IS DELAI Ly pris ¥ JI Suis! § las dpi! le bln  BTE ps! 5935 (Adlall da shall pols cplall all ba yoay sl oGLNE : DO gad] pes 55402  Oagaill sa feat pl Bly Lbl inal LB 5 Bball dy > 595 Jol uid 3 4 Olgten  y dol go oT Logie Bysly  Slall alg lus RON Ld! duc ai) dudill ge all ASS & Lagi Jad!  ly vil “> Jai de Lpnolall sSuisall pn [LS 4 elbés sl hall 58 wlogdall Ge sue yi  = sad 255 Lolo] NE Las! SH lg alll vasigaly ¢ died! pole! Blog puis el asta! of
3 Sigal) oSayy pile JLo SET ld! JI BIL pial cp p5 Sgr Teal Je carguill os  oo Low Ÿ «Ft Joludl sel} GÉlgo clac V Less luo dlolso duel! wlabill & Osby bY faa  Cog cGbUM oda § LU sill gSudgdl Bliss [le 595 255 Lace [5 gblie § cuboladl guuimall Jaf  bo 3x LB] 3 Sasladly lad elles mats § Lawl [po @BlLudl oda 5 PEN Blog gpl  Jl obs chino Lelogl agis IY olay J sail 03S ofands 42g conall (in 35 alu
313s dax pans Ala 05S of ae Di 09357 ofan ly onal lin à Less pois SI Sus  Gash andy Gustsueoll Ll gag BT Jéläs Blais Luby LL pes si pis LE UNI SY lo)  dy sll Lp Jal ce w¥oball Ldsall ISLE JI pall peal pelo)! 08 Oppel pel cales  LY wi LSy Lpdly puinaall as Cita dls] aly sls Je Ighly LA Toll IY Ses  Anil pel lug pla Le abuse 1 ZBI peal) ue ofall opel cil! LIEU LST  l955Ty pode Lolo 4905 Soins glo JIELSNL mies g a 1 doll pel lugs mall meine  Lusll loglrall Bayard! leo Jo dsl ry JI ZBMl plesal slo ginl § pgué, 0e Lay  pel ly blag  aa oS SY Lslsdln oe SU s 32 Jl oY Jas «Baldi CH RYH] Lge] ¢ dea J (5 YY NY  vus À Laid Jlesl Jyax Ge 6,9 231 ay c’oydalls Golo! oll à Sp” LE Sl ds  © pelal Ga Py Hd Oe gall Jl cals 5 diel «dame y pli pad] Basle pad Sion À Basa  las Jal RY ol 284 Gls ges) las dues Ce fs 3 Js ss pr] [a of >, 284 Nadal RY:  side 41 dealt 03a (555 1 JILAL Laëi gas Jo ALLAN Las 233011 oda «UST Lslbade gous of  i SU Ld J GLA sandy je) Glass deol! lof I Leds Leolatnl 385 of Lalaial)  Jaan of haie 91 LS ld plally Gaal Gadiul Jf prog «Leads Leblis 555 of sSssal  Se ou pS ree Log as x se ola Fu Ge an! J ling Lea doi  ae Le À orton sf 555 vs, J PSN El Flas A Ge 45 Bag Sls, «JS  end _> Le "do ol 43S Wel” © ve sal prés Led Hl duos 435, la OSI Ni wR Js pl ©  gee] IRTP)  cl FI lls Cline go paling Soupdially ola! ol § pS! Ge 0 BUS (SIN Le vA
13a § bar yo JB of sie LB Sled! BIS Ge Ld LY Suse! Dla, Jbs of Sh asi  Loa Lghog Sug! dss Ge BRS "Baill pod Logie pred” Mikes SST pons 5 oly Jv «daw!  pled! mss ds cBylall dae à Dbl andl Gas à pgs Of Lule 00 Dj Ss wl yaldf 3s  pls] gle! oo oblsll GaSe Gob sy I de sla! § JUL «Blas co ser wily ly  Os pala! iad Gas Js 4315 ad of | © OP > ols gd! Os nil] aw od dass] OSI of Pa  BU psbs Le slay BS Go Bolo 3a of Ld As slain ably olaldly wlasizally 5159  Sud | f  Bgl odd Alu! LBL JS Leis pall J21sa)l Ge pS das Sax Jools of pr idl Ge 3,14  Sl purged! axl sp SA — loglall maine JI Joogilly «cgi! gl Go ab Abell lad! Leg  seed] dy 5505) ceologlaal] Lawl = sbi c— "dd pall ad po ade lbs of WE  plain Oo hl dll Fe Dall Gl 3 Sls — clo glall — Gl dy ped! Elus 4 >  Oe IS, (doll Sl! doy dylamy (AHI Gsk>9 (Old Gai Lots Vg col BY Sei (90d
26   JR Jos 3 agli  LalgYI sls) Tax? coda! tad) badass get LBSV Co van] dlolso saad! (ia © SA ns  lla! paso § 53035 Lydd! oylsll Luis ob BIg By Bla! Sas Gays pally dälaill asd  Cmnilly pel Blogs mand! pli pes JI Tao Jl coll! 2305 Aig SLA pall go aS Das  ll de pols rp pfasdll go pS sae suds Wald ps Bag Sl uy by JI as  $ eV AS J) 13h 55055 Ja JI pol pssbl papell gle] gly UI DslsYl Ge LILI  Tol] Las a Tpdall Jnall AU 13 oye J] oll Leblas of 3 Gr 2% Hl plat UE dls  lay Joli ibs] VIS, — Lull Ghat! 5 Lans Vs — Log! pads 5 Lal uy Leal LIL  Oamill aay of Sle IS gos cJladl 132 5 plea Lele WAT J oe SI olesosll Ge sani  dl oSls lags 515 Le Lol SUN Gy (Ludi wlll! geo § sSudgdl Sis of fea 8  haz iS pla) Las legis] pas Aly cologlaal) Saud! ln all bY ila  ands ply pail sal pu as Cll] pas J] ely SSII pas Ja V7 > Ladi)  Jas JUS 5305 Led gol Lidl go JLODU Baga Gul 5 à bi of § pal, 08 09 ST  JS Js of (UWI LAY Olas Jo 5055 ede wy I oe JiSTy COM Jame cl sly ddl  ALE Salt 2d] sas] Go) cage Lil 5515 oly SLA Lola!  bill § Jel pe gens J] 05 lB sly] Je Lal ogusdll pop (Aad Sas YAY)  Of Gr Lo Sagas lal JUS 8 Sud! Jo) Lalo shar] uy 4 cassall a si, os  or JY Ge will les oblaa¥l ls gn sy 558 LBL SUS wlll ge pb  I lel pa] 5505 £155 willie ad UiSy dps JI > oll cr oda 7955 RUN AS I 3 wlawsdl
55) si SISTER ps Jody dds sl SI Ga = Od 9d! al sad Conall lia $3  Sing pal wg à lal Sid 255 SHI (OU py plelly lial ul Zatll ologlall  sb SUBI xe Sy (SSH LuagSadl Lgl labial] mo Sila) Bley pli 32545 Je of  pe DSL Jus 3585 yy sSedsdll Le las GI Abd Sl pend doll 15 bls chpoysaI  Lawl Faith S,pav Jsall (any Lala SI bE Gr ong Lt Las (Sell B  ay chy] old  eB small le dsl slay elias ul mgs L550! Gash  JN> Cusoly dose our ay 55 desl) Lal) 0 51 oi ols EL ¢ SI Fe VONN  ERY 5 SPS IANS ps Bail of of sis p>] ol Jibs m0 L sis 53 ll Les Loi  ps) UE dwell Lad) clas oe sls wll leg pio sis l (oad ls el EAR HAR]  col slasVly pend whlal gly ple mlb wld a JY Dad pall Be § 505 of §  slais] wisp] pogady pla] 13a douill culoglell TO pré a pôle UE GAS 0idl Ge ous  Se cole gall oda § Sul LABS Blots of Loges V clo SUT Lede 55 31 col 001 wiley de  as wo, 03 (5,51 has] Cama SU de HS ol 098 cisall lebih loll Jed! bh Sins!
3 V3 an BIS ess Solis Ty Jill § cela oda 1 ale of Ab M), jl  PY vr oll gpd LÉ, Aus! Dall! le dog all wll leg do xuex slash pi di  Bly Lol oder LEI payhos LOW Aba Glass LIEU SST Langone Lagos Cul  sladl JI Bag sl paral 132g "ou pdally Soll ol § Sad" shall YG poll dasl ls  ls ABIL NI agro 4ST Lindl) oda clas] 5515 Lua) SAMI § Ua CLIS UT 5 al Je  Sad 55 pull grd II alll Tl oo STE 01 JE 5,087 gill Oday of 32 9353 LEI loa]
748   EI 3 LEI DS Gomi Tall Us pis oY Jone V 0 July SE Je Lad § pLe SI
0 md of SA 51, Sat pans ä Ps a sl A oe Olas dal Cy yd QIK i ps pl  ue 8S da ay All oda © cols 5 LSU) cons! sé) ¢ Fle $1 cd || Pa YY, YY  Lol idl Blue) bid A sl Lan le 5h91 lr ce Talal | as Lad! dog col HI  el Lobo wlidadl oS cdg Baga sdl GSM JI SSLENT Log culoglall one Laity das ll  ols slay Jad! eolalks ge GE Suda Lehane el lg gill ob agds 5501 LY 3) ENTITY  ab ld Sagas wlbass plgl de ce 655 LL Dloglall ei ol 3 Le sb an 1 SASS Yess  Eso blag war À coal) wlll 5 ou el BWI of LS « SUS Fly 5H, SS  els of bade Cas VI LLL Lbs ale dus ill BY Ol Dam us 33 SsAUl, SU! el le bla  cylbÏl (20 pos ol HE Loyey cdg! Slaw 5 JLa5IL délai] SAN Leal Lucy Hal Go aye  Selly bl] 512 SIN 590)  da Jo Pla AS Lo Ses oy hol ue Dsl of > ¢ dea J 5 gt > pus $3 YY,YÉ  ne ga ee ds la le Fb © olin] © Lan 130 Seis Jus Jo Leon) Oo ys Evil  Spi AES sls 2501 56 V3, EXP Jl ale 5 4.9 Od gad! Ld ess dg © pa 5005  ¢ dus À Cd pW! po 5all dood 39d JLel ga © EI A5 cs > © Sadat lis 45800 TERY of  Solan] Gu Je 55 S51 ¢ eno] Gall 485 le Sr D go 6 Cagis) 35 eS] lag
(31.1) M. AL-MASHAT (Irak), Président de la Commission V (traduit de l'arabe) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente de me permettre de présenter le rapport de la Commission V. Au nom de  Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux, Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi, avant de présenter mon rapport, de saisir  cette occasion pour vous féliciter, Monsieur le Directeur général, de votre élection. C'est un grand honneur et un  plaisir pour moi de vous présenter le rapport de la Commission V, qui fait l'objet du document 30 C/65 et de son  addendum et corrigendum. Ont été élus vice-présidents pour la Commission V : M. Gareth Grainger (Australie),  Mme Sandra Phillips (Barbade), M. David Masek (République tchèque), M. Adolphus Arthur (Ghana) ;  Mme Corinne Matras (France) a été élue rapporteur. Je voudrais tout d'abord remercier les membres du Bureau de  la Commission, qui m'ont accordé un constant soutien et ont immensément facilité ma tâche. Permettez-moi de  mentionner en particulier la compétence du Rapporteur, Mme Corinne Matras, ainsi que l'efficacité et le sérieux du  Secrétaire de la Commission, M. Victor Montviloff, et de son équipe, les traducteurs, les interprètes et les  techniciens, qui nous ont inlassablement aidés dans nos travaux. Je remercie également les représentants du  Directeur général, M. Henrikas Iouchkiavitchious et les sous-directeurs généraux, M. Alain Modoux et  Mme Françoise Rivière ainsi que tout leur personnel, de leur généreuse contribution à cet effort. Permettez-moi  d'exprimer enfin ma reconnaissance au représentant du Conseil exécutif, M. Hisham Nachabé.
(31.2) Je voudrais, Madame la Présidente, appeler l'attention de la plénière sur le haut niveau des interventions  des délégations des Etats membres et des organisations non gouvernementales qui ont participé à nos débats. Je  tiens aussi à souligner le bon esprit et la compréhension mutuelle qui ont régné pendant les travaux de la  Commission V. Cette excellente ambiance de travail nous a permis d'achever l'examen de tous les points que la  Conférence générale nous avait confiés dans les meilleures conditions et dans les délais prévus, en dépit des  craintes soulevées au départ par la grève du personnel qui a eu lieu au début de notre première séance.
(31.3) Madame la Présidente, je vais maintenant vous faire la synthèse de la substance des trois débats. Vous y  trouverez relevés les points forts de la discussion et des remarques émises concernant certains projets de résolution  et leur traitement.
(31.4) Le premier débat de notre Commission a été consacré à l'examen du grand programme IV ainsi que des  points 4.5 "Proposition visant la création d'un nouveau programme issu de la fusion du Programme général  d'information (PGI) et du Programme intergouvernemental d'informatique (PII)" et enfin 7.6 "Projet de  recommandation sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès universel au cyberespace”. Dans son  introduction au débat, le représentant du Directeur général, M. Henrikas Iouchkiavitchious, sous-directeur général  pour la communication, l'information et l'informatique, a mis l'accent sur les aspects saillants et novateurs du grand  programme IV. Son intitulé "Vers une société de l'information pour tous” vise à refléter que pour l'UNESCO, le  développement de la communication et de l'information n'est pas une fin en soi, mais un moyen d'accroître la  participation sociale et de contribuer au progrès de toutes les sociétés. Dans cette optique, les activités ont été
26   structurées en deux programmes : d'une part, promouvoir la libre circulation de l'information ; d'autre part, combler  l'écart en matière d'information et de communication afin que tous puissent profiter des nouvelles possibilités  offertes par les technologies de la communication et de l'information. M. [ouchkiavitchious a insisté sur les efforts  engagés en vue d'assurer une meilleure transdisciplinarité et intersectorialité des activités et une plus grande  diversité des partenariats, et n'a pas manqué de relever qu'en regard du rôle stratégique de l'information et de la  communication dans l'évolution de nos sociétés et des demandes formulées à cet égard à l'UNESCO, la place  accordée à ce grand programme au sein de l'UNESCO mériterait d'être sérieusement renforcée à l'aube du XXIe  siècle.
(31.5) Madame la Présidente, le débat qui a suivi a dégagé une richesse extraordinaire des thèmes, des idées et  des propositions. Mais avant de les présenter, je souhaiterais faire quelques remarques générales qui ressortent  des interventions : les intervenants, particulièrement nombreux à s'exprimer lors de ce débat, ont démontré qu'il  existait un grand intérêt pour ce programme et ont souligné l'importance de la communication et de l'information  non seulement pour le maintien de la paix et de la démocratie, mais également pour contribuer à la lutte contre la  pauvreté et la promotion de l'intégration sociale des communautés défavorisées. Les activités de ce programme ont  été largement soutenues par les Etats membres qui ont jugé qu'elles rencontraient leurs préoccupations majeures,  même si, indéniablement, des améliorations peuvent encore être apportées. Les intervenants ont été unanimes à  insister sur l'importance de la libre circulation de l'information et des idées. Il n'en demeure malheureusement pas  moins que les disparités en matière de communication persistent, entre les différentes régions du monde, entre les  pays, comme au sein même de ces derniers. Cependant, un nombre important de délégués ont fait part d'initiatives  lancées aux niveaux régional, national, voire local, et ont ainsi montré leur souhait d'accorder une plus grande  attention aux problématiques relevant du domaine de la communication et de l'information. Plusieurs intervenants  se sont également exprimés en faveur d'un accroissement de ces activités, De nombreux délégués ont souhaité  qu'une plus haute priorité soit accordée aux activités en faveur des pays en développement. Néanmoins, certains  délégués ont remarqué qu'en regard des divers enjeux auxquels ce programme doit faire face, son budget apparaît  bien souvent trop modeste. Par ailleurs, la diversité des enjeux, la convergence des technologies de l'information et  le caractère éminemment transversal de la communication - outil d'expression, de diffusion, mais aussi support d'un  grand nombre d'activités relevant de l'UNESCO - nécessitent de favoriser davantage encore les approches  transdisciplinaires. Cela implique la poursuite par l'UNESCO d'une politique de développement de partenariats  plus renforcés. Plusieurs délégués ont souligné l'importance d'impliquer davantage le secteur privé et la société  civile dans la mise en oeuvre des projets.
(31.6) Madame la Présidente, venons-en à présent aux remarques concernant les activités proprement dites. Je  débuterai par le plan d'action de l'UNESCO pour faire face aux défis de la société de l'information. Il a bien  évidemment retenu tout particulièrement l'attention des délégués qui, dans leur ensemble, ont fortement appuyé les  propositions et initiatives de l'Organisation. Plusieurs intervenants ont souligné l'aide que l'UNESCO pouvait leur  apporter dans l'élaboration de stratégies nationales et le renforcement de leurs capacités. Plus que jamais, la  mission éthique de l'UNESCO se voit renforcée et elle se décline en une multitude d'aspects synthétisés ici en trois  grands domaines : la réduction des inégalités dans l'accès, les enjeux liés au nouvel environnement informationnel,  et la question des contenus.
(31.7) S'agissant de l'accès, les interventions n'ont pas manqué de souligner la diversité de sens que recouvre ce  mot dans ce contexte : il renvoie non seulement à la question des infrastructures, des coûts de matériels et de  communication, des capacités à utiliser ces outils mais aussi à la production de contenus pour leur diffusion sur les  réseaux tels que l'Internet. Améliorer les infrastructures apparaît comme un préalable pour une grande majorité de  pays en développement. Néanmoins, certains délégués ont souligné que cela ne relevait que marginalement de la  compétence de l'UNESCO qui doit, dans ce cadre, travailler en coopération avec d'autres institutions qui disposent,  à ce titre, de moyens plus conséquents. Un orateur a souhaité que plus d'attention soit portée aux coûts des  matériels et un autre à celui des télécommunications. Les pays en développement devraient, selon eux, pouvoir  bénéficier de conditions préférentielles. Les informations sur les logiciels libres devraient être davantage  développées. S'agissant des points d'accès, ils doivent être multipliés pour favoriser la participation de tous à la  société de l'information et lutter contre l'isolement de certaines communautés. Les télécentres communautaires  peuvent y contribuer très efficacement, mais les bibliothèques publiques et scolaires et les archives constituent  aussi des partenaires privilégiés. La diffusion des publications de l'UNESCO telles que le Rapport mondial sur la  communication et l'information doit être soutenue. La formation, y compris la formation de formateurs, reçoit une  très haute priorité dans les préoccupations des Etats membres. Contribuer à l'alphabétisation informatique des  populations, c'est non seulement leur fournir les moyens d'accéder à l'information, mais aussi leur donner  l'opportunité de pouvoir s'exprimer et de contribuer ainsi à la sauvegarde de leurs cultures. À ce titre, le projet de  recommandation soumis à la Commission V sur "La promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès universel au  cyberespace” a reçu un soutien unanime des Etats membres, et le projet intitulé "Initiative B@bel" constitue, pour  beaucoup d'entre eux, un pas dans la bonne direction. Les délégués ont très fortement insisté sur l'enjeu  considérable de la préservation et de la promotion de la diversité culturelle et linguistique sur les réseaux, qui se  situe au coeur de la mission de l'UNESCO. Un délégué a souligné que l'Organisation se devait de faire entendre sa  voix sur ce chapitre lors des négociations de l'OMC qui se dérouleront prochainement à Seattle.
(31.8) Les délégués ont une nouvelle fois unanimement soutenu les activités envisagées par l'Organisation. Les  réflexions engagées dans le cadre d'Infoéthique devront être poursuivies et plusieurs délégués ont félicité  l'Organisation pour l'observatoire mis en place sur son site Web. Un délégué a cependant suggéré d'intégrer les  travaux d'Infoéthique à ceux conduits dans le cadre de la Commission mondiale d'éthique des sciences et des
750   technologies (COMEST). S'agissant de la réglementation de l'Internet, voire de l'élaboration d'un cadre juridique  du cyberespace souhaité par quelques orateurs, une majorité de délégués a jugé prématuré une action de l'UNESCO  dans ce domaine. La "proposition visant la création d'un nouveau programme issu de la fusion du Programme  général d'information (PGI) et du Programme intergouvernemental d'informatique (PID" a pour sa part fait  l'unanimité. Les délégués ont félicité le groupe qui a travaillé à son élaboration et ont souhaité que le nouveau  programme puisse être mis en place le plus rapidement possible, et dispose des moyens financiers adéquats pour  remplir au mieux ses missions. Ce nouveau programme devrait offrir une meilleure cohérence et visibilité aux  activités et permettre une utilisation plus rationnelle des fonds.
(31.9) Madame la Présidente, un très grand intérêt a été manifesté à l'égard des propositions concernant l'accès  aux informations du domaine public, leur préservation et leur mise en valeur. Cet axe d'action, considéré comme  essentiel pour de nombreux intervenants, devrait dorénavant bénéficier d'une très haute priorité dans les  programmes de l'UNESCO. Selon plusieurs délégués, ces activités devraient permettre d'accroître la visibilité et la  crédibilité de l'UNESCO sur la scène internationale, en renforçant notamment sa mission de service public. Selon  d'autres, la notion d'information du domaine public devrait être mieux définie. Le programme Mémoire du monde,  "carte de visite” de l'UNESCO, a été de nombreuses fois cité dans les interventions, ce qui souligne l'attachement  des Etats membres à la conservation et à la mise en valeur des fonds documentaires. Les critères de sélection du  programme Mémoire du monde devraient cependant être affinés et ses procédures se rapprocher de celles utilisées  dans le cadre du Programme relatif au patrimoine mondial. S'agissant encore des archives, il a été souhaité à  maintes reprises qu'elles ne soient pas marginalisées dans les programmes à venir, tout comme d'ailleurs les  activités en faveur des bibliothèques. Un orateur a suggéré, à ce titre, que ces activités soient transférées au Secteur  de la culture. Par ailleurs, si les politiques de numérisation des documents doivent être encouragées, il n'en faut pas  moins avoir à l'esprit les évolutions rapides en ce domaine. La réflexion sur la préservation des documents  numérisés doit donc également retenir l'attention de l'UNESCO.
(31.10) L'autre axe majeur du grand programme IV est celui en faveur des médias plus "traditionnels" : presse,  radio, télévision. Le Programme international pour le développement de la communication continue, dans ce cadre,  de recevoir un très fort soutien pour ses activités. De nombreux délégués ont, à cet égard, exprimé leur  reconnaissance pour des projets mis en oeuvre dans leur pays. Plusieurs orateurs, dont le Président du Conseil du  PIDC, ont cependant fait part de leurs préoccupations concernant la faiblesse des ressources de ce programme,  certains suggérant que ses procédures soient révisées pour prendre en compte ce paramètre. L'importance d'un  service public audiovisuel fort, au côté de médias privés, a également été rappelée. Le projet "Ecrans sans  frontières” - base de données concernant les programmes pour les télévisions de service public des pays en  développement - devrait voir le jour dans les mois à venir et donc contribuer à l'enrichissement de la  programmation dans de nombreux pays. Enfin, plusieurs délégués ont fait référence au projet de conférence  mondiale sur la communication. Trop ambitieux et prématuré pour certains, d'une grande importance pour d'autres,  il devra en tout état de cause être préparé avec soin, par des consultations régionales, et en étroite coopération avec  les diverses institutions internationales concernées (OMPI, UIT, OMC entre autres).
(31.11) Madame la Présidente, venons-en à présent aux activités en faveur des groupes prioritaires qui ont  évidemment retenu toute l' attention de la Commission. Dans ce cadre, il a été fait de multiples références à la  jeunesse et les remarques des orateurs se sont concentrées sur trois préoccupations principales. Compte tenu du  rôle majeur que les jeunes sont amenés à jouer dans le processus de développement des sociétés, l'accent a été mis,  en premier lieu, sur les recherches à poursuivre sur le thème de la relation des enfants et des jeunes avec les médias,  aussi divers que soient ces derniers. Plusieurs délégués ont ainsi appelé l'UNESCO à soutenir fortement le  deuxième forum mondial des chercheurs qui se tiendra à Sydney en novembre 2000, ainsi que le troisième sommet  des médias pour les jeunes qui aura lieu à Athènes en 2001. Le centre d'échange d'informations de Goteborg en  Suède, qui se focalise plus particulièrement sur les effets de la violence dans les médias, devrait continuer de  bénéficier de l'appui de l'Organisation. Ceci nous amène à la deuxième préoccupation exprimée par les délégués : la  protection de la jeunesse, eu égard, notamment, à certains contenus violents véhiculés par les divers médias. Les  intervenants n'ont pas manqué de souligner que dans ce cadre, un effort prioritaire devait être apporté à l'éducation  des jeunes aux médias et ce, dès le plus jeune âge. Il faut leur apprendre à utiliser, à comprendre et analyser ce qui  est diffusé par les médias, voire leur inculquer des "bases morales et éthiques”. Suggestion a été faite d'une  approche commune avec le Secteur de l'éducation de l'UNESCO afin de mieux cerner les objectifs de cette  éducation aux médias. Enfin, de nombreux Etats membres ont mis l'accent sur la nécessité de favoriser l'insertion  des jeunes dans la société de l'information. Il faut ainsi leur offrir des points d'accès, les former à utiliser les  médias, à produire des contenus, tout comme favoriser la mise en réseau des ONG de jeunesse. À cet égard, le  programme Infojeunesse a été cité à plusieurs reprises par les orateurs, comme une initiative heureuse répondant à  leurs attentes. Toutes ces interventions ont mis en relief la conscience, chez les intervenants, du rôle que peut jouer  l'UNESCO dans la création d'un environnement propice au développement des jeunes, dans le cadre de la société  de l'information.
(31.12) Autre groupe prioritaire dans les activités de l'UNESCO, celui des femmes. Là encore, les interventions  ont fait ressortir la nécessité d'une plus grande implication dans les différents médias. Encore trop souvent exclues  des moyens de communication, voire des processus de décision, il importe de favoriser leur pleine participation, de  nombreux délégués relevant le rôle considérable joué par les femmes dans les processus de développement.
(31.13) Enfin, un fort accent a été mis, dans nombre d'interventions, sur les activités en faveur des communautés  défavorisées, notamment dans le groupe des pays dits "les moins avancés”. Encourager la création de médias
26   communautaires, dans les zones rurales mais aussi urbaines, est apparu comme une priorité pour de nombreux  délégués. La radio est encore souvent considérée comme le média le plus pertinent, mais les expériences de  télécentres communautaires polyvalents, qui commencent à se mettre en place et permettent aux populations d'avoir  accès et de participer à la société de l'information, soulèvent également enthousiasme et espoirs.
(31.14) En conclusion des débats sur ce premier point à l'ordre du jour de la Commission, soulignons les  félicitations accordées à l'UNESCO pour son site "Webworld", le plus visité de l'UNESCO et considéré comme un  outil d'information efficace et utile, notamment pour les pays éloignés du Siège de l'UNESCO. Un délégué a  cependant regretté que la plupart des informations ne soient disponibles que dans une seule langue.
(31.15) Madame la Présidente, je vais maintenant vous rendre compte de la teneur de nos débats sur le point 3.3  qui concerne le sous-programme IV.1.1 "Liberté d'expression, démocratie et paix", inscrit à notre ordre du jour  dans le cadre des débats organisés dans chacune des commissions sur le programme "Vers une culture de la paix".  Les interventions ont porté sur les deux composantes de ce sous-programme. L'une, "Liberté d'expression, médias  et démocratie”, regroupe les activités en faveur de la liberté d'expression et de la liberté de la presse en tant que  droits fondamentaux de l'individu et piliers de la démocratie. La seconde, "Médias pour la paix et la tolérance", se  concentre sur le rôle des médias dans la promotion de la culture de la paix et de la tolérance, plus particulièrement  dans les zones de conflits. M. Alain Modoux, sous-directeur général chargé du Programme pour la liberté  d'expression, la démocratie et la paix a présenté les trois principales lignes d'action de ce programme : en premier  lieu, il s'est fixé pour objectif l'établissement d'un cadre normatif définissant les conditions fondamentales pour  l'instauration de médias libres, indépendants et pluralistes ; en second lieu, il s'efforce de sensibiliser le public, par  des activités mettant en valeur l'importance de la liberté de la presse pour une société démocratique ; enfin, une  assistance sur le terrain aux médias indépendants, notamment dans les zones de conflits, vient compléter le  dispositif. Lors du débat, de nombreux délégués ont rendu hommage à M. Federico Mayor pour l'impulsion qu'il a  su donner aux activités pour la promotion de médias libres et indépendants et pour ses appels réitérés en faveur des  professionnels des médias en danger.
(31.16) S'agissant de la création d'un environnement favorable à la liberté d'expression et de la presse, plusieurs  délégués ont souligné l'importance du suivi et de la promotion des déclarations issues des cinq grands séminaires  organisés au cours des dernières années. Plusieurs Etats membres ont souhaité bénéficier d'un service consultatif de  l'UNESCO pour l'élaboration de législations. D'autres ont suggéré qu'une harmonisation des multiples textes  existants soit envisagée. Un délégué a proposé d'examiner la possibilité de pénalités pour les Etats membres de  l'UNESCO qui ne respecteraient pas la liberté de la presse. Les actions en faveur de la sensibilisation du public  bénéficient également de l'appui des délégués : les condamnations formulées par le Directeur général, la Journée  mondiale de la liberté de la presse, jouent aujourd'hui un rôle non négligeable dans la prise de conscience du rôle  de la liberté de la presse pour l'instauration de la démocratie et d'une culture de la paix. Un délégué a suggéré de  travailler également avec le Système des écoles associées pour sensibiliser les plus jeunes à ces questions. Un autre  a souhaité que davantage d'informations soient diffusées sur le travail accompli par les chaires pour la liberté  d'expression. L'assistance apportée aux médias indépendants et aux professionnels qui y travaillent, joue également  un rôle fondamental. De nombreux délégués ont insisté sur l'importance de la qualité de la formation des  journalistes, en regard des responsabilités qui leur incombent. L'UNESCO pourrait dans ce cadre, en collaboration  avec les organisations professionnelles, poursuivre son soutien à l'élaboration de chartes de déontologie,  notamment à l'intention des journalistes exerçant dans les zones de conflits. L'action particulièrement positive de  l'UNESCO dans ces régions a été maintes fois relevée, les médias exerçant, dans ces contextes, un rôle crucial pour  encourager les processus de réconciliation et favoriser l'instauration d'un climat de tolérance. Plusieurs orateurs,  issus de pays où règnent encore des situations difficiles, ont lancé, à ce titre, des appels à l'UNESCO pour qu'elle  leur apporte son soutien. D'autres ont souhaité que les médias indépendants soient bien et clairement identifiés  préalablement à l'apport de tout soutien. Autre préoccupation : la protection des journalistes et l'amélioration de  leurs conditions de travail. Les délégués se sont félicités du soutien apporté à l'IFEX et à son réseau d'alerte, et ont  largement condamné les violences à l'encontre des journalistes. Enfin, comme cela avait déjà été souligné lors du  précédent débat, les intervenants se sont félicités des activités en faveur des médias communautaires et de services  publics éditorialement indépendants. Ils ont également souhaité attirer l'attention de l'Organisation sur les  implications des nouvelles technologies de l'information pour le monde des médias.
(31.17) Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vais à présent aborder la dernière partie de nos débats  qui a été consacrée à un exercice de prospective sur "L'UNESCO au XXIe siècle”, point 4.1 de l'ordre du jour de  notre Commission. Mme Françoise Rivière, sous-directrice générale chargée de la programmation, a présenté le  document communiqué aux délégués pour susciter et guider leur réflexion. Elle a précisé que ce débat faisait partie  d'un processus plus large de consultation. Les remarques des Etats membres étaient donc sollicitées dans ce débat  aux fins de mieux cerner les questions sur lesquelles l'Organisation devrait, selon eux, se centrer au cours des  prochaines années. Il s'agissait notamment d'identifier les grands enjeux sur lesquels l'UNESCO devrait concentrer  son action, de tenter de dégager les objectifs et tâches prioritaires qui devraient lui être assignées. Plusieurs  délégués ont félicité le Secrétariat pour la qualité du document présenté, mais ont souligné la difficulté de cet  exercice : la rapidité des évolutions technologiques, les progrès des sciences, l'explosion démographique et les flux  migratoires rendent de plus en plus complexe une réflexion prospective. Un intervenant a donc souhaité souligner  qu'avant toute chose, il importait de ne pas avoir une vision trop déterministe, ni de plonger dans un  fondamentalisme technologique pour reprendre la formule d'un autre orateur.
(31.18) Qu'attend-on de l'UNESCO pour le XXIe siècle ? Il ressort des différentes interventions que sa mission  éthique devrait conserver toute sa pertinence : l'UNESCO devrait rester une référence en ce domaine, et représenter  davantage encore la "conscience du système des Nations Unies”. Lieu d'initiatives et de partage du savoir, elle  devra contribuer à la démocratisation des connaissances, à la distribution des fonctions et des richesses de manière  plus équitable, et donc, à l'élimination de la pauvreté. En donnant le pouvoir aux citoyens de faire entendre leurs  voix, elle devrait représenter le lieu où la diversité peut s'exprimer tout en s'attachant à gérer la compréhension  entre les individus, les communautés, les pays et les régions. Il devrait en somme lui revenir d'instaurer un climat  de confiance propice au développement d'une culture de la paix.
(31.19) Un grand nombre de préoccupations exprimées au cours des précédents débats de cette session  conserveront vraisemblablement toute leur acuité : il en est ainsi de la réduction des disparités, de l'accès à la  société de l'information - qu'il conviendrait de nommer "société de la connaissance” selon un délégué -, du  développement de l'infostructure, de la consolidation de la liberté d'expression et de celle des médias. Dans  l'environnement de la société de l'information - ou, donc, de la connaissance, - la préservation des droits des  individus, et notamment ceux des jeunes, des droits d'auteur, la protection de la vie privée, mais aussi celle de la  diversité linguistique et culturelle devront être, encore davantage, au cœur des préoccupations. Il faudra apprendre  aux individus à gérer les changements, tout comme il importera d'apprendre à gérer les flux croissants de  communication.
(31.20) Dans ce contexte, beaucoup des activités envisagées pour les deux années à venir devront se poursuivre,  et en priorité les actions d'éducation et de formation tout au long de la vie. Le développement des ressources  humaines est en effet au cœur des préoccupations d'un grand nombre d'Etats membres. Les politiques en faveur  d'un accès de tous aux moyens d'information et d'expression devraient être encore renforcées, ainsi que  l'interconnexion des réseaux, en vue de favoriser davantage encore les échanges. Un grand nombre d'orateurs ont  particulièrement insisté sur la haute priorité qui devrait être donnée au projet ambitieux visant à faire de l'UNESCO  le portail d'accès sur l'Internet au domaine public mondial. Son action en faveur de la préservation de ce bien  commun à toute l'humanité constituera sans nul doute un enjeu considérable. Il faudrait encore également favoriser  les recherches - notamment dans les pays en développement - et les réflexions. Les thématiques ne manquent déjà  pas et, à titre d'exemple, des intervenants ont suggéré que l'UNESCO réfléchisse à la préservation de l'information  numérisée, ou encore, à l'impact de la convergence des technologies. Mais aux côtés des activités liées aux  nouvelles technologies de l'information, celles en faveur des technologies plus traditionnelles ne devront pas être  écartées afin que "l'âge de l'électronique ne soit pas celui des ténèbres” pour reprendre l'expression d'un  intervenant. D'autres orateurs ont également souhaité qu'une nouvelle politique de la communication vers l'Afrique  soit envisagée avec la prise en compte et la promotion des formes indigènes de communication. Enfin à l'orée du  troisième millénaire, dans la préparation des activités du futur de l'UNESCO, il importe plus que jamais de porter  toute notre attention aux jeunes et de prendre en compte leurs besoins. Là encore, les activités traditionnelles de  l'Organisation - tel le programme Infojeunesse - devront se poursuivre. Mais un intervenant a également souhaité  lancer un appel en faveur d'une action urgente à l'intention des enfants de la rue.
(31.21) Madame la Présidente, les orateurs se sont aussi attachés à énoncer des propositions visant à améliorer le  fonctionnement propre de l'Organisation. Si un intervenant a souhaité qu'un audit de l'UNESCO soit mené à bien,  beaucoup des suggestions reprennent celles déjà émises au moment des autres débats. Et parmi les préoccupations  majeures figurent notamment les suivantes : assurer plus de transdisciplinarité dans les activités, fusionner certains  grands programmes, mais aussi élaborer des indicateurs de performance et renforcer les procédures d'évaluation. À  ce titre, un délégué a mis l'accent sur l'amélioration notable que devrait apporter le système SISTER (Système  d'information sur les stratégies, les tâches et l'évaluation des résultats) que l'UNESCO met actuellement en place.  Le renforcement des coopérations et des partenariats avec d'autres organisations intergouvernementales, mais aussi  avec les ONG devra constituer une priorité pour accroître les performances des activités lancées par l'UNESCO.  Les moyens de coopération avec les commissions nationales devront être consolidés, tout comme leur mise en  réseau. La décentralisation et la mise en place de stratégies et de solutions régionales sont revenues également  régulièrement parmi les souhaits des Etats membres.
(31.22) Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, la Commission V a adopté son rapport  (document 30 C/65 et 30 C/65 Add. et Corr.) à sa septième séance, tenue hier. Avant de conclure, je voudrais  partager avec vous les remarques formulées lors des débats sur l'adoption des projets de résolution et dont les  membres de la Commission V ont souhaité qu'elles figurent dans ce rapport. La première est de portée générale sur  les procédures d'examen et d'adoption. Un certain nombre de délégués ont exprimé leur désapprobation s'agissant  du manque de clarté des informations fournies cette année concernant la procédure d'adoption des projets de  résolution à incidence financière. Notamment, la prise en compte des activités qui y figurent dans l'élaboration des  plans de travail des secteurs concernés sans que cela entraîne le retrait d'autres activités envisagées a soulevé des  interrogations. Il a donc été demandé que cette procédure soit révisée à l'avenir afin de ne plus prêter à confusion.  Cependant, en Commission V, tous les projets de résolution ont été approuvés à l'exception des DR.30 et 31 retirés  par leurs auteurs au cours du débat. La seconde remarque a trait au projet de résolution 30 C/COM-II-III-IV-  V/DR 2, intitulé "L'UNESCO au XXIe siècle”. Ce projet qui vise l'élimination de la pauvreté a suscité de longues  discussions au sein de la Commission V. Ses membres ont souligné qu'ils ne pouvaient qu'adhérer aux objectifs de  cette résolution. Cependant, certains délégués ont fait remarquer que plusieurs activités du grand programme IV  visaient d'ores et déjà à contribuer à l'élimination de la pauvreté, et que donc cette résolution de portée générale  n'avait pas lieu d'être examinée par cette Commission. Quatre des pays ayant soumis ce projet de résolution ont  alors décidé de le retirer de l'examen au titre de cette Commission.
(31.23) Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, les débats qui se sont déroulés dans cette Commission  ont été d'une grande richesse et la participation active des délégations a montré l'importance qu'il convient  d'accorder aux questions stratégiques liées au développement de la société de l'information. Le constat des  disparités demeure, mais les commentaires positifs formulés au cours de ces dernières journées témoignent que les  orientations prises par l'UNESCO rejoignent les attentes des Etats membres, même si elles ne permettent pas  encore de les satisfaire. Cette société de l'information ne cesse de poser de nouveaux défis, éthiques, juridiques et  socioculturels et les controverses que suscite aujourd'hui dans certaines instances la préservation de la diversité  culturelle et linguistique prouvent bien que les enjeux sont considérables. Il nous appartient donc de prouver  davantage encore notre conscience de l'importance des problématiques liées à la communication dans le contexte  de la mondialisation, et de renforcer, dans ce cadre, le rôle que l'on entend confier à l'UNESCO.
(31.24) Pour terminer, Madame la Présidente, je ne peux que regretter qu'un débat sur des questions aussi  importantes de nos jours que la communication et l'information et leur impact sur nos sociétés se tienne à une date  si tardive dans le calendrier de la Conférence générale quand la plupart des délégués sont déjà rentrés chez eux.  J'en appelle aux membres du Conseil exécutif pour que ce débat ait lieu plus tôt à la prochaine session de la  Conférence générale. Madame la Présidente, j'en ai terminé avec le rapport de la Commission V. Je vous remercie  de votre attention.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Al-Mashat. I do agree with you that it is a pity that the debate on the reports  takes place when many people have left, but there are other people here and I hope they will transmit what they  hear. It is always the way - the people who are in the Commission are not present at the adoption of the report,  which is a pity for many reasons. In any event, I congratulate you and your team on the excellent work of the  Commission and on the quality of your report, and, as always, I wish to remind delegates that the report in the  document before them is submitted to them for their consideration in its entirety, but if not we shall refer to the  printed document and not to the oral presentation. I already have one delegate asking for the floor, and that is the  representative of Germany. You have the floor, Sir.
33.1 Mr SCHOFTHALER (Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. I will be very brief. First of all, Germany would like to commend  Mr Al-Mashat and his team, including the Rapporteur, Ms Corinne Matras, for the excellent quality of this report.  It is indeed a very exhaustive and comprehensive yet concise report, which also uses frank language, and this is  something I particularly appreciate, because it could lead us to a more frank exchange of opinions and to a  clearer wording of decisions, which we desperately need in this House.
33.2 I particularly appreciate the frank wording of the last part, concerning the procedure for adopting draft  resolutions without exactly knowing the budgetary consequences, and I can only support the view expressed in  the report by Mr Al-Mashat, that this should not happen again in two years’ time. We need clear indications from  the Secretariat regarding the exact budgetary and other implications of the adoption of individual resolutions, and  I think, as has been expressed on many occasions, in too many cases we adopt resolutions without knowing  exactly what will happen. We can only hope that the Director-General will be able to submit clear indications of  what will happen afterwards to the spring session of the Executive Board.
33.3 I have only one comment concerning the content, and it also concerns a traditional problem of our  House. Many statements are combined and introduced by “one speaker said”, and in this particular case it was  reported that one speaker had requested that ethical activities should be fully integrated into major programme  activities. I think that this was certainly not a view held by only one speaker, and indeed this particular speaker, I  think it was Germany, recalled a very pertinent decision adopted by the Executive Board only a few weeks ago  concerning the evaluation of the transdisciplinary project “Towards a culture of peace”. There is no room for any  extra and separate ethical and other activities which do not fall within the framework of the major programmes. It  was therefore enough that one speaker said it, because he recalled a pertinent decision of the Executive Board,  which has a real impact. There are no grounds for using the ethical or intellectual missions of our Organization as  pretexts for going beyond UNESCO’s mandate and fields of competence, as has regrettably been the case in the  past few years, on more than one occasion. Thank you very much for your attention.
34. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. We now have the representative of Senegal asking for the floor, to be followed by Ethiopia.
35.1 M. NDIAYE (Sénégal) :  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. Je serai bref. Je voulais tout simplement remercier les auteurs  de ce très beau rapport, très clair, et faire deux remarques. La première concerne le projet de résolution
30 C/DR.6 Rev. qui figure au paragraphe 9 (b) du rapport écrit. Je crois savoir que le Sénégal avait appuyé ce  DR présenté par le Canada et je souhaiterais que l'on répare ce qui est sans doute un oubli en ajoutant le nom de  mon pays à ceux de la Bélarus et de la Norvège. Ce projet de résolution, qui se réfère à la Déclaration universelle
754   des droits de l'homme, a trait, en effet, à l'éducation des enfants et à la promotion de la lecture, thèmes qui nous  sont chers, et porte sur la Charte des bibliothèques scolaires, qui retient toute notre attention.
35.2 Ma deuxième remarque, Madame la Présidente, se rapporte au paragraphe 38 du même document, où 1l  est question de la diversité culturelle et de son importance. Je crois savoir également qu'il a été dit que la  diversité culturelle - que le pluralisme culturel - constituait une priorité pour l'UNESCO du XXIe siècle, mais que  ce pluralisme, cette diversité, devaient de surcroît être sources de dialogue. Il ne s'agit pas simplement de  reconnaître la diversité, le pluralisme - il faut encore que tout cela soit l'occasion d'un dialogue ou ait en tout cas  pour effet de promouvoir le progrès humain. Je souhaiterais donc qu'il soit fait mention de la nécessité d'un tel  dialogue, lié au pluralisme et à la diversité culturelle. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
36. The PRESIDENT:  I believe that the first comment, that the country be mentioned, can be accommodated by the  Chairperson, as it is not an amendment, but the second I deem to be an amendment. I think the Chairperson is in  agreement, and there will probably be no objections to accepting this amendment. I see no objections. Sir, will  you please deem this amendment adopted. We now have the representative of Ethiopia, to be followed by the  representative of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
37.1 Mr ETEFA (Ethiopia):  Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to express deeply felt appreciation to the Chairperson  and other members of the Commission for this comprehensive, thorough and in-depth report. My comment is  really of a general nature, and concerns UNESCO’s mandate. UNESCO being an intellectual organization, not  really a technical one, its concern should be with intellectual interaction. I have observed some shortcomings in  this regard in the past. I have attended some brainstorming sessions on communication that dealt with  engineering aspects of communication which in my view are more a matter for the International  Telecommunication Union than for UNESCO. Since UNESCO is really the conscience of the world, it should  concentrate more on other aspects of communication. I recognize the importance of speed in communication, of  the Internet and so on. But sometimes we are tempted to ask: speed for what? There was a colloquium a week  ago which came up, among many other things, with some very informative statistical data. Among which was the  point made by an American university professor, who said that Internet users constitute only 2.4% of the world’s  population, and I think the question we should ask is: what about the other 97%? What is UNESCO doing about  them?
37.2 Talking about this intellectual aspect of communication, I also think that cross-cultural communication,  the cultural dialogue already mentioned by Senegal, whose views I very strongly support, is not really given the  necessary attention. Cross-cultural communication, media communication, interpersonal communication, should  be given more attention. I do not know exactly how, but an example might be through the UNESCO Chairs. To  sum up, the intellectual and not just the technical aspect of communication should be given more emphasis in the  future. Thank you, Madam President.
38. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much for your remarks. I now call the representative of the Democratic Republic of the  Congo.
39. M. KASONGO (République démocratique du Congo) :  Merci, Madame la Présidente. La délégation de la République démocratique du Congo a pu joindre hier  sa voix a toutes celles qui ont unanimement adopté le rapport de notre commission, rapport qui exige que nous  réitérions nos félicitations au Président de la Commission. Mais vous me permettrez, Madame la Présidente, de  relever que ma délégation s'est également associée à celles qui ont insisté, au cours du débat IT consacré a la  liberté d'expression, démocratie et paix, sur la nécessité, toujours à reconnaître pour l'UNESCO d'apporter un  appui à la presse des pays qui, comme le nôtre, vivent une situation de crise. Je proposerai donc, Madame la  Présidente, de modifier le paragraphe 31, à la page 11 du rapport écrit en français, de manière à tenir compte de  cette préoccupation majeure pour nous. Ce paragraphe se lirait comme suit : "Les représentants de 11 Etats  membres et de quatre organisations non gouvernementales ont pris la parole. Certains d'entre eux, dont les pays  vivent des situations de conflit, ont lancé un appel à l'UNESCO pour qu'elle leur apporte son soutien”. On  pourrait m'opposer, Madame la Présidente, que le rapport oral, dont du reste je me suis inspiré, a pris en compte  cette préoccupation, mais je ferai observer que, pour le point suivant, le rapport écrit reprend dans une large  mesure le rapport oral. Il ne serait pas superflu de faire figurer dans notre rapport écrit le cri de détresse lancé à  l'UNESCO au nom de millions d'enfants, de femmes et d'hommes, en proie chaque jour aux affres de la guerre. Je  vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
40.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sir. I think that everyone has understood the amendment presented. As I expect that it will  get some support, I will ask the Chairperson of the Commission if it is acceptable to him. I fully understand the  point that has been made. I take it we accept the amendment that has just been proposed.
40.2 Is there anyone apart from the Lao People’s Democratic Republic who wishes to take the floor before I  close the list? I call the last speaker. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic has the floor.
41.1 M. NHOUYVANISVONG (République démocratique populaire lao) :  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais m'associer aux félicitations adressées au Président  de la Commission V et à son équipe pour la qualité du rapport établi, et notamment à Madame le Rapporteur  pour la concision et la précision dont elle a fait preuve et que nous approuvons tous.
41.2 Notre délégation voudrait exprimer sa satisfaction en ce qui concerne les conclusions auxquelles le  débat IIT a permis d'aboutir, a savoir la nécessité d'actualiser le concept de société de l'information en lui  substituant celui de société du savoir. Je crois pouvoir m'exprimer ici au nom du Groupe des 77, lequel s'est  beaucoup occupé de ce domaine en préparant sa participation au sommet Sud-Sud qui doit avoir lieu à La  Havane au mois d'avril 2000.
41.3 Madame la Présidente, je tiens à souligner combien notre groupe apprécie le travail accompli par cette  commission sur le thème "l'UNESCO au XXIe siècle" et souscrit à l'exigence d'une interdisciplinarité et d'une  coopération intersectorielle. J'ai la conviction que l'UNESCO a tout intérêt à réfléchir en profondeur et de façon  pertinente aux moyens de renforcer la coopération entre les différents secteurs car on ne saurait aborder  l'infoéthique sans tenir compte de ce que l'éducation, la science et la culture peuvent lui apporter. Une approche  globale et holistique est absolument indissociable de l'interdisciplinarité et de la coopération intersectorielle.
41.4 Madame la Présidente, je renouvelle mes félicitations au Président. Je n'ai pas d'autre observation à  formuler et ne souhaite proposer aucune modification. Merci beaucoup.
42.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. Now that we have come to  the end of the list of speakers, I should like to make a proposal, which is not for this biennium but I should like it  to be considered by Member States. I would very much like to establish a UNESCO prize for the authors of a full  feature audiovisual entertainment, a film made for projection in a cinema or on television. The programmes we  see on television, a subject you have discussed many times, are getting poorer and poorer in quality and doing  less and less to enhance human dignity. During the years I have been coming to Paris, I have found fewer and  fewer high-quality French films, and more and more low-quality imports. I am sorry to say, such is life. That is  why I wanted to introduce this prize and to finance it from extrabudgetary sources. I have already been given a  tentative promise by a major and very highly reputable bank in my country in the hope that some of you delegates  may be able to find some financial backing for this, and I shall also put the idea to the Director-General. The  prize should be financed by extrabudgetary sources and be ready by the next biennium. Such a prize for a film  would encourage, enlighten, educate in an unobtrusive way, enrich, entertain and enhance the human dignity of  young and old. It will of course have to do with ethics, and in a way it echoes the remark made by the delegate of  Ethiopia. I know that people will say: “Oh, well no one will really care about a UNESCO prize”. But that is not  true. Even countries and institutions which do not value UNESCO highly enough value prizes. Everyone values  prizes, I can assure you. So this is what I would like to have ready for the next biennium. I shall welcome any  country willing to join us in our efforts and I hope to have the support of the Director-General.
42.2 Mr Chairperson, I have to thank and to congratulate you. You have deserved praise from everyone. We  have now completed our consideration of Commission V’s report. I think the plenary can now take note of it and  approve the draft resolutions therein as amended, without any difficulty. Do you agree? It is so decided.
42.3 Now, distinguished delegates, we have completed our agenda for this morning. We shall meet this  afternoon at 3 p.m. for the last time. I adjourn the meeting. Thank you.  La séance est levée a 12 h.25  The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12.25