Douziéme séance plénière
3 novembre 1999 à 10 h.25  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  puis : M. SIDOROV (Fédération de Russie)  puis : Mme MOSEROVA (République tchèque)  Twelfth plenary meeting
3 November 1999 at 10.25 a.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  later: Mr SIDOROV (Russian Federation)  later: Ms MOSEROVA (Czech Republic)  Duodécima sesion plenaria
3 Hox6p4 1999 r. B 10.25  Ipencenarens: r-xa MO3EPOBA (Yemckas PecrryOmKa)  sarem: r-H CUJIOPOB (Poccuiickas Denepaus)
19994F11 H3 H 108254)  ER: HAVE GEAR)  BJ: VE FREE CRD NRA)  BE: BEETLE CESAM)
407   ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DE LA REPUBLIQUE DES PALAOS EN TANT QUE NOUVEL ETAT MEMBRE  DE L'UNESCO  FORMAL WELCOMING OF THE REPUBLIC OF PALAU AS A NEW MEMBER STATE OF UNESCO  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A LA REPUBLICA DE PALAU COMO NUEVO ESTADO MIEMBRO DE LA  UNESCO  ODHI[HAJIBHBIF IIPHBETCTBHH HO CIVYAIO ITPUHATUA PECITYBJIMKU TTAJTIAY B KAYFCTBE  HOBOTO TOCY/[APCTBA - WJIEHA IOHECKO
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the twelfth plenary meeting of the 30th session of the General  Conference. During this session of the General Conference, we have great pleasure in welcoming among us  another new Member State, the Republic of Palau, which joined UNESCO on 20 September 1999. The  instruments of acceptance were duly submitted for consideration and have been accepted. I have the honour of  inviting His Excellency Mr Hersey Kyota, Ambassador of Palau to the United States of America, to come to the  rostrum to place his country’s flag, and then to address the plenary.  (Mr Kyota places the flag of Palau on the rostrum)  (Applause)
2.1 Mr KYOTA (Palau):  Madam President, Director-General, heads of delegation, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Aluwau  tutau, - that means “good morning”. I extend warm greetings from the President, His Excellency Kuniwo  Nakamura and the people of the Republic of Palau. Madam President, I join the other distinguished delegates  who have spoken before me in extending to you my congratulations on your election as President of the 30th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. My delegation firmly believes that with your excellent  background and extensive experience, your wisdom and your leadership - you will be able to effectively guide  the work of the session to a successful conclusion.
2.2 It is indeed a great honour and privilege for me to attend the 30th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO, on behalf of President Kuniwo Nakamura and the people of the Republic of Palau. This opportunity  brings me great personal pride, as I represented the President and my government in the signing of the  Convention with UNESCO on 20 September 1999 in London, under which my country became a fully-fledged  Member of this august body. As one of its newest Members, I take this opportunity to reaffirm to all Member  States that the Republic of Palau is committed to work cooperatively in a spirit of peace and friendship to  implement the objectives and purposes set forth in the Constitution of this Organization.
2.3 Madam President, I cannot emphasize enough the educational, scientific and cultural importance our  young Republic attaches to our membership of this Organization as we strive peacefully to preserve, promote and  share our cultural heritage and improve the standard of living for our people. As a small developing State, the  Republic of Palau stands ready to listen, observe and learn from the other distinguished Members of this  Organization in order to effectively enhance and promote the educational, scientific and cultural values that this  Organization stands for. As we take our seat in this Organization, we hope to participate actively in the  programmes and activities of UNESCO and play our role in promoting peace, harmony and understanding of  mankind through pursuing the objectives of UNESCO.
2.4 In the past, the Republic of Palau, although not yet a Member of UNESCO has benefited indirectly from  certain UNESCO activities such as regional initiatives in the South Pacific area mainly focused on the  preservation, protection and promotion of the cultural heritage. We fully recognize that UNESCO has been at the  forefront in questions of cultural preservation and protection in the Pacific. Such assistance encourages small  island States in the Pacific to enhance their cooperation and exchange views and ideas concerning the  preservation and protection of the cultural heritage of these island States. To this end, Madam President, my  government welcomes UNESCO’s continued efforts and assistance in this worthwhile endeavour.
2.5 The Republic of Palau, as an emerging young nation with relatively meagre human and natural  resources, fully recognizes also the value of developing appropriate and relevant educational strategies to address  the basic educational goals and objectives for social and economic advancement of our people into the new  millennium. It is with this national goal that a comprehensive national education master plan has been formally  developed and specific strategies devised for its implementation. Nonetheless, the challenges faced by both  private and public educational institutions, with their limited resources, have often had little success in addressing
408   the various educational issues. In this connection, the Republic of Palau continues to seek alternative strategies to  implement a workable education master plan for our children, and it is our hope that our membership of  UNESCO will assist us in this process. As you may be aware, primary education has a relatively similar intent in  both small and large countries, but for countries with a small population and limited resources, the challenges in  education will certainly require innovative strategies in order to meet economic, social and political development  needs into the twenty-first century. The assistance and cooperation of regional and international organizations in  this endeavour will, I believe, play a major role in achieving the educational goals and objectives of developing  countries, particularly the small island States in the Pacific, which are greatly disadvantaged by their smallness,  geographical isolation and limited human and natural resources.
2.6 Madam President, in the area of science, the Republic of Palau, in partnership with Japan and the United  States, has recently embarked on a project to establish a brand new scientific research centre in Palau. Although  the coral reef research centre is still in its initial developmental phase, we are confident that it will provide  scientists and researchers with a state-of-the-art facility for research. This centre will employ modern scientific  and technological research methods in the area of coral reefs and marine populations. The centre will serve as a  laboratory where marine research, particularly on coral reef systems and marine organisms whose lives and  survival depend greatly on a fragile ecosystem, will be carried out. Using this research laboratory, marine  biologists will be able to find answers to the problem of repairing the much damaged coral reef systems  throughout the world’s oceans. Important research in the field of medicine can and will also be conducted in this  facility in the search for a cure to some of the deadliest diseases that this century has witnessed. We are honoured  to host this important research centre set up for the benefit of mankind, and would welcome assistance, input and  cooperation from UNESCO as well as from other organizations and Member States.
2.7 Madam President, as this is my government’s inaugural meeting of UNESCO, I have much to learn and  to report back to my home government, and therefore would not attempt to address any specific issue. I would,  however, like to reserve the right to address any relevant issues that may arise during the deliberations of the  Conference.
2.8 Finally, Madam President, may I take this opportunity on behalf of my government to express my  sincere gratitude to the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Federico Mayor, for his vision, dedication and  commitment and for carrying the UNESCO torch, still burning and strong after twelve long years. The Republic  of Palau salutes him and wishes him the very best of luck in his future endeavours. I would also like to extend my  congratulations and warm welcome to His Excellency Mr Matsuura on being nominated as the new Director-  General and to assure him of the Republic of Palau’s support, cooperation and commitment during his term of  office. Last, but certainly not least, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the staff of  UNESCO Headquarters here in Paris, and to the representative of UNESCO’s South Pacific Office in Apia,  Samoa, for their assistance in working intelligently to achieve our full membership of the UNESCO family.  Thank you very much for your attention.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Sir, I thank you very much for your inaugural speech as your country enters the UNESCO family. I am  absolutely sure that the membership of your country will be an asset to the Organization and I should like to ask  you to convey to your government and your President our congratulations and our pleasure in having you as a  Member. I am sure that your membership will also strengthen the position and the understanding of small island  States and of all small States in general, to the mutual advantage of your country and the Organization. I feel  honoured to have been here and to welcome you when Palau became a Member State. Thank you, Sir. This is  indeed a happy occasion.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuacién)  OPTAHU3 AINA PABOTEI (npoxomxexne)
(2B) Je Yl pubis  TMEZHE CEE)
4. The PRESIDENT:  I now wish to inform you about the fourth General Committee meeting held this morning. The General  Committee recommended that, during the plenary meeting this afternoon, the General Conference should  examine item 3.2 concerning the adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 2000-2001. Are there any  objections to examining item 3.2 this afternoon? I see no objections. The recommendation of the General  Committee is thus adopted.
3A/O0JDKEHHOCTH HO B3HOCAM (npoxomxexne)  (ab) 3,50 ols say  R= CEE)
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  The General Committee also discussed the status of Member States which are in arrears and have not  sent communications invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution. May I remind  you that according to Rule 86, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, a Member  State shall have no vote in the General Conference if the total amount of contributions due from it exceeds the  total amount of the contributions payable by it for the current year and the immediately preceding calendar year.  However, the General Conference can permit such a Member State to vote if it is satisfied that the failure to pay  is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member State. Paragraph 4 of the same rule stipulates that Member  States shall address their communications invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the  Constitution to the Director-General, who shall transmit them to the Administrative Commission. You may recall  that on the recommendation of the General Committee, the General Conference decided to extend the deadline  for receiving these communications to 1 p.m. on 2 November, which was yesterday. The Administrative  Commission has examined the communications received before the expiration of the new deadline.
5.2 I would like to inform you about the status of Member States in arrears that did not send  communications to that effect before the new deadline. These States are: Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Sao  Tome and Principe, Yugoslavia and Vanuatu. It should be pointed out that among these five States, only  Afghanistan, Sao Tome and Principe and, as of yesterday, Vanuatu are actually represented and are participating  in the session. According to Rule 86, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, in the  absence of communications invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), these Member States “may  no longer be authorized to take part in voting at that session of the General Conference”. I now invite the plenary  to take note of this list of countries which will not have the right of vote during this session, as presented by the  General Committee. There are no comments. The General Conference has taken note that we shall abide by the  agreed Rules of Procedure.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)  OBCYXJIEHUE BOITPOCOB OBILIEÏ HOJIHTHKH (npoxomxexne)
6. The PRESIDENT:  We now continue the general policy debate, scheduled for today. As the first speaker, I call upon His  Excellency Dr Alkilou Ahmet Barringaye, Minister of National Education of Niger.
7.1 M. BARINGAYE (République du Niger) :  Madame la Présidente de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur  le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables participants, Mesdames et  Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d'abord de présenter à Madame la Présidente de la Conférence mes chaleureuses  félicitations pour sa brillante élection et tous mes voeux de succès dans l'accomplissement des tâches ardues et  exaltantes qui sont les siennes. C'est également pour moi l'occasion de rendre un hommage mérité au Directeur  général de l'UNESCO, M. Federico Mayor, dont le mandat, marqué par des innovations pertinentes, a de toute  évidence insufflé une dynamique nouvelle à notre Organisation.
7.2 Monsieur le Directeur général, en cette aube du XXIe siècle où la prolifération de la violence et des  conflits de tous ordres constitue dans différentes régions de notre planète le lot quotidien de nos semblables et  une menace pour la survie de l'humanité, l'UNESCO a retrouvé sous votre conduite la vitalité et la plénitude de  sa mission originelle : construire la paix. En faisant de la paix et de la tolérance le substrat de votre action à la  tête de l'UNESCO, vous avez réussi - avec brio il faut le dire - à faire partager à ce monde dominé par la culture  de la violence, l'intolérance, la marginalisation et l'exclusion, votre conviction profonde qu'il ne peut y avoir de  développement humain durable sans la paix et la stabilité.
7.3 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, ce dont le monde a besoin aujourd'hui, c'est d'un  développement collectivement recherché et équitablement partagé, car la paix, il faut en convenir, ne saurait se  construire sans que tout soit mis en oeuvre pour soustraire les populations à toutes les formes d'injustice : celles  qui condamnent à la violence, à la misère, à la souffrance, à la discrimination, à la confiscation des droits, aux  méfaits de la dictature, et pour tout dire à la révolte. Or précisément, au lieu qu'elle régresse, la misère étend et  développe sans cesse son empire dans le monde, accentuant les disparités entre nations riches et nations pauvres,  comme entre habitants d'un même pays, ce qui accroît encore les risques d'explosions sociales préjudiciables à la  fois à la stabilité des institutions et à la productivité des hommes.
7.4 S'agissant tout particulièrement du continent africain, l'impression dominante aujourd'hui est celle d'une  Afrique en situation d'insécurité permanente, en proie aux conflits locaux comme à une sorte de fatalité due aux  déséquilibres économiques, sociaux et culturels et ce, en dépit des progrès de la science et de la technologie.  Aussi assistons-nous chaque jour à une diminution de l'aide publique au développement alors même que la part  des dépenses militaires dans les budgets nationaux ne fait que croître.
7.5 Madame la Présidente, il est en effet fort inquiétant de constater qu'à l'heure où la majorité des pays du  monde ploient sous le poids énorme de la dette et se débattent pour survivre, plus de 980 milliards de dollars sont  investis dans l'achat d'armements. C'est pourquoi je demande aux pays riches plus de justice, de partage, de  solidarité et de compréhension à l'égard des pays en développement. Il y va de la survie de l'humanité. Le Niger  demeure convaincu que la seule grande et vraie croisade que l'humanité doit collectivement livrer, c'est  incontestablement de relever les deux plus grand défis qui se présentent simultanément à elle en cette aube  décisive du XXIe siècle : j'ai nommé le maintien de la paix, et la recherche du développement pour tous les  peuples et sur tous les continents.
7.6 En s'apprétant à célébrer en l'an 2000 l'Année internationale de la culture de la paix, l'UNESCO aborde  avec sérénité, lucidité et clairvoyance l'entrée de notre village planétaire dans le troisième millénaire. Cette
30e session est donc une étape décisive pour l'ensemble des Etats membres, car elle intervient au moment où la  mondialisation exige que nous fassions davantage preuve de solidarité, de partage et que nous promouvions une  éducation ouverte aux valeurs démocratiques et aux attitudes et principes qui fondent les droits de la personne  humaine. Il nous appartient, pour ce faire, de consolider tous les acquis en matière d'éducation, de science, de  culture et de communication et d'ouvrir de nouveaux chantiers, de nouvelles voies, de nouvelles perspectives,  voire de forger de nouvelles valeurs humaines et civiques favorisant la citoyenneté et l'aptitude à vivre ensemble  dans des sociétés de plus en plus multiculturelles.
7.7 Cette mission, l'humanité ne pourra la réussir qu'avec la participation de tous, c'est-à-dire qu'au prix d'un  engagement résolu de tous les Etats au plus haut niveau de responsabilité, mais aussi d'un changement profond  dans notre conception du processus éducatif lui-même. Comptant au nombre des pays ayant le plus faible taux de  scolarisation, mon pays se réjouit de l'attention particulière que l'UNESCO accorde à l'éducation pour tous tout  au long de la vie, ainsi que l'ont confirmé les travaux de la Commission internationale sur l'éducation pour le  vingt et unième siècle, présidée par M. Jacques Delors.
7.8 Madame la Présidente, la situation actuelle du système éducatif nigérien se caractérise par des coûts  élevés et un faible taux de scolarisation. Le taux brut de scolarisation dans l'enseignement primaire est, selon les  estimations, de 32,23 % pour 1998-1999. Ce taux de 32,23 % cache en réalité une grande disparité entre les  milieux urbain et rural, d'une part, et entre les filles et les garçons, d'autre part. Outre le très faible taux de  scolarisation dans le primaire, l'étendue des problèmes d'éducation au Niger se mesure également au taux élevé  d'analphabétisme - environ 83 %. C'est le lieu et l'occasion d'exprimer à l'UNESCO nos vifs remerciements pour  le prix d'alphabétisation Roi Sejong qui a été décerné cette année au Niger et qui est pour nous le plus bel  hommage rendu à nos efforts pour lutter contre l'analphabétisme et l'ignorance.
7.9 Outre le facteur démographique, les contre-performances du système éducatif sont accentuées par ses  coûts particulièrement élevés. Conscient de cet état de fait, et résolu à y remédier, mon pays a lancé un certain  nombre de réflexions fondées sur une large concertation avec tous les acteurs et partenaires de l'école nigérienne  et dont l'aboutissement a été la promulgation en juin 1998 de la Loi portant orientation du système éducatif.
7.10 Cependant, comme partout ailleurs en Afrique, la mise en oeuvre des réformes qu'implique une telle loi  ne peut se faire, au regard des ressources limitées de nos pays, que dans le cadre de la coopération bilatérale et  multilatérale. C'est pourquoi nous demandons avec insistance que la priorité accordée à l'Afrique soit  effectivement prise en compte dans l'allocation des budgets. De même, nous attendons de l'UNESCO qu'elle  renforce son appui à la "Décennie de l'éducation en Afrique".
7.11 Si la priorité des priorités est de toucher les exclus, c'est-à-dire tous ceux qui n'ont pas ou n'ont pas eu  accès à l'éducation de base, il n'en demeure pas moins que l'enseignement supérieur aussi doit cesser d'être  considéré comme un luxe pour nos pays et devenir un lieu de formation accessible à tous et en permanence. Dans  cette transition à l'échelle mondiale fortement marquée par la pensée rationnelle, scientifique et technologique,  l'enseignement supérieur et son rapprochement avec le secteur productif est la voie à suivre pour permettre à nos  pays de participer au progrès scientifique et aux bienfaits qui en découlent. Puisque notre stratégie au seuil du  troisième millénaire doit aussi reposer sur les performances de notre enseignement supérieur, un appui  conséquent doit être apporté à nos universités afin de réduire les écarts que creusent les prodigieuses avancées  scientifiques et technologiques du monde moderne.
7.12 A cet égard, nous saluons l'initiative de l'UNESCO qui a abouti en 1998 a l'organisation de la  Conférence mondiale sur l'enseignement supérieur. Dans le même ordre d'idées, le gouvernement du Niger  remercie très sincèrement par ma voix l'UNESCO pour tout l'appui et l'assistance qu'elle a toujours apportés à  notre pays dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication.
7.13 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, la jeunesse au nom de laquelle nous sommes réunis ne  saurait s'émanciper et s'épanouir sans bénéficier du minimum vital : alimentation, éducation, santé. C'est un  contrat de génération qui nous lie à cette jeunesse, en vertu de la responsabilité des générations présentes à  l'égard des générations futures. Mon pays, dont 50 % de la population a moins de 15 ans, ne peut que féliciter  l'UNESCO pour tous ses appuis et soutiens à cette frange très fragile de la société et se réjouir de l'attention  particulière qu'elle porte à la jeunesse, et dont témoigne l'organisation au cours de la présente session d'un Forum  spécial sur la jeunesse.
7.14 Je saisis cette heureuse occasion pour remercier encore une fois l'UNESCO de son soutien au  mouvement des associations, centres et clubs UNESCO. C'est grâce au soutien de notre Organisation commune  que mon pays a pu accueillir la cinquième Conférence panafricaine des associations et clubs UNESCO qui a  réuni la jeunesse africaine afin qu'elle débatte d'une question essentielle : la culture de la paix et son édification  en Afrique. J'ose espérer qu'à l'issue de cette 30e session, le Forum spécial consacré à la jeunesse de tous les  pays, qui coïncide avec le lancement de la Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la non-  Violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde, débouchera sur des mesures concrètes propres à renforcer  les facultés d'adaptation des jeunes aux changements rapides qui marquent notre époque.
7.15 Madame la Présidente, pour un pays confronté, comme le Niger, à un grave problème de désertification,  la place prépondérante accordée par l'UNESCO à l'énergie solaire est d'un intérêt certain. Ma délégation, tout en  félicitant l'Organisation pour les efforts déjà consentis, souhaite qu'ils soient poursuivis et intensifiés afin que les  énergies nouvelles et renouvelables puissent devenir un facteur d'amélioration des conditions de vie des  populations nigériennes à travers la multiplication des villages solaires, la popularisation des écotechnologies à  faible coût dans les zones rurales et l'électrification par l'énergie solaire des centres de santé intégrés.
7.16 Mon pays vient d'entamer la dernière phase d'une transition politique qui doit lui permettre de rejoindre  très bientôt le camp des nations démocratiques. Le premier tour des élections présidentielles, tenu le 17 octobre  dernier, a été salué et reconnu de par le monde comme un modèle de scrutin libre, transparent et honnête. La  campagne électorale qui a précédé ces élections a été également caractérisée par une sérénité et un esprit de  tolérance qu'ont soulignés l'ensemble des observateurs nationaux et internationaux. En organisant dans les mêmes  conditions le second tour des élections présidentielles et les élections législatives qui se dérouleront le
24 novembre prochain, le Conseil de réconciliation nationale et le gouvernement de transition auront gagné sans  aucun doute leur pari, à savoir ramener le Niger à la normalité constitutionnelle et lui offrir des meilleures  garanties de stabilité politique et sociale qui lui permettront d'envisager le troisième millénaire avec optimisme.  Mon gouvernement s'engage par ailleurs à promouvoir le dialogue interculturel, essence de la tolérance, de la  paix, de l'acceptation de l'autre, en un mot de la démocratie.
7.17 Pour terminer, Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi de rappeler que, si nous voulons renforcer  l'éducation pour la paix, les droits de l'homme, la démocratie, la compréhension internationale, la tolérance, le  dialogue des cultures, nous devons tous nous employer a former des citoyens d'un monde ouvert aux valeurs  universelles. Les technologies de la communication nous seront d'un puissant secours pour réussir dans cette  tâche. C'est pourquoi l'UNESCO doit davantage oeuvrer a réduire les disparités entre Etats dans le domaine de la  communication. C'est par les technologies de la communication et grâce à elles que s'opérera cette transition à  l'échelle mondiale, cette entrée dans le troisième millénaire, au cours duquel elles permettront de rapprocher  davantage les hommes et les femmes, les peuples et les nations, les continents afin que le village planétaire ne  soit plus une utopie, mais une réalité. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency, the Minister of National Education of Niger. Sir, I wish you a  successful transition to democracy, making as few mistakes as possible because it is easy, very easy, to make  mistakes. The gap you are afraid of, and rightly so, can only be bridged by education, dialogue and  communication, which will strengthen your part of the world, situated in the very heart of the continent. I thank  you again for your contribution. I now call Her Excellency, Ms Karina Pétersone, Minister of Culture of Latvia.
9.1 Ms PETERSONE (Latvia):  Madam President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  on behalf of my delegation and the Government of Latvia I would like to congratulate you, Madam President, on  your election to the presidency of the current session of the General Conference. It is a great pleasure for me to  address this distinguished audience and to present with some emotion the congratulations and good wishes of my  country, Latvia, to UNESCO on its 30th session of the General Conference, the last session of the twentieth  century. Allow me also to avail myself of this opportunity to warmly congratulate the Republic of Palau on  joining the family of UNESCO nations.
9.2 Madam President and distinguished participants of the General Conference, I come from a small but  dynamic State on the Baltic Sea with a very complicated history but with a very interesting and multifaceted  culture. Our country became a Member State of UNESCO in 1991 when Latvia regained its independence, and  we very highly appreciate the possibility of taking part in the programmes and activities of this world  organization of intellectual cooperation. As a multicultural society, Latvia has successfully maintained peaceful  coexistence among its people, reflecting unity and harmony, ideals which are dear to UNESCO. We have made  every effort to preserve our ancestral cultures and languages. The unity that we are building in an area of cultural  diversity is founded on tolerance and mutual respect. These precious qualities are being acquired during people’s  lifetime through appreciation of human and cultural values.
9.3 Latvia has always been part of European history, culture and civilization. During the first years of its  national sovereignty, from 1919 to 1941, 1t developed intensive cultural, scientific and economic relations with  other European nations and started to rebuild and develop them after restoring its independence eight years ago.  Through participation in the United Nations system and in UNESCO in particular, we have widened our horizon  and have become active and committed partners among other Member States. And more specifically in the  future, Latvia looks forward to more intensive cooperation with the Baltic Sea region countries in the fields of  education, science and culture, particularly in safeguarding the cultural and natural heritage, multicultural  education and coastal zones management. We highly appreciate UNESCO’s efforts in supporting these activities.
9.4 Madam President, as a representative of a post-communist country yourself, you will understand our  concern about the cold war period division of Europe between its West and Central European parts, which  unfortunately still exists, and not only in the minds of people. It exists also in UNESCO - our division of the  European electoral group into Group I and Group II is also a historical anachronism. This may widen the gap in  technology and culture, a gap created in the past on account of political barriers, and it may lead to new political  tensions.
9.5 However, the Latvian National Commission for UNESCO has made major efforts during the past  several years to ensure that Latvia takes an active part in the work of UNESCO. Let me refer only to a few  noteworthy events. The historic centre of Riga was included in the World Heritage List. The main process of  inventorying its architectural and cultural treasures is coming to an end. Latvia has submitted the materials for the  Abava river valley to be included in the World Heritage List as well. Mr Federico Mayor’s visit to Riga in 1998  accelerated many UNESCO activities in Latvia and I wish to cordially thank the Director-General for his genuine  deep interest in the situation and progress of the Member States. The opening of the International Centre of  Biomedicine and Biotechnology in Riga will give Latvia an opportunity to enter into broader international  cooperation in this field of science. Participation in all recent world conferences organized by UNESCO has  brought us closer to understanding world problems. We are also proud about one very recent event - yesterday,  the Melina Mercouri International Prize for the Safeguarding and Management of Cultural Landscapes was  awarded to the Pedvale Open Air Museum at its opening.
9.6 The Latvian National Commission for UNESCO has prepared and submitted several draft resolutions to  this session. One of them directly concerns our future development as an intellectually and culturally advanced  nation - namely, the Latvian National Library project, and we very much rely on your support.
9.7 In Latvia we attach particular importance to Major Programme III, Cultural development: the heritage  and creativity. Since our cultural and architectural heritage is so rich and covers such a vast historical period,  several of the proposed projects included in this programme are of particular interest to us, especially projects
12   involving young people in heritage protection. Of course, Latvia is also interested in the UNESCO education  programme, especially in reforming higher education in cooperation with the Latvian Academy of Sciences and  the University of Latvia. Our scientists have successfully joined the UNESCO science programme.
9.8 Distinguished delegates, we are faced with the emergence of a global information society, which can  deeply affect inter-human relations and cause an additional widening of technology gap. However, we are  inclined to turn it into an asset. Therefore, we fully support UNESCO’s programmes, which stimulate the  transition from a post-industrial to an information society.
9.9 Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates and guests of the General Conference,  we are witnesses of a process never yet experienced in history - the creation of a new Europe, which to our mind  deserves special attention from the world organization for intellectual cooperation. And let me assure you that its  decades-long experience fills us with confidence. Thank you for your attention.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I should very much like to thank Her Excellency Ms Karina Pétersone, Minister of Culture of Latvia. I  assure her that, being from the same part of the world, she has my full understanding. I am glad she mentioned  the role of young people and that they should be encouraged to protect the cultural heritage. That of course is  also a question of education. I now call the next speaker on my list, His Excellency Dr Davidson Hepburn,  Chairman of the National Commission for UNESCO, who will speak on behalf of the Minister of State for  Education of the Bahamas. Sir, you have the floor.
11.1 Mr HEPBURN (Bahamas):  Madam President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, the Bahamas delegation is grateful for  this opportunity to address the 30th session of the General Conference, and to convey our support for the  philosophy and work of UNESCO in the region. I am particularly honoured this morning to bring greetings from  the Honourable Minister for Education and Culture of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, and on her behalf, the  Bahamas delegation and myself extend warm congratulations to you on your election to this prestigious post and  to wish you a successful conclusion to the General Conference.
11.2 Madam President, the Bahamas continues to have as its priority the provision of basic education for all,  based on the principle of “inclusive schooling”, including early childhood education, special needs education and  innovative workplace and community-based programmes geared to the empowerment of young people and adults  alike. While all children between the ages of 5 and 16 years have access to schooling, and opportunities exist for  post-secondary education on a selective basis, the Bahamas needs to pay greater attention to equity and quality of  education so as to empower all of our citizens, especially those living in many of our more less developed  “family” islands. Following on the Jomtien Conference of 1990, special focus has been given to a number of  crucial issues: science and technology, the environment, improving the quality of education, improving school  supervision and the status of teachers, and distance education.
11.3 One of our specific goals as we approach the new millennium is to increase the scientific knowledge and  technological skills of our citizens. It pleases us, therefore, to note from document 30 C/5, inter alia, that the  provision of basic education for all, as well as literacy and basic skills training for young people and adults, will  continue to receive the highest priority. To successfully meet the challenges of the future and to adequately  prepare our people for an era of phenomenal scientific and technological advances, we have undertaken a number  of initiatives on the basis of science and technology, scientific knowledge, technical and vocational education and  adult literacy. In the area of science, the Bahamas has been vigorously involved in activities that support  cooperation with international partners and allow for regional strengthening and networking. We have  participated in the Associated Schools Project network through a Caribbean Sea regional essay competition, a  science and technology exhibition for primary students and the hosting of a subregional meeting for national  coordinators.
11.4 Madam President, we have maintained networks with local educational entities and continued our  regional partnerships with the University of the West Indies, the National Institute of Higher Education,  Research, Science and Technology, the Commonwealth Association of Science, Technology and Math  Educators, and the Caribbean Council, promoting a culture of peace and raising the environmental awareness of  the school and the wider community. If the region is to continue to promote an integrated approach to the  environment and use science for the service of development, a greater percentage of funds should be  decentralized to the region to make this possible.
11.5 In the area of capacity-building and education for sustainable development, for example, we have  embarked on a national literacy and community education programme which would foster in our youth and adult
414   population the value of education for lifelong living and the importance of a literate citizenry to the development  of small island States such as ours. For our efforts in this regard, we are pleased to announce that our former  Director of Education, who initiated the “Let’s read Bahamas” project was awarded an honourable mention in the  International Literacy Prize for 1999.
11.6 Madam President, as we seek to prepare our citizens for twenty-first century living, we have made  specific efforts to translate some of our major concerns into curricular programmes, including the teaching of  computer literacy/computer science and the incorporation of computers into schools as a means of instruction,  especially at the primary level; secondly, we are changing from the traditional teaching methods to more cross-  curricular approaches, as reflected in our participation in the solid waste and vector control projects organized by  the Ministry of Health, the Pan-American Health Organization and the World Health Organization; and thirdly,  the popularization of science in the wider community, through the joint efforts of the Ministry of Education, the  College of the Bahamas, the Ministry of Tourism and corporate citizens, is ongoing. We have mounted  workshops in eco-tourism and greenhouse management and implemented compensatory educational programmes  such as the Youth Empowerment and Skills Training scheme known as YEAST, national literacy services and
4-H clubs.
11.7 More than any other enterprise, education is crucial to all national endeavours. Its quality for the most  part depends on the professionals who staff our schools. Quality service from teaching personnel determines both  the standard of education in the country and the status accorded the teaching profession. Therefore, if schools are  to provide quality service they must be staffed by highly qualified and motivated individuals. Historically,  incentives in the Bahamas education system have tended to favour administrators, while teachers were rewarded  according to a single scale regardless of job demands and performance. This practice has resulted in (a) a  perception of teaching as not highly valued, and (b) a conviction that advancement within the system can be  achieved only by leaving the classroom to become an administrator. It should be pointed out that not all teachers  aspire to an administrative career. Therefore, if the quality of education is to be enhanced, outstanding teachers  must be encouraged to remain in the classroom and still receive fair compensation on the basis of merit for their  service.
11.8 Distinguished delegates, we stand on the threshold of the twenty-first century, a century which, from all  indications, will bring new opportunities, new challenges and new ideas. It will be a century in which the  progress of globalization will be accelerated and expanded. If the people of the Bahamas are to embrace the  opportunities presented by globalization and respond appropriately to its challenges, they must be equipped with  relevant knowledge, skills and attitudes. While these outcomes are cultivated by the educational system  generally, exposure to higher education provides opportunities for their refinement and consolidation. In its  efforts to provide equal educational opportunities for all, the College of the Bahamas has embraced the new  technology and is putting in place systems that will enable family islanders to pursue higher education objectives  without leaving their home districts during the current academic year. This has been made possible by assistance  from UNESCO, which provided funding for the establishment of a distance education facility at the College of  the Bahamas.
11.9 Madam President, the Bahamas welcomes UNESCO’s insistence that young people should feature more  prominently in the decision-making of their country’s growth and development. The governing bodies of this  Organization have convened the World Parliament of Children and we consider this a positive step in this  direction. The Bahamas is very grateful to have had two representatives in attendance and looks forward to the  effective implementation of the objectives outlined in the Manifesto.
11.10 Regional examples of environmental initiatives are evidenced in the Caribbean Sea project, supported  by UNESCO and the Caribbean Associated Schools Project to which I referred earlier. The ideas expressed  therein give focus to the economic, social, and cultural importance for the Caribbean Sea.
11.11 The recent devastation of several islands in the subregion by Hurricane George, and in our particular  case by Hurricane Floyd, has heightened the need for appropriate mechanisms for disaster preparedness. The  considerable resources and expertise of UNESCO may be of invaluable assistance in areas such as awareness  programmes, the training of disaster relief workers, the provision and acquisition of technology and assistance  with the monitoring and tracking of hurricanes and other natural disasters. Given the strategic position of the  islands, the Bahamas Government would be pleased to serve as the regional centre for UNESCO’s  interdisciplinary and intersectoral actions focused on research and training activities aimed at reducing  vulnerability to natural disasters, disaster preparedness, prevention and post-disaster evaluations and assessments.
11.12 In conclusion, Madam President and distinguished delegates, following the launch of the “Focus”  initiative, Caribbean Member States agreed on the priority areas for consideration. These included disaster
12   preparedness, the problem of the marginalization of young males, improving literacy performance, popularization  of science, travelling exhibitions, continuing education and education for entrepreneurship. We note as a direct  result of the “Focus on the Caribbean”, several aspects of the “Focus” project appear within different sections of  document 30 C/5. The Bahamas and indeed the region are very appreciative of the special attention given, but we  feel that if the region is to promote as well as implement a plan of action, as authorized by the Director-General’s  report, the existing allocation of funds for the purpose is inadequate. We trust that when the matter is reviewed on  the basis of the draft resolution submitted by Caribbean Member States, which covers the next five bienniums,  more funds will be made available to carry out these very worthwhile projects to ensure the sustainability of this  initiative.
11.13 Madam President, it would be remiss of me if I did not express my government’s gratitude to the  Director-General for his selfless contribution to the work of UNESCO during his tenure of office. We are  convinced that the future of UNESCO is secure as a result of his dedication and quality of service. We wish him  continued success in his personal endeavours. Thank you very much.
12. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank you, Your Excellency, Dr Davidson Hepburn, Chairman of the Bahamas National  Commission for UNESCO, and may I please ask you, Sir, to convey our greetings and my regards to the Minister  of State for Education on whose behalf you spoke, and also our congratulations on the initiatives and contacts  you have established. We certainly understand the importance of the awareness programme as far as natural  disasters are concerned. Thank you. I now call upon His Excellency, Mr Dimitar Dimitrov, Minister for Culture  of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
13.2 Ilob3y4cb CilydaeMm BBIpaXKAIO CBOE YIOBIIETBOPEHHE TEM, YTO Halla CTPAHA BMECTE C OCTAIIBHBIMH  rOCyAPpCTBAaMH — YIeHAMH 9T0H Opranm3anmx, Ha OCHOBE JEMOKPATHYECKHX METO/OB H B3AHMHOTO YBAXKEHHA,  YrIyOIHET ApyXeckHe H TYMAHHbIE OTHONICHHA MEKTY JIOMbMH, HE3ABHCHMO OT HX HalIHOHATBHOÏ,  perrHrno3H0H NIPUHAJICKHOCTH H MONA.
13.4 OuHospemeHHo XOTeN Obl MOAYEPKHYTh, YTO HA HCXOJME HbIHEIIHETO TbICAYEHETHA HEOOXOWHMO  paspaGoTaTb cTparernio rmepexoma B HOBOE TbicAYerrerne. MBI 4BIIHEMCA CBHIETEIAMH TOTO, YTO KOHEII  HACTOAMIETO TbICAYEJIETHA OTMEYCH CONbIHMH KOHQIMKTAMH H YeIOBEYECKHMH CTPANAHHAMH, CMEPTHIO H  OIIYCTONIEHHEM. HekoTopbIE H3 STHX SBJICHHHA ABIIMIOTCA CHEICTBHEM TPOSBICHHSA HETOJEPAHTHOCTH K  KYJIBTYpHOMÿ pa3Hoo0pasnro. PasHoobpa3ne He JOMKHO CIYXXHTb IPErATCTBHEM, HANPOTHB, OHO OJDKHO  OKa3bIBaTh CTHMyINpyronIee H oGorauaromtee BO3ACHCTBHE, TTIOITOMY ErO HEOOXOMHMO BCAYECKH COXPAHATL H  KYJIBTHBHPOBATb. Heo0xo1uMo coxpaHuTb HacHerme, IpHYEM 9TO KaCA€TCA HE TOJNBKO ECTECTBEHHOMO H  KYJIBTypHOro Hacjeaus, HO H HallleH reHETHYeECKOH H STHHYECKOH HaCIE/CTBEHHOCTH. lIpexkne Bcero,  HCOOXOAHMO 3a1YMaTbCH 00 S3THX oGenx BHMAX HACHE/CTBEHHOCTH, MOCKOJBKY — 53T0 Hamme Oyaymee,  ©JJHHCTBEHHOC, “TO MOKA BCE EIIE OCTAIIOCb HETPOHYTBIM.
13.5 /y1a Tol menu HEoOXOMMMO passnBaTb CTparernio oOpa3osanna Oyaymero, KoTopoe He HOIMKHO  CBOJIUTBCSA TONBKO K Méperaue WHOOpMAIMM H HHCTPYKTAXKY, a ZOJDKHO CTATb HHCTPYMEHTOM CO3AHHA  CBOOOTHOTO YesTOBEKA, CIOCOOHOTO MbICIIHTb H MpHHHMATb penreHns. Hy:kHO Take TOOUTHCS TOTO, YTOÔbI  HayKa CITy>KHIA He LICIIAM BOHHbI, à Jelly YKperLIeHH4a MHpa, Pa3BHTH4 H OnarococTosHna moyen. IIpezvrararo  HaIIIH YCHIIHS HAMPABUTh HA TO, YTOOBI MPHUAATh KYJIBTYPE 3ITHMONOTHYECKOC 3HAHEHHE CIIOBA «colerex», neas  OcoGbIH yriop Ha CBOGOAY JIHYHOCTH H HA JPYKECKOE COTPYHHYECTBO HA HAIHOHANBHOM HM MEKIYHAPOIHOM  YPOBHSX, à TAK)KE HA JINYHOCTH, BOCIPHHHMAIONIEH TOJIEpaHTHOCTb H ITO0OBb, KOTOPbIE TaKKe Oy1yT 06eperaTb  TYMaHHYIO H KYJIBTYPHYFO 9KOJIOTHIO.
0Opa3oBaHH4 H KYJIbTYPbI, YTO CO3JACT MPEATOChLIKH AIX OOJBIIETO B3AHMOIIOHHMAHHA H BOCIMHTAHMA B IYXE  TOJICPAHTHOCTH H KybTyphI MHpa. HcTopu4a TOBOPUT HAM O TOM, YTO Oynymee CHENYET CTPOUTh HA OCHOBE  KYJIBTYPbI MHPA H HA AHAJOTe MEKY IHBHIH3AUHIMH. MUP He ONpereTIAeTCA TOIBKO OTCYTCTBHEM KOH®JIHKTA,  a TIpesmonaraeT, rpexke BCero, CBOO0Iy, OOMEH 3HAHHAMH, HEMPEpbIBHOË PA3BUTHE H IEMOKPATHIO.
(13.1) M. DIMITROV (ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine) (traduit du russe) :  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, c'est avec une satisfaction particulière que je vous salue au nom du  gouvernement de la République de Macédoine et de sa délégation et forme des voeux pour que le travail de la
30e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO aboutisse et se révèle fructueux. En même temps, je voudrais  vous féliciter, Madame Moserovd, à l'occasion de votre élection à la présidence de la session en cours de la  Conférence générale.
(13.2) Je saisis cette occasion pour vous dire combien je suis satisfait que mon pays, conjointement avec les  autres Etats membres de l'Organisation, travaille, en s'appuyant sur des méthodes démocratiques et dans un esprit  de respect mutuel, à renforcer les relations amicales et humaines entre les êtres humains, indépendamment de leur  appartenance nationale et religieuse ou de leur sexe.
(13.3) Je veux en particulier dire toute notre reconnaissance au Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor, pour le  soutien qu'il a apporté jusqu'à présent à la République de Macédoine dans le cadre des activités de l'UNESCO.  Nous apprécions hautement la visite officielle qu'il a effectuée dans notre pays en 1997 et sa participation aux  rencontres poétiques internationales intitulées "Les soirées poétiques de Struga”, auxquelles il a ainsi donné un plus  grand retentissement.
(13.4) En même temps, je voudrais souligner qu'en cette fin de millénaire il est indispensable d'élaborer une  stratégie de transition vers le nouveau millénaire. Comme nous le constatons, la fin de ce millénaire est marquée  par d'importants conflits et par des souffrances humaines, par la mort et par les dévastations. Dans certains cas, ce  sont les conséquences de manifestations d'intolérance face à la diversité culturelle. La diversité ne doit pas être un  obstacle ; au contraire, elle doit exercer une action stimulante et enrichissante ; c'est pourquoi il faut par tous les  moyens la conserver et la cultiver. Il faut que nous conservions notre patrimoine, qui n'est d'ailleurs pas seulement  un patrimoine naturel et culturel mais aussi un patrimoine génétique et ethnique. Avant tout, nous devons réfléchir  à ces deux formes de patrimoine, car ils constituent notre avenir et la seule chose qui jusqu'à présent soit restée  inviolée.
(13.5) À cette fin, il faut élaborer une stratégie d'éducation pour l'avenir ; celle-ci ne doit pas se réduire à la  transmission d'informations et d'instructions mais doit devenir un instrument pour créer un homme libre, capable de  penser et de prendre des décisions. Il faut également faire en sorte que la science ne soit pas au service de la guerre  mais du renforcement de la paix, du développement et du bien-être des êtres humains. Je propose que nous nous  efforcions de rendre à la culture son sens étymologique, celui du mot "colere”, en insistant particulièrement sur la  liberté de la personne et la coopération amicale aux niveaux national et international ainsi que sur la personne en  tant qu'elle est réceptive à la tolérance et à l'amour, eux-mêmes garants d'une écologie humaine et culturelle.
(13.6) Ce sont l'approche globale et le dialogue ouvert qui rendent possible l'échange de données d'expérience  dans le domaine de la science, de l'éducation et de la culture, condition nécessaire à une meilleure compréhension  réciproque et à une éducation pour la tolérance et la culture de la paix. L'histoire nous enseigne que l'avenir se  construit sur la culture de la paix et sur le dialogue entre les civilisations. La paix ne se résume pas à l'absence de  conflits ; elle suppose avant tout la liberté, l'échange de connaissances, le développement durable et la démocratie.  (L'orateur poursuit en français)
13.7 Je crois que notre entrée dans le nouveau millénaire sera marquée par la création de conditions propres à  assurer l'avenir, un avenir meilleur. La culture de la guerre, qui est une anticulture, sera remplacée par la culture  de la paix et par une nouvelle forme de vie. C'est pourquoi notre pays, non seulement soutient la campagne de  l'UNESCO mais s'engage aussi largement que possible à participer à cette campagne pour l'année 2000, Année  internationale de la culture de la paix. Merci.
14. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency the Minister for Culture of the former Yugoslav Republic of  Macedonia. Sir, you are absolutely right to stress the need for foresight - I think that we are all aware of it. May I  now call upon His Excellency, the Honourable Godfrey Miyanda, Minister for Education of Zambia. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.
15.1 Mr MIY ANDA (Zambia):  Madam President, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, I thank you for the opportunity to address this august assembly for the first
12   time. Madam President, on behalf of the Zambian delegation, I wish to join other speakers in congratulating you  on your election as President of the 30th session of the General Conference. You have already met our  expectations by your firm and resolute conduct of this Conference so far, making us all confident that we made a  good choice.
15.2 Madam President, I rise to pay tribute to UNESCO. But before I do that, let me express my appreciation  to the wonderful people of France. You know, we often take a lot of things for granted. Here we are, shouting our  loudest about democracy, human rights, the culture of peace and so on. We may forget that we are on the  sovereign territory of another country. I therefore wish, on behalf of the Zambian delegation, to thank the French  Government and people for their commitment to UNESCO, for their generosity and magnanimity in hosting  UNESCO in their country for so many years. We should not take this goodwill for granted. I extend Zambia’s  fraternal and heartfelt greetings to the French Government for its hospitality since our arrival in this magnificent  and beautiful city.
15.3 Madam President, let me now take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Director-General, Mr Federico  Mayor, for a very successful and fruitful tour of duty. During his tenure he has given meaning to the phrase  “culture of peace”. In fact during this time the word “peace” appeared to be a new one in our vocabulary because  it seems to have been left out hitherto. For this reason I feel that the best tribute to the Director-General is to give  a brief report of how Zambia is playing its part in fulfilling the core objectives of UNESCO.
15.4 Before I continue, I wish to mention that details of Zambia’s programmes and activities which include  major reforms in basic education and tertiary education, will be given in the various commissions. We have  carried out major reforms in those areas, and I believe our experiences will be useful to other colleagues. For the  time being, I would just like to say, with regard to the budget, that Zambia supports scenario B in document
30 C/5, which advocates zero real growth. It is our submission that the nominal growth option will reduce the  budget by as much as US $33 million. We therefore urge all Members concerned about the plight of emerging  nations to support the Director General’s recommendation and vote for scenario B.
15.5  Madam President, Zambia is the product of pluralistic politics introduced in 1991. Before that time, our  people were first subjected to slavery and colonialism, among other ills. Later, we enjoyed multi-party politics  briefly, after attaining independence. Still later, however, the Zambian people were subjected to a new system,  that of the one-party State. At that time there was a belief in some quarters in Zambia that knowledge or wisdom  is the monopoly of a selected few, hence the imposition of a one-party system of government. Thanks to the  people of Zambia, and indeed the international community including UNESCO, this myth has been destroyed in  Zambia, hopefully never to arise again.
15.6 Madam President, Zambia’s commitment to the promotion of peace in the region has been significant.  Our country supported the liberation struggles in southern Africa at great economic, social and political cost, and  we are still feeling the impact of the these struggles. Recently, Zambia mediated in the Angolan conflict which  culminated in the Lusaka Protocol. It is our hope that the parties to this conflict will see the need to resolve it  amicably and quickly in the interest of all the Angolan people and indeed in the interest of the region and the  UNESCO family of nations. More recently, Zambia has played a leading role in finding a solution to the conflict  in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is our prayer that, here too, the parties concerned will honour their  agreement, which was the outcome not only of President Frederick Chiluba’s efforts, but also those of other  leaders in the region. Through this mediation, Africa has shown that it is possible, even in Africa, to resolve  conflicts through dialogue.
15.7 Madam President, in Zambia the introduction of pluralist politics in 1991 and the coming into office of a  government committed to an open political system, laid the foundations for a smooth transition from the one-  party State to a democratic one. Dialogue is being encouraged. There is increased recognition of the  contributions and the capabilities of all citizens, including women and girls, and respect for their basic rights and  dignity. This has led to concrete initiatives by government both at policy and implementation levels. The local  momentum has been supported by global fora on these issues. The guiding principle of the present government  has been to create an enabling environment for development.
15.8 — We must guard jealously the UNESCO spirit of building the defences of peace based on the democratic  principles of dignity, equality, sovereignty and mutual respect of peoples and cultures. In this regard, no nation  should impose its will, culture or values on others.
15.9 The challenge of UNESCO at the turn of the century is to come to terms with the past; to accept that we  were all wrong in one way or another. This calls for sincerity, honesty and truthfulness. The painful history of all  our pasts is firmly implanted in all our memories. Many communities suffered from imperialism, others suffered
418   under colonialism and racism, and yet others were victims of the slave trade and tribalism. Sometimes we may  assume that all is well and forgotten. For the sake of the culture of peace we should remember what happened in  the past, so that it can be a beacon to warn us not to repeat the same mistakes. UNESCO has continued to declare  days of peace, years of women, decades of education and so on. But no period of admitting our wrongs has been  declared. This is taking things for granted and has a bearing on our credibility. With your permission, Madam  President, I propose that UNESCO consider declaring a period of confession. During this period, nations should  publicly acknowledge or confess their past wrongs and say sorry to someone. I admit that dwelling on the past  may be retrogressive; but the past should not be ignored or forgotten either. The past is, or should be, one of the  building blocks upon which the foundation of future generations should be laid. During this confession period,  we should admit many of our wrongs such as lies if there are any, or the tampering with or falsifying of historical  records and other such misdeeds which continue to create mistrust and suspicion. This way we shall all regain our  credibility and the trust of those we have wronged or who were victims of our national policies. This is the  challenge of UNESCO now. This is the legacy of Mr Mayor. This is the challenge of the UNESCO family.
15.10 Last, but not least, Madam President, I wish to remind Member States to focus on and maintain our self-  imposed but noble mandate of contributing to peace and security in the world by promoting collaboration among  nations through knowledge, science and culture in order to promote development and to further universal respect  for justice, the rule of law and human rights for all peoples of the world. It is said that without knowledge, the  people perish. Zambia pledges to continue respecting these ideals. I thank you, Madam.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency, the Minister for Education of Zambia. I appreciate the fact that  Zambia actually plays a role in conflict resolution, and I agree that the past must not be forgotten but it should be  forgiven. I believe that the Minister for Education may be aware of the fact that the French Parliament has made  an important step in recognizing the errors of the past concerning slavery, and that the Executive Board of  UNESCO was informed about this and discussed it at a special meeting. So steps are being made. May I now call  upon the next speaker, Her Excellency Ms Erna Hennicot-Schoepges, Minister for Culture, Higher Education and  Research of Luxembourg.
17.1 Mme HENNICOT-SCHOEPGES (Luxembourg) :  Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, comme l'a relevé avant moi ma collègue  finlandaise, Mme Suvi Lindén, qui s'est déjà exprimée au nom de l'Union européenne et de ses Etats membres, la  présente session de notre conférence générale se situe à un moment crucial, non seulement dans l'histoire de notre  Organisation, mais aussi dans le devenir de l'humanité tout entière. En effet, de grands choix politiques,  économiques, sociaux et culturels se profilent devant nous pour les mois et les années à venir, alors qu'émerge un  nouvel ordre international sous le signe de ce qu'il est convenu d'appeler la mondialisation.
17.2 Nous vivons désormais le temps du monde fini annoncé par Paul Valéry, un temps décrit ainsi dans un  récent rapport établi pour la Commission nationale française pour l'UNESCO : "... La mondialisation s'inscrit  dans l'avènement d'une nouvelle civilisation. Cette métamorphose de la société touche tous les aspects de la vie  personnelle et collective, les rapports de l'homme à l'espace et au temps, la fécondité et la démographie, les  relations sociales dans le travail et le temps libre, la condition féminine, les moeurs, les valeurs et les rapports de  pouvoir. Flle puise ses origines dans la généralisation des applications de la science à toutes les activités  humaines et dans l'explosion des nouvelles technologies. Elle soulève des problèmes aigus de régulation touchant  l'économie et les équilibres écologiques. Elle appelle des progrès fondamentaux sur l'éthique. Elle entraîne  l'acceptation d'un aggiornamento culturel et l'évolution des liens sociaux. Elle nécessite une réforme en  profondeur de la pensée sur les systèmes organisationnels politiques et éducatif."
17.3 Cette citation met en effet en lumière l'ampleur des défis devant lesquels sont placés les responsables  politiques du monde entier réunis au sein de notre Conférence générale, et plus particulièrement l'UNESCO dans  le cadre du mandat que lui confère son Acte constitutif et ses organes dirigeants. Gérer cette profonde mutation  économique et culturelle dans un sens socialement et politiquement acceptable, au profit du plus grand nombre,  me paraît être la tâche primordiale à laquelle notre Organisation devra elle aussi s'atteler dans les domaines  d'action et d'intervention qui lui sont propres. Le nouveau Directeur général que nous nous apprêtons à désigner  se devra de donner l'impulsion nécessaire pour favoriser l'émergence de cette "UNESCO du XXIe siècle”, plus  performante, mieux centrée sur ses objectifs primordiaux, que j'appelle de mes voeux. Dans cette tâche majeure,  il trouvera notre plein appui. En effet, l'UNESCO - qui vient d'accueillir son cent quatre-vingt-huitième Etat  membre - me paraît devoir être le lieu par excellence où devrait se produire non pas le choc des civilisations que  d'aucuns postulent, mais un véritable dialogue des cultures reposant sur le respect de la diversité culturelle et du  pluralisme linguistique. Car, comme l'a constaté Claude Lévi-Strauss : "Il n'y a pas, il ne peut y avoir une  civilisation mondiale au sens absolu que l'on donne à ce terme, puisque la civilisation implique la coexistence de  cultures offrant entre elles le maximum de diversité, et consiste même en cette coexistence."
17.4 Il m'apparait dès lors essentiel de garantir dans le cadre des prochaines négociations commerciales  internationales - et nous en avons parlé longuement hier lors de la table ronde sur la culture - la possibilité pour  tous les Etats de préserver et développer leurs capacités de définir et mettre en oeuvre librement leurs politiques  culturelles et audiovisuelles pour la préservation de leurs diversités culturelles.
17.5 D'une manière générale, la recherche de nouveaux modes de régulation des relations entre les peuples  doit se décliner dans les divers domaines d'action de notre Organisation, tels qu'ils sont définis dans notre  programme d'action pour le prochain exercice biennal. S'agissant en particulier de la recherche d'un  développement humain et économique durable, je suis particulièrement satisfaite que mon pays, le Luxembourg,  soit en voie de répondre aux objectifs de l'ONU en consacrant, à partir de l'an 2000, 0,7 % de son PNB à l'aide  publique au développement. Le nouveau gouvernement luxembourgeois issu des élections législatives de juin de  cette année a décidé de porter cette aide a 1 % du PNB dans les cinq années à venir.
17.6 Outre la santé, c'est l'éducation qui est le secteur prioritaire de notre coopération. En effet, comme nous  l'avons constaté à l'occasion de la Conférence mondiale sur l'enseignement supérieur voici un an en ces mêmes  lieux, l'éducation demeure plus que jamais la clé du développement. C'est par elle que nos enfants, nos jeunes,  mais nos adultes aussi, peuvent acquérir les connaissances et les outils intellectuels indispensables pour s'intégrer  de manière plus efficace aux processus sociaux et économiques qui leur permettent d'assurer leur promotion  sociale. C'est par l'éducation que nos concitoyens peuvent apprendre à gérer de manière harmonieuse ces  identités plurielles - y compris dans le domaine des langues - qui sont de plus en plus la marque de la modernité.  C'est à travers elle, enfin, que nous pourrons acquérir la maîtrise des nouvelles technologies qui sont en train de  bouleverser tous les aspects de notre vie quotidienne. Mon pays entend s'insérer activement dans ce processus par  une offre pédagogique et scientifique accrue dans le domaine de l'enseignement supérieur, y compris dans le  domaine postuniversitaire. Dans cette perspective, le gouvernement luxembourgeois poursuivra la mise en oeuvre  de la loi du 11 août 1996 portant réforme de l'enseignement supérieur en replaçant ses réformes dans le contexte  régional, européen et international dans lesquels elles peuvent s'épanouir pleinement. Ainsi mon pays se dote  progressivement des instruments nécessaires pour participer, selon ses modes propres, à la construction de  l'espace éducatif mondial du prochain millénaire.
17.7 Dans le domaine de la recherche aussi, le Luxembourg se veut partie prenante active et des efforts  supplémentaires seront consentis en vue de développer les capacités scientifiques et technologiques nationales, et  promouvoir ainsi le passage de notre économie à une économie fondée sur le savoir. Par une programmation  pluriannuelle de la recherche publique, par le fonctionnement du Fonds national de la recherche récemment créé,  par aussi la mise à disposition de moyens financiers accrus, le Luxembourg entend intensifier sa participation à  l'échange scientifique et technologique européen et international sans pour autant perdre de vue les questions  éthiques, sociales et environnementales centrales qui doivent trouver des réponses acceptables dans le cadre d'un  large débat démocratique.
17.8 En particulier, le développement des nouvelles technologies de la communication et l'annonce d'une  convergence accrue entre l'audiovisuel, les télécommunications et l'informatique, rendue possible par la  révolution numérique en cours, ouvrent des perspectives enthousiasmantes et offrent aussi des possibilités moins  positives, comme les discussions engagées également à l'UNESCO sur les contenus illicites sur l'Internet, en  particulier en matière de pédophilie et de propagande raciste ou xénophobe, l'a clairement mis en lumière.  L'éternel débat sur la liberté et les abus qui peuvent en être faits ne peut déboucher sur des réponses simples et  définitives, et il doit être poursuivi à l'échelle mondiale, car c'est à cette échelle que les problèmes se posent et  doivent être résolus. Il me paraît essentiel que tous les pays du monde disposent - outre des infrastructures de  base dans les domaines de l'eau potable, de l'énergie, des transports et des communications entendues au sens  large - des capacités humaines et technologiques nécessaires pour pouvoir tirer pleinement profit de la profonde  mutation technologique qui remodèle actuellement la face du monde. L'équité et la justice l'exigent absolument.  Voilà aussi pourquoi mon pays s'honore de pouvoir apporter une contribution significative aux programmes de  l'UNESCO en matière d'information et de communication, qui constituent une dimension stratégique essentielle  de l'action de notre Organisation.
17.9 Penser la culture à l'ère de la mondialisation est un défi intellectuel, mais aussi politique, de tout premier  ordre. Les dialectiques complexes de l'universel et du singulier, de la communication à l'échelle mondiale et de la  préservation de la diversité linguistique, des valeurs universelles et des traditions particulières, des spiritualités et  du rationalisme scientifique constituent un champ d'exploration immense que nous devons parcourir d'urgence,  tant il est impératif de trouver des réponses — fussent-elles partielles et provisoires - aux questions qui se posent  inéluctablement à nous. Entre une uniformisation finalement stérile et une fragmentation identitaire défensive,  voire agressive, des voies d'évolution positives doivent être tracées afin de permettre à tous les peuples d'exister  et de coexister sur notre petite planète bleue.
17.10 Voilà pourquoi il doit être reconnu plus concrètement et activement par tous les gouvernements que le  développement culturel est une partie intégrante de tout processus de développement véritable et durable. Voilà  pourquoi encore chaque pays, grand ou petit, doit disposer des moyens de faire entendre sa voix dans le grand  concert des nations et doit pouvoir faire valoir sa singularité et son originalité propre dans ce grand dialogue des  civilisations qu'il nous faut construire ici dans cette maison, qui est la maison de toutes les cultures, pour  reprendre l'une des formules favorites de M. Federico Mayor. Et je voudrais profiter de l'occasion pour rendre  hommage à notre Directeur général dont le mandat s'achève après 12 ans d'un ministère - dans tous les sens du  mot - qui aura transformé profondément l'UNESCO. Visionnaire et homme d'action, optimiste actif, comme il  s'est défini lui-même, M. Mayor a constamment tâché de se concentrer sur la mission première de l'UNESCO, à  savoir la promotion d'une culture de la paix dont il a fait le thème central et le point de convergence de tous ses  efforts.
17.11 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général adjoint, le Luxembourg souscrit pleinement au  programme proposé par l'UNESCO dans le cadre de l'Année internationale de la culture de la paix. Notre  Commission nationale y prend une part active avec un certain nombre de manifestations phares et d'initiatives  destinées à sensibiliser à la fois le grand public et certains publics cibles pour la construction d'un monde plus  pacifique.
17.12 Une communication efficace est indispensable pour renforcer les relations avec les Etats membres, pour  gagner les décideurs politiques, économiques et culturels aux grandes idées de l'UNESCO, pour élargir  l'adhésion et la participation des Etats aux programmes et activités de l'UNESCO. Pour mieux faire passer le  message de l'UNESCO, il faut donner une image positive de l'Organisation en insistant sur son utilité dans la lutte  contre la pauvreté, les inégalités, les exclusions, les injustices, le mauvais usage des capacités économiques,  culturelles, scientifiques existant dans le monde. Il faut renforcer l'information du public, notamment par une  diffusion plus large du Courrier de l'UNESCO), ou, pour un public plus spécifique, des grands rapports, comme le  Rapport mondial sur l'éducation, le Rapport mondial sur la science, le Rapport mondial sur la communication et  l'information, le Rapport mondial sur la culture, les rapports des grandes commissions comme celles qu'ont  dirigées Jacques Delors et Javier Pérez de Cuéllar. L'UNESCO devra également poursuivre ses efforts en vue de  mettre à profit les possibilités quasiment illimitées offertes par l'Internet. Enfin, elle devra réfléchir aux moyens  de renforcer le principal maillon entre le Secrétariat et les Etats membres, c'est-à-dire les commissions nationales.
17.13 Ce sont en effet les commissions nationales qui incarnent l'UNESCO, qui assurent sa présence et sa  visibilité dans les différents pays. Bien évidemment, il incombe d'abord aux Etats membres de créer, par l'octroi  de ressources humaines et matérielles adéquates, des conditions plus favorables à leur fonctionnement. Mais le  Secrétariat de l'UNESCO doit également leur venir en aide. Des efforts appréciables ont déjà été accomplis dans  ce sens, notamment par la diffusion d'un excellent manuel à l'usage des commissions nationales. Il faudrait  continuer sur cette lancée, par exemple en leur facilitant leur tâche d'information et de communication, en leur  offrant des possibilités accrues de formation, et surtout, en les associant plus étroitement au travail conceptuel et  à l'orientation générale de l'UNESCO.
17.14 L'UNESCO du XXIe siècle, nous devons la vouloir, nous devons la construire, nous devons l'organiser  de manière efficace, afin qu'elle puisse répondre aux multiples défis devant lesquels elle est, devant lesquels nous  sommes. Et nous devons la vouloir maintenant, lors de cette Conférence générale, en définissant des orientations  et en adoptant des décisions qui soient à la mesure de nos ambitions. Car, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs,  nous devons avoir l'audace de nos ambitions. Sinon les jeunes, heureusement représentés pour la première fois à  la Conférence générale, pourront nous lancer un jour cette terrible phrase de Camus : "Alors qu'ils pouvaient  tout, ils ont si peu osé”. Je vous remercie.  (M. Evgueny Sidorov, Fédération de Russie, prend la présidence)
93TO OCHOBA Kak JEATEIBHOCTH FOHECKO, Tak, BHAHMO, H BCe€# YMAHHTAPHOH MOJNHTHKH XXI Beka. À ceH-ac  CIIOBO HMeeT Ee IIpesocxomnTenbcTBo lena Konnc, munnctp Hachenns Kaxabi.
(18) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Permettez-moi de remercier chaleureusement Mme Hennicot-Schoepges pour sa remarquable  intervention. C'est avec un intérêt particulier que nous avons entendu parler de la réforme de l'éducation qui est en  préparation au Luxembourg, dans la mesure où l'éducation est à la base même de l'activité de l'UNESCO comme  semble-t-il, de l'ensemble de la politique humaniste du XXIe siècle. Je donne maintenant la parole à Mme Copps,  ministre canadienne du patrimoine.
19.1 Mme COPPS (Canada) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Excellences, distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis  heureuse et honorée de m'adresser pour la deuxième fois à la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO au nom du  gouvernement du Canada. J'ai en effet déjà pris la parole devant cette assemblée en octobre 1997. L'UNESCO,  guidée par son Directeur général, a participé et continue de participer aux principaux débats qui sont engagés à  l'échelle mondiale.  (L'oratrice poursuit en espagnol)
(19.2) (traduit de l'espagnol) Je tiens également à saisir cette occasion pour rendre hommage et exprimer mes  remerciements les plus sincères, ainsi que ceux du gouvernement canadien, au Directeur général sortant,  M. Federico Mayor, pour le travail qu'il a accompli au cours de ses deux mandats à la tête de l'Organisation.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.3 Mr President, in only two months we will be in the year 2000, and we will have a new Director-General.  For many people around the world, the millennium can be a symbol of hope, a time for change - change for the  better. But it is also a time of great challenge. We live in a world where knowledge is the key, where innovation  and creativity spawn social change and economic growth, where technology breaks down barriers of time and  geography, and where education is critical to the development of each human being, where science is spectacular  and scary, where culture is essential to human expression and identity, and where rapid change is world currency.  In this context, there is only one international organization that has all the elements to make a difference, and that  organization is UNESCO. UNESCO must be the instrument of hope and of positive change. It must be the bridge  to the people, to help us meet the challenges of our times. But UNESCO will only succeed if we work together as  Member States to make this Organization better, more open, more efficient, more transparent. We need to reflect  the priorities of the Member States. Canada attaches great importance to this exercise and is pleased to be  associated with the work of the Task Force for UNESCO in the twenty-first century established by the Executive  Board. The Task Force mandate is to generate ideas and to make recommendations to the next session of the  General Conference.  (L'oratrice poursuit en français)
19.4 Le Canada attache une très grande importance à la réforme de l'UNESCO. Nous sommes d'avis que des  relations d'un type nouveau doivent s'instaurer entre le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat. L'UNESCO doit gérer  ses programmes et ses ressources avec souplesse et en tenant compte des priorités des Etats membres. Il convient  d'accélérer la réforme des méthodes de travail du Secrétariat et d'adopter des modalités d'établissement du  programme et du budget axées sur les résultats. Le Canada est très attaché au maintien de liens privilégiés entre  l'UNESCO et la société civile, au travers principalement des commissions nationales.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.5 The Government of Canada has also offered the services of the Auditor General of Canada for a second  term as the External Auditor of UNESCO. We believe the experience and professionalism of his team could be of  assistance to the new Director-General.
19.6 Canada also agrees with the Director-General who affirms the unanimous recognition of the fundamental  importance of education. Education is the key to development and democracy. We are therefore surprised to see  reductions in the portion of the budget dedicated to education. Canada believes that UNESCO should address  urgently the recommendation made in the last External Auditor report to give high priority to developing a  strategic plan for the education sector. And we also support a transdisciplinary approach to education which  encompasses environment, human rights and democracy. Education is a lifelong process, and we commend  UNESCO for incorporating these principles into its programmes. Basic education is the true building block of  equality. Teaching a child to read and write is a stronger guarantee of world peace than giving a child a gun.
19.7 Mr President, the Canadian Government is pleased with the outcome of the World Conference on  Science in Budapest. The Hungarian Government, UNESCO and ICSU should equally be congratulated for  having organized this major gathering.
198 Why UNESCO? Why now? UNESCO’s ethical mission goes to the heart of world challenges. We were  therefore pleased to participate in the first session of the Intergovernmental Committee on Bioethics in Rabat.  International discussions on science and biodiversity are increasingly converging with those on cultural diversity.  (L'oratrice poursuit en francais)
19.9 C'est pourquoi le Canada continue a encourager l'UNESCO pour qu'elle donne la priorité à la protection  du patrimoine. Des initiatives telles que l'adoption du deuxième protocole de la Convention de La Haye, le  renforcement de la Convention du patrimoine mondial ou l'élaboration d'une nouvelle convention portant sur le  patrimoine culturel subaquatique contribuent à la connaissance de l'histoire et à la préservation de l'identité et de  la diversité culturelle partout dans le monde.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.10 Canada is also a very avid supporter of the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) programme. In January of  this year we nominated two candidate biosphere reserves to UNESCO: Clayoquot Sound in British Columbia,  and Redberry Lake in Saskatchewan. And we are thrilled to hear that there is a recommendation coming on those  issues.  (L'oratrice poursuit en francais)
19.11 À l'ère de la mondialisation, le Canada est convaincu de la nécessité de favoriser la pluralité des cultures  et des langues, qui constituent notre patrimoine vivant et doivent à ce titre compter parmi les priorités de  l'UNESCO.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.12 Since we have been meeting, ten languages in the world have disappeared. Ten languages which  contribute to the human diversity of the planet.  (L'oratrice poursuit en français)
19.13 Voici déjà huit ans, lors de la Conférence de Rio, nous avons reconnu la nécessité de préserver la  biodiversité des espèces végétales et animales. En quoi la diversité du genre humain est-elle moins importante  que celle de la nature ? C'est pourquoi le Canada soumet avec la France et d'autres pays à la Conférence générale  un projet de résolution tendant à affirmer le rôle de l'UNESCO dans la promotion et la protection de la diversité  culturelle.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.14 Canada is committed to building on the momentum created by the Stockholm Conference. As Mr Mayor  has noted, one of the major initiatives following Stockholm was the June 1998 international meeting of ministers  of culture in Canada. This meeting led to the establishment of the International Network on Cultural Policy, an  innovative and flexible network that provides a venue for national ministers of culture to work together in  realizing the Stockholm Action Plan.  (L'oratrice poursuit en francais)
19.15 Les efforts déployés par le Canada dans la lutte contre les mines antipersonnel sont un bon exemple des  résultats obtenus au niveau national.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.16 The land mines issue was brought to the world table by the people, and the issues of cultural diversity  must also be brought to the world table by the people, which is why we are committed to working not just with  national governments but, in particular, with National Commissions in every country to underscore the  importance to civilization of respect for diversity. Our network recently met in Oaxaca, Mexico, and meetings are  currently planned in Greece, Switzerland and South Africa for the years 2000, 2001 and 2002.  (L'oratrice poursuit en francais)
19.17 Le Canada considère que la diversité culturelle est un droit fondamental de chaque être humain, aussi  important que le droit de respirer un air pur ou de disposer d'un littoral non pollué. Nous proposons donc  l'adoption d'un nouvel instrument international sur la diversité culturelle qui aille au-delà des textes de l'OMC.  Cet instrument a pour objet d'établir un cadre international permettant aux Etats membres de poursuivre leur  politique de défense de leur identité culturelle tout en respectant les règles internationales. Il reconnaîtrait  également l'importance de la diversité culturelle pour le développement économique et social de l'ensemble de la  planète. Dans le droit fil du Plan de Stockholm, et face aux défis liés à la mondialisation, le Canada cherche à  mobiliser les pays qui partagent ses préoccupations en vue d'encourager l'adoption d'un tel cadre international  favorisant la diversité des cultures. Les ministres membres du Réseau international sur la politique culturelle sont  convenus à cet effet d'entreprendre des travaux qui débuteront le mois prochain au Canada.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.18 Two years ago, in this hall, Canada challenged UNESCO to play a role in nurturing and affirming the  importance of cultural diversity in the world. Cultural diversity is as important to UNESCO as the role played by  the World Trade Organization (WTO) in commerce. Canada was thrilled that UNESCO took up the challenge  and that it has proposed that WTO establish a consultative link between the two organizations. I believe that by  working more directly on the issue of cultural diversity, UNESCO can exercise international leadership in this  critical area. The challenge goes beyond economics. Development must be grounded in respect for cultural  diversity. Canada is therefore extremely pleased by UNESCO’s cooperation with the World Bank and the Inter-  American Development Bank. Support for cultural diversity and respect for cultural traditions can also be an  economic trampoline in countries that are looking for new ways to attract world attention. Canada is pleased with  the steps taken by UNESCO in the few years since “Our Creative Diversity” was published. One of those steps  took place yesterday.  (L'oratrice poursuit en français)
19.19 J'ai eu le plaisir de coprésider, avec la ministre française de la culture, Mme Catherine Trautmann, une  table ronde des ministres de la culture réunissant plus de 50 pays sur le thème "La culture et la créativité face à la  mondialisation". Les ministres de la culture, dont je vois quelques-uns ici aujourd'hui, ont voulu que les  conclusions de cette table ronde encouragent l'UNESCO à renforcer son rôle de chef de file culturel et guident  ses travaux à court et à moyen terme. M. Mayor s'est engagé à les présenter à la Conférence générale, et nous  comptons sur le nouveau Directeur général pour les mettre en oeuvre.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.20 When I was asked by my Prime Minister three years ago to become Minister of Culture, having  previously been Minister for the Environment, I was shocked to find that there was not a single international  opportunity for culture ministers to meet on an annual basis. Finance ministers meet, trade ministers meet, but  never had there been an organized, annual meeting of culture ministers, and I was thrilled yesterday when  Mr Mayor suggested that the extremely successful round-table discussion of over fifty countries represented by  their ministers would be repeated in the future on an annual basis. One day was too short to explore the issues we  share in common.  (L'oratrice poursuit en français)
19.21 Nous espérons disposer l'an prochain d'un minimum de deux jours pour poursuivre les travaux très  importants que nous avons entrepris sur le respect de la diversité culturelle. La table ronde a souligné  l'importance des nouvelles technologies, mais aussi la nécessité de politiques supranationales pour assurer que la  culture ne sera pas ravalée au rang de produit commercial.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.22 Yesterday’s round table underscored the importance of international, supra-governmental efforts to  ensure a cultural, social and economic lead bridge-building amongst cultures and countries. That is why Canada  supported the resolution inviting the Director-General to enter into negotiations with the Secretary-General of  ITU considering the possibility of a joint conference. Finally, Mr President, Canada would be pleased to  welcome to our country the new UNESCO Institute for Statistics.  (L'oratrice poursuit en français)
19.23 La présence d'un riche ensemble de centres de recherche et d'universités, ainsi que la proximité de  Statistique Canada, entité mondialement reconnue, font de Montréal un siège idéal que je vous propose. Chers  délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, en cette fin de millénaire, le monde voit surgir de nouveaux défis d'ordre  moral et éthique. Aucune autre organisation internationale n'est un meilleur lieu de convergence sur les questions  fondamentales que pose la survie de ce que nous appelons la civilisation, l'éducation, les sciences naturelles,  sociales et humaines, la culture et la communication.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.24 In our own country we were thrilled only a month ago to launch the world’s first ever national television  network for Aboriginal peoples which is not only targeted towards Aboriginal peoples but will be seen and  available in every single home in Canada. We are committed to UNESCO?s mission of respect for majorities and  minorities. We believe that UNESCO speaks directly to our national concern to form a common future with  respect for diversity. UNESCO?s plan gives priority to human security and again we believe that a book is better  than a gun. Respect for fundamental freedoms, universal and lifelong education, cultural diversity and freedom of  expression. UNESCO must be the soul of the world. It brings together the challenges of our times and calls on us  to make a difference. But we also, Member States, call on UNESCO to make a difference. We need a stronger  participation of civil society. We hope that next year’s meeting of culture ministers will include a segment  devoted to the participation of civil society - not as bystanders, but as full participants. A great man once said “I  do not want my house to be walled in on all sides and my windows to be stuffed. I want the culture of all the  lands to be blown about my house as freely as possible, but I refuse to be blown off my feet by any”. That man  was Mahatma Gandhi. UNESCO must be the window on the cultures of the world and it can make sure that those  cultures remain as important to human diversity as sustainable development is to biodiversity. Globalization can  be a voyage of discovery and interconnection, as we the ministers of culture saw yesterday in our shared learning  experience.  (L'oratrice poursuit en francais)
19.25 Mais la mondialisation pourrait aussi être une plongée dans le monoculturalisme et le monolinguisme.  C'est 'UNESCO qui sera responsable de la nature de ce voyage. Merci beaucoup.  (The speaker continues in English)
19.26 Canada believes that UNESCO can discharge our responsibilities and that together we can make  globalization a voyage of true discovery. Thank you very much.
20. IIPE/CF/ATEJIb:  bombmroe cracnôo r-xa Kormc. Kanaga n Bel 1myYHO HEHCTBHTENIBHO OYEHb MHOTO HeTaeTe if  o6rermHeHNA ycHITHi rocymapets - wienos FOHECKO B o6macTH kynbTypsl. B To xe Bpems 4 oOpamarck K  BbICTYITATONIHM, MHJIbIM JJaMaM H TOCIIOJIaM, C IPOCbOOH COOMIOMATb, IO-BO3MOXHOCTH, pernamexT. Ceñuac 4  TIPE[OCTABJIMIO CIIOBO MUHUCTPY BHYTPeHHHX jen byTaxa, Ero IIpesocxoanTenbcTBy r-ny ['yamrmo.
(20) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je vous remercie beaucoup, Madame Copps. Le Canada et vous-même faites effectivement beaucoup  pour unir les efforts des Etats membres de l'UNESCO dans le domaine de la culture. En même temps, je prie  Mesdames et Messieurs les intervenants de bien vouloir dans la mesure du possible respecter le règlement. Je  donne maintenant la parole au Ministre des affaires étrangères du Bhoutan, M. Gyamtsho.
21.1 Mr GYAMTSHO (Bhutan):  Mr President, Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation, allow me to convey our warmest felicitations to  Ms Moserova upon her election as President of the 30th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We are  confident that with her knowledge, skill and experience she will steer the work of this important Conference to a  successful conclusion.
21.2 May we also express our appreciation to Mr Federico Mayor, Director-General, for the manner in which  he has guided the work of UNESCO over the last 12 years. We are grateful to him for the many steps that he has  taken to make UNESCO a more effective and responsive Organization. We wish him every success in his future  endeavours. The Secretariat deserves our highest commendation for the excellent documents prepared for the  Conference. The Executive Board has completed its task in a thorough and competent manner and its  recommendations on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000-2001 deserve our full support.
21.3 My delegation would like to convey its heartiest congratulations to His Excellency, Mr Koichiro  Matsuura, for his nomination by the Executive Board as its candidate for the post of Director-General of  UNESCO. We are confident that the General Conference will unanimously endorse his candidature. My  delegation wishes him every success and would like to assure him of our fullest support and cooperation in  carrying out his important responsibilities. Lastly, my delegation would like to welcome Micronesia and Palau as  Member States of UNESCO and the Cayman Islands for being admitted as an Associate Member.
21.4 Mr President, this Conference assumes a special significance, as it is the last one before the start of the  new millennium. Much has been achieved by UNESCO in the last five decades, yet much more remains to be  done. The efforts of UNESCO, and of many others devoted to promoting the welfare of the human person, have  fallen far short of expectations. It is a sad commentary on this century that, despite its ground-breaking advances  in science and knowledge, the vast majority of the world’s population still lives in abject poverty and misery.  This Conference, therefore, is an important occasion to take stock of achievements and failures for the challenges  ahead. UNESCO’s mission to foster a culture of peace and human and sustainable development framed more  than 50 years ago continues to remain valid. Perhaps at this juncture we need only to reaffirm our faith in that  mission and devise strategies for its realization.
21.5 My delegation welcomes the declaration of the year 2000 as International Year for the Culture of Peace.  On its launch on 14 September this year, Bhutan formally joined the global peace initiatives through the  traditional lighting of thousands of butter lamps for world peace and signing the Peace Manifesto. In Bhutan, we  believe that peace is a state of mind and, therefore, there can be no peace if there is no peace within. My  delegation believes that the global initiative launched by UNESCO will contribute towards efforts to nurture  peace from within all of us, and will help usher in the new century with a true culture of peace as opposed to the  century that we are leaving behind, which has been marred by wars, bloodshed and destruction.
21.6 The coming millennium holds tremendous opportunities and challenges for all, and UNESCO has rightly  recognized the need to develop information societies based on knowledge resources. It now needs to ensure that  its education, science and technology programmes are geared towards bridging the digital divide between the  information “haves” and “have-nots” on a sustainable basis. The information age requires a certain level of  infrastructure to be in place so that its benefits are pervasive throughout the developed and developing world. To  this end, UNESCO must be able to assist the developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, in  building appropriate infrastructure in the area of education. It is encouraging to note that the Director-General  designate intends to focus his efforts on, amongst others, education and new technologies in the developing  nations.
21.7 Mr President, my delegation is pleased to note that since the World Conference on Education for All in  Jomtien, Thailand, in 1990, in which I was most privileged to participate in my capacity as the then head of  Bhutan’s education system, education has moved up the list of priorities of many governments. In Bhutan, ever  since 1961 when the nation started its modernization programme, education has been at the top of our priority  list. This priority has not changed. The Royal Government still allocates more than 26% of its national budget to  the social sector, of which education is a very important component. However, as a least developed country, the  task is not easy. Bhutan has to continue to look forward to the support of the international community in this most  vital sector of human development.
21.8 An issue of growing concern 1s that, with about 50% of the world’s population in their youth, there is an  increase in drug-related problems and juvenile delinquency. My delegation, therefore, feels that there is a need to  place greater emphasis on instilling values education in children and restoring family values to revive social  cohesion. The challenges for all of us remain enormous, so are the means to overcome them. The activities of  UNESCO, therefore, deserve our active support. Bhutan, for its part, is making every effort to respond to these  challenges. The recent establishment of new youth centres in different parts of the Kingdom is an example of the  determined efforts my country is making in this direction. We would welcome the active support of UNESCO in  our endeavours in this area.
21.9 Mr President, Bhutan fully supports the objectives of promoting an integrated approach to the  preservation and enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage. In a fast-changing world, this aspect of  UNESCO’s work is of paramount importance. In Bhutan, we have come to believe that a nation’s progress  should be measured not only by its achievements in the socio-economic fields but also by its success in  preserving and promoting its culture and traditions. Thus, for us the gross national happiness of the people is an  important as the gross national product. Gross national happiness is a concept espoused by His Majesty, King  Jigme Singye Wangchuck, for his people, according to which development in Bhutan is characterized by a  process that seeks to maintain the correct balance between socio-economic progress, environmental sustainability  and the preservation of traditional, cultural and spiritual values.
21.10 Since becoming a member of UNESCO in 1982, Bhutan has had very fruitful and intimate cooperation  with the Organization. It has benefited from UNESCO?s assistance, particularly in the fields of education and  culture. It has also, in its own small way, worked to promote the principles and objectives enshrined in the  Constitution of UNESCO. The time has perhaps come for Bhutan to play a more active role in this august  Organization. In this connection, I am pleased to report that on 30 October 1999, Her Majesty Ashi Tshering  Yangdon Wangchuck, the Queen of Bhutan, attended the International UNESCO Benefit Gala for Children in  Need held in Dusseldorf, Germany, as the guest of honour as well as one of its keynote speakers.
21.11 Further, my country has decided to seek membership of the Executive Board of UNESCO, which will be  elected in part by this Conference on 9 November. My delegation is hopeful that the Conference will extend its  wholehearted support to Bhutan’s candidature. It is the first time that Bhutan is seeking membership of a  subsidiary organ of UNESCO, and if elected to the Executive Board, my country and my government are  determined to make every effort to make meaningful contributions to this body and UNESCO. As this  Conference is aware, Bhutan embarked on a gradual and cautious path of modernization only in 1961. As a late  starter, it has had the advantage of learning from others. At the same time, as stated earlier, Bhutan has  deliberately pursued a development path that seeks to find a balance between modernity and tradition. We have  gained many useful insights in the process, and would like to share them with others. We also hope to learn from  others through active involvement in the work of UNESCO and its Executive Board. I thank you, Mr President.
22. IIPE/[CF/[ATEJB:
51 Taxe Omaromapro Bame I[pesocxomnTenbcTBO 3a Bare BricTymieHwe H 3a Te NpeoxeHna,  KOTOpbIe Bel cinema. OHM HECOMHEHHO OYAYT NMPHHATH BO BHHMaHHe. À ceñ“ac, IO3BONbTE MPENOCTABHTb  coBo Ee IIpeBocxoauTenbcTBy MHHHCTpPY KyJIbTypbI OcToHNH, r-xe Kun. [->xa Kuen, npoury Bac.
(22) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je vous remercie également pour votre intervention et pour les propositions que vous avez faites. Elles  seront sans aucun doute prises en considération. Permettez-moi maintenant de donner la parole à la Ministre  estonienne de la culture, Mme Kivi.
23.1 Ms KIVI (Estonia):  Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished guests of  States and delegations, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Estonian delegation I would like to  express our gratitude to you, Mr Mayor, for your tireless efforts in fostering the ideals of UNESCO and for the  special attention you have paid to each and every Member State. I would also like to greet the new Director-  General and wish him every success in his challenging endeavour.
23.2 Allow me to introduce the Estonian intervention with the words of the President of Estonia, Mr Lennart  Meri: “Culture is the highest form of democracy and tolerance. There are no big and small cultures. There are  only different cultures, each priceless because of its uniqueness”.
23.3 On this very special occasion, facing not only a new millennium, not only major changes within  UNESCO, but radical change within the family and the community, within countries and regions, Estonia  believes that our time calls for a cultural transformation, for total transparency and for radical reforms both in  social structures and in mentalities - a transition from the logic of force to the force of reason. The transition,  however, has made us acutely aware of the challenge for nations of integration into a globalizing world. How can  distinct yet smaller States maintain their identity when larger States seem to dominate the global cultural space?  This is where UNESCO plays an important role and the new integration provides an opportunity for countries to  play a larger part in this mission.
23.4 The world we have inherited must be passed on to our children in the best possible shape. In order to  pass that world on as a place worth living in, we must first and foremost preserve three components: peace, health  and culture. By peace, we mean mutual tolerance, the absence of national, gender-related or political conflicts  through reciprocal acceptance and the guarantee of full equality. The notion of health implies the harmony of the  body, the spirit and the soul. Culture, the basis of our definition of the self, implies the representation of our  existing heritage and the mutual enrichment of individuals through their learning to know one another. In today’s  world, basic peace and health are out of the reach of millions. We have to develop these ideas and defend a  person’s fundamental right to the future.
23.5 Estonia fully supports the idea of the culture of peace, the need to seek new ways of living together  based on conciliation, generosity and tolerance and unlimited respect for human rights, the rejection of all forms  of oppression and violence, and equitable distribution of wealth, the free flow of information and the real sharing  of knowledge. The call by Mr Federico Mayor for measures to be taken and events to be held that will foster  these ideals has been heard in Estonia. The House of Peace, symbolizing the political will and the will of the
12   people to serve the cause of peace and non-violence is situated in the Latin Quarter, the heart of Old Tallinn that  was included in UNESCO’s World Heritage List in 1997. The House of Peace, home to all United Nations  agencies in Estonia symbolizes the treasures of humanity that bring together art, science and religion in the circle  of Culture. We see the culture of peace as morality in action and culture as the highest form of democracy and  tolerance. The Banner of Peace, designed by Nicholas Roerich in 1929 as an international symbol of culture,  gives us a sense of Progress and of the significance of Peace on Earth, appealing to our collective conscience and  reminding us of that human responsibility and charity that was stressed in the Valencia Declaration. Indeed, it is  time to act, in full realization of our human responsibility for all our choices made possible by scientific and  technological progress.
23.6 Estonia fully supports the idea of lifelong learning as a major key to help people adapt to the tempo of  change. We also believe in UNESCO's ability to remain at the forefront of the international community as a  flexible and dynamic organization, maintaining its special place as protector of the existence and distinctiveness  of the nations of the world. The question of utilizing the possibilities afforded by an information society and of  implementing them to strengthen linguistic and cultural diversity still hovers in the air. Estonia believes in the  special role of UNESCO and in its unique ability to promote international awareness of the existence and  distinctiveness of the peoples of the world, particularly the very smallest nations. Our history has taught us that as  no man is an island unto himself, no living organism is complete in itself, but is always part of a continuous  process in time and space - where everyone is a participant and everyone affects everyone else. Perhaps this is the  real message for the turn of the millennium - the question of human duties and responsibilities in the face of the  unknown. Thank you for your attention.
24. IIPE/[CF/[ATEJB:  bombmoe cracnôo r-xa Kuen. Bei momaere OnncTatTenbHb rpumep He TOJbKO B OTHONIEHHH  COJEPKATENBHOCTH CBOETO BbICTYILIEHHA, HO H €ro IMpOHONKHTENBHOCTH MO BpeMeHH. Bei mpexpacHO  YNOXHIHCb B periameHT. CeHtac 4 IrpeOcTaBJIiO CHOBO T-Hy Moxameay Imb-mnin, l'exneparrbHoMmy THPEKTOPY  Opraxns3auxn T0 BOMPOCAM 0Opa30OBaHHA, KYJIBTYPbI H HayKH J[HrH apa6cKkHx rocynapcTs.
(24) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Merci beaucoup, Madame Kivi. Par la teneur de votre intervention mais aussi par sa durée, vous nous  avez donné un excellent exemple. Vous avez parfaitement respecté le règlement. Je donne maintenant la parole à  M. El Mili, directeur général de l'Organisation arabe pour l'éducation, la culture et la science.  : (gl) edt aad! Yo,  BDU Lal) Lyall LB ES Lang 00 uel of Gare Boldly lop! obandl lool  Jas ibis asl JS25 of à Laggs WUT ool all pad ai) gg yll Ja) L Laos Labia pslalls  Lo Jl LAS oud Gas Lille of mle 5e 485 bo play 5nd oF con Saiall LAU sie (S5 dla  Be py oslo Lily, 1 SNA Les J] gr dl lly (Gf tin als Sgnat ie line  rs po I Sill of le 5 Uske tule hed Sul ada ol ol ble coil ls  ale Gags FS pl pli) la Lest a Ll 265 of cls ph sad Sie lll wlan)  + aie US A Basel! 4085 Bagg Bilal CET ASS La fins II pola dale Sandy 5, Lo  Do $35 YLT Baty Gay Aline GI comms § pS Ga Ime pall § Lionel 85h pls]  opel VI lam BLAS [SHI asym lil La GEI ESA gan aa Le goilos  show of JB (EIT 5 gy «Blogs dls pes of À oblsll G> GE Laôlas CAiblAll psgho uf Lois  SY Bas le Uy Ally dl Go uel Losi rl of ud L psgill tha oN] AH Bebo J)  PRES [P 83 LT A, plisn oe Les piliShs Class  SEEN Ge 43551 Ged Ly EY Sal pl § pas 35 byl § Lagi pel OS 135 Yo,  dl sol Gaal Gand lanl oY (dl de ol JB sill ob «ag! Os sO SAI 5 yess  Fare JS à ody Lf ay ohaniall § dba Lu dl old! Je Leo ss Ld pled) § algo  Fo dul yo Lil jag pal a las J $5 J] dl> y : Les Less doll dass 4454 Ji, OS of (sis  Phil dl> yo UE pea Lao esl, Joli sad JI Pa clad of rll YY) dw SIN LY © Lai dl
428   —  IT pais SAN Gaby Ahaill Gall Ae df 9585 AS Ge BST amlidl 0) Lilo Haye oa
034  (puis lady 51s pig 92 de BI 3 21 SUBI Jal IE pad pil of Badly Yor  Dane Bas Ca (93S (gps Dla0ls sleidYl po dy bs 1325 0nd Yl 099 CSS Guile lL  GS § Jai axsil 13a ho 5 of ol piill Lg all Wolo Alas ¥ Sale Yolo oil (Baas Ish,
5 bill Lao pe lina V — pasa à — Lea Le Jleadly Load] (205 Lhd BW J ook  of car La Jal of dng Ng alma SHI 595 Aly 51,401 bles 3] «Jaw Ge Lgudd! $i "A  Jaze SU ENS Ila gr res ST 0 0a § Jlasdly lea plas! 50 FIR (RT  gn Vs (3931S GudoLaie LIS Las of amg AUS Sal JB LS 0 (lial isTy Lao gs BT Lola)  SU SBE la abo ll] cals ll pally clad of VI coLuël$ laser gad  JS 55 poll pI § Sus! daly olay Jha sa dy Gan 08 Lan fais
(25.1) M. EL MILI (ALECSO) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je suis heureux de présenter le point de vue de l'Organisation arabe  pour l'éducation, la culture et la science, qui regroupe les Etats arabes. L'espoir est grand de voir les travaux de  cette 30e session marquer un tournant important qui permettra à l'Organisation de surmonter avec succès les crises  qu'elle a connues. Nos souffrances à nous qui appartenons à ce qu'il est convenu d'appeler depuis les années 50 le  tiers monde, tiennent à la nature de la relation qui nous liait dans le passé et qui nous lie aujourd'hui à l'Occident.  Cette relation est aujourd'hui dominée par un discours qui insiste sur le fait que les changements qui déterminent le  cours des événements mondiaux depuis près de 10 ans ont, sinon sonné la fin de l'histoire, du moins préparé  l'avènement d'un système universel dominé par une seule civilisation sous une direction unipolaire. Ainsi, la  plupart de nos pays sont soumis à une domination qui n'est pas sans rappeler celle que subissait l'homme dans  l'épopée homérique de l'Antiquité : celui-ci n'était pas maître de son destin, car son avenir dépendait de la volonté  de dieux non dépourvus de caractéristiques humaines, qui prenaient plaisir à jouer avec le sort des gens, jusqu'au  jour où la pensée socratique mit fin à cette conception. C'est alors que naquit le concept de citoyenneté, qui défend  le droit du citoyen de comprendre, de questionner et de demander des comptes, de prendre part au débat, avant de  parvenir à la formulation d'une décision. Mais ce concept ne tarda pas à être battu en brèche lorsque le droit de  questionner et de débattre devint l'apanage d'une élite dont la dictature ne différait guère de celle des dieux de  l'Iiade et de l'Odyssée.
(25.2) Si les grandes figures de la Renaissance en Europe ont réussi à interpréter l'héritage grec, ce qui a permis  de s'émanciper de la féodalité et de la domination de la pensée obscurantiste du Moyen Age, les Lumières n'ont  touché que le seul Occident, car la colonisation de peuples étrangers a abouti à une situation où, selon la règle du  "deux poids deux mesures”, ce qui était valable pour les pays occidentaux ne l'était pas pour les colonies. Or, tout  projet d'avenir doit comporter plusieurs étapes étroitement reliées entre elles : une première étape consiste à  analyser la situation et l'étudier de manière à déboucher sur une remise en question des méthodes établies. Cette  remise en question aboutit bien sûr à un dialogue et un échange de vues, qui débouchent sur la troisième étape,  celle de la formulation de la décision appropriée. La quatrième étape concerne ensuite l'application de la décision et  la mise en oeuvre d'un mécanisme d'exécution.
(25.3) Force est de constater que l'Occident refuse le plus souvent la participation des autres au débat, et même  dans ses propres contrées, il s'occupe des deux dernières étapes en négligeant les deux premières. Voilà pourquoi  l'attention est concentrée sur la formation de gestionnaires dont la pensée obéit à des modèles précis et qui dictent  des solutions toutes faites qui ne conviennent pas toujours pour faire face aux mutations. Le danger de cette  orientation est qu'elle aboutit à une culture standard qui rejette la diversité et le dialogue, si bien qu'elle ne se  distingue guère - dans son essence - du fondamentalisme extrémiste qui réalise un nivellement par le bas en  s'adressant aux instincts et en supprimant le rôle de la pensée et de l'effort d'interprétation (ijtihad). Or on sait que  le plus grand danger qui menace l'humanité c'est l'absence de dialogue et de communication, tandis que tout effort  qui facilite la communication et la fécondation réciproque des idées rend l'humanité moins barbare et plus  solidaire ; car comme l'a dit Martin Luther King, nous devons vivre tous solidaires comme des frères ou nous  mourrons tous comme des imbéciles. En effet, la politique, au sens noble du mot, revient fondamentalement à  abattre les cloisons entre les cultures qui nous séparent les uns des autres. Tel est le défi essentiel que l'UNESCO  devra relever au cours du prochain siècle. Merci.
(26) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je vous remercie beaucoup de votre intervention. Je donne la parole à Mme Omar, ambassadrice,  déléguée permanente de l'Egypte auprès de l'UNESCO.  (poo) yb Baad] VV,  Segall Lab] all pall GEL sud! SA Gall Gud ddl aE Aad) COL Sane  lake 35230 duolio à pus oa 130 Jl andl of (pm adh slasly 555501 slug; Saludly cola  Lod) oda jeily Basal pod doghil (5 Sill SY ll Jha ll 800501 Aa) pl asl! 3  oui Pme pui Las Gol! rail RY: PR le «Bg 2550 Saad ¢ poi 3d! dus, Based! So oe  oo pel LS cai 8,8 § lilas] Go Lebill wii Log Sax Go is bo do ynbo Sy pad spud) Sal
3 Banal) pol Loghia 990 Jo 2STlg pl Joie 5 pOladl 1957 5 lll LU LAY I Labi  Loglioy coludlly >LAIL plosa¥ly all Jo sladlly COLIN sis Jo Blsdly «ALI pall 550  plyinly «Jolidl [loll LALS 5) munis pass cdi 5 SLT By (lo Jonlly ¢ Jolt olay)  ar oJ gull on il Lualall dE pall LES LUally cpledl nal 138 5 Dd gall Gale  Ll Lad on se Lod 0% yes] of ssl RTE sls Soludly wolapadl slug Jl olldl YVY  dy AU Lud Nf (MAY 0) so Llally polish £9520 ad duslios Ady MY Lilly
3382 Sly pales coped pull go VUS 3 Sass] wall xe as À pala] Lod] yw] cdl  CIN dy Lo) Ld cio idl gu le Sly cdl a 3 dal Oped Je fondly
3B polass ello dog>)ls  (sal Ed) Sy Lilly Tymbadl pslall plat) USD Lie pee Ju cpslall Lully ARLENE:  BET sd Juss S22) (lowsdll BS © La of easily oe ag 3 eg]! Jad SsLäl Cag] 284  of | > 50 bf RS casio Lala zl PEICY © J msl ped p39 Ay gg0d | rg KPA @b
430   Oy LS, wlowss § polyp oiled] Gold do JS 55 Sal Lyd! Sl palall Susp! iS  leg dll 3s dll Loy dud! (SSL asd pés pl Of rx UR  Jandy LoS all GUT lols wll lo blé 53S, sega Jig (BE Lull (WE vv,e  will ABUS! SA Jo Seiad! § ALI BIEN 3S pes ll Bad me plié Me Lois dl led]  pul lsh] D> os coll 559 Gadgo sl Old Sxiwe Gol (lo US iy omublly J)  By meld Sel £50 bl § Led ueg DI gb § lish dll, CUS buds Me Jandy 8p)  gs OplilLy Lys 5903 she psy Laelia Vlg Dumb! pull oY Sly ill § GISI pds nb  Gls casks LS sSudsall pW pall eile Sp v0id sad! 19507 " atom) BLE" Gly wins sSadsdl  wb garde Gas pal 35 ALI sill 13 papal 13a oF cpp By (Jal 3a à Lupe Jus  pol ro 589 cn ptiall Il Aes pgp li 96d LS LS pape Ll yas3ll Jo (ag yall 205s  el le wily cues II hud JI LSU 03gd bwgill yamdly hws 3,8) Bibi Lis 1 à leg all  Salil pois V gcd YI ASUS le Laolge 02195 gw Lg SV BI won ods CSS  Sy lax plas] Sys TBs LpuSaYl nas Wigs meal JWI JL 55 Le ee le Leo
53°  Gy J BLL (Say Cole UT spall stall alll $b] 5 Jas Lilly aly vv  pabeillg FUI palais oll palailly Jiblly 8,udl dole Laosis wig du pl Ladi wlsladl  sas) oT Bread ZBL slew loslally LUA was LS Zab Bll) lal cols Joly rola]  dl d Lady Leg yho layliiel wlboglall Lixo oiShy (ose! Jo 1S dl 925 4235 dbl cl!  dos}!  le Lx GS dls eked sod à bose Je LS 0f J) Sally axel SIN dy VV  w = ” s f. = *  aM dos yg pSale pl ceed! JS rnd 5513 pola] YE le )5ô8l 5515 ASIN sugar
(27.1) Mme OMAR (Egypte) (traduit de l'arabe) :  Monsieur le Vice-Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres de  délégation, je suis heureux de prendre la parole devant cette auguste assemblée, en une occasion qui nous est chère  - la tenue de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, laquelle représente l'instance morale et intellectuelle du système  des Nations Unies. Je saisis cette occasion pour féliciter Mme Moserovd, présidente de la Conférence générale, de  son accession à ces hautes fonctions, et je remercie vivement M. Federico Mayor pour les efforts qu'il a déployés et  les progrès faits par l'Organisation durant son mandat. Je félicite enfin M. Koïchiro Matsuura, nouveau Directeur  général, en lui souhaitant de s'acquitter de ses nouvelles tâches avec succès et de maintenir l'Organisation sur la  voie du progrès, et en l'assurant de la coopération de mon pays à l'avenir ; nous nous engageons à soutenir tous les  efforts constructifs qu'il fera dans les années à venir.
(27.2) L'UNESCO a un rôle important à jouer au moment où le monde aborde le troisième millénaire confronté  à de nombreux problèmes, à des conflits régionaux et des guerres civiles, à des différends raciaux et ethniques, et à  des vagues de terrorisme. Elle est chargée d'ériger les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes au moyen de  l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. Telle est la mission fixée par les pères fondateurs de l'Organisation dans  l'Acte constitutif établi en 1945. Au cours des 50 années passées, l'UNESCO a accompli de grands progrès dans ce  domaine. Les phénomènes négatifs évoqués plus haut qui ont affleuré à la surface nous incitent non pas à  désespérer, mais à redoubler d'efforts pour développer la prospérité, la paix, le respect des droits de l'homme, la  démocratie et la tolérance au profit de l'humanité. L'Organisation doit oeuvrer sérieusement pour, premièrement,  répondre à l'invitation de l'Organisation des Nations Unies à intensifier les efforts pendant l'Année internationale de  la culture de la paix (année 2000) et la Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une culture de la non-violence et  de la paix au profit des enfants du monde (2001-2010), d'autant qu'elle a été chargée de coordonner les activités  organisées dans le cadre de l'Année ; deuxièmement, pour répondre à l'appel de l'Organisation des Nations Unies  demandant de déployer des efforts pour assurer le succès de l'Année des Nations Unies pour le dialogue entre les  civilisations (année 2001) en favorisant la diversité culturelle et en renforçant le pluralisme culturel et le dialogue
28.  entre les cultures, domaine important où l'Organisation déploie des efforts remarquables ; troisièmement, mettre  l'accent pendant les deux années à venir sur la préparation de la Stratégie à moyen terme de l'Organisation pour
2002-2007, engager une réflexion approfondie sur le rôle de l'Organisation pendant le troisième millénaire et sur  les moyens de semer les germes de la paix dans l'esprit des hommes, affirmer le rôle du système des Nations Unies  dans la défense de la paix dans le monde, défendre les droits de l'homme, en finir avec la pauvreté, accorder une  attention particulière aux femmes et aux jeunes, lutter contre le terrorisme international, obtenir que cessent les  investissements dans l'armement, ne pas encourager la production d'armes de destruction totale, respecter les  instruments internationaux dans ce domaine important, et prêter attention aux questions d'éthique dans le domaine  des connaissances scientifiques, technologiques et biologiques.
(27.3) Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres de délégation, je voudrais aborder ci-après, à l'occasion de  la présentation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2000-2001 certaines questions importantes pour mon  pays. Premièrement, en ce qui concerne l'éducation, les dirigeants politiques de l'Egypte considèrent l'enseignement  comme une des principales tâches du pays, ils y voient comme une sécurité pour la nation, et c'est la raison pour  laquelle le budget de l'enseignement est passé au cours des dix dernières années de 4,5 à 17 milliards de livres  égyptiennes. Près de 10.000 écoles ont été créées à raison de 1.500 par an, de même que cinq universités, une d'Etat  et quatre privées. Les réseaux et les technologies ont été développés dans les universités et les écoles. La stratégie  de l'enseignement en Egypte obéit aux orientations de l'UNESCO concernant le droit à l'éducation pour tous,  l'éducation sans frontières, l'amélioration de l'enseignement à tous les niveaux et le renforcement des activités  d'alphabétisation, de sorte que le taux d'analphabétisme a diminué de 10 %, et les efforts se poursuivent.
(27.4) Deuxièmement, en ce qui concerne les sciences, l'Egypte accorde une attention particulière à  l'enseignement des sciences exactes et naturelles et des sciences appliquées ainsi qu'à la recherche scientifique. Les  dirigeants du pays s'attachent à promouvoir la technologie dans tous les domaines de spécialisation et la  constitution d'un Conseil spécial relevant du Président de la République est en cours. L'Egypte participe à tous les  programmes scientifiques de l'UNESCO ; or, dernièrement, huit spécialistes de divers secteurs du programme ont  été transférés du Bureau régional de science et de technologie pour les Etats arabes au Caire sans être remplacés et  nous demandons que ce bureau soit doté des ressources nécessaires pour poursuivre l'exécution des projets.
(27.5)  Troisièmement, en ce qui concerne la culture, des efforts intenses sont déployés pour assurer la  préservation du patrimoine, en particulier des vestiges islamiques au Caire, et les services compétents collaborent  avec le Comité du patrimoine mondial et le Centre de l'UNESCO pour le patrimoine mondial à l'application de la  Convention concernant la protection du patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel, cela à un très haut niveau, sous la  supervision d'experts internationaux. Au cours des cinq dernières années, l'Egypte s'est attachée à promouvoir le  livre, la lecture et les bibliothèques dans tout le pays, dans le cadre du projet de lecture pour tous. Des millions de  livres ont été imprimés concernant le patrimoine, les chefs-d'oeuvre de la littérature et les sciences naturelles et  sociales. Un Séminaire international a été organisé en coopération avec l'UNESCO sur le thème "la lecture pour  tous”, en présence de M. Federico Mayor, directeur général de l'UNESCO. Un atelier arabe a également été  organisé dans ce domaine, et je suis heureux de voir que ce projet de portée mondiale a été inscrit dans le Projet de  programme et de budget soumis à la Conférence. Quant au projet de Bibliothèque d'Alexandrie, qui véritablement  couronne le XXe siècle, c'est l'un des projets les plus importants de l'Afrique, du Moyen-Orient et de la  Méditerranée. Cette bibliothèque numérique a été conçue et réalisée au plus haut niveau, intégrant les systèmes  électroniques les plus modernes et bientôt ses fonds seront disponibles sur l'Internet de sorte que le monde entier, et  non plus seulement l'Egypte, pourra en jouir. Alexandrie va ainsi redevenir un centre de rayonnement culturel et  civilisationnel international.
(27.6) Enfin, en ce qui concerne la communication, le satellite égyptien Naylsat a été lancé. Ainsi, à côté des  chaînes traditionnelles, des chaînes spécialisées sont consacrées à la famille, l'enfant, l'enseignement général,  l'enseignement technique, l'enseignement universitaire et supérieur, la recherche scientifique, la culture et le sport.  L'information a également bénéficié d'une attention qui a porté aussi bien sur la production d'équipement que sur  l'élaboration de programmes, et le plan tend à mettre l'accent sur la promotion des technologies de l'information  considérées comme un projet essentiel de l'étape à venir.
(27.7) Enfin, je remercie le Secrétariat pour les efforts consacrés à la préparation de la Conférence et salue en  particulier le travail de l'équipe de traduction. Je vous remercie de votre attention et vous souhaite à tous tout le  succès possible. Que la paix, la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.  IIPE/[CF/[ATEJB:  [lo3B0mbTe noômaroxapure Bac r-xa Omap, a Take mo3apasuts B Bamewm mue  Erumer, Bcro Baury  NEHETrAaIIHIO C MNOYETHbIM H30pAHHEM B KomnTeT BcemnpHOoro Hacneyns. CnoBo nmeeT Ero IIpeocxounTenbcTBO  r-H AKBECH, 3AMECTHT@JIb TIOCTOSTHHOTO NpercTaBnTers Jlemokparnaeckoñ PecnyOnnxn Koxro npu FKOHECKO.
(28) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Permettez-moi de vous remercier, Madame Omar, et de féliciter en votre personne l'Egypte et l'ensemble  de votre délégation à l'occasion de l'élection de votre pays au Comité du patrimoine mondial. Je donne la parole à  M. Akwesi, délégué permanent adjoint de la République démocratique du Congo auprès de l'UNESCO.
29.1 M. AKWESI (République démocratique du Congo) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général,  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais, avant tout, féliciter Mme Jaroslava MoserovA pour son élection  à la présidence de cette 30e session de la Conférence générale.
29.2 Monsieur le Président, l'humanité va entrer prochainement dans le troisième millénaire. Des continents,  des pays vont célébrer l'événement, les uns avec des chants de joie, les autres avec des chants de travail, mais  tous avec le sourire aux lèvres, certains que s'ouvre une ère de prospérité nouvelle, confiants en eux-mêmes, en  leur force morale, voire en leur force économique et militaire. Et puis, il y aura tous ceux pour qui le prochain  millénaire risque d'être le prolongement incolore du millénaire finissant.
29.3 La République démocratique du Congo a choisi d'entrer dans le prochain millénaire en vainqueur, en  gagnante du pari du développement, grâce notamment à son partenariat avec l'UNESCO dans les domaines des  compétences de l'Organisation. Les armes seront celles que nous allons décider de nous donner dans le cadre du  Programme et budget pour 2000-2001, à savoir l'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie, les sciences au  service du développement, le développement culturel, la société de l'information et de la communication pour  tous et, enfin, le précieux projet transdisciplinaire "Vers une culture de la paix".
29.4 Mais ce pari, nous ne le gagnerons qu'à certaines conditions. Car comment assurer l'éducation pour tous  lorsque des millions d'hommes, de femmes et d'enfants congolais demeurent toute leur vie des réfugiés en quête  d'une terre d'accueil, eux qui ont reçu en héritage de leurs ancêtres un territoire dont la superficie représente celle  de l'Europe ? Comment assurer le développement des sciences, le développement culturel, le développement tout  court lorsque le patrimoine industriel, économique et social qui constitue le tissu de la nation est  systématiquement détruit, démoli, anéanti, exproprié quand il n'est pas exporté ? Et surtout, comment promouvoir  une culture de la paix lorsque, dans le coeur des Congolais, la guerre imposée détruit les germes de la paix dont  dépend le développement durable ? Et pourtant la culture de la paix est aujourd'hui pour la République  démocratique du Congo non seulement un programme, mais un impératif. Dans ce domaine, le partenariat  République démocratique du Congo-UNESCO devra être total. Nous connaissons aujourd'hui la guerre imposée.  Nous avons décidé de nous imposer la paix, la paix intérieure.
29.5 Les Accords de Lusaka signés le 10 juillet 1999 entre toutes les parties concernées et le dialogue  national inauguré à Kinshasa voici deux semaines sont les deux instruments au moyen desquels nous entendons  mettre fin à la guerre, bâtir la paix dans notre pays et enseigner la paix aux générations futures - la paix par  l'éducation, la paix par la démocratie, la paix par la bonne gouvernance. C'est pourquoi nous appuyons aussi  l'organisation, l'an prochain au Gabon, d'une conférence dans le cadre du projet DEMOS-Afrique.
29.6 Monsieur le Président, nous apprécions et appuyons fermement les activités relatives au tourisme  culturel et leur contribution attendue au dialogue interculturel par le biais, notamment, du projet "La Route de  l'esclave”. De même, le projet sur "La Route du fer" et celui qui a trait à la "culture de la maintenance”  demeurent importants à nos yeux dans le cadre de la création d'un Institut africain du fer et de la technologie.
29.7 La République démocratique du Congo a entrepris, en partenariat avec l'UNESCO, une réflexion  globale sur son système éducatif. Des états généraux de l'éducation ont été organisés a cet effet à Kinshasa en
1991, avec la participation du Directeur général, M. Federico Mayor. Un "Projet éducation" a été mis en place  afin d'en assurer le suivi. Hélas, ce grand projet est fortement ralenti, sinon stoppé dans son exécution par la  guerre qui nous est imposée depuis le mois d'août 1998.
29.8 Par ailleurs, la République démocratique du Congo voudrait mettre en oeuvre un projet pilote  d'assistance éducative d'urgence en faveur de la fraction la plus importante des effectifs des milices ou forces  armées en conflit que sont, hélas, les enfants et les jeunes enrôlés dans des circonstances diverses, Il s'agit donc  pour l'UNESCO de nous aider à assurer la démobilisation des jeunes soldats et leur intégration dans le tissu  éducatif, économique et social. Une fois mené à bien en République démocratique du Congo et, après évaluation,  ce projet pilote doit être étendu à d'autres pays de la sous-région des Grands Lacs.
29.9 Monsieur le Président, la République démocratique du Congo coopère depuis de longues années avec  l'UNESCO pour le développement des activités relatives à la protection de l'environnement menées dans le cadre  du programme MAB (L'homme et la biosphère), dont nous souhaitons redevenir membre, aux fins de la  préservation de nos sites et réserves naturelles inscrits sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial, naguère prospères et  aujourd'hui condamnés à figurer sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial en péril du fait des effets dévastateurs de la  guerre. Nous attendons du Comité du patrimoine mondial qu'il accentue, en concertation avec nous, ses efforts  pour sauvegarder nos réserves et sites naturels gravement menacés.
29.10 La République démocratique du Congo entend poursuivre et renforcer son partenariat avec l'UNESCO  pour une promotion harmonieuse des activités culturelles et artistiques menées aux niveaux national, sous-  régional et continental. Dans ce cadre, nous nous félicitons des réflexions et orientations dégagées dans son  rapport par la Commission mondiale sur la culture et le développement présidée par M. Pérez de Cuéllar. Nous  approuvons donc l'organisation des deux principales réunions inscrites au Projet de programme et de budget, à  savoir le Forum Interrégional sur les politiques culturelles pour le développement, prévu en 2001, ainsi que les  deux réunions du Comité scientifique chargé du Rapport mondial sur la culture. Ces activités ne pourront,  pensons-nous, être mises en oeuvre avec réalisme et efficacité que dans un espace décentralisé. Les principaux  partenaires du programme "Culture et développement" ne sont-ils pas les commissions nationales, les ministères  de la culture, les universités, instituts de recherche, fondations privées et autres organismes du secteur dit  tertiaire ?
29.11 De même, nous entendons unir nos efforts à ceux de l'UNESCO en vue de la préservation et de la mise  en valeur du patrimoine culturel et naturel dans le cadre du Comité intergouvernemental pour la promotion du  retour de biens culturels à leur pays d'origine ou de leur restitution en cas d'appropriation illégale. Nous  souhaitons en effet redevenir membre de ce Comité et prendre une part active aux quatre ateliers qu'il est prévu  d'organiser sur le trafic illicite.
29.12 Monsieur le Président, la République démocratique du Congo est déterminée à poursuivre en partenariat  avec l'UNESCO la mise en oeuvre des programmes de recherche visant à améliorer la connaissance de la  fonction des écosystèmes et des services et valeurs dont ils sont la source. La forêt tropicale est pour la  République démocratique du Congo une richesse aussi considérable que le sont ses ressources minières. Ne  représente-t-elle pas 45 % de la forêt tropicale africaine, et près de 10 % de la forêt tropicale mondiale, après  l'Amazonie ? Aussi sommes-nous décidés à poursuivre avec l'UNESCO le programme de formation des  spécialistes africains de la gestion des forêts tropicales au sein de l'Ecole régionale d'aménagement intégré des  forêts tropicales (ERAIFT) financée par le PNUD, que nous remercions. Nous lançons un appel pressant aux  autres bailleurs de fonds et aux Etats africains et de l'océan Indien pour qu'ils contribuent au financement de  l'ERAIFT ou y envoient leurs étudiants préparant un diplôme de troisième cycle - DESS ou doctorat.
29.13 Monsieur le Président, les activités relatives aux ressources renouvelables, et plus spécialement le  Programme solaire mondial, revêtent une importance capitale pour le développement durable. L'énergie solaire  assurerait à coup sûr le développement durable de nos pays puisque, disponible à profusion, elle permet dans les  régions rurales inaccessibles, la diffusion de l'éducation, de l'information et de la culture, ainsi que le bien-être  sanitaire - bref, qu'elle est pour tous les citoyens gage d'égalité d'accès au bonheur individuel et collectif.
29.14 Le programme "Transformations sociales et développement" met l'accent sur les problèmes qui  constituent aussi un frein, et non des moindres, au développement de nos pays appelés pudiquement "pays les  moins avancés”, à savoir la pauvreté et les maux qui l'entretiennent inexorablement : le fardeau de la dette, la  mondialisation, l'instabilité politique créée par des guerres imposées. La République démocratique du Congo  appuie donc les activités du programme MOST et souhaite ardemment participer aux réunions consacrées aux  projets et réseaux qu'il est prévu de tenir au titre des différents thèmes de recherche.
29.15 Nous apprécions et appuyons les activités transversales relatives à l'anticipation et aux études  prospectives. Nous remercions donc le Directeur général d'avoir nommé notre compatriote le professeur Elikia  Mbokolo membre du Conseil du futur.
29.16 Monsieur le Président, le futur de l'UNESCO, que sera-t-il ? Il sera riche de pensées et d'actions à la  mesure du patrimoine que nous lègue M. Federico Mayor, notre directeur général au terme de ses douze années à  la tête de l'Organisation.
29.17 Monsieur Mayor, notre pays retiendra de vous l'image d'un Directeur général qui, par trois fois, nous a  rendu visite, qui a encouragé et consolidé notre réseau d'écoles associées et de clubs UNESCO, véritable "toile  mondiale” de l'Organisation, qui a fait de l'Afrique plus qu'une priorité de l'Organisation - une priorité de sa  pensée ; il retiendra votre brillante intelligence, votre énergie inépuisable et contagieuse, votre audace exemplaire  face à l'impossible, votre foi sincère en l'UNESCO. Nous attendons autant, sinon davantage, de M. Koichiro  Matsuura qui a été désigné pour vous succéder. Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie.
30. IIPE/[CE/[ATEJIB:  bombmoe cracnoo r-u HrobGacy. EnuHCcTBEHHOE, ŸTO xoYeTC4a moxeraTb Bameñ mHorocTparanbHoH  CTpaHe, 3TO MHpa, ero HanObIcTpeïämero MOCTHKCHHA. [locmeaHuUM Teper TIEpepbIBOM BbICTYMACT T-H  KapanbkanTy, l'eneparbHbrH cekpeTapb JlatHHCKOTO corosa.
(30) Le PRESIDENT (traduit du russe) :  Je vous remercie, Monsieur Akwesi. A votre pays qui a tant souffert on ne peut que souhaiter la paix dans  les plus brefs délais. Le dernier orateur avant la pause est M. Cavalcanti, secrétaire général de 1'Union latine.
31.1 M. CAVALCANTT (Union latine) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur  général, Messieurs les ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, nous nous trouvons, en ce moment, à  moins de deux mois de l'avènement d'un nouveau millénaire, moment fatidique selon nos ancêtres, qui avaient  craint la fin du monde lors du passage du premier au deuxième millénaire. Une telle date nous laisse aujourd'hui  indifférents quant à la survie de notre espèce ou la sauvegarde de nos âmes. Le grand fantôme de cette fin de  millénaire ou de la naissance du prochain est plutôt "Y2k", le bogue de l'an 2000. Ce cryptogramme résume de la  manière la plus synthétique la grande évolution de l'histoire de l'humanité durant ces dix derniers siècles. Ce n'est  pas la main de Dieu qui vient menacer l'humanité de destruction pour ses péchés, mais plutôt les machines créées  par l'homme qui offrent la possibilité d'altérer son destin.
31.2 Telles sont les réflexions qui me viennent à l'esprit quand je songe au rôle d'institutions comme les  nôtres, l'UNESCO et l'Union latine, et ce dans les années qui suivront la venue du nouveau siècle. Et c'est  volontairement que je choisis une mesure de temps plus accessible à notre esprit. Qui peut, en effet, résumer un  millénaire, déterminer les grandes lignes des mouvements de l'histoire sur un espace de temps aussi large ? En  revanche, nous pouvons parler du siècle, et nous pourrions même dire, comme d'aucuns l'on déjà fait, que le XXe  siècle fut un siècle court, qui commença en 1914 avec la première guerre mondiale et se termina en 1989 avec la  chute du mur de Berlin. Vaines paroles, cependant, parce que ces dix dernières années furent marquées par des  événements imprévisibles, comme le furent ceux qui précédèrent la fin du communisme soviétique.
31.3 De toute manière, force nous est de prévoir des tendances, de faire des prévisions pour pouvoir prendre  des mesures. Et que peut pressentir notre capacité de perception limitée, en ce moment, de ce que seront les  chemins qui nous attendent ? Anticiper, pour le XXIe siècle, la mondialisation totale de l'économie, et en déduire  la possibilité, sinon la probabilité, d'une mondialisation aussi politique que culturelle ? Pouvons-nous, en fait,  accepter que notre monde futur ne connaisse qu'un seul modèle économique, l'économie de marché, un seul  modèle politique, la démocratie libérale, et un seul modèle culturel, celui qui, par euphémisme, est considéré  comme "le fruit de la libre circulation des idées", mais qui, de fait, signifie une abdication face aux fournisseurs  d'idées et d'images qui possèdent une meilleure maîtrise technologique ?
31.4 Des institutions comme les nôtres n'ont pour objectif ni de réformer l'économie mondiale ni d'implanter  des modèles politiques, même si elles peuvent et doivent contribuer à rendre le progrès matériel des peuples plus  équitable et les régimes politiques plus conformes à la défense des droits de l'homme. Notre champ d'action est,  avant tout, culturel. Je suis persuadé que nous n'avons aucun doute à ce sujet, mais cela ne nous empêche pas de  nous engager dans de grands débats et de défendre parfois des positions inconciliables, sur la manière dont nous  devons agir, et les buts que nous souhaitons atteindre.
31.5 Un de ces débats les plus insidieux qui ait été entamé dans la seconde moitié de ce siècle, et qui  d'ailleurs dure toujours sans conciliation possible en apparence, oppose deux visions de la culture : d'une part,  une vision anthropologique ou ethnologique attribuant à nos institutions un rôle de simple reconnaissance passive  des usages et des coutumes des peuples qu'elles rassemblent ; d'autre part, une vision qui assimile la culture au  perfectionnement et au progrès de ces mêmes usages et coutumes, en vue d'assurer à l'homme une plus grande  capacité de dominer la nature dans l'intérêt de l'individu et de la collectivité, conférant ainsi à nos institutions une  fonction téléologique.
31.6 Derrière ces réflexions apparaît la question des identités culturelles, nationales ou régionales. Elle est  importante pour une institution comme l'Union latine, qui se propose de protéger l'identité culturelle des peuples  d'expression latine et leur intégration à un schéma de valeurs universelles que les populations d'origine latine  elles-mêmes ont contribué à bâtir. Quand nous faisons notre examen de conscience, nous pouvons conclure, à  l'instar de Carlos Fuentes, lauréat du prix de la latinité récemment institué par les Académies des lettres française  et brésilienne que "la vraie identité est à rechercher dans le métissage et la diversité des cultures”. Une telle  pensée semble évidente et elle est nouvelle. Nous voyons le monde, que l'on croyait sorti indemne des deux  grandes tragédies mondiales de ce siècle, en proie à des guerres fratricides, en raison d'une mauvaise  compréhension de ce que signifient les identités nationales. Qui sait si nous ne devrions pas orienter nos actions  vers la valorisation du pluralisme et du métissage culturel au lieu de défendre la fausse pureté d'identités  provisoires ? Soyons clairs. Quand Carlos Fuentes parle de métissage culturel, il veut dire que toute culture est  métissage. Et cela est vrai même des cultures qui paraissent le plus identifiables à un peuple ou une époque, parce  que toutes sont le résultat de plusieurs influences exercées sur un groupement humain, tout au long d'une période  de l'histoire.
31.7 Il y a quelques semaines, à Madrid, M. le Président Jacques Chirac défendait la diversité culturelle et  linguistique du monde de demain et il y voyait, pour les peuples latins, la possibilité d'apporter une vraie  contribution : "Rassemblés, hispanophones, francophones et lusophones, nous sommes près d'un milliard de  femmes et hommes dans le monde. Nous partageons un héritage, des valeurs esthétiques et morales, un  humanisme, une tolérance, une générosité. Ensemble, nous pouvons peser sur le cours des choses. En réunissant  nos énergies et nos moyens, nous pouvons contribuer à enrichir l'avenir.”
31.8 Voilà tout un programme qui est la raison même de l'existence de l'Union latine et qui décrit très bien  son objectif. L'UNESCO est investie de responsabilités plus amples, au niveau mondial. Cependant, pour nous  qui tentons d'oeuvrer en faveur d'un monde plus uni et plus pacifique, conformément au programme de  l'UNESCO, la synergie avec des institutions comme l'Union latine ne peut que donner des résultats positifs. C'est  ce qui s'est produit dans le passé. J'aimerais rendre ici un hommage particulier à mon ami Federico Mayor et le  remercier pour la bonne entente entre nos deux organisations pendant l'exercice de son mandat de directeur  général de l'UNESCO. Cette entente a été illustrée par la concrétisation de nombre de nos projets qui ont  bénéficié de l'appui moral et financier de l'UNESCO. Je suis sûr, Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués,  que ce même climat de compréhension réciproque et de coopération aux fins de projets spécifiques, tenant  compte des intérêts convergents de nos deux organisations perdurera sous la nouvelle direction à laquelle  j'adresse mes meilleurs voeux de succès.  (Ms Moserova resumes the Chair)
32. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank Señor Geraldo Cavalcanti, Secretary-General of the Latin Union, for his  presentation which had an interesting philosophical dimension. May I now call His Excellency the Honourable  Adesh Nanan, Minister of Tourism of Trinidad and Tobago. Sir, you have the floor.
33.1 Mr NANAN (Trinidad and Tobago):  Madam President, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General, representatives, ministers,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I bring you greetings from the Government and people of our twin-island  Republic led by our Prime Minister, the Honourable Basdeo Panday. Let me first congratulate you, Madam  President, on your election to such an important position, particularly as this Conference is on the cusp of a new  millennium. The second millennium, although marred by tremendous loss of life due to conflict situations and  natural disasters, has seen profound developments in education, science, the arts and communication technology.  As we welcome Micronesia and Palau, let us not forget that recent tragic event in Armenia where the Prime  Minister was killed.
33.2 As to the Director-General, he has been UNESCO’s pilot for the last twelve years and from his flight  plan, let it not be said that he was ever off course. As he passes the baton on, I am sure he does so with a smile,  confident that UNESCO is on a stable platform going into the next millennium. Congratulations on a job well  done.
33.3 As the outgoing Minister of Education and President of the National Commission, I am leaving with a  certain degree of nostalgia but I am comforted by the thought that, as Minister of Tourism, I have had the  opportunity to work closely with UNESCO to begin the processes of signing the Convention for the Protection of  the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and of establishing, if possible, a World Heritage site in my country. We  expect to participate actively in all the culture programmes applicable to the Caribbean. Also, as a factor of  cultural and tourist development, the UNESCO Slave Route project, while it reminds us sadly of that great  human tragedy, lifts the veil of secrecy to demonstrate the essential contribution which African tradition and  culture have made to our twin-island republic along with all the other cultures to be found there from the different  continents - the Arab States, Asia and Europe. We would like to strengthen our endogenous capacities through  the training of specialists in culture-related fields and would appreciate receiving support for the development of  museums and cultural tourism. A first step could be the creation of a UNESCO Chair in this field.
334 This session of the General Conference has been important for us because the Republic of Trinidad and  Tobago was able to present a candidate for election to the top post of the Organization. Our candidate has  demonstrated the highest standards that small States like ours demand and expect of their most precious resource  and we are justifiably proud. Needless to say, he was strongly endorsed by the rest of the Caribbean community.  The personal and professional standards of our human resources have been the foundation of our development.
33.5 UNESCO’s decision to include a special project on sustainable development within the Focus on the  Caribbean is welcomed. In this context, we would like to see greater focus on integrating coastal management
436   into national development and environmental plans through association with IOC and also through participation  in the International Geological Correlation Programme. Here, we would much appreciate it if UNESCO could  assist us in the establishment of a UNESCO Chair in this field. This special project presents an opportunity for  the subregion to move effectively to support and sustain the potential it possesses. As part of our commitment to  the project, through our National Commission, there will also be a travelling cultural exhibition to promote  understanding of our multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-cultural societies.
33.6 I shall now say a few words about the education revolution taking place in my country over the last three  years as a pre-requisite for a total quality nation. At all levels, there is enhanced access and quality. My colleague  from Norway in her address reminded us of the importance of the close collaboration of all agencies, particularly  at the country level. It is for this reason that we are able to fuel this Education Revolution using loans from the  World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. These loans are facilitating the construction of early  childhood care and education centres, new primary and secondary schools and the training of teachers. We are  targeting the year 2001 for achieving universal secondary education.
33.7 Computer literacy is of paramount importance in the next millennium. Our technological vision for the  medium-term is to have all our schools equipped with computer laboratories so that every child in every class can  have access to a computer. At present, the government has placed over 1,500 state-of-the-art computers in our  nation’s schools. Access to tertiary education is to be enhanced through a national community college. Our  Republic is strongly encouraging university and private sector partnerships, for example, in the petroleum sector,  our major revenue base. We are proud to mention the success of one such pilot project partnership, spearheaded  by one of our entrepreneurial women engineers. It has been said that education is the great equaliser and it is one  of the pillars in our poverty eradication drive. Our unemployment rate is down to 11.6%, the lowest in 20 years.  Our adult literacy rate is up to 98% and our female adult literacy rate to 97% - figures given in this year’s UNDP  Human Development Report.
33.8 As the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago aspires to become a total quality nation, its continuing  symbiotic relationship with UNESCO in all its fields of competence is crucial to this transformation. Madam  President, as I close, this is our vision for UNESCO for the next millennium. Be willing to open new doors to  new experiences and to step bravely forth to explore strange new horizons. Thank you.
34. The PRESIDENT:  I should like to thank His Excellency the Honourable Adesh Nanan, Minister of Tourism of Trinidad  and Tobago. You are quite rightly proud of your candidate for the high office. He is indeed greatly esteemed and  well liked. I wish your country the very best. The last speaker this morning will be His Excellency the  Honourable Viswa Warnapala, Deputy Minister of Education and Higher Education of Sri Lanka. Your  Excellency, you have the floor.
35.1 Mr WARNAPALA (Sri Lanka):  Madam President, Mr Director-General, members of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may I, at the very outset, extend my congratulations to you on behalf of my  delegation, Madam President, on your election to this office and also express my happiness to see a lady  presiding over this august assembly in the same way as Sri Lanka is led by a lady, Her Excellency President  Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga. I fully endorse the sentiments expressed by the leader of the Gambian  delegation, who wished more women leaders for Africa and more female representation in UNESCO. It is our  government's policy that gender equity should be respected and strictly enforced in all spheres of activity so that  men and women become equal partners for social and economic progress of this world. Let me also record my  appreciation of the services rendered and the initiatives taken by Mr Federico Mayor, who has brought a new  dynamism to the work of UNESCO and relentlessly promoted the culture of peace programme. Madam  President, we wholeheartedly support UNESCO’s concept for a culture of peace. I am proud to say, in this  connection, that just a few weeks ago on 14 September we in Sri Lanka declared the port city of Trincomalee in  the northern part of Sri Lanka a City of Peace. Trincomalee is a symbol of our cultural diversity and pluralism  and it retains many characteristics and cultural monuments of the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
35.2 I am also happy to state here that prior to Trincomalee being declared a City of Peace, the President of  my country introduced peace education at school level. Sri Lanka yearns for peace. It is the unreserved position  of the Sri Lanka Government that human rights are fundamental to human and social development and an  essential ingredient in the promotion of a culture of peace. We established a Human Rights Commission two  years ago which is now fully functional. Sri Lanka has consistently followed an open policy with regard to the  promotion and protection of human rights. The national and international measures that Sri Lanka has taken in  the field of human rights, Madam President, are governed by this particular policy. Sri Lanka is now a party to
14 international instruments on human rights, including the Optional Protocol of the International Covenant on
12   Civil and Political Rights. We firmly believe that dialogue is the best form of conflict resolution. To solve the  present armed conflict in the northern part of my country, our government issued a package document three years  ago offering proposals for devolution of power from the centre to the provinces and sought a dialogue and a  broad debate in the country.
35.3 Madam President, the world community has condemned terrorism in the most unequivocal terms. Yet  terrorism goes on unabated. It is therefore equally important that we all support international efforts to suppress  and deny financial support to the terrorist groups who resort to crimes including massacres of innocent men,  women and children all over the world. Madam President, terrorism is anathema to a culture of peace.
354 I welcome the Youth Manifesto 2000 signed here in our presence by children representing the whole  world, including two from Sri Lanka. The six areas that this Manifesto deals with - if we all work with  commitment - could help bring about peace and make the earth a better place to live in. Therefore, as soon as I  return home, Madam President, I shall commend this Manifesto to the Sri Lanka Parliament.
35.5 Our commitment to UNESCO?’s major programme Education for all throughout life is total and we  support the action plan and the strategies being adopted for the biennium. In this respect, I should proudly say  that Sri Lanka, despite being a developing country, has some unique achievements in the field of education in the  Asia-Pacific region. With the exception of the pre-schools, education is free from kindergarten to the university  in Sri Lanka and it has remained so throughout our 51 years of independence. I am happy to say that nearly 43%  of the pre-school age group is now enrolled and we are monitoring the pre-schools with guidance and curriculum  support. Attendance at primary level records over 95% of the children of the relevant age group. We have no  gender discrimination at all at the school level or in any other educational institution. Sri Lanka continues to  pursue vigorous policies to modernize the curriculum and teacher education and to achieve a better teacher-  student ratio in our system. We are also striving to remove the existence of regional imbalances of achievement  in education. I am proud to say that we have silently achieved a remarkable level of student participation in our  schools, applicable to all ethnic groups in all regions of the country. Our government has ensured, with assistance  from national and international organizations, the provision of better quality buildings, libraries, science  laboratories, workshops and other amenities to a large number of schools irrespective of their ethnic  environments. With great advances that we have made in the formal schooling system, we will embark shortly  also to establish an open-school or open learning system to provide a second chance for drop-outs, failures, the  disabled, housewives and minor employees of state and private sector establishments. The quality of any system  of education depends largely on the teaching cadre. Being myself a university teacher for nearly 34 years, I  honestly believe in improving the economic and social conditions of the teachers to evolve a quality education  system in my own country. Sri Lanka has provided substantial increases in salaries and also has created a Service  Commission for the Teachers; it is now in the process of reorganizing teacher education by the establishment of a  National Teacher Education Authority.
35.6 Our commitment to the promotion of learning for all throughout life and learning for the sustainable  development of our society remains total and absolute. The right to education of every Sri Lankan child, and  hopefully every adult, will be within our reach in the new millennium. In the sphere of higher education, our  government has expanded higher educational opportunities and new institutions have been established in various  regions of the country. In the matter of education, Sri Lanka wishes to share an idea with the distinguished  delegates of this conference. We have an unbroken system of education in the country with a history of nearly
2,500 years. Our country has been a centre of Buddhist education and has been in touch with numerous  universities in India like the famous Nalanda University of the ancient period. In order to cherish this tradition,  and educate our children and the general public to understand and appreciate this long history, an education  museum has been opened in the National Institute of Education. With UNESCO'”s assistance and guidance, we  wish to make this unique venture a useful institution to both students and scholars and also to expand it to a  research centre on education.
35.7 We also welcome, Madam President, the Declaration and the recommendations adopted at the World  Conference on Science in Budapest. Besides efforts to popularize science and make the study of science  accessible to everyone, the Ministry of Science and Technology is now actively engaged in the promotion of  research into indigenous science and technology. The encouragement given for the establishment of science  parks, mobile science exhibitions and seminars targeted at rural communities is expected to improve the  knowledge of science among disadvantaged sections of our communities. The publication of research findings  and the recording of available scientific knowledge in our national languages is important for reaching the  unreached. In regard to the heritage, Sri Lanka is fortunate to have inherited a rich legacy. We would appreciate  it if a major collection of old manuscripts that are now stored in ancient Buddhist temples are preserved for  posterity, recorded and studied under UNESCO’s Memory of the World programme. One of the largest and most  complex of UNESCO’s programmes in archaeological management has been the international campaign for
438   safeguarding the monuments of the cultural triangle of Sri Lanka. We look forward to the completion of the  present stage of that programme shortly and to the commencement of the next phase of the project in the new  century. It is considered a model programme in this field of specialization. Madam President, I wish to  acknowledge the assistance given to us in the Man and the Biosphere projects, in the environmental management  of coastal zones and in other specific areas such as environmental protection and short-term training programmes  for our young scientists. Madam President, we have encountered problems in adapting science and technology  for the development of our people and our economy. Our delegation to the World Conference on Science  proposed the appointment of a committee to look into science and technology disputes and abuses which  adversely affect the poor and illiterate people of the world.
35.8 Our Ministry of Cultural and Religious Affairs has recognized as its long-term vision the need to be a  partner in the creation of a just and prosperous society with a sound moral base. In our quest to translate this  vision into reality, we recognize that the preservation, promotion and propagation of culture is as essential as its  strategic thrust. We consider the preservation of our age-old cultural heritage to be one of our foremost  responsibilities. We are committed to preserving our historical and archaeological heritage and safeguarding it  from all inimical forces. There has been a major shift in our way of assisting cultural activities: it is proposed to  make substantial financial grants to artists’ guilds and foundations similar to what is available in developed  countries in the form of cultural endowments schemes.
35.9 The world is getting smaller, Madam President, as a result of the communication revolution now taking  place, and Sri Lanka cannot isolate itself from the attendant influences, especially as an island nation. Although  the rapidity of the global influence is felt more intensely in the present era, historically Sri Lanka has been  influenced by similar global trends in the formation of its own culture owing to its position as a centre of trade  and commerce. It is therefore proposed to establish next year a cultural research and training centre in order to do  research into important areas of the country’s culture. With a view to fostering understanding among our various  communities, we promote activities that integrate the cultural programmes of different communities thereby  making the entire population of the country partners in appreciating the wealth and diversity of our culture. We  also have plans to set up a comprehensive network of cultural complexes for the performing arts. The visual arts  will be added later. Plans are afoot to open cultural complexes in other provinces like the first one established in  the Southern Province.
35.10 The government of President Kumaratunga has from 1994 followed a rigorous policy of media freedom  as the cornerstone of democracy. We have extended every assistance to expanding print and electronic media in  Sri Lanka, where there are numerous radio stations and television channels and scores of newspapers and  magazines, largely in private hands. The government is fundamentally committed to the freedom of the press. We  have assiduously promoted public debate and discussion on public issues both in the state-owned and in the  privately owned electronic media. We believe that the media should act in a responsible manner in promoting  peace, tolerance and religious and cultural harmony among all of our people. After education, media is the most  powerful mode for promoting peace, democracy and development. I would like the media to take the lead in the  promotion of a culture of peace.
35.11 We are thankful to UNESCO and the IPDC for providing us with assistance to set up an information  centre and also a community radio station in a remote rural community in the up-country of Sri Lanka, a model of  which is exhibited in the foyer. The Internet and websites are becoming popular and are gaining momentum. In  other words, the information society is taking root in Sri Lanka. Recently, the President of Sri Lanka inaugurated  a programme of public discussion in which people were connected by satellite phone with her personally so that  she could answer questions from the public on any matter affecting their lives. By this initiative, our President  has shown how the electronic media can be effectively used to reach the people, feel their pulse, fight the  negligence or lethargy of officials and check corruption. With just a couple of weeks away from the dawn of the  new millennium, Madam President, a new chapter will be opened in the history of UNESCO with the  appointment of a new Director-General to UNESCO. I join with my delegation in wishing the new Director-  General success in all his endeavours to further UNESCQO’s great vision and accomplish its noble tasks. I am sure  he will be able to meet all the challenges that are certain to emerge in the next millennium. Thank you.
36.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank His Excellency, the Deputy Minister of Education and Higher Education of Sri Lanka. I hope  that the museum will play an important role in concentrating and disseminating knowledge.
36.2 We have now come to the end of our list of speakers for this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I should  like to thank all who have remained with us until this very late hour. This afternoon we shall start at 3 o’clock  sharp with item 3.2, after which we shall continue with the general debate. We shall also have the pleasure of  attending the presentation of the Gorée Memorial scale model. The meeting is adjourned.  La séance est levée à 13 h.45  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 13.45  Jaceaune 3aKkpbrBaeTes B 13.45  Il say ge Tell Tada) und,  SWF 1307454 £557