481    Dix-huitième séance plénière
1er novembre 2001 à 15 h.10  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  Eighteenth plenary meeting
1 November 2001 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Decimoctava sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   I propose that we wait five minutes to reach the quorum. Thank you.  (The meeting is suspended for five minutes)
1.2 Distinguished colleagues, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the eighteenth plenary meeting of  the General Conference. We have not finished the discussion on the substance of the Canadian amendment to New  Zealand’s proposal. I will now read out the list of speakers: Syria, Italy, Canada, Venezuela, Qatar, Zimbabwe, Saint  Lucia, Spain, Algeria and Australia. May I consider our list closed? I invite the distinguished Ambassador of the Syrian  Arab Republic to take the floor.  א ٢ א(א א  ):א א  ، א ، א.א א א א ، א:א א א א ؟ א.א ،. א א א ،.א .א א א ، א א.א ، א ، א .، א א א ، א ، א א א.א א ، א א.א ، א א א א א א ، א. א א א א אא א א א.א א א٧٦א א א א א ، א א ،.א א א א א.א  .א،
(2) Mr ESBER (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):   Mr President, I, like everyone, crave your indulgence and I am aware of the importance you attach to logic and  clarity of expression, so my question is this: how can we put into effect or adopt a decision about a subject when more than  one delegation wishes to discuss it? Voting is a means of reaching a result, not an end in itself. It is a way of saying the last  word once we have heard everyone’s opinion. The subject has in effect been raised before, but no conclusion was reached.  In international legislation, regulations change as times change. There are, for example, mistakes in translations, which  should be consistent. Earlier on, we were discussing matters of the utmost importance, chief among them terrorism, and  adopted decisions about them because there was a consensus and the time was ripe for the matters to be raised. The  question at issue now is far less important, but we have been discussing it since this morning. This means that the time is  not ripe, or perhaps that there is an unwillingness to take a decision on the matter before us, as the Ambassadors of France  and Oman and others suggested earlier. By continuing the discussion we may succeed in making further amendments to  New Zealand’s proposal and Canada’s amendment, and even the draft amendment proposed by the Executive Board.  Therefore, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, consideration of the subject  should be deferred until the next session of the General Conference. In a difficult situation, I ask my fellow Ambassadors to  support me in this. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Definitely, Mr Ambassador, we should discuss the substance and then go on to the  decision-making process. Up until now we have had a formal suggestion by the Ambassador of Japan, seconded by  Oman and supported by Syria, to defer consideration of this item to the next session of the General Conference. I now
483  give the floor to the next speaker on my list, which is already closed. Italy is the next speaker. You have the floor,  Excellency.
4. M. MORANTE (Italie) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Très rapidement, je voudrais me référer à deux interventions de ce matin  auxquelles l'Italie souscrit pour l'essentiel : celle de la France et celle du Japon. La proposition du Canada ne nous  convainc pas pour les raisons que la France a très bien exposées. Quant à la proposition du Japon, sans être certes la  solution idéale, c'est de toutes celles qui ont été avancées jusqu'ici celle qui nous paraît la plus intéressante. Il ne nous  est bien sûr juridiquement pas possible de l'adopter maintenant compte tenu des délais prescrits par l'Acte constitutif,  aussi sommes-nous favorables à ce que l'examen de ce point soit repoussé à plus tard comme l'a proposé il y a un instant  le délégué de la Syrie. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
5. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. The distinguished delegate of Canada, you have the floor.
6.1 M. CHOUINARD (Canada) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Canada souhaite apporter quelques éléments de clarification sur la portée de  sa proposition tendant à modifier l'amendement présenté par la Nouvelle-Zélande. D'une part, je rappellerai que cette  proposition du Canada a été formulée avant l'élection du Directeur général à la dernière session de la Conférence  générale et, chose plus importante, que cette modification de l'Acte constitutif, si elle est approuvée ne prendrait pas  effet pendant l'actuel mandat de six ans du Directeur général, mais seulement à la fin de son mandat, de sorte que le  directeur général actuel, s'il le souhaite, pourrait solliciter un autre mandat, qui, serait celui-là, de quatre ans, et pourrait  donc demeurer à la tête de l'Organisation pendant dix ans au total. Par la suite, le mandat du Directeur général  nouvellement élu serait de quatre ans, renouvelable pour une seconde période de quatre ans.
6.2 Je vous demanderai, Monsieur le Président, si vous le voulez bien, de faire confirmer par le Président du  Comité juridique et/ou par le Conseiller juridique de l'Organisation l'exactitude des précisions que je viens de donner.  Cela étant, si la modification du Canada à l'amendement néo-zélandais était adoptée, elle rencontrerait exactement la  recommandation du Conseil exécutif sur cette question. Pour terminer, je voudrais rappeler que certaines délégations  ont évoqué diverses autres options, notamment un mandat de six ans non renouvelable, qui n'ont cependant pas fait  l'objet de projets spécifiques d'amendement. Je pense donc que ce sur quoi nous devons nous pencher en ce moment, ce  sont les amendements présentés en bonne et due forme par la Nouvelle-Zélande et le Canada. Merci.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. Distinguished Chairperson of the Legal Committee, the Ambassador  of Canada is asking for your confirmation of the content of the amendment.
(8.1) Mr FERNÁNDEZ ILLANES (Chile), Chairperson of the Legal Committee (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. It is not really for me, as Chairperson of the Legal Committee, to give my opinion on  something not yet examined by the Committee. The Legal Adviser is, in my view, better placed than I am to decide upon  this matter. However, in any case, both proposals examined by the Committee as they are set forth in the relevant report are  completely legal. That was the conclusion of the Committee, and it is quite clear that the proposals will not be applicable to  the current term of office of the Director-General. Any other amendment presented in the future – or for that matter those  submitted for our consideration now – must follow a logical sequence: the General Conference proposes them, if it so  decides, and then refers them to the Committee for examination and a ruling on their validity.
(8.2) However, the Committee could also be asked to consider exactly when the amendment will take effect, if that is  the outcome of the consultations. Likewise, even if this point is not actually included in the amendment itself, it could be  examined nonetheless. Thank you very much, Mr President.
9. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Mr Legal Adviser, the Ambassador of Canada has asked you to confirm the accuracy of  what he has just stated.
10. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the statement which has just been made by the distinguished  representative of Canada regarding the applicability of any amendment to the Constitution affecting the duration of the  term of office of the Director-General to the present incumbent has already been confirmed by the Legal Committee in  its report to the General Conference at this session. The Legal Committee has clearly stated that any amendment  adopted relating to the duration of the term of office of the Director-General will be applied as from the next election  for Director-General. Therefore, such an amendment, if adopted at this session, would not be applied to the duration of  the term of office of the present Director-General but would apply as from the next election for Director-General. Thank  you, Mr President.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the distinguished representative of Venezuela. You have the  floor, sir.
(12.1) Mr DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. The debates this morning and this afternoon have been very lively, but  unfortunately questions of procedure have been mixed up with questions of content. I do not know how it came about, for  example, that no final decision was taken on the report by the Legal Committee. I do not wish to turn the clock back and  ask for this item to be reconsidered. But it would have been right – and consistent – for it to be placed on record that a  Committee’s report must contain the dissenting opinion, when a State requests it, since dissenting opinions can serve as  useful illustrations for plenary discussions. In institutions such as UNESCO, all opinions must be freely aired, and there is  no reason why any State should be prevented from informing the plenary of its opinion, even if it is in a minority. The  majority is not invariably right. UNESCO is an institution that specifically defends the right of minorities and so it should  never prevent minorities from expressing their opinions.
(12.2) I should like to add that a new priority item has been presented but has not been taken into consideration:  according to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, any deferment of discussion is a priority item. A  formal suggestion to defer the discussion has been submitted by Japan and supported by other States, and it should be  considered immediately, before any other item. On a point of order, I wish to draw attention to this and I should like the  matter to be cleared up once and for all, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished delegate of Venezuela. What you said is correct, what was raised by  Japan and seconded by other delegates was a point of order and we should first ask the opinion of the room on that point  of order. The reason why I am giving the floor to other delegates on the subject, though, is that they might need some  clarification before we proceed to make a decision on the motion proposed by Japan. Distinguished delegate of Qatar,  you now have the floor, sir.
(14) Mr AL-ANSARI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. With respect to New Zealand’s proposal and Canada’s proposed amendment to it  concerning the term of office of the Organization’s Director-General, the delegation of Qatar cannot support deferring a  decision until the next session for the following reasons: first, at its last session, the General Conference decided to ask the  Executive Board to examine the two proposals and submit a draft amendment on the subject to the present session of the  General Conference. The Executive Board has done so and submitted the draft amendment you have before you. Secondly,  the Executive Board’s proposal takes into account the views of Canada and New Zealand. My country’s delegation  therefore supports the Executive Board’s proposal and requests that it be adopted by this respected Conference. Thirdly,  deferring a decision until the next session would not lead to a more thorough result than the one before us now and our  postponing it would lead to its again being referred to the Executive Board, which I do not believe would arrive at a  different proposal. Since discussion of this subject began, the delegate of Lebanon has maintained that it should be  discussed on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Executive Board, which is perfectly in keeping with New Zealand’s  and Canada’s proposals. Therefore I repeat that Qatar is in favour of adopting the view of the Executive Board on this  matter. Thank you, Mr President.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I notice that the distinguished colleague from Brazil wishes to be added to the list of  speakers. Your Excellency, I closed the list a little while ago and do not intend to reopen it. I call the distinguished  delegate of Zimbabwe. You have the floor, sir.
16. Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):   Thank you Mr President, Zimbabwe would like to reiterate its position: we do not believe this matter was not  discussed thoroughly at the last General Conference; in fact it was discussed and it was that discussion which gave rise  to 30 C/Resolution 77, according to which the matter was referred to the Executive Board. Whilst we sympathize with  the concerns raised by Japan and France, we observe that both these countries are Members of the Executive Board and  that any arguments they want to present at this forum could have been dealt with in the Executive Board. They  participated in the discussion which gave rise to the recommendation which we now have in Annex IV to document
31 C/20. So this discussion we have had over and over again. Mr President, I do not believe that there are any new  arguments that can be brought to bear on this matter. Zimbabwe is therefore of the view that nothing will be gained by  postponing this decision. We should like to endorse the position taken by Qatar, that we should go ahead and decide on  the matter at this Conference. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished delegate of Saint Lucia, you have the floor.
18. Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Saint Lucia supports the Canadian amendment to the New Zealand  amendment to the Constitution. We argued our position several times, so I will not go back on all the details, but I  would want to comment on some of the things I heard this morning. I have to say, Mr President, that since the first time  we started discussing this issue two and a half years ago, we hear the same countries say that they are not ready and  need to reflect more. So, if two years and a half is not enough, how long is enough? I am sorry if the Japanese  Ambassador was not here two years ago, but Japan was here. I hear that there is a sudden interest in a six plus four  option. I wonder why those who are convinced by this option did not table an amendment six months ago, because this  is not the first time we discuss this option. And finally, Mr President, commenting on what the distinguished
486  Ambassador of France said, if a mandate of four years would weaken the function of the Director-General of UNESCO  and make the Director-General vulnerable to pressure, I think that the people of the United States of America would  have considered increasing the four years’ mandate of their President and maybe the French people would have thought  it wiser not to decrease that of theirs a year ago. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I have three more speakers on my list. Another two are asking for the floor, Brazil and  France. I think we closed the list, but they seem to be insisting. I hear a point of order. Uruguay, you have the floor.
(20.1) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, I must say that I am bewildered by the procedure being applied here. Rule 77 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference is absolutely clear and so we do not need to ask the Legal Adviser for his opinion. So  far he has spoken more than anyone else in this room and we should not subject him to the ordeal of taking the floor yet  again. Rather than ask for the opinion of the Legal Adviser, I should like to read out Rule 77, the rule that concerns us here:  “Closure of debate – A Member State or Associate Member may at any time move the closure of the debate, whether or not  any other speaker has signified his wish to take part in the discussion. If application is made for permission to speak against  the closure, it may be accorded to no more than two speakers. The President shall consult the General Conference on a  motion for closure. If the General Conference is in favour of the closure, the President shall declare the closure of the  debate. The President may limit the time to be allowed to speakers under this rule”.
(20.2) This rule was systematically ignored this morning and is being systematically ignored this afternoon. A motion  was tabled by Japan, and seconded, but no action has been taken. We have continued with the list of speakers as if nothing  had happened. This cannot continue, Mr President. Thank you.
21. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. May I ask the opinion of the Legal Adviser?
22. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Mr President, thank you very much, but the distinguished delegate of Uruguay noted earlier that I have been  speaking too much here and that I should not be given the floor any more. And maybe his words were words of  wisdom. Mr President, there are two different Rules of Procedure which apply to the adjournment of debate and to a  motion requiring that no decision be taken at the current session of the Conference on a proposal under consideration by  the Conference. To my understanding, the motion of the distinguished delegate of Japan was moved under Rule 91  because what the distinguished representative of Japan was asking for was that the proposals under consideration for the  amendment of the Constitution should not be voted upon at this session of the General Conference. So that motion was  taken under Rule 91. The representative of Uruguay is referring to Rule 77 on the closure of debate and I have not heard  any delegate asking for a closure of debate now on the substantive aspects of the amendments after he himself had  asked this morning for a closure of debate on the procedural aspects. Thank you very much, Mr President.
23. The PRESIDENT:   This was my understanding and the reason why I gave the floor to those who wanted to speak. Another three  speakers would like to take the floor: Spain, Algeria and Australia. The list of speakers is now closed. Spain, you now  have the floor.
(24.1) Mr RODRIGUEZ (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, we are addressing the substance of the issue and of the proposal. Among other arguments, there are  two considerations that in my view are essential for our discussions. The first is the duration of the term of office – or,  possibly, the two terms of office – of the Director-General; the second is the symmetry or asymmetry of the electoral  process. The first question, that of whether the term should be four, five or six years – four-four, five-five or six-six – has  its advantages and disadvantages. A four-year term would be significantly advantageous, as four years are enough to see  whether or not a Director-General’s management is acceptable to the General Conference and the Executive Board. In other  words, it is a proper length of time for us to be able to assess that, while eight years are more than enough for the Director- General to leave his mark on the Organization. Furthermore, this is a widespread trend, as has been mentioned by several  earlier speakers, in other, similar bodies. However, this subject has been discussed enough. On the second point, that of the  symmetry or asymmetry of the electoral process and its impact on the life of the Organization, little has been said.
(24.2) In fact, whether we opt for four-four, five-five or six-six makes little difference. In a symmetrical process, for the  first and second terms, it is obvious that all candidates, including the outgoing Director-General – should he or she wish to  stand – are on an equal footing. In other words, they are nominated by a Member State and the term of office is the same  for all candidates. In an asymmetrical electoral process, it is different. One candidate, the outgoing Director-General, is  presented by a Member State, like the others, and in this sense he or she is in a position of equality with the other
488  candidates. However, he or she opts for a four-year term, whereas all of the other candidates might opt for a six-year term  or whatever suits them. Under a six-four solution, if he or she stands again, the outgoing Director-General would opt for  four years, whereas all of the other candidates could or would opt for six.
(24.3) This presents two possibilities, neither of them satisfactory for the Organization. The first would mean that,  although there would be a single electoral process for everyone if the outgoing Director-General was elected, it would be  for a four-year term, whereas if another candidate was elected, it would be for six years; that would inevitably create  considerable imbalances. The second approach, the one that, it seems to me, most of those who have already spoken have  in mind, means that if, at the end of a first term, a Director-General wished to continue in the post, he or she would stand  for re-election and, if successful, no more elections would be needed; if he or she were not elected, an election with all the  other candidates would then have to take place. It could not be excluded that the candidate in the first election, namely, the  outgoing Director-General, would stand in the second election. There are so many difficulties posed, in my view, by what I  call the asymmetrical electoral process, that I wish to point out the knock-on effects they would have on the day-to-day life  of this Organization for some considerable time.
(24.4) For all of these reasons, my delegation thinks that the four-four model, that proposed in the amendment of the  representative of Canada, is a good one. That does not mean that we should not have a discussion about whether or not it is  suitable. The question is whether we discuss it and reach a decision at this 31st session of the General Conference or wait  until the next session. Despite some of the arguments put forward, I think that the conditions for reaching a decision at this  session of the General Conference are much freer than they would be at the 32nd session. After all, this debate began  before the arrival of the present Director-General and he was not even a candidate when discussions began and when  people began to suggest making changes to the Constitution. In other words, he is not involved in any way and, it cannot be  said therefore that, at this moment in time, anyone is trying to assess the work of the Director-General, or that anyone is  trying to tie the vote to that assessment, because that would be unreasonable. However, if we wait until the 32nd session of  the General Conference, by which time the Director-General will have been here for four years, how can the two questions  be kept separate? I think that this is an additional difficulty, contrary to the argument set out earlier. That is why I wished to  present these arguments. I think that this is a relevant issue to be considered along with the other arguments for both sides.  In any case, there is no perfect solution for the duration of the term of office, for the sessions of the General Conference, or  for a specific electoral process. Thank you very much.
(26) Mr SAMET (Algeria) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. With respect to the subject under discussion since this morning, New Zealand’s  proposal and Canada’s amendment on the Director-General’s term of office, I note that there are many different opinions.  Algeria considers it preferable to devote more time to considering the matter thoroughly and will therefore join its vote to  those of the Syrian Arab Republic and some other Member States, and supports the proposal to defer examination of the  matter and include it in the agenda of the 32nd session of the General Conference, God willing. Thank you, Mr President.
27. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I see the distinguished delegate of Benin asking for the floor. Sir, as I mentioned before,  the list of speakers is closed and two delegates asked for the floor before you. I apologize, sir, the list is closed.  Distinguished delegate of Australia, you now have the floor.
28.1 Mr PEEK (Australia):   Thank you, Mr President. One of the problems about being the last speaker in a substantive debate is that  others have said all the things that I was planning to say in one form or another. So let me be very brief. New Zealand, I  thought, earlier in the debate, presented a careful, factual explanation of the background and of the substance to this  proposal. Let me make it quite clear that my delegation is firmly against postponement. There has been an exhaustive  discussion of this issue over two and a half years – including in the Executive Board – and, Mr President, let me say  that, like others, I find it curious, to say the least, that several speakers who have been against the Canadian proposal  today were and are in fact Members of the Executive Board, and in that sense a party to a consensual recommendation  by the Board. The timing of this decision at this Conference is such as to ensure – in a way that we cannot do at any  other Conference – that there is no connection being made with an individual Director-General. Like others, and I am
489  confident, indeed, all others in this room, Australia strongly supports the Director-General and the work he is doing, and  it is for this reason that we want this process of modernization to continue in this way.
28.2 Mr President, speaking of modernization, one of the speakers in this morning’s debate mentioned that the  Director-General needed to have time to complete the modernization process. I must say I could not but agree with this.  It is absolutely essential that he be given time. But, as has been explained by many speakers, the Canadian amendment  to the New Zealand text, if adopted, would give this Director-General ten years to complete that modernization process.  And quite frankly, Mr President, if this Organization takes more than ten years to get the fundamentals of a new  approach and a modern UNESCO into place then we have problems.
28.3 Mr President, one of the points that was raised and has not really been addressed was the suggestion that the  electoral process is disruptive to the work of the Organization and indeed to the Director-General, if he or she chooses  to campaign. I really cannot dispute this point but an observation needs to be made. First of all, if the Director-General   – any Director-General, I am not talking about the present one – decides to stand for re-election, he or she will be to a  certain extent disrupted in his or her work by that process whether or not this process of re-election takes place after  four, five or six years. Secondly, in the case of a second term, the Director-General will not be disrupted because he or  she will not be standing.
28.4 Mr President, let me finish on a slightly poetic note in tone with your own style. I was intrigued by the analogy  made by our colleague from Syria this morning about the tree and, like him, but perhaps not quite like him, I am a  frustrated farmer and I think the tree image is a very good one. But what we have to do is to see the tree as UNESCO,  and UNESCO has been planted for fifty years. The farmer is not only the Director-General but the entire Conference,  the entire governance structure of the Organization, and that structure – the farmers if you like – can change a little  more frequently. Thank you very much.
29. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. We have reached the end of our list of speakers on this topic. I will now once more read  the motion formally proposed by Japan, seconded by some delegates, to the effect that we should not decide about the  issue at this session of the General Conference but postpone consideration of it to the next one. I hope I have stated  correctly the proposal made by Japan, on which I shall ask the plenary to vote. Is it correct?
31. The PRESIDENT:   I call the delegate of Brazil. Do you wish to speak about the issue? Because the list is closed. You have the  floor, sir.
32. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   I asked for the floor to support the Japanese proposal. You may wish to consult the Legal Adviser on that.
33. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Viet Nam, do you have a point of order?
34. Mr PHAM Sanh Chau (Viet Nam):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, under Rule 72 I do not see that you have the right to close the list  without the consent of the General Conference. Mr President, I think this is a very important issue. Everybody needs to  have the right to speak and express their views. By closing the list I do not think this is the case. In any case, if you want  to close the list of speakers you need to have the endorsement of the General Conference. And I think there are many  other countries that would like to speak. Secondly, in terms of procedure, Mr President, we have the motion of Japan,  and according to Rule 78 the motion of Japan should be voted on immediately, before we move to the list of speakers,  which cannot be closed. Thank you, Mr President.
35. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. My understanding was not that. I will ask the Legal Adviser whether I have the right to  close the list of speakers or not. If I do not have this right I will open it for the whole day. Secondly, I think it is clear  that I could give the floor to those who want to speak about the substance even after a motion has been put forward.  Legal Adviser, we need your advice.
36.1 The LEGAL ADVISER:   Mr President, I think that we could first of all try to establish the facts relating to this issue. Before adjourning  the meeting at 1.30 p.m., if my recollection is correct, you informed the plenary that your intention was to close the list  of the speakers and you asked if there were any other delegations that wanted to be on that list. You took note of some
490  delegations that wished to join the list before you closed it but I believe that your intention and your action both clearly  indicated that you wanted to have the consent of the plenary. Since you did not see any objections, you took it that the  plenary consented to the closure of the list of the speakers. If those were the facts as I understand them, then it is within  your right to close the list of speakers but, Mr President, that does not also prevent you from having some measure and  degree of flexibility and allowing certain delegations to take the floor if they so insist. But that decision is, of course,  yours. Thank you Mr President.
36.2 With respect to the second point raised by the distinguished representative of Viet Nam, I have already  explained the difference between a motion requiring that no decision be taken on a proposal, which is dealt with in  Rule 91, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure and a motion to adjourn a debate or a meeting. I think that the  distinguished delegate of Viet Nam interpreted the motion made this morning by the distinguished representative of  Japan as a motion to adjourn the debate or to adjourn the meeting, but that, I think, was not the nature of that motion.  The motion of Japan is to defer a decision on the proposal until the next session of the General Conference. Thank you,  Mr President.
37. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I agree with the distinguished delegate of Viet Nam that the issue is very important. If  there is no objection I can give the floor to one, two or three others who would like to speak. If there is no objection,  therefore, I give the floor to Ambassador Stanton.
38.  Mr STANTON (United Kingdom):   Sir, I am ready to respect the decision of this meeting to close the list. But if the list is going to be re-opened, I  would like to speak. Thank you, sir.
39. The PRESIDENT:   I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Finland.
40. Ms MICKWITZ (Finland):   Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief.
41. The PRESIDENT:    Excuse me, Madam. Do you want to speak or do you want to give your opinion about whether to open the list  of speakers or not?
42. Ms MICKWITZ (Finland):   I wanted to be added to the list of speakers to speak about the substance.
43. The PRESIDENT:   In that case, if there is no objection, I open the list for the other four delegates who have asked for the floor. I  hear a point of order from Uruguay.
(44) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, I quite clearly raised a point of order under Rule 77. I wish to make it clear that it was under  Rule 77, to move the closure of the debate.
45. The PRESIDENT:   Yes, thank you. Is there anyone against the proposal of Uruguay?
46. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   A point of order, Mr President, which has still not been replied to by you and which I raised earlier.
47. The PRESIDENT:   I am sorry. Kindly repeat it.
48. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   The point is that the proposal of Japan was going to be put to vote and, to go by traditional practice in any  parliament, the floor is always given to one delegate to speak in favour of it and one to speak against it. I had asked for  the floor to speak in favour of it, but no reply has been given to that question. Maybe I am rather rusty, as it has been  some years since I left UNESCO, but now I am back. Perhaps the Legal Adviser could clarify the situation, but that has  always been the tradition in any parliament anywhere in the world.
49. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. After the Japanese motion I gave the floor to many countries that wanted to speak  and many of them supported it, including Oman and Syria and others, so I did not prevent anyone from supporting it.  And some delegates also spoke against it. Yes, please.
50. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   That is not the question; the question is that, after you have put a proposal to a vote, and before the vote is  actually taken, any two speakers can ask for the floor, one to speak in favour of it and one to speak against it. That is a  different question.
51.1 The PRESIDENT:   Your point is taken, sir.
51.2 I give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference to explain some points.
52. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je vais relayer le Conseiller juridique pour rappeler, comme il l'a fait tout à  l'heure, que la proposition du Japon était présentée en application de l'article 91, alinéa 2 du Règlement intérieur, qui dit  qu'une motion demandant à la Conférence de ne pas se prononcer sur une proposition a priorité sur cette proposition.  Cet article se situe en dehors de la série d'articles qui concernent les motions de procédure et, à la différence des articles  de cette série, ne fixe aucune condition quant au nombre d'orateurs qui peuvent prendre la parole pour ou contre la  motion. L'article qu'a évoqué le délégué de l'Uruguay est l'article 77 : Clôture du débat aux termes duquel un Etat  membre peut à tout moment proposer la clôture du débat, qu'il y ait ou non des orateurs inscrits. Dans ce cas, mais non  pas dans le cas de l'article 91, si la parole est demandée contre la clôture, elle est accordée à deux orateurs au plus. Cela  fait, la Conférence doit bien entendu se prononcer sur la motion. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
53. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. There was a suggestion to close the debate about this issue by Uruguay. Are there any  objections? I give the floor to Benin.
54. M. YAÏ (Bénin) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Bénin est contre la proposition de l'Uruguay tendant à la clôture du débat,  parce que selon nous il s'agit d'apporter de profondes modifications à l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation. Nous qui  défendons le droit à la liberté d'expression de par le monde, comment pourrions-nous clore le débat sur un problème  aussi important, alors que beaucoup de délégués ont des choses à dire et que le débat qui a été ouvert tout à l'heure sur  le fond a prouvé qu'il y a plusieurs solutions possibles. Je suggère donc, à la suite du Viet Nam, que puisse s'exprimer  quiconque désire prendre la parole sur le fond. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
55. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Viet Nam.
56. M. PHAM Sanh Chau (Viet Nam) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Viet Nam appuie la proposition du Bénin. Conformément à l'Article 77, du  Règlement intérieur, comme deux personnes se sont exprimées pour se déclarer contre la proposition de l'Uruguay, le  débat peut continuer.
57.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. As two people have spoken since the motion for closure of the debate, I now ask you to  vote on whether to close the debate, as suggested by Uruguay, or not. Will those in favour of closing the debate please  raise their nameplates. May I now ask those who are against closing the debate on this issue to raise their nameplates  please. And now, will those who wish to abstain please raise your nameplates. Those who abstain, could you raise your  nameplates.
57.2 The result of the vote is as follows: 67 were in favour of closing the debate, 22 against, and there were 18  abstentions. The debate on this issue is therefore closed. I see a point of order from Brazil. Ambassador, you have the  floor.
58. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   The distinguished delegate of Viet Nam has brought to your attention the fact that the delegate of Uruguay  asked for the closure of the debate and he cited his position, which was that, if two Members were against the closure of  the debate, then it could not be closed and, as I recall it, and everybody recalls it, both Viet Nam and Benin have  advanced the opinion that the debate should not be closed, so I think the last vote is illegal.
59. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. There is a good spirit here, turning our plenary into a class of law. May I  ask the Legal Adviser whether that vote was legal or illegal?
60. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Mr President, thank you. I think, as I said this morning, that we are in today for a very interesting and exciting  debate. Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that a Member State may at any time move the closure of the  debate, whether or not other speakers have signified their wish to speak and take part in the discussion. If other  delegations wish to speak against that motion, that is the procedural motion, the President may accord the right to speak  to no more than two speakers. After those two speakers, the President will consult the General Conference, and ask the  General Conference to pronounce itself on the procedural motion which was the closure of debate. So the President has  to consult the Conference before deciding one way or the other, whether the debate should be closed or whether the  debate should be continued. That is what you have done, Mr President, and I do not think there was anything illegal  about that; and I believe that the majority has now decided that the debate should be closed. Thank you.
61.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Am I forgiven, Ambassador? Thank you. We therefore close our debate on the motion  proposed by Japan. Now I suggest that the plenary vote on that motion. The motion, I repeat, is that we do not decide at  this session of the General Conference about the item under discussion but postpone it to the next General Conference.  May I now ask those Member States that are in favour of this proposal by Japan, starting with those who are sitting on  my left-hand side, to raise their nameplates. Thank you, I now ask those who are sitting in the middle part of the room  to raise their nameplates if they are in favour of the Japanese motion. Thank you. Now I invite those on the right-hand  side of the room to raise their nameplates if they wish to support Japan. Thank you. I now request those sitting in the  section on my left-hand side to raise their nameplates if they are against the Japanese proposal. Thank you. I now  request those in the middle part of the room who are against the proposal to raise their nameplates. Thank you, and now  those on the right side of the room who are against. Thank you very much. I turn now to abstentions. Those on the left  side of the room, please raise your nameplates. Thank you. Now those in the middle section. Thank you. Now those in  the right-hand section who wish to abstain. Thank you very much.
61.2 The results of the voting are as follows: those in favour of the proposal by Japan: 16; those against: 75;  abstentions: 21. Accordingly, the matter will not be postponed to the next General Conference.
(62) Ms DESPRADEL (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. On several occasions I tried to attract your attention, but your handsome  gaze did not rest on me. If I am not mistaken, I think that when I left this room at midday we were taking a vote, a vote  which was interrupted. What happened next led a distinguished ambassador from my part of the world to call this  “Fantasyland” and another to call it Macondo. I therefore suggest that we go back to where we were before and, in  accordance with the opinions of those two eminent lawyers, the Chairperson of the Legal Committee and our dear friend  the Legal Adviser – who is both competent and patient – let us begin to apply the procedure that they suggested in several  languages and in those sweet accents that I so admire. In their place I would have said something less polite. Thank you  very much, Mr President.
63. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. I am very sorry that I did not notice you. I think that it is perhaps your fault – if  I may be presumptuous – that you hide your beautiful eyes behind those dark glasses. I call our distinguished colleague  from Viet Nam.
64. Mr PHAM Sanh Chau (Viet Nam):   Thank you, Mr President. I wish to give an explanation of vote, Mr President. My delegation did not vote  against or for the motion because we believe that if this important discussion were postponed to the next session of the  General Conference, it would take two more years, which would be too long. But we did not vote for the motion  because we think that if we proceeded immediately to a vote, we would not have the opportunity to listen to the views  of other people. So we abstained. Thank you, Mr President.
65. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you for your wisdom. Saint Lucia, please.
66. Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):   Mr President, I would like to second the motion presented by the Dominican Republic. Thank you.
(68) Mr QUBILAT (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. Like you, I have listened attentively to this good-natured, detailed debate, which has  exercised our minds for a considerable time. If the Japanese Ambassador’s proposal were adopted, the situation would  accord with the words of Almighty God: “Take counsel with them in the conduct of affairs; and when you are resolved, put  your trust in God”. The discussion is over and a great many delegates have been heard. Therefore, respecting the proposal  and amendment submitted by the delegates of New Zealand and Canada and the Executive Board’s examination of the two  proposals prior to submitting its draft amendment to the General Conference, my country’s delegation is of the opinion that  the General Conference should adopt this proposal and that there should be a vote on a four-year term, renewable for a  further four years. In view of the reforms being undertaken by the present Director-General, his term of office is outside the  scope of the proposal, which would apply to subsequent Directors-General. If the Director-General were successful and  achieved his objectives during the first four years, the General Conference and Member States would re-elect him for a  second term of office. Eight years would thus suffice to reach the objectives. Thank you.
69. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Yes, before I give the floor to Qatar, I would like to remind distinguished colleagues  that we are now proceeding to decide about the Canadian amendment. Before I ask you to vote on it, distinguished  colleagues may express their opinions. Qatar, you have the floor.  א ٧٠  ):(א א  א.א، ، א א א א א א א א א א א.א  .א،
(70) Mr AL-ANSARI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. Since the Executive Board’s proposal takes into account both opinions, I support what  the delegate of Jordan has proposed concerning consideration of the Executive Board’s proposal. Thank you, Mr President.
(72) Mr AL-ANSARI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):   Mr President, this morning and this afternoon we heard the Legal Adviser’s opinion that we must first take a  decision on New Zealand’s proposal and then on Canada’s. I explained earlier that the Executive Board’s proposal took  into account both opinions. The decision of the General Conference on this matter was clear and both proposals were  referred to the Executive Board, which then submitted a draft amendment. It is my opinion that we should vote on or  consider this draft amendment, as the delegate of Jordan has proposed. Thank you.
73. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, dear friend, but it was explained many times that, in order to decide about the  recommendation of the Board, the procedure is that first we should decide about the Canadian amendment because the  content of the recommendation of the Board is the New Zealand proposal amended by Canada. Therefore, in order to  define that content, we should start with the Canadian amendment to the New Zealand proposal, and then we will  clearly have the content of the Executive Board’s recommendation. Gambia has the floor.
74. Ms NDONG-JATTA (Gambia):   Thank you very much, Mr President, I believe you have it right and let us not reopen the debate. Let us  proceed. Thank you.
75. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. I give the floor to Finland.
76. Ms MICKWITZ (Finland):   Thank you, Mr President. We support the proposal of Jordan, and hope we can proceed to a vote on the  Canadian proposal as soon as possible.
77. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. Zimbabwe has the floor.
78. Mr MAMBO (Zimbabwe):   Mr President, can we vote now please?
79. The PRESIDENT:   Uruguay has the floor.
(80) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   I wholeheartedly support the last proposal from Zimbabwe. Let us vote, please.
(82) Mr ESBER (Syrian Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):   I do not want to speak for long, Mr President. I simply wish to say that my country would agree with the proposal  if the first term of office were five years rather than four. I should like the delegates of New Zealand and Canada to agree  that the appointment should be for five years, renewable for a further four. The justification for this is very simple since the  Director-General’s first year at UNESCO will be spent familiarizing himself with the Organization. Thank you.
83. The PRESIDENT:   Let me first be clear. There is a proposal from Syria. What should we do? Saint Lucia has raised a point of  order.
84. Ms LACOEUILHE (Saint Lucia):   Forgive me, Mr President. I did not want to interrupt you but, according to our Rules, you should have started  the vote immediately after I seconded the Dominican Republic. When someone calls for a vote and it is seconded, the  vote should start. Moreover, we cannot even discuss the Syrian proposal because such an amendment should have been  tabled six months ago. Thank you.
85. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. First, let us consider this point of order. According to Saint Lucia, we should start  voting. I think, Madam, that is what I understood from Zimbabwe and others. I had said that we were going to proceed  to take a decision and that anybody could speak about substance, but some countries, including Zimbabwe and  Uruguay, asked that a vote be taken. This is not a separate proposal. If it is, I shall ask the Legal Adviser’s opinion  about the point of order.
86. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Mr President, it is normally the President who rules on points of order, because points of order are raised for a  decision of the President. I will definitely try to help you as much as I can. We debated first of all this morning the  procedural aspects, and there was a procedural motion to close that debate. That debate was closed. Then we moved to a  debate on the substantive aspects. There was a procedural motion to close that debate also. That debate also was closed.  Just now several delegations have asked that we should proceed to a vote on the proposals which are on the table. Rule
87 is quite clear: if there is a request for a vote then a vote will be taken, and I believe, Mr President, that a vote should  be taken. That is my view.
87. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Uruguay has the floor.
(88) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. After you ended the vote on the Japanese proposal, I distinctly remember that the  Dominican Republic tabled a motion for a vote, seconded by Saint Lucia and subsequently by several other States. In other  words, we have on the table a motion for a vote that came after the amendment proposed by Japan to postpone the vote  until the next Conference session. I think we have no other course now but to vote. Thank you.
89. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. This is another topic. I was discussing the matter of closing the debate on the substance.  This is another topic and there is a new motion by the Dominican Republic, supported by two speakers, to put this to a  vote. Okay. Germany has the floor on a point of order.
90. Mr SCHÖFTHALER (Germany):   Thank you, Mr President. Maybe it would help if Germany requests now, formally, to close the debate and to  proceed to a vote in the hope that this will be seconded.
91. The PRESIDENT:   I hear that the proposal by Germany has been seconded by two speakers. Is there any opposition to closing the  debate? The Russian Federation has the floor.
(92) Mr SIDOROV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):   Thank you. I have no objections, Mr President, but I do have a question. Here is Mr Matsuura sitting here in this  room before us. Will he be favouring us with his leadership for six years or for four years? Please explain this to me as I  have been quite confused about this all day. And then how long will he be leading us if all goes well? Explain this to me  with the help of legal or any other arguments. Thank you.
93.1 The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished Ambassador, I think it is very clear that anything we approve here will not have any effect on  the current term of office but for the next term of his office he will be like the other candidates. Is that clear? Thank you  very much. As there is no objection to closure of the debate, I now close the debate pursuant to the proposal by  Germany.
93.2 We shall now proceed to vote. May I ask those Member States who are in favour of the Canadian proposal,  starting by those Member States placed in the section of the room on my left-hand side. Please raise your nameplates.  Thank you very much. Now the central section of the room, can those who are in favour of the Canadian amendment  please raise their nameplates. Thank you very much. Now Member States in the section on my right-hand side, could  you please raise your plates if you are in favour. Thank you. I return to the left-hand side to ask those who are against to  please raise your nameplates. Now in the central section, anyone who is against the Canadian proposal. Thank you.  Now for the right-hand section of the room, anyone against the Canadian proposal. Then why are we voting? Thank you  very much. Abstentions? Those on my right-hand side please. Central section, abstentions? Now for abstentions in the  left-hand section of the room.
93.3 Thank you very much. I shall now announce the results: those in favour of the Canadian proposal: 95; those  against: none; abstentions: 28. The Canadian amendment to the New Zealand proposal is adopted. Thank you.
93.4 I see that France has asked for the floor. You have the floor, sir.
94. M. MUSITELLI (France) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Ce n'est pas pour une explication de vote que je demande à prendre la  parole mais, si vous m'y autorisez, pour faire, en application de l'article 73 qui concerne le droit de réponse, une très  rapide intervention, maintenant que le débat est clos.
95. The PRESIDENT:   In my opinion there is no problem.
96. M. MUSITELLI (France) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Votre opinion prévaut en toute chose, donc je vous fais entièrement confiance.  Je voulais simplement demander l'inscription au procès-verbal d'une rectification à propos d'une présentation erronée  qui a été faite de la manière dont la recommandation du Conseil exécutif a été adoptée. J'ai en effet entendu deux  délégués s'étonner qu'un certain nombre d'Etats membres du Conseil exécutif, dont la France, puissent s'être dissociés  d'une décision qui avait été prise, selon les paroles de M. le délégué de l'Australie, par consensus. A ce sujet je voudrais  préciser que cette décision a été prise au Conseil exécutif par un vote, à la majorité, et non pas par consensus et il n'est  pas illégitime à mon sens que les Etats membres qui avaient alors émis une opinion minoritaire, aient la possibilité de  l'exprimer de nouveau devant la Conférence générale. Je pense que M. le Président de la Commission du programme et  des relations extérieures, qui doit être dans cette salle, M. Nachabé, pourra témoigner qu'effectivement il en a bien été  ainsi, de même que Mme la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, qui se trouve avec nous. Je souhaiterais donc que ce point  soit rectifié afin que ne figure pas dans le procès-verbal une indication factuelle erronée.
97. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Australia please.
98. Mr PEEK (Australia):   Mr President, I would like to offer my sincere regret to my colleague the Ambassador of France. I was misled,  I hasten to say, by the fact that there was no reference to the vote in Annex V of document 31 C/20, but I am absolutely  certain it is not necessary to check with the Secretary of the Executive Board or anyone else. The Ambassador’s word is  good. Thank you.
99. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished colleague from Viet Nam, you have the floor.
100. Mr PHAM Sanh Chau (Viet Nam):   Thank you, Mr President. Please let me explain our vote. My delegation did not vote against the proposal put  forward by Canada because we share the view that a mandate of six years is too long. We did not vote for that proposal  either, Mr President, because we do not think that a four-year renewable term is the best solution. Since there is nothing  in between which we believe betters the proposal put forward by Canada we abstained from voting. Thank you,  Mr President.
101. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Venezuela, you have the floor, sir.
(102) Mr DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to say that my country voted neither for nor against, but  abstained. Not for reasons of substance since, as I said before, our country shares the idea contained in the proposal by  Canada, but simply because we believe that constitutional rules and strict regulations were not observed. Thank you very  much.
(104) Mr AL-ANSARI (Qatar) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. Qatar voted for the proposal because it is satisfied that this period (four years, followed  by a further four years) is sufficient. I should, however, like to return to one point: when the delegate of Lebanon proposed  that we vote on the Executive Board’s proposal, the Legal Adviser told us we had to deal with New Zealand’s proposal first,  then Canada’s amendment, then the Executive Board’s proposal. You, however, Mr President, grasped the nettle in the  middle by beginning with Canada’s amendment. I agree with this decision which, moreover, is not incompatible with the  Executive Board’s proposal. Thank you.
105. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. India has the floor.
106. Madam SABHARWAL (India):   Thank you very much, Mr President. We, too, have asked for the floor, first to associate ourselves fully with  the remarks by the Ambassador of France, and I am very grateful to him for having been more punctilious than people  like ourselves, but we do fully support his recollection and we have since then had the benefit of the acknowledgement  by the Ambassador of Australia that it was indeed a decision adopted by vote. India had also abstained in the matter  and, for reasons which my colleague from Viet Nam has just mentioned in his intervention explaining Viet Nam’s  abstention even in the present vote, we associate ourselves fully with his remarks. Thank you very much.
107. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other speakers? Benin, has the floor.
108. M. YAÏ (Bénin) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Bénin s'incline devant la décision de la majorité, mais souhaiterait expliquer  son vote. Nous ne sommes pas certains que la décision prise aille dans le sens de la sagesse. Nous ne voudrions pas que  l'UNESCO soit victime des circonstances et de la gestion d'années récentes. C'est pourquoi nous aurions aimé que l'on  se donne plus de temps pour réfléchir à cette question qui implique une modification de l'Acte constitutif. D'autre part,  je souhaiterais que le Conseiller juridique nous confirme qu'il a bien été satisfait à la règle prescrivant une majorité des  deux tiers. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
109.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I think this question was answered in the morning. We have not yet amended our  Constitution. For that we need a majority of two-thirds. This vote concerned the adoption of the amendment of Canada  to the proposal by New Zealand, for which a simple majority is enough. Up to now our Constitution is still untouched.  Before I continue with our procedure I would like to ask distinguished colleagues not to open discussion about legal  points and other matters which we have already discussed in detail. We have now before us a proposal for the  amendment of Article VI, paragraph 2, of our Constitution, submitted by New Zealand and amended by Canada. I  should like to recall that the recommendation on this matter formulated by the Executive Board in 160 EX/Decision
10.1 contains exactly the same wording as the proposal which is before us. Since the General Conference is required to
498  adopt a resolution in this regard, I should like to put forward for approval by the General Conference the following  decision. This is the decision that will amend the Constitution.   “The General Conference,
1. Having examined document 31C/20 and taken note of the sixth report of the Legal Committee  (documents 31 C/76 and Add. and Corr.),
2. Decides to replace the text in paragraph 2, Article VI, of the Constitution by the following text:    ‘The Director-General shall be nominated by the Executive Board and appointed by the General  Conference for a period of four years under such conditions as the Conference may approve. The  Director-General may be appointed for a further period of four years but shall not be eligible for  reappointment to a subsequent term. The Director-General shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of  the Organization.’”
109.2 We shall now proceed to vote on this draft resolution if there is no one who wishes to take the floor. Australia,  you have the floor.
110. Mr PEEK (Australia):   Mr President, just a request for clarification. This decision, as I understand it, requires a two-thirds majority.  The two-thirds majority is, I think, made up of two-thirds of those present and voting. Do those present and voting  include those who abstain because, if that is the case, in effect an abstention will amount to a negative vote. Thank you.
111. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I call the Legal Adviser.
112. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Very briefly Mr President. No, it does not include those who abstain. Thank you.
113. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other intervention? I see that Kenya wishes to speak. Madam, you have the floor.
114. Ms WAFULA (Kenya):   Mr President, in view of the questions that have been asked about when this will take effect, maybe it is  necessary to clarify when these changes will actually take effect, to avoid any doubt.
115. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. I think it is there. It is in the decision we made. May I ask the Legal Adviser to clarify  that?
116. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Mr President, amendments to the Constitution adopted by the General Conference are effective immediately  unless they require ratification by the Member States because of the additional obligations which they imply for the  Member States. The Legal Committee has made it very clear that this amendment does not imply any additional  obligations. Therefore, this amendment does not require ratification by Member States, which means that this  amendment will enter into force immediately after its adoption by the General Conference. That does not mean,  however, that this amendment is retroactive, in the sense that it would apply to the incumbent Director-General.  Therefore it would apply only for the election of the next Director-General. Thank you, Mr President.
117.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other comments? I see none.
117.2 We shall now proceed to vote. We are voting now on this draft resolution. As you all know, according to  Article XIII, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and to Rule 85, paragraph 1 (e), of our Rules of Procedure, a two-thirds  majority of the Members present and voting is required. I shall now ask those Member States who are in favour of the  proposed amendment to the Constitution, starting with those Member States placed on my left-hand side, to raise their  nameplates. Thank you very much. Now could those in the central section who are in favour please raise their  nameplates. Thank you. And now those in favour in the right-hand section of the room. Thank you very much. Would  those Member States in the left section who wish to vote against now please raise their nameplates. Brave India. And  now the central section. And the right side of the room. Thank you. Now for abstentions. The left side of the room  please. And the central section. And now the right side of the room. Thank you.
117.3 I now give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference to read the results.
118. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nombre de voix en faveur de l'amendement : 102. Nombre de voix contre : 1.  Nombre d'abstentions : 17. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
119.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. The amendment to the Constitution is therefore adopted.
119.2 I was looking at the representative of the Dominican Republic after this excitement, to see if she would take off  her dark glasses, but no, she has not, she refuses. I see Iran asking for the floor. You have the floor, sir.
120. Mr SAFAEI (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Thank you, Mr President, this is an explanation of vote after the vote. My delegation abstained during the  process of deciding on the amendment to Article VI, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, not because of our objection to  the content of this proposal, but because we believe that the formula of six plus four is more fitted to the particular  situation of an organization like UNESCO that deals with cultural, educational and scientific policies which normally  necessitate long-term planning and implementation. Thank you, Mr President.
121. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other comment? Yes, Haiti, you have the floor, sir.
122. M. CHARLES (Haïti) :   Monsieur le Président, Haïti s'est abstenu, tout simplement parce qu'il n'a pas été convaincu de la proposition  qui a été faite. Merci.
123. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. Benin, you have the floor, sir.
124. M. YAÏ (Bénin) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Bénin s'est abstenu parce que, comme je l'ai déjà dit, mais un peu trop tôt,  nous ne sommes pas convaincus que cette solution soit la meilleure. Comme l'Iran, nous aurions peut être préféré un  mandat de six ans, renouvelable pour une période de quatre ans, mais évidemment nous nous plions au verdict de la  majorité. Par contre nous n'aimerions pas que dans huit ans, ce genre de débat se reproduise. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
(126) Mr AFLAK (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. I should like, in my turn, to explain why we abstained from the vote on this draft  amendment. My country’s delegation abstained because, like the delegations of Iran, Benin and Haiti, it does not believe  the proposal to reduce the Director-General’s term of office to four years, renewable for a further four, to be the best  solution. We believe there were other solutions more beneficial to the Organization than this one. Furthermore, we have  noticed at this meeting the absence of unanimity in the General Conference as to the usefulness of this solution. It is  therefore our opinion that amending the Constitution and the Director-General’s term of office requires a greater degree of  agreement than we have achieved here today. This is the reason for our abstention. Thank you.
127. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Cuba, you have the floor, sir.
(128) Mr ROA KOURÍ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. My delegation abstained because it finds no reason to amend the  Constitution as it stands. Therefore it chose to abstain rather than vote against what seemed to be the general trend among  the other Member States of UNESCO. Thank you very much.
129. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished delegate of Monaco, you have the floor, sir.
130. M. NOGHES (Monaco) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monaco s'est abstenu parce que nous sommes opposés à des élections trop  rapprochées. Par ailleurs, nous aurions été en faveur de la formule proposée par la France, parce qu'elle nous semblait  être la meilleure solution pour permettre une rotation entre les différents Etats. Merci.
131. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Lithuania, you have the floor, Ambassador.
132. Mme KARVELIS (Lituanie) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Les raisons de notre abstention sont semblables à celles qui ont déjà été  indiquées par d'autres délégués, à savoir que nous ne sommes pas convaincus que deux mandats de quatre ans  constituent la meilleure formule. Nous pensons que quatre années permettent tout au plus de mettre en route un certain  nombre de choses, mais non de les mener à bonne fin. Merci.
133. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Italy, you have the floor, Ambassador.
134. Mr SARDO (Italy):   Thank you, Mr President. I asked you for the floor not because I think it is necessarily appropriate to explain  one’s abstention in this case, especially since it is not in order to repeat motivations that have been previously  expressed, but I would like to say we abstained in this case because there was no other option, and there is no point in  going against the grain. But having said that, I would like to ask you if you consider proper the vote by tranche. In other  words, would not such a system influence the final decision of Member States in sections of the floor not directly  involved? Thank you.
135. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I don’t understand, Ambassador of Italy, was that a real question or some notification  expressed in the form of a question? I don’t know whether you are expecting an answer or have simply conveyed your  message by asking me a question.
136. Mr SARDO (Italy):   Thank you, Mr President. It was a real question, because I have some reason to believe that if we had all voted  at the same time, some numbers might have been different. Moreover, I note that it is common practice, when one votes  in any kind of political election, to have the whole mass of voters express itself in one vote. It is not customary to let the  electorate know what kind of vote has already been cast by a fraction of the electorate. Thank you.
137. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Greece, you have the floor, sir.
138. Mr VASSILIKOS (Greece):   Thank you, Mr President. I think the remark of my Italian colleague is absolutely justified. It is the first time I  have ever seen a vote by tranche that is seen by others. In the national elections of a country where votes may come  from a distant island, the results are not announced until those votes arrive so as precisely not to influence the voting. I  think his remark is pertinent and we should take it into consideration for future votes. It is true that it influences the  others. Thank you.
139. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much for the explanation. Lebanon, you have the floor, sir.
(140) Mr NACHABÉ (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. I consider that the statement of the delegate of Italy, which was endorsed by the  previous speaker, was justified. I do not think it appropriate to resort to voting by tranche, and believe everyone should vote  simultaneously, since this gives all countries the opportunity to express their view at the same time as the others. This is  more just and better serves the practical purposes of democracy in the work of this body. Thank you.
141. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. We did it that way simply because of a suggestion by the Secretariat to  simplify the counting of votes, but the Ambassador of Italy and our dear colleague from Greece and yourself mentioned  another idea. I would have appreciated it if you had expressed this view before I started the voting procedure. In that  case, one of you could have explained that this was not the way to proceed. If that had been made clear, I am sure that  our friends from the Secretariat would have accepted the burden of counting all the votes at once. Uruguay, you have  the floor, sir.
(142) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. I fail to understand the objections to the procedure that you have adopted, which seems  perfectly regular. Owing to the way that the vote is counted, it makes no difference whether you begin on the left, on the  right or in the middle; unless, that is, you have a computer in your head and it says: 80 votes for, 30 against and 25  abstentions. But, as that is not the case, and as votes are counted one by one, it makes no difference whether we start on the  left or the right, or whether everyone lifts their nameplates at the same time. Let us not look for problems where there are  none. There is no problem with the procedure that you followed; it is perfectly correct.
143. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I think the point was not right, centre or left. The point was that, when the people from  one side are looking at the result on the other side, they may be impressed. This was the point being made. And as I  mentioned, I wish that you had made this point, as it was not taken into account by the Secretariat when considering the  mechanics of the voting procedure, and the poor President has only this advice to go by. Thank you very much. New  Zealand has the floor.
(144) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   A small clarification, Mr President. I gave left, right and centre as an example. What I was trying to say is that, if  everyone raises their hand at the same time, you still have to count one by one and you cannot count us all at the same time.  So it makes no difference whether we raise our nameplates together or do so tranche by tranche. I only mentioned left,  right and centre as an example. Thank you, Mr President.
145. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you for the clarification. Perhaps I did not fully understand what it was you were conveying. After New  Zealand and Kenya, Italy will have the floor. But now New Zealand, please.
146. Mr GIMSON (New Zealand):   Mr President, thank you. I have listened with interest to the concerns expressed about the practicalities – the  mechanics – by which this decision has been taken today. I am also conscious that yesterday in the General Assembly  of States Parties to the World Heritage Convention it took us the better part of eight hours to elect eight candidates and  we decided there to have a look at the practicalities and the way in which we take our elections. I am conscious of  course that there are countries – great democracies – like that of the United States, where with the time zones you can  wake up in one state and find that the rest of the country has already decided your fate and your government. I am also  conscious that New Zealand, beginning with an “N” usually ends up at the back of the room. But I can assure you that  we are never influenced by countries whose names begin with the letter A. I think there is probably room for  improvement – there is always room for improvement – in the practical ways in which we conduct elections and  perhaps we have all learnt from this experience. Mr President, I would like to say that, as I said at the very start of this  exercise this morning, my predecessor Russell Marshall began this exercise two and a half years ago and I am relieved  that we have finally achieved the goal which we set out to achieve and I wish to place on the record New Zealand’s  appreciation for all those who so comprehensively supported and voted in support of this important amendment to the  Constitution today, which we believe will improve the work and governance of UNESCO. Finally, Mr President, I  believe that we were charged today on this agenda item with looking at three issues: the Canadian amendment, the New  Zealand proposal as amended and I believe that we are still charged with looking at the Executive Board  recommendation as the third and final chapter in this agenda item. Perhaps you could clarify that, please.
147. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I would first like to ask Kenya to take the floor, then we can come back to the  clarification requested by you. Kenya, please, you have the floor.
148. Ms WAFULA (Kenya):   Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Kenya would like to thank you for the wise way in which you have  conducted this very intricate debate and elections and kept us together through humour and laughter. I would like to  comment on the doubts raised about the elections or the way to vote, and concur with the previous speaker that it does  not matter. Even if we all vote together I can see my brothers Ethiopia or Jamaica in front of me and if I want to be  influenced, even as you are counting, then I will be influenced, so maybe for the future we might use some modern  “dot.com” way of private voting. That is the only way where you will not see your neighbour or be influenced.  Mr President, I would like to say that we voted for Canada’s proposal because we believe eight years is enough for  anybody to whom the General Conference has given a mandate to carry out the work of UNESCO successfully. Thank  you Mr President.
149. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much Madam. I now give the floor to Italy.
150. Mr SARDO (Italy):   Thank you, Mr President. Well, actually, it was not my intention to make this debate, which is already rather  long, even longer, but since it seems to me from the reactions coming from the floor that some distinguished colleagues  may not have grasped the reason why I asked this question, may I ask you to ask the same question to your Legal  Adviser, so that when we restart voting we will know somewhat better what to do. Thank you.
151. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Thank you, I will. Distinguished Ambassador of India, you have the floor.
152. Ms SABHARWAL (India):   Thank you very much, Mr President. We have the fullest confidence in the fair manner in which you have  conducted the voting, based very much on sound procedures, and we fully respect the outcome of the voting. However,  we heard the debate and references have been made of course to the precedents and examples of the world’s largest  democracy, that is, that of the United States. Might I, representing a billion-strong democracy, say that we have fully  understood what the colleagues from Italy and Greece are saying. Indeed, it is our experience also that voting should not  take place in tranches; all votes have to be taken together. And I hope that this will also make things somewhat clearer  to our colleague from Uruguay. Thank you very much.
153. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Ambassador of Greece.
154. Mr VASSILIKOS (Greece):   Thank you, Mr President. My colleague from Italy has covered my question but I would also like to have the  opinion of the Legal Adviser.
155. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Guatemala and then the Legal Adviser.
(156) Mr PALLARES BUONAFINA (Guatemala) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to say that I agree with the Secretariat on this. I have attended  votes in other United Nations bodies and I can recall dozens of occasions when we voted par tranche. This does not seem  in any way to influence the outcome of the vote. Guatemala very seldom speaks and takes up the General Conference’s  time, but I wish to seize this rare opportunity to explain why we voted for Canada’s motion. It seemed to us to be perfectly  logical and we agree with the 4 + 4 term of office. Thank you very much, Mr President.
157. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Dear Legal Adviser, you have heard what you’re expected to reply.
158. The LEGAL ADVISER:   Thank you Mr President. Mr President, I would like to clarify first of all, for the distinguished representative of  New Zealand, the question he raised earlier regarding the fate of the recommendation of the Executive Board. He was  wondering what happened to the recommendation of the Executive Board. After the adoption of the amendment by  Canada to the proposal of New Zealand, the President of the General Conference read out a text, on which he asked the  plenary to vote. That text was the text of the New Zealand proposal as amended by Canada, but it was also the text of  the recommendation of the Executive Board because the proposal of New Zealand as amended by Canada was exactly  the same from a substantive point of view as the recommendation of the Executive Board. The President asked for a  vote on that text and you have therefore voted and taken a decision on that matter. Regarding the question raised by the  representative of Italy and the representative of Greece, the Rules of Procedure say very clearly that voting shall be by a  show of hands. The Rules of Procedure do not say whether this show of hands should be by sections or parts of the  room – that is a question of method, a matter of practicality, and it is for you to decide how that show of hands should  be carried out in a hall like this, because it all depends also, I believe, on the configuration of the hall. And, depending  only on the configuration of the hall, I think it is for you to decide on practical matters regarding whether the show of  hands should be carried out at the same time in the hall or whether it should be done by sections; it is not regulated by  the Rules of Procedure. Thank you Mr President.
159. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. If it is up to me to decide, then having heard the points made by our distinguished  English-speaking colleagues, I promise all of them and the Ambassador of Italy, that if you elect me as the next  President of the General Conference, I promise you that I will proceed in a way you approve. Denmark, you have the  floor on a point of order.
160. Mr POULSEN-HANSEN (Denmark):   Thank you Mr President, and thank you for creating such a jolly good atmosphere here in the room, you might  even say a “Jalali good atmosphere!” However, we have business to do and I suggest now and I propose that, as the  voting has decided the 4 + 4 issue, we now move on to the next agenda item.
161. The PRESIDENT:   Is this a suggestion to close this item?
163. The PRESIDENT:   Is there any objection to closing this item? I see Senegal, are you objecting? There is a suggestion that we close  the discussion on this item. Do you object? Yes, you have the floor.
164. M. SOURANG (Sénégal) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais simplement préciser, en tant que juriste, que dès lors que la  procédure de vote est publique, les modalités concrètes de manifestation des choix importent peu. C'est probablement la  raison pour laquelle le Règlement intérieur est muet sur la question. Il serait peut être indiqué à titre prospectif et pour
504  l'avenir, dans la perspective de l'examen de questions qui requièrent un vote à la majorité qualifiée des deux-tiers, de  modifier la procédure de vote et d'instituer le vote au scrutin secret. Ce serait une manière de régler le problème  définitivement. Je vous remercie.
165. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much for mentioning this point.  RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE SUR LE POINT 7.4 : PROJET D'AMENDEMENT DE L'ARTICLE VII  DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF  REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE ON ITEM 7.4: DRAFT AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE VII  OF THE CONSTITUTION  INFORME DEL COMITÉ JURÍDICO SOBRE EL PUNTO 7.4: PROYECTO DE MODIFICACIÓN   DEL ARTÍCULO VII DE LA CONSTITUCIÓN  ДОКЛАД ЮРИДИЧЕСКОГО КОМИТЕТА ПО ПУНКТУ 7.4: ПРОЕКТ ПОПРАВКИ К СТАТЬЕ VII УСТАВА  א א א:٧,٤א א א א   法律委员会关于项目 7.4 的报告：《组织法》第 VII 条修正案草案
166. The PRESIDENT:   We shall now proceed to the next item on our agenda, item 7.4, Draft amendment to the Constitution,  document 31 C/80. I invite the distinguished Chairperson of the Legal Committee to present the report of the  Committee on this item. You have the floor, sir.
167. M. FERNÁNDEZ ILLANES (Chili), Président du Comité juridique :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je vais donc vous présenter le dixième rapport du Comité juridique, qui porte sur  le projet d'amendement à l'Acte constitutif faisant l'objet du point 7.4 de l'ordre du jour (document 31 C/80). Ce projet  d'amendement vise à combler un vide juridique concernant le rôle des délégations permanentes des Etats membres  auprès de l'Organisation et leurs relations avec le Secrétariat. Aucun problème juridique ne s'oppose à ce que ce projet  d'amendement soit déclaré recevable et soit adopté. Après avoir apporté un léger amendement au texte original et pris  acte du retrait d'un paragraphe par les auteurs du projet, le Comité a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'adopter le  projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 2 de son dixième rapport. Le Comité juridique a précisé que ce projet  d'amendement n'entraîne ni modifications fondamentales dans les buts de l'Organisation, ni obligations nouvelles pour  les Etats membres, ce qui signifie que si la Conférence générale l'adopte à la majorité des deux tiers, il ne sera pas  nécessaire qu'il soit aussi accepté par les deux tiers des Etats membres avant d'entrer en vigueur. Je vous remercie  Monsieur le Président.
168.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson of the Legal Committee. Before we come to a decision, I should like to  ask if any delegation wishes to take the floor. I see none. In order to articulate our decision-making on this proposed  amendment to the Constitution as contained in document 31 C/80 which was presented by the Chairperson of the Legal  Committee, I should like to propose the following draft resolution for the approval of the General Conference:  “The General Conference,   Having examined document 31 C/45 and taken note of the tenth report of the Legal Committee (document
31 C/80),   Decides to insert in Article II of the Constitution, after paragraph 6 of this Article, the following text:
7. Each Member State is entitled to appoint a Permanent Delegate to the Organization;
8. The Permanent Delegates of the Member State shall present his credentials to the Director-General of  the Organization, and shall officially assume his duties from the day of presentation of his credentials.’”
168.2 I now wish to ask if you consider it necessary to proceed to a vote. Do you object to my considering this draft  resolution adopted? Thank you very much. It is so decided. I give the floor to the distinguished Chairperson of the  Legal Committee.
(169.1) Mr FERNÁNDEZ ILLANES (Chile), Chairperson of the Legal Committee (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I should like to inform the General Conference of conversations and  discussions that took place during the meeting of the Committee, whose members have asked me to give an oral report to  the Conference.
(169.2) Ladies and gentlemen, during the detailed examination of the subjects referred to the Legal Committee, some  delegations expressed an interest in discussing certain subjects in greater depth. This gave the Legal Committee the  opportunity to spend more time on them. The Chairperson was asked to give an account of them. Briefly, those subjects are:
(169.3) (a) Ways of improving the explanatory note on the application of Rules 80 and 81, Section XIV, of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, on the admissibility criteria for draft resolutions relating to the adoption of  amendments to the Draft Programme and Budget. The Committee noted that the explanatory note clearly helped to improve  the system. However, some gaps and doubts remain: there is still room for improvement. Discussions were also held on  certain draft resolutions of particular relevance that were declared inadmissible, such as those with financial implications or  those submitted too late for reasons of force majeure but declared inadmissible nonetheless. Those cases must be examined  in greater depth. With regard to resolutions intended to improve the wording of the narrative parts of the Draft Programme  and Budget, these are declared inadmissible on the grounds that the States submitting them could achieve their aim by other  means. As the Conference can appreciate, these subjects require further discussion.
(169.4) (b) The advisability of establishing model statutes when creating new bodies or centres. When we examined  specific cases in the Committee we found that no general rule applied to discussion of these issues, and, in many cases, the  notion of establishing model statutes could be useful when a UNESCO-related body or centre is being created. We also  thought it relevant to update the principles and guidelines for the establishment and operation of international and regional  centres under UNESCO’s auspices, adopted by the General Conference at its 21st session.
(169.5) (c) We also had an opportunity to re-examine Rules 37 and 38 of the Rules of Procedure, on the functions of the  Legal Committee itself. The Committee noted that there is a tendency to refer agenda items to the Committee when there  are doubts as to which Commission they are to be referred: for example, the creation of centres under the auspices of  UNESCO, some of which are international law bodies, governed by bilateral agreements.
(169.6) Mr President, the Committee could spend more time on these and other matters, and examine them in greater  depth. Finally, may I draw attention to the work of the Committee, the outstanding efforts made by the Vice-Chairpersons
506  and the Rapporteur, and the cooperation of the Legal Adviser and the rest of the Secretariat. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
170. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I see Germany asking for the floor. Germany, you have the floor, sir.
171. Mr SCHÖFTHALER (Germany):   Thank you, Mr President. Germany would like to thank Mr Fernández Illanes for the very interesting report he  has just presented, and we would like now to encourage the Committee to continue its deliberations and to come up  with more interesting concrete proposals to speed up and facilitate the working methods of the General Conference in  order to help restore the political decision-making function of the General Conference as the supreme decision-making  body of the Organization. Thank you.
172. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much.  LIEU DE LA 32e SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  VENUE OF THE 32nd SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  LUGAR DE LA 32ª REUNIÓN DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  МЕСТО ПРОВЕДЕНИЯ 32-Й СЕССИИ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  א א א א א   大会第三十二届会议的地点
173. The PRESIDENT:   We shall now examine item 13.1 of the agenda, “Venue of the 32nd session of the General Conference”. The  document for this item is 31 C/40. At the 162nd session, the Board adopted a decision on this matter,
162 EX/Decision 6.3, which is reproduced in the document in front of you. I now have the pleasure of giving the floor  to the distinguished Chairperson of the Executive Board. Madam, you have the floor.
174. Ms MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Chairperson of the Executive Board:   Thank you, Mr President. Item 13.1, “Venue of the 32nd session of the General Conference”. Mr President, in  conformity with Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Executive Board considered at its
162nd session the item related to the venue of the 32nd session of the General Conference. Rule 3 of the Rules of  Procedure stipulates that any Member State may invite the General Conference to hold a session on its territory and that  such an invitation should be communicated to the Director-General at least six weeks in advance of the opening date of  the current session, that is, in this case, 1 September 2001. On that date no Member State had invited the General  Conference to hold its 32nd session on its territory. The Executive Board therefore, by 162 EX/Decision 6.3,  recommends that the General Conference hold its 32nd session at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris. This  recommendation, as you said, Mr President, is contained in document 31 C/40. Thank you Mr President.
175. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson of the Board. We are requested to adopt a draft resolution  contained in paragraph 6 of document 31 C/40. Are there any objections? I see none. Then it is so decided: the 32nd  session of the General Conference will be held in Paris.   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ ПО АДМИНИСТРАТИВНЫМ ВОПРОСАМ: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  אא א:א א א א   行政委员会的报告：决议与建议
176. The PRESIDENT:   The remainder of this plenary meeting will be devoted to the examination and adoption of the reports of the  Administrative Commission (31 C/60 and Corr. and Corr.2) and Commission II (31 C/62 and Add. and Corr.). Before  proceeding I should like to remind the distinguished delegates that in accordance with the procedure introduced at the
28th General Conference the reports submitted for your consideration will be examined as a whole. The chairperson of  each commission or committee will report on all items that were examined and submit, altogether, the resolutions  recommended by the commission to the plenary meeting for approval. Except, of course, if a delegate wishes to have a  particular resolution adopted separately. However, delegates wishing to take the floor may do so only after the
507  presentation of the whole report has been completed. If there is no such intervention, the General Conference will be  asked to take note of the reports of the commissions and the committees and to approve the decisions recommended by  them and reflected in their reports. I would also like to inform you that any suggestions relating to improvements of the  style of language of the report as well as correction of translation errors in the different language versions should be  transmitted in writing to the secretariat of the commissions or committees concerned or to the Secretariat of the General  Conference. Any such correction will be incorporated into the final version of the text. We shall now turn to the  examination of the report of the Administrative Commission (31 C/60 and Corr. and Corr.2). I invite Ambassador  Stanton, Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, to take the floor. You have the floor, sir.
177.1 Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I should like to  express my considerable pleasure and satisfaction at being able to report to you on the successful achievement of the  complex tasks which were assigned to the Commission. In accordance with the agenda approved by the General- Conference on 16 October, 18 items were considered by the Commission. These concerned the Programme and Budget,  Methods of work of the Organization, Constitutional and legal questions and Administrative and financial questions.  Thirteen meetings were devoted to the discussion and adoption of recommendations concerning the 18 items and two  for the consideration and adoption of the report of the Commission. A joint meeting of the Administrative Commission  and the five programme commissions on item 4.4 will be held tomorrow at 3 o’clock with a view to recommending the  Appropriation Resolution to the General Conference for adoption.
177.2 As decided at the third meeting of the plenary under item 1.6 and in accordance with the procedure followed  during the last session of the General Conference, the Commission’s report includes only the resolutions recommended  to the General Conference for adoption. Mr President, I would like to remind you that the Administrative Commission  has already presented to the plenary reports on items 1.3, “Report by the Director-General on communications received  from Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV. C, paragraph 8(c) of the Constitution” and 4.2, “Adoption of  the provisional budget ceiling for 2002-2003”, and I will therefore not report on these two items in detail. Mr President,  as you said, the plenary has before it documents 31 C/60 and Corr. and Corr. 2, which contain the Administrative  Commission report.
177.3 Mr President, I now turn to item 1.3, “Report by the Director-General on communications received from  Member States invoking the provisions of Article IV. C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution” (31 C/41, Add., Add.2,  Add.3, Add.4 and Corr.). Mr President, you will recall that the recommendation of the Commission on this item was  already adopted by the plenary at its 15th session, taking into account correspondence from Tajikistan. Mr President,  allow me, once again, to bring to the attention of the plenary the difficulties of Member States which were formerly part  of the Soviet Union to pay their contributions and to respect their payment plans, not only due to difficult economic and  political conditions in these countries but also to the unrealistic scale of assessments inherited from the former USSR.  The Commission felt that the General Conference should explore possibilities of solving these long-standing problems,  taking into account the experience of the United Nations and other agencies of the United Nations system.
177.4 I now come to item 4.1, “Methods of preparing the budget and budget estimates for 2002-2003 and budgeting  techniques” (31 C/5 and Add, 31 C/5 Rev.1 and Rev.2, and 31 C/6 Parts II and III), the Commission examined the  budgeting techniques and methods applied in the preparation of the budget estimates for 2002-2003 and decided that  they were in conformity with the resolution of the General Conference at its 30th session and the decisions of the  Executive Board at its 160th session. The Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the  resolution contained in paragraph 4 of document 31 C/60.
177.5 Item 4.2, “Adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 2002-2003” (31 C/5 (Part I, II, III and IV):  Mr President, as I indicated earlier, the draft resolution recommended by the Commission has been adopted by the  plenary at its eighth session.
177.6 Item 4.3, “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003” (31 C/5, Rev.1,  Rev.2, 31 C/6 and 31 C/7 and 31 C/8): the Commission examined Parts I, II.B, II.C, III and IV of the Draft Programme  and Budget. Concerning Part I – General Policy and Direction – the Commission supported the recommendation of the  Executive Board at its 162nd session that the possibilities of reducing operational costs be explored. It expressed its  appreciation of the internal oversight mechanisms introduced by the Director-General during the current biennium. In  regard to the participation in the joint machinery of the United Nations system, the Commission welcomed the Director- General’s proposals that the cost-sharing mechanisms be absorbed within the zero nominal growth budget for the  financial period 2002-2003. With respect to the Participation Programme, several delegates welcomed the transparency  and efficiency of the current administration in the management of the programme in 2000-2001. Some delegates  expressed the need to facilitate, promote and help countries to better elaborate their requests, and address priority needs  in developing countries as well as those in transition. Under Part II.C – Programme Related Services – the Commission  endorsed the Executive Board’s recommendations that Chapters 1, 2 and 3 be moved to Part III of the budget. Under
508  Part III, several delegates expressed concern with regard to the budgetary reduction proposed for the Division of  Conferences, Languages and Documents, given the importance of preserving the essential interpretation and translation  services, necessary for the smooth functioning of the governing bodies. The representative of the Director-General  explained that the 31 C/5 staff costs budget as a whole had to be reduced in order to meet, inter alia, statutory  requirements and reform costs. He added that with a view to maintaining the services provided by the Division of  Conferences, Languages and Documents, it was intended to have recourse to outside contractual arrangements for  interpretation and translation. The Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 6 of document 31 C/60 and Corr.
177.7 Item 6.5, “Criteria and directives governing the travel arrangements of the President of the General  Conference” (31 C/59): during the debate, the Commission considered similar existing practices in the United Nations  as well as the budgetary allocation to be accorded to the President of the General Conference. The Commission  recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 7 of document 31 C/60.
177.8 Item 7.5, “Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference”, that is to say, Rules 39 and 40  relating to the Headquarters Committee (31 C/69): the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it  endorse the amendments proposed by the Legal Committee, as stated, in paragraph 8 of document 31 C/60.
177.9 Item 11.1, “Financial report and audited financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for the  financial period ended 31 December 1999 and report by the External Auditor (31 C/28 and Add.): the Commission  welcomed the representative of the External Auditor. It noted that the financial statement for 1998-1999, the audit  opinion and the long form of the report had been thoroughly discussed by the Executive Board at its 160th session.  Regarding internal oversight, the Commission expressed satisfaction with the action taken by the Director-General to  create the Internal Oversight Service and its cooperation with the External Auditor, notably during the review and audit  of the Brasilia Office. Some delegates expressed concern about the management of field offices and stressed that the  Organization should always ensure that offices have the administrative capacity to carry out work entrusted to them.  They also made specific suggestions on subjects that they wished the External Auditor to examine. The Commission  was informed that the Director-General had appealed to Member States for voluntary contributions to the Finance and  Budget System (FABS) project, implementation of which would be otherwise delayed. The Commission recommended  to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 9 of document 31 C/60 and Corr.
177.10 Item 11.2, “Financial report and interim financial statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO as at
31 December 2000 for the financial period ending 31 December 2001” (31 C/29 and Add.): the Commission  recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 10 of document 31 C/60.
177.11 Item 11.3, “Scale of assessments and currency of Member States’ contributions” (31 C/30 – Parts I and II):  Mr President, under this item the Commission concentrated its debate on the scale of contributions for the next  biennium. Some Member States considered that the present methodology linking UNESCO’s scale to the latest United  Nations scale was appropriate. Others expressed concern about the impact of the latest scale. Some expressed concern  that the present practice of automatically adopting a change of scale by the United Nations during the course of a  biennium prevented Member States from having a clear indication of their respective contributions. During the adoption  of its report, the Commission decided to reopen the debate on this item. There were principally two strongly held views.  One supported the proposal of the Director-General that aligns UNESCO’s scale on the most recent scale decided by  the United Nations while others recommended the adoption of the scale applied for the year 2000. Recognizing that the  scale of assessments should be adopted by consensus, the Commission set up a working group composed of Chile,  China, Germany, Japan, Nigeria and its Chairperson to study the issue. At its meetings, the working group noted that  the General Conference has full autonomy to set UNESCO’s scale and was thus not obliged to follow the United  Nations scale. Although it has traditionally followed the United Nations scale, the group considered several alternatives  and concluded that a detailed study would be required from the Executive Board at its next sessions. After considerable  debate on these issues, the group proposed a text to the Commission that was adopted by consensus. The Commission  recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 11 of document 31 C/60  and Corr. 2.
177.12 Item 11.4, “Collection of Member States’ contributions”: the Commission recommended to the General  Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 12 of document 31 C/60.
177.13 Item 11.5, “Working Capital Fund: Level and administration” (31 C/32): the Commission recommended to the  General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 13 of document 31 C/60.
177.14 Item 11.6, “UNESCO Coupons Programme (Facility to assist Member States to acquire the educational and  scientific material necessary for technological development)” (31 C/33 and Corr.): the Commission noted the  advantages of the UNESCO Coupons Programme to Member States and in particular those countries which have  problems in obtaining convertible currency. Several Member States expressed their positive appreciation of the facility
509  put at their disposal for the benefit of educational and scientific institutions. They stressed that this contributed to the  visibility of UNESCO. The Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained  in paragraph 14 of document 31 C/60.
177.15 Item 11.7, “Managing the UNESCO complex: Report by the Director-General and report of the Headquarters  Committee” (31 C/34, Parts I and II and Add.): the Commission welcomed the presentation of the Chairperson of the  Headquarters Committee, His Excellency Mr Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan, on the work accomplished by this  Committee. The Commission recognized the need to attend to the many difficulties faced, in particular, maintenance,  renovation, reinforcement of security at Headquarters and how to finance the project. The representative of the  Director-General invited the Member States to focus their attention on finding a satisfactory solution to the problem of  financing the restoration and repair works of the Headquarters buildings and suggested the exploration of the  possibilities of voluntary contributions. The Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the  resolution contained in paragraph 15 of document 31 C/60.
177.16 Item 11.8, “Staff regulations and staff rules” (31 C/35): the Commission recommended to the General  Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 16 of document 31 C/60.
177.17 Item 11.9, “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits” (31 C/36): the Commission recommended to the General  Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 17 of document 31 C/60.
177.18 Item 11.10, “Implementation of personnel policy and geographical distribution” (31 C/37 and Add.): the  Commission examined this item and requested the representative of the Director-General to provide additional  information. After an overview of the progress achieved to date and of the initiatives undertaken to implement the  reform process in Human Resources Management, the Commission noted the efforts that were being made by the  Director-General to improve staff policy. The Commission requested that the principle of geographical distribution be  respected, especially regarding recruitment of qualified staff from under- and non-represented countries. The  Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 18 of  document 31 C/60.
177.19 Item 11.11, “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and UNESCO Staff Pensions Committee” (31 C/38,  Parts I and II): the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in  paragraph 19 of document 31 C/60.
177.20 Item 11.12, “Report by the Director-General on the state of the Medical Benefits Fund, and appointment of  Member States’ representatives to the Board of Management 2002-2003” (31 C/39): the Commission recommended to  the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 20 of document 31 C/60.
177.21 Mr President, please allow me to conclude my presentation with a few words of grateful thanks to all those  who contributed to the fruitful conclusion of the deliberations of the Administrative Commission. First on my list are  the delegates of the Member States who gave the Commission the benefit of their technical expertise and professional  competence. Mr President, the Administrative Commission would never have progressed as it did if it had not been for  the indispensable assistance the Commission received from the representatives of the Director-General, namely,  Mr Barbosa, the Deputy Director-General, Ms Mitrofanova, the Assistant Director-General for Administration, and all  other colleagues, to whom I am very grateful.
177.22 Now Mr President, a few words on those who made the work of the Administrative Commission easy and  almost enjoyable. Foremost among them is the indefatigable Secretary, Mr Mohamed Bachiri. He enjoys the willing  services of a team of devoted colleagues whom I shall name: Mr Silviu Dragan, Mr Frantz de Laleu, Ms Fifi Marega,  Ms Filiz Aktas, Ms Mary-Ann Bernard, Ms Terry McGinnis, Ms Patricia Zarka, Ms Marie-Noelle Branet and Mr Poun  Ong, without whose efficient help we could not have successfully concluded our work. May I also express my sincere  thanks to all those who assisted us from behind the scenes: the room clerks, without whose help we could not have  successfully functioned, and the interpreters, whose tasks were greatly appreciated. I am personally grateful to the Chief  of the Interpretation Services, Mr Boulares who was readily available to meet all the exceptional and special demands  of our Commission. Thank you, Mr President.
178. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Stanton, distinguished Chairperson of the Administrative Commission.  Allow me to congratulate you and your distinguished colleagues in the Commission for the excellent work  accomplished. Sincerely, it was a thorough and very difficult job that was done by your group. Are there any  comments? Before I give the floor to Slovenia and then to Georgia, I would like to inform you that we will be  continuing our work today until 7 p.m. Slovenia has the floor.
179.1 Ms KLEMEN-KREK (Slovenia):   Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to join in your congratulations to the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission on his work, which is certainly one of the most difficult responsibilities and tasks, namely  guiding the Commission through very difficult discussions and negotiations on financial matters. In this regard,  Mr President, I would like first to make a statement and then a suggestion.
179.2 The Slovenian delegation invites the General Conference of UNESCO at its 31st session to take note of the  following statement: the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was admitted to the United Nations on 1 November 2000,  which is a year ago today, and on many occasions during this session of the General Conference we cordially welcomed  the fact that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been admitted to the United Nations system and to UNESCO and  we have already started very fruitful cooperation in UNESCO projects. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was  admitted as a new Member State, a new Member State I have to underline, to the United Nations system and to  UNESCO, in accordance with Article 4 of the Charter of the United Nations, by General Assembly resolution  A/55/L.23 and Security Council resolution 1326, adopted last year, which means that the Federal Republic of  Yugoslavia was admitted on the same terms as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia, as a new  Member State, rather than being re-admitted or re-entering. So the country was not re-admitted, as was said by the  President of this General Conference in his address, nor did it re-enter, as was said by the Chairperson of the Executive  Board in her opening speech at the beginning of the General Conference. Therefore, the Slovenian delegation invites the  distinguished delegates of the Member States, the President of the General Conference at its 31st session, the  Chairperson of the Executive Board and, the Director-General to take note of this fact and respect fully the decision as  adopted by the United Nations General Assembly, as stated before, and in all procedures of the Organization and its  governing and subsidiary bodies as well in its legal work, and to replace the incorrect use of the terms “re-entry” or “re- admission” by “new entry” or “admission”. This means, therefore, that the wording in the report of the Administrative  Commission, under item 11.4, paragraph 12, subparagraph 6, “Yugoslavia” should be replaced by “the Socialist Federal  Republic of Yugoslavia” and in subparagraph 7, “the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia” should be replaced by  “the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia”. Thank you, Mr President.
180. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. I give the floor to the distinguished Ambassador of Georgia. You have the  floor, sir.
(181) Mr TCHOGOVADZE (Georgia) (Translation from the Russian):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, I should like to come back again very briefly to item 1.3 and those elements  concerning the deprivation of the voting rights of a number of countries. I should like to say that I have no wish to repeat  all the arguments that we have constantly put forward here, and I am again speaking on behalf of five countries of the  former Soviet Union. It seems to me, first of all, that all these countries have to date done their utmost to pay their  respective contributions. I can say that Georgia, Moldova and Armenia have paid their contributions for 2000-2001. Still, I  do not wish to repeat and labour the point that all these five post-Soviet countries are in the most grievous of financial and  economic situations; they are countries where there are conflict zones and extremely difficult conditions. However, despite  all this, nothing was taken into account, everything was rushed through and the business of depriving these countries of  their voting rights was not properly thought out. As you know, the Soviet Union has not existed for 10 years. We are young  States that left the Soviet Union, but States with an immense history. I should like to remind you that the history of my  State goes back thousands of years. Yet for some reason we continue to be linked all the time to that monster that used to  be there. And its spectre is still with us. So how is it that even now, when we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of our  independent Republic, we have to go on feeling the burden of the consequences of the Soviet Union? That is something we  just cannot understand and are quite unable to explain to our peoples. You know, it may now be too late to put anything  right: all the decisions, for example, that had to be made have been made; all the votes that had to be taken have been taken.  But this, I think, is not the main point. The main point is that a moral wrong has been done to these countries, because right  up to the end, not everything was thought out and these countries were not given a hearing. UNESCO by the way has been  the first international organization to deprive these countries of their voting rights. And this staggers me because UNESCO  is not an economic organization, not a financial organization; it is the very organization that should be encouraging a  dialogue of cultures, precisely the one that should be encouraging tolerance, encouraging everything that singles it out from  a number of international organizations. We never raised the question about whether or not we were going to pay; we must  pay and we shall pay. What was proposed to us for payment in 2000-2001 is a realistic, normal rate. But the payments  proposed for 1994, 1995 and 1996 were unrealistic because those were years, in the first place, of internal wars and a  terribly difficult situation. They were therefore unrealistic contributions stemming from Soviet times. In this connection, I  would request you somehow to take cognizance of my observations. I remind you once more that I am speaking on behalf  of five countries: the Republic of Moldova, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia and Georgia. And I would request that in  future such matters should be approached with greater sensitivity, and that heed or greater heed should be given to our  explanations. Thank you for your attention.
182. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. As we will express our opinion about the whole report of the Chairperson  of the Administrative Commission, I would like, as requested by the Ambassador of Georgia, each speaker to tell us  which item he or she is speaking about. I give the floor to the Ambassador of Uruguay. You have the floor, sir.
(183) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I am taking the floor now to make sure that I will be allowed to make a  statement on behalf of the Group of 77 as its Chairperson, once a decision has been taken on the document before us.  Thank you, Mr President.
(185) Mr HASSAN (Oman) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. I should like to refer to item 11.7 (Managing the UNESCO complex: Report by the  Director-General and report of the Headquarters Committee). I should first like, in my turn, to extend my wholehearted  congratulations to Ambassador Stanton, Chairperson of the Finance and Administrative Commission, on the great amount  of work his Commission has successfully accomplished. As Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee for this session, I  have to tell the Conference that the state of the Headquarters complex is really deteriorating from one year to the next. This  can be attributed to the Administration’s inability to maintain the various buildings. I should like to urge Member States,  and more precisely those able to do so, to assist the Director-General in his efforts to procure the resources needed to  renovate and maintain the Organization’s Headquarters, because neglect of this matter could result in the further  deterioration of the buildings. The day may come – God forbid! – when we shall not be able to hold our conferences and  meetings in these buildings that are every day falling into worse disrepair, or conduct our business in a safe, healthy  environment, and the Organization’s employees themselves will be in an untenable situation. On behalf of the Headquarters  Committee, I repeat my appeal to help the Director-General find the solution which is needed in order to maintain and  renovate the Headquarters complex. Thank you.
186. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of France. Madam, you have the floor.
187. Mme DE BRUCHARD (France) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais appuyer fortement ce qui vient d'être dit par le Président  du Comité du Siège, auquel je dois rendre hommage, car il a fait un excellent travail à la tête de notre Comité. Je crois  qu'il a parfaitement raison de souligner l'urgence et la gravité du problème auquel nous devons faire face maintenant. La  France s'est efforcée d'avoir une attitude positive à l'égard du Siège. Elle a proposé différents moyens et financements  pour que ce dossier puisse progresser. Malheureusement nous n'avons pas pu, au cours de nos travaux récents, avancer  de façon disons, décisive dans la réalisation du projet communément appelé le Plan Belmont. Pour ce qui est de sa  phase I, je pense que les travaux vont pouvoir débuter. Par contre, nous n'avons pas beaucoup progressé sur la question  de la maintenance, qui est une question cruciale, et encore moins en ce qui concerne le financement de la phase II du  Plan Belmont. Dans l'esprit de ce que vient de dire le Président du Comité du Siège, il serait me semble6t6il utile et  urgent que la Conférence générale réfléchisse à la possibilité de recourir notamment à l'emprunt, puisque  malheureusement la situation budgétaire actuelle de l'Organisation nous permet difficilement d'envisager d'autres  solutions. En tout cas, il nous faut réfléchir aux moyens de financer la phase II du Plan Belmont, sans quoi, comme l'a  dit le Président du Comité du Siège, l' Organisation risquera, faute de locaux appropriés, de ne pas pouvoir travailler  dans des conditions satisfaisantes. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
188. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. I invite the distinguished delegate of China to take the floor.
(189) Mr ZHANG Xuezhong (China):   Thank you, Mr President. My delegation would like to make, with your approval, a brief statement on a particular  topic after the adoption of the report of the Administrative Commission.
190. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. I call the distinguished delegate of Honduras. You have the floor, sir.
(191) Mr BENDANA-PINEL (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Our delegation goes along with the words of the Chairperson of the  Headquarters Committee, and in particular, the appeal to find ways of continuing to improve and refurbish the UNESCO  buildings, as is both necessary and appropriate. I should like to add that, when it chaired the Headquarters Committee, our  country did a great deal in that regard for the Organization’s fiftieth anniversary, resulting in the refurbishment of the  recently inaugurated Picasso Hall. We also welcome the efforts by the host country to try to solve the problems facing the  Organization’s buildings. Thank you very much, Mr President.
192. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Is there any other comment? Ambassador Stanton, do you have anything to add?
193. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom) Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Thank you, sir. I would first of all like to say that in the course of a necessarily abbreviated report I perhaps did  not say sufficient about the debate we had on the question of managing the UNESCO complex. I am therefore very  grateful to those colleagues, in particular of course the Chairperson of the Headquarters Committee, for amplifying  these serious issues for the benefit of the plenary. Secondly, sir, if I may say so, a number of delegations have indicated  to you that they would wish to make statements after the adoption by consensus of this report and I would propose to  you that, if the plenary is minded to adopt the report by consensus, you should invite those delegations to speak as they  have requested. Thank you, sir.
194. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. I call the delegate of Slovenia. You have the floor, Madam.
195. Ms KLEMEN-KREK (Slovenia):   Mr President, I would like to know if our corrections have been adopted or approved, because I certainly have  to insist on them.
196. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. They will certainly be incorporated into the final version, after the General Conference.  The distinguished delegate of Japan has the floor.
197. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not sure whether it is the right time to raise this question. I have an  item which should be separated from the other parts of the report, to be deliberated separately. Thank you very much.
198. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Your Excellency, which item do you want to comment on later?
199. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. It is on item 11.3.
200. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier, if a Member State asks to discuss an item separately, we will,  after seeking the opinion of the plenary, adopt the report as a whole, except for that item, which will be taken  afterwards. Having heard all opinions on the report, may I consider that the plenary takes note of the report of the  Administrative Commission and adopts the resolutions proposed therein, except with respect to item 11.3, which will be  discussed later. May I consider that there is a consensus on that matter as explained. It is so decided. Thank you. The  distinguished delegate of Japan has the floor.
201.1 Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. At the time of the adoption of the resolution on this matter in the  Administrative Commission, I said that I would go along with the consensus – if there was a consensus – on condition  that I might reopen the issue in plenary, and I regret that I am obliged to reopen the issue on this matter. Well, my  delegation has cooperated in seeking a consensus on this matter. Initially we thought that at the Commission level the  initial proposal made by the Secretariat had been adopted, but before the adoption, at the last moment, there was a  proposal to reopen the issue, as the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission has just reported. Following that,  Japan, as one of the members of the working group, engaged in seeking another consensus. During that exercise a text  was presented as a compromise and we worked on that, but there was not enough time to consider the proposal. During  that exercise we explained the difficulty we face with the proposed compromise solution and at that time we did not  have the mandate to go along with the consensus. So that is the reason why my delegation was obliged to state that, if  there was a consensus, we would go along with the consensus, with the condition of reopening the issue in the plenary.
201.2 However, we received instructions from my home government to the effect that we have a technical problem in  accepting a part of this document, namely the resolution under item 11.3. I do know that this is a call for compromise. It
514  concerns paragraph 7(a), the last phrase, which refers to the possibility of including retrospective adjustments of the  interim scales of assessments. Now if we adopt this resolution we agree with the scales of assessments listed in the  annex document. We are happy with that arrangement but, as this text says, there is a possibility – if we go to the  Executive Board and engage in that examination – that there will be retrospective adjustments. Now the problem, as I  think many colleagues will recall, is that we had difficulty with the ceiling. In accordance with the decision taken at the  United Nations, the actual ceiling was reduced from 25% to 22%, but if there is a possibility that this might be increased  again to 25% we have a serious technical problem. According to this text – the annex – we will be paying a particular  contribution for 2002 and then 2003, but suppose that the Executive Board deliberates and adjusts the scale upwards,  then we will not be able to pay because, according to our domestic law and financial regulations, when we pay the  financial contributions for a specific year to any international organization we pay the amount authorized by the budget.  In our system it is on an annual basis. So if the Executive Board asked us to pay more than what we already pay, there  would be no money available as in our system, although we would pay the obligatory amount at the time, there is no  possibility of reserving beforehand an amount that is not provided for. So on that technical point we cannot accept any  wording which makes room for that possibility. I have to say this frankly because I do not want to give the illusion that  we can go along with an Executive Board decision to increase the ceiling. We cannot follow that, we can never agree to  that, so I think it is very fair to make this very clear from the start. What my delegation proposes is that either we delete  the phrase “which could include retrospective adjustments of the interim scales of assessments” or otherwise we  reformulate it so that there is no upward adjustment. Thank you very much.
202. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. May I invite the distinguished Chairperson of the Administrative Commission to  comment on this proposal.
203. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Like all delicate compromises, this is a finely balanced text. Members of the Commission made considerable  efforts to reach a consensus on this text and, as my colleague from Japan has observed in his intervention, the particular  paragraph to which he has referred – paragraph 7(a) of the draft resolution on item 11.3 in document 31 C/60 Corr.2 – is  at the core of the compromise that was established so that we could reach consensus on this text. I would like to say  several things about paragraph 7(a). The first is that it says that the Executive Board could make proposals that involve  retrospective adjustments. It does not say that it will. It will consider the matter and it may make such proposals. And I  think we can reasonably expect that the Executive Board, in considering this matter, will take account of all the relevant  factors, including the technical implications of such a proposal for Member States – not simply Japan, but other  Member States as well. There is clearly a range of matters that the Board will need to take into account, and I have no  doubt that it would wish to take into account the matters that have been laid before the Conference this afternoon by my  colleague from Japan. I would also say that if a retrospective adjustment were to be effected, the Comptroller has  explained to us that this would in practice be done by an adjustment to future payments. And there are perhaps technical  ways in which these matters may be managed in countries that have annual budgetary processes. But these are all  questions that require examination in depth. Having participated in the very extensive discussions on this matter, it is  my view that the way forward in regard to this text should be that we take note of the points raised by colleagues, and  we have of course taken note of what my Japanese colleague has had to say. We will be taking note of statements that  other colleagues will wish to make, including of course my colleague from Uruguay, who will be making a statement on  behalf of the Group of 77. And, of course, by implication, we invite the Executive Board to take note of these  statements and to bear in mind the rather weighty issues involved in determining how to proceed. But I would not  recommend to the Conference that it consider amendments to this text, and I would invite my colleague from Japan to  withdraw his proposals to actually amend the text and instead to acknowledge that his statement of difficulties has been  placed on the table and noted, along with the other statements that we will hear, and to accept that we refer the matter,  as is proposed, to the Executive Board, where these difficult issues will be further considered and, I am sure, dealt with  in a sensible fashion. Thank you sir.
204. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. After giving the floor to Uruguay, I shall invite our distinguished colleague from Japan  to tell us his reaction to what was said by Mr Stanton. Uruguay, you have the floor, sir.
(205) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, I should like to let the distinguished Ambassador of Japan take the floor before I do, because our  statement on this matter will depend on what he has to say. Please give Japan the floor and then we shall speak.
206. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Bearing in mind that we cannot stay beyond seven o’clock because of the interpreters, I  shall give the floor to the Ambassador of Japan. You have the floor, sir.
207. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission strongly  recommended against amending the text or deleting the expression I pointed out, “which could include retrospective  adjustments of the interim scales of assessments”. The Chairperson of the Administrative Commission said that it is my  unilateral statement, but what I might expect is some kind of understanding, for example a statement by the President  that Member States acknowledge that there will be no retrospective upward adjustment. If that is not possible, then  instead of proposing the deletion of the phrase I have just mentioned, we could add a word, a single word, to this text. I  would suggest that we add the word “downward” after the word “retrospective”. Thank you very much, Mr President.
208. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. According to my understanding, since you mentioned a statement by the President of  the General Conference, I think that if we adopt this report, which clearly says “could include retrospective  adjustments”, I can hardly announce that there will be no retrospective adjustments. In that case, of course, the  emphasis explained by Mr Stanton on the word “could” means that you or other Member States can put forward these  technicalities in the Board during the discussion. Bearing this in mind, may I ask you to repeat again your other option?  Am I correct that you are asking for the addition of the word “downward” after “retrospective” in the published text?
209. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Yes, Mr President. But I offered another choice, one that does not touch the text of the resolution itself: I  propose that some formula concerning the understanding be recorded as the President’s statement in the record. Thank  you very much.
210. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Ambassador of Uruguay.
(211) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall now take the floor on behalf of the Group of 77, but I shall not be  making the statement. That must wait, as I explained earlier, until a decision has been adopted on this document. I just  wanted to say, Mr President, that our Group is a serious, responsible one; it is a set of countries that in no way wishes to  obstruct UNESCO’s action or to deprive the Organization of its scale of contributions by Member States, despite the  sacrifice that the scale of contributions implies for many, indeed for the overwhelming majority of the members of the  Group of 77. Therefore, and for that reason only, we have agreed on a consensus text. But we are not willing to change a  single word in that consensus text; or rather, I cannot, on behalf of the Group of 77, change a single word without first  consulting the rest of the Group. If the Ambassador of Japan insists on making an amendment, I would ask you to suspend  the meeting to enable the Group of 77 to meet; we shall then give our reply tomorrow. Otherwise, if you do not suspend the  meeting, I will ask for a vote to be held. Thank you, Mr President.
212. Mr PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Ambassador of Japan, you have the floor, sir.
213. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not the intention of my delegation to hamper the work of this  Organization. I am just explaining why we cannot agree to an arrangement which we already know beforehand leaves  no room for us to implement it. We do not want to give the impression that we can do something which we cannot do. I  do not think it is fair. So what I am saying is, please take note and make it clear that Members of this Organization are  not asking something that one Member State cannot do. That is all I am asking. And as the delegate of Uruguay
516  proposed that the meeting be suspended and suggested contacts with my delegation, I would be delighted to do so.  Thank you very much.
214. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. We will certainly take note of what you said. May I ask for another clarification,  Ambassador: the other suggestion was that we include your explanation in the report. Is that enough for you?
215. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you, Mr President. It is not my suggestion. I need to ask for the understanding of the Member States in a  written form, in some kind of record. Thank you very much.
216. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Ambassador Stanton, could you advise us in some way?
217. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom) Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Sir, it is nearly the time at which you were intending to adjourn this session. I would reiterate what I said  earlier, that I do not think that this Conference would be well advised to seek amendments to the text that we have in  front of us. I would also like to report that my Commission took the view that, on a matter like this, which binds all 188  Member States in a very serious manner, it is inappropriate to vote and therefore it is very important to seek consensus.  I would suggest that some consideration might be given as to how what my Japanese colleague has said might be placed  on the record, and that we might return to this matter at the resumed meeting of this plenary, sir. Thank you.
218. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other comments? Uruguay, you have the floor.
(219) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, in order to consult the Group, we would like to be quite clear as to what is being proposed;  otherwise we shall come back tomorrow and, like today, ask for the meeting to be suspended. I must consult the whole  Group. What exactly is the proposal being made, so that we can consult the Group? Thank you.
220. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. Distinguished delegate of Spain, you have the floor, sir.
(221) Mr RAMALLO MASSANET (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Perhaps I am missing the point but, in my view, the technical difficulty so  clearly explained by the distinguished Ambassador of Japan does not in any way prevent us from approving the consensus  text as it stands, for the following reason: it is quite clear in the wording of the consensus text that no change can be made  over the next biennium, since the Executive Board cannot take any decision on a change of scale; that would have to be left  to the General Conference at its 32nd session. And any change to the scale made at that session would be taken into  account in the 2004-2005 biennium. For 2002-2003, what we are now approving is what Member States will be asked to  pay. Even though there might be changes affecting the following biennium, while most of our countries are subject to
517  annual domestic budgets, the decision that we take now does not in any way affect the next two years. If there is a change –  as the result of the recommendations of the Executive Board or possibly decisions taken by the General Assembly of the  United Nations or any other new development that affects life at UNESCO, then, of course, a decision will have to be taken  by us, but that would take effect only in the following biennium. I do not therefore understand why this technical difficulty  should be a problem; no delegation will have to pay any more, or less, than the amount specified in the scale for 2002-2003.  Thank you, Mr President.
222. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished delegate of Spain. It is now seven o’clock, and as I promised to the  interpreters, we cannot continue. We will take note of what was said from the floor about this item. I myself have  something to say about two of the items among those we approved, but for the sake of time I will wait until we have  finished the whole item tomorrow. Then, with your permission, I declare our meeting adjourned. We will continue  discussion on item 11.3 tomorrow morning at 10 o’clock at our nineteenth plenary meeting. Have a good evening.  Thank you.    La séance est levée à 19 heures  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.00   Заседание закрывается в 19.00  א ٧,٠٠א   会议于 19 时结束