63    Quatrième séance plénière
16 octobre 2001 à 15 h.10  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  Fourth plenary meeting
16 October 2001 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Cuarta sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, as we do not have the quorum, I adjourn the meeting for five minutes. Kindly be seated.  (The meeting is adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fourth plenary meeting, at which we shall continue the general policy  debate we started this morning. I should like to inform you, distinguished colleagues, that, as regards the organization of  work, the General Committee at its first meeting this morning recalled that, as stated in paragraph 30 of document
31 C/2, a drafting group comprising 18 Member States has to be established in order to prepare the resolution whereby  the General Conference will approve the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. All electoral groups should make  proposals concerning the three Member States of each group who will sit on the drafting group. Those of the electoral  groups which have not yet made any proposals are invited to submit their proposals – i.e. three States from each  electoral group – to the General Committee before its next meeting on Thursday morning at 9 a.m. when it will examine  the establishment of the drafting group.
1.3 I should once again like to remind you that, as we agreed on the organization of our work, each speaker has  only eight minutes to address the plenary. I should therefore be most grateful if you could respect this time limit.
1.4 Before starting our meeting, I should like to request the distinguished chairpersons of the various geographical  groups to please designate three representatives of each group to meet in my office at 6 p.m. after this meeting so that  we can discuss the draft resolution which was introduced this morning by Madam Chairperson of the Board and has  already been distributed to all of you.   DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL (continuación)  ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ (продолжение)  א )(א   总政策辩论(续)
2. The PRESIDENT:   I now invite His Excellency Dr Pedro Luis Apóstolo, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of El  Salvador to France and to UNESCO, to take the floor. Excellency, please.
(3.1) Mr APÓSTOLO (El Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates of the Member States, ladies and gentlemen, this first General Conference of the new millennium  brings us together today with common aims, convictions and interests. Our concern is to help to create a better world, with
66  understanding and rapprochement between peoples, strengthening our identities and with shared and informed development.  We are convinced that this can be done with and through UNESCO, with its support and in partnership with all those living  alongside us in this global village, on the basis of equity, justice and the practice of values as well as of education, culture  and science.
(3.2) Our purpose is to exchange aspirations, experience and visions, to join forces so as to agree on programmes and  actions that will promote human development and closer relations and allow us to live together more harmoniously in the  world. With that in mind, El Salvador deeply regrets and condemns once again the recent terrorist actions, which have done  so much damage to the principles of human coexistence, through an attack not just on a single country but on the principles  that are the common heritage of all humanity and which UNESCO supports and promotes.
(3.3) At this session of the General Conference we shall be reflecting on some of the major issues that now define the  world’s educational, cultural, scientific and technical agenda, seeking to build a future with less poverty and less suffering,  with a better quality of education and of life, with greater cultural strength and greater opportunities, so as to both transform  and preserve our world. That is our common task, which we have to achieve by means of a shared conception of ethics and  morality. UNESCO’s agenda, as expressed in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, is focused on the essential social  imperatives that determine the equality, well-being and happiness of all human beings. The Strategy clearly states that these  challenges, in education, culture, science and communication, also constitute ethical challenges, since they are also  objectives that touch the soul of every human being. Consequently, we wish to congratulate the Director-General and his  team on the excellent work that has gone into the preparation of this draft strategy, which will surely be a decisive factor in  the renewal of our Organization.
(3.4) The Dakar Framework for Action is a coherent educational and cultural proposal to which the Government of El  Salvador wholeheartedly subscribes. It is our belief that the Dakar document needs to be implemented in tandem with the  other programmes, strategic thrusts and cross-cutting themes that make up the Strategy. The Major Project in the Field of  Education in Latin America and the Caribbean, begun in the early 1980s, was the expression of a set determination and an  integrated vision that were the precursors of the Jomtien Conference. Twenty years later, our region is faced with the  challenge of updating PROMEDLAC and bringing together in a single proposal all of our social, cultural, educational,  scientific and technological objectives, so that Latin America and the Caribbean can, as they did two decades ago, foster  universal social and educational progress. Sustainable human development requires high-quality education. Educational  quality, in a globalized and constantly changing world, also requires continual experimentation in order to ensure  innovation and improved practices, particularly at the kindergarten and elementary levels. We therefore welcome the  Strategy’s proposal of support for innovative practices.
(3.5) The El Salvador Ministry of Education is carrying out its own programme, called “Escuela 10”, of  experimentation, development and strengthening of pedagogical and social relevance. This programme encourages the  participation of the educational community so as to respond to the need for students’ well-rounded development in their  social and local environment. The Associated Schools provide an important opportunity to promote, in conjunction with the  National Commissions, the development, adaptation and testing of successful educational practices that will permanently  enhance the educational quality of our schools. For this reason we support the opportunities offered by the Associated  Schools Project of providing an integrated framework of action that effectively contributes to quality education and of  continuing the analysis of the concepts of quality education contained in the Delors Report. There can be no doubt that  quality education is part of a quality society, which is unthinkable without a distinct identity. Culture and identity, subject  as they are to constant change and rapid interchange, carry with them the challenge of enhancing and sustaining one’s own  cultural and social identity, without which there is little possibility of being able to contribute to, or participate in, universal  culture.
(3.6) Our cultural heritage is threatened from many quarters, but we see that UNESCO’s Major Programme IV calls for  an effort on several fronts to protect and preserve the cultural heritage in all its expressions and manifestations as well as in  its diversity and plurality. We welcome the Director-General’s call for a study to be carried out on the heritage in danger  and we propose to this Conference that it should be remembered, in the declaration on cultural diversity, that Major  Programme IV envisages the production and publication of a catalogue of the endangered cultural heritage of every country,  regardless of whether it is or may be part of the world’s universal heritage. Such an initiative would be an important  contribution to safeguarding and promoting cultural heritage at the national and regional levels, in all its diversity and  reality, as well as of great benefit to education on the cultural heritage.
(3.7) The objectives of the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007 seek to ensure that the cross-cutting themes are  implemented in a coordinated, effective and efficient way with the least possible dispersion of resources. The Culture of  Peace, environmental promotion and protection, water education, etc. are all initiatives and programmes that support the  sustainability of our communities and the strengthening of the social capital of our peoples. In consequence, we support the  inclusion of a reference to the International Water Year, which, we believe, is indispensable for strengthening the Strategy  and those parts of it that relate to education.
(3.8) We know that no reform process can be completed in a day. The experience of our educational reform shows that  delegation of authority and decentralization are processes that need support. The main effort has been directed towards  delegation of authority, which has its own logic and dynamic and also, as the Director-General points out, its costs. The  reform has made satisfactory progress and we are in agreement with the countries that wish to continue with its  implementation. However, we believe that the success of decentralization depends on an appropriate delegation of  programme management authority to field offices, in close cooperation with Member States. We therefore consider
67  GRULAC’s proposal - to strengthen economic, technical and staff assistance - an appropriate one provided that equitable  geographic representation is ensured so that the programme can be properly implemented at Headquarters and away from  Headquarters. Thank you.
4.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency.
4.2 I now invite His Excellency Mr Rudy Demotte, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sport of Belgium to take the  floor.
5.1 M. DEMOTTE (Belgique) :   Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, j’ai l’honneur de m’exprimer au nom de l’Union  européenne. Les pays qui lui sont associés - la Bulgarie, Chypre, l’Estonie, la Hongrie, la Lettonie, la Lituanie, Malte, la  Pologne, la République tchèque, la Roumanie, la Slovaquie et la Turquie - se joignent à cette déclaration.
5.2 Permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter de votre élection à la présidence de cette  Conférence. Nous sommes convaincus que votre riche expérience est le garant du succès de nos travaux.
5.3 Monsieur le Président, les attentats terroristes du 11 septembre nous ont tous profondément choqués. Ces actes  effroyables constituent une attaque non seulement contre les Etats-Unis, mais contre l’humanité tout entière, et les  valeurs et libertés qui nous sont communes à tous. L’Union européenne a exprimé sa solidarité avec les Etats-Unis et  coopérera avec eux dans le cadre de la résolution 1368 du Conseil de sécurité.
5.4 Dans le même temps, le Conseil européen a lancé un appel à la communauté internationale pour la poursuite,  dans toutes les enceintes multilatérales, du dialogue et de la négociation en vue de construire un monde de paix, de droit  et de tolérance. A cet égard, le Conseil européen a souligné la nécessité de combattre toute dérive nationaliste, raciste et  xénophobe, comme il rejette toute assimilation du terrorisme avec le monde arabe et musulman.
5.5 S’agissant de notre Organisation, force est de constater que ces attaques portent atteinte aux principes mêmes  qui sont à son origine et aux valeurs fondamentales inscrites dans son Acte constitutif. Plus que jamais, il importe que  l’UNESCO joue le rôle qui lui a été confié en matière de connaissance, de compréhension mutuelle et de respect des  droits humains pour, favorisant ce que nos fondateurs ont appelé la " féconde diversité de leurs cultures ", amener les  êtres humains à mieux vivre ensemble et à partager. Nous saluons à cet égard les pistes de réflexion ouvertes par le  Directeur général lors de la dernière session du Conseil exécutif, pistes qui nous semblent porteuses d’une meilleure  affirmation des valeurs originelles de l’UNESCO ;
5.6 Monsieur le Président, l’éducation est la base de tout : elle est un droit pour chaque être humain. De même,  l’éducation aux droits humains dans leur acception la plus large, aux valeurs fondamentales, à l’éthique et à la  citoyenneté sont un devoir pour nos Etats. Le suivi de Dakar, défi capital pour l’UNESCO, se doit d’intégrer ces  principes, ainsi que les quatre piliers du rapport Delors : apprendre non seulement à connaître, à faire et à être, mais  aussi à vivre ensemble. La question de l’alphabétisation et de l’éducation des filles doit bénéficier d’une attention  prioritaire. L’UNESCO, qui a joué un rôle pionnier en la matière, doit également davantage dialoguer avec la société  civile. L’Union européenne, dans cet esprit, ne peut qu’encourager l’UNESCO à mettre au point une méthodologie pour  la révision des manuels scolaires afin de promouvoir une culture de la paix et de la tolérance par l’éradication des  préjugés fondés sur la " race ", la religion, la langue, le sexe ou les visions trop étroitement nationales de l’histoire.
5.7 Monsieur le Président, la communication et les moyens techniques ont fait des progrès considérables. Soyons  attentifs à l’exclusion de ceux qui n’y ont pas accès. Afin que le plus grand nombre possède les compétences  nécessaires pour vivre et travailler dans la société de l’information et de la connaissance, nous devons avoir en  permanence à l’esprit les valeurs de coopération et donc de partage qui sous-tendent l’existence de notre organisation.
5.8 Monsieur le Président, cela m’amène au domaine des sciences, dont les progrès impressionnants rendent  d’autant plus nécessaires les valeurs que je viens d’évoquer. Nos ministres des sciences devront les avoir à l’esprit lors  de leur rencontre durant cette session. Nous estimons que la réflexion sur l’éthique des sciences, notamment en ce qui  concerne la bioéthique et l’utilisation des techniques d’information et de communication, devrait conduire à des codes  de conduite préservant la liberté et la dignité humaine.
5.9 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de la culture, l’Union européenne est attachée à l’adoption, par cette  Conférence générale, de la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle. Cette Déclaration, qui se fonde sur le respect des  droits de l’homme, traduit les principes nécessaires de la compréhension mutuelle entre les êtres humains dans ce qui  touche à leur identité la plus profonde. La diversité culturelle constitue un facteur de développement. La mise en œuvre  du plan d’action est donc pour nous de la plus grande importance.
5.10 Le patrimoine, dans toutes ses expressions, est intimement lié à l’identité des individus et des peuples, et sa  protection constitue un devoir de respect à leur égard. Sa promotion, quant à elle, est facteur d’une meilleure  compréhension mutuelle. Il convient que l’UNESCO, compte tenu également des graves atteintes récentes au  patrimoine culturel, poursuive son action, notamment sur le plan normatif. La Convention concernant la protection du  patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel, dont on s’apprête à célébrer l’an prochain le 30e anniversaire, a montré sa  vitalité et son adaptabilité. Sa mise en oeuvre constitue un moyen précieux de promouvoir une meilleure connaissance  de toutes les cultures et régions du monde par la protection, la préservation et la mise en valeur du patrimoine.
5.11 Monsieur le Président, nous sommes attachés à la liberté d’expression, en général, et des médias en particulier.  C’est de cette volonté de mieux connaître l’autre, dans le respect des identités, que participent les travaux sur la  promotion et l’usage du multilinguisme et sur l’accès universel au cyberespace. Dans cet esprit, l’UNESCO se doit de  contribuer substantiellement à la préparation du Sommet mondial sur la société de l’information.
5.12 Monsieur le Président, ces défis, notre Organisation doit les relever avec des ressources que nous savons  limitées. Pendant les deux premières années de son mandat, notre Directeur général s’est attaché avec courage et  persévérance à réformer la structure de l’Organisation et à redéfinir ses priorités. Nous reconnaissons que cela a  entraîné des sacrifices et continue d’exiger des efforts de la part du personnel. L’Union européenne félicite le Directeur  général pour les progrès accomplis en matière de rationalisation et de modernisation et lui renouvelle son soutien dans  la poursuite du processus engagé. Les économies résultant de la rationalisation des structures administratives doivent  permettre, aujourd’hui, de consacrer davantage de ressources aux programmes. L’instrument rénové doit maintenant  démontrer sa capacité de mettre en oeuvre les nouveaux programmes sur le terrain avec une efficacité accrue, au  moment où l’Organisation est confrontée à de nouveaux défis. C’est le gage à donner pour assurer la nécessaire relance  de l’Organisation et susciter un intérêt accru chez ses Etats membres. Je vous remercie.
6. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your very good speech on behalf of the European Union. I now  invite His Excellency Mr Hilary Benn, M.P., Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for International Development of  the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to take the floor.
7.1 Mr BENN (United Kingdom):   May I begin by offering the full support of the United Kingdom to the statement just made by Belgium on  behalf of the European Union, and as this is the first meeting of UNESCO since the events of 11 September, may I  express our sympathies for all those who have lost their lives since those terrible events. We have all had cause to think  a great deal in the last four weeks, and it is particularly appropriate that we should do so at UNESCO since it was our  predecessors who, when they created this institution in 1945 – the very men and women who had fought and survived a  war against extremism and intolerance – wrote these words into our Constitution:  “since wars begin in the minds of men it is in the minds of men   that the defences of peace must be constructed”.
7.2 Never, I believe, have those principles been needed more than they are today; and the best way to honour them,  as an institution, is through practical action. The world has changed in many ways since those words were written.  There are now six billion of us living on this very small and very fragile planet, 80% of our fellow men and women  living in the developing world. And while the average daily income in member countries of the Organisation for  Economic Cooperation and Development is $55, half of the world’s population live on an income of less than $2 a day  and one in five live in abject poverty on less than $1 a day. Moreover, poverty, inequality and injustice are the biggest  moral and political challenges that we face; not just because they provide a fertile ground for extremism, instability and  conflict, but also because they create refugees, cause disease and ill health, limit educational opportunity, and damage  the environment. And the world can have no secure future without reducing poverty, inequality and injustice.
7.3 So we welcome the Director-General’s proposal that UNESCO should have a strategy for the elimination of  poverty; and to do this we believe that UNESCO must participate more fully in the wider reform of the United Nations  and build effective partnerships with other agencies. We say this because the United Kingdom wishes to see UNESCO  make a strong and distinctive contribution in particular to the achievement of the International Development Targets for  Education. The main thrust of UNESCO’s work must be a commitment to ensure that the 113 million children of  primary age who do not now go to school can find a classroom and a teacher who will open a window on the world –  because there is no more important investment that we can make as a world community in the next generation than to  invest in their education. So we will continue to play our part in the process begun at Dakar. We look to the High Level  Group meeting here in Paris later this month to agree on action and achieve real progress towards this most important of  goals, Education for All.
7.4 Now, having set these goals, how do we know whether UNESCO is making a difference? Not just whether an  individual programme is delivering results, but to what extent UNESCO is achieving its wider objectives. We need to  be able as an Organization to measure that difference, which is why the role of the Institute for Statistics is so important  both in providing internationally agreed indicators of progress enabling us to know when we have succeeded in getting  all those 113 million children into primary school, but also in informing international debate about policy. In the past,  UNESCO has had difficulty in achieving its full potential, for reasons with which we are all familiar. But as an active  Member Government, we want UNESCO to prove that it can make that difference, and to communicate this effectively  through national governments, through the media and through civil society as a whole. We are therefore greatly  encouraged that the Organization now has a determined and reform-minded Director-General, who has strengthened  management, developed a more focused approach, and set in train a process of change that will address the  Organization’s immediate problems.
7.5 But I believe that UNESCO still needs to work more closely with other agencies in support of a United  Nations-wide development strategy – particularly on poverty reduction. There is justifiable criticism when many United  Nations development agencies – World Health Organization, Food and Agriculture Organization, UNESCO, United  Nations Development Programme and others – still seem reluctant to work together. UNESCO must also examine the  overlap between its mandate and those of new organizations that have been created since UNESCO was founded, such  as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, the United Nations Environment Programme and the World  Intellectual Property Organization. For we cannot afford to waste resources if international organizations are duplicating  efforts in, for example, copyright or environmental science. And we also want to see a greater proportion of UNESCO’s  budget spent on programmes rather than on administration.
7.6 In conclusion, Mr President, it is all too easy – for some – to dwell on the weaknesses and the failures of the  United Nations system. But the United Nations and its agencies, UNESCO included, are the best we have – which is  why we all have a responsibility to make sure that they are as effective as possible. And when we are angered by the  injustice, the inequality and the poverty in the world, we should also remember what we have been able to achieve since  UNESCO’s Constitution was written at the end of the Second World War. During that time, life expectancy in  developing countries has risen by almost 20 years, infant mortality has halved, more than 80% of the world’s children  are enrolled in primary school, having a window on the world opened for them – and we have also learned a great deal  about what works. Experience has shown us that progress is possible – provided there is the political will. The challenge  to UNESCO and its sister agencies is to build on those past achievements as we respond to the challenges that lie ahead,  because it is by the achievements yet to come that the next generations will judge us.
8.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your very constructive suggestions and point of focus.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٨,٢ א א،אא ، א א  .،.א
(9.1) Mr AL-SHAGRA (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Excellencies, heads and members of  delegations, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, I am pleased to begin my address by congratulating you, Mr President, on  the confidence that the General Conference has demonstrated in you by electing you President of its current session. I am  certain that your great experience and expertise in the fields of education, culture and science fully qualify you to assume  this responsibility that has so fittingly been entrusted to you, and that you will thus make an active contribution to attaining  the objectives of this Conference. I take this opportunity to commend the active efforts exerted by UNESCO and  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO, to fulfil the Organization’s mission and attain its lofty objectives,  especially with regard to review of the Organization’s structure and methods of work.
(9.2) We agree with the Director-General on the need to adopt the measures proposed within the framework of the  Draft Medium-Term Strategy. However, what we fear is that there may still be a gap – as in the past – between the  formulation of plans and their implementation. What is regrettable is that there are still more than 500 million people who  risk extermination through hunger. Similarly, environmental pollution and freshwater shortages are making development  actually regress in many countries. Then there is the increase in disasters of human origin, such as wars and embargoes. All  this underscores that what is needed is the political will to implement the policies and strategies that are adopted to cope  with the future and its numerous challenges and changes. Mr President, we have examined United Nations General  Assembly resolution 55/47, which designates UNESCO as the lead agency for the International Decade for a Culture of  Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World (2001-2010). Eight fields of work have been identified: spreading  the culture of peace through education; sustainable economic and social development; respect for all human rights; equality  between women and men; democratic participation; understanding, tolerance and solidarity; participatory communication  and the free flow of information and knowledge; and international peace and security. While we support these moves, I am  bound to recall the catastrophe of human origin that my country, Iraq, has had to endure as a result of a cultural, economic,  scientific and medical embargo which is now entering its second decade, which has prevented scientific and educational  development, and which has led to the death of more than one and a half million children, most of them schoolchildren, not  to mention women and elderly people; the number of such deaths increases day after day. All the countries of the world,  which are represented in this Conference of yours, as well as the Organization’s Administration are well aware of the  doings of the “661 Committee”, which has prevented the shipment of pencils and paper to Iraqi pupils, and has also  prevented the import of any kind of educational supplies. These decisions, which prevent the provision of supplies for the  everyday needs and education of our children, are arbitrary and unjust. From this rostrum, we reiterate our right to demand  the lifting of this iniquitous embargo that has been imposed on Iraq in order that we may ensure the provision of the  prerequisites for the educational process, in accordance with the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations, the  Constitution of UNESCO and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
(9.3) On the basis of our beliefs as Muslims, we are of the view that peace must be founded on right, justice and  equality rather than on arbitrariness, hegemony and submission. In this connection, we are bound to stress Iraq’s position of  principle with regard to the events of September and the consequences thereof. The repercussions in the world in general  and the West in particular make it incumbent upon all officials who understand their responsibilities towards their own  people and nation and towards humanity in general to monitor those repercussions in order to gauge their significance, and  on that basis to draw up the positions of their own State and people, and not simply to treat the event in isolation. Here we  recall that all the hostile attitudes adopted by others in the past against Arabs and Muslims have never made those people  into fanatics who harass others as they walk in the streets of their towns and cities. We are today in greater need than ever
72  of wisdom rather than force. If only the rulers would try wisdom just once so that the world might live in security and  stability! This applies to the appeal to a number of internationally proclaimed ethical principles relating to tolerance and  human rights, and the responsibility of present generations for future generations. We call for human rights to be put into  practice, supplemented and abided by, to be given practical expression and stimulus. No body or State should be able to lay  sole claim to enjoy human rights or to issue certificates in this regard to others. Human rights are not a commodity that can  be bought and sold. Here I should like to stress the need to find a clear international definition of the term “terrorism”; we  call upon UNESCO to play its natural role in undertaking this important task.
(9.4) Here I must once again recall the violations of their educational, scientific and culture rights that have been  endured by Iraqis and Palestinians, whether as a result of the continuation of the iniquitous embargo imposed on Iraq or of  the Zionist occupation, with its oppressive practices in Palestine for over half a century. We also support the preservation of  cultural and linguistic diversity. We call attention to the principal dangers of globalization, which is aimed at dissolving the  personality and cultures of nations, and its role in the interaction of civilizations, which forms the basis of the culture of  peace that is upheld by our Organization, UNESCO.
(9.5) We support the reform efforts being undertaken by the Director-General, and express the wish that these efforts  should not be at the expense of the programmes relating to needy countries or countries labouring under particular  circumstances. We also stress the importance of ensuring the proper representation of countries by filling vacancies in an  equitable manner.
(9.6) As one of the countries that adopted the Dakar Framework for Action, Iraq supports the efforts being made under  the programme to carry out the recommendations thereof with regard to education for all, and recalls the need to implement  the decision of that conference relating to the lifting of the embargo on the education and childhood sector in Iraq, and we  thank the Director-General for the contents of his letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations concerning this  matter.
(9.7) In the field of science, supporting, as we do, the Organization’s appeal to Member States to observe ethical  guidelines with respect to science, we urge you to condemn practices involving unethical exploitation of science, such as  the use of depleted uranium against human beings, in particular in Iraq.
(9.8) With regard to culture, we express our support for the initiative announced by the Director-General for the  safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem.
(9.9) Concerning the communication and information programme, we support the efforts of the Organization to  enhance the free flow of and access to information.
(9.10) Mr President, esteemed Members, in conclusion, I should like to reiterate my confidence that this Conference will  be successful, and express the hope that the esteemed organizations and individuals participating in it may arrive at a  position condemning the continuation of the embargo against a country which is known for its culture and ancient  civilization, the country that invented writing, which is the beginning of sciences of information and history. This embargo  leads to the death of more than 10,000 children every month; in other words, 7,000 children will pass away during the time  this Conference is in session. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you.   :א ١٠,١ א   .א،
(10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Minister.  (The President continues in English)
10.2 I now invite His Excellency Mr Mikhaïl Khvostov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belarus. Sir, the floor is  yours.
(11.1) Mr KHVOSTOV (Belarus) (Translation from the Russian):   Mr President, Mr Director-General. This 31st session of the General Conference is taking place in exceptional  political circumstances. The monstrous acts of terrorism committed on 11 September in New York and Washington and the  military action launched in Afghanistan have changed the face of the international situation, raising with the utmost  acuteness the question of the need to unite the forces of the international community to combat the global evil of  international terrorism and, above all, its political, economic and social causes. The United Nations Year of Dialogue  among Civilizations was in its own way an anticipation by the international community of the crisis facing the world.  Unfortunately, that constructive initiative could not avert the terrible tragedy which we have all witnessed.
(11.2) The international community must now do everything possible to protect everyone in every part of the world  from terrorism. The efforts to be made in that direction must be systematic, they must be effective and, I would particularly  like to stress, they must be measured. It is unacceptable to shift the guilt and responsibility of specific individuals and  groups onto entire peoples and States. Apprehensively watching the military operations in Afghanistan, the world is already  beginning to realize that the problem of terrorism, as a component part of the problem of violence, cannot be solved solely  by the use of force.
(11.3) Mr President, we consider that, in the search for appropriate solutions to problems of a global nature, a special  role devolves upon UNESCO, as an organization for intellectual cooperation whose action is long-term and is aimed at  gradually changing the consciousness of humanity for the purpose of rooting out the causes of violence, and of terrorism in  particular. Today the most important directions for UNESCO’s action to take within its fields of competence are towards  upholding cultural diversity under the circumstances of globalization, solving the ethical problems connected with the  “genetic revolution” and providing access for all to a decent basic education. We note with satisfaction the success of the  process of reforming UNESCO, a process firmly and unwaveringly pursued by the Director-General, which extends from  the optimization of the Secretariat’s structure to an in-depth reconsideration of the Organization’s role, and which  facilitates a readaptation to the changes taking place in the world. The projects set out in the Medium-Term Strategy and  the biennial Programme and Budget fully reflect the essence of the reforms which have been carried out.
(11.4) As a Member of the Executive Board, Belarus has done its part to prepare these projects. Our country attaches  great importance to UNESCO’s standard-setting activity, and we regard the draft declaration on cultural diversity as of  great significance. The declaration will surely become a benchmark for governments as they formulate national policy in  the area of culture. The preparation of a new international standard-setting instrument for the safeguarding of the intangible  cultural heritage would serve a similar purpose.
(11.5) UNESCO’s experience has proved most useful for Belarus with regard to the preparation and carrying out of the  reform of its national education system. Specific targets in this area, as defined by the Dakar Forum, include improving the  quality of education by diversifying its content and methods, and propagating universal values in order to promote  democracy and peace. International thematic forums and round tables at ministerial level are very useful ways of working  out the lines of emphasis for activities. It is to be hoped that the Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity, conceived as one  form of flexible partnership between the private and State sectors and civil society, takes account, in setting tasks for itself,  both of the decisions of the Stockholm Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies for Development and of the  discussions of round tables. We regard the project relating to Mir Castle, a World Heritage site, as one example of such an  integrated approach to cultural development. We are certain that the round table which is to discuss problems of bioethics  during the present session will have a positive effect both as regards the harmonization of attitudes towards the problems at  national and regional level and as regards UNESCO’s future activities as a whole. In this connection, I should like to draw  attention to the fruitful nature of the International Congress on Science and Education, held in Minsk with the assistance of  the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Science, in Venice. This forum, in our view, conducted an effective examination of the  problems involved in the implementation of the decisions of the World Conference on Science at regional level. I am  convinced that our Organization should also step up its cooperation with other specialized international institutions. Thus,  for example, in relation to the preservation of biodiversity, UNESCO has clearly defined areas of action in which Belarus is  willing to play an active part. Together with our neighbours, we have submitted two draft resolutions aimed at expanding  regional cooperation in Polesye, on the frontier between Belarus, Ukraine and Poland. This region is a unique natural site,  very little affected by human activity. I believe UNESCO should expand the range of social and professional levels and  groups that it reaches in order to increase further the effectiveness of its action. In particular, promoting dialogue among  religions must become one of the subjects to which the Organization constantly devotes its attention.
(11.6) Mr President, harnessing national intellectual potential to greater effect and putting specific scientific  achievements into application in industry are goals which have been set by the President and Government of Belarus. In the  context of the changes taking place in Belarus today, the experience of other UNESCO Member States, the pooled  experience of our Organization, is most useful to us, and Belarus, for its part, is ready to make its contribution to  international cooperation within the framework of the Organization. Allow me, in concluding this brief statement, to assure  you that the Government of Belarus intends to take practical steps in continued support of UNESCO’s most useful action,  whereby the world’s intellectual potential is being successfully combined and focused on the search for successful solutions  to the most complex tasks of modern times. Thank you for your attention.
12. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now invite His Excellency Mr Enrique Granados Moreno, distinguished  Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Costa Rica. Excellency, please.
(13.1) Mr GRANADOS MORENO (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):   Good afternoon, Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Mr Deputy Director-General,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, ministers and ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour and a  privilege to appear before this assembly where each and every one of us are travelling companions and co-workers:  travelling companions, because the world of culture affords the most exciting and marvellous, though most unpredictable,  of all voyages; co-workers, because our work has thousands of facets, which are not always properly understood or  appreciated. We all know that there are still many people who have not been able to understand how culture, education and  development are interrelated, and we all know that there are others for whom ignorance is a turbulent river from which they  draw great advantage and which, for that reason, they are in no hurry to see calmed.
(13.2) As regards Costa Rica, our Ministry of Culture has just celebrated its thirtieth anniversary: 30 years of  conscientious effort, at the cost of great sacrifices, in its triple role as facilitator, creator and disseminator in all aspects of  the cultural affairs of the nation. As creator, since thanks to its work Costa Rica now has a cultural and artistic  infrastructure and superstructure which, though insufficient for our objectives and goals, are enviable. As facilitator, since  such is the role the Ministry has taken on with respect to private initiatives in the field of culture, which are not only  welcomed but encouraged and fostered. We take the view that art must be the expression of a free society and that if we  desire a free society, it must be guaranteed not just education, but also the freedom to create and the freedom to give  expression to that creation. And as disseminator, since the Ministry firmly believes that helping to disseminate different  ideas, different points of view, various creative forms and various opinions is the right way to enrich society.
(13.3) Yes, Costa Rica is proud of all it has accomplished in the cultural and educational sphere. However, we are quite  clear on the goals we have yet to achieve, our current objectives and the challenges we shall have to take up very shortly.  UNESCO has been a valuable partner in the quest to attain these goals and to achieve these ambitious objectives. We take  part in projects with UNESCO in the conviction that good results will be achieved. It is to help us to achieve these goals  and to pursue new and even more ambitious objectives that we have remained in UNESCO: an organization in which we  participate with the conviction that international forums are open arenas for the exchange of ideas. We participate in the  belief that we can benefit from that participation, with the hope of obtaining respect in the treatment, experience in the  exchanges and quality in the joint projects.
(13.4) Costa Rica is a country whose educational vocation is deeply rooted, as it goes back to the time of the Spanish  colony and was reinvigorated in the early years of our existence as an independent country, and now, 180 years later, it has  strengthened into the most significant joint effort undertaken by the State and people of Costa Rica. Thanks to this long- standing historical commitment, Costa Rica has now achieved very high educational indicators, which stand as evidence of  the success of our efforts to provide an education characterized by excellence and equity. Our education system helps to  turn out men and women who are capable of clear critical thinking – creative, highly participatory individuals possessing  an all-round education that is their shield and their strength in a highly technical world that is changing at a dizzying speed.  Costa Rica is in 41st position in the world on the Human Development Index, and in second place as far as Latin America  is concerned.
(13.5) For that reason, as one more link in the chain of efforts being made to provide our students with an excellent all- round education, the people of Costa Rica decided, 13 years ago, to make a huge economic and educational effort and,  sacrificing other important areas of national development, enthusiastically initiated an innovative programme of  educational informatics. The programme was based on a solid pedagogical and epistemological foundation which, unlike  existing systems, incorporated computer technology as part of an approach focusing on the development of creativity and  the stimulation of cognitive processes. It secured immediate benefit to the community and the more effective integration of  Costa Rica into the world market.
(13.6) Thirteen years after its establishment, Costa Rica’s educational informatics programme has received international  plaudits on several occasions as a flagship programme for the Americas on account of its successes in improving teaching  standards and the innovative focus it has provided since its inception. This programme, which was a decade ahead of the  industrialized countries, now reaches 56% of primary school pupils and 94% of secondary school students. It has already  reached about 1,250,000 children, teachers and members of the community, a surprising figure for a country whose total  population amounts to about 3.8 million. The immigrant population, around half a million strong, also benefits from the  programme.
(13.7) An enormous effort has been required of the people of Costa Rica to reach these goals and provide greater  opportunities for an all-round education that includes computer skills, in keeping with UNESCO’s policy as expressed in  the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. One of the most important recent actions was taken four years ago, when –  despite the economic constraints faced by a small developing country – Costa Rica contracted an international loan from  the Central American Bank for Economic Integration to strengthen and broaden the computers-for-schools programme  through the purchase and installation of 6,560 computers in 395 educational centres, including some very remote rural  schools.
(13.8) Relations between UNESCO and Costa Rica have long been fraternal, committed and fruitful. The Organization’s  support for the effort by Costa Rica to reach the highest educational goals has been ongoing and fruitful, as is shown by the  assistance of Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, and the Deputy Director-General, Mr Marcio Barbosa,  in settling a recent dispute with the company that won the contract for the programme I have just referred to.
(13.9) I should like to end my statement by reiterating the Costa Rican people’s commitment to education, science and  culture and the protection of biodiversity as basic weapons for achieving the fullest possible material and spiritual  development of humankind. I should also like to congratulate the Director-General and his Executive Office on their efforts  to reform and give new impetus to UNESCO, and I emphasize once again that the Costa Rican people are ready and willing  to cooperate in those efforts. Thank you very much. In addition, I want to congratulate the Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Ms Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux, on the ideas she shared with us this morning, in particular on the subject of our  commitment to the eradication of poverty, which is such a painful and humiliating element of the human condition. Thank  you very much.
14. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Mr Minister. I now call upon His Excellency Dr Han Wan-Sang, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister  of Education and Human Resources Development of the Republic of Korea. Your Excellency, please.
15.1 Mr HAN WAN-SANG (Republic of Korea):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, I would like to join previous speakers in  congratulating you, Mr. Ahmad Jalali, on your election as President of the General Conference at this 31st session. My  tribute also goes to the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his staff for their special efforts in drafting the  Medium-Term Strategy and the biennial Programme and Budget which surely reflect the commitment to reforming the  Organization.
15.2 Mr President, poverty, conflicts, HIV/AIDS and terrorism, in particular the recent terrorist attacks in the United  States, call for our serious attention and demand our combined efforts. Terrorism constitutes a threat to international  security as well as a crime against humanity. International organizations such as UNESCO should play the key role in  concerted international efforts to eradicate terrorism. We firmly believe that UNESCO has successfully led a culture of  peace campaign in the last decade and again we strongly endorse UNESCO’s continued efforts for the culture of peace.
15.3 Last year, President Kim Dae-jung, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, initiated a peace process in the Korean  peninsula through his historic trip to North Korea. In this context, my Government takes note with appreciation that  UNESCO has identified the Korean peninsula as the peace target for increased, coordinated efforts in its strategy. It is  indeed noteworthy that the inter-Korean ministerial talks for peace took place at the very time when the world was  shocked by a hideous act of terrorism.
15.4 I would like to turn to the draft Strategy for the next six years. The Korean delegation fully endorses the  themes of the Strategy. We believe that peace and human development, along with the eradication of poverty and the  effective use of information and communication technologies, are already key factors in resolving the current complex  global issues. We hope that all these themes receive due attention in major programmes.
15.5 Regarding education, the Republic of Korea emphasizes the importance of history education. The Korean  delegation strongly endorses the recommendation of the Executive Board that UNESCO support initiatives by Member  States to carry out the bilateral or multilateral revision of textbooks on history and civic education. History is by no  means solely about the past – it definitely shapes the future. Teaching a distorted version of history, therefore, will have  a negative impact on our young generations and undermine cooperation among nations in the region as well. In this  regard, Korea and Japan have agreed to establish a Joint Historical Research Association, as proposed by Prime
78  Minister Koizumi of Japan during his 15 October visit to Korea, on the premise that a true record of past history should  be achieved. I hope that this type of joint historical research will bear fruitful results, thereby allowing for the  establishment of a proper education in history on the basis of mutual understanding of historical events. In this way, I  hope that Korea and Japan will provide an exemplary model of international cooperation concerning the teaching of  history and, furthermore, usher in together a new future-oriented era of bilateral cooperation in the twenty-first century.
15.6 With regard to the Man and the Biosphere Programme, we have been working on the project for establishing a  transboundary biosphere reserve in the Korea Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), an ecologically unique and valuable reserve,  uncontaminated by humans for almost half a century. We request that UNESCO support this project by providing  expertise and drawing on its competencies to bring about fruitful cooperation in the region.
15.7 This year has been proclaimed the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Many intellectual  forums have actively promoted and pursued dialogue on various subjects. We believe that this initiative should  continue. As a part of the Dialogue projects, the Korean National Commission for UNESCO will be organizing the  International Conference on Democracy and East Asian Traditions in June 2002 in Seoul. The meeting will surely  stimulate a dialogue among three intellectual traditions, Liberalism, Confucianism, and Buddhism, with a focus on  democracy in East Asia.
15.8 Another area we give priority to is the protection of the intangible cultural heritage. In order to contribute to  this effort, we have organized the annual International Training Workshop on the Living Human Treasures system since
1998 in conjunction with UNESCO. At the last session of the General Conference, the Korean Government proposed to  establish the “Arirang Prize”, a prize for masterpieces of the oral and intangible cultural heritage. And now I am very  pleased to announce to you that the award of the Prize will take place during this General Conference.
15.9 Lastly, with the close cooperation of UNESCO and the support of Member States, the Asia-Pacific Centre of  Education for International Understanding launched its ambitious programmes this year. Continuous support and active  participation by UNESCO and Member States in the Centre’s programmes will be highly appreciated.
15.10 In conclusion, Mr President, I assure you of the Korean Government’s willingness to join the concerted efforts  towards cultivating a culture of peace and shared prosperity for all. Conscious as we are of the universal values and  principles UNESCO stands for, we will do our best to preserve and enhance the integrity and integration of all  humanity. After all, UNESCO is the best place to begin and to carry out such a mission. Thank you for your attention.
16. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency, especially for your good news about a future conference on democracy in Asia. May I  now invite His Excellency, Mr Pham Gia Khiêm, Deputy Prime Minister of Viet Nam to take the floor.
17.1 Mr PHAM (Viet Nam):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, I  would like to congratulate you on your election to the high post of President of this General Conference of UNESCO. I  believe that under your able leadership the General Conference will be crowned with success.
17.2 The rapid scientific and technological advances and globalization have provided us all with both challenges  and opportunities. The profound changes in the world over the past 50 years since the foundation of UNESCO have  testified to the prevailing trend of peace, cooperation and sustainable development of our time. In this context,  UNESCO is expected to play more fully its intellectual role both in theory and in practice.
17.3 In an increasingly interdependent world, true cooperation needs to be based on equality, democracy, mutual  respect for national sovereignty, and a spirit of partnership. The terrorist attack of 11 September in the United States and  the ongoing military strikes in Afghanistan by that country are causing deep concern to the international community.  Viet Nam strongly condemns all kinds of international terrorist acts and supports efforts taken in conformity with the  United Nations Charter and international law. These developments have more than ever highlighted UNESCO’s  perspective of dialogue, tolerance, mutual understanding and respect in international relations. We believe that those  issues must be an essential component of education in general and education for a ‘culture of peace’ in particular. In this  spirit, the theme ‘Learning to live together’ of the 46th International Conference on Education bears great significance  and should be expressed in all UNESCO’s programmes.
17.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of and the issues for deliberation at this Conference have, in our opinion,  basically satisfied the expectations of Member States in the new context. The Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007  encompasses UNESCO’s expected objectives for the given period. For developing countries like Viet Nam, the  eradication of poverty, especially extreme poverty, and the application of scientific and technological advances to  development are issues of major concern, which call for greater cooperation among UNESCO member countries.
17.5 The comprehensive and intersectoral approach in the Medium-Term Strategy, which gives priority to the two  cross-cutting themes, is aimed in the right direction. We support the adoption of a declaration on cultural diversity,  which must be associated with full respect for national independence and sovereignty and the right of every nation to  make its own decisions on political, economic and cultural matters and human rights and to reject all forms of cultural  imposition and the misuse of cultural values for ill-motivated purposes. As firmly stated by President Jacques Chirac all  cultures are equal in dignity.
17.6 The swiftly changing world, with all its complexity, demands that UNESCO reform itself. The painstaking  self-improvement process requires strong determination. We salute UNESCO’s efforts, especially those made by the  Director-General and the Chairperson of the Executive Board in pursuit of greater efficiency, decentralization and  dynamism for the Organization.
17.7 Ladies and gentlemen, Viet Nam is willing to render further support to these endeavours as our National  Commission Secretariat and Committees are making efforts to honour the commitments laid down in the Framework  Agreement on Viet Nam-UNESCO cooperation for 2000-2003. We expect to benefit from UNESCO’s continued  cooperation and assistance in realizing the Dakar Forum recommendations to build a learning society, in preserving the  tangible and intangible cultural heritage and in the use of scientific and technological knowledge for development, with  due respect for ethics and humanism, as enshrined in the 1999 Budapest Declaration.
17.8 Ladies and gentlemen, Viet Nam is a peace-loving nation with a diverse culture and a time-honoured tradition  of national defence. It is the homeland of Ho Chi Minh, a great man of culture. Viet Nam proudly possesses a number  of cultural, natural and historical sites inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List and Hanoi, the country’s 990  year-old capital, was awarded with UNESCO Cities for Peace Prize in 1999. Many UNESCO programmes and  activities have been successfully carried out in Viet Nam and are highly valued by UNESCO leaders. This reflects the  strong commitment and close interest of the Vietnamese Government. They have been made possible thanks to the  active and creative participation of our local experts and specialists. With our experience in the implementation of  UNESCO-sponsored activities over the past years, we will work closely with other member countries to further  contribute to the work of UNESCO and translate the lofty purposes of this Organization into reality. With that in mind,  Viet Nam wishes to present its candidature for the next Executive Board, regarding this as an obligation of a member  country, and looks forward to enthusiastic support from all member countries. Thank you for your kind attention.
18. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. Now I am pleased to invite Her Excellency Mrs Valentina Matvienko, Deputy Prime  Minister of the Russian Federation. Madam, you have the floor.
(19.1) Ms MATVIENKO (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, declarations about UNESCO’s commitment to the high  ideals of solidarity and humanity have resounded from this platform for more than half a century. Today, at the 31st session  of the General Conference, they are more relevant than ever. We are all deeply alarmed by the world situation and share in  humanity’s general grief and its anxiety about tomorrow. At the same time, the words spoken in this hall on behalf of the  peoples of the world inspire confidence in the ultimate victory of good and reason. Today, as never before, the world  community has need of solidarity, confronted as it is with the monstrous challenge of international terrorism. This is also a  challenge to the fundamental values of UNESCO, one to which we must find a clear and appropriate answer.
(19.2) Russia did not learn about the nature of terrorism by hearsay. The time has come for a determined effort to create  a global system for counteracting the new threats and challenges, a question about which our country’s leaders have been  speaking in recent years. The nature and scale of these problems are such that they cannot be dealt with single-handed, even  by the world’s most powerful States. The efforts of the whole international community are required for that purpose, but we  do not yet have the necessary multilateral mechanisms. To set them up and bring them into operation constitutes a most  important task for the organizations within the United Nations system. In our view, UNESCO’s contribution should be to  work steadily to create a general atmosphere of total rejection of terrorism, whatever form it takes or whatever slogans it  shelters behind. In this connection, as our President, Vladimir Putin, has remarked, it would be wrong to speak today of a  war of civilizations and to equate Muslims in general with religious fanatics. That would be a great mistake. It is precisely  the implementation of UNESCO’s high ideals that will protect the world from the attempts of international terrorists to  divide humanity and to stir up a large-scale confrontation along ethnic or confessional lines. It is therefore extremely  important and opportune to step up UNESCO’s programme activity concerned with the promotion of tolerance and the  development of the dialogue between cultures during the next biennium. In this connection, I should like to draw your  attention to the celebration in 2003 of the third centenary of the foundation of our northern capital, Saint Petersburg, an  event which we see as forming an integral part of such a dialogue. It is, without doubt, a date of European significance, and  we call upon UNESCO to play an active part in the events associated with it.
(19.3) Support for regional projects on the culture of peace and national programmes in support of tolerance and the  prevention of extremism must remain at the top of the Organization’s agenda for the period ahead. In August of this year,  the Russian Government drew up and adopted a federal programme for the establishment of guidelines to promote a  tolerant outlook and prevent the development of extremism in Russian society. We know that similar programmes are being  developed in other countries. It would be right, in our view, for UNESCO to provide the coordination for such programmes  with a view to working out a single platform for the cultivation of a tolerant outlook worldwide. Russia is willing to share  with all interested countries and organizations the experience acquired in the course of the recently completed large-scale  project entitled “The Culture of Peace in Russia – Year 2000”. We should like to have UNESCO’s support for further  similar efforts, particularly with regard to the Northern Caucasus, where UNESCO’s role is highly significant.
(19.4) UNESCO undoubtedly has a key role to play in solving the problems of education and upbringing arising in an  age of globalization. Here too humanity has encountered an unforeseen challenge. As my country’s representative and as a  women, I cannot keep silent about this: the fundamentalists are trying to deprive one half of humanity of the right to  education. Our Organization cannot and must not remain indifferent to this problem.
(19.5) Russia is currently embarking upon the active modernization of its education system. What is involved is not just  the improvement of curricular or the humanization of education but the sensible introduction of new educational  information technologies. Education has been designated as one of Russia’s development priorities. For the first time in our  history, expenditure on education will outstrip that on national defence in the budget for 2002. We have thus opted in  favour of the country’s intellectual development, and we are counting on extending cooperation with UNESCO in this  sphere, in particular in relation to the implementation of the agreement signed today between the Government of Russia  and Mr Matsuura on the restoration of the education system in the Chechen Republic.
(19.6) Another priority area for UNESCO action in the age of globalization is that of investigating the questions of  ethics, scientific and technological progress and the establishment of global information systems. The Organization’s  authority and expertise must be duly employed to bring into effect the recommendations of the World Conference on  Science, especially those in the area of bioethics and research into the human genome. We fully support the Director- General’s efforts and initiatives in this area and are in favour of drawing up and adopting the relevant international  conventions as quickly as possible.
(19.7) We have a similar view of UNESCO’s role in preparing the forthcoming high-level international meeting on the  information society. We believe that it should be focused, first and foremost, on promoting the development of the ethics of  cyberspace. In this and many other matters we are in agreement with President Chirac, who addressed us last night.  Moreover, Russia is prepared to propose to UNESCO a programme involving the use of its space technology for  educational and cultural purposes. I must also tell you that the ideas behind the new “Information for All” Programme have  produced a great response in Russia and are being creatively developed.
(19.8) Lastly, I must note UNESCO’s leading role in affirming and upholding cultural diversity. This is essential in  order to prevent the globalization processes now actually taking place from depersonalizing humanity. Russia, together  with a large group of other countries, took an active part in the formulation of the draft declaration on cultural diversity,  and we call on the delegates to the General Conference to adopt this document. The world has recently witnessed the  barbaric destruction of a number of cultural and historical monuments. This makes it incumbent on UNESCO to establish  an effective mechanism for countering premeditated acts of destruction directed at the common cultural heritage of  humanity, and to work out the corresponding international legal basis.
(19.9) The world today has changed, and the need to ensure that humanity unites its efforts in the face of unprecedented  common threats is clearer now than ever before. In this connection, we would welcome the speediest possible return to  UNESCO by the United States of America. Such a step would be most timely.
(19.10) Mr President, over the past two years Russia has repeatedly demonstrated the particular attention it pays to  UNESCO. This may be seen, for example, from the visit to the Organization’s Headquarters by the President of the Russian  Federation, Vladimir Putin, and from his meeting in Moscow with the Director-General of UNESCO. In spite of certain  difficulties, everything possible has been done to ensure that Russia settles all its UNESCO arrears and continues to play an  active part in UNESCO’s programme activities. We endorse the reforms carried out by Mr Matsuura and will provide him  with constant support in this regard. Our country has always been and remains convinced of the need to make full use of  the enormous intellectual and moral potential of UNESCO, and I sincerely hope that the delegates at the present session  will find ways of enabling UNESCO to make real progress towards the accomplishment of this important task. Thank you  for your attention.
20. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam Minister, for your speech, especially for the good news about the efforts in Saint  Petersburg to promote dialogue among civilizations. May I now invite the distinguished Minister of Human Resource  Development, Science and Technology of India, His Excellency Dr Murli Manohar Joshi. Your Excellency, please.
21.1 Mr JOSHI (India) (Translation from the Hindi):   Mr President, Excellencies, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, permit me,  Mr President, to congratulate you on your election as the President of the General Conference, which is meeting at such  an important juncture in the history of humanity. I also congratulate Mr Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO,  for his signal contribution in such a short period towards restructuring UNESCO, streamlining its managerial  procedures and rationalizing its field offices.
21.2 We are meeting under the shadow of events that have forever changed how we will view our security, peaceful  coexistence and international relations. At the outset, on behalf of the Government and people of India, I offer our  heartfelt condolences to the thousand of innocent victims.
21.3 We all stand today in solidarity with civilization against terrorism, with culture against barbarism, with  goodwill against evil designs and conspiracies. The dreadful features of terrorism oblige all the Member States of  UNESCO to forge defences of peace and culture in the infra-rational that is blind and brutal. The ancient Indian prayer  that urges protection of the good and destruction of evil, rings out from our soul: Visvani deva savitriduritani parasuva,  yad bhadram tannasuva.
21.4 May I suggest, Mr President, that a turning point has been reached in human history, and that we have to add a  new dimension to UNESCO’s programmes of education and culture. We have to deepen and heighten the processes of  learning and teaching, and we have to draw upon higher lights of consciousness that can penetrate and transform the  great Revolt emerging from the sub-conscious and the unconscious; for that alone can meet – effectively, inwardly and  intensively – by means of the highest culture, the dark menace which carries with it the worst possibilities that  civilization has ever confronted on a global scale. For we have to remember that this menace takes the advances of  science and technology and utilizes them to destroy all the noble ideals of knowledge and culture.
21.5 May I also suggest that we begin to take stock of the cutting-edge of scientific knowledge and technological  advancement and pool together the recent efforts made by Member States to link science with the realm of values and  use technology for the highest welfare of all humankind. In this context, India has in recent years taken three initiatives,  which we should like to share with all Member States of UNESCO, since they are directly related to the deeper and  more urgent needs of the contemporary world.
21.6 The first initiative is concerned with the study and promotion of values as a bridge between science and the  higher realms of knowledge that are now opening up before humanity. We have underlined that science and technology  are human activities and that no human activity has a right to claim such autonomy as to indulge in its exclusive  pursuits with no concern for what the Bhagavadgita calls “loka sangraha”, universal solidarity, unity and integrity. We  have emphasized that a scientist or technologist is a human being and bears the responsibility that every human being  has to bear towards the universal good. In other words, science cannot afford to be value-neutral. I am reminded in this  connection of the memorable words of Bertrand Russell, which I should like to quote: “There are certain things that our
83  age needs and certain things that you should avoid. It needs compassion and a wish that mankind should be happy; it  needs a desire for knowledge and the determination to eschew pleasant myths; it needs above all courageous hope and  impulse to creativeness. The things that it must avoid are cruelty, envy, greed, competitiveness, the search for irrational  subjective certainty, and what Freudians called the death wish… The root of the matter is very simple and an old- fashioned thing… The thing I mean – please forgive me for mentioning it – is love, Christian love or compassion. If you  feel this, you have a motive for existence, a guide in action, a reason for courage, an imperative for intellectual  necessity.”
21.7 The second initiative we have taken in recent years is to relate the quest for science with the quest for ultimate  reality. We have noted that we are today at a very stimulating state of discoveries where atomism and the  compartmentalization of knowledge are being surpassed, clearing the way for a holistic and integral view of reality,  where the object of knowledge and the subject of knowledge are obliged to take each other into account and seek unity.  I belong myself to the field of science, and have greatly admired Newton and Einstein but when we study the findings  of recent physicists like Louis de Broglie, Erwin Schrodinger, David Bohm and others, we feel ourselves to be in the  presence of a great shift and in need of a new paradigm. We hear Michael Talbot speaking of the reality of sub-atomic  particles as “omnijective”, an inseparable combination of the subject of the observing scientist and the object observed.  We can no longer uphold the Cartesian-Newtonian approach that looked upon the universe as an inert machine distinct  from consciousness.
21.8 This brings us to the third initiative that we have taken, and that is to intensify and multiply research on the  theme of consciousness. Both in philosophy and in science, we are entering into dimensions of problems which oblige  us to inquire into the mystery and wonder of consciousness. To us in India, this new trend is a kind of homecoming and  we feel as though the modern inquiries into consciousness are a new awakening and retreading of the ancient pages of  the Upanishads, which are a store of studies about levels of consciousness. It is here that we find the ladder from the  unconscious to the super-conscious and the path of ascent beyond mind to the supermind. It is here that we find the  birth of a new knowledge in our contemporary India, where the power of the supermind is being developed, and it is  indeed being affirmed that the exploration of the supermind is closely connected with the remedy that we are looking  for to counter the forces of violence and terrorism. For it is inwardly realized to an increasing extent that, not by outer  means alone but by inner explorations and the spiritual regeneration of human consciousness, the lower and the abysmal  can be conquered.
21.9 Mr President, it is salutary that in this grim hour of universal menace of terrorism, some of the great leaders of  the world have spoken of the need to look within and to find deeper means of sharing cultural advancement, so that the  greatness of one nation does not prevent the greatness of the other nation and that integral development and prosperity  is shared by all. India has held these ideals and values dear for many centuries. In the context of promoting a culture of  peace, tolerance and non-violence, the world would do well to heed the ideals and teachings of Lord Mahavira, whose
2,600th anniversary is being celebrated this year. We need to reaffirm his unflinching faith in non-violence, not only  towards fellow humans, but also to all living beings and even to so-called inert objects. We need to recognize the theory  of “Anekantavaad”, which holds that all statements about truth are relative and approximate, and not absolute and final.  Only then can we rid our hearts of dogma, superstitions, hatred and prejudice, and begin to live together in a spirit of  cultural pluralism that celebrates diversity and otherness.
21.10 All this reiterates UNESCO’s recent efforts at the development of a culture of peace. And we feel that the time  has now come when UNESCO should redouble its efforts to build new edifices of that culture. People all over the world  need to be inspired to discover means by which higher levels of unconsciousness can be attained. In fact, of the  different United Nations agencies, UNESCO has the important mandate of using all the resources at its command in all  its fields of competence to build bridges and strengthen the efforts to knit together nations and communities so that their  energies can be devoted to pursuing peace with human security and programmes of sustainable development, to achieve  an overall improvement in the quality of life of all men and women. UNESCO’s Education for All programme is in this  context a necessary foundation. And, here too, permit me to point out India’s achievements and new initiatives.
21.11 India has reached a high point of advancement in securing a literacy rate of over 65% and expects to reach the  level of 75% by the end of 2005. Our commitment to the programmes for the empowerment of women has won the  Honourable Mention of the Noma Literacy Prize, and we have even decided to amend our Constitution to make free and  compulsory education a fundamental right for children between 6 and 14 years of age. We have also been engaged in  building a knowledge society and we are harnessing various media in the service of promoting information technology  and the advancement of knowledge.
21.12 We need to take some other initiatives in regard to larger issues, and here, wider and global cooperation is  necessary. Hence, I would like to congratulate the Director-General of UNESCO for organizing a Round Table of  Ministers of Science during this General Conference focusing attention on the need to harness modern science and  technology for the benefit of all mankind, including its various ethical and socio-cultural dimensions. We feel that
84  UNESCO should consider the possibility of setting up a corpus fund to be known as the “Intellectual Resources Fund”  in partnership with other donor agencies like the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank, the  European Community and interested Governments, on the pattern of the Global Environment Facility for helping  developing countries, particularly those in Asia and Latin America, to augment the creation of world-class facilities for  research and higher education and facilitate the participation of researchers and specialists in projects at premier  institutions abroad.
21.13 We also wish to underscore the need for a well-founded public debate on meeting the developmental and  environmental needs of present and future generations on the basis of a more sustainable lifestyle and consumption of  natural resources.
21.14 It is a matter of pride that our scientists have developed a low-cost hand-held computer called “Simputer”  which could be of immense assistance to the millions of non-literates the world over, including those in India, since it is  icon driven and user friendly. Using this computer, which could be a community owned device with smart cards made  available to individual users, one could get information on crop prices, weather conditions, etc. and could also learn  basic literacy, numeracy and language skills. It has the potential to play a pioneering role in bridging the digital divide  and spreading basic education in a decentralized distance mode. India is ever ready to share its experience with all other  countries which face similar problems of access and illiteracy in remote pockets and the sheer economics of trying to  provide education for all. In fact, a differential rate is being worked out to provide this technology at a much lower cost  to developing countries compared to those seeking to exploit it on a commercial basis.
21.15 India’s cooperation with UNESCO is continuously sustained, and India is participating in UNESCO’s flagship  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission programme and also in the ARGO and Storm Surge Search Projects  which hold immense potential in its region. Our three institutions of repute, the National Institute of Oceanography in  Goa, the National Institute of Ocean Technology at Chennai, and the National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research  in Goa, could, along with university infrastructures, provide good opportunities for students and researchers from other  countries.
21.16 I should also like to announce that we have decided to institute a Chair in India to be offered to the nominee of  the UNESCO Kalinga Prize. This Chair would enable the laureates to spend about two to four weeks in India with  interactions with leading Indian institutions.
21.17 In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that we are ever willing to share our vast pool of human resources with the  rest of the world and look forward to UNESCO using these in synergy with material support from the developed  countries in the furtherance of its programmes in all its areas of competence. Thank you very much.
22.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency.   (The President continues in Arabic)
(23.1) Mr FARTAK (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Ministers, heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, peace and  the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you. I am pleased to convey to you warmest greetings of love and respect and  sincere wishes from the President, Government and people of Sudan. I take this opportunity to congratulate you on the  convening of the first session of the General Conference of our Organization in the twenty-first century, and to express the  hope that it may help to strengthen international cooperation by ensuring concerted and integrated efforts for the good and  welfare of all humankind. I congratulate Mr Ahmad Jalali, the President of the General Conference, on the great confidence  placed in him by the General Conference; I also congratulate the Vice-Presidents on having been selected to undertake this  task, and pray to God Almighty that He may grant success to all. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to extend special  greetings to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of the Organization on the occasion of the first session of the  General Conference to be held under his leadership, with our support and assistance. We strongly support his wise policies  for the restructuring of the Organization with a view to enhancing performance and ensuring optimum use of resources.  Similarly, I give well-deserved thanks to the esteemed Members of the Executive Board and the Secretariat staff for their  noteworthy and much appreciated efforts in the outstanding preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft  Programme and Budget, to which I am confident we will give our complete acceptance and well-deserved support.
(23.2) I should like to commend, with thanks, UNESCO’s much appreciated support for the efforts to bring peace to  Sudan through its initiative of holding the important Barcelona symposium, which ended with a declaration stressing  national factors, and also two regional seminars on the culture of peace for the African group in Khartoum. However,  UNESCO must pursue its vital cooperation and strengthen its efforts, particularly now that diplomatic and political detente  and the development of democracy in Sudan have led to the emergence of party pluralism and the introduction of public  freedoms, all of which will be conducive to strengthening the efforts to achieve the desired peace.
(23.3) My brother the President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to salute the host country,  which has provided a home to our Organization, and to commend the ideas and values contained in the address by  President Jacques Chirac, President of the French Republic, at the opening of this Conference. I should also like to salute  that son of Africa, President Obasanjo, for the precious ideas contained in his address; as we all know, he is Africa’s man  of peace. My brother the President, brothers and sisters, the international community has entrusted UNESCO with the task  of constructing the defences of peace in the minds of men in order that they may live together; and with the task of  consolidating security within the framework of our lofty mission for the benefit of humankind and to help human  civilization flourish. The Organization has made considerable progress in achieving this goal within the limits of the  resources available and the help and assistance of the Member States. Yet the fact remains that this cherished goal has  become difficult to attain owing to armed conflicts, devastating wars, and the growing number of flashpoints, which have  been aggravated by acute and adverse developments, the spread of grinding poverty, the harmful repercussions of  globalization, and a feeling that the people have been wronged and cheated, kindled by the bitter reality of the  discrepancies between the desperately poor South and the developed North.
(23.4) The deplorable attacks sustained by the United States last September, which have had grave repercussions for  international peace and security, compel us to take a strong and united stand against all forms of terrorism, whether  perpetrated by individuals, groups or States, because terrorism is counter to the teachings of religion, the values of virtue,  and the customs of magnanimity. What is important is that this urgent question requires us to undertake an objective  investigation into its underlying causes and motivations so that these may be addressed within the framework of  international law in order to ensure justice. We reiterate the urgent need to resolve armed struggles and international  conflicts, and first and foremost the Palestinian question, the matter of occupied Jerusalem, and the bitter reality of  Palestinian educational institutions, in keeping with the various standards and positions adopted, in order to ensure the  necessary justice and friendship. In this connection, we wish to proclaim loudly our strong support for the practical  proposal of our brother, the Director-General, for the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem. We  endorse this proposal and will work to foster it with all our strength.
(23.5) Mr President of the General Conference, the education sector in Sudan has received growing attention from the  State, not only because education is a basic human right, but also because it is an effective instrument with which to  achieve overall development. Despite unfavourable economic conditions, major progress has been made thanks to the  political will and outstanding involvement of local communities, whose contribution has uniquely surpassed that of official  efforts. Similarly, the State has endeavoured to fulfil its commitments made at the 1990 Jomtien World Conference on  Education for All, as well as at other meetings and under other instruments. Great strides have been made in the  quantitative and qualitative development of education worldwide and in Sudan, particularly at the basic level, by increasing  intake, which was approximately 57.4%, and extending basic schooling to eight years, and also by overcoming gender  discrepancies, such that the number of girls and boys in basic education in both urban and rural schools has grown more  equal; furthermore, the proportion of girls at the secondary level has reached 48%. The pre-school level has been  substantially developed, and now forms an integral part of the basic education cycle, with a specific educational  administration, appropriate curricula, and relevant laws and regulations. This level has become sufficiently widespread to  prompt civil society associations to contribute to it, and particular attention has been devoted to nomadic children, children  in difficult circumstances, and children with special educational needs.
(23.6) Widespread illiteracy is still a problem in Sudan, despite the strong political commitment and support for the  efforts to combat it. There are more than 11 million illiterates, including over 3 million adolescents of school age, mainly  girls. This uncomfortable educational fact in the least developed countries serves to underscore their inability to tackle this  problem on their own, hence the need for international cooperation in order to address it wherever necessary, taking care to  avoid the unobjective and unjustified selectivity from which many countries have suffered. Here I must commend the  fruitful cooperation provided by the World Food Programme (WFP), UNICEF, UNESCO and the United Nations  Population Fund (UNFPA), which have done much to develop and renovate education.
(23.7) Higher education institutes in my country underwent an educational revolution during the 1990s, with intake  growing over tenfold. What is particularly interesting is the growth in the number of women. Curricula have been  diversified in order to match natural and local development resources, and particular attention has been devoted to human  resources development, especially in the field of science and technology. However, this tremendous quantitative  achievement makes it necessary to exert particular efforts to improve quality and provide laboratory equipment in order to  keep abreast of technological advances and scientific progress – UNESCO’s support will be vital for these efforts.
(23.8) Mr President, the vicious circle of poverty in the third world continues, frighteningly, to widen and worsen as a  result of armed conflicts and wars, which have a grave impact on the human and material resources needed to achieve  comprehensive development and to tackle indebtedness, not to mention repeated natural disasters. On the basis of the  United Nations strategy, which seeks to reduce poverty rates as far as possible, and taking into account the adverse  implications of globalization for the achievement of this vital objective, UNESCO is called upon to play a prime role in  combating the economic and social consequences of underdevelopment and addressing its historical, social and  developmental causes in order to bring about an appropriate climate and suitable conditions which may ensure the success  of actions in favour of comprehensive development, and also to develop human and natural resources in the developing  countries, and thus play an active role in reducing poverty rates.
(23.9) Mr President, dear participants, the unprecedented and accelerating pace of scientific discoveries, the tremendous  technological progress achieved, and the numerous practices arising therefrom make it necessary to pay close attention to  the security-related and ethical aspects of human society by establishing an integrated scientific framework and adopting a  perspective which addresses scientific and technical underdevelopment in the least developed countries, and meets the  requirements of the new social contract so as to address numerous crucial issues, such as climate change, the deterioration  of biological and environmental diversity, threats to quantitative and qualitative water security, undernourishment, poverty,  drought and severe desertification, particularly in the countries of the Sahel and the Sahara, and finally the consequences of  natural disasters for human beings and their environment.
(23.10) Mr President, Sudan is honoured that Khartoum will be the Arab Cultural Capital in 2005. Indeed, Sudan is well  suited to this role, constituting, as it does, a unique model thanks to the richness of its creative cultural diversity; it is a  country inhabited by more than 500 multiracial ethnic groups speaking over 125 different languages and dialects, and  practising numerous creeds, customs and traditions. These communities boast original and diverse cultures, and the  archaeological remains of pyramids and temples bear witness to civilizations of venerable antiquity. The State strives to  ensure that this diversity forms part of the fabric of social harmony and cohesiveness, functions as a source of strength and  well-being for society, and makes a positive contribution to the progress of civilization.
(23.11) Mr President, brothers and sisters, Sudan’s response to the communication and information revolution reflects the  growing interest of the State in this sector, as witnessed by the establishment of two new television and radio networks with  dozens of local stations in the various centres and provinces. This is in line with the Organization’s plan concerning  information technology.
(23.12) My brother, Mr President, brothers and sisters, allow me to say that this General Conference comes at a crucial  turning point: we must all join forces, and work hand in hand to carry out the strategies outlined by our brother, the  Director-General. These important strategies will help this Organization to overcome many of the difficulties that have  stood in its way in recent times. We in the Sudan reiterate to this gathering and to our brother, the Director-General, that we  shall stand together with him regarding the five strategies he described in his address today to this General Conference, and  we call upon the international community to be united in solidarity in order to ensure that our Organization plays a more  important role in the twenty-first century, a role which must be different from that it played in the last century. Thank you  very much. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you.   :א ٢٤,١ א  ،.
(24.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   You have honoured us, Minister.  (The President continues in English)
24.2 May I now invite Her Excellency Ms Doris Rosas de Mata, Minister of Education of Panama. Madam, the  floor is yours.
(25.1) Ms ROSAS DE MATA (Panama) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ministers,  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the universal God of goodness and love, I am addressing you here so as to  provide you with an overview of education in Panama, my small country, which generously split its territory in two so as to  be of service to the world, uniting the Earth’s two greatest oceans, and which fervently wishes for peace to reign among all  humanity. Like the rest of the world, Panama was horror-struck at the barbarous acts which occurred in the United States,  but which affect the whole of humanity. We, like everyone else, shall have to live with all its fateful consequences, but we  pray that from such great evil a great universal lesson may emerge. Our world needs to move forward in a more balanced  and  fairer way; its enormous inequalities and injustices must be eradicated so that there will be no more place for the  shocking fanaticism that leads to extreme dehumanization. We should all be striving for the supreme end: to see justice and  peace prevail on Earth, with God’s help and, in my personal case, with faith in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice for all  humanity.
(25.2) Panama has developed action in the fields of education, culture, science, communication and information, which  are part of UNESCO’s sphere and seek all round improvement in the lives of the men and women of the new millennium.  In the area of education we have initiated strategies to strengthen democracy and equity, including  a vision of a school that  will develop in students a conception of the world and of society based on the processes of the globalization, production  and dissemination of knowledge that will give them access to technological and scientific change, together with a full  understanding of their environment. Without forgetting, naturally, that our first obligation is the formation of human beings.
(25.3) Panama is one of the Latin American countries that invest the most in education. As a result of an almost  complete coverage in primary education, with a school enrolment rate of 92%, we have managed to reduce illiteracy  significantly, from a level of more than 25% in the mid-1970s to today’s rate of 9%, one of the lowest rates in the Americas.  Primary education reaches higher levels in the remote areas, but secondary education covers 80% of urban areas even  though it  reaches barely 18% of the indigenous population.
(25.4) Our Government, under the leadership of the most distinguished Ms Mireya Moscoso, has tackled education  in  the context of national development, with a wide-ranging plan focusing on the basic needs of the Panamanian student  population, so that the whole of society will benefit. The 2000-2004 educational agenda defines the following policies as  strategies to be achieved: the deepening of the democratization of education, and of the whole system; the improvement of  the quality of education; and the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Education so that it can fulfil its important  national role. As for the specific areas of the natural sciences and the social and human sciences, Panama has made a  notable effort to adapt to technological and scientific change, seeking to prepare the learner in accordance with prevailing  universal concepts in order to assist modern technological society to function effectively, with due regard for the standards  of social harmony that must prevail and the awareness that technology must be the servant of humankind.
(25.5) In the area of culture, consideration has been given to the urgent need to restructure, protect and enhance the  nation’s historical heritage through the restoration of historic sites, the preservation of archaeological sites and the  reorganization and restructuring of the national museums. Panama is also seeking to update its laws on the underwater  heritage. For that reason, we believe that the Draft Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage  should be adopted as presented, as it clearly defines the mechanisms for the management, transmission of information and  conservation of this heritage as a legacy for future generations.
(25.6) Panama is also seeking to broaden the coverage of cultural centres in indigenous areas and of the various groups  that go to make up Panamanian popular culture. For that reason, we welcome UNESCO’s Draft Declaration on Cultural
91  Diversity and we support all the efforts being made to foster “computer literacy” as well as the promotion of linguistic  diversity in cyberspace and free access to information in the public domain.
(25.7) As regards communication and information, the objective of Panama’s Radio y Televisión Educativa is to  encourage, produce and broadcast educational, cultural, informational and entertainment programmes that provide an all- round education, based on quality, equity, relevance and productivity for the benefit of Panamanian society. It also  broadcasts distance education programmes.
(25.8) We have described above the principal means which Panama employs to comply with UNESCO requirements,  and which demonstrate our Government’s interest in following the course of worldwide progress and providing benefits for  our people.
(25.9) Mr President, I should now like to refer to the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. This draft document  gives expression to UNESCO’s contribution to the promotion of fundamental human rights, such as the right to peace,  education, security and cultural pluralism. The document also sets out real strategies for dealing with the accumulated  problems that afflict humanity: extreme poverty, the absence of peace, the lack of communication, the existence of illnesses  such as AIDS, education that does not include universal rights, etc. Because we are aware that we live in a world filled with  conflicts, under threat, subject to exploitation by various forces, with marked class differences that cannot be overcome by  education through the media and with extreme disparities, we see in this proposal, which is intended to create highly  effective strategies for the 2002-2007 period, a hope that is grounded in a laudable sense of reality, thanks to which we  shall see the dawn of a new era for the common benefit of the dispossessed of this world.
(25.10) In closing, I shall mention the Draft Programme and Budget. This draft document covering the 2002-2003  biennium furthers the priorities within UNESCO’s field of action, since it aims to implement the commitments of the Dakar  World Education Forum and presents us with the vision of a UNESCO offering justice and redress that seeks solutions to  world educational and scientific challenges in order to achieve a culture of peace and bring many countries of the world out  of their state of underdevelopment.
(25.11) Panama is interested in seeing UNESCO’s activities on behalf of the marginalized population of the continent  expanded so that the huge gap between the rich and the poor, between rich countries and poor countries, will disappear or  be reduced, so that there will be greater access to education that is democratic and brings redress. It only remains to say  “forward, UNESCO! The world needs enterprising action and everyone’s hopes are fixed on continuous programme  planning that embraces and envisages a better future for all humanity”. Thank you very much.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam Minister.  (The President continues in Arabic)
(27.1) Mr SALAMÉ (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, ministers and heads of delegations, ladies and  gentlemen, I am pleased, first of all, to salute you on behalf of Lebanon, and to wish this General Conference every success  in its work. I also congratulate the President of the General Conference on his election.
(27.2) Allow me, from this rostrum, to commend the close cooperation there has been between Lebanon and UNESCO  right from the beginning. Indeed, Lebanon is one of the founding Members of the Organization, and it hosted the third  session of the General Conference in 1948. Ever since that time, there has been an area of Beirut which is known as the  UNESCO Quarter, and a major cultural centre known as UNESCO Palace. Lebanon is host to the UNESCO Regional  Bureau for Education. In addition, the Organization holds numerous conferences in Lebanon in the fields of education,  science and culture. Lebanon has five sites inscribed on the World Heritage List, and hopes to have further sites inscribed  in the coming biennium.
(27.3) I should like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the agreement concluded by UNESCO with Lebanon on  human sciences, in particular with regard to the establishment of the International Centre for Human Sciences, Byblos.  Lebanon has ensured that this Centre was established on an outstanding historical site, and has provided it with the initial  requirements stipulated in the agreement signed with the Organization. We hope that this Centre may rapidly gain a top- rank international reputation in the applied social and human sciences.
(27.4) Lebanon devotes particular and constant attention to the Organization’s World Heritage Committee in view of the  exceptional wealth history has bestowed on our country, which is small in area, but whose soil is replete with the
94  accumulated experience of humankind over the centuries and millennia. Lebanon therefore urges UNESCO to devote its  fullest attention to the World Heritage Committee (WHC) and to strengthen its effectiveness. The Organization should also  consider the need to attract the best international experts to work in the Committee. Lebanon will also be keen to endorse  the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Heritage, particularly since its coastal waters are exceptionally rich in  such heritage.
(27.5) Lebanon is in favour of approving the draft UNESCO declaration on cultural diversity. It shares the  Organization’s growing interest in the ethics of science and technology, and has established a national committee to  monitor this issue. Lebanon is also drafting a law in application of the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and  Human Rights adopted by UNESCO.
(27.6) Mr President, the current state of the world compels us to be deeply humble in our assessment of the  Organization’s work over the past half century, and furthermore to be wary of the climate surrounding the inception of the  third millennium, which is beginning with acts of violence that employ new means, have new objectives, and draw on the  technology of globalization without subscribing to its values, striking defenceless civilians and spreading to countries  which lack everything except ever more violence and destruction. As the third millennium opens, voices are being raised  here and there about an inevitable clash of civilizations, the superiority of a given civilization over all others, or a supposed  hierarchy among civilizations, some of which are placed in the upper echelons, with others at the bottom. We occasionally  hear people rejecting an entire civilization on the grounds that it belongs to a given religion or to a particular system of  values. On the other hand, we hear people every day saying that we should reject and fight others because they follow some  other religion or do not profess any religion. The world sometimes seems to be desperately seeking adversaries and  enemies with which to justify its arsenals of weapons and the persistent levels of military expenditure. To hear all this over  half a century after the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of UNESCO, which advocates  advancing towards peace and mutual understanding among peoples and contributing effectively to their progress through  the exchange of knowledge and dialogue between and development of cultures, prompts concern about where we are  heading, about the effectiveness of what we have accomplished ever since the Organization was founded.
(27.7) We are well aware that two fundamental criteria governed the international order during the cold war: the  strategic factor on the one hand, and the ideological factor on the other. We are also aware that these two criteria were  eroded by the changes in the international order at the end of the 1980s and by the quickening pace of globalization in the  economic and financial spheres. We realize that the dynamics of polarization and alignment on the international stage were  affected thereby, that long-standing alliances were broken and active ideological organizations were marginalized, and that  countries and communities began to seek other criteria which might draw them together or indeed set them apart. At the  same time, the quickening pace of globalization has forced countries and communities to exert strenuous efforts to protect  themselves from the threat of marginalization and isolation. It was in precisely such a climate that the key issue of cultural  identity arose to fill the vacuum created by the change in the world order, and numerous civil wars broke out, not on the  basis of political divergences, but rather on religious, linguistic or ethnic grounds. Various theories about the clash of  civilizations or dialogue among civilizations have been mooted as a way of generalizing or theorizing about these growing  phenomena, from the Balkans, to Africa and Asia. In many cases, this new discourse has taken on a strongly religious tinge,  which has served to accentuate its acute and absolute nature. I am convinced that we have a great responsibility,  particularly in this Organization, to check this present trend, which is conceptually erroneous and politically threatening. I  hope that together, we may give priority to this question now that the cultural factor appears to be at the centre of  international relations, a fact which arouses both interest and concern, especially when we see that some find it easy to  exploit the cultural factor in order to fan hatred among peoples and open up new fronts between human beings. This may  require us to be bolder in our handling of cultural diversity, for civilizations are not alternatives to countries or alliances, as  some are inclined to think; rather, they are merely a source from which countries, peoples and communities derive their  scale of values, their tastes, their knowledge, and the ingredients of their cohesion. Therefore, civilizations cannot fight one  another or come to terms with one another in the strictly scientific sense of the word, because no State or group or leader  may speak in the name of any civilization, and because civilizations are not recognized political entities. In any case, the  instances of cooperation, dialogue and exchange among civilizations are older and more numerous than those of war and  struggle. On the other hand, wars, conflicts and disputes between groups belonging to the same civilization are not only  more numerous; they are also constantly increasing. It is clear that as a result of modernity over the past two centuries, and  more specifically as a result of the globalized modernity we have been experiencing in the past two decades, the flow of  people, capital, goods, ideas and information has become rapid, easy and inexpensive, thanks to the communication  technology revolution. The interaction of cultural elements has thus increased in all societies thanks to the widespread  movement of people from one country to another and even from one continent to another. It has become extremely rare to  find a community in the world which is monocultural or monolingual or has a single set of values. One might even go  further and claim that one of the results of globalized modernity is that the adjacency of cultures has become not only  possible, but quite commonplace within each individual, within each of us, for we now speak several languages, not just  one; we enjoy several kinds of music, not just one; and we follow satellite programmes from various civilizations with  equal interest. Mr President, given that cultural cross-fertilization has led to this result within societies and communities,  and even within individuals, it is only natural to see people reacting to these transformations in a desperate attempt to halt  the progress of globalization or to turn back the clock in defence of the purity of their nation, race, religion, civilization or  language.
(27.8) However, it is not natural for us to stand with our hands tied in the face of these extemporaneous and indeed  reactionary conflicts. Rather, we must seek to understand them as an expression of deep concern about the changes and  transformations under way in the world, and try to exert an influence on them so that they do not act as a stumbling-block  which hampers our mutual dialogue, encounter and interaction. This grave concern has been exacerbated by globalization,
95  which has given rise to new forms of inequality among countries and societies, within each society, among those who are  participating in the communications revolution and those unable (or unwilling) to join it. Furthermore, globalization has  engendered new forms of hegemony; indeed, certain countries have tended to exploit their own solid position with respect  to globalization in order to create legislation, institutions, and economic, political and commercial regimes without taking  into consideration the diverse situations found in the world, and without achieving the necessary consensus on making such  legislation effectively global without pressure or coercion. To claim that a given civilization should be able to legislate for  the entire world, or that one civilization is superior to another, and to maintain that a clash between religions and cultures is  inevitable – such claims threaten to put the world back centuries, to a time when conflicts between people were based on  people’s concrete situation rather than what they thought or believed; such claims jeopardize the solidity and unity of most  existing countries, which are home to various religious, racial and linguistic groups. The most dangerous thing in all this is  the claim that there is a hierarchy among civilizations; this, we are convinced, constitutes a new form of racist thinking, a  phenomenon which wrought such havoc in the last century that we must not allow it to reappear in new clothing, using the  cultural criterion as a cover for worn-out old ideas in the dawn of the new century. Mr President, our determination must be  commensurate with the challenge we are facing, and I am certain that we are both able and eager to meet this challenge.  Thank you.   :א ٢٨,١ א  ،  .א
(28.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Minister.  (The President continues in English)
28.2 I would like now to invite His Excellency Dr Antonio Mercader, Minister of Education and Culture of  Uruguay. The floor is yours, sir.
(29.1) Mr MERCADER (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  ministers, ambassadors and delegates of Member States, observers and members of the Secretariat, to begin with I would  like to congratulate the President on his election to guide our deliberations, a task he will carry out with his well-known  skill. It is with mixed feelings of satisfaction and concern that I address this honourable assembly. Satisfaction at being  present at the seat of education, culture, science and communication to deliver a message on behalf of Uruguay as well as  our opinion on some themes on the international agenda. Concern at the times we are living in and which, to some extent,  have changed the course of international relations.
(29.2) The Government of Uruguay lost no time in expressing its strong condemnation of the barbaric terrorist attacks  that occurred in New York and Washington on 11 September, rejecting at the same time all forms of terrorist action and  any attempt to justify it. We undertook to contribute to the fight against terrorism by all existing legal means at the  international level with a view to achieving peace and security. It is clear that from now on, UNESCO will have to exert  greater efforts to seek to eradicate intolerance and hatred between races and persons of different religions as a means of  preventing any recurrence of these tragic events.
(29.3) As regards Uruguay’s relations with this Organization, our Government’s development strategies and actions  have received conceptual and operational support in the initiatives set in motion by the Director-General as part of his  policy to reform UNESCO and, in particular, his decentralization policy. More especially, as regards the Montevideo  Office, UNESCO’s new directions have led, since 1 January 2001, in the first place, to closer cooperation with our  institutions in all the Organization’s fields of competence. Previously such cooperation had been almost exclusively limited  to the science and technology sector. In the second place, the implementation of the “cluster” system is facilitating a  smoother and more pragmatic exchange of experience between the MERCOSUR countries, namely Argentina, Brazil,  Paraguay and Uruguay, as well as with Chile. The symbiosis between UNESCO and the political and technical structures of  the Government of Uruguay and of MERCOSUR is making an effective contribution to the sectoral processes of  integration between the countries of the cluster. The implementation of new means of cooperation, structured jointly by our  Government, the Montevideo Office and the countries mentioned, has been a fundamental factor in this. The activities  launched in this field since the beginning of this year include the following: the updating and harmonization of education  systems; the management and use of water resources (in particular the Guaraní aquifer); intercultural dialogue and  tolerance; social transformations and State reform; promotion of the use of the new information and communication  technologies; the teaching and popularization of science and technology; the ethics of the sciences; and the cultural and  natural heritage.
(29.4) The Government of Uruguay will support UNESCO and its Montevideo Office in the context of the reforms  introduced by the Director-General. Over the coming weeks, the Office will be moving into premises provided by the  Uruguayan Government, which UNESCO will be sharing with the MERCOSUR secretariat in the symbolic MERCOSUR  building in Montevideo. We hope that the Director-General, as he announced some months ago, will strengthen the  Montevideo Office so that it can fulfil the important functions he has assigned to it as the Regional Bureau for Science and  as cluster office for MERCOSUR and Chile. We also hope that the management status it has been given in the  administrative structure, beginning in 2002, will match the important functions assigned to it.
(29.5) We recently held in Uruguay the Second Meeting of Ministers of Education of the Americas, as agreed by the  Heads of State meeting at the Quebec City Summit in April of this year. For purposes of information on the Conference, it  may be useful to summarize some of the main conclusions and measures decided on at the meeting, which was held in  Punta del Este, Uruguay. Firstly, the importance of values-oriented education was emphasized, and in particular education  for peace, which is fully in accordance with the preamble to the UNESCO Constitution, which declares that since wars,  violence, terrorism and intolerance begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that action must be taken, through  the education system, to eradicate such feelings in future generations. Other action plans agreed at this Meeting of the  Ministers of the Americas included the following: help for vulnerable groups, programmes to increase the professional  capacity of teachers and educational administrators, the strengthening of educational management and the use of the new  communication technologies in education. In addition, we undertook to implement projects to promote quality and fairness  in education in order to overcome the various forms of academic failure, to improve school management and teacher  training, and also to strengthen higher education, with particular emphasis on the development of science, technology and  innovation.
(29.6) Mr President, as regards education, Uruguay supports the Secretariat’s efforts on behalf of Education for All,  which has been designated as a main priority for 2002-2003 with an increase in funding of 42%, as well as the objectives of  the Dakar Framework for Action, which are essential to UNESCO’s strategy in this area. Similarly, we would like to  highlight the creation of the regional inter-institutional Education for All Group in Latin America and the Caribbean, for  which UNESCO will continue to provide the technical secretariat. In addition, we support the actions being taken in our  region by IESALC and the International Bureau of Education.
(29.7) Our delegation takes the view that the promotion of cultural diversity as an essential common good of humanity  is one of UNESCO’s main tasks, and we find the Declaration on Cultural Diversity to be a positive step forward in this  regard. Uruguay will continue to work hard on the International Programme for the Development of Communication  (IPDC), because of its importance in today’s world, because of its relation to development and the impact of the new  communications technologies and, as was pointed out by the Director-General, because the communications media, among  their other essential functions, strengthen cultural diversity.
(29.8) With respect to the UNESCO Courier, we support the Executive Board proposal, since the technical report by an  outside consultant indicates that it would be appropriate to continue publication, even if it is only a final attempt for two  years. We believe that there are other funding sources that should be explored. As regards the UNESCO Participation  Programme, we take the view that it should be exclusively for the benefit of the developing countries, as some developed  countries have already indicated.
(29.9) Finally, we welcome two forthcoming meetings to be held in Uruguay and organized in conjunction with  UNESCO: the bioethics meeting with the Uruguayan Parliament and the meeting of the Management of Social  Transformations (MOST) Programme. These meetings, together with the projects carried out with UNESCO for the benefit  of Uruguay, and from Montevideo for the benefit of MERCOSUR countries, are evidence of the increasing commitment to  cooperation between Uruguay and UNESCO. Thank you very much.
30. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. I would now like to invite Her Excellency Ms Atsuko Toyama, Minister of Education,  Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan. Madam, you have the floor.
31.1 Ms TOYAMA (Japan):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to  congratulate you, Mr President, for your election.
31.2 Mr President, I wish to begin by expressing my deep sense of outrage over the atrocious acts of terror  committed in the United States and the resulting loss of so many precious lives. As representatives of Japan, we extend  our deepest condolences to the victims and our sympathies to their families. These malicious, extremely inhumane acts  were perpetrated not only against the United States but against all humankind, and cannot in any way be tolerated. I  should like to see this session of UNESCO’s General Conference adopt as soon as possible the draft resolution  recommended by the Executive Board that strongly censures such acts of terrorism and states the Organization’s resolve  to prevent their recurrence. We believe it would be important to discuss the concrete direction of measures to this end,  and Japan is eager to contribute to these activities.
31.3 Mr President, this happens to be the fiftieth year since Japan became a member of UNESCO. It was a half  century ago, before Japan had dug itself out from under the ashes of the war, that our people, deeply moved by the spirit  of UNESCO’s Constitution and particularly its mandate to its Members to contribute through education, science and  culture to world peace and human welfare, hastened to join the Organization, even before becoming a Member of the  United Nations. Over the ensuing fifty years, Japan has, at every step of the way, been actively involved in UNESCO’s  activities. Thinking back to our affiliation with the Organization over fifty years, I am convinced that UNESCO can  play an instrumental role in solving the problems that afflict today’s society, especially in preventing further  occurrences of terrorism. In addition to eliminating terrorist organizations by the use of force, we should pursue  solutions through the powerful, reinvigorated spirit of the UNESCO Constitution.
31.4 It is imperative, therefore, I firmly believe, to advance a dialogue among civilizations at all levels. In today’s  world, with its many conflicts caused by ignorance and intolerance of other cultures, UNESCO will need to foster  mutual understanding between diverse cultures and civilizations so as to prevent and solve conflicts and to build a  structure of world peace.
31.5 Mr President, to this end, I would like first to point out the critical role of education. It is education that  provides the basis for countries to extract themselves from poverty and to develop. Education also gives people the  ability to think for themselves and the tools to make their own living. Moreover, education imbues individuals with the  ability to understand different peoples and cultures through discourse and dialogue. It leads to the creation of a spirit of  international conciliation and harmony. Indeed, the role of education in cultivating world peace cannot be  overemphasized. In this regard, UNESCO’s programmes to promote education are highly commendable. UNESCO’s  efforts toward improving quality education by including such content as international understanding, citizenship and  cultural diversity are greatly appreciated. However, it is necessary to accelerate the progress of international efforts for  programmes aimed at raising the literacy rate and to diffuse basic education under the banner of Education for All.
31.6 Mr President, I would like next to touch upon the direction of UNESCO’s science programmes. A shortage of  natural resources is seen to be at the root of many of today’s regional conflicts. Water is one of mankind’s most basic  resources, around which numerous problems and conflicts arise. To prevent and resolve these issues, it will be  necessary for UNESCO to accumulate relevant scientific knowledge and expertise.
31.7 With regard to the issue of ethics in the use of science and technology, it will be especially important for us to  give deeper consideration to the field of bioethics. At the same time, to give people a sense of ownership in these  imperatives, a wide dissemination of scientific knowledge will be necessary. This entails a need to promote science  education aggressively, including initiatives to enhance public understanding of science and technology.
31.8 Mr President, I should like to mention UNESCO’s culture programmes. UNESCO has made every effort for  the protection of the world heritage, and this is highly appreciated and supported by the entire world. Nevertheless,  terrible incidents such as the Taliban’s destruction of the Buddha statues in Bamiyan occur. We should strongly  promote the protection of the cultural heritage all over the world, and at the same time enhance people’s awareness of  the importance of cultural properties to prevent the recurrence of such disasters. In today’s world, there is an  accelerating trend toward standardization and commonality, mostly in the name of economic efficiency. As it is  plurality that provides the impetus for global development, UNESCO has an important role to play in not only  preserving but also fostering this plurality, especially cultural diversity. This said, we should not allow our respect for  cultural diversity to contribute to antagonism between civilizations. What is needed is to foster dialogue among people  with various value-systems and, through dialogue, to create a world in which we can respect one another and live in  harmony. This process of dialogue will involve a quest for shared human values, an example of “globalization” in the  true meaning of the word.
31.9 Mr President, this session of the General Conference is an extremely significant one since, by shaping  UNESCO’s first Medium-Term Strategy of the twenty-first century and deciding upon its operational agenda, it is we
99  who will take the first step in setting the Organization’s future direction. The Director-General, Mr Matsuura, has, as  part of UNESCO’s reform process, been working to compile the Organization’s programmes into a focused number of  programmes in priority areas. Japan strongly supports the direction the Director-General is forging for UNESCO in this  process. These programmes are of particularly vital content, including, as I mentioned before, education for all people;  ethics in science and technology; environmental issues, particularly water-related issues; and the preservation of cultural  diversity and of the intangible cultural heritage. May I say that the Japanese Government also rates highly the work that  Mr Matsuura is doing to streamline the Secretariat and decentralize its authority.
31.10 Mr President, I should like to pause for a moment to express my view on the issue of history education referred  to by the head of delegation of the Republic of Korea. I would like to emphasize that history education is extremely  important for young people in order to develop the ability to live together in this era of globalization. In this regard,  Japan is supportive of a well-balanced history education in order to develop mutual understanding and international  cooperation. Furthermore, it is my great pleasure to say that the Korean President and the Japanese Prime Minister  agreed yesterday to carry out a joint study on history. I am convinced that such a continuous dialogue will contribute to  furthering the friendly and future-oriented relationship between the two countries.
31.11 Mr President, finally, as seeking universal values is one of UNESCO’s functions, it will be necessary for the  Organization to restore its own universality by bringing the United States and Singapore back into the fold. I wish to  encourage the Director-General’s efforts in this respect, and hope that they will bear fruit in the near future. This  concludes my remarks as the head of the Japanese delegation. I pray for the continued development and success of  UNESCO’s programmes, and for the peace and prosperity of the member nations and throughout the world. Thank you  very much.
32. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Minister, especially for those very promising suggestions and for the support  for history projects, which are very important. I now give the floor to Her Excellency Ms Erna Hennicot-Schoepges,  distinguished Minister of Culture, Higher Education and Research of Luxembourg. Madam, you have the floor.
33.1 Mme HENNICOT-SCHOEPGES (Luxembourg) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est avec une émotion non dissimulée que je prends aujourd'hui la parole devant les délégués  de 188 Etats du monde réunis à l'occasion de cette session de la Conférence générale. Emotion sincère, car je vois un  immense signe d'espoir dans la tenue de cette assemblée un mois à peine après les insupportables attentats terroristes  qui ont frappé les Etats-Unis, le 11 septembre. Quelle meilleure réponse peut-on en effet apporter au défi cynique que  nous lance le terrorisme que de rassembler sous un même toit des représentants des nations de ce monde, de  provenances, de cultures, de croyances différentes autour des idéaux de liberté, de tolérance, de respect des droits de  l'homme qui sont énoncés avec solennité dans l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation et les textes fondateurs de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies ?
33.2 Dans son intervention cet après-midi, M. Demotte, ministre de la Communauté française de Belgique, a  exprimé devant vous au nom de l'Union européenne tout le rejet et l'horreur que suscitent les lâches actes du
11 septembre, actes qui constituent, je le cite, "une attaque non seulement contre les Etats-Unis, mais contre l'humanité  tout entière, et les valeurs et libertés qui nous sont communes à tous". Au-delà de notre solidarité avec les Etats-Unis et  les victimes, au-delà même de notre volonté commune de mettre fin au fléau du terrorisme - que rien ne peut justifier -  nous sommes appelés ensemble à définir une réponse novatrice et constructive à ce défi, une réponse qui mette en  évidence notre volonté de préserver et de renforcer les principes et les valeurs qui fondent la coopération au sein de la  communauté internationale.
33.3 Une première exigence politique et morale d'une importance capitale est, plus que jamais, de promouvoir le  développement. Alors la mondialisation suscite ici et là des interrogations, voire des doutes profonds quant aux  bénéfices qu'elle peut apporter à l'ensemble des populations et couches sociales, nous devons trouver les moyens de  maîtriser ce phénomène pour le mettre au service d'un ordre mondial plus juste et, partant, plus stable. Comme l'a dit en  effet le Président Chirac : "introduire davantage de justice et d'équité dans cette mondialisation, c'est rendre possible le  dialogue des peuples, c'est préparer notre avenir commun".
33.4 A cette œuvre de développement - qui doit être l'œuvre commune de l'humanité tout entière - le Luxembourg  entend s'associer pleinement. Aussi est-ce avec une certaine fierté que je voudrais annoncer aujourd'hui que mon pays a  rejoint l'an dernier le club, malheureusement trop restreint, des pays qui consacrent au moins 0,7 % de leur PIB à la  coopération et au développement. Le gouvernement luxembourgeois entend atteindre 1 % d'ici à 2005.
33.5 Cette coopération va tout à fait dans le sens de ce même objectif - l'élimination de la pauvreté et, en particulier,  de l'extrême pauvreté - qui constitue l'un des deux thèmes transversaux censés orienter l'ensemble de l'action de notre  Organisation. Un accent particulier est mis sur les questions relatives à l'éducation de base, placée au centre des
100  préoccupations de la communauté internationale par le Forum mondial de Dakar sur l'éducation dont l'UNESCO  coordonne si opportunément le suivi. Je voudrais souligner dans ce contexte l'importance qu'il convient d'accorder  notamment à l'éducation des filles, ainsi qu'à l'éducation en matière de prévention du sida.
33.6 Une deuxième exigence me paraît être d'opposer aux théoriciens d'un "choc des civilisations", postulé comme  inévitable, une logique autre, fondée sur le dialogue, la tolérance et le respect mutuel, une logique capable aussi de  réfuter les amalgames trop faciles et trompeurs, les dérives nationalistes, racistes ou xénophobes, ainsi que l'a déclaré  récemment le Conseil européen.
33.7 Hier, à l'ouverture de notre Conférence générale, le Président de la République française a su trouver les mots  justes et inspirés propres à guider notre recherche d'un véritable dialogue des cultures, fondé sur l'égale dignité et le  respect de la diversité qui doivent orienter nos actions. Mais ce dialogue doit se nourrir des références universelles qui  s'inscrivent au cœur même de l'action de l'UNESCO, comme la promotion des valeurs démocratiques, le respect des  droits de l'homme, y compris la liberté individuelle et la liberté d'expression, et la consolidation de l'Etat de droit.
33.8 Dans le débat mondial actuel sur les avantages et les risques de la mondialisation, il me paraît essentiel que les  questions culturelles gardent une place centrale, car la préservation et la promotion des diversités culturelles et  linguistiques sont d'indispensables contrepoids face à l'action parfois trop uniformisatrice des forces économiques. Il  convient cependant d'éviter que la diversité souhaitable ne se traduise par un repli identitaire exclusif, voire antagoniste,  et de récuser de même toute la prétention d'une culture à prédominer sur les autres ! Trouver les réponses justes, trouver  les équilibres indispensables est à mon sens une tâche qui revient en premier lieu à l'UNESCO et au réseau  d'intellectuels et d'artistes du monde entier qu'elle anime. Dans cette perspective, je me félicite tout particulièrement à la  fois de la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle et des travaux sur le multilinguisme et sur l'accès universel au  cyberespace qui sont soumis à la Conférence générale à sa présente session.
33.9 Monsieur le Président, étant moi-même Ministre de la recherche de mon pays, et m'employant actuellement à  mettre en place une politique scientifique volontariste, je ne voudrais pas passer sous silence l'action si précieuse de  l'UNESCO dans le domaine des sciences naturelles et des sciences humaines, ainsi que dans le domaine, si étroitement  lié aux évolutions technologiques, de la communication. Dans ce contexte, la réflexion engagée sur l'éthique des  sciences et, plus particulièrement la bioéthique nous fournit des points de repère et des paramètres forts, utiles dans le  cadre du débat, difficile mais nécessaire, qui doit être mené dans tous les pays.
33.10 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, les défis qui sont devant nous sont considérables et les  moyens dont nous disposons pour y faire face malheureusement limités. Voilà pourquoi nous nous félicitons tout  particulièrement du programme de réformes que le Directeur général a mis en route depuis son élection. Le  Luxembourg apporte son plein appui au Directeur général dans cette tâche et l'exhorte à persévérer sur la voie ardue de  la modernisation et de la rationalisation, car elles sont le gage d'un emploi efficace et efficient des moyens disponibles  et la condition même de la crédibilité et du rayonnement de notre Organisation à laquelle nous sommes tant attachés.  Cette crédibilité est également fonction d'un dialogue renouvelé avec la société civile et ses représentants, au premier  rang desquels je voudrais mentionner les commissions nationales qui constituent un rouage de transmission  indispensable entre l'organisation et les milieux scientifiques, artistiques et intellectuels nationaux.
33.11 L'UNESCO n'a cessé, et cela tout particulièrement lors des dernières sessions de la Conférence générale, de  souligner l'importance qu'elle attache aux commissions nationales. Reflets des forces vives de chaque pays dans le  domaine de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, les commissions nationales, selon l'article 3 de la Charte qui les  régit, ont pour mission d'assurer la présence de l'UNESCO, de concourir à la coopération intellectuelle internationale et  de contribuer à la mise en oeuvre du programme de l'UNESCO. Le Luxembourg reconnaît les efforts qui ont été  accomplis par l'unité compétente du secrétariat pour aider efficacement les commissions nationales dans  l'accomplissement de leurs tâches.
33.12 Monsieur le Président, voici quelques jours notre Directeur général a constaté que désormais  - et je le cite - "l'ordre du jour de l'UNESCO se trouve propulsé en tête de l'ordre du jour mondial". Je partage sa  conviction: car l'UNESCO est appelée, plus que jamais, à être l'enceinte où doit se dérouler le dialogue entre les  cultures, entre les civilisations, ce dialogue qui devrait être aussi entamé entre les religions, ce dialogue - finalement -  qui est interculturel et aujourd'hui reconnu comme un des éléments cruciaux de la construction d'un ordre mondial plus  juste et plus pacifique. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
34. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Vartan Oskanian, Minister of  Foreign Affairs of Armenia. Sir, you have the floor.
35.1 Mr OSKANIAN (Armenia):   Thank you. Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  government of the Republic of Armenia, I would like to greet the representatives and delegates to the 31st session of the  General Conference of UNESCO. And I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on the occasion of your election  as President of the General Conference and to wish you success in this special task.
35.2 Mr President, as we convene this Conference only a month after the horrific events of 11 September, it is even  more obvious that UNESCO plays a critical role as a proponent of the basic intellectual and moral values which  characterize modern societies. UNESCO has become even more consequential as an organization which can develop  and promote the tools which are needed for this Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Recent events have  demonstrated that this dialogue is more essential than ever. But, unfortunately, more distant than ever as well. We  cannot ignore, minimize or forget these recent acts of terror, but we can reaffirm our commitment to the age-old truth  that education, art and science are direct paths to better individual lives and the tools needed for a better collective  existence through dialogue and mutual understanding.
35.3 Mr President, that the Task Force on UNESCO in the Twenty-first Century has identified “the humanization of  globalization” as one of its goals is welcomed by Armenia. The benefits of globalization must be accompanied by the  social safeguards that will prevent the deterioration of the social fabric that makes for stable societies. The danger to  world order comes not from the ruling elites who are increasingly integrated into the global market order, but from the  excluded. Globalization should welcome diversity, should bolster the enhancement of human rights, and should support  active capacity-building towards the creation of a global knowledge society. None of these objectives can be easily  achieved. Or achieved alone. Governments of Member States should assist the Organization in this difficult task,  especially by more actively involving National Commissions, a unique structure, which may be considered one of the  Organization’s best achievements.
35.4 Mr President, the implications - and possibilities - of globalization affect our Organization as well. UNESCO’s  mission to execute its mandate globally can and should be implemented through active collaboration with other  international, especially European, organizations. Europe not only cannot but, in fact, does not distance itself from the  rest of the world. European States and structures are actively involved in establishing democratic societies and common  European values in all parts of the globe. UNESCO’s decades-long experience in helping build the societal and  educational structures which provide the underpinnings for intellectual and spiritual growth in democratic societies can  be utilized optimally.
35.5 Mr President, I wish to express my satisfaction with regard to document 31 C/5, the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2002-2003 to be adopted by the General Conference. This document contains a more pragmatic and concrete  approach to achieving the goals set in the fields of education, culture, science and human rights.
35.6 Armenia fully supports the Organization’s policy in the field of education. The building of a knowledge society  through quality learning and teaching coincides with my country’s strategy for education in the coming years. In  restructuring education systems to meet contemporary international standards, the crucial point is to provide society  with access to information and communication technologies (ICTs). This access is still limited in our country, although  Armenia has a tradition of active initiation and involvement in ICT research and software development. In Armenia, we  are working on developing public awareness of the potential of this sector, while at the same time resolving such issues  as regulation, capacity creation and training.
35.7 For us, the follow-up to the Dakar Forum’s recommendations lies in promoting the use of information and  communication technologies in education. In particular, promotion of the use of ICTs in education can play a significant  role in the field of special education, as well as in retraining certain groups of the unemployed. To this end, Armenia,  together with the UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education, has taken the initiative of organizing  an international Expert Meeting on “Utilization of Information and Communication Technologies in Education of  People with Limited Physical Abilities.” The Expert Meeting will be held in November in the newly established centre  of the same name. Through the work of this centre, we intend to provide ways of effectively integrating persons with  physical disabilities in our society. The percentage of this segment of our population is very high as a result of the  conflict in Nagorno-Karabagh and, even more, the effects of the 1988 earthquake. Education is the best way to turn  what was a tragedy for our country into new energy for a new era.
35.8 Mr President, UNESCO has come to be known, above all, for its achievements in the field of culture, and in  particular, in the protection and preservation of the world’s cultural heritage. Armenia attaches great importance to this  Organization’s efforts towards elaborating on already existing legal instruments and its initiatives towards developing  new instruments aimed at the protection of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity.
35.9 UNESCO’s insistence that States recognize cultural monuments as representing our common global heritage,  and not just the legacy of a specific culture, is an important prerequisite towards this end, and is especially important for
102  us Armenians. Throughout the millennia of our history, Armenia has witnessed its cultural monuments being damaged  or destroyed. Throughout the Soviet period and the ensuing years, there was a clear policy to destroy Armenian  monuments under Azerbaijan’s control. Today, wherever these monuments exist under Armenian jurisdiction, their  cataloguing, care and renovation is considered a priority.
35.10 Also important is the Armenian commitment to respect and protect the places of worship of other faiths. In  Erevan, the capital of Armenia, an eighteenth-century Iranian mosque has been completely restored, through the  cooperative efforts of the Armenian and Iranian Governments and specialists. Reciprocal efforts are under way in Iran  to preserve and restore Armenian monasteries. We would like to see similar cooperation with our other neighbour,  Turkey, where there are thousands of Armenian historic monuments, many of them damaged or facing near-destruction  and elimination. Armenia is committed to turn the maintenance and appropriate renovation of these historic sites into  opportunities for collaboration with Turkey so that the peoples of the world can benefit from these universal treasures.  The medieval Armenian capital city of Ani, and the Armenian church on the island of Akhtamar in Lake Van are just  two places which continue to be a reminder of our deep roots in that area which are worthy of special attention. Just as  they served the spiritual needs of our predecessors centuries ago, we remain hopeful that they might serve as the  spiritual links for all our descendants for centuries to come.
35.11 Born of this concern, the international conference on the implementation and coordination of UNESCO  conventions on the protection of the cultural heritage and other international instruments took place on our initiative in  Armenia, with the participation of representatives from countries of our region, such as Georgia, Greece, Italy, the  Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian Federation and Turkey, and also representatives from UNESCO, ICOMOS,  INTERPOL and UNIDROIT. The resulting draft resolution is to be presented for adoption by the General Conference.  The general idea is to establish cooperation among the countries of the region and our neighbours – the Russian  Federation, Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Although some countries are still hesitant about establishing  groups of collaborating experts, we remain convinced that there is no better way of overcoming political tensions than  to start working together to preserve our common heritage.
35.12 This effort to preserve and promote the culture of the past and the present has its economic rewards as well. As  a country which has been called an open-air museum, we understand and heartily endorse UNESCO’s effort to  eradicate poverty by promoting culture. To that end, the Republic of Armenia is organizing a donors’ conference  entitled “Regeneration through Culture”. The conference will coincide with the visit to Armenia by the Director- General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. I would like to encourage my colleagues to participate in this conference  which can provide a huge impetus to local and regional development by fostering partnerships between central and local  governments, as well as between government and the private sectors in rural areas.
35.13 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that Armenia attaches great importance to all of UNESCO’s  initiatives in the region. We welcome them for what they try to do directly as well as their overall intent to foster  regional cooperation and development. That is, for obvious reasons, our priority as well. We remain committed to work  with this Organization in finding ways for our common human values and cultural and scientific interests to take  precedence over our individual differences and divisions. Thank you.
36. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. We now come to our last speaker, whom I shall invite to the podium, Her Excellency  Ms Suvi Lindéns, Minister of Culture of Finland. Madam, the floor is yours.
37.1 Ms LINDEN (Finland):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, first  of all, I should like to congratulate you, Ambassador Jalali, on your election as President of this session of the General  Conference. The General Conference meets at a time when tragic world events have forced the international community  and the United Nations organizations to reflect on the ways to step up their efforts to achieve their basic objectives of  peace and equitable development. UNESCO must respond to this challenge in its own fields of competence. Finland  endorses the draft resolution proposed by the Executive Board to the General Conference authorizing the Director- General to adapt the programme to specific needs and inputs of the Organization in this situation. Finland also echoes  the statement made by Belgium on behalf of the European Union.
37.2 The biggest long-term challenge in promoting peaceful development and preventing conflicts is the fight  against poverty and exclusion. Although poverty does not itself immediately or directly lead to conflict, it is evident  that, combined with exclusion, it breeds conflict. UNESCO’s contribution to the alleviation of poverty and the  promotion of social justice in the world is firmly founded on Article 1 of the Constitution. It is through the promotion of  education that UNESCO can make its best contribution to poverty reduction strategies in the United Nations system.  The prime objective is, of course, to ensure access to education for all within the Education for All (EFA) process. In  addition, there is today an urgent need to assist Member States in the development of values-based education –  education for the prevention of violence, intolerance and discrimination. Finland would like to see UNESCO develop
103  and strengthen its activities in the field of human rights education together with other relevant United Nations bodies  and organizations.
37.3 Mr President, Finland welcomes the general thrust of the Draft Programme and Budget for the next biennium  and of the draft Medium-Term Strategy. We also hope that the Conference will take due account of the Executive  Board’s recommendations on these documents. We hope that there will, in the future, be even greater coherence  between the two documents. Finland also welcomes the active and increasingly important role which UNESCO plays in  the development of international ethical standards and norms. In the field of science, bioethics is, in fact, a crucial  challenge at a time of extremely rapid development. We support the strengthening of UNESCO’s activities in this field.  UNESCO has been a forerunner in the development of international policy instruments in the field of culture also. A  number of proposals concerning new instruments will be discussed at this session. Finland considers the Draft  Declaration on Cultural Diversity to be of major importance, and we hope that the Declaration will be adopted by the  Conference. Particular attention should, subsequently, be paid by Member States to its follow-up and to the  implementation of the Action Plan that accompanies the Declaration. Because the promotion of cultural diversity and  sustainable human development requires active public policy-making, we must ensure that all Member States retain  their capacity to develop and implement the required measures and that the attainment of cultural and audiovisual  objectives will not be in any way compromised. In the future, UNESCO should, however, be more restrictive as regards  initiatives concerning new standard-setting instruments in the cultural sector, and rather give guidance to Member  States on the implementation of existing instruments. The World Heritage Convention is one of the most important  international instruments prepared by UNESCO. The working methods of the World Heritage Committee are in the  process of being revised. The World Heritage List should better reflect the cultural and natural heritage of all regions of  the world. Finland will host the next session of the World Heritage Committee, to be held in Helsinki in December this  year. We hope that further progress can be made at that meeting.
37.4 Mr President, as regards communication, UNESCO is expected to make its own contribution to the World  Summit on the Information Society to be held in 2003. New technologies open new prospects for, but also create threats  to, educational and cultural advancement. In this respect, the importance of media education, particularly for the young,  should not be underestimated. In addition to addressing questions of access related to the freedom of expression,  UNESCO has a wider ethical role in this field. Within the framework of UNESCO, which works on a worldwide basis,  the role of the more traditional media should, however, not be forgotten. Community radio movements and the  development of local multimedia centres should be supported. UNESCO should also continue to be an advocate for  public service broadcasting.
37.5 Mr President, Finland welcomes the intention of the Director-General to have a more outward reach, that is, to  involve civil society in the work of UNESCO and to disseminate the results of its activities more widely. Here, National  Commissions for UNESCO play a decisive role. Finland also thanks the Director-General for the considerable progress  achieved during the last biennium to bring about the reform of UNESCO. The Member States should themselves be  active in developing the working methods of the decision-making bodies. During the last few years, attention has been  focused on how the General Conference is organized. A positive development has taken place in this respect. The  Youth Forum has been a very encouraging experience. It would now be timely to look into the working methods of the  Executive Board. The relevance and working methods of the intergovernmental committees and councils for various  programmes should also be analysed. Among these councils, the Intergovernmental Committee on Physical Education  and Sport (CIGEPS) is of special interest to us. Within the United Nations system, CIGEPS is an important forum for  governments to discuss substantive questions related to physical education and sport such as ethics, equity and tolerance  and to solve such problems as doping, violence and the exploitation of children. The World Anti-Doping Agency  (WADA) was established to solve the serious problem of doping and to promote doping-free sport. The CIGEPS  Working Group on Doping has considered it important to concentrate on the harmonization of rules and preventive  measures. In this respect, Finland encourages closer cooperation between CIGEPS and WADA. CIGEPS should also  have a key role to play in providing assistance to developing countries in their anti-doping activities.
37.6 Finally, Mr President, Finland underlines once more UNESCO’s specific role in the solving of problems which  have a global dimension. Education, science, culture and communication have a more central role than ever in  international cooperation for solidarity, equality and peace. We express our support for the Director-General in the  continuation of his reform efforts. We also wish him every success in his work for restoring the universality of  UNESCO. Thank you, Mr President.
38. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Minister of Finland. I note that the distinguished delegate of Turkey would like  to exercise his right of reply concerning comments by the distinguished Minister of Armenia. I trust that he will be as  brief as possible. Sir, you have the floor.
39. Mr FIRAT (Turkey):   Thank you Mr President. I listened with great interest to the speech made by Mr Oskanian, the Armenian  Foreign Minister, and head of the Armenian delegation. I must admit that I share most of his views and approaches  about the future role of UNESCO in the various fields he mentioned. However, concerning the preservation of the  historic cultural heritage, I must state that I cannot share fully his views, especially those concerning the preservation of  those heritage sites in Turkey. I would like also to explain very briefly: to give just one example, he mentioned that the  historical site of Ani in Turkey was in poor condition. That site is just next to the border with Armenia, and Turkey has  been carrying out restoration work there since 1944. However, it is unfortunately true that the Armenian authorities are  causing serious damage to that antique city of Ani by setting off powerful explosions in the quarries operated in  Armenia only 600 metres from the border. So we drew their attention to the preservation of that antique city but to no  avail. So the situation itself shows how far we would like to cooperate and how far from this is the attitude of the  Armenian authorities. To show our goodwill and also our intention to preserve this cultural heritage of mankind we also  participated a month ago in a meeting held in Erevan, Armenia, on exactly this question. And so this attitude alone  shows our position but also our thinking on and approach to the issue. I wanted to clarify this matter and I would like  my intervention to be included in the verbatim records of our session. Thank you very much.
40.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much Turkey. I hope that one day in this house Turkey will say thank you very much,  Armenia, and Armenia will say thank you very much, Turkey.
40.2 There are two brief announcements to be made, the first by the Chairperson of the Executive Board and the  second by the Secretary of the General Conference, but before I give the floor to them I would like to share a problem  concerning this Conference with you. Twice in my opening remarks I asked distinguished speakers not to go beyond  eight minutes. But this has not been the case with all distinguished speakers. So I wondered, what I should do. This is  my problem. Then I said to myself, perhaps I can solve the problem if I write a poem. I have got a poem here, though of  course it is the first that I have ever written in English. I used to write poems in Persian but in English it is the first time  I have tried it, it is not bad for your entertainment especially as you are now tired after a heavy day and you might like  to have an After Eight with your coffee. So this poem I will read to you in the hope that you can solve my problem. I  call this short poem After Eight, because we should stop speaking after eight minutes. “How can I wait/ minutes beyond  eight,/ how can I let the gate/ remain open after eight/ regard my heart rate/when you exceed eight,/is there any way  after eight/to say oh minister it is very late?” Thank you very much for listening. Madam Chairperson, you may make  your announcement now.
41.1 Ms MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Chairperson of the Executive Board:   Congratulations, Mr President. And you did a perfect job today as President of the General Conference.  (The Chairperson of the Executive Board continues in French)
41.2 Excellences, chers collègues, il est rappelé à toutes les délégations qu'aujourd'hui 16 octobre à 19 heures, et  non pas à 18 heures comme on vous l'avait indiqué, aura lieu l'inauguration officielle du hall des conférences rénové de  l'UNESCO, hall qui se trouve en face de cette salle et qui est plus communément appelé "hall Picasso", en raison de la  fresque murale qui s'y trouve et qui a été exécutée par le célèbre peintre.
41.3 Les travaux de rénovation de cet espace ont été entièrement financés sur des fonds récoltés en 1996 et 1997,  lorsque j'étais présidente du Comité du Siège, pour rendre hommage à l'UNESCO à l'occasion de la célébration du
50e anniversaire de l'Organisation. Cette action bénévole a été menée avec la collaboration des membres du Comité du  Siège à la suite de l'appel lancé par le Conseil exécutif aux Etats membres pour qu'ils fournissent des contributions  volontaires pour la rénovation des bâtiments du Siège. Les pays qui ont collaboré avec moi à cette action sont les  suivants : Honduras, Espagne, Nigeria, Pakistan, Lituanie, Algérie, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Finlande, France, Ghana,  Indonésie, Iraq, Monaco, Myanmar, Népal, Panama, Paraguay, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka,  Togo, Ouzbékistan, Yémen et Zimbabwe.
41.4 Au cours de la cérémonie une plaque commémorative portant le nom des généreux donateurs qui ont répondu à  l'appel du Comité du Siège, sera dévoilée par le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, en témoignage de la profonde  gratitude de l'Organisation. Je vous engage à venir nombreux rendre hommage à tous ceux qui ont accepté de s'associer  à cet effort aussi historique qu'emblématique, mais je souligne qu'il doit se poursuivre et que les contributions  volontaires que les Etats membres pourraient vouloir faire pour la rénovation et l'embellissement de l'immeuble dans les  jours, les mois ou les années à venir seraient les bienvenues. M. Claude Picasso, fils du peintre, nous honorera de sa  présence à cette cérémonie, à laquelle assistera également le Président du Comité du Siège, S. E. l'ambassadeur d'Oman.  Merci beaucoup et bonne soirée.
42. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam Chairperson of the Board. And thank you all. We have now reached the end of this fourth  plenary meeting and we will meet again tomorrow morning at 10 o’clock here. Before I adjourn the meeting I would  like to inform delegates that I will be waiting in Room VIII to discuss the draft resolution with the representatives of the  countries concerned. The meeting is adjourned.    La séance est levée à 18 h.40  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.40  Заседание закрывается в 18.40  א ٦,٤٠א   会议于 18 时 40 分结束