437    Quinzième séance plénière
24 octobre 2001 à 10 h.10  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  Fifteenth plenary meeting
24 October 2001 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Decimoquinta sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Good morning distinguished colleagues, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fifteenth  plenary meeting, which will begin with the reply by the Director-General to the general policy debate.
1.2 In the course of the last week and a half, in the course of fourteen plenary meetings to be more precise, we  have heard the voice of UNESCO’s Member States. One by one their representatives came to this rostrum and  expressed the hopes and fears, expectations and aspirations of their governments and people – expectations for better  relations with UNESCO and a better contribution to our programmes. Some praised UNESCO for its accomplishments  and others spoke of their needs for the future. The Director-General and his representatives listened to your expressions  of satisfaction as well as your statements of concern. The time has now come for the plenary to listen to the response of  the Director-General. I therefore invite the Director-General to take the floor.
2.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames, Messieurs, ces dix derniers jours ont été pour moi des moments très intenses. Trois chefs d'Etat, plus de
120 ministres, 15 organisations non gouvernementales, trois organisations inter-gouvernementales, quelque
180 orateurs au total ont participé au débat de politique générale de cette 31e session de la Conférence générale.
2.2 Je voudrais avant tout vous dire ma profonde reconnaissance. Reconnaissance pour avoir nourri et stimulé un  débat d'une telle richesse, qui a placé l'éthique, dans son sens le plus large, au premier plan de vos préoccupations.  Education pour tous, gestion des ressources en eau douce, éthique des sciences et des technologies, diversité culturelle,  dialogue des civilisations, accès équitable à l'information : ce sont là des préoccupations essentiellement éthiques. Vous  avez reconnu en elles les grands défis que l'UNESCO doit relever. Une chose m'a frappé après vous avoir tous écoutés :  au-delà de ces préoccupations, il est un impératif supérieur, qui constitue le défi éthique le plus urgent tout autant que la  condition préalable à l'instauration d'une mondialisation à visage humain, c'est l'élimination de la pauvreté.
2.3 Comme l'a dit si justement le Président Obasanjo, la pauvreté ne peut être appréhendée seulement en termes  monétaires, ni même économiques. C'est un phénomène beaucoup plus complexe. Beaucoup d'entre vous ont souligné  le besoin de renforcer le plaidoyer éthique de la lutte contre la pauvreté, et d'approfondir la réflexion sur les liens entre  pauvreté et diversité. Plus généralement, vous avez tous souligné la nécessité d'obtenir des résultats tangibles et rapides  sur ce front. Il y va de la crédibilité du système des Nations Unies dans son ensemble. Cela nous impose un effort  concerté, avec les institutions du système des Nations Unies et nos autres partenaires, pour développer des programmes  de sensibilisation, de mobilisation et d'actions concrètes.
2.4 A défaut d'avancées significatives dans ce combat auquel l'ensemble de la communauté internationale doit  s'associer, les objectifs qui nous sont propres - apprendre à vivre ensemble, promouvoir la diversité culturelle,  encourager le dialogue des cultures, introduire l'éthique au coeur de la recherche scientifique et de la gestion des  ressources naturelles - tous ces objectifs, dont vous avez souligné l'importance et l'actualité, auront peu de chances  d'être atteints. La haine, l'intolérance, la violence et le fanatisme trouveront toujours des alibis et des prétextes pour se  développer. La réduction de la pauvreté est un impératif éthique et politique, qui est au coeur du concept de sécurité  humaine. C'est pour moi également un défi personnel, pour lequel j'entends mobiliser l'ensemble des forces de  l'Organisation, au Siège et hors Siège, dans les années à venir.
2.5 L'une des premières conclusions que je tire de ce débat est la confiance que vous placez en l'UNESCO en tant  que forum multilatéral et acteur incontournable dans la conjoncture internationale actuelle. Vous l'avez tous souligné :  l'agenda de l'UNESCO a soudainement été placé au plus haut de l'agenda international. C'est un défi pour notre  Organisation, qui n'a sans doute plus à prouver sa pertinence, mais qui devra démontrer sa capacité de répondre  efficacement et rapidement aux attentes qu'on place en elle.
2.6 Vous avez été nombreux à considérer que les propositions contenues dans la Stratégie à moyen terme  constituaient un cadre stratégique approprié pour relever ces défis. C'est ma deuxième conclusion, et je m'en félicite. Je  me félicite tout particulièrement de ce que les cinq priorités que j'ai retenues pour le prochain exercice biennal aient  rencontré une très large adhésion.
2.7 Une fois ce renouvellement programmatique effectué, il nous faudra désormais nous concentrer sur la qualité  de l'exécution, sur l'obtention de résultats. Il nous faudra consolider et renouveler nos partenariats, rechercher  l'excellence et privilégier la transparence. Nous devons être plus efficaces dans la dissémination de notre message et de  nos réalisations et ainsi améliorer notre visibilité. Il nous faudra également poursuivre l'effort de concentration, qui n'a  été qu'amorcé, j'en suis bien conscient. Il est vrai cependant que les nombreuses attentes qui ont été exprimées à l'égard  de l'UNESCO lors de ce débat de politique générale, même si elles constituent, en elles-mêmes, une motion de  confiance pour notre Organisation, ne vont pas dans le sens de la concentration. C'est donc un effort collectif que nous  devrons poursuivre ensemble, avec réalisme et détermination.
2.8 J'ai noté avec satisfaction que de nombreuses délégations, en plénière ou au sein de la Commission  administrative, ont souligné qu'un budget à croissance nominale zéro était un obstacle majeur pour l'accomplissement  effectif de notre mission. La croissance nominale zéro ne devrait en aucun cas être érigée en dogme absolu, et j'espère  bien que cette confiance que vous avez manifestée envers la nouvelle UNESCO saura trouver sa traduction budgétaire  dans les années à venir.
2.9 Certes, les ressources extrabudgétaires sont et continueront d'être une source majeure de financement  permettant d'élargir la portée et l'impact de nos actions, en particulier au niveau national. Permettez-moi à cette  occasion d'exprimer ma reconnaissance à tous les Etats qui ont généreusement proposé des fonds extrabudgétaires dans  le passé, et d'exprimer l'espoir que le niveau actuel pourra être maintenu, voire relevé. Mais je considère que le niveau  du budget alloué à une organisation est un critère majeur de la confiance que ses Etats membres placent en elle, et de  leur engagement vis-à-vis d'une coopération vraiment multilatérale.
2.10 Une troisième conclusion s'impose : le soutien que vous avez apporté à la réforme que j'ai entreprise a été, je  crois, unanime. Je suis à la fois honoré et très encouragé par vos nombreux commentaires positifs. Bien sûr, la réforme  n'est pas un événement, mais un processus. Un processus qui devra être poursuivi avec la même énergie dans les années  qui viennent, de manière à adapter notre Organisation aux réalités du monde actuel et à opérer le changement culturel  qui s'impose.
2.11 Je suis convaincu que la décentralisation est l'un des aspects majeurs de ce processus de réforme. Réussir la  décentralisation, rapprocher nos structures, mais surtout notre action des pays eux-mêmes, de leurs besoins réels, sera  l'épreuve de vérité. Je sais que nous n'en sommes qu'à la toute première étape, même si celle-ci a été la plus  spectaculaire, et sans doute aussi la plus douloureuse. Beaucoup reste encore à faire, en termes de personnel, de budget,  d'infrastructures, de communication. Il nous faudra élaborer de véritables stratégies régionales et sous-régionales,  changer la nature des relations entre le Siège et les unités et bureaux hors Siège. Je suis pour ma part déterminé à  réussir, et suis confiant que je pourrai faire état de progrès substantiels à cet égard lors de la prochaine session de notre  Conférence générale.  (The Director-General continues in English)
2.12 Mr President, Madam Chairperson, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me now comment on specific areas  which were highlighted during the general policy debate.
2.13 Many delegations pointed to the enormous strides we made with the declaration on cultural diversity. I can  only repeat to you what I said in my introductory statement, namely, that the motto “learning to live together in cultural  diversity” is surely one of the Organization’s principal tasks, so cruelly highlighted as a top priority by recent events. In  this regard, I welcome the broad support expressed concerning the initiative I have proposed for the cultural heritage of  the Old City of Jerusalem.
2.14 Many speakers drew attention to the linkage between the dialogue among civilizations and UNESCO’s  enduring responsibility for the culture of peace. I fully agree that there is no alternative to a patient, long and sometimes  protracted process of building peace in the minds of men, women and children. Not only is it our mission enshrined in  the Constitution, but the alternative would be inaction, indifference and defeat. UNESCO, as lead agency within the  United Nations system for the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the  World, will seek to build on the extraordinary global mobilization achieved during the International Year for the  Culture of Peace. Education for citizenship, values education, human rights education and, of course, the related efforts  to enhance dialogue among civilizations will be a vital dimension of this ongoing endeavour.
2.15 This latter area, dialogue among civilizations and cultures, cannot but be reinforced, in the view of many  delegations, especially in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks against the United States. Presidents Obasanjo, Chirac  and Adamkus spoke most eloquently about the nexus between dialogue, diversity, respect for the other, shared values  and the practical lessons for international, national and community relations. You, Mr President, have long championed  this cause. Fate has it that, as the world is confronted with a wave of terrorism, we are observing the year 2001 as
440  United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. UNESCO had in reality assumed the lead role in organizing  events and initiating activities, such as the New York Presidential Round Table, conferences in Tashkent, Vilnius,  Tokyo and Kyoto, and many other significant events around the world. As I announced, I shall pursue the proposal to  convene, at the highest political level, a conference which will serve to take stock of the accomplishments and lessons  of that Year 2001 and chart the way for a long-term endeavour, especially by UNESCO, to concretize and bolster a  broad-based dialogue.
2.16 In that connection, the debate has highlighted ethical issues and the question of commonly shared values as  crucial dimensions of UNESCO’s work. I referred to this earlier and, to be sure, they are principal elements of the  Organization’s mandate in all its areas of competence; hence the welcome spotlight in the debate on UNESCO’s role in  the ethics of poverty alleviation, the ethics of science and technology in general, bioethics, ethics and education, and  infoethics – as well as their interrelationships.
2.17 Ethical issues indeed preoccupy not only governments and experts. Civil society at large feels greatly  concerned, and is increasingly questioning scientific and technical developments from a moral and ethical perspective,  emphasizing the fine line between the possible and the acceptable. UNESCO will have a dual remit: serving as an  intellectual and policy forum is one, preparing normative instruments the other. Universal solutions may have to be  reconciled with regional approaches, as we seek to balance globalization with diversity in the ethical sphere too.
2.18 Your unanimous support for my proposal for the ethics of science and technology as the principal priority of  Major Programme III for the Social and Human Sciences Sector during the next biennium is most encouraging. Equally,  the Round Table of Ministers of Science on bioethics, attended by some 50 ministers, sends a strong signal of  UNESCO’s preparedness to tackle the crucial issues of our time. I am confident that UNESCO is uniquely positioned,  by virtue of its experience and expertise, to continue playing the lead role in this area, as it has done over many years. It  is important to avoid the creation of parallel bodies. At the same time, we must strengthen and consolidate inter-agency  coordination in the rapidly changing area of bioethics and encourage other agencies to participate and contribute  according to their respective competencies.
2.19 Forty years ago, Jawaharlal Nehru dubbed UNESCO the “ethical conscience of mankind”. This may be too  generous a characterization. Nevertheless, we must strive to live up to that expectation in as concrete a fashion as  possible; for example, by advancing standard-setting in bioethics and other areas. The Secretariat stands ready, through  the diverse competencies assembled in the various sectors, to assist governments in taking up the different ethical issues  at hand and to do justice to their complexity.
2.20 In the normative and standard-setting area, many delegations applauded the accomplishments of the  Organization thus far in its ground-breaking work aimed at generating international instruments and standards  concerning the underwater heritage, the intangible heritage, cultural diversity (as I have just said), bioethics, cyberspace  and multilingualism. These tasks are the direct materialization of what has been identified as one of the three main  strategic axes around which the Organization’s mission is to be implemented. It is one of the raisons d’être of  UNESCO and we will seek to strengthen our support to governments in this area. As regards the intangible heritage, I  have carefully noted your views concerning the further work we need to do, and we shall indeed apply ourselves to the  necessary clarification of the concept as a prerequisite for normative action.
2.21 I welcome the strong linkages many of you made between the goals of education and those of poverty  eradication. Poverty eradication is at once a compelling ethical mission, and our daily challenge in our work in basic  education. Many of you indeed spoke at length about Education for All (EFA). UNESCO has accepted and integrated  fully into its Medium-Term Strategy the six commitments agreed at the World Education Forum in Dakar. We are ready  to assist countries in formal and non-formal education, we are ready to support efforts to enhance the quality of  education, we are ready to take the lead in promoting preventive education as a means to fight against HIV/AIDS, we  are ready to bolster the reform of educational systems, we are ready to ensure the operation of the EFA observatory as a  prerequisite for evidence-based policy formulation and, as we have already demonstrated, we are ready to bring  together all the partners in the EFA movement in order to facilitate the formulation of national EFA plans and to  mobilize the required resources.
2.22 The pursuit of EFA is an enormously challenging and complex task, and many delegations have recognized  this in their interventions. What UNESCO needs, for its part, is more substantive and generous support from the  international community to enable us to perform fully to your expectations. I am thinking here less in terms of extra  financial resources, though these will certainly be required. Rather, I would like to invite countries able to do so to  provide us with human resources, for a limited period of time or for specific regions or issues. This can be done through  the detachment of experts or other modalities. In particular, I would like to see more experts and expertise from  developing countries involved and integrated into this overall exercise.
2.23 In the past, in order to highlight the particular disadvantages of certain regions or groups, notably Africa, the  least developed countries (LDCs), women and youth, UNESCO has made special institutional arrangements. Today, it  is imperative that these special areas of concern are genuinely mainstreamed into the broad channels of UNESCO’s  work, in terms of effective and productive action. What is clear is that the problems have not gone away or lessened in  severity; if anything, they are getting worse in many parts of the world. As the world economy drifts towards recession,  the plight of many developing countries, and the communities and individuals they contain, will become more serious.  Let me stress again that, throughout the full range of its programmes, UNESCO will mainstream concrete responses to  the needs of Africa and the LDCs, fully responding to the priorities set by the leaders of these countries. In that  connection, I am pleased to inform you that on 8 and 9 November 2001, UNESCO will organize in Paris an  international seminar on future approaches and strategies for the development of Africa in the twenty-first century. I  look forward to your active attendance at this important event.
2.24 The same applies to the pursuit of the goals of gender equality. During the debate, I noted in this regard that  particular emphasis was given to ensuring access at all levels to quality education for girls and women, including  science education. We shall certainly address these issues. Similarly, we shall integrate our ongoing and undiminished  concern for youth into our programmes and activities. The holding of the Youth Forum at this General Conference  session was one illustration of that concern. I shall come back to this later.
2.25 I mentioned earlier the overwhelming concern expressed about human security. This is indeed one of the  strategic objectives of the Medium-Term Strategy. We can and must do more to respond to the desperate needs of the  most vulnerable societies and the most vulnerable segments of those societies. This certainly applies to those living in  extreme poverty, and also those who are victims of exclusion, discrimination and marginalization. We need to deepen  and extend our understanding of human insecurity and vulnerability and the way they are linked to various forms of  disempowerment; for example, through the devaluation or destruction of a people’s cultural world, as expressed through  local and indigenous knowledge, languages, customs and values, and livelihoods. How UNESCO addresses the  question of human security should also be seen in the context of the agreements reached at the World Conference  against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance.
2.26 To maximize our comparative advantages, our work regarding human security must be undertaken on several  levels. It must also be closely linked to our various activities in advancing sustainable development, especially in  preparation for next year’s Rio+10 Conference on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. The sterling role played  by the five intergovernmental and international scientific committees lays a solid foundation for UNESCO’s future  contribution to sustainability. The principal priority “water and ecosystems”, which I have proposed for the Natural  Sciences Sector for the next two years, will add to the competencies offered by UNESCO and will contribute  constructively to the international mobilization leading towards Johannesburg. Good governance, human rights,  pluralism and democracy, as well as a renewal of the Organization’s engagement with civil society, will be other core  issues for the future which will also be framed in the context of conflict prevention and fostering social stability.
2.27 The delegate of Liberia characterized UNESCO in wonderful imagery as “a colossal fountain of knowledge  and learning”. The theme of our second cross-cutting strategy for the medium-term is intended to help tap this fountain.  If UNESCO wants to succeed as a global knowledge broker and empowerment agent, it must help to apply information  and communication technologies in education, science and culture and in the construction of a knowledge society.
2.28 In that effort, I agree with the speakers who pointed out that we must avoid being carried away by the dazzling  opportunities of cutting-edge technologies. Rather, I would envision UNESCO as a pioneer and intermediary to link and  mesh traditional media and technologies, such as radio and television, with the technically more demanding – and  expensive – tools such as the Internet. We have already successfully demonstrated the potential of such linkages  through the community centres in Kothmale in Sri Lanka and Timbuktu in Mali. Building and expanding UNESCO’s  role in distance education, especially for non-formal educational approaches, will be another niche which we are well  positioned to occupy, driven by intersectoral activities drawing on the expertise available in the Education and  Communication and Information Sectors. Many delegations correctly stressed that the technological chasm between the  “haves” and the “have-nots” is widening every day. They demand that we prove our resolve and mettle through more  concrete action and projects, and less through talk and the design of yet another action programme which may never be  implemented.
2.29 By the way, it is noteworthy how much the deliberations of the Youth Forum focused on the digital divide,  along with other key themes and issues. I was very happy that we managed, with a minimum of resources, to organize  this Forum. And I was even happier when I learned of the relevance of the Forum’s recommendations. Let me just  single out three of them, as they are very pertinent to the agenda of this General Conference. Firstly, with respect to  poverty, the youth delegates proposed “a new vision of globalization, putting people before material values” and  stressed that “poverty is a denial of basic human rights”. While they called for specific action, they also offered
442  themselves as a resource, emphasizing that peer education and non-formal education in general are essential to achieve  development goals. Secondly, with regard to the role of information and communication technologies, the Youth Forum  underlined that “using the appropriate technology is vital and ICT projects must not be limited to the Internet”.  Traditional media will remain important instruments to spread information and UNESCO should support training and  networking of student radio stations and assist in creating telecentres. Thirdly, in the “Youth Declaration on Terrorism  and War”, the Forum delegates expressed their wish “to build a future based on education for all, a culture of peace,  scientific cooperation, respect for cultural diversity and call for a permanent dialogue among cultures and civilizations”.
2.30 We all should be proud of having created this opportunity for exchange and dialogue and for seeking solutions.  I wish to commend all the participants, organizers and sponsors for this successful event, for their dedication and for the  quality of their deliberations. I hope we can organize such a Forum again in the future.
2.31 As we reach out to youth, so must we reach out to all our constituencies of support and partnership. UNESCO  has no intention of attempting to do everything alone. We need to work in collaboration with all parts of the  community, some of which are long-standing partners, while others are relatively new. A long-established partnership  exists, of course, with the National Commissions, one of the main pillars of UNESCO; the need to strengthen this  partnership was emphasized by many speakers. As you know, prior to this General Conference, I had taken the initiative  to write to all Member States to share with them my concern that National Commissions be given proper resources and  recognition to facilitate their important role as part of the overall constitutional infrastructure of the Organization. I can  assure you that I will continue the dialogue with our National Commissions and examine the best possible ways to  support them. Let us find together innovative approaches to strengthen the National Commissions through support for  capacity-building and in programme implementation. All UNESCO’s field offices, for their part, have the responsibility  to work closely with National Commissions towards these goals.
2.32 If we are serious about outreach and broadening the range of partnership, we must also strengthen our relations  with civil society and its constituent elements. EFA is a case in point, where there is a clear need to develop a new  culture of policy dialogue that brings civil society into regular conversation with government, the private sector and the  international community. UNESCO can facilitate this exchange by continuing its constructive and inclusive dialogue  with our non-governmental organization partners and other representatives of civil society. I was particularly pleased by  the supportive statement made for my proposals in this area by the President of the International Conference of Non- Governmental Organizations.
2.33 In conclusion, let me again thank each and every delegation for the enormous wealth of thoughtful and  constructive statements. You are UNESCO – and the Secretariat will respond as fully as possible to your aspirations,  suggestions and decisions. As Director-General, I pledge to you that, during the next two years before the General  Conference convenes again, the Secretariat will strive to fulfil your expectations and to do so in a responsive,  responsible and transparent manner.
2.34 Perhaps you will allow me to close with a personal comment, which echoes a hope expressed by many of you.  There is in this hall a consensus regarding the renewed relevance and credibility of this Organization and a shared  conviction that the recent events in the United States make that relevance stand out in even sharper relief. This elicits a  third observation: the international community more than ever needs a UNESCO of universal membership if it is to  carry out its mission to the full. Let us hope that all nations and all UNESCO’s constituencies will actively engage in  our efforts to build the new UNESCO.
3. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for your extremely comprehensive response to Member States’  comments. I listened to your statement very carefully and felt very proud of our Organization, of such a wide range of  expectations, duties and responsibilities, and of such a spirit of readiness to address the issues in so many fields. I was  deeply moved, for example, when you said: “We are ready to assist countries in formal and non-formal education, we  are ready to support efforts to enhance the quality of education, we are ready to take the lead in promoting preventive  education as a means to fight against HIV/AIDS, we are ready to bolster the reform of educational systems, we are  ready to ensure the operation of the EFA observatory as a prerequisite for evidence-based policy formulation and, as we  have already demonstrated, we are ready to bring together all the partners in the EFA movement in order to facilitate the  formulation of national EFA plans and to mobilize the required resources.” And so we feel very proud, in the  knowledge of the heavy responsibility we bear and the very strong will that is needed to pursue these ends. Thank you  very much again.
4. The PRESIDENT:   I would like now to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, about the procedure for the election of the Members of  the Executive Board which will take place on Friday 26 October. The General Committee recommended this morning at  its fourth meeting that a special plenary meeting be held on Friday at 5.30 p.m. to announce the results of the election.  According to the Rules of Procedure I have designated Madam Karvelis, the distinguished Ambassador of Lithuania  and Vice-President of the General Conference, to supervise the voting, and she kindly accepted. I have also designated  for this purpose six tellers, who are the following: Ms Seguin of France, Ms Veleva of Bulgaria, Ms Moreira de  Lemoine of El Salvador, Ms Zia of Pakistan, Mr Vieira of Guinea Bisseau and Mr Elghaly of the Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya. I thank them all for having accepted this responsibility. The election will be held on 26 October in Room V  between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. Since the election will be starting at 9 a.m. on Friday, the General Committee will not meet.   RAPPORTS DU COMITÉ JURIDIQUE  REPORTS OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  INFORMES DEL COMITÉ JURÍDICO  ДОКЛАДЫ ЮРИДИЧЕСКОГО КОМИТЕТА  א א   法律委员会报告
5. The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished colleagues, we are now going to examine the reports of the Legal Committee on items 4.3, 5.6,
5.7, 5.10, 6.1, 7.2, 7.5 and 8.1 of the agenda. I recall that the sixth and tenth reports concerning amendments to the  Constitution will be examined at a later stage. I now invite the Chairperson of the Legal Committee, Ambassador  Samuel Fernandez, to present these reports. You have the floor, Sir.
6.1 M. FERNANDEZ ILLANES (Chili), président du Comité juridique :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, les points de  l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale attribués au Comité juridique sont les suivants : points 4.3, 5.6, 5.7, 5.10, 6.1,
6.2, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5 et 8.1. Du fait que certains points devaient être examinés également par les commissions de  programme et par la Commission administrative, leur examen par le Comité juridique s'est effectué en fonction des  priorités. C'est pourquoi je vous propose d'examiner les rapports du Comité juridique dans leur ordre chronologique et  non en suivant l'ordre du jour. Il m'a été demandé de présenter les sixième et dixième rapports, relatifs aux points 7.3  et 7.4 de l'ordre du jour concernant des amendements à l'Acte constitutif, à une autre séance plénière comme vous l'avez  indiqué, Monsieur le Président, compte tenu de la procédure particulière à suivre. Je vais donc vous présenter  successivement les premier, deuxième, troisième, quatrième, cinquième, septième, huitième, neuvième et onzième  rapports du Comité juridique.
6.2 Le premier rapport du Comité porte sur la prorogation de la compétence du Tribunal administratif (point 7.2 de  l'ordre du jour, document 31 C/71). La recommandation du Directeur général de renouveler la reconnaissance de la  compétence du Tribunal administratif de l'Organisation internationale du travail (TAOIT) pour connaître de litiges entre  l'administration de l'UNESCO et ses fonctionnaires ne soulève pas de problème d'ordre juridique. Aussi le Comité  juridique a-t-il décidé de recommander à la Conférence générale d'adopter le projet de résolution figurant au  paragraphe 3 de son premier rapport.
6.3 Le deuxième rapport du Comité a trait aux critères de recevabilité des projets de résolution tendant à l'adoption  d'amendements au Projet de programme et de budget (point 6.1 de l'ordre du jour, documents 31 C/16 et 31 C/72).  Depuis sa 29e session, la Conférence générale a adopté une procédure pour le traitement des projets de résolution  tendant à amender le Projet de programme et de budget, en application des articles 80 et 81 de son Règlement intérieur.  Cette procédure offre aux auteurs de ces projets de résolution apparaissant de prime abord irrecevables de l'avis du  Directeur général la possibilité de demander à la Conférence générale de se prononcer en dernier ressort sur leur  recevabilité par l'entremise du Comité juridique. En novembre 2000, le Comité juridique, qui, depuis la 30e session de  la Conférence générale, peut siéger entre deux sessions de la Conférence générale, a élaboré une note explicative que le  Secrétariat a communiqué à tous les Etats membres afin qu'elle serve de guide pour la présentation des projets de  résolution tendant à amender le Projet de programme et de budget. Cette note explicative figure dans le document
31 C/12, que la plénière a adopté le 16 octobre dernier. Le Comité juridique, dans sa nouvelle composition, en a pris  acte.
6.4 Le troisième rapport du Comité porte sur l'examen de la recevabilité des projets de résolution tendant à  l'adoption d'amendements au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2002-2003 (point 4.3 de l'ordre du jour, document
31 C/73). C'est suivant les critères exposés dans le document 31 C/2, dont je viens de faire état en présentant le  deuxième rapport du Comité juridique, que le Comité a examiné les 21 projets de résolution apparaissant de prime  abord irrecevables, de l'avis du Directeur général. Il a recommandé : (i) que soient déclarés recevables sept projets de  résolution, et (ii) que soient déclarés irrecevables dix projets de résolution. Le Comité a pris acte du retrait de quatre  projets de résolution par les Etats membres concernés. Le Comité juridique a précisé que les projets de résolution visant  uniquement à amender la rédaction des paragraphes de dispositif du Projet de programme et de budget de manière à  modifier la présentation des lignes d'action générale y incluses doivent être considérés comme recevables alors même  qu'ils n'ont aucune incidence financière directe. Pour ce qui est des projets de résolution visant à améliorer la rédaction  des parties narratives du Projet de programme et de budget (C/5) déclarés irrecevables, un membre du Comité a rappelé  que les Etats membres pouvaient parvenir à ce résultat par d'autres voies que la présentation d'un projet de résolution.
6.5 Le quatrième rapport du Comité a trait au rapport du Directeur général relatif aux premiers rapports spéciaux  des Etats membres sur la mise en oeuvre de la Recommandation concernant la condition du personnel enseignant de  l'enseignement supérieur (point 8.1 de l'ordre du jour, document 31 C/74). Concernant la mise en oeuvre de cette  recommandation, adoptée en 1997 par la Conférence générale à sa 29e session, seuls deux Etats membres ont soumis un  premier rapport spécial, conformément au paragraphe 2 de l'article 16 du Règlement relatif aux recommandations aux  Etats membres et aux conventions internationales prévues par l'article IV, paragraphe 4, de l'Acte constitutif. Le Comité  juridique a pris note de l'activité de programme proposée par le Directeur général au sujet de ladite recommandation. Il  a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'inviter le Directeur général à lui soumettre à sa 32e session des propositions  de modification des procédures par lesquelles les Etats membres sont invités à informer l'Organisation de la suite  donnée par eux aux conventions ou recommandations adoptées par la Conférence générale. La Commission II a elle  aussi examiné ce point 8.1 de l'ordre du jour. Elle a adopté le projet de résolution recommandé par le Comité juridique à  la Conférence générale tel qu'il figure au paragraphe 4 du quatrième rapport.
6.6 Le cinquième rapport du Comité porte sur les propositions relatives à l'adaptation aux besoins de l'Organisation  du "Règlement relatif à la classification d'ensemble des diverses catégories de réunions convoquées par l'UNESCO"  (point 6.2 de l'ordre du jour, document 31 C/75). Tout en suivant la recommandation du Conseil exécutif contenue dans  sa décision 162 EX/7.11, le Comité juridique a estimé qu'il ne fallait pas exclure la possibilité de réaliser à l'avenir une  meilleure adéquation du "Règlement relatif à la classification d'ensemble des diverses catégories de réunions  convoquées par l'UNESCO" aux besoins de l'Organisation. La Commission I est appelée à examiner elle aussi ce  point 6.2 de l'ordre du jour. Le projet de résolution recommandé par le Comité juridique à la Conférence générale figure  au paragraphe 3 de son cinquième rapport.
6.7 Le septième rapport du Comité porte sur la proposition d'établissement de l'Institut UNESCO-IHE pour  l'éducation relative à l'eau (point 5.6 de l'ordre du jour, documents 31 C/47 et 31 C/77). Le Comité juridique a constaté  qu'il n'existe aucun obstacle juridique à l'adoption du projet de statuts de l'Institut. Il a recommandé un léger  amendement au projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 21 du document 31 C/47, ainsi qu'un amendement à  l'article XII de ce projet de statuts. La Commission III est appelée à examiner elle aussi ce point 5.6 de l'ordre du jour.  Les recommandations du Comité juridique figurent aux paragraphes 2 et 3 de son septième rapport. Un membre du  Comité juridique a mis l'accent sur l'opportunité d'établir des statuts types susceptibles d'être utilisés lors de la création  d'autres organes, instituts ou centres.
6.8 Le huitième rapport du Comité a trait à la proposition d'établir le Centre régional sur la gestion de l'eau dans les  zones urbaines à Téhéran, sous les auspices de l'UNESCO (point 5.7 de l'ordre du jour, document 31 C/78). Le Comité  juridique a constaté qu'il n'existe aucun obstacle juridique à la création de ce centre sous les auspices de l'UNESCO. Il a  recommandé à la Conférence générale le projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 2 de son huitième rapport. La  Commission III est appelée à examiner elle aussi ce point 5.7 de l'ordre du jour.
6.9 Le neuvième rapport du Comité porte sur l'amendement au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale  (articles 39 et 40 relatifs au Comité du Siège - point 7.5 de l'ordre du jour, document 31 C/79). Les modifications  proposées tendent à assurer un meilleur fonctionnement du Comité du Siège en donnant plus de continuité dans  l'engagement des Etats membres qui y participent. Aucun problème juridique ne s'oppose à l'adoption de l'amendement  proposé. Le Comité a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'adopter les dispositions modificatrices qui figurent au  paragraphe 2 de son neuvième rapport. La Commission administrative a elle aussi examiné le point 7.5 de l'ordre du  jour. Elle s'est prononcée dans le même sens que le Comité juridique.
6.10 Le onzième et dernier rapport porte sur la proposition de création en Egypte, sous les auspices de l'UNESCO,  d'un centre régional de formation et d'étude des problèmes de l'eau en zones arides et semi-arides (point 5.10 de l'ordre
445  du jour, document 31 C/81). Le Comité juridique a constaté qu'il n'existe pas d'obstacle juridique à la création de ce  Centre sous les auspices de l'UNESCO. Il a recommandé à la Conférence générale le projet de résolution figurant au  paragraphe 3 de son onzième rapport. La Commission III est elle aussi appelée à examiner ce point 5.10 de l'ordre du  jour. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
7. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much, Ambassador Fernandez, distinguished Chairperson of the Legal Committee.  Distinguished colleagues, you have heard the reports of the Legal Committee. May I consider that the General  Conference takes note of the reports and adopts the draft resolutions contained therein? It is so decided. Thank you very  much.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE SUR LE POINT 1.3 : RAPPORT DU DIRECTEUR  GÉNÉRAL SUR LES COMMUNICATIONS REÇUES DES ETATS MEMBRES INVOQUANT LES  DISPOSITIONS DE L'ARTICLE IV.C, PARAGRAPHE 8 (c), DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF  REPORT BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON ITEM 1.3: REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  ON COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED FROM MEMBER STATES INVOKING THE PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE  IV.C, PARAGRAPH 8(c) OF THE CONSTITUTION  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN ADMINISTRATIVA SOBRE EL PUNTO 1.3: INFORME DEL DIRECTOR  GENERAL SOBRE LAS COMUNICACIONES RECIBIDAS DE LOS ESTADOS MIEMBROS EN LAS QUE SE  INVOCA LO DISPUESTO EN EL ARTÍCULO IV.C, PÁRRAFO 8 APARTADO c) DE LA CONSTITUCIÓN  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ ПО АДМИНИСТРАТИВНЫМ ВОПРОСАМ ПО ПУНКТУ 1.3: ДОКЛАД  ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОГО ДИРЕКТОРА О СООБЩЕНИЯХ, ПОЛУЧЕННЫХ ОТ ГОСУДАРСТВ-ЧЛЕНОВ В СВЯЗИ С  ПОЛОЖЕНИЯМИ ПУНКТА 8 (с) СТАТЬИ IV.C УСТАВА  א א א א:١,٣א א אא א א א א )(٨א א א א)(א א   行政委员会关于项目 1.3 的报告：总干事关于会员国援引《组织法》第 IV.C 条第 8(C)段条款的来函的报告
8. The PRESIDENT:   We now come to item 1.3: Report by the Director-General on communications received from Member States  invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution. I should like to give the floor now to the  distinguished Chairperson of the Administrative Commission who will present his report on this question. Ambassador  Stanton, you have the floor.
9.1 Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Thank you, Sir, and good morning ladies and gentlemen. As required under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, the Administrative Commission examined Member States’ communications invoking the  provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution at the commencement of its work. It was recalled that the  deadline for the acceptance of such communications should be 17 October 2001. In this respect, it was noted that all  Member States that had submitted communications by that date could continue to vote until such time as the General  Conference in plenary might decide otherwise on the basis of the report of the Administrative Commission.
9.2 The Commission set up a working group to make a detailed case-by-case study of communications and to  suggest recommendations for the Commission’s consideration. The working group consisted of Algeria, the Islamic  Republic of Iran, the Czech Republic, Nigeria (Chairperson), Saint Lucia and Spain and met on 19, 20, and 22 October.  By the deadline of 17 October, 25 communications had been submitted to request exceptions to the voting rights  provisions as stipulated in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. Within the  framework of the provisions stipulated in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the  working group tried to review as positively as possible the requests received from Member States. Particular attention  was given to respect for payment plans and the commitment made to reduce the total amount of arrears. The Member  States concerned were involved in the decision-making process and, as appropriate, they were invited to provide  additional information. Following its deliberations the working group reported to the Administrative Commission in the  case of 5 of the 25 communications examined. Those Member States have paid the amount required to obtain voting  rights since submitting their request and therefore their communications were considered to be withdrawn, reducing the  number to be studied in detail to 20. The countries for which payments were received were: Belarus, Bosnia and  Herzegovina, Congo, Estonia and Yemen. The working group felt that for 11 of the 20 remaining cases, exceptions  could be made to the relevant provisions on voting rights, whereas there were nine cases where it could not recommend  such exceptions on the basis of information provided by the Member States. I would like to read out the names of the
11 Member States that, in the opinion of the Administrative Commission, should be granted the right to vote on the  basis of the communications received from them: Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Iraq, Nauru, Tajikistan,  Azerbaijan, Central African Republic, Gambia, Equatorial Guinea, Paraguay and Sudan.
9.3 I shall now turn to the other group of States that the Administrative Commission did not see fit to recommend  as being eligible for the right to vote because of the information that had been received by the end of the examination of  these matters in the working group. Those nine States are: Armenia, Chad, Comoros, Georgia, Guinea Bissau,  Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova, Sao Tome and Principe and Sierra Leone.
9.4 Mr President, the Commission would like to emphasize the importance of Member States respecting  commitments made for the settlement of arrears when presenting their request for voting rights, and in particular for the  timely payment of instalments due under payment plans as well as of current contributions.
9.5 Sir, I could not conclude on this item without bringing to the attention of the plenary the difficulties of the  Member States which were formerly part of the Soviet Union to pay their contributions and to respect payment plans  because of not only the difficult economic and political conditions in these countries but also the unrealistic scale of  assessments inherited from the former Soviet Union. Several delegates supported this group of Member States and the  Commission felt that the General Conference should invite the Executive Board to explore possibilities for solving  these long-standing problems, taking into account the experience of the United Nations and other United Nations  agencies.
9.6 Sir, after the Commission had completed its work on this matter, I received the following letter from the  National Commission of the Republic of Tajikistan: “Paris, 23 October 2001. Following further examination of the  situation with regard to Tajikistan’s dues to the budget of UNESCO, the Delegation of the Republic of Tajikistan  wishes to withdraw its letter dated 22.l0.2001 on acceptance of the payment plan proposed by the working group.  Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. Erling Salimov, Deputy Minister of Culture, Deputy Chairman,  Tajikistan National Commission for UNESCO”. This somewhat exceptional situation is now a matter for the plenary. It  may assist the plenary to know that the Commission did not see fit to recommend the right to vote in the absence of a  communication from a Member State. Thank you, sir.
10. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. I gather from your report that the  Administrative Commission considered that a total of eleven Member States should be given voting rights in  conformity with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. I now ask the Secretary of the General  Conference to read out the list of those States.
11. LE SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Ces 11 Etats sont les suivants : République démocratique du Congo, Gabon,  Irak, Nauru, Tadjikistan, Azerbaïdjan, République centrafricaine, Gambie, Guinée équatoriale, Paraguay et Soudan. Je  dois rappeler toutefois que le Tadjikistan vient de faire l'objet d'une observation particulière de la part du Président de la  Commission administrative. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
12. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of the General Conference. Ambassador Stanton, may I ask your advice as  to how we should proceed in the case of Tajikistan? I would like to have the opinion of the plenary.
13. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   The Administrative Commission has completed its work and so it is not possible for the Commission to take  account of this subsequent communication from Tajikistan, but, as the plenary will have noted, Tajikistan wishes to  withdraw its earlier communication accepting the payment plan proposed by the working group. Thank you, sir.
14. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I see that Armenia would like the floor. You have the floor, Madam.
15. Ms ASATURIAN (Armenia):   Thank you, Mr President. As you understand from the report of the Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission, Ambassador Stanton, the issue was raised by the delegations of several countries of the former Soviet  Union, now independent States. There were six of us and the issue was the following: we stressed, and remind this high  forum, that for the first three and a half years the rate has been assessed according to the GDP of the former Soviet  Union, which was absolutely unrealistic for those years. Those were probably the most difficult years, especially for my  country, when we were overcoming a shortage of electricity and suffering from severe, cold winters without heating,  the conflict, the blockade, the flood of refugees, and so on. That was the picture for the first three and a half years for  my country and it is a burden we are still carrying now, from year to year, and it would be very difficult for us even in  the coming years to pay according to the payment plan which we have been trying to follow. And so for this reason I  would like to ask this high forum to find a solution for all of us, not only for my country. I do not think that we would  benefit, any of us, either the Organization or the Member States, if we were excluded from full participation in the  Organization’s work. I just wanted to ask you to find a solution for these countries – either to reconsider the first three
447  years or to accept for us a special payment plan for a longer duration, for 10 or 12 years. This might be more or less  realistic and would mean we could fully participate in the Organization’s work, for otherwise I do not think that in the  next biennium the situation would be more positive for us. Thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam, for the clarification and explanation. We have, of course, tried to understand  your problem. Before we start our discussion, before I ask the plenary for its opinion about the nine countries mentioned  by the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission as not to be accorded voting rights, I would first like you to  consider the eleven countries that the Administrative Commission recommended should have voting rights. After that  we will discuss the nine countries, including Armenia, whose explanation we will consider at that time. As I understood  from the statement made by the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, we cannot now include Tajikistan  among the eleven countries recommended by the Commission to have the right to vote. In that case I would like to see  the reaction of the plenary to the recommendation of the Commission concerning the other ten. I see the distinguished  delegate of the Republic of Moldova wishes to speak. You have the floor, Sir.
17. M. RUSNAC (République de Moldova) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La République de Moldova fait partie du groupe de neuf pays à qui le droit de  vote est retiré. Puis-je avoir la parole pour expliquer la situation de mon pays ?
18. The PRESIDENT:   Excuse me, Sir, we will be coming to the group of nine countries when we finish with those we are considering  now. I see the distinguished delegate of the Central African Republic has asked for the floor. You have the floor, sir.
19. M. KOMBOT-NAGUEMON (République centrafricaine) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais rendre hommage à la Commission  administrative, qui a bien voulu recommander que les dix pays en question, parmi lesquels figure la République  centrafricaine, se voient accorder le droit de vote. Malgré de nombreuses difficultés, dues notamment aux multiples  tentatives de coups d'Etat auxquels, comme vous le savez, elle a dû faire face, la République centrafricaine n'a épargné  aucun effort pour entreprendre de régulariser sa situation financière et bénéficier du droit de vote. Je suis certain que la  plénière tiendra compte de ces efforts et suivra les recommandations de la Commission administrative. Je vous  remercie.
20. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the distinguished delegate of the Comoros.
21.1 M. SOILIHI (Comores) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, en ce qui concerne la suspension du droit de vote  infligée aux Comores pour cause d'arriérés de contributions, je dois tout d'abord vous informer que mon Ministère a  adressé à l'UNESCO une lettre expliquant les raisons de cet état de fait et demandant un accord sur un plan de paiement  des arriérés qui donnerait aux Comores la possibilité d'exercer leur droit de vote. La crise socio-économique que  connaissent les Comores s'est aggravée depuis 1997 à cause des velléités séparatistes de l'île d'Anjouan. L'essentiel des  efforts et les minces moyens du Gouvernement sont depuis lors investis dans la recherche de solutions permettant la  réconciliation nationale, la sauvegarde de la paix civile et le paiement régulier des agents de l'Etat. En outre, mon  Gouvernement a jugé prioritaire de régler la dette qu'il a contractée auprès des institutions financières afin qu'elles  débloquent les fonds destinés à la mise en oeuvre des grands projets communautaires de lutte contre la pauvreté.
21.2 En ce qui concerne notre coopération avec l'UNESCO, le Gouvernement comorien a alloué des moyens  financiers et humains au renforcement de la Commission nationale et à la participation régulière et active aux assises  internationales. Depuis sa création, la Commission nationale a été dotée d'un bureau et de personnel. Ces derniers mois,  de nouveaux efforts ont été consentis pour équiper la Commission en matériel. Par ailleurs les anciens locaux de  l'Assemblée nationale vont être transformés en centre culturel et en musée historique et nous aurons besoin du soutien  des différents programmes de l'UNESCO à cet effet.
21.3 La question du paiement des arriérés a maintes fois été posée par le Ministre de l'éducation auprès de son  homologue des finances. A la suite de ces discussions le règlement d'une bonne partie de la dette a été inscrit au budget  pour 2002. C'est pourquoi je demande que le dossier des arriérés de contributions des Comores soit réexaminé dans la  perspective d'un échelonnement de leur règlement et que notre pays soit autorisé à exercer son droit de vote. Il est certes  d'une importance cardinale que chaque pays règle ses contributions, mais il serait regrettable d'interdire à un petit pays,  qui est pauvre et au bord de l'éclatement, d'exercer son droit de vote.
21.4 Le Directeur général a souligné tout à l'heure que dans l'une de ses recommandations, le Forum des jeunes  avait insisté sur le fait que la pauvreté est un déni des droits fondamentaux. Les Comores invoquent leur situation  financière difficile pour n'être pas frappées du déni de droit de vote au sein de l'UNESCO. Nous renouvelons notre
448  engagement de participer à la mise en oeuvre des différents programmes de l'UNESCO en dépit de ces difficultés, que  nous souhaitons passagères, et ne saisirons pas ce prétexte pour nous y soustraire. Les efforts que nous fournissons ça et  là pour continuer à participer aux programmes de l'UNESCO ne doivent pas être occultés par le fait que nous n'avons  pas pu honorer nos obligations en matière de paiement de nos contributions.
21.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous comptons sur votre indulgence et votre compréhension pour que le droit de vote  soit restitué à la délégation des Comores de manière que mon pays puisse exercer pleinement sa souveraineté, même s'il  vit en ce moment une situation politique et financière difficile. Malgré toutes nos difficultés, nous avons tenu à être  représentés à cette session de la Conférence au niveau ministériel. Je vous remercie.
22. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished delegate of Comoros. As I mentioned, your explanation will be related to  the next part of our discussion on the report concerning the nine countries which are not to have the right to vote. For  the time being we are hearing opinions from the eleven countries in the first category, which have now become ten  because Tajikistan excluded itself by virtue of that letter. I see that the Gambia would like to take the floor. You have  the floor, distinguished delegate.
23. Ms NDONG-JATTA (Gambia):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Director-General, I would like first of all to express my  appreciation of the work of the Administrative Commission. I observe that this matter of considering countries unable  to pay their contributions has become a regular feature of the work of the Administrative Commission during the  General Conference. In view of the fact that UNESCO stands for an all-inclusive policy and that there exists an  accepted classification of the status of States in the world, I would like to propose a recommendation so that we do not  have to consider each time we meet the States that cannot contribute. Let us adopt the recommendation I suggested  during the general policy debate to grant the LDCs an exemption from contributions. I believe UNESCO continues to  perform its role very well even in the absence of these contributions and to consider LDCs as a special case would help.  I appreciate that the Gambia has been given the right to vote this time, but this problem looks as if it is one that will  continue to recur. Thank you very much.
24. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam, for your remarks. May I take it now that the General Conference agrees to give  voting rights to the ten Member States mentioned? It is so decided. Distinguished Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission, is there anything you would like to add?
25. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Sir, I would like to refer to that part of the report of the Commission relating to the difficulties being faced by  Member States which were formerly part of the Soviet Union. Clearly, in respect of the present recommendations by the  Administrative Commission we were bound by the Constitution and the rules that have been established by the General  Conference. But looking to the future, it did seem to the Commission that it was appropriate to give some special  consideration to the particular problems of these countries, which until the current year faced what might reasonably be  described as an unsustainable level of assessment which had been inherited from the old Soviet Union. In respect of the  current year, the Organization has adopted the new scale of assessment that was recommended by the United Nations in  New York and that has very substantially reduced the assessments on these countries to a sustainable level and  therefore, depending on the decision that is taken by this Conference in respect of future assessments, there may well  not be a similar problem in the future. It is a historical problem as perceived from the present point in time and the  recommendation of the Commission was that this Conference might like to invite the Executive Board to examine this  particular historical problem, consider the action being taken by the other parts of the United Nations system where a  similar problem is necessarily faced by these countries, and consider what steps might reasonably be taken. Thank you,  sir.
26. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. I think it is very logical that the  Board should look into this issue in the future. However, according to the report made by the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission, nine countries are not in conformity with the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of  Procedure and therefore, unfortunately, should not obtain voting rights. May I ask the Secretary of the General  Conference to read out the names of these nine countries again.
27. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il s'agit maintenant de dix pays, puisque le Tadjikistan a changé de catégorie.  Ces dix pays qui devraient être privés du droit de vote sont les suivants : Arménie, Tchad, Comores, Géorgie, Guinée  Bissau, Kirghizistan, République de Moldova, Sao Tomé-et-Principe, Sierra Leone et Tadjikistan. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
28. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, sir. Having heard the reports, may I consider that the General Conference is in agreement with the  recommendations of the Administrative Commission concerning the voting rights of these ten countries? It is so  decided. Before adjourning this plenary meeting, I should like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General  Conference, who has an announcement to make. Mr Kol, you have the floor.
29. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci Monsieur le Président. Il s'agit d'une information qui concerne en fait la journée du 31 octobre, mais  comme cette séance est la dernière séance plénière avant le 31, mis à part la plénière de vendredi soir pour les élections  de membres du Conseil exécutif, je crois utile de vous donner cette information dès maintenant. Le Conseil exécutif  tiendra sa séance de clôture le 31 octobre à 16 h. 30 dans la salle X. Comme à l'accoutumée, les vice-présidents du  Conseil exécutif et les membres du Conseil exécutif qui le souhaiteront rendront hommage à la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif ainsi qu'aux membres du Conseil sortants. Les représentants des membres du Conseil sont donc invités à  participer à cette séance le 31 octobre à 16 h. 30 dans la salle X. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
30. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. We have now come to the end of our fifteenth plenary meeting. The meeting is  adjourned.      La séance est levée à 11h.45  The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 11.45  Заседание закрывается в 11.45  א ١١,٤٥א   会议于 11 时 45 分结束