19    Deuxième séance plénière
15 octobre 2001 à 15 h.10  Présidente : Mme MOSEROVÁ (République tchèque)  puis : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  Second plenary meeting
15 October 2001 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Ms MOSEROVÁ (Czech Republic)  later: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Segunda sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, may I invite you to resume your seats. I declare this second meeting open.
1.2 Let us now examine item 1.4 concerning the adoption of our agenda contained in document 31 C/1 (prov.)  Rev. which was prepared by the Executive Board at its 162nd session. The General Committee of the General  Conference will consider further items to be added to the agenda during its first meeting tomorrow morning. Pending  the arrival of the Chairperson so that she can present the draft agenda, I wish to say that this morning’s visitors certainly  contributed a great deal to our future deliberations. Both speeches were remarkable. We were duly reminded of the dire  needs of Africa and other parts of the world which lack access to education and to basic information, and His  Excellency the President of the host country certainly delivered a brilliant speech which we shall all bear in mind. So I  do hope that we shall proceed well in our work. The fact is that our Organization at this moment has suddenly increased  in importance. There is no doubt about that because the effort to combat hate which is being handed down from  generation to generation can really be made only by us and no other. There is no other United Nations agency or global  agency which can do the job. It is up to us and, as I said in my brief presentation, we shall certainly not allow a wedge  to be driven between us. We shall pursue the same aims and try to keep the world dignified, to protect the dignity of  man and to eliminate the efforts to break us and destroy our dignity. It will not be easy and it will take a long time, it  will not be done by tomorrow, but it is indeed up to us and no other agency. But of course, we have to work together  with the other United Nations agencies. It has to be a combined effort because as has been said, one of the ways to  combat terrorism, which is the greatest threat of the moment, is to cut off its financial resources. And that is not our  business. So it is a fact that we must necessarily cooperate with all the United Nations agencies. Let us hope that we  shall achieve our aims, that the Director-General will take all the appropriate steps and that the General Conference will  give him a free hand to that end. I now wish to ask Madam Mendieta de Badaroux to present the draft provisional  agenda to the General Conference.
2.1 Mme MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Présidente du Conseil exécutif :   Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués,  Mesdames, Messieurs, conformément aux dispositions de l'article V.B.6 (a) de l'Acte constitutif, le Conseil exécutif a  étudié, lors de sa 161e session, l'ordre du jour provisoire de la présente session de la Conférence générale sur la base du  document 161 EX/25 et Add., qui lui avait été soumis par le Directeur général. A l'issue de cet examen et compte tenu  des modifications apportées à ce document, le Conseil exécutif a adopté la décision 161 EX/6.1, aux termes de laquelle  "toutes autres questions qui pourraient être présentées par des Etats membres ou les Membres associés ou par  l'Organisation des Nations Unies, conformément à l'article 9 du Règlement intérieur, 100 jours au moins avant la date  fixée pour l'ouverture de la session (c'est-à-dire le 8 juillet 2001 au plus tard) seront inscrites à l'ordre du jour provisoire  qui sera ensuite communiqué aux Etats membres et Membres associés, 90 jours au moins ( c'est-à-dire le 18 juillet
2001) avant l'ouverture de la session".
2.2 Pendant la période comprise entre la fin de la 161e session du Conseil et le 18 juillet 2001, six questions  supplémentaires ont fait l'objet d'une demande d'inscription à l'ordre du jour provisoire. A sa 162e session, après avoir  examiné ces demandes soumises et reçues dans les délais réglementaires, soit six semaines avant l'ouverture de la  session, et conformément à l'article 13 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, le Conseil exécutif a décidé -  par sa décision 162 EX/6.1 - d'inclure cinq nouveaux points dans l'ordre du jour provisoire. Ces cinq points figurent  dans la liste de questions supplémentaires communiquée aux Etats membres et aux Membres associés, conformément  aux dispositions de l'article 12, paragraphe 3, du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, par une lettre circulaire  en date du 25 septembre 2001. Conformément à l'article 13 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, le  Conseil exécutif a établi, sur la base de l'ordre du jour provisoire et de la liste des questions supplémentaires, un ordre  du jour provisoire révisé.
2.3 Madame la Présidente, conformément à l'article 13 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale et au  nom du Conseil exécutif, j'ai l'insigne honneur et le plaisir de soumettre pour approbation à la Conférence générale  l'ordre du jour révisé de sa 31e session, contenu dans le document 31 C/1 (Prov.) Rev.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. Can we now adopt the agenda as proposed by the Executive Board, bearing in mind that the  General Conference may decide on the inclusion of any new items proposed by the General Committee in the report
21  which it will present to us following its first meeting. Are there any objections? Can we approve the agenda as  presented?
3.2 I see no objections. The agenda is adopted.  ELECTION DU PRÉSIDENT ET DES VICE-PRÉSIDENTS DE LA CONFÉRENCE GÉNÉRALE   ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  ELECCIÓN DEL PRESIDENTE Y LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  ВЫБОРЫ ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ И ЗАМЕСТИТЕЛЕЙ ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  א א א א  א 选举大会主席和副主席
4. The PRESIDENT:   It is now time to examine item 1.5 of our agenda concerning the elections of the President and Vice-Presidents  of the General Conference and of the Chairpersons, Vice-Chairperson and Rapporteurs of the Commission and  Committees. The document concerned is 31 C/NOM/1 and Addendum. Allow me then to call on the Chairperson of the  Nominations Committee to present to you the recommendation of the Committee concerning the post of President of the  General Conference at its 31st session. Mr Galán Sarmiento, you have the floor.
(5.1) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   The Nominations Committee held its first meeting this morning and did me the honour of electing me its  Chairperson. I should like to take this opportunity to express my deepest gratitude for this honour.
(5.2) Madam President, the Committee discussed the Executive Board’s recommendations regarding the offices of  President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference. The Committee has accordingly decided to recommend that the   General Conference at its 31st session elect by acclamation Mr Ahmad Jalali President of the 31st session of the General  Conference. Thank you, Madam President
6.1 The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed pleased to announce the election of H.E. Mr Ahmad Jalali, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran to UNESCO, as President of the General Conference at its 31st  session.  (Applause)
6.2 May I ask Mr Ahmad Jalali to come forward. Allow me, sir, to offer you my heartfelt congratulations upon  your election. I am certain that you will conduct the work of this Conference with wisdom, courage and the sense of  responsibility that you have accustomed us to. I shall be easy at heart with you as President. But before leaving the  podium and vacating my chair for the new President, I should like to give the floor to the Director-General, who wishes  to say a few words.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I congratulate the new President, I would like to take this  opportunity to thank you, Madam President, on behalf of all Member States of UNESCO, all staff members and myself,  for all the hard work and all the conscientious efforts you have deployed in the past two years. The way that you have  fulfilled the important responsibilities entrusted to you by the General Conference has been outstanding. I would also  like to express my personal thanks to you for having collaborated with me very closely in these years. In recognition of  your work, I take great pleasure in presenting you with UNESCO’s gold medal.  (The Director-General presents the gold medal of UNESCO to Ms Jaroslava Moserová)  (Applause)
7.2 Now let me turn to the new President of the General Conference. I would like to extend my wholehearted  congratulations to you on your election and I wish you every success in the fulfilment of your important duties. Please  be assured of my full support in the period ahead. Thank you very much.
8. The PRESIDENT:   Sir, as you are always giving the new President a gavel, I took the liberty of bringing you one from my own  country. I hope it will not be just for show.  (Ms Moserová withdraws from the rostrum to take her place with the delegation of the Czech Republic.   Mr Jalali, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Islamic Republic of Iran, assumes the presidency)
9.1 Le PRESIDENT :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et  Messieurs, je voudrais commencer par remercier le Président du Comité des candidatures et tous les Etats membres de  l’UNESCO pour la confiance qu’ils ont bien voulu m’accorder dans la situation internationale actuelle en m’élisant à la  présidence de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, réunie ici pour sa 31e session.   (The President continues in English)
9.2 I should like to welcome the heads of all the delegations participating here. I wish also to thank Ms Moserová  for her sincere endeavours in presiding over the General Conference at its 30th session. During her introductory  statement two years ago, this wonderfully warm personality mentioned a phrase which I shall always remember:   Whoever violates the human dignity of another destroys his own.   Whoever elevates the human dignity of others enhances his own.  I should also like to express my gratitude to you, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, for your serious and  productive performance during the past two years, and I should like to thank you, Mr Director-General, for your  indefatigable efforts to reform UNESCO’s Secretariat and make it more able to fulfil the expectations of the twenty-first  century. I assure you of my full support and sincere cooperation in your endeavours.
9.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first gathering of government representatives at a ministerial  level since the recent tragic events; it is for this reason that this gathering has a particular significance, and it may prove  to have profound consequences for international relations.
9.4 In the twentieth century, in spite of tremendous strides in science and technology, the global community  underwent shocking waves of war and violence. The United Nations declared the closing year of the twentieth century  the International Year for the Culture of Peace and, upon the proposal of my country, it designated the opening year of  the twenty-first century and the third millennium as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations.
9.5 The global consensus on this designation reflects a sense of urgency experienced by the effective and  collective consciousness and wisdom of humanity as it has left behind a violence-ridden century. It is unfortunate,  however, that further bloodshed and despondency opened the new century and the new millennium. In 2001, the United  Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, the machinery of terror and violence refused to cease operation for a  moment, and forces of ignorance, atrocity and arrogance comprising together the anti-culture of terror continued to prey  upon many an innocent people. The recent terrorist attack perpetrated against American citizens typifies a most violent  and atrocious instance of such crimes. On the basis of the unequivocal and firm principles we adhere to, we have all  condemned it.
9.6 Despite the existence of developed education systems all over the world, millions of people remain trapped in  the labyrinths of suspicion, mistrust and accumulated hatred, and still fail to appreciate how efficient the culture of  dialogue can prove and how delightful creative diversity can be. We have now witnessed what scale of destruction this  failure can bring about.
9.7 It is expected that UNESCO will grant top priority in its programme to the eradication of this failure and the  imminent dangers it poses. In order to accomplish this task, it is imperative to foster a sense of spiritual and ethical  unity among various nations, civilizations and societies. Such unity appears ever more vital today and no alternative to  it seems feasible. Should the pillars of this unity not be erected upon active dialogue with the aim of eradicating  misconceptions, an impending clash of civilizations will threaten the common heritage of human culture and  civilization.
9.8 In spite of the great advances in communications and information technologies, the situation of the world  reminds me of a tale cited by the great Persian poet, Rumi, which is also to be found in other forms, in Hindu and  Buddhist stories and tales and even in lands further east in various Asian cultures.
9.9 An elephant was being exhibited in a dark house. Many people were entering that darkness in order to know  what it was. As seeing it was impossible, each one tried to feel it in the dark with the palm of his hand. Someone’s hand  fell on its trunk: he said, “This creature is like a water-pipe.” Another touched its ear: to him it appeared to be like a fan.  When another felt its leg, he said, “I found the elephant’s shape to be like a pillar.” Similarly, whenever anyone heard a  description of the elephant, he understood it only in respect of the part that he had touched. They started to contradict  one another. Despite this total disagreement, they were not essentially enemies; rather, the real problem was that the  elephant in its totality greatly exceeded the capacity of the palm, the sole instrument they relied upon to perceive it.
9.10 What is the solution? As long as the darkness remains, we cannot replace the problem with harmony and  solidarity. Rumi suggests that, if there had been a candle in each one’s hand, the contradictions would have been  removed from their judgements.
9.11 Excellencies and dear friends, our situation today is as if we were entering such a dark house, in whose  darkness there is no hope for peace and harmony. Let us expect UNESCO to be that candle, if we wish for peace; as we  read in its Constitution, “peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of  mankind.”
9.12 How each religion and culture perceives the truth and the values which uphold its society is most precious for  that culture and has an absolute sense within its confines. But that does not mean that the other parts of the elephant are  unreal. In this age of global communication and interpenetration of religious and cultural ideas, it is essential to keep  sight of the total anatomy of the elephant while remaining attached to the part that we, as a particular culture, have  experienced.
9.13 Ladies and gentlemen, for some time on the international scene political and economic factors have been of  paramount importance, pushing cultural and religious elements aside as if they were of no significance. It seems that  now these neglected elements, which remain very real, are reasserting themselves with a vengeance. We can no longer  look at the world and try to solve its existing problems without taking into full consideration powerful religious and  cultural forces which play a central role in the lives of countless human beings.
9.14 Dear friends, during the same period that a promoter of colonialism in Europe wrote in his poetry: “East is East  and West is West, and never the twain shall meet”, another European poet, Goethe, in his East-Western Divan penned  the lines:   “To God belongs the Orient!   To God belongs the Occident!   Northern as well as southern lands   Rest in peace within his hands”.  The first two lines are an exact translation of the Quranic verse : “ אא  ”
9.15 For that great poet, East and West were not two distinct geographical regions, but rather two of the world’s  intellectual and cultural poles; in order to understand the one, it is necessary to understand the other. This is not simply  a matter of satisfying one’s curiosity about the other culture, but a necessity that our future path depends on. When we  speak of civilizations today, it is essential to remember that there is something of each civilization in the other,  especially when one speaks of East and West. For example, Islam is present in the West in large communities in both  Europe and America, while the West is present in the Islamic world in the form of modernism in its numerous  manifestations. The same could be said of China and the West, and to a large extent of Africa, and also of Latin  America and the Caribbean.
9.16 The image that the present relation between civilizations conjures up is more like the Yin-Yang symbol of the  Far East than anything else. According to this symbol Yin and Yang complement each other and together form a whole,  which is the circle. Moreover, there is an element of Yin in the Yang, and conversely an element of Yang in the Yin.  The two cannot survive without each other and together constitute the perfection of the circle. So it is in the case of  civilizations of the East and West today.
9.17 One aspect of this dialogue is the dialogue between tradition and modernity. While we may be obliged to  criticize tradition, we must not do so without first understanding it, and the same is true for modernity. The time is ripe  for human society to perceive the negative consequences of exclusivist approaches and to formulate ways of involving
24  all the elites and thinkers of various cultures in a process aimed at encouraging both public opinion and the masses to  learn to practice dialogue and dialogue for learning. Through these means we can also recognize that the “art of  listening” is a “sacred art”.
9.18 Conceptually, terrorism, violence and war target not only rationality but also intellectuality, and we know that  these two are not the same. The former refers mainly to a computational power, while the latter refers to the faculty of  penetrating appearances and getting at the substance. Fortunately, there are other international institutions which are  sensitive to the threat against rationality, but it seems to me that UNESCO is the only competent international and  intergovernmental institution which can and should think of facing the conceptual threat against intellectuality.
9.19 The question of justice has for centuries engaged the minds of great thinkers and reformers.  (The President continues in Arabic)
(9.20) (Translation from the Arabic):   As compassion and sympathy spread among human beings and grow in strength, they herald the imminent advent  of justice, which makes the journey of life more enjoyable. And if justice is really given concrete form and realized in the  context of this virtual ideal city, the main benefit which may be expected is the generation of greater compassion and  sympathy between people. We naturally believe that human beings have a propensity for tolerance and that they are keen to  love and be loved. It is precisely this distinguishing feature of human nature which gives us hope that justice may be  achieved and compassion may prevail among humankind.  (The President continues in English)
9.21 History shows us that war can only beget war. War decimates the culture of dialogue, and the most destructive  element of terrorism too is its aversion for the spirit of dialogue. The imperative of dialogue among cultures and  civilizations is now more palpably urgent than ever before. Having already endorsed this imperative in its Medium- Term Strategy, it now behoves UNESCO to address further dimensions of the efficacy of this concept in the paradigm  of international relations, and to pursue its mission more vigorously by formulating theoretical concepts and  frameworks to embed this principle in that paradigm. This is exactly the same recommendation as the ones we heard  today from President Chirac and President Obasanjo.
9.22 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. We have a very serious agenda before us and a very serious responsibility.  As an Iranian, in UNESCO I belong to the Asia Pacific group, but as President of the General Conference, I feel myself  an African.  (The President continues in Spanish)
(9.23)  (Translation from the Spanish):   I feel that I am from Latin America and the Caribbean.  (The President continues in Arabic)   א ٩,٢٤
(9.24) (Translation from the Arabic):   I feel myself to be an Arab.  (The President continues in Russian)
(9.25) (Translation from the Russian):   I feel myself an Eastern European.  (The President continues in English)
9.26 I feel myself a Western European.
9.27 I would like to end my statement with another poem by Rumi:  The unique light of the sun in the sky,  Becomes a hundred lights in the courtyards.  But when walls are removed  There will be no light but one.  As President of the General Conference, it is my honour to beg for justice and peace. Thank you.
9.28 Now, ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with item 1.5 of the agenda, the election of the Vice-Presidents  of the General Conference, for which the document is 31 C/NOM/1. I call upon Mr Galán Sarmiento, Chairperson of  the Nominations Committee, to present the list of the 36 candidates for the posts of Vice-President.
(10) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. Before continuing with item 1.5 of the agenda, allow me to congratulate you on your  election as President of the 31st session of the General Conference. I wish you every success in fully achieving the ideals of  our Organization. Mr President, the Nominations Committee recommended at its meeting this morning that the heads of  delegation of 36 Member States belonging to the following Electoral Groups be elected Vice-Presidents of the 31st session  of the General Conference: Group I: Canada, France, Germany, Netherlands, Sweden and Turkey; Group II: Croatia, Czech  Republic, Lithuania, Romania, Russian Federation and Slovakia; Group III: Argentina, Honduras, Mexico, Saint Lucia,  Suriname and Uruguay; Group IV: Australia, China, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Kazakhstan, Nepal and Viet  Nam; Group Va: Cameroon, Comoros, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Malawi and South Africa; and Group Vb: Iraq, Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya, Oman, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Mr President, I submit to you the  Nominations Committee’s recommendation regarding the 36 Vice-Presidents of the 31st session of the General Conference.
11. The PRESIDENT:   I thank the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee and now submit the list proposed by the Committee to  you for approval. I see no objections. I hereby declare the heads of the delegations of the Member States on the list that  was just read out elected Vice-Presidents of the General Conference.  CONSTITUTION DES COMITES ET COMMISSIONS  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS  CONSTITUCIÓN DE LOS COMITÉS Y LAS COMISIONES  СОЗДАНИЕ КОМИССИЙ И КОМИТЕТОВ  א   成立委员会和专门委员会
12. The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the election of the chairpersons of the commissions and  committees of the General Conference at its 31st session. I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee.
(13) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish) :   The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of Ms Alissandra Cummins, of  Barbados, Chairperson of Commission I. Thank you.
14.1. The PRESIDENT:   As I see no objections to the proposal by the Chairperson of Nominations Committee, I consider this proposal  adopted and declare that Ms Alissandra Cummins, of Barbados, has been elected Chairperson of Commission I.
14.2 May I now give the floor to the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee again for the presentation of the  Committee’s recommendation for the post of Chairperson of Commission II.
(15) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish) :   Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of Mr Michael  Omolewa, of Nigeria, Chairperson of Commission II. Thank you, Mr President.
16.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. If there are no objections, this proposal is adopted. I therefore declare Mr Omolewa of  Nigeria elected Chairperson of Commission II. Congratulations, sir.
16.2 We shall now proceed to consider Commission III. Once again I give the floor to the distinguished Chairperson  of the Nominations Committee to present the recommendation of the Committee.
(17) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, (Translation from the  Spanish)   Thank you, Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of  Mr Wlodzimierz Zagorski-Ostoja, of Poland, Chairperson of Commission III. Thank you, Mr President.
18.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. As I see no objections I consider this proposal adopted. Mr Zagorski- Ostoja of Poland is elected Chairperson of Commission II. Congratulations, sir.
18.2 I once again give the floor to the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee to present the Committee’s  recommendation concerning the Chairperson of Commission IV. The floor is yours, sir.
(19) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of  Mr Hector Villarroel, of the Philippines, Chairperson of Commission IV. Thank you, Mr President.
20.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Mr Chairperson. If there is no objection, and I see none, I declare that Mr Villarroel of the  Philippines has been elected Chairperson of Commission IV. Congratulations, sir.
20.2 We will now proceed to the election of the Chairperson of Commission V. Mr Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, the floor is yours, sir.
(21) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   The Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of Mr Alí Al-Mashat, of Iraq,  Chairperson of Commission V. Thank you, Mr President.
22.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. As there are no objections, I declare Mr Al-Mashat of Iraq elected Chairperson of  Commission V. Congratulations, sir.
22.2 We will now consider the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission. May I give you again the floor, Mr Chairperson.
(23) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   Mr President, the Nominations Committee decided unanimously to recommend the election of Mr David Stanton,  of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. Thank you,  Mr President.
24. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you, Mr Chairperson. As I see no objection, I consider this recommendation adopted and declare that  Mr David Stanton from the United Kingdom has been elected Chairperson of the Administrative Committee, for which  I congratulate him.  DEMANDE D'ADMISSION DE TOKELAOU EN QUALITÉ DE MEMBRE ASSOCIÉ DE L'UNESCO  REQUEST FOR ADMISSION OF TOKELAU AS AN ASSOCIATE MEMBER OF UNESCO  SOLICITUD DE ADMISIÓN DE TOKELAU COMO MIEMBRO ASOCIADO DE LA UNESCO  ПРОСЬБА О ПРИНЯТИИ ТОКЕЛАУ В КАЧЕСТВЕ ЧЛЕНА-СОТРУДНИКА ЮНЕСКО  א א   要求接纳托克劳群岛为教科文组织准会员
25.1 The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine item 9.2 of the agenda, “Request for admission of Tokelau as an  Associate Member of UNESCO”. The document concerned is document 31 C/50. This document includes the letter  from the New Zealand Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade requesting the admission of Tokelau, a territory whose  international relations fall under the responsibility of his country, as Associate Member of UNESCO. Please allow me  to remind you that, in compliance with Article II, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, territories or groups of territories  which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations may be admitted as Associate Members by the  General Conference by a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting, upon application made on behalf of such  territory or group of territories by the Member or other authority having responsibility for their international relations. I  now present the request for admission of Tokelau as an Associate Member of UNESCO. I see no objection. I therefore  declare that Tokelau has been admitted as a new Associate Member of the Organization. The decision is made.  Congratulations.
25.2 Ladies and gentlemen, this unanimous decision will doubtless contribute to the enhancement of our  Organization and will strengthen its universality. Since unfortunately the Tokelau delegation could not join us here  today, I have the pleasure to give the floor to Ms Jacquie Dean of the delegation of New Zealand, who will briefly  address the General Conference. Please, Madam.
26.1 Ms DEAN (New Zealand):   Thank you Mr President. My congratulations to you on your election. New Zealand has been asked to deliver  the following statement on behalf of Tokelau. They have asked that we convey their considerable regret that they cannot  be present to take the floor themselves today. Regrettably their delegation was called home en route to Paris due to a  serious shipping crisis facing Tokelau.
26.2 Their statement is as follows:   Tokelau is one of the most isolated territories in the Pacific, some 500 kilometres to the north of Samoa. Its  population of 1,507 reside in three atolls separated by 50 or 100 kilometres of high seas. The total land area is 12 square  kilometres and at no point does the land rise higher than five metres above sea level. Contact with the outside world is  by sea only, though since 1997 there has been modern telecommunication. For the purposes of the principle of self- determination enshrined in the United Nations Charter, Tokelau is a non-self-governing territory. Thus New Zealand is  responsible for assisting Tokelau towards self-government and meeting the needs of Tokelau at the national level.  Tokelau has, however, a distinctive Polynesian culture and its own separate political, legal, social and economic system.  To strengthen Tokelau’s capacity to manage its own affairs, the “Modern House” project is under way. Tokelau takes  pride in the fact that its self-government is being built on the recognition of home-grown solutions.
26.3 This is a fundamental principle of the Modern House of Tokelau and one that has been fully accepted and  supported by the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization and the Government of New Zealand. The path  to self-determination is being marked not so much by transfer of authority to Tokelau, as by recognition of existing  structures and their adaptation to the needs of today. That is to recognize that the villages and local Councils of elders  are the foundation of the nation. Capacity-building, especially in the delivery and management of modern services such  as education by the councils of elders, is a key to the successful achievement of the principles of the Modern House of  Tokelau. Participating to the fullest extent possible in regional and international institutions such as UNESCO is a  development goal. Tokelau has benefited from UNESCO activities in the past through the latter’s regional programmes  in the Pacific and looks forward to further fruitful regional cooperation.
26.4 Mr President, may I now take the opportunity to thank you and the delegates to this General Conference for  considering the question of Tokelau’s admission to UNESCO. In particular, please allow me, on behalf of the elders and  people of Tokelau, to acknowledge with deep appreciation the support and encouragement that we have received from  the Government of New Zealand. Thank you and God Bless.  (Applause)
27. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam, especially for teaching me the correct pronunciation of Tokelau. And once again welcome  to UNESCO. I saw the distinguished delegate of Australia asking for the floor. The floor is yours, sir.
28.1 Mr PEEK (Australia):   Thank you very much. I would like to make a very brief comment. First of all I would like to join my New  Zealand colleague in congratulating you very warmly on your election as President of the General Conference.
28.2 Australia takes great pleasure in welcoming yet another member of the Pacific community to UNESCO. There  are now 16 members of the Pacific community and with Tokelau an Associate Member as well. This makes the Pacific  sub-group one of the largest if not the largest in UNESCO. It is certainly one of the fastest growing. Despite this and the  urgent needs of the region, which UNESCO can fill, the subregion has only two seats in the Executive Board. Australia  looks forward to working with Tokelau in this house for many years to come. Thank you.
29. The PRESIDENT:   I thank the distinguished delegate from Australia.  ADMISSION D'OBSERVATEURS D'ORGANISATIONS NON GOUVERNEMENTALES  ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  ADMISIÓN DE OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES INTERNACIONALES NO GUBERNAMENTALES  ДОПУСК НАБЛЮДАТЕЛЕЙ ОТ МЕЖДУНАРОДНЫХ НЕПРАВИТЕЛЬСТВЕННЫХ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЙ  א   接纳非政府国际组织观察员列席会议
30. The PRESIDENT:   Now we shall proceed to consider item I.7, “Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers  from non-governmental organizations other than those maintaining formal relations with UNESCO, and  recommendations of the Executive Board thereon”. You have at your disposal document 31 C/10. In conformity with  Rule 7 and 85.1(d) of the Rules of Procedure, I now invite the Chairperson of the Executive Board to present the  Board’s recommendation on this matter. Madam Chairperson, you have the floor.
31.1 Mme MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Présidente du Conseil exécutif :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Sous-Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués,  Mesdames, Messieurs, il va sans dire que depuis plus d'une dizaine d'années, les ONG sont de plus en plus  explicitement reconnues au sein des organisations du système des Nations Unies. Nous sommes conscients que leur rôle  et leur contribution précieuse à la coopération internationale pour le développement, surtout dans les pays les moins  favorisés, ne sont plus à prouver.
31.2 Le Conseil exécutif, se référant à l'article 7 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, a examiné à sa
162e session les demandes d'organisations non gouvernementales autres que celles entretenant des relations formelles  avec l'UNESCO, de fondations et autres institutions similaires entretenant des relations officielles, ainsi que celles  d'autres organisations internationales désireuses de se faire représenter par des observateurs à la 31e session de la  Conférence générale.
31.3 Toutes ces organisations entretiennent des relations avec l'UNESCO en vertu des Directives existantes. Elles  souhaiteraient participer, comme il est dit dans le document 31 C/10, à l'examen des points de l'ordre du jour de la  Conférence générale qui relèvent de leur compétence.
31.4 Monsieur le Président, au nom du Conseil exécutif, je recommande que les organisations dont le nom figure  dans le document 31 C/10 soient admises en qualité d'observateur à la trente et unième session de la Conférence  générale. Je vous remercie.
32. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson. Are there any comments in the room on this draft resolution? I see  none. Then I declare that the draft resolution is adopted.  DEMANDE D'ADMISSION DE LA PALESTINE A L'UNESCO  REQUEST FOR THE ADMISSION OF PALESTINE TO UNESCO  SOLICITUD DE ADMISIÓN DE PALESTINA EN LA UNESCO  ПРОСЬБА О ПРИНЯТИИ ПАЛЕСТИНЫ В ЮНЕСКО  אא   要求接纳巴勒斯坦加入教科文组织
33. The PRESIDENT:    Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to begin our examination of item 9.1 of the agenda, “Request for the  admission of Palestine to UNESCO”. The documents for your consideration are 31 C/26 and Add. May I now invite the  Chairperson of the Executive Board again to present the Board’s recommendations on this subject. Madam, the floor is  yours.
34.1 Mme MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Présidente du Conseil exécutif :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Sous-Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués,  Mesdames, Messieurs. Le Conseil exécutif a examiné à sa 162e session la demande d’admission de la Palestine à  l’UNESCO, en rappelant ses décisions précédentes ainsi que les résolutions pertinentes de la Conférence générale.
34.2 Le Conseil a décidé d’inscrire ce point à l’ordre du jour de sa 167e session. Il a également recommandé à la  Conférence générale d’adopter un projet de résolution exprimant, entre autres, son espoir de pouvoir examiner ce point  à sa trente deuxième session, à la lumière des progrès accomplis dans le processus de paix. Le texte de ce projet de  résolution est contenu dans le document 31 C/26.
34.3 Monsieur le Président, en vous présentant ce projet de résolution, je me permets d’exprimer l’espoir que notre  objectif ultime, qui est la paix, devienne dans le proche avenir, une réalité pour tous. Je vous remercie.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:    Thank you, Madam Chairperson. Are there any comments in the room about this draft resolution? I see none.  The draft resolution is adopted. Congratulations. Now I see that we have finished these items.
35.2 Before we examine the conclusions of the Youth Forum, may I announce that I have been informed that His  Excellency Mohammad Khatami, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, has sent a message to the General  Conference that will be read by the Iranian Minister of Science, who will be here in a few days to address the  Conference.
30  CONCLUSIONS DU FORUM DES JEUNES  CONCLUSIONS OF THE YOUTH FORUM  CONCLUSIONES DEL FORO DE LA JUVENTUD  РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ РАБОТЫ ФОРУМА МОЛОДЕЖИ  א  א 青年论坛的结论
36. The PRESIDENT:   I now have the pleasure to give the floor to Ms Fama Diao from Senegal, representative of the Youth Forum,  who will read out the principal conclusions of the Forum. For your information, as many of you are certainly already  aware, the Youth Forum which preceded the General Conference was organized from 12 to 14 October. During these  three days, 131 young people from 83 different countries had the opportunity to exchange their views, debate together  and identify common preoccupations and problems. Another purpose of the Youth Forum was to discuss and prepare  concrete proposals reflecting the views of young people on UNESCO’s two cross-cutting themes, namely the  eradication of poverty, especially extreme poverty, and the contribution of information and communication technologies  to the development of education, science and culture and the construction of a knowledge society. Madam, I give you  the floor.
37.1 Mme DIAO (Sénégal), Représentante du Forum des jeunes :   Chers amis jeunes, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, le Forum des jeunes de la 31e session de la  conférence générale de l’UNESCO est un succès. Dans une ambiance détendue, il nous a offert l’occasion de découvrir  différentes cultures et différents modes de pensée, de travailler ensemble et de débattre des multiples problèmes qui  agitent le monde. Chacun d’entre nous a pu partager son expérience avec les autres participants. L’amitié, l’esprit  d’équipe, la capacité de parler en public et de défendre ses idées ont prévalu pendant toute la durée du Forum. Celui-ci  est d’une importance capitale pour nous dans la mesure où il nous permet de montrer aux adultes que nous ne pensons  pas uniquement à faire la fête, mais que nous sommes responsables et nous agissons, à notre façon, afin de rendre le  monde plus gai et plus conforme à nos ambitions, fort nombreuses. Nous sommes jeunes, certes, et si ce sont nos idées  qui changeront le monde, c’est vous qui avez les moyens de les concrétiser.
37.2 L’Unité de coordination « jeunesse » a fait on ne peut mieux pour que cette deuxième rencontre soit parfaite.  Tout en rappelant que l’une des tâches fondamentales de l’UNESCO est de fonctionner comme un lieu de rencontre et  de débat, nous reconnaissons l’importance du Forum des jeunes, qui favorise la formulation d’idées et de propositions  concrètes. Les deux thèmes transversaux qui doivent être débattus durant la présente session de la Conférence générale  ont été traités avec tout le sérieux requis.
37.3 Le Forum des jeunes appelle de ses vœux l’élimination de la pauvreté tout en étant conscient qu’il est plus  réaliste à court et à moyen terme de viser seulement à l’atténuer. La pauvreté est une violation des droits de l’homme  dans des domaines vitaux tels que l’alimentation, la santé et le logement. Nous avons constaté aussi que les dettes  contractées par les anciens pèsent sur les jeunes générations et sont un frein à la lutte contre la pauvreté. Le Forum des  jeunes de la 31e session de la Conférence générale souhaite la mise sur pied de programmes de sensibilisation à la  pauvreté au sein des systèmes éducatifs, en particulier dans l’enseignement supérieur. Nous demandons instamment aux  institutions du système des Nations Unies d’améliorer l’information des jeunes pour leur permettre de participer  réellement à la conception, à la mise en oeuvre et à l’évaluation des politiques et des programmes des Nations Unies.  Nous constatons l’importance de l’éducation par les pairs, la formation des jeunes par les jeunes offrant des possibilités  sous-estimées. L’éducation doit aider les jeunes à créer des emplois et à générer des revenus ; encore faut-il améliorer la  formation des enseignants. Nous nous félicitons des initiatives locales de jeunes qui contribuent directement à faire  reculer la pauvreté, tout en demandant l’allégement du lourd fardeau que représente la dette. Nous exigeons la réduction  des dépenses militaires dans tous les pays du monde afin que les fonds ainsi devenus disponibles soient consacrés à  l’éducation partout dans le monde.
37.4 Soucieux de jouer pleinement son rôle dans le processus d’élimination de la pauvreté, le Forum des jeunes  demande à l’UNESCO de soutenir des projets concrets : projets de micro-crédit permettant aux jeunes de se lancer dans  une activité indépendante, échange de projets réussis entre pays en développement, dans le cadre de la coopération Sud- Sud, et création d’un bureau de jeunes formateurs et d’experts qui travailleraient bénévolement pour l’UNESCO .
37.5 Nous reconnaissons l’existence de différents types de technologies de l’information et de la communication. Il  est vital d’utiliser la technologie la plus appropriée et de ne pas tout miser sur l’Internet. Les médias traditionnels  comme la radio et la télévision restent des outils importants pour la diffusion de l’information. L’UNESCO doit veiller  à ce que les nouvelles technologies n’excèdent pas la capacité des populations locales de les utiliser ou d’assurer leur  maintenance. Nous félicitons l’UNESCO pour les vidéoconférences organisées durant le Forum mondial de la jeunesse
31  de Dakar. Le Forum des jeunes appelle à un partenariat avec les universités du monde en vue de mettre sur pied un  centre de ressources où l’on pourrait se procurer des livres gratuitement.
37.6 Nos attentes sont grandes concernant la mise en oeuvre des résolutions de ce Forum et le soutien que vous  pourrez y apporter : nous espérons que vous le comprenez. Les miracles des technologies de l’information et de la  communication nous permettront de rester en contact et de progresser ensemble. Afin d’atteindre nos objectifs, nous  comptons sur le soutien de l’Organisation, de nos commissions nationales et de nos gouvernements. Un organe  permanent, composé de jeunes, dirigé par des jeunes, basé au Siège de l’UNESCO, pourrait accompagner et coordonner  le travail que nous accomplirons dans nos pays respectifs. Lors du prochain Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO, nous  espérons pouvoir dire que nos efforts d’aujourd’hui auront contribué de manière fructueuse et tangible à l’action de  l’UNESCO en faveur d’un monde meilleur. Je vous remercie.
38. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madame Diao from Senegal, for this excellent conclusion. As we always say in  UNESCO documents, we need more creativity for UNESCO in the twenty-first century and we are obviously looking  for young people to help us with their creativity. There is a very close relationship between creativity, intellectuality,  science and politics. And young people can offer this creativity. Thank you very much again. I hereby propose that the  General Conference take note of the principal conclusions of the Youth Forum. I see no objection. It is so decided.  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITÉ DE CREDENCIALES  ПЕРВЫЙ ДОКЛАД КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ  א א  א 全权证书委员会第一次报告
39. The PRESIDENT:   Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine, under item 1.2, the first report by the Credentials Committee.  Allow me first of all to congratulate Mr. Mamajonov of Uzbekistan on his election as Chairperson of the Committee.  Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
40.1 M. MAMAJONOV (Ouzbékistan), Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  représentant du Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames, Messieurs et honorables délégués des Etats membres,  Excellences, à sa première séance plénière, tenue le 15 octobre 2001, la Conférence générale de l'Organisation des  Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture a, conformément aux articles 26 et 32 de son Règlement  intérieur, constitué pour sa 31e session un Comité de vérification des pouvoirs composé des Etats membres suivants :  Bélarus, Cambodge, Côte d'Ivoire, Islande, Grèce, Népal, Nicaragua, Ouzbékistan et Yémen. Le Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs a tenu sa première séance à 11 heures ce même jour et m'a fait l'honneur de m'élire à sa présidence. A ma  demande, le Conseiller juridique a informé le Comité des critères à appliquer pour décider de la validité des pouvoirs  présentés aux termes de l'article 23 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Cet article dispose que les  pouvoirs des délégués et des suppléants émanent soit du chef de l'Etat ou du gouvernement, soit du ministre des affaires  étrangères ou d'un autre ministre autorisé par le ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer des pleins pouvoirs. Le  Conseiller juridique a également expliqué la signification de l'expression "pouvoirs provisoires" utilisée par le  Secrétariat, et ce qu'elle impliquait.
40.2 Le Secrétariat a ensuite informé le Comité de l'état des pouvoirs qu'il avait reçus jusqu'alors. Le Comité a  conclu que les pouvoirs des Etats membres suivants avaient été émis en conformité avec l'article 23 du Règlement  intérieur de la Conférence générale, c'est-à-dire qu'ils émanaient soit du chef de l'Etat ou du gouvernement, soit du  ministre des affaires étrangères ou d'un autre ministre autorisé par le ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer des  pleins pouvoirs. Il a en conséquence considéré que les délégations des Etats membres dont les noms suivent étaient  dûment accréditées : Afrique du Sud, Albanie, Allemagne, Andorre, Arabie saoudite, Arménie, Australie, Autriche,  Azerbaïdjan, Bahamas, Bahreïn, Belize, Bénin, Bhoutan, Botswana, Bulgarie, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodge,  Canada, Chine, Chypre, Colombie, Costa Rica, Croatie, Cuba, Danemark, Dominique, El Salvador, Erythrée, Espagne,  Ethiopie, ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, Fédération de Russie, Fidji, Finlande, France, Gabon, Gambie,  Géorgie, Ghana, Guinée équatoriale, Guyana, Hongrie, Iraq, Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne,  Jamaïque, Jordanie, Kenya, Kiribati, Koweït, Lesotho, Lettonie, Liban, Lituanie, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,  Maldives, Mali, Maroc, Maurice, Mauritanie, Monaco, Mongolie, Myanmar, Namibie, Nauru, Népal, Nicaragua, Niger,  Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Oman, Palaos, Panama, Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, Pays-Bas, Pologne, Portugal, Qatar,  République arabe syrienne, République centrafricaine, République de Corée, République démocratique populaire lao,
32  République dominicaine, République populaire démocratique de Corée, République tchèque, République-Unie de  Tanzanie, Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, Rwanda, Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis, Saint-Vincent-et-les  Grenadines, Samoa, Saint-Marin, Sénégal, Seychelles, Slovaquie, Soudan, Sri Lanka, Suède, Suriname, Swaziland,  Togo, Turkménistan, Turquie, Tuvalu, Ukraine, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yémen, Zambie, Zimbabwe. Le comité  recommande que les délégations des Etats membres susmentionnés soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la
31e session de la Conférence générale.
40.3 Les délégations des Etats membres dont les noms suivent ont présenté des pouvoirs sous forme de notes, lettres  ou autres documents émanant d'un ministre autre que le ministre des affaires étrangères et non autorisé à cet effet par ce  dernier, ou du chef d'une mission diplomatique, d'un délégué permanent auprès de l'UNESCO ou d'un haut  fonctionnaire du gouvernement : Algérie, Angola, Argentine, Bangladesh, Barbade, Bélarus, Belgique, Bolivie, Bosnie- Herzégovine, Brésil, Cameroun, Cap-Vert, Chili, Comores, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypte, Emirats Arabes  Unis, Equateur, Estonie, Grèce, Grenade, Guatemala, Guinée, Guinée-Bissau, Haïti, Honduras, Inde, Indonésie, Iran  (République islamique d'), Japon, Kazakhstan, Kirghizistan, Libéria, Malaisie, Mexique, Mozambique, Nigéria,  Ouganda, Ouzbékistan, Pakistan, Paraguay, Pérou, Philippines, République de Moldova, République démocratique du  Congo, Roumanie, Sainte-Lucie, Sao Tomé-et-Principe, Sierra Leone, Slovénie, Somalie, Suisse, Tchad, Thaïlande,  Tonga, Tunisie, Venezuela, Yougoslavie. Des pouvoirs provisoires ont également été présentés par les délégations des  Antilles néerlandaises et des Iles Vierges britanniques, Membres associés. Le Comité propose que ces notes, lettres et  autres documents soient acceptés à titre de pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des Etats membres et des membres  associés, sous réserve qu'elles présentent ultérieurement des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme, et que, dans l'intervalle,  ces délégations soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la 31e session de la Conférence générale.
40.4 Le Comité a en outre reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme établis au nom de la délégation du Saint-Siège,  ainsi que des pouvoirs provisoires établis au nom des délégations d'observateurs des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et de la  Palestine. Le Comité propose que ces pouvoirs soient également acceptés. Je vous remercie.
41. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I should like to thank the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee for his very  well prepared report and I should also like to congratulate the Committee for the very efficient manner in which it  carried out its job. I see that there are distinguished representatives of Member States who wish to make comments.  Slovenia, please, Madam.
42. Ms KLEMEN-KREK (Slovenia):   May I also offer congratulations on our behalf for your election. I also thank the Credentials Committee for its  report. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the full powers to the delegation of the Republic of  Slovenia were signed by our Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was cited among other Ministers.
43. The PRESIDENT:   We shall take note of that. I now give the floor to the distinguished delegate of the Democratic Republic of the  Congo.
44. M. KYOTA (République démocratique du Congo) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Permettez-moi avant tout de vous féliciter pour votre élection. Je serai bref :  comme l'oratrice qui m'a précédé, je voudrais dire que ma délégation a présenté des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme  signés par le Ministre des affaires étrangères. Merci.
45.1 The PRESIDENT:   I thank the distinguished delegate of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We take note of that.
45.2 The General Conference accordingly takes note of the first report of the Credentials Committee, including  reservations made by two distinguished delegates.
45.3 Finally, before I close this afternoon’s meeting, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General  Conference for announcements.
46.1 Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Voici rapidement quelques informations au sujet de la journée de demain.  Demain matin, en séance plénière commencera le débat de politique générale. Par ailleurs, le Bureau de la Conférence  générale tiendra sa première réunion demain matin à 9 heures dans la salle X. Le Bureau est composé comme vous le  savez des vice-présidents qui ont été élus aujourd'hui, ainsi que des présidents des Commissions et Comités.
46.2 Demain, également, le Comité juridique tiendra à 10 heures sa première réunion. Je rappelle que le Comité  juridique est composé de vingt et un Etats membres qui ont été élus par la Conférence générale à sa 30e session et qui
33  sont les suivants : Allemagne, Argentine, Belgique, Chili, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypte, Fédération de Russie, France, Ghana,  Guatemala, Hongrie, République islamique d'Iran, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne, Mauritanie, République arabe syrienne,  République-Unie de Tanzanie, Suisse, Thaïlande, Turquie, Uruguay, Venezuela. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
47. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you, Mr Secretary. We have now reached the end of this second plenary meeting. We shall meet again  tomorrow at 10 o’clock in the morning. I wish you a pleasant evening. The meeting stands adjourned.       La séance est levée à 16 h.40   The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 16.40   Заседание закрывается в 16.40  א  א٤,٤٠א    会议于 16 时 40 分结束