147    Sixième séance plénière
17 octobre 2001 à 15 h.5  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  Sixth plenary meeting
17 October 2001 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Sexta sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As there is no quorum, I shall adjourn the meeting for five minutes.  (The meeting is adjourned for five minutes)
1.2 I hereby declare open our sixth plenary meeting, during which we will continue with our general policy debate.  I ask our first speaker, His Excellency Mr Walter Sandriman, the distinguished Minister of Education and Community  Development of Suriname, to take the floor.
2.1 Mr SANDRIMAN (Suriname):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr President, may I congratulate you on behalf of the  Government of Suriname on your election to the chair of the General Conference of UNESCO at this 31st session. May  you be constantly given the strength and especially the wisdom needed to carry out this rewarding and responsible task.  Allow me, Mr President, to take this opportunity to convey to the Director-General and his staff our great appreciation  for the many promising reforms announced by them in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. The manner in which  they have been able to give shape and content to current world issues, from the perspective of UNESCO’s specific  mandate and mission, deserves our full support.
2.2 Mr President, as the Minister responsible for education and other sectors lying within UNESCO’s competence,  I welcome the strategies chosen and set out by the Director-General in order to contribute effectively to the  humanization of globalization. Although my country, a Republic still young and underdeveloped with less than half a  million inhabitants and a rather fragile economy, is regularly classified as the seventieth richest country in the world by  the World Bank, we too experience daily in practically all sectors the detrimental impact of globalization which goes  hand in hand with an increasingly competitive international environment. My Government therefore wishes to  cooperate even more intensively during the next medium-term period with UNESCO Headquarters and particularly  with the UNESCO offices in the region – in association, also, with the other CARICOM Member States and our Latin  American friends – on the realization of the relevant and common UNESCO objectives resulting from the Medium- Term Strategy.
2.3 Mr President, because of its extreme importance, one of these collective objectives has even been enshrined in  United Nations resolutions, in which UNESCO has been appointed the lead agency for the International Decade for a  Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World. After the most reprehensible terrorist attacks in the  United States of America on 11 September last, it is now more than ever essential that each and every Member State  should strive, in the most efficient and effective manner, under the inspiring leadership of UNESCO, to give concrete  effect to these resolutions. In their efforts, particular attention should be given to: the creation of a culture of peace; the  fostering of mutual understanding, tolerance and solidarity; respect for all human rights, and the promotion of  international peace and security. My Government will offer its full support to the implementation of these United  Nations resolutions and the actions resulting from them. We call upon all Member States to undertake specific actions  in connection with our Organization. Without seeking to disregard the immense human grief and material damage  caused by the 11 September tragedy, I am convinced that everyone at this Conference is aware that we must continue to  fight for a more peaceful and better balanced world.
2.4 Mr President, allow me now to go more deeply into our intentions with regard to education and science in  relation to the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. The Ministry of Education and Community Development in  Suriname is in the process of formulating with stakeholders a National Educational Plan. For the further preparation and  implementation of this Plan we need assistance, in the light of the Education for All commitments and the six Dakar  goals, with a particular focus on: the educational needs of neglected groups; the qualitative improvement of the entire  education system, including the development of modern curricula that are better suited to present-day needs. To  improve our capacity for data collection, use and analysis, we would welcome the assistance of UNESCO’s Institute for  Statistics. As regards issues relating to women, gender and youth mainstreaming, we wish to participate in the region- specific programmes and activities that will focus on networking, exchange of information, sharing of knowledge,  building alliances across borders and cultures and especially in activities to empower young people aged between
15 and 25 so as to ensure and to enhance their participation as equal and valuable partners, with special attention to the
149  design and shaping of the new knowledge society. Concerning computer literacy as a basic skill needed for performing  efficiently in today’s knowledge-based global society, we need UNESCO’s knowledge to help define the best use of  information and communication technologies (ICTs) with regard to our education policy in general, and specifically to  improve the quality of teaching and learning, the internal and external efficiencies and to lower the cost of education  through, for example, distance education in relation to the new technologies. With reference to science, we fully agree  with the conclusions of the World Conference on Science held in Budapest, that the contribution made by science  cannot be based solely upon issues of research and knowledge but must be justified also by its relevance and  effectiveness in addressing the needs and aspiration of the local society, especially when it relates to the least or less  developed Member States. With this in mind, the Ministry of Education of Suriname, responsible for science, would  benefit from UNESCO’s support to improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research programmes in both the  social and natural sciences, in particular at university level.
2.5 Mr President, with respect to culture, communication and information, I would like to draw your attention to  the following considerations. As regards the protection of the cultural heritage as a key component of identity and a key  factor for both economic growth and social cohesion my Government has submitted to UNESCO a project concerning  the historic inner city of Paramaribo, the capital of Suriname, to be included in the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  List. The International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) visited our country and, in accordance with the  international standards for heritage conservation, advised us regarding the request submitted for the historical site of  Paramaribo to be included in the List. As a country in an under-represented region with regard to World Heritage sites,  and with reference to the UNESCO flagship programme, we will therefore look forward to the inclusion by UNESCO  of the historic inner city of Paramaribo on the World Heritage List. In the year 2003, my country will host the most  colourful and important subregional festival of arts, known as CARIFESTA. This unique multicultural event will  strengthen and improve the dialogue and harmonious interaction among most civilizations and cultures in our  subregion. We therefore urge UNESCO to fully encourage and support this festivity.
2.6 Mr President, as regards communication and information, ICTs open up new horizons for progress and the  exchange of knowledge, education and training, and for the promotion of creativity and intercultural dialogue. But as  the Director-General stated in the Medium-Term Strategy, the growing digital divide is actually leading to greater  inequalities in development. This is giving rise to paradoxical situations where those who have the greatest need of  them – such as disadvantaged groups, rural communities, illiterate populations, or even entire countries – do not have  access to the tools which would enable them to become fully-fledged members of the knowledge society. In my  country, we are preparing small-scale projects to enhance learning opportunities for teachers and others in the interior,  who do not have access to the formal education system, through access to ICT. As a Member State and a developing  country, we would welcome assistance by the knowledge-based clearing-house that UNESCO will set up.
2.7 In conclusion, Mr President, we wish to express our strong support for the dedicated work and the reforms  undertaken by the Director-General and his staff, and we trust that this 31st session of the General Conference will yield  optimal results. Thank you, Mr President.
3. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency the Honourable Amod Prasad  Upadhyay, distinguished Minister of Education and Sports of Nepal. Excellency, the floor is yours.
4.1 Mr UPADHYAY (Nepal):   Honourable President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I feel  greatly honoured and privileged to participate in the 31st  session of the General Conference of UNESCO representing  Nepal, a Himalayan country and young democracy, to speak out my feelings in this forum of elites. It is also a matter of  immense pleasure and pride for Nepal to have been elected as one of the Vice-Presidents of this august Conference. I  extend my grateful thanks and deep appreciation to all the distinguished delegates for their invaluable support and the  confidence they have bestowed upon us.
4.2 Please allow me to join previous speakers in congratulating the honourable President on his election to preside  over this highly esteemed General Conference. I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for the excellent management of the Conference. My delegation would like to take this  opportunity to express our deep appreciation and support to the Director-General for his recent initiatives to promote  dialogue with civil society to encourage greater involvement on its part in our total educational endeavours to  accomplish the mission of Education for All by 2015 under the Dakar Framework for Action.
4.3 We firmly believe that the Director-General’s recent visit to Nepal in July this year has been instrumental in  giving fresh impetus to our mutual collaboration and cooperation within the fields of competence of UNESCO. His visit  to Lumbini, the birthplace of Lord Buddha, the light of Asia, has not only inspired us to consolidate and enhance our  ongoing efforts to conserve this site of historical importance but has also helped to highlight the ideals of peace,  compassion and enlightenment that the Buddha symbolizes.
4.4 Mr President, the emerging events in the world scene today have clearly revealed the paramount role of the  United Nations organizations in ensuring collective peace, prosperity, democracy, coexistence and harmony all over the  world, irrespective of creed, colour and nationality. Nepal believes that democracy is the only road to steady economic  and social development in the present-day world. Thus, living up to the world mark today requires people to be aware  and capable of catching up with the current advance in science and technology, in a globalized economy with  democratized norms of social interaction.
4.5 Armed with this understanding, we consider that the proposed plans and programmes for the next biennium are  in good tune with the spirit and aspirations of UNESCO. The programmes proposed in the fields of education, culture,  science, etc. are the ones that UNESCO aspires to promote, preserve and multiply. Nepal values the role of UNESCO in  these fields.
4.6 Mr President, access is still a problem at all levels of education in Nepal. Access relates not only to the  provision of schools but also to social and economic factors. For this reason many children and youths are still out of  school. The gender gap in educational and socio-economic participation is still significantly wide. In the current  circumstances, special provision for people with disabilities is still in need of attention. In order to meet these  challenges, Nepal needs to take serious action on its own but also to receive continued support from its development  partners.
4.7 One of the major tasks ahead for Nepal is to meet the EFA goals listed in the Declaration of the World  Education Forum in Dakar. Similarly, Nepal needs to improve the quality of secondary education to make it relevant to  the daily lives of the people and prepare children for the world of work. Higher education needs to be related to the job  market. There is also a need to bring the quality of higher education up to that of other higher education institutions in  different parts of the world. To this end, Nepal is currently initiating some specific reform measures, including targeted  programmes for girls, women and disadvantaged children, to help them join the mainstream of basic and primary  education in keeping with the spirit of Education for All. An action plan is being formulated in order to attain the  Education for All objectives by 2015. Legal provisions are being made to involve civil society in the overall  management of school education.
4.8 Mr President, Nepal still possesses a rich heritage of culture, traditions and monuments. However, there are  many ongoing challenges to maintain its cultural heritage. With modern developments, people are now increasingly  pulled away from the earlier way of life. Those who still pursue previous ways of life are left behind as disadvantaged,  both economically and socially. Consequently, the culture and traditions are being increasingly threatened. With the  loss of interest and faith in culture and tradition, the entities of our cultural heritage are being left unattended. Nepal has  benefited from the continued support of UNESCO in the area of cultural preservation and the promotion and  safeguarding of its World Heritage sites.
4.9 The development of science and technology is one of the wonders of the twentieth century. It has the potential  of bringing forth greater wonders in the days to come. Today, the mastery of science and technology is the key to  material prosperity and political and social power. In the context of Nepal, the “ayurveda” approach to medicine, which  is different from the worldwide allopathic system, could be a potential alternative to address the health needs of the  people. Agriculture, floriculture and horticulture have different dimensions in Nepal but their possibilities have not yet  been realized for several reasons. Therefore, the challenge for Nepal is how to develop its own natural potential.
4.10 Mr President, we see UNESCO as providing a forum for sharing world experiences, ideas and know-how. It is  also working as a pool of human resources, of technical, scientific and cultural knowledge, of information and expertise.  All these are important for Nepal to draw on for its development. Nepal hopes that UNESCO will pay special attention  to the needs of member countries like Nepal. Nepal looks forward to help from UNESCO to develop its human  resources, to expand its technical and professional capacities and to expand its resource base. We are hopeful that  renewed efforts by UNESCO to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of its operations will greatly benefit countries  like Nepal.
4.11 Mr President, my delegation realizes that there is a growing need to introduce value-based education from the  basic and primary level to higher education, especially in the present context when the whole world is horrified by  terrorism. I want to assure you, Mr President, that my country fully supports the global community in its fight against  terrorism in order to eradicate it from the face of the earth. Naturally, UNESCO has to play a pivotal role in this regard  by expanding and ensuring peace through Education for All. The emergence of a common culture that respects diversity  and the traditions of each country has been the need of the hour in the emerging global concept of common concern.  United Nations organizations like UNESCO could be a source of inspiration for the fulfilment of these new missions.  Thank you.
5. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I would now like to call upon the distinguished Minister of State at the  Federal Foreign Office of Germany and Member of Parliament, His Excellency Mr Ludger Volmer. Excellency, you  have the floor.
6.1 Mr VOLMER (Germany):   Mr President, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer you, Mr President Jalali, my sincere  congratulations on your election, and wish you every success in exercising the responsibilities of your high office. I  would like to thank the outgoing President for her excellent work and wish her all the best for the future.
6.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot speak here without mentioning the horrendous events of 11 September. The  brutal attacks have clearly shown all civilizations where intolerance, exclusion and a lack of orientation can lead. Terror  has shown humanity its ugly face. I would like to thank you, Mr Director-General, for your sensitive and forward- looking words. I agree with you that we in UNESCO have to fight terrorism by changing the way people think.  Uprooting terrorism is the primary task of our Organization. Terrorism is confined neither to a particular religion, nor to  a particular region or even a particular culture. Wherever oppression exists or is at least believed to exist, there breed  the fanaticism and hatred which give rise to violence. Plans for UNESCO to analyse and fight the intellectual and  spiritual roots of hatred around the world therefore have Germany’s full support. We will need to focus UNESCO’s  core programmes on these new challenges and implement results without delay.
6.3 What would be better suited to educate and inform people of the diversity of cultures than dialogue? UNESCO  is the lead agency within the United Nations system for the implementation of the International Year of Dialogue  among Civilizations, 2001. This initiative, supported by former Federal President Herzog and by Germany’s current  President Rau, has given rise to concrete projects in Germany, particularly in the educational field, which promote  dialogue with our immediate neighbours as well as tolerance between East and West, across borders and within our own  country.
6.4 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 July 2001 Germany celebrated fifty years as a Member State of  UNESCO. We took this opportunity to look back with gratitude on UNESCO’s contribution towards reconciliation and  the development of cooperation with our neighbours in a spirit of partnership - and to renew our commitment to the  objectives and tasks of UNESCO. UNESCO plays an outstanding role within the United Nations framework. It is part  of the process of implementing the United Nations Millennium Declaration. We need a strong UNESCO as a forum for  a global intellectual exchange on the current affairs of our time.
6.5 Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the reforms you introduced are helping to create this strong UNESCO  which is equal to the new challenges in the fields of culture, science, education and research. We welcome your  endeavours to comprehensively reorganize UNESCO and assure you that you can count on our support. Equally  important is the issue of decentralization. We back your aim of developing regional and sub-regional strategies on the  basis of the new programme.
6.6 In order to be strong, UNESCO must actively seek cooperation with global organizations whose mandates  coincide with UNESCO’s core areas, with regional organizations - and may I say that I welcome the decisions taken by  the Council of Europe and the European Union to cooperate with UNESCO - as well as with States and civil society.  The more cooperation we have, the greater the synergy and the greater our strength. I likewise call upon all states to  participate actively in UNESCO’s work.
6.7 Germany welcomes the fact that UNESCO is now focusing on tasks in its core mandate. The first joint steps by  the Secretariat and the Member States to introduce and use results-based budgeting are a move in the right direction and  deserve our full support. For an efficient UNESCO we need reforms which tackle the remaining weakness and a steady  budget. Germany continues to favour zero nominal growth. I think that the Director-General has taken the first steps to  achieve this goal.
6.8 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in June of this year the foreign ministers of Germany and France proposed  to the United Nations an internationally binding legal instrument to ban the reproductive cloning of human beings.  UNESCO’s Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights of 11 November 1997 is revolutionary in this field,  and forms the basis for the Franco-German initiative. As a response to unsettling announcements made by irresponsible  researchers who want to clone humans, it is designed to help protect human dignity, to ban the reproductive cloning of  human beings internationally and to establish a globally valid ethical and legal barrier. A corresponding resolution  which explicitly emphasizes UNESCO’s significant role, will be tabled in the Sixth Committee at this year’s session of  the General Assembly of the United Nations. There will be ample opportunity for UNESCO’s experience and expertise  in this field to be drawn upon in the new special committee to be established pursuant to the draft resolution in order to  draw up the convention on the prohibition of cloning. I would be glad if UNESCO were to make good use of this  opportunity.
6.9 We must additionally keep the ethical issues relating to biotechnology on the international agenda and deal  with them in a targeted manner as quickly as possible. No other international organization has as much specialist  knowledge in this field as UNESCO. Germany is ready to continue working actively in the relevant committees.
6.10 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s science for development programme, organized by its Natural Sciences  sector, combines natural sciences, engineering, environmental sciences and social sciences. Germany values and  promotes the contribution made towards implementing Agenda 21 by UNESCO’s five international interdisciplinary  long-term programmes in the field of environmental science, which help raise worldwide awareness of the sensible use  and sustainable management of natural resources.
6.11 The German Government welcomes your intention, Mr Director-General, and that of your Assistant Director- General for Natural Sciences, to give highest priority to the global topic of “water” in the coming years and to work  closely together with other United Nations organizations such as WMO, FAO and UNEP. I am delighted that Germany  will host an International Conference on Freshwater in Bonn this December. The Conference will also help prepare for  the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002; its organizers are in close contact with  UNESCO’s experts.
6.12 Germany welcomes UNESCO’s objective of concentrating more on fostering the international exchange of  scientific data on information and communication technologies in order to form “knowledge-based societies”. We  suggest that UNESCO, in cooperation with the World Intellectual Property Organization and the International Council  for Science, develop a strategy for the global availability and international exchange of scientific data on the Internet  and establish a coordinated data exchange policy for the UNESCO scientific programme. The objective of this should  not simply be to fundamentally improve research options but also - as recommended by the World Conference on  Higher Education of 1998 and the World Conference on Science of 1999 - the securing of higher education locations,  especially in developing countries. In this way, the ever-increasing gap between the industrialized States and the  developing countries can be closed, and UNESCO would be making a lasting contribution to capacity-building in  developing countries and countries in transition. I hope that this goal can be realized even in an age when data  susceptible to misuse is handled with greater care.
6.13 Mr President, to conclude, let me repeat once more: Germany is and remains a committed member of  UNESCO. The German Government and my German fellow-citizens feel more committed to UNESCO than ever.  Germany has supported the reform process from its very conception as an active initiator and collaborator, and will  continue to do so. Thank you.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. May I now invite His Excellency, Mr Francisco Villar y Ortiz de Urbina,  Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Spain to UNESCO, to take the floor. Excellency, please.
(8.1) Mr VILLAR Y ORTIZ DE URBINA (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, distinguished Ministers and heads of delegation, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, on behalf of the Minister of Education and Culture of Spain, who could not be with us on this  occasion, and on behalf of my delegation, I should like, first of all, to congratulate Ambassador Jalali very warmly on his  election as President of the General Conference. This session will mark an important milestone in our Organization’s wide- ranging and complex reform process, which began exactly two years ago with the election of the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura. If we take stock of what has been accomplished so far, the appraisal can only be a favourable one. So, on  behalf of my delegation, I should like to congratulate the Director-General on the administrative and structural reforms that  have been undertaken, and encourage him to continue to carry them out with the same determination.
(8.2) My delegation also supports the new programme guidelines and the draft Medium-Term Strategy submitted to us  by the Executive Board, on the basis of the Director-General’s proposals. We see as particularly appropriate the programme  concentration achieved through the choice of a principal priority and a set of priorities for each programme, always  established on the basis of the terms of reference and comparative advantages of UNESCO in relation to other  organizations and international actors. The reform process, in its various aspects, is necessary if UNESCO is not to lose its  relevance, and if the unifying theme of its new strategy is to become a reality, namely, its contribution to peace and  development in the age of globalization, through education, science, culture, information and communication.
(8.3) Mr President, the tragic terrorist attacks of 11 September in New York and Washington were roundly condemned  by the international community and led to a very broad-based movement of solidarity. At the same time, the events showed,  today more than ever, that international cooperation was required to stand up to threats and actions which are an attack on  humanity as a whole, and on our freedoms and common values. UNESCO, through its action aimed at reducing extreme  poverty, ignorance and fanaticism, and consisting in the promotion of education for human rights, democracy and the  values of tolerance, dialogue and pluralism, can and should contribute to the efforts aimed at the progressive eradication of  some of the factors that are often used as a pretext for terrorism.
(8.4) Mr President, with regard to the main items on our agenda, my delegation fully endorses the statement by the  Minister of Culture of Belgium, in his capacity as the representative of the President of the European Union. I shall  therefore confine myself to highlighting some of the matters that are of particular concern to my country. First of all, I  should like to say a few words about education. As a social institution, education concerns the world of learning as much as  it does that of values. These two dimensions of education reinforce each other, and make it a fundamental means of  combating poverty and promoting human development. We therefore concur with and value very highly the education  component of the draft Medium-Term Strategy which is being submitted to this Conference for approval, a draft which  adopts and develops these principles and which has been markedly enriched by the recommendations of the Executive  Board. The World Education Forum, which took place last year in Dakar, led to a set of commitments on the part of the  international community and each of the participating countries to the achievement of education for all, for every citizen  and for every society. It behoves UNESCO to lead, coordinate and promote this initiative. Spain would like to renew here  its twofold endorsement of the Dakar Framework for Action and its development: in the domestic sphere, as a coordinated  mechanism with which to translate into reality our concern for equity, and in the context of cooperation with the developing  countries, as an instrument with which to promote international solidarity through education. We shall, in this way, step up  our cooperation in the field of education.
(8.5) Mr President, cultural themes are going to form a very large part of our work. The draft declaration on cultural  diversity, which the Director-General prepared in close collaboration with the Member States, is a set of principles and  guidelines that is opportune and fitting in the context of an unavoidable reality. The preservation of cultural diversity and  promotion of pluralism constitute nothing less than the putting into practice of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  and other international instruments. Moreover, the preservation of cultural diversity helps to alleviate some of the negative  consequences of what is termed globalization. The full recognition of diversity provides the best proof of the desire of our  States to ensure the harmony of their societies through the acceptance of differences, and on the basis of full respect for  human rights.
(8.6) The protection of the cultural and natural heritage is one of the fundamental fields of action among our tasks. The  Assembly of the States Parties to the 1972 Convention is going to examine possible reforms to improve the balance and  representativeness of the World Heritage Committee and List. My country is about to conclude an agreement on technical  assistance with the World Heritage Centre that will enable us to establish new forms of cooperation in this field with the  developing countries. The new category of oral and intangible heritage is also being supported by Spain. Our country has  just hosted a meeting of the International Jury which was primarily aimed at a more precise definition of the nature and  scope of this type of heritage, something we believe is essential before proceeding to establish any standard-setting  instrument. My country takes great interest in the draft convention on the protection of the underwater cultural heritage.  The Spanish delegation was unstinting in its efforts to facilitate the reconciliation of positions throughout the negotiations,  and I sincerely believe that it made an outstanding contribution to that end. We are not entirely satisfied with certain  aspects of the draft convention. However, in order to ensure that the widest consensus is achieved and that the international  community will at last be provided with an instrument for the protection of this type of heritage, we are prepared to accept
155  the text which came into being through arduous negotiations. We wish to appeal to all the Member States to adopt a  realistic attitude in order to ensure the approval of the draft convention at this session of the Conference.
(8.7) Mr President, the programmes relating to the Natural Sciences and the Social Sciences will acquire increasing  importance in the Organization if UNESCO wishes also to contribute to sustainable development. Spain is collaborating  actively with nearly all of them, and more especially with the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission and the Man  and the Biosphere (MAB) programme. In this connection, I should like to take this opportunity to inform the Conference of  the recent award, in my country, of the important Príncipe de Asturias de la Concordia Prize to the World Network of  Biosphere Reserves, in recognition of the work that UNESCO is carrying out through the MAB programme for the  conservation of ecosystems and their biodiversity, in parallel with the sustainable use of natural resources for the benefit of  local communities.
(8.8) With regard to the sphere of information and communication, we hope that the new Information for All  Programme will, through the provision of access to information and communication technologies, also contribute to the  development of education, science and culture as well as to the construction of a knowledge-based society that includes  everyone. Spain, which has contributed financially to previous UNESCO programmes, also proposes to provide  extrabudgetary funds for this new programme.
(8.9) Before concluding, I should like to inform this Conference of the forthcoming conclusion of a Framework  Cooperation Agreement between Spain and UNESCO which, among other things and in the spirit of the ongoing reforms,  will be aimed at putting in order and rationalizing, through the establishment of a trust fund, the extrabudgetary financial  contributions that my country is making to various programmes of the Organization. Thank you very much.
9. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon Her Excellency Ms Ingegerd Wärnersson, distinguished  Minister for Schools and Adult Education of Sweden. Madam, you have the floor.
10.1 Ms WÄRNERSSON (Sweden):   Mr President, let me start by congratulating you, Ambassador Jalali, on your election as President of this  session of the General Conference.
10.2 The shocking terror attacks of 11 September, and the response to these atrocities, which affect us all deeply,  demonstrate only too clearly the importance of strengthening our efforts towards realizing the goals of this  Organization. Mr Director-General, we fully support your words and sentiments when you said that it is indeed time for  ‘... a renewed commitment by us all to the principles of mutual understanding, peace and security which the United  Nations system upholds’. In this respect, we are indeed very happy that the United Nations and its Secretary-General,  Mr Kofi Annan, will share this year’s Nobel Peace Price.
10.3 Mr President, as has already been stated in the European Union statement, which we fully support, we  commend the Director-General for the results he has achieved so far in reforming UNESCO, its administration, its  structures and its programme, as reflected in the draft Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft Programme and Budget.  The Director-General has streamlined the Secretariat and made its structure more transparent. The Director-General has  also formulated a more concentrated strategy and programme, with clear priorities. We fully endorse his efforts and I  am confident that with a rolling Medium-Term Strategy, he will manage, with our help, to arrive at an even more  focused programme.
10.4 UNESCO’s most important task is its role as lead agency in the follow-up to the World Education Forum in  Dakar last year. Education is a basic human right and is essential for sustainable social, economic and environmental  development. Investment in basic education is indispensable for development. Education for all is vital to the  development both of good, democratic societies and of good, democratic and responsible citizens. At the individual  level, moreover, education opens up possibilities that would otherwise remain closed. It gives individuals a better  chance to lead healthy and productive lives, to participate fully in civic and political affairs, and to defend and protect  rights to survival - not least to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Education is also crucial for poverty reduction,  because it is an empowering tool. All these points are very clearly stated in the Draft Programme and Budget.
10.5 Education in fundamental social values and human rights must begin in early childhood education and continue  to play a significant role at all levels of the education system. What must be communicated are the concepts of the  integrity of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all human beings, equality  between women and men, and solidarity with the weak. The report of the Delors Commission underlined the need to  learn to live together as one of the fundamental pillars of education. In our view, this means education on Human  Rights. The concept ‘learning to live together’ is also related to the Draft Declaration on Cultural Diversity, which we  fully support. It is an important follow-up to the Stockholm Action Plan. And it just goes to show the close  interconnection between all UNESCO’s fields of competence.
10.6 The difficult task of a school system is to put knowledge into a context that is relevant to our own time and to  contemporary moral and ethical issues. Lessons in law, values and attitudes alone cannot impart a living sense of  democracy. Learners must be able to practise what they learn actively in everyday school life and in the teaching and  learning of all subjects. They must exert an influence and take responsibility, both for their own work and for the school  as a whole. They must acquire knowledge about different forms of practical cooperation, not least in democratic  decision-making, and simultaneously be given the opportunity to develop their independence and critical faculties. It is  therefore necessary for the school to create a democratic and tolerant climate. We adults should never attribute our own  failures here to a lack of interest in democracy on the part of pupils. It must always be our task to find strategies to  foster their interest and awaken their commitment. We know that the ability to exert an influence has a great bearing on  the desire to learn. When I was a teacher of seven-year-olds, I used to give my pupils the chance to plan and take  responsibility for their school day themselves. This is possible, if we want it to be possible and if we really believe in  children’s capabilities.
10.7 Living together also means strengthening social cohesion. Naturally, social cohesion is highly dependent on a  country’s inhabitants and the existing culture. Sweden used to be a very homogeneous country but has now become a  multicultural society. Pupils and students must therefore share common basic values if they are to live together in a  democratic atmosphere. If they study together in an environment marked by pupils and students representing rich social,  cultural and ethnic diversity, social cohesion will be enhanced.
10.8 Against this background, the challenge faced by UNESCO to achieve the goals set in the Framework for  Action on Education for All is immense. We cannot allow the Organization to fail. UNESCO must therefore  concentrate its resources on this overriding objective; The Dakar follow-up should not only be reflected in the education  programme. It bears a very clear relationship to all other programmes - science, culture and communication.
10.9 Mr President, when Sweden was a Member of the Executive Board we constantly raised the issue of how  UNESCO was seen and perceived - its visibility, in a broad sense of the word. The issue of how UNESCO is seen and  perceived becomes more and more important when the Organization as such is called into question. Therefore, it is - in  a way - a matter of survival for UNESCO that it has a well-defined and efficient public information strategy. We are  therefore happy to see that the Director-General has decided to follow up the recommendations of the Expert Group that  he set up after the last General Conference. And we are confident that, with such a strategy, with a proper reallocation  of resources and with skilled staff deployed in this field, UNESCO and its important work will receive due attention and  become more visible.
10.10 To sum up Sweden’s views on UNESCO: further concentration on the programme, Education for All,  education in human rights, in a broad sense, and the visibility of the Organization - these are some of the major  challenges for UNESCO in the years to come. Thank you, Mr President.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Before I give the floor to our next distinguished speaker, I would like  to give the floor to the Director-General who has an important statement to make. Mr Director-General, please.
12. Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL  :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je viens d'apprendre le décès du Ministre israélien du tourisme  M. Rehavam Zeevi à la suite d'un attentat perpétré à son encontre ce matin à Jérusalem. J'ai immédiatement adressé mes  plus vives condoléances au Gouvernement israélien. J'ai évoqué hier, lorsque j'ai lancé mon appel en faveur de  Jérusalem, cette période trouble et de déraison dans laquelle nous vivons. Cet assassinat odieux vient s'ajouter à tous les  actes de violence qui depuis quelque temps occupent le premier plan de la scène internationale. Je ne peux aujourd'hui  que joindre à nouveau ma voix à toutes celles qui appellent les parties en conflit au Proche-orient à reprendre le chemin  du dialogue et à réactiver le processus de paix. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Mr Director-General. May I now call upon our next speaker, His Excellency Mr Matthew Peek,  distinguished Permanent Delegate of Australia to UNESCO. Excellency, the floor is yours.
14.1 Mr PEEK (Australia):1   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, may  I join with others in warmly congratulating you on your election to this important post, the duties of which extend well  beyond this meeting. Over the next two years, you will have a heavy responsibility in presenting UNESCO to the world,  in working with the Director-General to win for UNESCO the recognition it richly deserves. Quite apart from the
1  The speaker provided the Secretariat with a written addendum to his statement which, with the authorization of the President, is reproduced  in full in annex to this verbatim record.
157  personal qualities you bring to your task your election is important because it has served to reinforce the important  principle of equitable geographic rotation. The more we can strengthen this practice, in all of UNESCO’s major bodies  and positions of leadership, the less we will be distracted by lobbying and campaigning from the important substantive  work that we have to do.
14.2 The urgent need for this work was made dramatically and horrifyingly clear on 11 September and indeed by  the news that the Director-General has just sadly conveyed to us now. The Director-General has pointed out that  UNESCO has a responsibility, flowing directly from its mandate, to address the root causes, the breeding grounds of  terrorism. We must continue, and do more, to alleviate intolerance and discrimination and to overcome ignorance,  exclusion and inequality.
14.3 Mr President, in my remarks today I want to concentrate on three issues, issues which are of importance since  they are the issues which should be central to the work of UNESCO over the biennium. I will not on this occasion be  outlining the important developments that have taken place in Australia in UNESCO’s fields of competence over the  last two years; opening up our higher education to students from around the world, particularly developing countries;  the creation of accessible pathways for lifelong learning; and the linking of the world of education with the world of  work through the establishment of a dynamic centre for technical and vocational education and training. Likewise,  Australia has taken new initiatives following on from the Budapest Conference to promote the popularization of science  and sustainable development and launch fresh initiatives to explore the interface between traditional and western  cultures. Proud as we are of these achievements, we believe that statements such as this can more usefully focus on  issues relating to the Organization more broadly. Nonetheless, these may be developments of interest and relevance to  some Member States and for that reason they are outlined in the expanded version of the text of this statement which  will be distributed.
14.4 Mr President, let me then focus on the three issues. These are: the reform process and governance; focusing the  programme of UNESCO; and the Pacific.
14.5 At the close of the last millennium the image of UNESCO was of an Organization which had highly relevant  goals, important but somewhat unfocused programmes, and poor governance and management; and consequently, low  staff morale. Much progress has been made over the last two years as a result of the Director-General’s reform agenda.  Within the Secretariat new structures have been established and a new culture of performance is slowly emerging.  Much remains to be done to ensure that the theory of the new structure, and the essence of the new culture, are  implemented and absorbed at all levels of the Organization. But the progress that has been achieved under the Director- General is impressive.
14.6 But we must not focus solely on the Secretariat. There are three distinct components in the structure of  governance of UNESCO. While the Secretariat, led by the Director-General, has begun the process of organizational  reform, the two other components, the General Conference and the Executive Board, have as yet made little progress  towards establishing an effective role for themselves for the UNESCO of the twenty-first century. This must be a high  priority for us in the coming biennium. The General Conference must re-establish its role as the body which conveys  the views and the broad priorities of Member States to both the Secretariat and the Executive Board. It is the Parliament  of UNESCO. The role of the Executive Board should be to oversee the detailed implementation of these views and  priorities by the Secretariat. This is very easy to say, and indeed perhaps blindingly obvious. But to establish such a  regime of governance is much more difficult. This issue has been preoccupying the Executive Board over the past  biennium, although, I regret to say, little progress has been made. Nonetheless, the issue has been referred to this  General Conference and we would hope, at the very least, that the Conference will set a clear and explicit requirement  for the incoming Executive Board to put forward firm, practical recommendations aimed at proposing a proper and  effective system of governance for consideration by the next General Conference.
14.7 Let me now turn to the substance of UNESCO’s work. We have before us not only the Draft Programme and  Budget for the next biennium, the C/5 document, but also the C/4 document, the Strategy for the next six years. We  welcome the effort made in both these documents to establish clear priorities and strategies. This represents important  progress compared to the situation of two years ago, and prior to that. But this of itself is not enough. There are still far  too many priority activities for both our budget and staffing resources to implement effectively. Past programmes, and  even ones we are about to consider at this Conference, have no sunset clauses and few have effective and built-in  mechanisms for the measurement of outcomes and programme evaluation. In too many programmes, the predominant  practice is meetings and talk, rather than action to secure change.
14.8 Potentially the scope of UNESCO’s activities is almost limitless - culture, education, sciences and  communication cover a vast spectrum of human activity. What we must develop is a sharp focus on a limited number of  areas in each sector - and across sectors - on issues which are most relevant and where UNESCO has a clear  comparative advantage. We are, at present, spreading our resources too thinly and, as a consequence, we do not always  achieve the international recognition of UNESCO’s expertise, and the international profile that this would bring. This
158  kind of international recognition would, in turn, facilitate UNESCO’s taking a leading role in building international  partnerships of the kind that have been foreshadowed in the C/4 and the C/5 documents.
14.9 Let me now turn to the Pacific. One of the single most successful examples of the implementation of the  decentralization programme is the cluster office for the entire Pacific. Located in Apia, the office covers 16 countries,  by far the largest number of countries in a single cluster - the average UNESCO cluster is only five countries. This  outcome reflects the commitment of the countries of the Pacific to achieving genuine reform in UNESCO.
14.10 For this bold experiment to work, in which one cluster office covers a geographic area greater than the whole  of Africa, requires that this office be fully staffed; that is, with professional staff from each sector plus staff to cover the  specific needs of the region, in particular, world heritage and information. It also requires regular visits to the region,  isolated as it is, from Headquarters. As far as I know, there have been no visits to the Pacific Island countries at Director  level since the last Conference and indeed, none by an Assistant Director-General. Contrast this experience to the  experience of any other group of Member States comprising almost 10 per cent of UNESCO’s membership.
14.11 The Pacific States are strong supporters of UNESCO - membership growth in recent years has been spectacular  and we have great pleasure at this session in welcoming a new Associate Member, Tokelau. But Pacific States are  small. They are not able to afford permanent delegation offices here in Paris and their National Commissions need  stronger support. Yet it is in countries like these that UNESCO can have its greatest impact. The relative neglect of the  Pacific must not be allowed to continue. Let us make this next biennium one in which the Pacific takes its rightful place  amongst UNESCO’s priorities.
14.12 In this context, I would draw your attention to 31 C/DR.52, which clearly sets out the priorities established by  Pacific countries themselves for the coming biennium during a recent meeting at Nadi. The draft resolution draws  particular attention to key areas. Globalization, like it or not, is a fact - small, isolated countries, which nonetheless have  had their own rich and distinctive cultures over thousands of years, must be given the means to maintain their identities  and values. UNESCO can, and must, play a vital role here through capacity-building. The work already done on the  intangible heritage is useful. Basic literacy and numeracy programmes are also vitally important. Likewise, vocational  education and training programmes are crucial to the economic development of each of the individual countries, and  indeed to each of their individual citizens, particularly youth.
14.13 In the area of information and communication technology, the countries of the Pacific are similarly  disadvantaged. Virtually no schoolchildren or teachers in the Pacific have access to the Internet. Here the role of  UNESCO must be that of catalyst. UNESCO is not an aid delivery agency, but it has the ability to mobilize the  resources of others, whether these be United Nations bodies, financial institutions or NGOs.
14.14 It is difficult for those living in a city like Paris, one of the most cosmopolitan cities of the world, to  comprehend the reality of the Pacific. Too easily it is seen as a bountiful tropical paradise. The reality is very different.  Warm and tropical these islands may be, but their needs are great. Many of these needs could be met by UNESCO. To  understand the reality of the Pacific today it is essential that senior Secretariat members visit the region regularly to see  for themselves.
14.15 Mr President, Australia, as a founding member of UNESCO, remains deeply committed to the ideals of the  Organization. At a time like this, our commitment is stronger than ever. As always, we stand ready and willing to serve  the Organization and to work with all Members, and the Director-General, to promote and achieve tolerance and  international understanding. In the post-11 September world, our effective pursuit of these goals can contribute  significantly to peace and stability in the world. Mr President, like wars, terrorism begins in the mind; and it is in the  mind that the defences of peace must be constructed. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador, especially for your very clear, well-defined suggestion. I now call upon  His Excellency Mr Khamtanh Chanthala, distinguished Deputy Minister of Education of the Lao People’s Democratic  Republic. Excellency, you have the floor.
16.1 M. CHANTHALA (République démocratique populaire lao) :    Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, vous me permettrez, Monsieur le Président, de vous adresser mes vives félicitations pour votre  élection et par la même occasion de présenter mes cordiales salutations à tous les honorables délégués ici présents.
16.2 Monsieur le Président, à l'aube du troisième millénaire, la 31e session, première du siècle qui s'ouvre, marque  une étape très importante pour notre Organisation. En effet, à l'ère de la mondialisation, la contribution de l'UNESCO à  la paix et au développement humain par l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication est plus que jamais  cruciale.
16.3 La persistance de la pauvreté, thème de la Troisième Conférence des Nations Unies sur les pays les moins  avancés qui s'est tenue à Bruxelles au mois de mai dernier, est d'autant plus perturbante qu'elle accompagne une phase  d'intensification de la mondialisation qui englobe et touche toutes les activités de notre société. La pauvreté, et en  particulier l'extrême pauvreté, constitue une atteinte aux droits fondamentaux de l'homme et, à l'heure actuelle, elle est  au cœur des préoccupations de toutes les  sociétés, avec son cortège d'injustices, d'exclusions, de privations et  d'inégalités.
16.4 Nombreux sont les pays en développement qui subissent de fortes pressions aussi bien dans la lutte qu'ils  mènent pour faire face aux problèmes de sous-développement et parvenir à la croissance dans l'équité, que dans leur  recherche d'une mondialisation à visage humain.
16.5 Dans de nombreuses régions du monde, la paix demeure précaire et reste une gageure permanente pour la  communauté internationale. La paix dont nous devons ériger les défenses dans l'esprit des hommes implique la  confiance et la compréhension entre différentes cultures, entre les nations et surtout entre les communautés. Sans la paix  et la sécurité, point de progrès ni de développement durable, telle est l'évidence qui ressort de la Déclaration du  millénaire adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies en septembre de l'année dernière.
16.6 De par son Acte constitutif et son mandat d'institution spécialisée des Nations Unies, l'UNESCO est appelée à  contribuer aux buts de paix et de prospérité commune de l'humanité, à travers une stratégie appropriée et une approche  axée sur l'action et les résultats. Notre délégation constate avec satisfaction que la Stratégie à moyen terme s'articule  autour de trois grands axes, à savoir  : élaboration de principes et normes à caractère universel, promotion du pluralisme  et promotion de la participation à la société du savoir. C'est avec grand plaisir que nous approuvons le document
31 C/4 présenté par le Directeur général, d'autant plus que la stratégie proposée est à horizon glissant. De même, nous  sommes satisfaits des efforts prévus dans les programmes de l'UNESCO en faveur des groupes et régions  géographiques défavorisés.
16.7 Notre délégation tient à féliciter le Directeur général pour les efforts qu'il a déployés depuis sa prise de  fonction afin de rendre l'UNESCO plus performante, crédible et visible. Les documents 31 C/4  et 31 C/5  attestent sa  volonté d'aller de l'avant dans le processus de réforme en cours, conformément aux orientations voulues et souhaitées  par l'ensemble des Etats membres.
16.8 S'il est relativement aisé d'annoncer les orientations et de définir les axes stratégiques, il n'en est pas de même  pour leur mise en oeuvre. Ainsi donc, le programme pour l'exercice biennal 2002-2003 devrait se contenter d'un budget  à croissance nominale zéro. Notre délégation accepte les propositions du Directeur général, mais considère qu'il s'agit là  d'un budget de transition et non de sanction. Notre délégation estime que d'autres sources de financement doivent venir  étoffer le budget du programme ordinaire si la communauté des Etats membres veut que l'Organisation remplisse sa  mission et réponde aux besoins urgents des plus défavorisés et des exclus.
16.9 Pour sa part, notre pays, la République démocratique populaire lao, s'inspirant des principes et  recommandations des grandes conférences internationales organisées par l'UNESCO, s'est attaché dans toute la mesure  de ses moyens à développer les ressources humaines indispensables à son développement. C'est ainsi qu'il a entrepris de  réformer l'enseignement supérieur en rationalisant sa structure et sa gestion et en cherchant à accroître sa pertinence, à  resserrer ses relations avec l'ensemble du corps social et économique, à améliorer sa qualité et à élargir la coopération  au niveau tant international que régional.
16.10 S'agissant de l'enseignement technique et professionnel, mon gouvernement a procédé à sa rénovation en le  considérant comme un secteur spécifique du système national d'éducation, mais ouvert sur le monde du travail et de  l'emploi, en cherchant à renforcer son articulation avec les réalités socio-économiques locales, régionales et nationales,  en élargissant et en diversifiant l'offre de formation par la prise en compte des modèles structurés et non structurés, et  aussi en privilégiant une politique partenariale de formation.
16.11 En ce qui concerne l'éducation pour tous, poursuivant l'oeuvre entreprise durant la dernière décennie et prenant  en compte le Cadre d'action de Dakar 2000, mon gouvernement vient de mettre au point deux projets majeurs qui  doivent nous permettre d'atteindre les six objectifs que nous avons fixés ensemble et particulièrement ceux qui sont  prévus en faveur des filles et des jeunes femmes, des jeunes appartenant à des groupes ethniques minoritaires et de tous  les défavorisés de la société.
16.12 En adhérant au projet de l'UNESCO "Vers une culture de la paix", mon pays a d'une part, réservé, dans les  programmes scolaires et universitaires, et en particulier les programmes d'éducation civique, d'histoire, de géographie et  de lettres, une place plus importante à l'éducation pour la paix et la tolérance, les droits de l'homme, la démocratie, la  compréhension internationale et la protection du patrimoine et, d'autre part, étendu aux principales provinces le Réseau  des écoles associées avec le soutien de l'UNESCO.
16.13 Etant donné le sous-financement de l'éducation constaté à tous les niveaux et particulièrement à celui de  l'éducation de base, je voudrais, de cette tribune, réitérer l'appel à la solidarité de la communauté internationale pour  qu'une assistance financière et technique accrue soit dégagée en faveur des pays les plus démunis mais dotés d'une  volonté politique sans faille.
16.14 Dans le domaine de la culture, mon pays suit avec beaucoup d'attention la préparation de la déclaration sur la  diversité culturelle, dont le projet, soumis à notre examen, trouve dans son ensemble le soutien de notre délégation.
16.15 Monsieur le Président, en terminant, permettez-moi d'ajouter que la complexité et l'ampleur des défis du  XXIe siècle contraignent la communauté internationale à adopter une démarche globale, à se tourner vers l'avenir et  faire preuve d'imagination parce qu'une paix juste et durable ne saurait être instaurée sur la base de dispositions  uniquement économiques et politiques mais requiert la "solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité". Je vous  remercie.  DEUXIÈME RAPPORT DU COMITÉ DE VÉRIFICATION DES POUVOIRS ET PREMIER RAPPORT  DU PRÉSIDENT DU COMITÉ DE VÉRIFICATION DES POUVOIRS   SECOND REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE AND FIRST REPORT BY THE CHAIRPERSON  OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  SEGUNDO INFORME DEL COMITÉ DE VERIFICACIÓN DE PODERES Y PRIMER INFORME DEL  PRESIDENTE DEL COMITÉ DE VERIFICACIÓN DE PODERES  ВТОРОЙ ДОКЛАД КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ И ПЕРВЫЙ ДОКЛАД ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ  КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ  א א א א א  א 全权证书委员会的第二次报告以及全权证书委员会主席的第一次报告
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we were not able to hear the first report  of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee and the second report of the Committee. With your permission, before  I give the floor to the next distinguished Minister, we will hear it now. It will be very short. Excellency,  Mr Mamajonov, you have the floor, sir.
18.1 M. MAMAJONOV (Ouzbékistan), Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Depuis la lecture de son premier rapport en séance plénière, le 15 octobre 2001, le Comité de vérification des  pouvoirs a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme de la délégation des Iles Marshall. Le Comité a également reçu les  pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des pays suivants, qui avaient auparavant présenté des pouvoirs  provisoires : Angola, Bélarus, Bolivie, Bosnie-Herzégovine, Cap-Vert, Chili, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypte, Estonie,  Guatemala, Japon, Haïti, Kazakhstan, Libéria, Mozambique, Ouzbékistan, Paraguay, Pérou, Philippines, République  démocratique du Congo, Slovénie, Tchad et Yougoslavie. Le Comité a en outre reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme  des délégations des Antilles néerlandaises et des Iles Vierges britanniques, Membres associés, qui elles aussi avaient  présenté auparavant des pouvoirs provisoires.
18.2 Conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la  Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs.
18.3 Par ailleurs, les délégations de Malte et du Tadjikistan, qui n'avaient pas encore présenté de pouvoirs, ont  présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Je propose que ces pouvoirs provisoires soient acceptés, sous réserve que les  délégations de ces pays présentent ultérieurement des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme, et qu'elles soient autorisées dans  l'intervalle à prendre part aux travaux de la présente session de la conférence générale. Merci.
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson of the Credentials Committee for your first report and for the second  report of the Committee. Are there comments from the floor? I hear none. The General Conference accordingly takes  note of the reports.
20. The PRESIDENT:   We now continue with our speakers for this afternoon. I now call upon His Excellency the Honourable Raul  Roco, Secretary of the Department of Education, Culture and Sports of the Philippines. Excellency, please.
21.1 Mr ROCO (Philippines):2   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, my  friends, may I first offer you my congratulations, Mr President, for your election and my thanks to President Jacques  Chirac for the humanist voice of the French people. On behalf of the Filipino people and our President, Madam Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo, we greet all of you - “Mabuhay!”.
21.2 “Mabuhay” means life. It is a celebration of life - the nurturing, the caring for life. It refers to the strivings of  the human spirit to live, to grow, to excel, to know, to share, to care, to love. And from where we stand, Mr President,  that is what this Conference is all about: the life of the human person, the enhancement of his humanity, the flowering  of his personality through education and knowledge, culture and creativity, justice and liberty.
21.3 The Philippines believes with UNESCO that war is, I quote, “made possible by the denial of the democratic  principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men” and that peace must be founded upon the “intellectual and  moral solidarity of mankind.” The Filipino people have stood by the human rights to life, liberty, education for all and  diversity in our culture - from our Malayan roots and through the interplay of our Christian and Islamic traditions and  the evolution of our legal system based on the Anglo-Saxon principles of protecting individual rights.
21.4 Thus, Mr President, on 11 September, when terrorism was demonstrated at its malignant worst, the Philippines  was among those who immediately joined the United Nations in condemning these inhuman acts and calling for  “international cooperation to prevent and eradicate acts of terrorism…” and to hold accountable those who aided,  supported or harboured these senseless criminals. We prayed for the lives we lost, we wept with the families who  grieved, we condoled with the American people and we will abide by this resolve. For acts of terrorism are a denial of  life and humanity!
21.5 But the gravity of these crimes does not allow the democracies to deny life or humanity. In fighting terrorism,  we cannot become the ogre that we fight. The blood of the innocent has always strengthened the desire for freedom but  we who believe in freedom have never been allowed to shed the blood of the innocent. It is the paradox of democracy.  Democracy cannot be defended by senseless killings. It is weakened thereby. Freedom cannot be made to flower  through force, it must be nurtured. The light of liberty cannot come from explosions but from reason. How then do we  proceed? What then can be done? The answer may be found in the soul of UNESCO: education, cultural diversity,  shared science.
21.6 It was Albert Camus who said that “In the midst of winter, I found within myself an invincible summer.”  Paraphrasing him, perhaps we can say, that in the midst of the winter of unreason, we must find within ourselves the  invincible summer of sharing knowledge and communicating values with the human family. And when this is prevented  by poverty, we must fight poverty. When it is obstructed by prejudice, we must promote tolerance. When it is darkened  by propaganda, we must fight with truth.
21.7 To achieve this, the Philippines will support UNESCO’s efforts to promote dialogue among civilizations  within a culture of peace. Dialogue is the way to address grievances, injustices and inequality. To ensure a lasting  infrastructure for dialogue and a culture of peace, the Philippines has implemented its commitment to the goals of  Education for All. It has, in this year 2001, fully implemented free elementary and secondary education. No child shall  hereafter be deprived of education on account of poverty or lack of access to schools. We will concentrate the learning  areas on basic literacy and numeracy, permeated by spiritual, civic and cultural values. We have expanded the contact  time between teachers and students. We will enhance interactive teaching to promote a culture of peace. As the  UNESCO Constitution puts it, the “defences of peace must be constructed” in the minds of our children and the next  generation. The Philippines will attain the goals of the Dakar Framework for Action.
2  The speaker provided the Secretariat with the full text of his statement which, with the authorization of the President, is reproduced in  full in annex to this verbatim record.
21.8 All these efforts require resources and support. More than one-third of the Philippine population is in its  schools. Some 17 million children are in the public school system and another four million in private schools. Another  five million are in tertiary, university or technological training. In this effort to achieve Education for All, the  international lending institutions must consider “education for debt” swaps, which would mitigate the spectacle of  increased spending on armaments in the face of hunger and ignorance.
21.9 The Philippines is a pace-setter in gender equality. Over the last ten years, equality between men and women  has been ensured. Women may enter into contracts just like their spouses. Women have joined the military academies,  expanded their representation in government, become leaders in business and in civil society. Crimes against women  are punished severely. Equal opportunity is guaranteed regardless of gender, religion or political beliefs.
21.10 With more than 70 per cent of our population below 30 years of age, young people are in the mainstream of  national life. We do not treat our young as citizens of tomorrow but as citizens of today. They are our hope. Our youth  have ousted a president and they keep our government officials responsive and alert to the public welfare.
21.11 In science, the Philippines supports the Medium-Term Strategy’s recognition of science as a shared asset  benefiting all peoples. We also congratulate the Director-General on the significant progress in the draft declaration on  cultural diversity. Like others, the Philippines is committed to the preservation of its creative heritage and also supports  the initiative of the Director-General to launch, under the auspices of UNESCO, an international effort to safeguard the  heritage of the old city of Jerusalem. This common home of many religious values should bring into perspective  humanity’s aspiration for a culture of peace.
21.12 In conclusion, Mr President, it was Alvin and Heidi Toffler who observed that human society uses the  instruments for generating wealth as weapons in prosecuting war. We have gone far in that regard. Knowledge and  cyberspace are now used for war. Smart weapons, they call them. Perceptive intelligence, they say. Thus we use our  greatest gifts to destroy. That is not how human society should go. We must learn to use knowledge and cyberspace to  prevent war and senseless violence. This should be the dream of UNESCO and the Philippines will share what it can to  achieve this goal. Again we say, Mabuhay - To life, to peace, to friendships. To freedom from fear, freedom from  poverty, freedom from prejudice. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I would now like to invite His Excellency Mr Júlio Pedrosa, distinguished  Minister of Education of Portugal, to take the floor. You have the floor, sir.
23.1 M. PEDROSA (Portugal) (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Madame la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames  et Messieurs, conformément à son Acte constitutif et à sa pratique, l'UNESCO s'emploie sans relâche et  avec  détermination à promouvoir la culture de la paix et la compréhension entre les peuples. La Résolution 55/47, par  laquelle l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a chargé l'UNESCO de coordonner la promotion d'une culture de la  non-violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde, en particulier dans le domaine de l'éducation, durant la  période 2001-2010, est venue confirmer cette mission majeure de notre Organisation.
23.2 Le contexte international actuel marqué par les attentats terroristes de New York et de Washington, que le  Portugal a condamnés sans la moindre ambiguïté, met encore davantage en relief le rôle de l'UNESCO dans la lutte  contre l'ignorance, le fanatisme, la xénophobie et dans l'édification d'une culture de la solidarité entre les peuples.  Carrefour de civilisations millénaires, le Portugal, comme en témoigne son histoire, rejette toute interprétation simpliste  qui consisterait à assimiler le terrorisme au monde arabe et musulman.
23.3 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, nous nous félicitons du projet de Stratégie à moyen  terme présenté par le Directeur général, projet qui s'inscrit dans une démarche ambitieuse de rénovation de notre  Organisation, à laquelle il s'est pleinement consacré et avec laquelle nous marquons notre plein accord, tant du point de  vue de sa philosophie et de ses objectifs généraux qu'en ce qui concerne ses visées spécifiques.
23.4 Le renforcement, dans le cadre du suivi de la Conférence de Dakar, des efforts en faveur d'une éducation de  qualité pour tous, qui accorde une importance et une pertinence particulières à l'objectif d'apprendre à vivre ensemble,  adopté à Genève lors de la dernière session de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation, prend un sens tout particulier  aujourd'hui. Le Portugal a inscrit cet objectif dans sa politique d'éducation et a entrepris une importante révision des  programmes scolaires du primaire et du secondaire afin de mieux adapter l'offre d'éducation à la diversité des publics  que l'école accueille aujourd'hui.
23.5 Parvenir à l'éducation pour tous exige un grand effort de coordination, non seulement sur le plan national mais  aussi au niveau international. Nous avons entrepris de coopérer avec tous les pays, notamment les pays dont la langue
163  officielle est le portugais, et avec les institutions multilatérales afin de promouvoir l'éducation, qui est, à notre avis, un  moyen essentiel d'éliminer la pauvreté.
23.6 La contribution de la science au développement des sociétés et à la promotion du bien-être des personnes est  incontestable et l'on reconnaît de plus en plus l'apport des sciences sociales à la compréhension de l'impact des  technologies et de la connaissance scientifique sur nos sociétés. Le Portugal a cherché à inscrire ces préoccupations tant  au niveau de ses politiques propres qu'au plan international, notamment, je tiens à le souligner, dans le cadre de l'Union  européenne.
23.7 L'importance que revêt le savoir, quand il s'agit de servir la sécurité et le progrès, met davantage en relief le  lien entre la science, la culture et le développement que notre Organisation s'emploie à renforcer. Cette orientation est  particulièrement bienvenue quand elle contribue à nous faire reconnaître et apprécier la valeur des différences  culturelles, reconnue dans la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle. Seules la compréhension et la préservation du  pluralisme, dans un profond respect des droits de l'homme, permettront le dialogue entre les cultures et les civilisations,  par un engagement constant pour la défense de l'héritage commun de l'humanité.
23.8 Le Portugal suit avec un intérêt tout particulier la négociation de la Convention sur la protection du patrimoine  culturel subaquatique. Il souhaite que son approbation réponde aux attentes relatives à la protection d'un patrimoine  d'une très grande valeur, répandu à travers le monde.
23.9 Si la création de savoirs et la garantie d'une éducation de qualité pour tous constituent des conditions  essentielles pour assurer une politique de développement humain, privilégier l'accès à l'information et à la connaissance  se révèle également de plus en plus nécessaire. Les nouvelles possibilités que l'utilisation des technologies de  l'information et l'accès au savoir ouvrent à la vie démocratique sont incontestables et il est de plus en plus évident  qu'elles ouvrent la voie à un changement des contextes et des modes d'accès à l'éducation et à la formation. C'est  pourquoi nous estimons particulièrement important d'inscrire l'accès aux technologies de l'information et de la  communication, la libre circulation des idées, la promotion du pluralisme et du multilinguisme parmi les objectifs  fondamentaux d'une stratégie de l'UNESCO de nature à amplifier la contribution de l'Organisation au développement et  à la compréhension entre les peuples.
23.10 A cet égard, il convient de mentionner l'importance des langues qui véhiculent une culture, telle la langue  portugaise qui, dans ses variantes, est présente sur plusieurs continents, en raison de relations séculaires, et qui sert ainsi  de lien entre des espaces géographiques séparés.
23.11 Je ne voudrais pas terminer sans me féliciter du choix du Prix Nobel de la Paix, qui touche de façon  particulièrement significative cette institution des Nations Unies, à un moment où il devient indispensable d'ouvrir un  chemin à l'espoir et à la paix. Je vous remercie.
24.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much Excellency.  (Le Président poursuit en français)
24.2 J’ai le plaisir d’inviter maintenant le Ministre de l’éducation nationale de la France, M Jack Lang, à prendre la  parole. Je vous en prie, Monsieur le Ministre.
25.1 M. LANG (France) :   Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers collègues, votre hauteur de vues et votre sens du  dialogue, Monsieur le Président, seront déterminants pour la conduite et le succès de nos travaux. Je vous transmets à ce  titre, non seulement les félicitations du Gouvernement de la France, mais aussi ses vœux de succès.
25.2 Les événements survenus le 11 septembre dernier, événements qui ne sont peut-être encore que des prémices,  modifient profondément le sens de nos travaux et vont donner à notre réflexion une tonalité plus grave que celle que  nous aurions souhaitée. Raison de plus pour ne pas transiger sur nos exigences en matière de tolérance, de respect,  d'ouverture d'esprit et de reconnaissance des cultures des différents peuples.
25.3 Cette Organisation, Monsieur le Directeur général, vous en avez pris les rênes voici deux ans, et vous avez su  depuis lors la mettre pleinement à l'heure de son temps en encourageant un processus de réforme approfondie de ses  modes de fonctionnement. Ce travail, je le crois, commence à porter ses fruits. D'ores et déjà, se dessine sous votre  impulsion une nouvelle image de l'Organisation.
25.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers collègues, permettez-moi d'évoquer en premier lieu le  thème de la diversité culturelle, c'est-à-dire de la reconnaissance de la richesse culturelle de nos différents peuples. C'est
164  un sujet qui nous tient particulièrement à coeur. Dans une époque d'uniformisation générale des cultures, nous ne  pouvons évidemment pas accepter qu'une logique mercantile ou commerciale soit à la source des activités de création,  de culture et d'éducation. C'est la raison pour laquelle notre pays, en particulier par toute une série d'actions d'incitation  à la création et à l'éducation, souhaite préserver et encourager la créativité intellectuelle, scientifique et artistique.
25.5 Dans le même temps, nous attachons un très grand prix à la diversité linguistique et au développement de  l'apprentissage du plurilinguisme. De nombreuses initiatives ont vu le jour, en particulier en Europe, et il est évident que  diversité culturelle et diversité linguistique vont de pair. Sur le plan national, la France a, en liaison avec ses collègues  européens, encouragé l'apprentissage des langues vivantes dès le plus jeune âge. C'est en tout cas le sens de notre plan  national, puisque nous avons décidé, voici un an, d'introduire l'enseignement obligatoire d'une première langue vivante  étrangère dans les écoles de base et d'une deuxième langue vivante étrangère à partir de l'âge de 11 ans.
25.6 Dans le domaine de la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel, dois-je rappeler l'importance que notre pays attache à  l'action normative de l'UNESCO ? Nous continuerons à apporter notre soutien résolu à la mise en oeuvre de la  Convention du patrimoine mondial; de même, nous soutiendrons la Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel  subaquatique, dont nous espérons que l'élaboration pourra aboutir dans les meilleurs délais. Dans le même esprit, nous  soutenons aussi les projets de l'UNESCO relatifs au patrimoine immatériel, en espérant que le travail de clarification en  cours servira de base à l'élaboration d'un instrument normatif clair et efficace.
25.7 Monsieur le Président, l'autre thème de nos travaux a trait à l'éducation, mais je viens de l'évoquer à l'instant à  propos des langues. Il reste beaucoup à faire : on le sait, la tâche est immense à travers le monde. Un événement de  portée considérable s'est produit en 2000 - je veux parler de la tenue du Forum de Dakar. Sous l'égide de l'UNESCO, un  solide partenariat a été forgé en vue d'assurer la généralisation de l'éducation de base d'ici à 2015 et la parité entre  garçons et filles dans l'enseignement primaire et secondaire avant 2005. Cela est extrêmement important, et je pense en  particulier au devoir qui est celui des pays riches vis-à-vis des pays les plus pauvres, devoir de les aider dans leur  combat contre l'ignorance et pour l'éducation. Ce sont huit millions de francs que notre pays a d'ores et déjà mis à la  disposition de l'UNESCO à cet effet, et je crois qu'il nous faut sans relâche poursuivre notre lutte contre l'une des  grandes inégalités sociales et culturelles de cette planète. Je me réjouis de la réunion du Groupe de haut niveau pour le  suivi du Forum de Dakar, et la participation à ses travaux d'un membre de notre gouvernement, M. Josselin, témoigne  de notre engagement.
25.8 Nous savons qu'au-delà même de sa mission culturelle, de sa mission d'alphabétisation, l'école n'est pas  seulement un instrument de progrès social, mais qu'elle est aussi, à notre époque où le fanatisme prospère ici ou là, l'un  des meilleurs remparts, l'un des meilleurs instruments, l'un des meilleurs remèdes face à l'intolérance. D'un mot, je  voudrais dire aussi notre souhait que l'enseignement supérieur ne soit pas oublié dans les travaux de la présente session  ni dans les préoccupations de l'UNESCO. En Europe même, c'est un sujet qui nous a beaucoup occupé et auquel nous  réfléchissons sérieusement depuis quelque temps entre ministres de l'éducation et de l'enseignement supérieur, au-delà  même de l'Union européenne, dans le cadre de la grande Europe, en particulier depuis la conférence qui s'est tenue à  Prague en mai 2001, où ce sont 35 pays qui se sont réunis pour construire ensemble un espace européen de  l'enseignement supérieur, en encourageant notamment les étudiants à accomplir une partie de leurs études hors de leur  pays d'origine, le bénéfice devant leur en rester acquis pour leur futur diplôme.
25.9 Monsieur le Président, je serais évidemment impardonnable de ne pas mentionner notre soutien aux activités  de l'UNESCO dans le domaine des technologies de la communication, activités porteuses d'espoir, de démocratie,  d'enrichissement intellectuel. Le projet de recommandation sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès  universel au cyberespace et le programme "Information pour tous" apportent des éléments de réponse encourageants.  Avant de conclure, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dire aussi combien nous attachons de l'importance au Courrier de  l'UNESCO, qui constitue un instrument intellectuel irremplaçable dans de nombreux pays. Il m'apparaît aussi très  significatif qu'une des priorités du programme concerne l'éthique des sciences et des technologies. Enfin, dans le  domaine de la bioéthique, l'UNESCO doit poursuivre son action comme forum de réflexion et comme foyer  d'élaboration de normes internationales.
25.10 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l'action de l'UNESCO forme plus que jamais un tout. C'est une  oeuvre colossale dans le cadre d'un budget malheureusement parfois trop contraint, qui oblige à un recentrage sur les  activités correspondant aux missions fondamentales de l'Organisation. Cependant, il faut oser dire - car je le pense  personnellement  - que le maintien d'une croissance nominale zéro compromettrait le mandat d'une organisation qui est  un maillon essentiel dans la construction de la paix et de la démocratie et dans la défense des droits de l'homme. Plus  que jamais, il importe d'anticiper, de prévoir, d'imaginer, et c'est pourquoi nous apportons notre appui à l'action  prospective de l'UNESCO.
25.11 Je voudrais pour terminer me référer à l'un des grands penseurs de cette planète. Il y a 2500 ans, Confucius  écrivait : "à l'âge d'or du droit, tout le monde n'a plus à l'esprit que les questions d'humanité". Je cite cette phrase pour  tout aussitôt regretter que l'heure de cette époque heureuse n'ait pas encore sonnée. La vocation même de l'UNESCO est
165  de nous rassembler pour que ces "questions d'humanité" soient mises au premier plan, sur le devant de la scène  internationale. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie.
26.1 Le PRESIDENT :   Monsieur le Ministre, je tiens à vous remercier pour votre remarquable intervention. C'est là un nouveau  témoignage d'intérêt du pays hôte pour notre Organisation après le discours extraordinaire prononcé dans cette salle le
15 octobre par le Président Jacques Chirac. Monsieur le ministre …  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
26.2 I read his speech many times and I found it a very intellectually rich statement from a senior politician. In his  speech President Chirac defined our mission here in UNESCO as giving a genuine meaning to the concept of dialogue,  dialogue that is not self-denial but self-explanation. He emphasized that each civilization and each people must be  proud of its achievements. But at the same time each culture and each religion must look critically at itself. His  emphasis lay on the equal dignity of cultures and his clear-cut vision that dialogue is the response to globalization. He  reminded us that respecting others also means listening to them, working with them and refraining from deciding for  them. As far back as 1952, in this very place, Levi-Strauss spoke of the need for collaboration between cultures and  civilizations. I shall keep in my mind all these important remarks and this significant contribution to our deliberations.  Again, I would like to thank you, minister. Now I would like to invite Her Excellency the Honourable Margaret Austin,  Chairperson of the National Commission for UNESCO of New Zealand, to take the floor.
27.1 Ms AUSTIN (New Zealand):  E TE WHARE E TU NEI TENA KOE  E NGA IWI, E NGA KARANGATANGA MAHA  O NGA HAU E WHA  TENEI TE MIHI ATU KI A KAUTOU KATOA   I greet this house, all peoples, all voices, all the many relations of the four winds, I greet you all. And I  congratulate you, Mr President, on your election.
27.2 Mr President, the events of 11 September have impacted on us all. New Zealand condemns all acts of terrorism  and believes UNESCO’s mandate of fostering intercultural dialogue and full democratic empowerment must be  revitalized in response to these changed circumstances.
27.3 New Zealand is pleased to place on record its support for the focus and direction taken by Mr Matsuura for  UNESCO. We are impressed with the wide-ranging consultation and also the determination to ensure that, once made,  decisions remain in place. Zero nominal growth budgets require discipline and impose constraint but New Zealand  argues that if programmes are focused on priorities and pursued cooperatively through partnerships and other linkages,  and infrastructure costs are controlled, UNESCO will be more effective and more results-oriented.
27.4 New Zealand is entirely in tune with the principle of decentralization and our place as a Pacific nation. We  welcome the Director-General’s commitment to the strengthening of the capacity of cluster offices to enable them to  respond more effectively to the priority needs of Member States. We remind the Conference that the constituency of the  Pacific cluster office in Apia spreads across one third of the globe, and has resultant travel and communication  difficulties. We welcome Tokelau’s associate membership of UNESCO and want the Conference to recognize that  increase in Pacific membership and significant expansion in the scope of programme coverage is putting pressure on the  resources of the small Apia office. The Pacific Member States are united in seeking augmentation of the current staffing  complement in the areas of social science, the application of new information and communication technologies and the  promotion of world heritage.
27.5 New Zealand is disappointed at the lack of direct reference to the Focus on the Pacific Action Plan in  document 31 C/5. The Consultation of Pacific Member States held in Nandi in September refined the Action Plan into  priorities with corresponding budget lines. It is a work plan for the UNESCO Apia office for the Pacific to implement  during the coming biennium. New Zealand contends that, in the interests of transparency, document 31C/5 Approved  must incorporate budgetary allocations for programme and personnel for the Apia office and other units in the new  decentralized structure.
27.6 New Zealand entirely supports the channelling of Participation Programme funding to meet the greatest need  of developing Member States. This must include opportunities for developed countries to submit proposals in  partnership with developing countries. This affirms our Pacific way of utilizing this Programme. We emphasize that  both the developing and developed Member States of our sub-region benefit from this process through the sharing of  experience and good practice.
27.7 New Zealand applauds the commitment of the Director-General to the enhancement of the capacity of National  Commissions and to exploring practical measures for increasing the participation of National Commissions in the  execution of programmes. Clarification of their status and their capacity for action is essential to the Organization’s  worldwide visibility and effective programme delivery.
27.8 New Zealand considers the Medium-Term Strategy document a most promising prospectus for the  Organization. For education we endorse specific reference to the recommendations of the International Commission on  Education for the Twenty-first Century being factored into the Strategy along with the inclusion of values and civic  education. We also support adoption of results orientation by the educational institutes.
27.9 In science we endorse the promotion of principles and ethical norms to guide scientific and technological  development. The National Commission’s recent submission to a New Zealand government inquiry into genetic  modification was informed by the Budapest Declaration on Science and the Use of Scientific Knowledge and the  deliberations of the International Bioethics Committee. UNESCO’s commitment to playing a central role in bridging  the divide between traditional knowledge and modern science is welcome. A recent Pacific sub-regional experts  meeting hosted in Wellington acknowledged that modern science and indigenous science must not be treated as  opposing systems but must coexist. The intangible heritage must be protected from improper appropriation and the  revitalization of the transmission of local and indigenous knowledge systems from generation to generation ensured.
27.10 In communication, New Zealand regards the digital divide as the essential ethical question to be addressed by  the international community. The Member States of the Pacific need reliable and universal access to the Internet in  order to participate in the knowledge society. Our concern that UNESCO address this issue in the subregion throughout  the period of the Strategy and the contribution we believe we can make as a technologically advanced nation are the  motivations behind our candidacy for the Intergovernmental Council for the Information for All Programme.
27.11 In culture the New Zealand delegation draws attention to the strategy for cultural development in the Pacific  sub-region developed by the Pacific cultural development in the Pacific subregion developed by the Pacific Cultural  Directors’ Consultation held in Wellington in March. It highlighted the potential application of new information  technology both to the preservation of the cultural heritage and for the networking of cultural personnel across the  Pacific region.
27.12 The development of cross-cutting projects relating to the two cross-cutting themes is a most welcome  innovation provided that UNESCO ensures adequate human resourcing to allow these projects to be effectively  implemented. They are not an afterthought added once the sectoral priorities have exhausted the available human  resources.
27.13 In conclusion, New Zealand supports the priorities spelled out in document 31 C/4 and finds that they are  generally faithfully reflected in programme development. While we welcome results orientation we want to see more  specific strategies, with outcomes that are quantitative as well as qualitative, to assist accountability and reporting  against performance indicators. As we say in Maori, let us be strong.
28. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam, especially for being on time. May I now invite His Excellency Mr Mario  Baccini, Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Italy, to take the floor.
29.1 M. BACCINI (Italie) (discours prononcé en italien ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais tout d'abord vous  féliciter, Monsieur le Président, pour votre élection en cette période où la situation internationale est si complexe et si  délicate. Au nom de mon Gouvernement, je voudrais aussi remercier chaleureusement le Directeur général de tout ce  qu'il a accompli dans la mise en œuvre du programme de réforme de l'Organisation. Monsieur le Directeur général, vous  avez agi avec une détermination, une compétence et une célérité dignes d'éloges.
29.2 Dans un monde où les défis sont de plus en plus difficiles, l'UNESCO devra recouvrer tout le prestige et  l'efficacité qui lui sont nécessaires pour réaliser ses objectifs. D'ores et déjà, une part essentielle des ses programmes  repose sur les contributions volontaires de plusieurs de ses Etats membres - dont l'Italie. Mais toute politique d'austérité  a ses limites. Si nous sommes convaincus que l'UNESCO a un rôle essentiel à jouer dans notre avenir, nous devons dès  à présent envisager de revenir sur la politique actuelle de croissance nominale zéro. Nous aurons toujours besoin de  contributions volontaires. Mais nous sommes conscients que des réductions répétées du budget ne seront pas à terme  sans conséquences pour le bon fonctionnement de l'Organisation.
29.3 L'Italie est convaincue que le monde a besoin de l'UNESCO. Les événements de ces dernières semaines sont là  pour nous le rappeler avec une force tragique. Les attentats contre les Etats-Unis portent atteinte aux valeurs
167  fondamentales sur lesquelles repose notre société. C'est contre ce dessein terroriste qu'il nous faut nous montrer  solidaires, afin d'éviter que de nouvelles fractures viennent s'ajouter à celles qui existent déjà. Mais de quelle manière ?
29.4 Tout d'abord en réaffirmant notre volonté de lutter contre le phénomène du terrorisme. Ensuite, en faisant  preuve de plus de détermination face aux disparités dont nous sommes tous témoins, qu'il s'agisse du développement, de  l'éducation, ou de la culture. La mission de l'UNESCO doit être avant tout d'éliminer de telles disparités, ne serait-ce  que pour priver la violence et l'ignorance de leur terreau. En bref : non à la culture de la haine et de l'intolérance, mais  oui à un engagement accru de l'UNESCO en faveur du dialogue entre les civilisations, qui est en définitive sa raison  d'être. Sans doute cela incitera-t-il les Etats-Unis à réintégrer l'Organisation, dans un avenir que nous souhaitons proche.
29.5 Les priorités de l'Italie coïncident avec celles de l'UNESCO : nous voulons faire de la mondialisation un  instrument de progrès pour tous les peuples, et notamment, pour les plus défavorisés et les plus vulnérables d'entre eux,  afin de les affranchir de ce fléau déshumanisant qu'est la pauvreté. Nous voyons dans l'éducation comme dans la  diffusion de la science des leviers du développement. Nous considérons que la sauvegarde concrète du patrimoine,  beaucoup plus que toute déclaration théorique, est le moyen le plus efficace de préserver cette grande richesse que  constitue notre diversité culturelle.
29.6 L'éducation est fondamentale pour la croissance et l'emploi. En accueillant le Sommet du G-8 à Gênes, nous  avons voulu, avec les autres pays participants, prendre une série d'engagements dans plusieurs directions : remise de la  dette, mesures au niveau national, mise à contribution des institutions financières multilatérales et du secteur privé. Il  conviendrait que la Task Force du G-8 sur le suivi du Forum de Dakar se réunisse en marge des travaux de la  Conférence générale, pour souligner une fois encore le rôle clé de l'UNESCO dans les efforts pour développer  l'éducation partout dans le monde. La réunion du Groupe de haut niveau, convoquée à la fin du mois, et à laquelle nous  participerons en qualité d'observateurs, marquera une étape importante dans l'élaboration de stratégies de lutte contre  l'analphabétisme.
29.7 Nous croyons dans la diffusion de la science en tant qu'instrument de développement et d'élévation de  l'homme. C'est la raison pour laquelle, depuis un quart de siècle, l'Italie alloue aux organismes de formation et de  coopération scientifique de l'UNESCO situés sur son territoire une contribution supérieure au montant de sa  contribution annuelle au budget ordinaire de l'Organisation. Le Centre international de physique théorique et  l'Académie des sciences du tiers monde dont le siège est à Trieste, constituent de véritables points de repère pour bon  nombre de pays en développement. Nous souhaitons en outre que le Bureau régional de l'UNESCO à Venise joue un  rôle moteur dans la coopération entre les pays de l'Europe orientale et des Balkans. Nous remercions à cet égard le  Directeur général d'avoir organisé une table ronde sur la coopération scientifique dans cette région, que l'Italie considère  comme prioritaire.
29.8 Je souhaite enfin rappeler l'engagement de l'Italie dans le domaine de la sauvegarde du patrimoine. L'action de  l'UNESCO en faveur du patrimoine culturel et naturel est fondamentale, parce que chaque peuple, chaque culture voit  dans son patrimoine le symbole de sa propre identité. Or, une identité solidement établie est le plus sûr garant de la  stabilité et de la continuité sur le plan politique. L'Italie a été parmi les fondateurs de ces mécanismes de sauvegarde,  qu'elle continuera de soutenir. Jusqu'à présent, ces mécanismes sont restés crédibles parce que fondés sur des  évaluations scientifiques. Leur succès a conduit à les mettre en oeuvre à l'échelle mondiale. Mais pour être plus  représentatifs et servir les intérêts de toutes les cultures, il importe à la fois de les doter de plus amples ressources et  d'en améliorer la gestion. L'Italie a déjà multiplié par quatre cette année sa contribution annuelle au Fonds du  patrimoine mondial, en vertu d'un accord aux termes duquel elle mettra aussi des techniciens et des experts à la  disposition du Centre pour le patrimoine mondial, pour les besoins de son fonctionnement. En ce qui concerne la  gestion, nous avons pleine confiance dans les compétences professionnelles du personnel du Centre et nous croyons que  la célébration l'an prochain du trentième anniversaire de la Convention de 1972 ouvrira des perspectives nouvelles  quant au rôle du Centre dans le monde.
29.9 Dans le domaine du patrimoine immatériel, l'Italie est fière d'avoir été parmi les premiers à contribuer  concrètement à la réflexion scientifique sur ce concept.
29.10 S'agissant enfin de la sauvegarde du patrimoine subaquatique, le projet de Convention que nous avons sous les  yeux est le résultat d'un travail long, complexe et méritoire mené par des experts gouvernementaux extrêmement  qualifiés. A notre sens, ce projet de Convention est la meilleure réponse possible face à la nécessité impérieuse et  urgente de mettre fin au vide juridique qui subsiste malgré la Convention des Nations Unies sur le droit de la mer  concernant des trésors submergés de grande valeur pour l'humanité tout entière. Le Gouvernement italien souhaite que  cet instrument soit adopté et a l'intention de le signer.
29.11 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, l'Italie approuve les projets de budget biennal et de  Stratégie à moyen terme de l'Organisation. Ils sont le fruit d'un effort collectif précis et sérieux. Plus que leur contenu,  ce qui importe toutefois aujourd'hui, c'est la volonté politique de considérer budgets et programmes à la lumière des
168  défis exceptionnels que nous impose l'actualité. Si l'on ne disposait pas aujourd'hui d'une organisation comme  l'UNESCO il faudrait la créer. Mais elle existe et doit affirmer toujours plus sa vocation à être la voix de la conscience  mondiale. Dans un discours prononcé après le 11 septembre devant des personnalités religieuses chrétiennes et  musulmanes, le Président de la République italienne M. Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, a dit, entre autres : "Je ne sais s'il existe  une civilisation mondiale unique. Ce dont je suis sûr en tout cas, c'est que les différentes civilisations du monde  expriment toutes une même aspiration à une condition humaine meilleure". Nous croyons que cette aspiration est bien  plus qu'une simple formule. Nous souhaitons qu'elle soit la motivation première de l'UNESCO.
30. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Your comments introducing a link between preserving our cultural heritage  and cultural diversity were very important, and I should also like to thank you for the support given by your country  from the scientific centres of Trieste, which are very important for third world countries. Now I should like to invite His  Excellency, Professor Khamidulla Karamatov, the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan. Sir, the floor is  yours.
(31.1) Mr KARAMATOV (Uzbekistan) (Translation from the Russian):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  heads and members of delegations, representatives of international organizations, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of  all, Mr President, to associate myself with the congratulations expressed by all the preceding speakers on your election to  this distinguished position. You have even today repeatedly shown your skilful command over this assembly,  demonstrating that you were elected to that position by virtue of your intellect.
(31.2) For 2,000 years, Uzbekistan has adhered to those UNESCO ideals proclaimed by the Organization’s very name.  We recall the Great Silk Road, and what it stood for: economic, scientific and cultural cooperation, the same principles that  to this day constitute the Organization’s fundamental ideals. We endorse the draft UNESCO declaration on cultural  diversity, since Uzbekistan is a country of many religious faiths and of religious tolerance. Suffice it to recall that ancient  religions appeared in our land 2,700 years ago. Buddhism appeared in Termez and ancient Kushan before the common era,  and archaeological monuments such as Fayyaz-Tepa and Kara-Tepa remain there today. Together with the Japanese  Government, and with the assistance of the distinguished Director-General, Mr Matsuura, we are carrying out  archaeological excavations on these sites. The statuette of Buddha which was discovered there and which dates from about
2000 BCE travelled almost halfway round the world and it has been recognized in Japan itself as a unique piece of  sculpture. Of course, it is possible to shoot up statues of Buddha, as happened at Bamiyan, in Afghanistan, but it is also  possible to conserve them as belonging to all humanity. We adhere to the second of those lines of conduct.
(31.3) A Jewish community emerged in Uzbekistan as early as the first century of the common era, in the fourth century  we already had a Christian sect of the Nestorian persuasion, and in the seventh century Islam reached us. Throughout all  that time, there was not a single interreligious clash on the territory of ancient Uzbekistan, which was then as it is now,  known to many as the land of Samarkand, Bukhara, Termez and Khiva. It might be added that, speaking in our country,  many prominent people, including Director-General Matsuura and the Patriarch of Moscow and All the Russias, Alexei II,  have observed that Uzbekistan is a country of tolerance that may serve as an example of the absence of interreligious  conflicts and wars. Many people from UNESCO who have been to Samarkand in the past three or four years have visited  the tomb of Saint Daniel. Jews and Christians alike go to pay their respects at the tomb, as do Muslims, who call it Dan’yar.  There you have an example of the tolerance that should inspire all peace-loving forces to join their efforts to combat terror  and terrorism.
(31.4) Indeed, the world today has become multipolar, but unfortunately the forces of terror, evil and violence have  emerged at one pole while the action of UNESCO, our Organization, is situated at the other pole, which is the pole of good  and justice. The forces of terror can attack two towers, two skyscrapers in the United States of America, as they did on
11 September. The forces of terror can blow up the Council of Ministers building, as they did in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, on
16 February 1999. They can carry out the kind of evildoing that has just recently been described to us by the Director- General; but there is one thing they cannot do - they cannot destroy in our souls or in our hearts the striving for justice and  for the ideals propagated by our Organization, UNESCO. The Government of Uzbekistan and President Islam Karimov in  person have repeatedly appealed to the international community to join forces against terrorism, and we hope that  UNESCO, as an influential international organization, will make its own contribution to this struggle.
(31.5) Mr President, the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan supports the initiative taken by Director-General of  UNESCO to reform the Organization. In our opinion, UNESCO programmes must be focused on a range of realistic and  feasible priority tasks, such as education for all, the environment and sustainable development, and issues of water use – you are all aware of the Aral Sea problem in my country, and we are grateful to UNESCO for the efforts it has made in  arranging assistance in that respect.
(31.6) Over the past two years, Uzbekistan has hosted a whole range of UNESCO events, such as the twelfth Asia- Pacific regional conference of National Commissions for UNESCO, the regional consultation by the Director-General of  UNESCO on the Draft Programme and Budget of the Organization for 2002-2003, international conferences on the reform  of education systems and seminars on the establishment and development of community education centres.
(31.7) Distinguished delegates, in recent years, under the auspices of UNESCO and with its assistance, various  international anniversaries have been celebrated in Uzbekistan, such as the 545th anniversary of the birth of the Islamic  Renaissance miniaturist, Behzad, the 2,500th anniversary of the founding of the city of Termez and, this year, the 2,700th  anniversary of the compilation of the Avesta, and we hope that our proposal for the celebration of the 2,700th anniversary  of the founding of the city of Shakhrisyabz in 2002 and the 900th anniversary of the birth of the Sufi theologian, our  compatriot Al-Gijduvoni in 2003, will be adopted.
(31.8) The carrying out under the auspices of UNESCO of the now traditional Third International Music Festival “Sharq  Taronalari” drew our attention to the need to preserve for future generations both the tangible and the intangible heritage of  the very ancient and very rich civilizations linked by the Great Silk Road. We were especially pleased by the inclusion of  the folk music traditions of the Boysun District in UNESCO’s list of 19 masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage of  humanity. We welcome the decision by UNESCO to establish special prizes for oral folkloric expression and the new  initiatives by the Director-General regarding the priority to be given to the programmes on the intangible cultural heritage.  In this regard, the Government of Uzbekistan, endorsing UNESCO’s initiative in the field of the preservation and  development of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity, has offered to establish a special prize - the “Samarkand  Taronasi” Prize - for the preservation of masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity, and we now propose  that, as part of the forthcoming fourth Sharq Taronalari festival in Samarkand in August 2003, UNESCO organize an  international conference on the theory and practice of preserving the riches of the living heritage of humanity.
(31.9) We thank UNESCO for its fruitful cooperation and active participation in organizing and holding the  international conference on the results of the first stage of the national programme to train key personnel, which took place  in Tashkent in December 2000.
(31.10) Returning to the subject of tolerance, we would also like to express our special gratitude to the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his personal participation, in September of last year, in the work of the international congress on  interfaith dialogue, held in the spirit of UNESCO, in which representatives of 100 countries took part. We are also grateful  to the Organization for inaugurating a UNESCO Chair of world religions at the Islamic University in Tashkent. We  welcome UNESCO’s activity in the field of education and are extending the network of UNESCO Associated Schools and  UNESCO Chairs in the higher education institutions of our country.
(31.11) Distinguished friends, once upon a time, there was a city called Babylon. Babylon built majestic buildings and  founded a great culture, but when the people of Babylon decided to challenge the gods by building a tower up to the sky,  the gods punished them, so that they began to speak in different tongues and fight amongst themselves. So I make this wish
171  for our Organization: however many languages are spoken here, may we always stay at the same pole, whose name is  justice, good and the worldwide development of humanism, in a word - UNESCO. Thank you for your attention.
32. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I know that your country has been very active during recent years  organizing UNESCO-related events. Before I invite the next speaker, I would like to remind distinguished colleagues  that I am expecting one representative of each geographical group in my room at the end of this meeting to discuss the  draft resolution relating to terrorism. Perhaps we can reach a consensus when members meet in the General Committee  tomorrow morning. The other thing which I should like to point out to the distinguished speakers is that when you are  on the podium, you will find a small flag on the left showing the numbers 8, 7, 6, 5 to 0. I do not know why they have  put it there, but doubtless it has a purpose. May I invite His Excellency Mr Milan Kňažko, distinguished Minister of  Culture of Slovakia, to take the floor. Slovakia, please.
33.1 M. KŇAŽKO (Slovaquie) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne peux qu'être d'accord avec  les orateurs qui ont souligné que la présente session se tient à un moment extrêmement grave pour la culture  internationale, pour l'humanité, pour le monde entier. Les récents attentats perpétrés par des fanatiques aveugles, sans  pitié et sans égards pour leurs victimes civiles innocentes, visaient aussi à saper les principes fondamentaux de la  coexistence pacifique, pour la reconnaissance desquels cette organisation a elle aussi beaucoup fait. Car les programmes  tels que la protection du patrimoine mondial, le programme Mémoire du monde, le programme MOST, ou encore le  programme MAB, unissent réellement la communauté internationale, en ce qu'ils consistent à rechercher et proposer  des solutions communes aux problèmes complexes, et parce qu'ils créent ainsi des liens.
33.2 Depuis les attentats du 11 septembre dernier, la communauté internationale est confrontée à un défi  extrêmement dangereux et apparemment nouveau. Le destin de l'humanité dépendra aussi de la façon dont réagiront les  différents pays qui la composent. C'est à dessein que je parle d'un défi apparemment nouveau, car cela fait un certain  temps déjà que nous en percevons les causes et des manifestations de moindre ampleur. Se pose alors la question de  savoir si nous y avons consacré toute l'attention voulue, si nous avons réfléchi avec une attention suffisante aux  méthodes et aux outils qui pourraient nous aider à gérer cette menace.
33.3 En effet, il ne s'agit pas seulement de se défendre et de réprimer les fanatiques et les rebelles qui ont commis  ces récents attentats criminels, et qui se préparaient probablement à en commettre d'autres. Il importe également  d'éliminer le milieu sociopsychologique propice aux idées et à l'esprit extrémistes dans lequel ont grandi les fanatiques  et les désespérés qui, aujourd'hui, ne reculent devant rien pour imposer leurs conceptions et leurs objectifs, fût-ce au  prix de leur propre destruction. L'élimination définitive des multiples causes de l'extrémisme - parmi lesquelles figurent  aussi les fortes disparités économiques et sociales entre les différentes régions du monde - est aussi importante que les  tâches complexes de la communauté internationale et de ses institutions, y compris l'UNESCO.
33.4 Certes, l'UNESCO n'est pas une organisation de défense, ni une organisation économique; son champ d'action  se limite aux seuls domaines de la culture, de la science et de l'éducation, mais ce sont précisément les institutions  comme la nôtre qui sont appelées à jouer un rôle important dans la gestion à long terme des situations qui, dans  certaines régions du monde, suscitent, au sein d'une partie de la population, un esprit et une attitude extrémistes,  poussant certains de leurs membres à des actes désespérés.
33.5 Ce à quoi il nous faut réfléchir durant la présente session, comme dans les autres réunions organisées par  l'UNESCO, c'est à des solutions immédiates et à plus long terme. La participation des différents pays à la mise en  oeuvre des décisions que nous allons adopter - et j'ai la conviction qu'ils s'y emploieront tous avec la même  détermination et la même opiniâtreté - dépendra de leur taille et de leur potentiel humain. En ce qui concerne mon pays,  la République slovaque, je voudrais mentionner un certain nombre d'activités et de propositions qui, selon nous,  pourraient faciliter ces efforts communs pour maîtriser les causes mêmes de l'extrémisme.
33.6 Les événements tragiques récents nous ont une nouvelle fois rappelé que les témoignages des guerres, des  génocides, de la terreur et de la violence passés ont une place légitime dans la mémoire de l'humanité, car ces  témoignages nous mettent en garde contre des éléments qui, en soi, ne sont assurément pas des exemples positifs du  patrimoine culturel. Je propose donc de mettre sur pied au sein de l'UNESCO un mécanisme chargé d'identifier, de  documenter et d'analyser les événements, les lieux et les édifices qui sont inscrits à jamais dans le livre noir de  l'humanité. La République slovaque soumettra une proposition tendant à l'élaboration et à l'adoption d'une "Convention  de l'UNESCO sur le message des victimes des guerres, de la terreur et de la violence" qui comporterait l'établissement  d'une liste mondiale des événements, des lieux et des édifices constituant un patrimoine inhumain et anticulturel  ("Mémento de l'inhumanité"). Les Etats parties à cette convention auraient l'obligation de présenter à leurs propres  populations ces événements, ces lieux et ces édifices comme des exemples dissuasifs des errements inhumains des  civilisations. La Slovaquie est prête à fournir des experts pour constituer, par exemple au sein du Centre du patrimoine  mondial, un groupe de travail chargé d'établir un tel document .
33.7 Comme toujours, cependant, les modèles positifs occupent une place déterminante dans l'éducation, dans la  formation et dans la transmission de principes moraux. Au début de mon intervention, j'ai cité quelques-uns des  programmes que l'UNESCO a menés jusqu'ici avec succès et qu'il convient de poursuivre - moyennant quelques  ajustements dictés par les changements récents survenus dans le monde. La République slovaque, avec le soutien de  l'UNESCO, organise elle aussi des programmes destinés à promouvoir les échanges culturels internationaux, ainsi que  la connaissance et le rapprochement mutuels des cultures. Il y a quelques semaines, nous avons inauguré la
18e Biennale de l'illustration de Bratislava, une grande exposition-concours international d'illustrations de livres pour  enfants et adolescents, à laquelle participent des artistes du monde entier. Parmi ses manifestations connexes, je citerai  la Biennale du cinéma d'animation de Bratislava, un festival international du film d'animation. L'un et l'autre festivals  visent, en fin de compte, la formation culturelle et morale des jeunes générations. Pour promouvoir cette idée, nous  préparons un nouveau projet - la Biennale Orbis Pictus - un concours international d'illustrations de manuels scolaires.  Nous le faisons convaincus que la formation que reçoivent les enfants dès l'âge scolaire peut influer de manière décisive  sur leur attitude dans la vie, de sorte qu'il est important que cette formation se déroule dans un esprit d'empathie et de  compréhension à l'égard des personnes de couleur, de langue ou de convictions différentes.
33.8 Mesdames, Messieurs, la République slovaque participe avec d'autres pays de l'Europe centrale aux autres  programmes majeurs de l'UNESCO, dont nous comptons parler dans les différentes commissions ainsi qu'en plénière, à  la session de clôture.
33.9 En guise de conclusion, je voudrais exprimer ma conviction que les travaux de la présente session seront, dans  cette période difficile, une source d'inspiration pour tout ce qui touche à la culture, à la science et à l'éducation, venant  ainsi renforcer la compréhension et la coopération entre les Etats et en particulier entre leurs citoyens respectifs, c'est-à- dire entre les êtres humains. Tant il est vrai que servir, c'est la vocation même de cette organisation qui est la nôtre.  Merci de votre attention.
34. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Our next speaker is His Excellency Mr Pedro Rivero Mercado,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Bolivia to UNESCO. Sir, you have the floor.
(35.1) Mr RIVERO MERCADO (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish):   The Minister of Education, Ms Maya Anaya, sends friendly greetings from the heart of Bolivia to the members  attending this Conference, and also expresses her sincere good wishes for the success of its conclusions. She should have  been here to express her concerns in person, but circumstances beyond her control deprived her of that satisfaction. Special  greetings also go to the President of the General Conference for the elegant and energetic way in which  he is conducting  these important deliberations.
(35.2) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board and distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, the 31st session of the General Conference of  UNESCO deserves special attention from my country, because of the importance it attaches to themes relating to cultural  diversity and multilingualism. It could not be otherwise, given that Bolivia is par excellence a multi-ethnic, multicultural  and multilingual country, among whose heroic and indomitable people nearly 60% speak a language other than Spanish, or  combine the latter with an indigenous and age-old language. My country is inhabited by more than 32 peoples of different  origins and traditions. As a result, not only are cultural diversity and multilingualism aspects of our everyday lives, but they  also constitute social conditions in whose context we have to think imaginatively about our development and future. It is  precisely this that Bolivia has been striving to do since it achieved democracy at the beginning of the 1980s. With the  attainment of that historic milestone, we recognized indigenous people as new social actors whom we had ignored in the  past, despite the fact that they constituted a majority in the country.
(35.3) But already, years previously, the grass-roots organizations representing indigenous people and small farmers had  been demanding, through their quiet acts of rebellion, the right to education in their own languages and based on their  ancestral cultures. In that context, intercultural and bilingual projects of an experimental nature were established in the field  of education in order to cater for linguistic and cultural diversity, and led to what would become the Bolivian Educational  Reform. This 31st session of the General Conference is going to recreate everyday and novel facets of cultural diversity and  multilingualism; of the impassioned adventure of recognizing or restoring to the indigenous peoples the identity in whose  shadow that intermingling of races took place, at least in the part of brown-skinned America of which Bolivia is a proud  and active example. In consequence, Bolivia rightly feels, at this great Conference, that it is holding discussions in a  familiar environment, full of kindness and consideration.
(35.4) Allow me to make a few more remarks within the time at my disposal. Last March, Bolivia hosted the seventh  meeting of the Committee of PROMEDLAC, a key instrument for education in the region during the next 15 years. The  meeting was a success, and its conclusions are serving as the guidelines for the theme of education in Latin America and  the Caribbean. The spirit of PROMEDLAC Cochabamba should come to life again at this Conference, which is the rallying  point for the expression of universal thought.
(35.5) Our Government takes great interest in the scientific study of the El Niño phenomenon, whose annual occurrence  causes grave damage to the environment. We have therefore taken action to ensure that UNESCO launches an initiative for  the management and control of this phenomenon in a preventive and coordinated multidisciplinary framework. The  Director-General has made outstanding efforts, from every point of view, to strengthen UNESCO’s presence in Bolivia,  with an office in the city of La Paz, in view of the outstanding services that the Organization is providing.
(35.6) I shall end this brief intervention with some deeply felt comments to add to what is a universal preoccupation. We  ushered in the new century with golden hopes, convinced that the surprising scientific and technological advances that had  just been achieved would be the point of departure for improving the quality of life of men and women throughout the  world and ensuring the harmonious and mutually supportive survival of the species. It is possible, we reasoned in an  optimistic mode, with all our senses alive with hope, now that the geographical distances have been prodigiously shortened,  that the impressive speed of communications has put almost all of us, on a daily basis, at a mere stone’s throw from one  another, it is possible that we shall see, on every street corner, the proffered hand of a supportive and faithful friend and a  tender and convincing expression of peace and love. But the events of 11 September shook us all and continue painfully to  shake us with their homicidal and inhuman force, notwithstanding our different creeds and ideologies, showing us to our  shame that Homo sapiens is full of unspeakable treachery, taking advantage of technological and scientific achievements to  draw near to others, to be sure, but only with the sinister intention of cruelly and mercilessly planting a sharp, cunning and  treacherous dagger in other people’s backs. In this way, we have used the optimistic and stupendous fruits of human  intelligence not to secure redemption from our spiritual and material poverty but, on the contrary, to sacrifice ourselves on  the altar of the barbarism that we thought we had left behind.
(35.7) Faced with this distressing reality, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the time is now ripe for a change of  strategy. Let us leave aside discursive attitudes, declamatory tones, lavish time-wasting in ceremonies and courtly gestures,  and let each and every one of us, in the threat-laden atmosphere in which we live out our lives, assume the unavoidable  mission of builders of a new order, clearing the ground, with resolve and in sustained and courageous action, of all the  manifestations of violence, terrorism and the murder of the just and the unjust alike. Faced with cruelty and extermination,  let us become aware and accept the fact that destruction, confrontation and murder, in the final and fatal analysis, cannot be  eliminated by speeches, social gatherings or treaties signed in Versailles. Thank you very much for the attention with which  you have honoured me during this impassioned and anxious plea for peace and love. Thank you very much.
36. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now invite His Excellency, Mr Imangali Tasmagambetov, distinguished  Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. You have the floor, sir.
(37.1) Mr TASMAGAMBETOV (Kazakhstan) (Translation from the Russian):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, to add my voice  to the many congratulations you have received on your election to this honoured position, and to express my conviction that  the tasks before the General Conference will be successfully completed. UNESCO, like the United Nations as a whole, is  now at a turning-point in its development in the aftermath of recent events, when the principles of the defence of peace and  dialogue among civilizations have been shown to be more relevant than ever. Mr President, we in Kazakhstan were shaken  by the cruel terrorist acts of 11 September in the United States of America that took the lives of thousands of innocent  people. Kazakhstan fully endorses the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council condemning this barbaric action  and joins the call contained in them to take the effective measures required to combat terrorism.
(37.2) Kazakhstan, lying in the very heart of Eurasia, is striving for peace, harmony and understanding among religions  and peoples, as evidenced by the September visit of His Holiness Pope John Paul II to Kazakhstan at the invitation of our  President, Nursultan Nazarbayev. The Pope’s call for mutual understanding among religions, his appeal that no clash of  civilizations should be allowed to occur, rang out from the land of Kazakhstan. We fully support that call. Our multi-ethnic  country will always aim to be an example of harmony, the joint development of cultures and the equality of all peoples and
176  nations. It will always be a place for all cultures, all religions, all languages. The principle of rapprochement between West  and East, Europe and Asia, Islam and Christianity, chimes with our national principle.
(37.3) Although it has entered a new millennium, the world, unfortunately, has not escaped the problems of the last one,  such as war, local and ethnic conflict, hunger, disease, poverty and ecological disasters. In order to counter these and new  threats, the President of Kazakhstan has taken the initiative in convening a conference on measures of confidence-building  and reciprocity in Asia; in November of this year, the leaders of 16 Asian governments will gather in Almaty to discuss and  coordinate their views on how to resolve the both current and long-term problems, involved in building a stable peace in  this part of the world.
(37.4) Mr President, the years since Kazakhstan’s independence have been marked by fruitful cooperation with  UNESCO. Indeed, it was in Kazakhstan in 1992 that the first seminar on promoting independent media was held, and the  resulting Almaty Declaration has become one of UNESCO’s basic standard-setting documents in the sphere of freedom of  expression. The first international seminars on scientific cooperation regarding the problems of the Aral Sea, the Caspian  Sea and the former nuclear test site of Semipalatinsk were held in our country. Projects on the introduction of new  information technologies have been started.
(37.5) I would like to express support for the objectives set for UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. One  of the most relevant tasks for UNESCO action remains the use of knowledge for social change. In that connection, I would  like to point out that the wide-ranging reform of education in Kazakhstan, the implementation of a national education  strategy, deserves special attention from UNESCO.
(37.6) We endorse the inclusion in the draft Medium-Term Strategy of the proposal for maintaining and improving  human security in the context of sustainable development and protection of the environment. One of the first acts of the  President of Kazakhstan after independence was the decree on the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site. In August  of this year, Kazakhstan celebrated the tenth anniversary of this significant event. An international conference was held in  Almaty on that occasion with the participation of some of the world’s leading political figures. Speaking at the conference,  the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, rightly pointed out that the nuclear tests in Kazakhstan had had  “consequences for the health of the population and for the environment [that] will be felt for generations”. The damage is  doubly serious in that the Semipalatinsk region, the region that suffered the nuclear tests, is one of the historic centres of  Kazakh statehood and culture. In this connection, we appeal to international organizations, including UNESCO, not to  slacken their efforts to mobilize the assistance of the international community in rehabilitating the Semipalatinsk region.
(37.7) Mr President, among the tasks set forth in the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, Kazakhstan wholly  supports such objectives as promoting the drafting and implementation of standard-setting instruments in the cultural field.  The cultural heritage is one of the most important elements of identity, and is rapidly becoming a key factor in economic  growth and social cohesion. Kazakhstan and Central Asia have a rich history, a distinguishing feature of which is the  combination of nomadic and settled civilizations. The Great Silk Road traversed these lands, joining East and West, by way  of ancient cities some of which are already inscribed on UNESCO’s World Heritage List. Kazakhstan shares UNESCO’s  view regarding the need to expand the programme on the intangible cultural heritage. We support the proposal relating to  the programme Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity and the activation of the Living Human  Treasures project. We welcome the programme to preserve cultural diversity and promote pluralism and dialogue among  cultures and civilizations. By virtue of its geographical location, the Kazakh steppes have historically been a crossroads of  various civilizations, cultures and religions. To this day, more than 100 ethnic groups live in Kazakhstan, and we are  determined to preserve this unique diversity.
(37.8) Mr President, allow me to state my firm conviction that the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the  Kazakhstan National Commission for UNESCO will do everything necessary to develop and strengthen cooperation  between Kazakhstan and UNESCO in the context of the reform of the Organization and the resolutions of the General  Conference. Thank you for your attention.
38. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Our next speaker is Her Excellency Madam Elissavet Papazoi,  distinguished Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Greece. We are waiting to hear your statement, Madam.
39.1 Ms PAPAZOI (Greece):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you warmly on your well-deserved election and wish  you every success in your important task. I would also like to express my appreciation to the Chairperson of the  Executive Board, for the excellent work which she has done. Last, but not least, I would like to extend my thanks to the  Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Matsuura, whom we recently had the pleasure of receiving in Greece, and to the  Secretariat for their dedicated and successful efforts to prepare and organize this General Conference so well.
39.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the first UNESCO General Conference of the new millennium is taking place in the  shadow of the tragic events of 11 September in the United States of America and their sequel in Afghanistan. The  terrorist attacks have posed a strong challenge to the international community concerning the issue of security and the  possible wider political consequences. We are dealing with a new reality of increased uncertainty and instability, which
177  is questioning our democratic institutions, our human civilization and our humanitarian values. On 11 September we  witnessed the violent expression of a mentality that undermines the very notion of civilization. Against this culture of  terror, we juxtapose the cultural richness and the positive vision of our societies.
39.3 As culture represents our collective memory, our identity, an accumulation of mentalities and concepts, it has a  very complex nature, full of controversies. But culture can also be used as a banner to project differentiation or even as  a vehicle to polarize people with false dilemmas of the type “either we or they”. This is why the discussion upon the  future of civilizations and the dialogue among cultures lies at the very core of the effective countering of terrorism and  policy-making in this context.
39.4 Since “wars begin in the minds of men” and “it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed”, as it is magnificently stated in the UNESCO Constitution, education and culture are the crucial areas  where our own identity, our relationship to other societies and the prospects of any society will be tested. In this sense,  UNESCO has to move forward. The Declaration on Cultural Diversity is an important step in this direction as it might  serve as a source of authoritative reference for public policy. Besides the Declaration on Cultural Diversity, we must  stand for the clear and uncompromising affirmation of a set of ecumenical values that transcend time, place and socio- cultural realities and which will be respected at all costs: respect for human life, respect for human dignity, and  tolerance.
39.5 Respect for the value of human life and dignity cannot be taken for granted. It is being deeply challenged, if  not undone, by social realities of desperation where poverty and social marginalization are the norm. It is our duty – and  today’s celebration of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty serves as a strong reminder – to reflect on the  vicious circle relating terrorism and fanaticism of all kinds to poverty, exploitation, long-standing injustice and social  inequalities. We should not miss the fact that terrorism, discrimination and fanaticism of various forms thrive in  environments of persisting regional conflict. There are many examples in the eastern Mediterranean and in our region,  the Balkan peninsula. Greece is a pole of stability and cooperation in its periphery. My country has been a staunch  supporter of peace, democratization, economic development and eradication of disparities in the area.
39.6 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO is today facing one of its biggest challenges since its inception: the need to  play a decisive role towards the establishment of a culture of peace. Violence and hatred are not inherent qualities.  Proper education can prove the most effective tool to promote open, multi-ethnic and multi-cultural societies. Greece, a  founding member of UNESCO and a country that prides itself in its active and consistent support of the goals and  endeavours of the Organization, pledges to continue, with even greater fervour, to do its fair share in this international  effort.
39.7 Today the Greek Government has played an active role in promoting the convergence of religions. Religious  leaders should offer their clarity, their calm and firm response to those who use religion to advance their own ends, by  means of violence and terrorism. Along the same lines, Greece today promotes the idea of an Olympic Truce,  successfully implemented during the Olympic Games in ancient Greece, which we aspire to revive with the active  support of the United Nations, starting with the upcoming Olympic Games in 2004 in Athens. Olympic Truce involves  dialogue among cultures and nations to promote a multicultural world and peace between societies to make the world  much more democratic and humane.
39.8 We also fully support UNESCO’s efforts to promote multilingualism and universal access to cyberspace. On  education, we applaud the leading role with which UNESCO was entrusted at the Dakar Forum: Education for all and  all of UNESCO for Education should be our slogan. I should also say that Greece has actively participated in the  enormous effort which led to the preparation of the draft convention concerning the protection of the underwater  cultural heritage. In view of the importance of this draft Convention, no effort should be spared to arrive at a text that  will win worldwide acceptance.
39.9 Allow me to turn to an issue of particular importance for Greece, concerning the return of the Parthenon  Marbles. What we are seeking is the restoration of the unity and integrity of this unique monument which inspired the  logo of UNESCO. We are confident that the initiatives of the Director-General will encourage discussions between the  governments of Greece and our partner and friend the United Kingdom, until a mutually agreeable solution is reached to  the benefit of our cooperation in the field of culture. I should perhaps mention the favourable public opinion in the  United Kingdom itself. Hopefully, the return of the Marbles will have been realized by 2004, when Greece will host the  Olympic Games and the New Acropolis Museum will be completed.
39.10 Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure we all agree that the role of UNESCO is of utmost importance in this new  reality of increased uncertainty and instability. It is time for deliberation and strategic thinking since UNESCO has to  face increased responsibilities and important challenges: how to develop an ecumenical cultural policy which protects  diversity, promotes human values and avoids the danger of a clash of civilizations; how to turn the events of
11 September from an inhibiting factor to a source of concerted efforts for an even closer and more systematic dialogue
178  among all cultures; how to transform culture from a source of or even a pretext for conflict to a vehicle for peace and  mutual understanding. There are no ready-made answers to these huge challenges. Let me express the hope that the  work of the 31st session of the General Conference, the first of the third millennium, will be inspired by this approach  and conducted accordingly.
40. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. Your country can undoubtedly play a very important role in enhancing the  dialogue among civilizations and cultures, their philosophical and scientific schools of thought which were initiated in  your country some 2000 years ago and which over the centuries have created a common language among thinkers,  intellectuals of both the Islamic and Christian worlds. And I am sure that, having that heritage, your country can play a  major symbolic role in bringing people together. Thank you very much. May I invite His Excellency Dr Nicolas Lynch,  distinguished Minister of Education of Peru, to take the floor.
(41.1) Mr LYNCH (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):   On behalf of the Government of Peru, I should like to begin this brief statement by greeting the President of the
31st session of the General Conference and Ambassador Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO, and also  take the opportunity to congratulate him on the efforts he has been making to strengthen our Organization.
(41.2) The new Peruvian Government, headed by Dr Alejandro Toledo, intends to meet its international commitments  and to support the development of a community of States capable of promoting the collective interests of humanity and the  common values underpinning the peaceful and respectful coexistence of peoples. Such is the essence of the message that I  bring to you today, as the delegate of a country which has over two decades suffered the ravages of terrorism and the ills of  a dictatorship. For this reason, we cannot but repudiate any act of terror, whatever its apparent motive or cause. It is  precisely within these parameters that the present Peruvian Government is carrying out its educational and cultural policies,  in full conformity with the principles laid down in the Dakar Declaration, and on the basis of full recognition of the  multicultural and multi-ethnic character of our country.
(41.3) As has been said, Peru is now in the process of emerging from a dictatorship which manipulated consciences,  using to this end, and without the least scruple, both the education system and the public and private mass media. But we  are now experiencing a time of hope because we were able to do away with authoritarianism and elect a new democratic  government, which has begun to address the tasks of economic and political reconstruction of the republic. To that end, the  elected government decided to declare education one of the priorities of its action. But this is not an abstract and general  declaration. It is one which is based on an evaluation of the conditions which led to the democratic bankruptcy of the past  decade, and aimed at showing that a very important cause of that bankruptcy was the fragility of our democratic institutions,  in particular our citizenship status, which was mostly restricted to the written declarations of laws and constitutions. This  led to the fashioning, in historical terms, of a republic emptied of citizens, with the latter thus readily falling prey to any  adventurers bent on taking over power. In this situation, we believe that education should play a fundamental role in  completing the transition to democracy and rebuilding our republican institutions, with these tasks being accomplished  through the promotion of mass democratic participation. We have therefore made it the strategic objective of the  educational process to train citizens with the capacity to produce well-being. The school should be conceived of as a space  for fundamental democratization, involving the training of subjects with rights who are capable of making a living in a  worthy manner.
(41.4) To achieve this strategic objective, we decided to reactivate public schooling. It is through this type of schooling  that 85% of Peruvians, most of whom are poor or very poor, gain access to education. In this way, low-quality public  schooling becomes a mechanism for maintaining a gap between the social groups and excluding the majority, just one more  way of aggravating social inequality. The reactivation of public schooling should signify its conversion from a vertical  institution in which the pupils are just dumped to a place for the democratic integration of the population in which  individuals begin to come into their own as full members of society. But, above all, this reactivation should mean coming
180  to grips with the most serious problem of the Peruvian education system, and public education in particular, which is that of  the quality of education. Peru now has one of the lowest quality indices of Latin America, at about 450 to 600 class  attendance hours a year. To overcome this, we have established a set of priorities in respect of primary education, rural  education and secondary education which we hope will enable us to begin to improve the present situation within a period  of five years. We are likewise setting up the appropriate machinery for evaluating the service that we provide.
(41.5) This outlook for citizenship training through education would be seriously restricted, however, without a  multicultural and multilingual focus enabling education to promote and ensure respect for the cultural diversity of pupils,  students and teachers. To this end, we are also promoting an intercultural bilingual curriculum that we aim to provide as an  option throughout the education system, to serve as a way of asserting the cultural identity of the pupils and students. In the  same way, with respect to the training of people to become citizens of the twenty-first century which has just begun, such  persons should be able to gain access to the information society of the globalized world. The mere mention of any bid to  provide this access in a country with such scant resources as Peru would seem to be an act of extraordinary audacity. We  nonetheless believe that we must also meet this challenge, failing which the “digital divide” will obstruct future efforts in  terms of the production and application of knowledge. A few days ago we therefore launched what is known as the Plan  Huascarán, which is a project for the telematic interconnection of urban and rural education centres.
(41.6) But all these programmes cannot materialize if we fail to pay attention to one of the main actors in education: the  teacher. As soon as we took over the Ministry of Education in Peru, we put into effect an “open-door” policy vis-à-vis the  teaching profession, an attitude which is very significant in a country where, during the dictatorship of the 1990s, the  teachers’ union was not given a hearing for over five years and a policy of confrontation with the union and exclusion of  the teachers from educational decision-making was applied. We are also engaged in a programme of upgrading the teaching  profession, the emphasis being on establishing a public teaching career based on the assessment of the professional merits  of the teacher.
(41.7) Lastly, we believe that a programme of change such as the one we have advanced will not be possible unless we  foster an extensive social and political contract which includes both the actors of the education process and responsible  political parties, both ruling and opposition. To that end, we are proposing the establishment of a National Education  Council as the consensus-building forum for changing the policies of a minister and a government into enduring State  policies providing the education system in Peru with genuine sustainability. This will be the only way in which we can  forge the necessary political will to overcome the state of paralysis of our education system.
(41.8) To conclude, I wish to reaffirm the commitment of my country to the UNESCO project, a project which can only  be put into effect if we succeed in pushing back the limits of individual freedom and respect for differences, and if, at the  same time, we consolidate democracy within each country and the principles of equity in relations between nations and  States. Thank you very much.
42. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I should like now to invite His Excellency the Honourable Tan Sri Dato’  Seri Musa Bin Mohamad, Minister of Education of Malaysia, to take the floor.
43.1 Mr MUSA BIN MOHAMAD (Malaysia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Malaysian delegation, let me take this opportunity to congratulate  you, Mr President, on your election as President of the General Conference at its 31st session.
43.2 Ladies and gentlemen, for the past 56 years, we have gathered every other year to renew our pledge to promote  cooperation and collaboration in the various fields of UNESCO’s competence among the 189 Member States that  comprise UNESCO. I wonder if we should mark this occasion with just yet another renewal of pledges. Perhaps we  should also ask ourselves what more UNESCO needs to do in order to remain relevant and viable in meeting the global  challenges of the twenty-first century. UNESCO comprises Member States that range across a broad socio-economic  spectrum whose economies are at different stages of development. It goes without saying that one of the most important  challenges facing the Organization is how to narrow the economic gulf between UNESCO’s Member States. It is indeed  unfortunate that the divide between the developed and the developing countries is constantly widening. Unless we are  able to bridge this divide, I am afraid the burden of poverty and inequality among Member States will continue to  widen. In order to address this divide, Malaysia strongly believes that the answer lies in providing high-quality  education that is relevant, effective and efficient. In a knowledge-based global economy, high-quality education holds  the key to future prosperity. E-commerce and the K-economy have made new demands on education to meet the human  resources needs of the future. There is a massive need for knowledge workers who will form the backbone of future  national economies. These knowledge workers have to possess high technical skills, flexibility and tolerance. The  effectiveness and efficiency of our education systems in producing such knowledge workers will undoubtedly become  one of the criteria for judging the quality of the education they provide. In this regard, Malaysia endorses UNESCO’s  efforts to furnish universal access to primary education, in particular through the Dakar Framework for Action, and also  through the use of education to eradicate poverty, to enhance capacity-building in science, as well as to enhance cultural  diversity as outlined in the Medium-Term Strategy. We are pleased to note that, guided by the principles of anticipation,
181  adaptation and concentration, UNESCO will do more to respond to the global challenges in education in order to meet  the expectations and needs of Member States.
43.3 The second challenge facing UNESCO is: how to remain vigilant vis-à-vis the abuses of globalization. It is  argued that globalization will lead to a greater flow of trade, as well as of investment and finance. I agree that  globalization must not be at the expense of countries that lack the financial and physical resources to compete in an  open market. I am not against globalization, but I firmly believe that its merits have been inflated and its risks recklessly  downplayed. Unchecked, globalization allows predatory capitalism to rear its ugly head and devour everything that we  have worked so hard to build and maintain - our economic infrastructure, our social institutions and our cultural  identity. The experience of the recent Asian financial crisis has sensitized us to such dangers of globalization. Managing  globalization will be one of our greatest challenges in the twenty-first century because its effects are not restricted to the  economic domain, but reach directly to the question of the sovereignty and self-determination of nation states. There is  a need to have a global blueprint for greater cooperative management of global affairs. Such a blueprint will ensure that  globalization is more inclusive, and that its benefits are more equally spread among all nation states. The ultimate goal  of this blueprint is to reverse the trend of increasing economic inequalities among nation states, and to reduce political  polarization and social disintegration. We have to recognize the fact that global integration can only begin if we share a  common destiny.
43.4 The third and more serious challenge is the eradication of international terrorism. Malaysia takes a serious  view of the way that international terrorism has made its presence felt in the world today. The use of terrorism and  suicide squads, supposedly to further the cause of political or religious struggle, should not be the justification for any  terrorist attacks similar to those perpetrated in New York and Washington. Nobody has the right to resort to violence  without honour and without regard for innocent human lives, whatever may be the justifications, and whoever may be  the perpetrators. Malaysia supports the call for an international coalition to rid the world of international terrorism  through the implementation of an international convention. However, the only way for such global intervention to be  accepted without reservation, especially in the Muslim world, would be for it to be sanctioned by the United Nations.  To date, the United Nations has still not been able to reach agreement concerning the crucial question: who is a  terrorist? At the heart of the disagreement is the politically charged belief that one nation’s terrorist is often another’s  freedom fighter. In the wake of the 11 September attacks in New York and Washington, Malaysia would like to see the  speedy adoption of the proposed convention on international terrorism. Malaysia would also like to propose a  permanent dialogue between Western and Islamic countries as a means to promote a better understanding of each  other’s culture and civilization. UNESCO can contribute to this goal by enhancing the AMAR-UNESCO Standing  Conference Programme. It is hoped that these Standing Conferences will be able to explore the roots and developments  of Islamic and Western civilizations in order to uncover the hidden issues and sources of anger, to dispel prejudice, to  identify and promote common features, to work for peace and, most important of all, to promote continuous dialogue  through a permanent forum that will allow a culture of peace to prevail throughout the world and at every level of  society.
43.5 Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO’s mission to contribute to peace and security in the world by promoting  collaboration among nations through education, science, culture and communication has become more relevant than  ever. However, for UNESCO to pursue this mission successfully in the face of today’s global challenges, we may need  to do yet more. We shall need to enhance its visibility and to respond to challenges that may otherwise slowly and  surely drive UNESCO into oblivion. While we recognize the extent of the challenges that UNESCO has to face in the  twenty-first century, there is no reason for pessimism. I am convinced that if we remain strong and united, and achieve  greater cooperation and collaboration among all Member States, we shall together overcome all obstacles. Thank you.
44. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. As you mentioned, AMAR-UNESCO organizes many conferences on  dialogue between Islam and Europe and we hope that will continue. I now invite His Excellency Mr Amani Michel  N’guessan, distinguished Minister of National Education of Côte d’Ivoire, to take the floor. Excellency, please.
45.1 M. N'GUESSAN (Côte d'Ivoire) :   Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables invités, Mesdames et  Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d'abord d'adresser au nom de mon pays, la Côte d'Ivoire, mes chaleureuses félicitations à  vous, Monsieur le Président, ainsi qu'aux membres de votre Bureau.
45.2 Les travaux de cette 31e session qui se déroulent au début du troisième millénaire nous invitent à nous  interroger, à faire des bilans pour fixer de nouveaux repères. Il y a 50 ans l'UNESCO avait eu à sa création pour mission  "d'élever les défenses de la paix sur le fondement de la solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité", en favorisant le  partage de ses biens et en assurant des valeurs de liberté et de justice. Qu'en est-il exactement aujourd'hui ? Aujourd'hui  plus que jamais la paix dans le monde est toujours menacée, le partage des biens de l'humanité est toujours inégal, le
182  fossé entre les riches et les pauvres se creuse davantage, l'intolérance à tous les niveaux se développe. L'idéal de  solidarité est encore bien loin ! Comment l'atteindre ?
45.3 Monsieur le Président, il faut agir ! Pour pouvoir agir et agir vite, il faut relever les nouveaux défis qui nous  menacent, il faut revoir les valeurs culturelles et morales, réadapter les conceptions et les comportements pour éviter des  événements tels que ceux du 11 septembre. Mais qui doit agir ? Qui mieux que l'UNESCO a pour idéal la justice, la  tolérance, la solidarité, la culture de la paix, le respect de la diversité culturelle ? Face aux derniers développements de  l'actualité, cette mission de l'UNESCO doit être réaffirmée et renforcée pour faire reculer le cycle infernal de la  violence. C'est pourquoi la Côte d'Ivoire apprécie les efforts inlassables d'apaisement et de conciliation déployés par  l'Organisation des Nations Unies par l'intermédiaire de son Secrétaire général, de S. Exc. M. Kofi Annan, dans les  foyers de violence  : la Sierra Leone, le Nigéria, la région des Grands Lacs, etc. Ses efforts viennent fort heureusement  d'être couronnés par le prix Nobel de la Paix. La Côte d'Ivoire voudrait lui rendre un vibrant hommage.
45.4 La Côte d'Ivoire a toujours été heureuse de s'associer et de participer aux grandes actions de l'UNESCO, car  elle aussi voudrait faire de la culture de la paix non pas un idéal hors de portée mais une réalité vivante. En témoigne  l'important Forum de réconciliation nationale qui se tient à Abidjan, pour permettre à tous les fils de ce pays de se  retrouver après les évènements tragiques qu'il ont connus ces dernières années.
45.5 Je ne peux m'empêcher de saluer Monsieur le Directeur général pour le féliciter de l'oeuvre accomplie afin de  mettre l'UNESCO sur de nouveaux rails pour une meilleure efficacité, pour une autre dimension. Il s'agit de donner à  l'UNESCO une meilleure visibilité par l'action de ses bureaux et antennes à travers le monde, qui doivent chaque jour  informer, prévenir et agir en touchant de près chaque fois aux interrogations et aux angoisses de notre temps.  L'UNESCO ne peut plus se contenter d'être perçue uniquement comme un forum intellectuel. Sa mission d'éducation  devra être accentuée sous tous ses aspects.
45.6 Monsieur le Président, le projet de programme et de budget contenu dans le document 31 C/5 nous donne une  vision de l'UNESCO pour 2002-2003. Que faut-il en penser dans le contexte international actuel ? L'UNESCO s'est fixé  des priorités pour marquer son action durant l'exercice biennal 2002-2003. Quelles sont ces priorités ? En ce qui  concerne le grand programme I sur l'éducation, le Forum mondial sur l'éducation de Dakar a permis de fixer pour  objectif essentiel la démocratisation de l'éducation, l'amélioration de la qualité. Mais il faut surtout un engagement  politique réel, exhorter les Etats à mettre en oeuvre au moyen de plans nationaux d'éducation et de formation de  nouvelles pédagogies pour changer les mentalités et les comportements. Quant au grand programme II sur les sciences  exactes et naturelles, il donne la priorité aux questions d'environnement en attirant l'attention sur les ressources en eau et  les écosystèmes. La Côte d'Ivoire adhère à la stratégie proposée mais recommande un partenariat diversifié. S'agissant  du grand programme III sur les sciences sociales et humaines, la Côte d'Ivoire se réjouit de la place faite à l'éthique par  l'UNESCO et espère que le concept de solidarité jouera à fond pour que les pays en développement puissent bénéficier  des progrès scientifiques. Quant au grand programme IV sur la culture, il rencontre les préoccupations du  Gouvernement ivoirien, qui entend procéder à l'inventaire de son patrimoine culturel, car la culture aujourd'hui trouve  sa place dans le développement de notre pays (diversité culturelle, dialogue interculturel). Enfin, le grand programme V  sur la communication et l'information a pour objectif de relever les défis de l'émergence d'une société de l'information,  de promouvoir la liberté d'expression et d'aider au renforcement des capacités en communication.
45.7 Dans l'ensemble, la vision de l'UNESCO pour l'exercice biennal 2002-2003 semble cohérente et satisfaisante.  Mais est-elle réalisable ? La question mérite d'être posée, lorsqu'on constate certaines réductions des budgets en valeur  nominale sans qu'ait été prise en compte la spécificité des pays africains dans la définition des programmes. En outre la  situation internationale actuelle n'augure pas de lendemains meilleurs et on peut craindre des réaffectations budgétaires.
45.8  Monsieur le Président, malgré ces désagréments liés à la conjoncture mondiale, la Côte d'Ivoire adhère toujours  aux idéaux de l'UNESCO. Et le 31 octobre 2001, deux mois avant le quarantième anniversaire de la Commission  nationale ivoirienne pour l'UNESCO, le Président de la République de Côte d'Ivoire, S. E. M. Laurent Gbagbo, sur  invitation de Monsieur le Directeur général, viendra apporter à celui-ci tout son appui dans son vaste programme de  réforme de l'UNESCO du troisième millénaire. Je vous remercie.
46. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Our last speaker will be His Excellency Mr Victor Manuel Borges,  distinguished Minister of Education of Cape Verde. May I invite Your Excellency to take the floor.
47.1 M. BORGES (Cap-Vert) (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français établi à partir de l'interprétation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d'abord,  Monsieur le Président, de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de la 31e session de la Conférence générale  et de vous souhaiter plein succès dans la direction de nos travaux. J'aimerais également saluer le Directeur général et la
183  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, et les remercier des efforts qu'il ont déployés pour conduire l'action de notre  Organisation en faveur de l'éducation de la science, de la culture et de la communication.
47.2 C'est pour moi un grand honneur que de pouvoir représenter le gouvernement du Cap-Vert à cette 31e session  de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO. Cette session est la première du nouveau siècle, un siècle accueilli avec un  optimisme et un espoir récemment démentis par les évènements survenus le 11 septembre aux Etats-Unis, qui ont  rencontré une condamnation générale.
47.3 Prendre la parole au cours de cette session de la Conférence générale est pour moi une occasion unique de  souligner le rôle de catalyseur que joue l'UNESCO au service du bien-être et de la compréhension mutuelle entre les  peuples, ainsi que son importance en tant que forum mondial où débattre des grands problèmes qui agitent le monde  contemporain. C'est aussi pour moi, comme pour mon pays, une grande satisfaction de constater que dans les actions  prévues dans le Projet de stratégie à moyen terme, l'UNESCO entend donner la priorité à l'Afrique, aux pays les moins  avancés ainsi qu'aux femmes et aux jeunes.
47.4 Monsieur le Président, j'aimerais maintenant évoquer ici quelques uns des points forts de la Stratégie à moyen  terme, en ce qui concerne les deux thèmes transversaux et également les grands programmes.
47.5 La pauvreté, comme nous le savons tous, est une menace mondiale. En effet, même si aujourd'hui le nombre de  pauvres a diminué en proportion dans la plupart des régions du monde, en chiffres absolus le nombre total de pauvres a  augmenté dans le monde. Au Sommet mondial pour le développement social, à Copenhague, la priorité a été donnée à  la lutte contre la pauvreté et les pays se sont fixé pour objectif l'élimination de la pauvreté, en considérant que leur  engagement répondait aux impératifs éthiques, sociaux et politiques de l'humanité. Ils ont aussi reconnu que le  développement centré sur l'être humain est la clé de cet objectif. De plus, la pauvreté n'est plus jaugée simplement à la  privation de revenu ; elle se traduit également par la négation des opportunités et des choix. Dans ce contexte, toute  stratégie de lutte contre la pauvreté exige à la fois une amélioration des conditions de vie des populations sur le plan  social et le renforcement de l'éducation, cette éducation permettant à son tour l'intégration des pauvres dans l'économie.
47.6 Au Cap-Vert, la problématique de la pauvreté revêt une importance particulière pour des raisons d'ordre  structurel - absence de ressources naturelles, vulnérabilité sur le plan social, économique et climatique. La légitime  aspiration des individus et de la société de notre pays au développement place la question de la lutte contre la pauvreté  au cœur de l'activité de notre gouvernement. Le mandat de l'UNESCO au sein du système des Nations Unies fait d'elle  une institution clé pour l'avenir de notre pays, en ce qu'elle lui donne mission de mettre au point des stratégies propres à  mobiliser des partenaires en faveur de l'instauration de relations plus équilibrées et équitables, tant au sein de nos  sociétés qu'entre pays développés et pays en développement.
47.7 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, une autre question se trouve au centre de nos préoccupations.  C'est l'éducation, qui apparaît comme un droit fondamental de l'homme et comme un facteur de développement et de  progrès. De ce point de vue, l'éducation pour tous constitue un thème qui se trouve au cœur de la problématique de  l'enseignement, en particulier dans les pays en développement qui ont à se débattre en même temps entre la réduction  des ressources financières, les exigences du marché du travail et les problèmes de l'explosion des effectifs scolaires. Le  Gouvernement du Cap-Vert a fait le pari de développer l'éducation et des progrès importants ont été obtenus. J'aimerais  souligner en particulier la généralisation de l'enseignement de base sur six ans, qui couvre maintenant 96 % de la  population, la réduction significative de l'analphabétisme parmi les adultes, qui est passé de 70 % en 1970 à 20 %  aujourd'hui. L'extension de l'enseignement secondaire est également l'un des aspects marquants de l'évolution du  système éducatif au Cap-Vert et l'allongement de la durée de la scolarité obligatoire à huit ans, qui est notre prochain  objectif, est aujourd'hui à notre portée. Si la généralisation de l'enseignement de base constitue une conquête indéniable,  il reste encore beaucoup à faire dans notre pays pour améliorer la qualité et l'équité des modalités d'apprentissage. La  formation et le perfectionnement du personnel enseignant et l'encadrement pédagogique, la production, la distribution et  l'utilisation de matériels d'enseignement, la construction et l'entretien des établissements scolaires continuent à être  notre principal souci.
47.8 Dans ce contexte caractérisé par des avancées considérables mais insuffisamment consolidées, nous assistons,  perplexes, au désengagement de beaucoup de partenaires traditionnels de notre pays. Cette situation comporte le risque  évident de perdre ces conquêtes encore fragiles. Beaucoup d'amis du Cap-Vert nous disent que nous sommes en fait  pénalisés en raison des résultats que nous avons obtenus. Sans vouloir que l'aide au développement s'éternise, il faut  reconnaître que nos conquêtes sont encore fragiles et notre économie très vulnérable. C'est pourquoi nous pensons qu'il  faut maintenir cette aide, qui matérialise l'engagement mondial en faveur de partenariats pour le développement de  l'éducation, en particulier en Afrique. La tâche est difficile et l'UNESCO doit jouer un rôle important en continuant à  mobiliser activement les différents partenaires pour une plus grande coopération, pour un soutien effectif aux efforts des  différents pays afin d'atteindre cet objectif de l'éducation pour tous dans le droit fil des recommandations de Dakar.
47.9 Et, puisque nous parlons de partenariat, je ne voudrais pas laisser passer cette occasion sans lancer un nouvel  appel à l'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds, et également à l'ensemble des pays bénéficiaires ici présents, afin qu'ils tirent  les enseignements des expériences et des résultats mitigés de l'aide au développement jusqu'à présent. Une analyse  superficielle des pratiques existantes montre qu'il est nécessaire de réformer profondément le système traditionnel  d'aide. Si nous voulons être efficaces, nous devons faire preuve d'audace sur le plan intellectuel, sur le plan de la gestion  et de la stratégie et forger des modèles, des instruments et des procédures différentes qui nous permettent d'obtenir des  résultats plus conformes à nos justes aspirations et mieux adaptés aux besoins de nos populations.  D'autres modèles de  coopération exigent de nouvelles bases de travail fondées sur la confiance mutuelle, la transparence, la culture et la mise  en pratique de l'obligation de rendre des comptes et naturellement une plus grande responsabilisation des pays  bénéficiaires de l'aide.
47.10 Dans le domaine de l'éducation comme dans tous les autres secteurs, la question du renforcement des capacités  devra se trouver au centre de nos préoccupations. Cette affirmation est devenue un lieu commun dans le jargon des  théoriciens et des responsables du développement. Malgré cela, je ne résiste pas à la tentation d'insister sur le fait qu'il  est nécessaire de redoubler d'efforts pour permettre à nos pays en développement de renforcer leurs capacités humaines  et techniques, ce qui leur permettra de relever les défis actuels et futurs de l'éducation, de s'assurer la nécessaire maîtrise  des projets et de mettre en place des mesures d'accompagnement des changements qui permettront de pérenniser les  conquêtes que nous avons faites récemment.
47.11 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous félicitons l'UNESCO d'avoir pris l'initiative d'inscrire en  tant que thème transversal dans la Stratégie à moyen terme, la contribution des technologies de l'information et de la  communication dans les différents domaines de compétence de notre Organisation, car avec le développement de  l'Internet, nous entrons dans une nouvelle ère de la communication. La communication en soi ne représente pas  forcément un progrès social. Elle peut même contribuer à creuser le fossé et à multiplier les inégalités entre les info- riches et les info-pauvres. C'est pourquoi nous sommes convaincus que le rôle de l'UNESCO est indispensable et  irremplaçable. Nous sommes convaincus, en effet, que les technologies de l'information et de la communication auront  un grand impact sur l'éducation, en particulier dans le domaine de l'auto - formation, de l'enseignement à distance et de  l'amélioration de l'accès au savoir. Pour un pays ou archipel comme le nôtre, ces technologies sont porteuses de rêve,  car elles ouvrent la possibilité de faire face à l'insuffisance de ressources humaines et à la dispersion géographique.
47.12 Grâce à la proclamation de la Décennie mondiale du développement culturel, la dimension culturelle du  développement a été mieux affirmée et a contribué sans aucun doute à la formation d'une nouvelle mentalité qui  reconnaît que la culture est un élément essentiel de la vitalité de toutes nos sociétés. Et je note avec satisfaction que les  priorités du gouvernement de mon pays sont parallèles à celles de l'UNESCO puisque nous avons retenu comme défi  principal à relever la sauvegarde et la préservation du patrimoine culturel dans ses différentes expressions. Je pense que  contrairement à certaines idées facilement acceptées et rapidement propagées, l'insertion dans le monde d'aujourd'hui et  la vie harmonieuse dans ce monde passent par un renforcement des différentes identités qui existent dans le monde. Un  monde globalisé et sans références, formé d'individus déracinés, constitue une menace permanente pour la stabilité et la  paix.
47.13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, à l'entrée dans un nouveau siècle profondément marqué par les  risques naturels et des menaces sociales, politiques et économiques visibles, lesquelles donnent lieu à l'aggravation  d'inégalités sociales qui, à leur tour, génèrent des tensions et des conflits, la culture de la paix est d'autant plus  importante, de même que le dialogue, la coopération, la solidarité et la recherche du consensus, pour répondre aux  innombrables défis qui se posent aujourd'hui à l'humanité. Nous avons tous besoin de l'UNESCO pour réaliser les  idéaux de paix, de tolérance et de solidarité qui doivent constituer les valeurs structurantes des relations entre les  peuples et les cultures. Je vous remercie.
48. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Minister. Now we come to the end of our sixth plenary meeting. Tomorrow we will  meet at 10 o’clock in the morning. Thank you very much. The meeting stands adjourned.    La séance est levée à 18 h.55  The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 18.55  Заседание закрывается в 18.55  א ٦,٥٥א   会议于 18 时 55 分结束