301    Dixième séance plénière
19 octobre 2001 à 15 h.10  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  puis : Mme SAID OMAR (Comores)  puis : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  puis : M. FIRAT (Turquie)  Tenth plenary meeting
19 October 2001 at 3.10 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  later: Ms SAID OMAR (Comoros)  later: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  later: Mr FIRAT (Turkey)  Décima sesión plenaria
1. The PRESIDENT:   I declare open the tenth plenary meeting, at which we resume our general policy debate. I would like to express  my thanks to the delegation of Pakistan for having kindly agreed to postpone to this afternoon the delivery of its address  to the plenary. As you are aware, this was due to the visit of His Excellency Mr Valdas Adamkus, President of the  Republic of Lithuania, to the General Conference this morning. May I now call our first speaker for this afternoon,  His Excellency Mr Tariq Farook, the Honourable Secretary for Education of Pakistan. The floor is yours, sir.
2.1 Mr FAROOK (Pakistan):    In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Pakistan, it is an honour for me to be  present at the 31st session of UNESCO’s General Conference amidst representatives of the global community. This is  the first General Conference in the new millennium and it gives us an opportunity to collaborate intellectually and  practically for the promotion of universal human rights. I would like to acknow1edge UNESCO’s leadership in the  person of its Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for his sober and singular dynamism in steering a complex emerging  agenda for this century, humanizing globalization through bold institutional reorganization and strategic partnerships.  We welcome the invitation for two formal reviews of the Medium-Term Strategy in the biennia of 2003 and 2005 so  that this becomes truly “our” strategy.
2.2 Mr President, our General Conference is taking place in the aftermath of a great tragedy that happened in the  United States on 11 September. The Government and the people of Pakistan have repeatedly condemned this brutal act  of terrorism in which thousands of innocent lives, including those of many Pakistanis, were lost. Pakistan, which has  itself been a victim of terrorism for the past two decades, has been steadfast in, and will continue to support, the  struggle against this menace. May I recall the message of the President of Pakistan addressed to President Bush in  which he stated “The people and Government of Pakistan deeply mourn the enormous and unprecedented loss of  innocent lives in the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. We share the grief of the American people in this  grave national tragedy. We strongly condemn this brutal and horrible act of terror and violence. The world must unite to  fight against terrorism in all its forms and root out this modern-day evil”. Three days ago, the President stressed again  that the root causes of most acts of terrorism lie in oppression and the denial of justice. In order to achieve durable  peace or durable results, the current war on terrorism must address and eliminate its root causes. Mr President, in our  unequivocal struggle against international terrorism we must remain mindful of the imperative need to draw a clear  distinction between terrorism and the struggle of people living under alien or foreign occupation, people struggling for  their legitimate right to self-determination, and the struggle of liberation movements.
2.3 Mr President, since the last General Assembly in 1999, Pakistan has been engaged in an intensive proactive  exercise to redefine and implement a series of fundamental building blocks for political and social change. One has  been to bridge the gap between citizens and the State through devolution. A people-centred Local Government Plan
2000 has been implemented, creating a basis for sustainable democracy. The plan is devolving powers and  responsibilities, including social services, from the federal and provincial levels to elected district-level authorities and  local councils. It is an inclusive framework giving 33% representation for women at local and district levels, creating  district government and citizens community boards at the grassroots level to produce an enabling environment for the  monitoring of services, citizens rights and security. A vigorous focus on education has been launched through an  Education Sector Reforms Action Plan. And the four strategic thrust areas of the action plan are, first, 100% literacy  through universal primary education and adult/youth literacy movements; secondly, quality assurance through the  professional development of teachers and managers, continuous curriculum renewal, examination reform and  assessment systems; thirdly, technical and vocational education through area-specific skill programmes in existing and  new secondary schools and the setting-up of polytechnics and enhanced use of existing institutions providing maximum  opportunities for women; and fourthly, higher education with specific emphasis on access, quality and a shift from arts  to science and technology.
2.4 For the first time in Pakistan, education is being seen as the most critical cross-sectoral intervention for which  resources need to be mobilized with courage and imagination. The convergence of all concerned ministries for  promoting education, led by the President of Pakistan himself, is the greatest opportunity for us in the realization of  EFA goals. In March 2000, an Information Technology Commission was set up to formulate an information technology  policy and action plan. This Commission’s mandate and action plan have been developed with the active involvement
303  of the private sector. The government is seen as a facilitator and enabler. The vision is to harness the potential of  information technology as a key contributor to the development of Pakistan.
2.5 The poverty reduction strategy of Pakistan is a development paradigm for poverty reduction and social  development. The major drivers for this strategy are: improved governance; social safety nets for the resource poor;  asset creation; engendering growth for creating income-generating opportunities; and reducing vulnerability to shocks.
2.6 Mr President, since Dakar in 2000, Pakistan has led a country-wide movement to build a consensus on targets  and strategies for meeting the Education for All (EFA) goals. The National Plan of Action for EFA has been developed  with the full participation of all the stakeholders. I should like to remind you of the international commitment, that “no  country in need should be denied international assistance”, which was reaffirmed by all bilateral and multilateral  organizations. We are awaiting impatiently an active response to the call, made at Dakar by our development partners  and the EFA consortium, to support countries who have taken concerted initiatives to develop a plan of action with civil  society participation. Our total EFA bill up to the year 2015 comes to US $7 billion, encompassing core areas of  universal primary education, literacy and early childhood education. Out of this, Pakistan can barely meet 40% of the  cost through its own resources. The rest must be mobilized through our international development partners. Debt swaps  for education were promised at Dakar and mechanisms for financing EFA were established within the Framework for  Action. All multilateral and bilateral partners of EFA are signatories to debt write-offs and debt swaps for highly- indebted as well as low- and medium-income countries.
2.7 Mr President, our public-private partnerships in education for quality and access have been accelerated since  April 2000. These initiatives have become exemplary in the region for school improvement and upgrading. Recognizing  our resource constraints and the need for their optimal use, we have initiated a highly successful programme for school  adoption and for upgrading primary, middle and secondary schools in the afternoon shifts through the private sector.  These programmes are being implemented by the private sector and civil society, to ensure that precious resources are  used not on bricks and mortar but on quality.
2.8 Mr President, at Dakar, Kathmandu and Beijing, Pakistan took bold steps to leverage regional alliances  through the South Asia EFA Forum and E-9 Countries for strategic gains in education. Pakistan will host the first round  of technical ministerial meetings in this connection in 2002 and 2003.
2.9 Mr President, in the field of culture, Pakistan is taking bold steps in the restoration of historical sites, in the  performing and visual arts, and in introducing new departments of arts as well as thematically focused initiatives to link  art with our diverse topographies and ethnic groups in disadvantaged areas. The institutions for promoting the arts in the  public sector are being given institutional autonomy for increased flexibility in mobilizing the best without delays. Our  rich tangible and intangible heritage is a proud reminder to us to look at our sources of strength in the face of adversity.  We seek UNESCO’s support in our innovative programmes, which are above all people-centred and bring a much  needed aesthetic and human dimension to the field of development.
2.10 Finally, Mr President, with a population of 140 million and a current poverty level of 35%, a trend of  increasing vulnerability in Pakistan is a hard reality. As we speak, this trend is being exacerbated by the Afghan crisis.  A mass exodus of Afghanis is under way through our porous borders. We are at present hosting about 3.1 million  refugees on our soil. Due to the present crisis, the United Nations has projected that another 1.5 million refugees are  likely to cross over to Pakistan. This is exerting an enormous pressure on our limited resources for social development.  Food is not the only requirement of the Afghan refugees; they also need education, health, self-esteem and respect for  their culture. This looming humanitarian crisis, in which Pakistan is a frontline state, cannot be ignored. Mr President,  we would like to remind the international community of the promise made at Dakar that “for those countries with  significant challenges, such as complex crises or natural disasters, special technical support will be provided by the  international community”, and also of the United Nations Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeals. The Afghan situation  and its impact on Pakistan have created an extraordinary dilemma for the country’s dwindling resources for social  service delivery and poverty reduction. Whilst we have no choice but to face up to the unparalleled human catastrophe  in Afghanistan, we need major levels of technical and financial assistance to deal with this complex reality on account  of both internal and external constraints. In this connection, Mr President, we in Pakistan offer to host an international  conference to sort out the measures required to deal with this crisis. Thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much, Mr Minister. I would now like to invite His Excellency Dr Juan Cordero Iñiguez,  distinguished Minister of Education, Culture and Sports of Ecuador. Sir, you have the floor.
(4.1) Mr CORDERO ÍÑIGUEZ (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, as Minister of Education, Culture and Sport of Ecuador, a South American country in both halves of the globe, I  extend our warmest greetings to the delegates at the 31st session of the General Conference. Ecuador, with territory in  either hemisphere, knows full well the problems of humanity addressed by UNESCO, such as poverty, the lack of access to  education of millions of boys and girls, the persistence of illiteracy, the inequitable distribution of economic, social and  cultural assets, conservation and the dialogue among cultures, and other matters of universal interest. As a Member of  UNESCO and emboldened by a sense of being the heirs to a marvellous synthesis of universal history, geography and  ethnography, with a small territory but the greatest biodiversity in the world – taking in as it does the extraordinary  Galapagos islands, a fertile tropical coast, a segment of the Andes culminating in year-round snow-caps and a piece of  Amazonia stretching all the way to Peru and Brazil – we firmly opt for peace as vital to development and in seeking  effective and practical solutions to the new problems of education, science, culture and communication, while safeguarding  and reaffirming the common good and an unrestricted respect for human rights.
(4.2) We agree with all the earlier speakers that the future of humanity will be marked by the tragic events of
11 September 2001. The terrorist attack on the United States of America, a country beside which we stand, was directed at  the whole of humanity, represented by hundreds of citizens from all five continents. We also agree that, now more than  ever, intelligence should be uppermost in the search for solutions to this unprecedented universal problem. Rather than  apply the principle of “might is right” we should seek international justice through due process of law, a right enshrined in  the United Nations Charter and in each of our national Constitutions. Only then could the entire international community  lend its unreserved support.
(4.3) A dialogue among cultures and religions has become more important than ever before and should be sponsored  and promoted by UNESCO, an organization characterized by respect for plurality and diversity. Enshrining that in a  declaration could be one of the most positive outcomes of this 31st session of the General Conference. And continuing to  work for the development of education, culture and science for all human beings must of course underpin all of its  decisions. We should like to make some comments on this. We are all convinced that the best means of reducing poverty is  investment in education, but if we are more creative and show more solidarity then our achievements will show us that we  are taking the right path. The truth now is that the world is growing ever poorer and poorer, which suggests that we are off  the mark, that we are going wrong somewhere. Perhaps we should set ethical limits on the neoliberal market to curb the  accumulation of capital by so few individuals and companies. Perhaps the economically most powerful countries should  realize that what poor countries need is not more loans – which merely increase their indebtedness and keep them ever  subjugated – but new policies prompted by more fraternity and solidarity. Perhaps we should be more generous in sharing  the new technologies, currently so expensive that poorer countries are increasingly unable to afford them? In short, we need  to find even better and more effective ways of achieving the major United Nations goal of cutting poverty levels by 2015 to  half of what they were at the start of the new millennium.
(4.4) Ecuador is in the midst of a positive, innovative drive and the culture of peace is one of its priorities. The fact that  Ecuador has settled a long-standing territorial dispute with Peru is overwhelming proof of our willingness, and the fact that  Ecuador’s Ambassador to UNESCO played a decisive part in that achievement is further evidence of our desire for  harmonious relations with all peoples of the world.
(4.5) We must forge ahead with the education reforms under way and complete the necessary changes. We cannot put  off the introduction of policies, measures and strategies to achieve new results and raise the living standards of the  Ecuadorian people. The Ministry of Education and Culture, which I head, has undertaken a reform at the very heart of the  system. Its main strategy is to raise awareness of education internationally, nationally and locally. Unless education is  understood to be an issue concerning us all it will be very difficult to get everyone involved in the process and the  necessary changes. One of the main functions of society has always been to educate its members. Other strategies, such as  boosting the participation of civil society in schools and decentralizing education, handing it over to sectoral bodies, go  hand in hand with the aim of improving conditions for all boys and girls and young people, teaching them the subject- matter, skills and attitudes needed for life. Ecuador’s education reform is entirely based on promoting, in the same steady  process, every level of education – pre-school, elementary, secondary, higher and postgraduate – while modernizing the  ministry and restoring to it its leading role in the national education system.
(4.6) Ecuador has responsibly abided by its commitments relating to the United Nations Literacy Decade: Education  For All. Ecuador’s national projects concentrate on rural and marginal urban populations, who are the worst off in terms of  infrastructure, equipment and teaching opportunities. Ecuador’s new education policy is intended to promote a number of  integrated methods of preparing curricula for specific groups such as rural women or working children and youth, who  have fewer educational opportunities. People with special needs will be granted specific facilities to get them into the  education system, without any exclusion. Those are the theoretical aims. The Ecuadorian Government, now led by  Dr Gustavo Noboa Bejarano, has made education one of the top priorities on the national agenda. In previous years the  education budget had dropped to below 7% of the State budget, but this year it has risen to 9% and in 2002 will top 11%.  We are on target for achieving ten-year basic education, free and compulsory under the Constitution. School enrolment  now stands at 2,639,000 in Ecuador. With UNESCO support we shall achieve the necessary innovations and changes in  order to address the issue of full secondary education in the country.
(4.7) The project to computerize teaching and educational institutions is in full swing. The initial aim is to deliver
4,000 computers for use in teaching throughout the country in 2001, while next year another 6,000 are to be supplied, under  a programme with the evocative name of Maestr@s.com. In the area of culture, we have embarked upon an ambitious  national reading programme called “Eugenio Espejo”; it will start with 27 titles for general distribution backed by a well  thought out, comprehensive promotion campaign. We are also committed to UNESCO’s proposal to promote standard- setting instruments and their implementation in the area of culture, to protect cultural diversity and to foster pluralism and  dialogue among cultures and civilizations. We shall of course be strengthening the links between culture and development  through skill transmission and knowledge sharing. We are also following up UNESCO’s proposal to encourage the free  flow of ideas and universal access to information.
(4.8) Finally, I should like to thank the Organization for its cooperation and repeat Ecuador’s firm commitment to the  main themes proposed by UNESCO and the many delegates at this 31st session of the General Conference. Thank you very  much.
5. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I would now like to invite His Excellency Mr Jean Bio Chabi-Orou,  distinguished Minister of Primary and Secondary Education of Benin. You have the floor, sir.
6.1 M. CHABI-OROU (Bénin) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les distingués membres des  délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi, à la suite des éminents orateurs qui m'ont précédé et au nom de  mon pays la République du Bénin, de vous adresser, Monsieur le Président, mes chaleureuses félicitations pour votre  élection à la tête de la Conférence générale pour cette 31e session et de vous souhaiter plein succès dans la conduite de  ces assises de notre organisation commune de coopération intellectuelle et éthique. C'est également le moment et le lieu  de saluer les efforts soutenus de Mme la Présidente du Conseil exécutif dont la disponibilité, la clairvoyance et la foi en  l'UNESCO et en ses nobles idéaux, chaque jour plus actuels, n'ont pas manqué d'apporter une note tonique aux travaux  du Conseil exécutif tout au long de la période biennale qui s'achève.
6.2 Je m'en voudrais par ailleurs de ne pas féliciter sincèrement Monsieur le Directeur général pour l'excellente  préparation matérielle et intellectuelle de la présente session et la qualité des documents. A tous les membres du  Secrétariat de l'Organisation, la délégation de mon pays voudrait, par ma voix, exprimer ses marques de sympathie en  les remerciant d'avoir, aux côtés du Directeur général, su interpréter et traduire, avec un sens aigu des responsabilités,  les préoccupations des Etats membres en ce début du XXIe siècle qui est marqué par des secousses et soubresauts  violents, douloureux tribut payé à la mondialisation.
6.3 Monsieur le Président, de même que la 30e session avait eu, en son temps, le mérite historique de jeter un  regard rétrospectif et synthétique sur le XXe siècle, pour en apprécier et mettre en relief aussi bien les apports largement  significatifs au progrès de l'humanité que les atrocités dont l'être humain a été (et reste) victime, de même la 31e session  a la mission et le devoir, eux aussi historiques, d'amener l'espèce humaine, non seulement à se réconcilier durablement  avec elle-même en renonçant à toutes les formes d'hégémonisme et d'exclusion, mais aussi à s'atteler à l'oeuvre  gigantesque de réparation et de réhabilitation de l'homme.
6.4 La Conférence mondiale contre le racisme, la discrimination raciale, la xénophobie et l'intolérance qui y est  associée qui s'est déroulée récemment à Durban en Afrique du Sud, a recommandé à la communauté internationale  d'entreprendre des activités visant à prévenir et à éliminer la discrimination sous toutes ses formes, au moyen de  l'éducation, de la recherche et de la sensibilisation du public, et notamment des jeunes.
6.5 Les attentats terroristes qui ont endeuillé les Etats- Unis d'Amérique au lendemain de la conférence de Durban  interpellent donc la conscience de toutes les femmes et de tous les hommes qui ne désespèrent pas de bâtir un monde  plus juste, un monde de paix. Mon pays s'associe à la condamnation des actes terroristes du 11 septembre 2001 et  approuve les efforts déployés par l'UNESCO pour contribuer à la préservation de la paix face à cette nouvelle menace.
6.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, fidèle à sa mission originelle - éduquer pour prévenir la guerre  et préserver la paix ; promouvoir raisonnablement les progrès scientifiques pour faire de la science un instrument très  puissant du développement ; favoriser le dialogue entre les cultures pour le rapprochement des communautés humaines  à la fois dans leurs infinies différences et leurs inépuisables similitudes -, l'UNESCO a l'obligation de garder la tête  froide et le coeur chaud pour assurer l'épanouissement de l'homme et la survie de notre espèce.
6.7 C'est pourquoi le forum de Dakar, qui, en avril 2000 s'est donné comme objectif de fournir à tous, d'ici à 2015,  une éducation de base de qualité, constitue pour nous tous un acte de foi dans le devenir radieux de la planète.
6.8 Il traduit en même temps l'engagement de tous, dans un élan solidaire, pour une campagne légitime et sans  frontière contre l'analphabétisme, l'illettrisme et l'ignorance qui sévissent et ruinent les sociétés. Comment concevoir par  exemple le développement démocratique lorsque des peuples, ou certaines composantes vulnérables de la société  (notamment les femmes, les jeunes, les minorités ethniques) n'ont pas accès à l'éducation ? Comment entendre la paix et  le développement pendant que des communautés entières se voient refuser le droit de s'affirmer culturellement et de  s'exprimer comme entité totale à la fois unique et élément à part entière de la culture, une culture plurielle ? Comment  parvenir à nous convaincre nous-mêmes d'être et de demeurer des hommes, autrement dit des êtres doués d'intelligence  et de raison, si, dans les temps à venir, nos enfants doivent se passer de mères et nous être livrés par des laboratoires ?
6.9 Monsieur le Président, la République du Bénin, qui place une totale confiance en l'UNESCO comme  conscience morale de l'humanité, n'a aucune raison de douter de la volonté toujours plus affirmée des États membres de  permettre à cette institution qui nous est commune de poursuivre sa mission de veille intellectuelle et éthique afin  d'épargner à la communauté mondiale toute surprise désagréable et irréparable, toute action préjudiciable à la survie de  l'humanité et des autres règnes qui ont reçu la planète Terre en partage.
6.10 Aussi, pour sa part, mon pays, en dépit de ressources matérielles et financières très limitées, accorde-t-il une  place de choix au secteur de l'éducation, auquel il consacre plus de la moitié du budget national. Il faut éduquer pour  humaniser, humaniser pour amener à s'accepter mutuellement et à être solidaires. Ainsi, le Bénin a fait de la  scolarisation des jeunes filles sa priorité absolue pour gagner le pari de la paix et du développement.
6.11 Monsieur le Président, dans son effort pour échapper au sous-développement, le Bénin a amorcé de même une  réforme de l'enseignement primaire avec l'aide très engagée de l'USAID, que nous saluons ici. Cette réforme, nous  l'espérons vivement, nous permettra à terme d'atteindre un taux de scolarisation très élevé. Notre souhait est de voir  l'UNESCO appuyer cette réforme, qui pourrait faire école dans notre sous-région en particulier, comme dans le reste du  monde.
6.12 Par ailleurs il nous a paru intéressant et nécessaire de nous efforcer courageusement de mettre en adéquation  formation et emploi, en accordant une place de choix à l'enseignement technique et à la formation professionnelle dont  un département ministériel spécifique est désormais chargé dans notre pays. Oui, le Bénin nourrit l'ambition légitime de  faire de ce secteur l'un des puissants leviers de son  développement.
6.13 La communication et les nouvelles technologies de l'information sont également un pôle très sensible dans mon  pays. Le grand intérêt qu'il porte à ce secteur a conduit le Bénin à confier ces enjeux d'aujourd'hui et de demain aux  compétences d'un département ministériel à part entière. Nous brûlons d'impatience de nous approprier ces nouvelles  technologies pour prendre une part active à la construction d'une société du savoir.
6.14 Mon pays est convaincu que ces questions d'un intérêt certain ne manqueront pas d'interpeller les présentes  assises comme les interpelleront des enjeux récurrents tels que la préservation du patrimoine culturel - à travers  notamment, le projet de la "Route de l'esclave" -, la sauvegarde du patrimoine immatériel, et la  protection du  patrimoine subaquatique gravement menacé de pillage.
6.15 Nous nous félicitons du remarquable travail accompli par l'UNESCO et qui a abouti à un projet de Déclaration  sur la diversité culturelle. Ce texte constitue, à n'en point douter, un progrès décisif, en particulier pour nous Africains,  qui n'avons pas pris part à l'élaboration de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme.
6.16 Je voudrais, à cet égard, réitérer l'appel de mon pays pour la restauration d'un programme de promotion des  langues, indispensable pour préserver la diversité culturelle et le multilinguisme dans le cyberespace, ainsi qu'ont eu à le  souligner de nombreux Etats membres lors de la récente session de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation à  Genève.
6.17 Le Bénin soutient également l'initiative relative à l'élaboration d'un instrument normatif visant à protéger le  patrimoine culturel subaquatique et souhaite vivement que le projet qui nous est soumis soit adopté au cours de nos  assises.
6.18 Monsieur le Président, la démocratisation de l'information passe par la mise en place d'une structure ou  institution de contrôle en matière d'éthique et de déontologie. Le Réseau des instances africaines de régulation de la  communication (RIARC), qui comprend vingt-quatre membres, et dont le Bénin assure la présidence exécutive, déploie  de grands efforts dans ce sens. Je voudrais me permettre de demander à la Conférence d'accorder son soutien et son  appui à cette structure afin qu'elle puisse s'acquitter de sa mission, au bénéfice de la démocratie et des droits de la  personne humaine à l'heure des nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication.
6.19 Les programmes que nous propose l'Organisation sont très pertinents. Mon pays souhaite qu'une plus grande  attention soit accordée aux pays les moins avancés, à l'Afrique, aux jeunes, aux femmes et à la lutte contre la pauvreté.  Il s'interroge cependant sur les résultats tangibles qu'il est possible d'obtenir avec un budget à croissance nominale zéro.  Tout en exprimant sa gratitude aux généreux donateurs, le Bénin en appelle à la solidarité de tous pour que le plafond  budgétaire soit relevé de façon que les objectifs prioritaires que nous nous sommes fixés soient atteints.
6.20 Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs, le XXIe  siècle et le troisième millénaire sont porteurs de bien des incertitudes, mais aussi de beaucoup  d'espoir. Puisse l'UNESCO, notre Organisation commune, les accompagner de sa patience et de sa sagesse pour plus de  dialogue, plus de compréhension et plus de solidarité  ! Je vous remercie.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. May I now call on His Excellency Dr Sarath Amunugama, distinguished  Minister of Education and Higher Education of Sri Lanka. Sir, the floor is yours.
8.1 Mr AMUNUGAMA (Sri Lanka)   Mr President, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies and distinguished delegates, may I begin by  congratulating His Excellency Ahmad Jalali on his assumption of the office of President of the General Conference of  UNESCO. We are indeed very fortunate to have a person of his calibre and we wish him every success. We are also  fortunate in having His Excellency Koïchiro Matsuura at the helm of UNESCO – as its Director-General. He has ably  guided the diverse activities of UNESCO with dynamism and understanding.
8.2 We are meeting in the aftermath of the recent horrific destruction in the United States, caused by terrorism. We  in Sri Lanka have lived with this problem for two decades. Some months ago Sri Lanka faced a sudden and senseless  attack on its only international airport. The international community is becoming increasingly aware that global  terrorism is interlinked and derives its sustenance from the successes achieved by the global terror network. I feel it is  incumbent on United Nations bodies, individually and collectively, to devise strategies to combat this scourge in the  interest of abiding global peace and harmony.
8.3 I now turn to some significant areas in the Draft Programme and Budget 2002-2003. May I say, firstly, that we  support the efforts of UNESCO and in particular its Education Sector, in its efforts to build knowledge through quality  education. We in Sri Lanka have, from ancient times, always cherished a tradition of learning and now enjoy near  universal literacy. A notable feature of our pattern of literacy is the high participation of women. Although the  achievement of near universal literacy is admirable in a developing country like Sri Lanka, we are acutely conscious of  certain major shortcomings in the quality of education imparted to our children. Her Excellency the President of Sri  Lanka, Chankdrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunge has set in motion several vital educational reform programmes which  are expected to effect major structural changes in the existing education system as a result of teacher training, better  learning environments, appropriate curricular changes and the introduction of modern teaching-learning technologies.  Each year our Government sets aside a very substantial budgetary allocation for education, which ensures free  education in State schools and universities as well as providing free textbooks and school uniforms for children. Our  achievement of near universal literacy is recognized as a product of the universal franchise which was introduced into  our country in 1931. The Sri Lankan experience is a good illustration of the crucial linkage between the expansion of  democracy and the growth of literacy.
8.4 Secondly, Sri Lanka strongly endorses the policy of “Education for All”. We have indeed been among the  pioneers in implementing this policy in the Asian Region by making education compulsory for all children up to the age  of 14.
8.5 Your Excellencies and distinguished delegates, we were all fortunate to be present in this Hall at the inaugural  ceremony where His Excellency the President of France, Jacques Chirac, made a most memorable address. He  eloquently emphasized the importance of “putting people first”, which is the basic democratic credo captured by the  phrase “Education for All”.
8.6 Thirdly, I wish to state that Sri Lanka has given maximum priority to the development and application of  science and technology in all sectors, with particular attention being focused on information and communication  technologies. Sri Lanka greatly appreciates UNESCO’s continued support and cooperation towards achieving our  objectives in these challenging fields.
8.7 Fourthly, in the field of culture, Sri Lanka has been one of UNESCO’s success stories as evidenced by the  successful completion in 1998 of the UNESCO – Sri Lanka Cultural Triangle Project. This Project was aimed at  protecting and conserving the archaeological and cultural heritage of Sri Lanka and has been hailed as a model of its  kind. A six-year Cultural Heritage Development for the period 2000 to 2006 is being implemented with UNESCO’s  support. Sri Lanka has the comparative advantage of hosting the Millennium Monuments Project and we here state our  willingness to play that role.
8.8 We are also most appreciative of the efforts made by the Director-General of UNESCO in the formulation of  the draft declaration on cultural diversity. We are confident that it will be adopted by the Conference and will come to  constitute a key international policy instrument in this field. Sri Lanka also appreciates UNESCO’s leadership in  bringing together the concerns and experience of the 23 United Nations agencies with an interest in fresh water. The  International Hydrological Programme of UNESCO and the UNESCO-led World Water Assessment Programme are  laying the knowledge foundation through case studies in various parts of the world. The Ruhunu Basin of Sri Lanka has  been selected as one of the first pilot case studies under the programme. In conclusion let me state that Sri Lanka  commits itself unreservedly to work towards the fulfilment of the worthy goals of UNESCO. Thank You
9. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. You have won an After Eight prize for saving us three minutes. I would  like to encourage other distinguished speakers to run for the prizes awaiting them here. And now, distinguished Minister  of Primary, Secondary and Higher Education in charge of Scientific Research of Congo, His Excellency Mr Pierre  Nzila, has the floor.
10.1 M. NZILA (Congo) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les Ministres et chefs des délégations, Mesdames, Messieurs, j'associe ma voix  à celle des nombreux orateurs qui m'ont précédé, pour vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, au nom du Gouvernement  de la République du Congo et de la délégation qui m'accompagne, toutes mes félicitations pour votre brillante élection.  Monsieur le Président, la Délégation du Congo vous assure de son soutien et oeuvrera pour que la 31e  session de la  Conférence générale soit couronnée de succès. Je saisis l'occasion pour adresser également mes sincères félicitations à  Mme la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et à Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO pour les efforts accomplis en  vue d'améliorer la qualité du travail de notre Organisation et pour la bonne préparation des travaux de la présente  session de la Conférence générale.
10.2 Le Congo a toujours soutenu et continuera de soutenir l'UNESCO dans sa lutte contre toutes formes d'injustice,  contre l'ignorance et dans les efforts qu'elle déploie pour défendre les idéaux de paix, la démocratie et de liberté de la  presse. Il convient de souligner cependant que l'oeuvre entamée est immense car plus que jamais, la paix est aujourd'hui  notre préoccupation commune en ce moment où le monde est menacé par les vagues de terrorisme et des conflits armés  que chacun a condamnés à cette tribune, sans oublier, notamment pour les pays pauvres, le poids de la dette, toutes les  inégalités d'ordre économique et social et l'expansion du VIH/sida qui constitue pour eux un danger supplémentaire.
10.3 Monsieur le Président, le Congo est heureux de constater que fidèle à sa mission, l'UNESCO s'est assignée  comme objectif pour sa Stratégie à moyen terme 2002-2007 de contribuer à la paix et au développement humain à l'ère  de la mondialisation par l'éducation, la science et la technologie. Nous soutenons l'action que l'UNESCO mène en  faveur de la conception de nouvelles méthodes et programmes pour l'éducation à la paix, l'éducation contre l'exclusion,  l'éducation au service de la démocratie et des droits de l'homme, de manière à assurer la transition d'une culture de  guerre et de violence vers une culture de paix, de non-violence, de tolérance et de solidarité. L'éducation est la clé  indispensable qui ouvre la porte à un développement réel et durable, car elle est capable de vaincre efficacement la  pauvreté, l'analphabétisme, la maladie et, ne l'oublions jamais, les préjugés. C'est pourquoi, l'éducation devrait être au  centre des préoccupations des gouvernements, des ONG et de la société civile.
10.4 S'agissant de l'éducation de base, le Congo souhaite qu'on procède à une évaluation à mi-parcours des  différents programmes et que les résultats en soient publiés en vue de garantir la réalisation des objectifs de l'éducation  pour tous, tels que formulés en avril 2000 à Dakar. Par ailleurs, le Congo suggère que l'UNESCO mette en route des
310  activités axées sur le renforcement des capacités des instituts nationaux de recherche en éducation de base. Plus  généralement, le Congo demande la mise en place des mécanismes de conversion de la dette afin de financer les  programmes ciblés d'éducation au titre de la nouvelle Initiative élargie en faveur des pays pauvres très endettés. Dans le  cadre de la promotion du livre, l'UNESCO devra encourager le développement des industries sous-régionales et  nationales du livre, notamment dans les pays en développement. S'agissant de l'alphabétisation, le Congo approuve les  programmes d'alphabétisation des jeunes et des femmes axés sur le développement des liens entre l'éducation et le  micro-crédit. Mais il paraît indispensable de financer la création des centres pilotes sous-régionaux et nationaux  d'éducation.
10.5 Le Congo approuve la résolution proposée dans le paragraphe 01220 du document 31 C/5 relative à  l'enseignement supérieur et souhaite que l'UNESCO appuie la création de pôles universitaires locaux dans les pays en  développement en vue de diversifier les systèmes d'enseignement supérieur. Le Congo reconnaît l'importance de  l'enseignement scientifique et technologique dans le secondaire et le supérieur et considère qu'il est un élément  indispensable à l'action que mène tout pays pour parvenir au développement. Par ailleurs, le Congo demande  particulièrement à l'UNESCO d'apporter un appui technique et financier aux programmes UNITWIN/Chaires  UNESCO. Le Congo sollicite l'appui de l'UNESCO dans son effort de rénovation des programmes de l'enseignement  technique et professionnel conformément aux actions contenues dans les paragraphes 01210 et 01213.
10.6 En ce qui concerne le grand programme II relatif aux sciences, le rôle principal de l'UNESCO est de faciliter le  progrès, l'échange et le partage des connaissances. Le Congo se félicite de l'intérêt accordé par l'UNESCO au  développement des énergies durables et renouvelables et assure de sa totale adhésion à ce programme. A ce propos, il  demande le soutien de l'Organisation pour le renforcement des capacités de l'Université Marien NGOUABI de  Brazzaville et des centres de recherche en sciences de la terre. Par ailleurs, le Congo sollicite l'appui de l'UNESCO en  vue de l'introduction de l'enseignement des droits de l'homme et du citoyen dans l'ensemble de son système éducatif.
10.7 Dans le domaine culturel, chacun sait les efforts que l'UNESCO déploie pour la protection des monuments  historiques, des sites naturels et du patrimoine mondial. Le Congo se félicite de l'aide apportée par l'UNESCO aux Etats  membres dans la formulation de leurs politiques culturelles, et de son action pour la promotion de la diversité et du  pluralisme culturel et pour le dialogue entre les cultures et les civilisations. C'est pourquoi, le Congo fait sienne l'idée de  la création d'une Académie africaine des langues qui se fonde sur une volonté de valorisation des langues africaines et  lance un appel à tous les partenaires dans le développement de l'Afrique pour qu'ils apportent le concours financier et  technique nécessaire à la création et à la conduite des activités de la future Académie.
10.8 On reconnaît, à l'UNESCO, l'importance des programmes relatifs à la libre circulation des idées et à l'accès à  l'information. Il faut effectivement assurer l'accès aux nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication.  Pour ce faire, l'UNESCO devrait soutenir les Etats dans le travail politique de développement de leurs médias, et de  formation de spécialistes et les aider à organiser des groupes de réflexion sur les grandes évolutions de la  communication.
10.9 S'agissant du Programme de participation, le Congo constate malheureusement que le nombre de requêtes à  soumettre à cet important programme ne cesse de décroître et que le montant global de son financement est revu à la  baisse. Or, selon les Etats membres, le Programme de participation est un excellent moyen dont dispose l'UNESCO  pour les Etats à réaliser des actions de leur choix en restant bien sûr dans les domaines de compétence de l'Organisation.  Par conséquent, le Congo accepterait que le nombre des requêtes autorisées passe à 12, à condition que ces requêtes  soient effectivement accordées en priorité aux pays en développement.
10.10 Le Département Afrique devra rendre son action plus visible en publiant les réalisations de ses activités pays  par pays. Il importe que ce département informe les Etats de toutes les modalités et procédures à suivre pour pouvoir  bénéficier de ses services. Le Congo constate avec satisfaction le maintien du programme de bourses et observe que son  budget est légèrement revu à la hausse. Ce programme devra être réservé exclusivement aux pays en développement. Le  programme de coopération aussi bien avec les organisations internationales qu'avec les sources de financement  extrabudgétaires a été bien élaboré. Il mérite le soutien du Congo, qui malheureusement n'a jamais bénéficié de ce  financement.
10.11 Monsieur le Président, la gestion des ressources humaines est une des préoccupations du Congo qui  souhaiterait une mise à jour de la répartition géographique des personnels à l'UNESCO car c'est à tort que le Congo est  classé actuellement parmi les pays normalement représentés. Notre souhait le plus ardent, Monsieur le Président, serait  de voir l'UNESCO trouver une solution équitable à la représentation de tous les Etats membres au sein du Secrétariat. Je  vous remercie pour votre aimable attention.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I would like now to call upon His Excellency Professor Jaak Kangilaski,  Chairperson of the Estonian National Commission for UNESCO. You have the floor, Sir.
12.1 Mr KANGILASKI (Estonia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  let me begin by congratulating you, Ambassador Jalali, on your election as President of the General Conference at this  session.
12.2 Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the recent shocking events, it is time to go back to one of the major ideas  of UNESCO’s Constitution, “wars begin in the minds of men”. So does peace. To the words si vis pacem, para bellum,  we must oppose the words para pacem: if you want peace, prepare for it and build on it. Preparing for peace means  preparing for our future and that of our children. The principal challenge to humanity in the twenty-first century is  undoubtedly the task of learning to live together, as highlighted by Jacques Delors. I would like to stress the word  “learning”. Peace cannot be imposed from outside, it must thrive through the attitudes and deeds of each and every one  of us. It is, first and foremost, through education that UNESCO can help to shape attitudes and make the world a better  place for us all.
12.3 Estonia strongly supports the initiative of Education for All and is committed to developing a credible national  plan of action by 2002. In spite of the common goal, not all countries can or should choose the same pathway towards  education for all. As has been said, “many times, many ways” – the heart of EFA activity lies at the country level. Each  country has to decide where its own priorities lie and which strategies and associated actions will achieve the greatest  benefit. Estonia feels very strongly that Education for All is much more than literacy for all. It is education for all  throughout life. Initial training is becoming more universal and longer, but is now only the first cycle of organized  educational life. Thus, further and continuing training have assumed an increasingly important role as the shaper of the  labour force and as an effective complement to formal education.
12.4 Besides a good quality of basic education, Estonia attaches great importance to adult education. Since 1998  Adult Learners’ Weeks have been organized yearly in Estonia, each year culminating in an adult education forum. In  order to gain and renew the skills needed for participation in the information society, everyone should be guaranteed  permanent access to learning. Several new programmes of adult training are being offered nowadays by Estonian  universities in an Internet environment, giving more learners a chance to study on weekends and evenings.
12.5 Four years ago Estonia was among the first countries in the region to open, with the assistance of the United  Nations, the first Public Internet Points, some of them in faraway islands. By today, Public Internet Points have been  opened all over the country. With a view to raising the level of knowledge about information technology, the project  known as “Tiger Leap” has been applied in Estonia since 1997. With the help of this project a vast majority of Estonian  schools are equipped today with computers and have access to the Internet. “Tiger Leap” also supports the access of  pupils with special needs to general education by making information and communication technologies available for  that purpose. The Government of Estonia has also made good use of the new information technologies. In August 2000  the Government of Estonia took the pioneering step of changing Cabinet meetings to paperless sessions using a web- based document system.
12.6 It is well known that one talks only about generals who win or lose battles, never about those who manage to  avoid them. And yet preventive action is the most powerful tool in ensuring quality of life. Prevention is not merely a  possibility: it is an obligation and a moral imperative. For more than a decade Estonia remained one of the few almost  HIV free zones in Europe, with a total registered number of HIV-positive cases lower than 100 just 15 months ago.  Unfortunately, since last September the number of new HIV-positive cases has increased to nearly 2000. The epidemic,  spread first among drug addicts via shared needles, has found its way this year to other groups of society. It is clear that  preventive education is the most important means for checking the spread of HIV/AIDS and there are examples of good  and successful practice that need to be replicated. With a view to doing just that, the first regional conference on  voluntary service organizations and AIDS prevention was recently held in Estonia with support from the UNESCO  Education Sector and the Infoyouth Programme.
12.7 Mr President, Estonia welcomes the quest for sustainable development as a central guiding principle of the  Organization’s activities in both the natural and the social and human sciences. I am glad to say that concern for the  preservation of our environment has grown considerably in Estonia as compared with Soviet times. At the same time,  the mentality of the consumer society brings about new problems and concerns. The consumer society seeks to establish  new needs, which in turn put greater pressure on nature and threaten the survival of the biosphere. Developed countries  have a moral obligation to find ways to alter their consumption patterns to meet better the needs of sustainable  developments. UNESCO’s help in elaborating the necessary mechanisms is much appreciated.
12.8 Mr President, Estonia expresses strong support for the reforms and restructuring of the Organization. Much has  been done to reshape UNESCO so that it can serve the global community with maximum competence, efficiency,  transparency and accountability. Needless to say, much remains to be done. Also, Member States should share the  responsibility for a clearer, more functional and realistic vision of UNESCO as UNESCO is our common creation.
12.9 The protection and safeguarding of the cultural heritage is of the essence for protecting cultural diversity.  Having a rich cultural heritage is both an advantage and a great responsibility. The World Tourism Organization  expects tourism in the Baltic Sea region to grow more than any other region in Europe over the coming years. The  cooperation of heritage, culture and tourism is therefore of vital importance.
12.10 The Old Town of Tallinn was inscribed on the World Heritage List in 1997. This short period of time has given  rise to heated discussions at the national level on the ever-intriguing subject of how to reconcile creation, tradition and  development. On the one hand, each era wants to leave its imprint, to be recorded in architecture and, on the other hand,  there is a desire to preserve the valuable heritage of the past. UNESCO’s role should be to balance the different  viewpoints. In the world heritage site of Tallinn a block of about forty new buildings is being planned to replace the  houses destroyed during the war. If the construction of new buildings should be considered appropriate, a new range of  questions will arise. Recognizing the responsibility for Tallinn’s Old Town as part of the world heritage and bearer of  historical memory, Estonia wishes to establish the level of expert dialogue needed to determine the new development  strategies. To that end, an international conference on the impact of modem infill architecture in cultural heritage cities  will be organized in Estonia.
12.11 Estonia notes with satisfaction the work done by UNESCO in the field of protecting and promoting the oral  and intangible heritage, a symbol of the spiritual values of the peoples and communities to which it belongs. For Baltic  countries, traditional song festivals are traditional cultural expressions of outstanding value. We believe them to be  worth submitting to the list of masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity.
12.12 The present moment is a fragile bridge between that which has been and that which will be, the bridge of  responsibility. We are responsible for the most precious heritage of all – the human being. Thank you all.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency Professor Joseph Owona, distinguished  Minister of National Education of Cameroon. Excellency, you have the floor.
14.1 M. OWONA (Cameroun) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, il m'est particulièrement agréable de me trouver ici à ce rendez- vous biennal de la grande famille de ceux qui, à travers le monde, croient et aspirent au progrès de l'humanité grâce à  l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication, c'est à dire aux armes de l'esprit pour la défense de la paix. Le  Cameroun se réjouit de pouvoir apporter sa modeste contribution à la poursuite et à la réalisation des objectifs de notre  Organisation. La présente Conférence nous donne l'occasion de nous enrichir mutuellement. C'est en ce sens que la  nécessité du partage et la promotion d'un dialogue authentique entre les cultures s'imposent toujours davantage  aujourd'hui. Dans ce contexte, j'ai l'honneur de vous transmettre les encouragements de S. E. M. Paul Biya, Président de  la République, dont l'action constante rejoint les préoccupations de l'UNESCO. Je saisis également cette occasion pour  renouveler nos félicitations à Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général de l'UNESCO, pour les actions décisives  qu'il a engagées depuis notre dernière session. Nous saluons également Mme Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux qui a dirigé  le Conseil exécutif jusqu'à sa dernière session avec tact et compétence. Le Cameroun joint sa voix à celle des orateurs  qui l'ont précédé à cette tribune pour féliciter S. E. M. Ahmad Jalali de la République islamique d'Iran pour sa brillante  élection à la tête de la Conférence générale. Sa grande expérience et ses éminentes qualités sont garantes du succès des  présentes assises. Le Cameroun tient à l'assurer de son entière collaboration et de sa disponibilité. Enfin, nous adressons  nos vives et chaleureuses félicitations à Mme Jaroslava Moserová, présidente de la Conférence générale à sa
30e session, pour la brillante manière dont elle a accompli la mission que la Conférence générale lui avait confiée.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, en ces temps où le monde traverse une période particulièrement délicate et dramatique,  le moment nous paraît indiqué de nous inspirer une fois de plus des idéaux contenus dans l'Acte constitutif de  l'UNESCO. En effet, "les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que  doivent être élevées les défenses de la paix". L'UNESCO demeure et doit demeurer la conscience morale et  intellectuelle de l'humanité. Elle doit s'appuyer sur l'esprit de tolérance et de dialogue, à travers l'éducation, la science,  la culture et la communication. Elle doit contribuer au règlement des crises, à l'élimination de la pauvreté, à la réduction  de l'analphabétisme, du sous-développement et de la fracture numérique. La diversité culturelle, objet d'un projet de  Déclaration que nous appuyons, et le dialogue interculturel sont deux concepts complémentaires qui doivent devenir  une réalité vivante de notre monde. Par cela nous contribuerons à extirper les gènes porteurs de frustrations,  d'intolérances, d'incompréhensions, de violences et de conflits.
14.3 Nous nous félicitons de la tenue en avril 2000 du Forum de Dakar sur l'éducation pour tous et en septembre
2001 de la 46e Session de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation de Genève. Ces deux rencontres auront permis de  débattre amplement de questions qui se posent de manière récurrente et lancinante dans le domaine de l'éducation. Nous  souhaitons que toutes les recommandations de ces rencontres fassent l'objet d'un suivi attentif. Par ailleurs, le Cameroun
313  compte sur l'appui vigoureux de l'UNESCO pour la mise en œuvre de sa stratégie sectorielle en matière d'éducation  tendant à la réduction des inégalités et à l'universalisation de l'éducation de base.
14.4 Nous réaffirmons notre soutien aux réformes entreprises par l'UNESCO et nous les approuvons. Nous  souhaitons voir mettre un accent particulier sur la décentralisation des structures, qui a abouti à la création de pôles  autour desquels sont regroupés plusieurs Etats membres et qui fera s'impliquer davantage les commissions nationales.  Aussi le Cameroun tient-il à remercier le Directeur général pour le maintien du Bureau de Yaoundé, qui couvre outre le  Cameroun, la République centrafricaine et le Tchad.
14.5 A la lecture des documents 31 C/4 et 31 C/5, nous relevons avec satisfaction les progrès réalisés dans la  présentation de ces documents sur le plan de la clarté, de la lisibilité et de la transparence. Nous notons en ce qui  concerne le 31 C/4 qu'il a été établi sur la base d'un vaste processus de consultation des Etats membres, des  commissions nationales, d'organisations internationales régionales et d'autres parties prenantes. Ce document met  également en évidence les orientations générales de l'Organisation, sa mission, ainsi que les stratégies à mettre en  oeuvre dans chacun de ses domaines de compétence pour réaliser ses objectifs fondamentaux.
14.6 S'agissant du 31 C/5, nous notons que le niveau du plafond budgétaire est fixé à 544.367.250 dollars des Etats- Unis, soit une croissance nominale zéro par rapport au document 30 C/5. Nous voulons espérer que malgré ces chiffres  qui représentent en termes réels une réduction de 4,2 %, la priorité accordée à l'Afrique dans les programmes et activités  de l'UNESCO sera maintenue. Pour cela, le Cameroun suggère que les deux thèmes transversaux, à savoir  "L'élimination de la pauvreté, en particulier l'extrême pauvreté" et "La contribution des technologies de l'information et  de la communication au développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture et à la construction d'une société de  savoir", fassent également partie intégrante de tous les programmes de l'UNESCO, notamment dans ses activités en  direction de l'Afrique.
14.7 Il en va de même pour la lutte contre la pandémie du VIH/sida, particulièrement en matière de prévention et de  recherche. A cet égard, je me dois de signaler que le Cameroun a mis au point une stratégie complémentaire de lutte  contre la pandémie dans tout son système éducatif. Nous comptons donc sur l'appui de l'UNESCO dans ce domaine  pour la mise sur pied d'une structure sous-régionale de prévention et de recherche.
14.8 Mon pays attache une grande importance à l'utilisation des nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la  communication pour élargir l'accès à l'éducation, en garantir la qualité et réduire le fossé numérique, nouveau facteur de  retombée possible dans le sous-développement.
14.9 Expression vivante de son unité nationale, dans la diversité linguistique et la multiplicité des façons de vivre, la  culture retient toujours l'attention du Cameroun. La promotion de la diversité culturelle à travers l'échange des biens et  services culturels participe de cette même préoccupation, car c'est le moyen de permettre aux pays du Sud, notamment  ceux d'Afrique, de faire connaître leur art et leur culture. Il faudrait aussi, s'agissant toujours de ce domaine, rééquilibrer  et rendre plus représentative la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Nos cultures font partie intégrante du patrimoine culturel  de l'humanité et doivent s'exprimer sans complexe ni entrave. Nous pensons - et nous osons le proclamer quoi qu'on en  dise - qu'il n'y a pas de cultures majeures ni de cultures mineures. Toutes sont des cultures du monde, du monde des  hommes qui doivent être au rendez-vous du donner et du recevoir dans ce nouveau village planétaire. C'est ici le lieu de  rendre un hommage appuyé au discours du Président Chirac, discours digne de l'intelligence de la France, discours  digne de sa grande générosité et digne d'un grand homme d'Etat attaché depuis toujours au progrès des pays en voie de  développement et de l'Afrique. Ce discours, j'en suis sûr, stimulera nos réflexions et nos actions futures. Le XXIe siècle  devra être celui du pluralisme culturel et du pluralisme démocratique, ou alors il ne sera qu'un cycle infernal de conflits.
14.10 Il n'est plus besoin d'insister sur la nécessité de renforcer la coopération et la complémentarité du Programme  "Information pour tous" et du Programme international pour le développement de la communication (PIDC). Dans cette  perspective, le Cameroun et l'Afrique attendent beaucoup du Sommet mondial sur la société de l'information prévu en
2003. Il s'agira de doter l'Afrique de ressources suffisantes en vue de la définition d'une plate forme régionale facilitant  une participation optimale du continent à ce forum universel.
14.11 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, compte tenu de tout ce qui précède, l'UNESCO a  les moyens matériels et humains de consolider sa présence et de faire connaître davantage ses activités. Une synergie  véritable des efforts nationaux et de la coopération internationale s'impose afin de permettre à notre Organisation de  relever le grand défi qui consiste à acheminer l'humanité vers un monde pluriel plus équitable, plus heureux, plus  pacifique, bref réellement humain. Pour terminer Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je  souhaite plein succès à la 31e session de la Conférence générale. Je vous remercie de votre bienveillante attention.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Guillermo Fernández de Soto,  distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia. Excellency, you have the floor.
(16.1) Mr FERNÁNDEZ DE SOTO (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):   Your Excellency Mr Ahmad Jalali, President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Ms Sonia Mendieta de  Badaroux, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished Heads of Delegations, Permanent Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen. Mr President, first of all I should like to  congratulate you on your election as President of the General Conference and to pledge my delegation’s firm support to  make your task a success. This session of the General Conference faces a major challenge: helping UNESCO to find a  response to the terrible events that took place a few weeks ago and to examine their implications for culture, education and  the Organization’s role. None of us doubts the fact that at the beginning of the third millennium we are entering a new era.  We hear about globalization, an information society and an age of knowledge; humanity can be proud and culture is  honoured. But we should reflect upon these new issues to bring them under control. While the world leadership has reacted  in an exemplary manner, we have all clearly overlooked many aspects that we must learn to address and master as a matter  of urgency.
(16.2) One of those issues is the world order. It is not enough to be certain which forces govern the world, nor to know  what has to be done to improve living standards. Now more than ever we must come to realize that globalization is not  about a world with a uniform culture but a wonderful acceptance of difference or, to quote the great philosopher Pascal,  “Diversity without unity is anarchy and unity without diversity is tyranny”. Guarantees of harmony and happiness, both  vital components of all Utopias, will not suffice. Someone rightly said that we must know who can destroy us or who can  prevent us from being what we want to be. In terms of culture, we need to unravel the enigma of who our real, or potential,  enemies are. We all know what we have lived through and we all agree upon the unreserved rejection of terrorism and on  the need for solidarity with its victims and with those who have undertaken the task of combating it. We cannot sit on the  fence. Politically and semantically we are facing a new concept, the word for which was coined in 1798 in the supplement  to the Dictionary of the French Academy. At that time it referred to the fear of an unknown future. Only over the past  century has the word come clearly to mean a force armed with indiscriminate violence that seeks to annihilate its  opposition not in order to establish another order but to generate enough anarchy for its own survival. Understanding,  analysing and discerning the reality of terrorism is one of the greatest and most practical challenges facing culture today.
(16.3) Let us not fall into the trap of depicting terrorism as a “clash of civilizations” or a “culture shock”. Cultures  confront each other through the marvellous mechanisms of questioning, irony, doubt, subtlety and the conviction that  “culture is confluence”, a meeting, a convergence and, above all, the recognition of “being a little bit of someone else” and  that each of us is part of everyone else. The non-existence of a pure civilization is one of the main guarantees of peace. Nor  should we fall into the trap – an even more perverse one – of accepting that this scourge is a “war of religions” or the  notion that we are fighting a war between Muslims and Christians. Those religions that want to make the world a more  humane place are engaged in dialogue and they evolve by proposing different values and different attitudes that enhance  human development and that of the community in which individuals live, during their brief – yet endless – time on this  earth. What we are really dealing with here is a phenomenon of criminals and fanatics who want to take by storm the arenas
316  of culture, religion and politics, to carry forward an interplay of interests typically linked with the subjugation of masses by  imposing blind obedience, by perpetuating injustice and social inequalities and by denying them freedom and democracy.
(16.4)  Paradoxically, they are perpetrating their terrible deeds by exploiting the process of globalization. Their  operations ignore frontiers and the nationality of their victims. They exploit international financial, technical and computer  networks and their complexities. One of the most worrying signs is their link with other criminal activities: arms trafficking,  illegal drugs, money laundering, cybercrime and the unlawful trade in nuclear, chemical and biological material. We must  therefore make a far more decisive and effective international effort to combat this universal phenomenon successfully.  Terrorism never takes hold in groups convinced of the values that we share, the values in the United Nations Charter.  Terrorists in general seem readily to find a reason for not being human today, with a promise to be human tomorrow.
(16.5) Mr President, distinguished Delegates, UNESCO, the agency for universal culture, should seriously address the  many fundamentalist and pseudo-scientific racist movements which are currently appearing, increasingly capable of  intellectual, psychological and physical violence. It should also urgently study the characteristics of the new era that began  on 11 September 2001, when the post-Cold War transition came to an end, an era of even greater uncertainty, one we might  define as the “Cold Peace”. Against that background, the necessity of multilateralism cannot be questioned. The  commitment of all governments to the multilateral system and cooperation is vital if we are to achieve mutual  understanding and peace. We need to work towards the universal application of the relevant treaties. As a member of the  Security Council of the United Nations, Colombia has supported all of the actions undertaken to address this phenomenon,  but we should avoid any temptation to act in a nationalistic, racist or xenophobic way or display any other forms of  prejudice or discrimination. One of the main challenges before us is to ensure that security measures do not come at the  expense of individual freedoms and fundamental rights. Our means of fighting barbarism and terrorism should be in  keeping with the principles that cement our societies and institutions and our relations as civilized States. That is the ethical  basis setting us apart from those aggressors.
(16.6) Our Organization is better equipped than any other to foster the acceptance of respect for cultures, to promote  attitudes and values that will lead to openness, tolerance, rewarding relationships and the culture of peace. This is how we  interpret the spirit that should prevail in this International Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. That dialogue should go  beyond academies and intellectuals to involve every political leader and every citizen. Instead of rhetoric we must see to  the practical application of agreements and programmes so that we can advance towards a genuine encounter between  peoples and cultures. UNESCO’s reforms, a key to this achievement, are advancing steadily thanks to the management of  the Director-General. We must quickly complete the remaining stages and make the Organization more effective and up-to- date. Above all, the world of culture urgently needs to find new definitions and new concepts of politics, coexistence,  solidarity, justice, freedom and responsibility, in order to determine and lend substance to the new values that will make it  easier to build a global conscience, bringing about the necessary consensus so that terrorism can be nipped in the bud and  denied a future. Only then we can create and enhance the peace we dream of and the peace we deserve. Peace is a right  without which no other right can truly exist.
(16.7) Mr President, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed. That wise maxim is part of UNESCO’s original ideals and is still relevant at this fragile moment in our history.  If we promote understanding and dialogue among civilizations, the effects of our responses will be more lasting. I am  certain that we can achieve this through a serious commitment to “shared responsibility”, one of the fundamental values in  the Millennium Declaration. Married to this principle, globalization could become a gateway to prosperity and growth for  all peoples and nations, a source of cultural wealth and a meeting-point for civilizations. Thank you very much.
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. We now look forward to the address of His Excellency the Honourable  Senator John Carmichael, distinguished Minister of Education of Swaziland. You have the floor, Sir.
18.1 Mr CARMICHAEL (Swaziland):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, honourable  ministers of education, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to associate myself with my distinguished  colleagues in offering you, Mr President, sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General  Conference at this 31st session. Further, my delegation wishes to commend the Director-General for the efforts that  have gone into preparing the Medium-Term Strategy. We also acknowledge the intense efforts that have gone into the  reform of the Organization and look forward to seeing the fruits of this reform translated into more focused UNESCO  programmes and activities. The impression that UNESCO is an organization that has a great number of dispersed  activities should be avoided at all costs. The revitalization of the Organisation should enhance its specialized  responsibilities within the United Nations family.
18.2 UNESCO’s commitment to fostering a culture of peace has never been more relevant than now. We continue  to witness conflicts, wars, acts of terrorism and genocides, all of which grossly violate human rights. Under these  conditions, we need to work collectively to ensure a better world, especially for our youth. The title of the Medium- Term Strategy – “Contributing to peace and human development in an era of globalization” – captures the essence of  the international setting of our times. Peace, human development and globalization are critical contemporary issues that  pose a challenge to all nations as they strive to promote peaceful interaction and minimize conflict. This has never been  more critical in the life of the United Nations than at this time.
18.3 Mr President, there is a common thread which runs through the objectives listed in the Strategy, that of  promoting the well-being of all people by putting at their disposal the benefits of education and science, communication  and information with due respect for cultural diversity. The building of human capacities, especially in developing  countries, also emerges as part of this common thread, and highlights the role of people as recipients and implementers  of ideas in the transition to knowledge societies. We applaud the inclusion of these two cross-cutting themes.  Eradication of poverty, especially extreme poverty, is critical to the observance of human rights and to the attainment of  peace and human development. The contribution of information and communication technologies to the development of  education, science and culture and the construction of a knowledge society is equally critical at this time.
18.4 Information and communication offer tremendous opportunities for exchange of information in education and  training and between cultures, but the growing inequalities between the developed and developing countries are a cause  for concern. While we applaud the potential of information and communication technology (ICT) in development, we  are aware that many communities in many countries do not have access even to rudimentary ICT. There is therefore a  great need to take deliberate steps to introduce ICT into basic education so that our youth is exposed at an early age to  this essential tool. Teacher training and other capacity building programmes should be strategic targets. Swaziland is  moving swiftly to introduce ICT in primary and secondary schools with in-service and pre-service training of teachers  conducted by the university to ensure that teachers are well prepared to conduct appropriate education of youth for the  future.
18.5 While the Medium-Term Strategy recalls that education is a fundamental human right in accordance with the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the reality is that access to education by many groups is far from being  universal in many countries on account of social and economic constraints. This applies in particular to girls and women  who continue to be the majority of illiterates and the most marginalized groups in society. While this situation limits the  achievement of the goal of creating knowledge societies, the strategies outlined in the various sections of the Medium- Term Strategy suggest a way forward. Swaziland endorses them.
18.6 Mr President, education is a means of empowering all members of society, youth and adults with knowledge  and skills to enable them to shape their lives. In this regard, education can serve as a powerful catalyst for poverty  reduction. For education to be able to influence human life, its quality and content must be carefully designed and its  delivery judiciously monitored. The Dakar goals emphasize the uplifting of the lives of the disadvantaged and the  socially marginalized. While the implementation of the Education For All agenda and the Dakar goals is the  responsibility of Member States, UNESCO’s role as a catalyst for financial and human resources mobilization is critical  to the process of implementation. In addition to Dakar, the other world conferences, in their own way, set an  international agenda for building learning societies, based on education as a lifelong pursuit. Swaziland has for many  years conducted effective literacy programmes, to such an extent that literacy is up to 76%. The University of  Swaziland has introduced a programme in distance learning to expand educational opportunities for both youth and  adults. We would appreciate support in this endeavour.
18.7 Mr President, science and technology are acknowledged as major influences on human development but their  application sometimes raises serious ethical questions. It has also been observed that their application, while beneficial  in many ways, can also have harmful effects on the environment. Swaziland supports the programmes of the  International Bioethics Committee but appeals for UNESCO to strengthen efforts to raise awareness of issues in this  area, especially among developing countries. We also call for the strengthening of the programme on renewable  energies. Africa is blessed with an abundance of sunlight; this needs to be harnessed for the betterment of the lives of  our people, especially in remote areas.
18.8 There are other issues of concern to the developing countries of Africa. Among these are food and water  security, endemic diseases and the management of the environment, especially biodiversity. Of serious concern is the  HIV/AIDS pandemic. This scourge presents a serious threat to developmental programmes in our countries. We are  losing teachers, young professionals and students in alarming numbers. The number of orphans and of households  headed by children is swelling daily. UNESCO’s programme on AIDS prevention is welcome but must be coordinated  with the many efforts in our countries.
18.9 Culture and development is a crucial issue for UNESCO and the role of cultural policies for development  needs to be much more strongly emphasized. We applaud the importance being placed on the intangible heritage. In  many of our countries, certainly in Swaziland, much of our oral tradition is being forgotten. We therefore appeal to  UNESCO to give us the necessary support to ensure that this is preserved.
18.10 Finally, Mr President, the Kingdom of Swaziland stands committed to the ideals of this Organization and looks  forward to participating actively in the programmes of UNESCO for many years to come.  (Mme Saïd Omar, Comores, prend la présidence)
19. La PRESIDENTE :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. E. M. Héctor Navarro Díaz, ministre de l'éducation, de la  culture et des sports du Venezuela.
(20.1) Mr NAVARRO DÍAZ (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):   Your Excellency Mr Ahmad Jalali, President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Ms Sonia Mendieta de  Badaroux, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO,  Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen. I should like to begin by congratulating you, Mr Jalali, on your election as  President of the General Conference and wishing you every success in the very delicate and very important task of  presiding over this 31st session.
(20.2) The personal or collective task of going back over the significance, for humanity as a whole, for all the peoples of  the world, of the dramatic events that recently took place in New York and Washington, is only worthwhile if examining  the past enables us to create a future in which such events will not be repeated. Here before you, Venezuela reaffirms its  commitment to democracy and its forthright condemnation of terrorism of every kind, acts that are totally contrary in our  view to the very essence of human rationality. This retrospection should force us to consider what we have done – or not  done – to allow terrorism to build its present strength. In this new millennium we must find alternatives to conventional  means, a genuine, lasting way of establishing a fruitful and far-reaching dialogue among civilizations. Any other reaction,  such as a war between cultures or a revival of the crusades, would be tantamount to planetary suicide. We cannot fight  terrorism with terror and we cannot add more innocent victims to the tragedy that has already happened. As President  Jacques Chirac rightly pointed out in his inaugural speech at this session, we must fight a battle for humanism against  barbarism and not a conflict of cultures or religions.
(20.3) Venezuela is reasserting its pledge to humanity and its commitment to the highest human values, in keeping with  the proclamation by the United Nations of the year 2001 as United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, by  staging a Latin American and Caribbean meeting on this vital issue to take place in Caracas from 13 to 16 November next.  Its agenda will be to find better ways of exchanging the enriching diversity of world views, and freely sharing information,  to defend cultural diversity from the standardizing risks of globalization, fully in keeping with the strategic objectives of  UNESCO. The President of the General Conference, Mr Ahmad Jalali, and other leading figures have been invited to this  meeting. At this time of confrontation, threat and uncertainty we should not go down the road of violence. We can only go  down the road to peace, a peace with tangible justice, and should not simply build one culture on the ruins of another. As  the ethical force of the United Nations and a world forum for peace, UNESCO should play a decisive leading role, possibly  even more extensive than that played by it in the twentieth century.
(20.4) Energetically committed to structural transformations in the quest for equity and social justice, Venezuela  enthusiastically supports the Director-General’s initiatives for reforming the Organization aimed at making optimum use of  resources for the essential programmes that give the Organization its raison d’être, including the Courier, UNESCO’s  flagship publication. With equal enthusiasm we support the principles adopted at Dakar, lifelong education, quality  teaching, ready access to technologies, knowledge as a universal value, the promotion of science for the service of the  world’s peoples, the preservation of the environment and sustainable development, and the need for democratic rotation in  international organizations. All of this must be achieved on the basis of plurality, cultural diversity and respect for human  rights, without forgetting the pressing problems of poverty and the ideals of a knowledge society. In short, we adhere to  UNESCO’s aims, proposals and plans for bringing about a future that unites and encourages us, one that will bring us  closer together and that we can bequeath to future generations.
(20.5) In accordance with these major commitments, Venezuela is focusing on strengthening its education system and  combating exclusion: only two years ago over a million children (17% of Venezuela’s school-age population) did not  attend school but are now enrolled and receiving at least one meal a day. President Hugo Chávez has appealed to the  nations of the world to reduce military spending and increase investment in education. In Venezuela we have already taken  important steps in that direction: over the past three years the proportion of the national budget spent on defence has shown
320  a definite gradual decrease and the percentage spent on education, culture, sport, and science and technology has been  steadily increased. Many military facilities have been converted into schools and the engineering units of the armed forces  are actively involved in a massive plan to build schools and repair school buildings.
(20.6) The “Escuelas Bolivarianas”, run according to the ideals of Simón Bolívar, the Liberator of Peoples, are the  ultimate expression of our concept of quality education. This project has been phased in since 1999 and currently 600,000  children receive daylong attention at 2,200 schools. With the aim of a comprehensive education, they are taught a range of  values along with art, culture and sport; they receive meals and medical and dental care and take part in community  activities. Over a million children are being taught how to use computers, with at least two hours of classes a week, and by  the first quarter of the year 2002 every municipality in Venezuela will have at least one free computer centre.
(20.7) May I thank UNESCO for its support for the various cultural, scientific and communication activities that we are  undertaking in Venezuela and for the various participation projects already approved and under way. Proof of our links are  the two meetings earlier this year, in Caracas and Paris, between President Chávez and Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura,  enabling already productive relations to be made even closer. We welcome the existence in our country of the UNESCO  International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean – it does invaluable work and can count on  our unreserved support – and the declaration of the Ciudad Universitaria de Caracas (Caracas University campus) as part of  the human heritage, to join the City of Coro and the Canaima National Park on the World Heritage List.
(20.8) Venezuela is opening up to the world but we reject unbridled globalization, in particular the perverse form of  globalization that is being imposed, entailing a doctrinaire approach, oppressive economies and inquisitorial systems: in  other words, globalization without a human face. We are advocating the opposite values, a universal flow of all kinds of  ideas and knowledge, based on equity, multipolarity and planetary equilibrium, aiming at human dignity on a shared planet,  free from discrimination, tyranny, persecution and threats of any kind. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of  globalization but only if it means bread for all and justice for all.
21.1 La PRESIDENTE :   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je crois que vous mériteriez vous aussi un prix. Permettez-moi donc de vous  remettre symboliquement ce prix.
21.2 Je donne maintenant la parole à S. E. Mme Lucija Čok, ministre de l'éducation, de la science et des sports de la  Slovénie.
22.1 Mme ČOK (Slovénie) :   Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d'abord de présenter mes félicitations au Président de  la Conférence générale pour son élection.
22.2 Nous avons devant nous le projet de Stratégie à moyen terme, un document élaboré en consultation avec toutes  les régions, où sont présentés les stratégies, les moyens et les outils qui nous permettront d'atteindre et de réaliser les  grands objectifs de l'UNESCO.
22.3 Les derniers événements dans le monde nous forcent, en tant que délégués des Etats membres, à prendre plus  que jamais conscience des responsabilités que l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO impose à ses membres. Dans l'appel  rédigé par le Réseau slovène des écoles associées après les attentats terroristes qui ont frappé New York et Washington,  les jeunes exigent qu'il soit mis un terme à la violence et au terrorisme sous toutes leurs formes et demandent aux  adultes de leur assurer un avenir qui leur appartienne.
22.4 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, notre réponse au terrorisme doit être la suivante : offrir plus  d'éducation à tous, promouvoir le développement durable, et continuer à renforcer la tolérance et la compréhension, le  respect envers les autres et le refus définitif de tous les dogmes qui menacent la paix et la stabilité dans le monde. Ce  n'est certes pas en augmentant les moyens octroyés aux instances militaires que l'on contribuera à la réalisation de ces  objectifs. La Stratégie à moyen terme devrait viser à renforcer la culture de la paix, à favoriser l'émergence de la société  du savoir et à mettre en place les conditions nécessaires au développement durable.
22.5 La coopération internationale ne peut se développer qu'en favorisant une ouverture sur tous les milieux et qu'en  mettant fin à l'exclusion de certaines sociétés. L'Europe du Sud-Est ne fait pas exception. C'est pourquoi notre  gouvernement s'attache à faire en sorte que cette partie de l'Europe reprenne toute sa place dans la communauté  internationale. Il faudrait à cet effet aider ces pays à prendre eux-mêmes l'initiative de façon qu'ils puissent mettre à  profit l'expérience des autres et atteindre leurs propres objectifs. En revanche, vouloir à tout prix leur faire accepter des  modèles extérieurs pour la solution de leurs problèmes et la mise en oeuvre de cette solution ne fait que susciter de  nouveaux problèmes. Les sociétés extérieures à cette région, de même que les organisations internationales, y compris  l'UNESCO, doivent oublier les stéréotypes concernant les pays de l'Europe du Sud-Est. Cela est vrai aussi pour mon  propre pays, la Slovénie, souvent assimilée aux pays engagés dans la guerre que connaissent depuis plusieurs années les  Balkans. C'est précisément la Slovénie qui, grâce à sa position et à ses expériences, contribue à résoudre la crise dans
321  les Balkans. Je tiens à dire que la Slovénie compte parmi les pays donateurs qui financent le Pacte de stabilité. Toutes  les activités entreprises dans le cadre de ce programme, et tout particulièrement la création prochaine, à Ljubljana, par la  Slovénie et l'Autriche, du Centre d'études sur les politiques éducatives en Europe, témoignent de l'importance du rôle de  la Slovénie dans le processus de la restauration de la paix dans cette région.
22.6 Madame la Présidente, je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour féliciter le Directeur général de l'UNESCO et ses  collaborateurs des efforts qu'ils déploient pour réformer l'Organisation, efforts qui commencent à porter leurs fruits,  ainsi que pour définir de nouvelles stratégies. Notre gouvernement tient à leur exprimer son soutien et est prêt à  participer activement à la mise en oeuvre de ces réformes et de ces stratégies, en particulier par l'intermédiaire de la  Commission nationale slovène pour l'UNESCO. Je considère en effet que ce sont les commissions nationales qui en tant  qu'éléments structurels, contribuent le plus sur le plan organisationnel, à la réalisation des missions de l'UNESCO aux  niveaux local, national et international. Dans le cadre de ces efforts il importe à mon sens de prendre en considération  l'ensemble des résultats et des rapports finaux de toutes les conférences mondiales de l'UNESCO ainsi que les  contributions des différentes commissions notamment la Commission Delors, qui ont présenté leur vision de l'UNESCO  au XXIe siècle. Ce que je voudrais souligner, c'est qu'il faut renforcer les stratégies propres à jeter les bases d'une  société du savoir et d'un progrès permanent. L'UNESCO se doit d'ouvrir toutes les voies qui mènent au savoir, de  renforcer la solidarité intellectuelle et d'aider à éliminer l'analphabétisme sous toutes ses formes. C'est avant tout en  offrant à chacun une éducation de qualité dans sa langue maternelle que l'on y contribuera le mieux.
22.7 Nombre des activités lancées en 2001 dans le cadre de l'Année européenne des langues renforcent notre  conviction que la langue est l'un des éléments fondamentaux de la culture et de l'identité d'une nation, d'une minorité  nationale ou d'un groupe ethnique. La préservation d'une langue suppose son utilisation sur un pied d'égalité dans les  domaines de la communication, de la création artistique et de la protection des valeurs liées au patrimoine culturel.  L'histoire humaine puise sa richesse dans la diversité, qui doit donc être favorisée et sauvegardée. Dans le domaine  culturel, la mondialisation a des effets positifs et d'autres négatifs ; les premiers assurent le progrès et l'essor de la  culture et du patrimoine culturel, les seconds, qui résultent de la promotion de cultures dominantes, mettent surtout en  danger les langues et les cultures des petites nations et des cultures minoritaires. La langue slovène étant une langue peu  répandue, pourrait, grâce aux efforts de l'UNESCO, prendre son essor et se voir reconnue dans le cadre de la promotion  de la diversité culturelle. L'UNESCO est en effet la mieux à même de faire adopter des normes internationales dans ce  domaine et de mettre à contribution des spécialistes de la formulation de politiques culturelles.
22.8 La mondialisation est, en principe, acceptée comme un fait. En revanche, nous constatons que dans les  domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO, nous nous heurtons à nombre de dilemmes, auxquels il ne serait possible  d'apporter des réponses qu'avec la collaboration de tous les Etats membres et le déploiement efficace des potentialités  intellectuelles de l'Organisation. La science a un rôle majeur à jouer : elle doit contribuer au progrès permanent en  mettant le savoir au service des processus d'intégration. Il ne saurait y avoir de recherche de qualité si l'on ne respecte  pas certains principes éthiques au stade de ses applications. Il importe que les jeunes chercheurs soient le plus tôt  possible associés aux activités de développement industriel.
22.9 Nous voudrions enfin que les femmes participent pleinement à toutes les sphères d'activité et à toutes les  décisions. Cet objectif sera atteint si nous promouvons des cultures institutionnelles qui respectent l'égalité entre les  sexes et prennent en compte le caractère spécifique du rôle de la femme dans la société, qui refusent les stéréotypes et  rejettent les mesures favorisant l'exclusion et condamnant la femme à une condition injuste. Mesdames et Messieurs, je  vous remercie de votre attention.
23. La PRESIDENTE :   Merci, Madame la Ministre. Je donne la parole à S. E. Mme Gennet Zewide, ministre de l'éducation de  l'Ethiopie.
24.1 Ms ZEWIDE (Ethiopia):   Madam President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, permit me to express my sincere congratulations and best wishes on your election to the presidency of the  General Conference of UNESCO at its 31st session. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my special  appreciation to H.E. Ms Moserová for the successful accomplishment of her tasks as President of the General  Conference over the last two years.
24.2 Madam President, like other speakers here, I wish to underline how recent events have once again affirmed the  need for strengthening the values on which UNESCO is founded. The terrorist acts committed against targets in the  United States have shaken us deeply. Today, we are all searching for the meaning of, and for ways to deal with, the  terrorism in our midst. Ethiopia, as a country that has repeatedly faced terrorism, supports all efforts, including the  action taken by UNESCO, directed at dealing with the conditions and situations that constitute the fertile breeding  ground from which the seeds of terrorism emerge.
24.3 Madam President, peace, a fundamental objective of UNESCO, is a scarce commodity in our sub-region of the  Horn of Africa. Ethiopia continues to strive to safeguard at a minimum the level of peace now existing in the Horn  while searching for solutions to still unresolved disputes. Our efforts are in line with those of the United Nations and the  African Union.
24.4 Since the last session of the General Conference, Madam President, the second democratic nation-wide  legislative elections have been held in Ethiopia and a peaceful transfer from one President to another took place for the  first time just ten days ago. As a multicultural, multinational and multireligious country, Ethiopia recognizes that  respect for diversity is an essential component of living together in one country and as part of the global community.  Without tolerance, there is neither peace nor a future.
24.5 Clearly the best guarantee for peace is development and the hope of a bright future. With this objective, we are  working to implement comprehensive economic and social development policies based at the grassroots level and  centred in rural communities. This involves, above all, primary education, basic health services, food self-sufficiency  and the eradication of poverty. In the last two years in Ethiopia, curriculum reform has been further extended to  embrace civic education at all levels beyond the primary stage. In the field of justice, the penal code is under review to  bring it into line with the norms of modern society and governance.
24.6 Madam President, let me now briefly turn to the major programmes of our Organization, UNESCO. In regard  to education, Ethiopia is committed to the Dakar Framework for Action, which reflects our education and training  policy and strategy aimed at the provision of universal primary education by the year 2015. As a result, the enrolment of  both boys and girls has increased significantly. As, in Africa, educating girls has a direct impact on poverty eradication,  we urge UNESCO, among other things, to renew its commitment to further assist the Forum for African Women  Educationalists (FAWE). I also wish to take this opportunity to draw your attention to UNESCO’s International  Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa, an important UNESCO initiative on our continent. However, if the Institute is  to live up to expectations, it will have to be strengthened materially and financially and be given more human resources.
24.7 Madam President, the integration and incorporation of science and technology into the daily lives of  communities should be a matter of priority for all of us. We in Ethiopia are working to create the necessary expertise to  manage science and technology to ensure that it is placed at the centre of our development endeavours. In an effort to  encourage national scientists, we have for some time been carrying out a Local Research Grant Programme, funding  over 400 research projects in order to build scientific and technological capacity in the country. Some of these projects  concern water, a critical issue for us in Ethiopia.
24.8 Madam President, Ethiopia deeply shares UNESCO’s concern about the major threats to water resources and  their associated ecosystems. We are conducting hydrological studies and programmes to deal with them, and we need  UNESCO’s cooperation. The equitable utilisation of trans-boundary rivers is a matter of central concern to Ethiopia and  other countries in the Nile basin, and the support of UNESCO for this goal is essential. In another area of scientific  development, particularly with respect to improving the state of basic space science and astronomy, Ethiopia is  cooperating with South Africa following the Statement of Commitment at the meeting of African Ministers of  Education. I would also like to mention that Ethiopia supports the UNESCO Pilot African Academic Exchange Project.
24.9 Madam President, as a land of varied ethnic cultures, Ethiopia believes that it is to its own and the world’s  advantage to fully endorse UNESCO’s programmes and strategy under Major Programme IV. We have elaborated a  cultural policy but need to work more extensively to protect and conserve heritage sites. UNESCO’s efforts in  mobilizing international campaigns and the allocation of funds for this purpose have been, and we believe will continue  to be, given the proper attention. We have relied on the principled position of UNESCO concerning the restitution of the  cultural heritage to its countries of origin. Ethiopia is still seeking the return of the Axum Obelisk from Rome, over
60 years after it was looted from our country, and 50 years after agreements were signed providing for its return. We  count on UNESCO’s continued support in this matter.
24.10 Madam President, Ethiopia welcomes UNESCO’s efforts to promote freedom of expression and we endorse  the activities described under Major Programme V. Almost a decade has passed since the emergence of a vibrant private  press in Ethiopia. The quality and credibility of the media, however, leave a lot to be desired, and our main media  training centre, which UNESCO helped to establish, is working to develop media expertise further. It would be remiss  of me not to state that the centre would benefit from renewed attention by UNESCO.
24.11 Madam President, as UNESCO endeavours to become more effective and visible, you will agree with me that  it is important for UNESCO’s cluster offices to function well. This requires adequate staffing and financing and  programmes that make an impact. In the case of the cluster office in Addis Ababa, we trust that UNESCO will make  sure that it is fully staffed to cover the four programme areas essential to the sub-region.
24.12 In conclusion, Madam President, Ethiopia expresses its support for the reform and revitalization of UNESCO.  Like others, we feel that UNESCO is our organization, and that it promotes values that are increasingly relevant to our  day and age. The issues are many. The challenges are daunting. But we are all on the same boat heading in the same  direction. UNESCO supports us. And we support UNESCO. I thank you.
(26.1)  Mr ELTAIF (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabic):   Madam President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, heads and members of  delegations, peace be upon you. We Muslims say “Peace be upon you”, the greeting introduced by the Prophet Muhammad,  peace and blessings be upon him. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Jamahiriya, I have the pleasure  of greeting you and participating with you in the 31st session of UNESCO’s General Conference, which is taking place at a  time when the world is undergoing major upheavals. I should also like to add my voice to all those that have congratulated  Mr Ahmad Jalali on his election as President of this Conference, because of his experience, management skills and wisdom.
(26.2) Madam President, as my country condemns all forms of terrorism, be they perpetrated by States, individuals or  organizations, it condemns the terrorist attacks on the United States, as it condemned them in Libya in 1986, in Palestine in  the past and today, and throughout the world. Madam President, our Conference is being held at a time when the very  existence of the world is under threat, since terrorism, ignorance, poverty and disease are all factors that hinder  development and growth and are even a threat to human life and its very survival. We must stand shoulder to shoulder to  work together to overcome the retrograde forces threatening us from every side and combat whatever is likely to hinder our  development. Injustice and failure to recognize and grant the full, legitimate rights of others, not dealing with others as  people who are put on earth to live a full life, enjoy freedom and realize their hopes and ambitions in an atmosphere of  mutual respect and cooperation in the interest of the common good, these are all factors to be borne in mind when  discussing the causes, motives and roots of terrorism. While we strongly condemn terrorism of every kind, we firmly  believe it to be caused and fuelled by these factors, for insensitivity to other people’s pain and suffering and failure to  respond to their legitimate demands will breed resentment and hatred and eventually lead to violence. Madam President,  today more than ever before we must stand side by side to oppose the dangers besetting us and the retrograde forces in the  world that are holding us back. We will only be able to do this if our thoughts, words and deeds are similar, if we believe  we share a single human destiny and the same goals, irrespective of religion, language, gender, race or colour and, in  particular, if we reject racial discrimination and other forms of supremacism and exploitation and put an end to the  domination of the weak by the strong. Madam President, there are extremely poor peoples in the world who live at  subsistence level, barely able to obtain a crust of bread, deprived of all of life’s pleasures. It is the duty of all of us to look  upon them with compassion, to continue to show concern for them and assist them, because social justice requires that we  remove the barriers between rich and poor so that prosperity is extended to all. Ignorance will come to an end when  everything is shown as it really is, as Mu’ammar Al-Ghadafi said in the Green Book. Now, more than ever, we need  UNESCO, since its Constitution states that the wide diffusion of culture and knowledge, and the education of humanity on  the basis of the principles of justice, liberty and peace are indispensable to human dignity, and that ignorance of each  other’s ways and lives has been a source, throughout the history of mankind, of suspicion and mistrust between the peoples  of the world through which their differences have all too often broken into war.
(26.3) I endorse what President Chirac said in his speech to this Conference when he drew attention to the importance of  learning the lessons of the past, mutual respect for values, cultures and identities, and acknowledging that the contemporary
326  civilization of the world is the product of the various civilizations that have gone before, all of which have contributed to  building this culturally diverse world.
(26.4) The task before us is difficult: we are entering the third millennium, but one fifth of the adult population is  illiterate, half of our children do not go to school, four-fifths of those in work worldwide are threatened with unemployment  and one third with thirst, while new viruses and infectious diseases are frequently challenging science to come up with new  ways of preventing and providing protection against them. Have we asked ourselves how the culture of peace can be  disseminated when there are so many conflicts in the world, the formation of blocs is counterbalanced by the fragmentation  of petty states, and economic development is failing to keep pace with the increase in the numbers of the poor? But the  answer is always that education, science and knowledge are the basis of everything. It is a principle that education and  knowledge are everyone’s natural right, so I support what is said in the Dakar Forum’s declaration on Education for All,  calling upon the international community to eradicate illiteracy through the work of this Organization. I also support the  decisions of the Geneva Conference of the International Bureau of Education concerning the importance of education and  learning to live together in mutual respect. This will not be achieved unless we apply the principles of international  solidarity and natural justice to narrow the gap between those who are rich and poor in knowledge. UNESCO has a duty to  play a leading role in this in order to produce the mechanisms to achieve equality and balance, using information  technology to narrow those differences, with no economic restrictions, through free transfer of knowledge, respect for  identity and human rights in peace. Ladies and gentlemen, in our era offences have been committed which that great  statesman Gandhi warned against when he said, “We live in a world of politics without principle, commerce without  morality, wealth without work, knowledge without character, pleasure without conscience and worship without sacrifice”.
(26.5) Information technology is now the most important tool of the culture industry and its most important social issue,  just as the educational, scientific and recreational applications of culture are the decisive applications that have propelled  information technology to new heights under the pressure of relentless demand for technology, known as cultural  applications. The design of educational programmes has required more powerful computers to interact dynamically and  naturally with learners. The written and audio-visual heritage requires great electronic storage capacity and flexible, rapid  retrieval mechanisms.
(26.6) I welcome the efforts of the Director-General concerning the programmes he has submitted to this session, the  Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity and the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. The  Jamahiriya will take part in drafting the international convention for the safeguarding of the oral heritage when it hosts the  expert meetings of the African and Arab region early next year. I also endorse the Director-General’s endeavours with  respect to the importance of safeguarding the historical heritage of the City of Jerusalem as the prime symbol of the human  heritage.  In the name of my country, I also wish to stress the importance of writing history in a completely new spirit so  that the international community can learn about the origins, cultures and customs of other peoples and tolerance may thus  be disseminated. I support the Director-General’s efforts to complete UNESCO’s various history programmes and using  them, on the pattern of the marvellous result achieved by The General History of Africa.
(26.7) Similarly, UNESCO’s ethical mission has made clear to me the importance of joining forces, respecting other  cultures, and capitalizing upon various means of information and communication. In this connection, I support the  Director-General’s endeavours concerning the importance of using information and communication media, including the  press, to develop dialogue between cultures and civilizations and enable them to learn about each other. I call upon the  Director-General to implement the United Nations programme on dialogue among civilizations, the execution of which has  been entrusted to UNESCO.
(26.8) In the scientific field, my country supports the UNESCO programme to draft standards and outline policies on  ethics for the purpose of raising the awareness of decision- and policy-makers in relation to the new challenges. I recall, for  example, the work of the International Bioethics Committee, the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge  and the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights, among many others. I hope the Organization will  do all it can to help Member States form international networks in order to exchange knowledge in this field. Furthermore, I  believe the exchange of knowledge and the related networks should not be limited to the subject of ethics, but should  include everything connected with the applications of modern technology to sustainable development.
(26.9) I also support the United Nations water programme, leadership of which has been entrusted to UNESCO. I wish  every success to UNESCO’s regional conference on water in arid regions to be held in Tripoli, Libya in January 2002, one  of the series of international conferences and meetings being held to prepare for the World Water Forum in Kyoto.
(26.10) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps right for us to reflect upon human culture, education and  training, although those peoples who are starving and whose children are dying in their thousands, refugee peoples,  including the Palestinians, even if they are present at this meeting, remain distant from the discussions. I emphasize that it  is by combating backwardness and disseminating knowledge based on the standards of justice, equality, and peace, and  strengthening the developing peoples so that they may determine their own destiny and catch up with technological  progress that people will be given the feeling that they are living at the same time and in the same world. Otherwise, we  shall be compelled to say that there are peoples who live in another world and do not recognize the twenty-first century as  their own.
(26.11) I should like to end by saying that I have every confidence in the Director-General’s efforts and cooperation in  implementing UNESCO’s reform programme and working towards decentralization in order to improve forward planning,  which is plain in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, which embraces the spirit and challenges of the age. I should
327  also like to express my thanks and gratitude to the Chairperson and Members of the Executive Board for 2000-2001 for all  they have done to assist the Director-General in carrying out these ambitious plans and adopting the programmes included  in the next phase. Ladies and gentlemen, our participation in the General Conference at this of all times is important, since  it is an international intellectual forum at which we discuss ideas about a better future for ourselves and future generations  and we have the opportunity to achieve a clear, common view about a new world in which the human values of justice and  genuine understanding prevail everywhere.  (Mr Jalali resumes the chair)   :א ٢٧,١ א  א א א א א ، א א א  .א
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Mr Ammar Eltaif, delegate of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.  (The President continues in English)
27.2 I would like now to call upon His Excellency Mr Zviad Chumburidze, distinguished Deputy Minister of  Foreign Affairs of Georgia. You have the floor, Sir.
28.1 Mr CHUMBURIDZE (Georgia):    Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, first of all I am pleased to congratulate Mr Jalali on his election as President of the General Conference of  UNESCO. It is an honour to address you on the occasion of the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO  and to convey the best wishes of the President of Georgia, Mr Eduard Shevardnadze.
28.2 This session is particularly important, as it marks the second anniversary of reforms launched to secure for  UNESCO its proper place in the twenty-first century. In its capacity as a UNESCO Executive Board Member, Georgia  has been closely involved in the reform process. Thanks to our joint effort, we have succeeded in tackling different  dimensions of this complex reform. In the course of this biennium, UNESCO has been progressing towards a cost- efficient and results-oriented decentralized structure. In this respect, it is important to strengthen the role of National  Commissions, which are the strategic pillar of the UNESCO system. It is expedient to consolidate further a tailor-made  approach, with attention given to the capabilities of National Commissions in various parts of the globe. Relevant  measures have been taken to make the UNESCO Participation Programme more straightforward and transparent. These  measures will provide for a release of more funds for countries with the most pressing needs. Georgia welcomes the  programme concentration efforts, which are reflected in the forthcoming Medium-Term Strategy and in the biennial  Programme and Budget of UNESCO. These documents are a step towards clarity and realism.
28.3 Mr President, let me extend our gratitude for the support provided by the Organization in the course of this  biennium. Georgia has implemented many projects within the framework of the Participation Programme and of the  regular programme of UNESCO. We hope for UNESCO’s continuous support in the future and commit ourselves to  being a reliable partner.
28.4 We endorse the priority assigned to Education for All and count on UNESCO’s backing in implementing the  Dakar Framework for Action in Georgia. We support further development of the global network of UNESCO Chairs,  which can be an important tool for transfer of know-how and for development cooperation. As the next biennium sees  the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the UNESCO Associated Schools Project (ASP), Georgia supports efforts  aimed at better subregional ASP-related strategizing and the international networking of Associated Schools.
28.5 We support UNESCO’s efforts related to the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage and thank  UNESCO for helping us to devise a framework for the preservation of the famous Georgian polyphonic singing. This  initiative by Mr Matsuura is a good response to the dilemma of “cultural identity versus globalization”.
28.6 Georgia is engaged in excellent cooperation with the UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Inclusion of the three  Georgian monuments in the World Heritage List is a source of pride and inspiration. UNESCO is now Georgia’s partner  in developing a master plan for the rehabilitation of the world heritage site of the ancient capital of Georgia, Mtskheta.  In the hope of further consolidating this cooperation, Georgia has presented its candidature for World Heritage  Committee membership. We would appreciate support from the Member States. Apart from the excellent work of the  World Heritage Centre, there is another important set of operational activities performed by the UNESCO Division of  Cultural Heritage. This Division has been helpful in building human capacity in the sphere of cultural heritage  preservation in the South Caucasus.
28.7 Georgia welcomes the fact that issues such as cooperative management of shared ecosystems and water  resources management have been adequately reflected in UNESCO’s Programme and Budget. We count on UNESCO’s  support in implementing the subregional project proposal “From Environmental Protection towards Political Stability  and Sustainable Development in the Caucasus”, which is being developed in cooperation with the Secretariat of  UNESCO. Georgia considers expedient UNESCO’s active involvement in the implementation of the World Solar  Programme. This forward-looking programme is the major inter-agency initiative of the United Nations and deserves to  be UNESCO’s top priority in the future.
28.8 Georgia welcomes the creation of the Information for All Programme which, together with the International  Programme for the Development of Communication, is an important tool in creating a learning society. We are  currently seeking membership in the Intergovernmental Councils of both programmes and would appreciate the support  of the Member States.
28.9 Ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2000-2001, with support from UNESCO and in coordination with our  colleagues from Armenia and Azerbaijan, Georgia hosted a series of subregional events in the areas of education,  science, culture and communication. These activities have initiated the intersectoral subregional programme  “Caucasus”, which was endorsed at the 30th session of the General Conference of UNESCO. We believe that this  programme is well placed to contribute to lasting peace in our region. The “Caucasus” Programme is in line with the  Peaceful Caucasus Initiative put forward by the President of Georgia, Mr Eduard Shevardnadze, in 1996. It corresponds  to Georgia’s regional policy, which seeks the transformation of the South Caucasus into an area of mutually beneficial  cooperation.
28.10 Honourable delegates, the “Caucasus” Programme and other activities that traditionally constitute the nucleus  of UNESCO-Georgian cooperation are subregional, regional and interregional in their scope. They are designed to  promote the concept of a dialogue of cultures against all manifestations of intolerance. The concept of a dialogue of  cultures gained qualitatively new impetus in 1995, with the landmark UNESCO-sponsored International Forum “For  Solidarity against Intolerance, For a Dialogue of Cultures” that took place in Tbilisi. The tragic events which staggered  the world on 11 September call for our concerted effort in the fight against aggressive separatism, xenophobia,  fanaticism and hatred. In this context, the role of UNESCO in promoting a dialogue of cultures has become particularly  salient. Let me conclude my speech with the words of the President of Georgia Mr Eduard Shavardnadze: “Save culture  and culture will save the nation”. Thank you very much.
29. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency Mr André Mba Obame, distinguished  Minister of National Education and Spokesman of the Government of Gabon. Excellency, you have the floor.
30.1 M. MBA OBAME (Gabon) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, je voudrais tout d'abord, au nom du Gabon, me féliciter  vivement du choix de la Conférence générale qui s'est porté sur votre personne et donc sur la République islamique  d'Iran, votre pays. Votre brillante élection et votre longue expérience de l'Organisation sont pour nous la garantie du  succès des travaux dont vous assurez la direction au cours de la présente session. Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif, permettez-moi de joindre mes compliments à ceux qui vous ont déjà été adressés et que vous méritez  amplement, compliments qui, tous, soulignent l'excellence du travail du Conseil tout au long de votre mandat. Monsieur  le Directeur général, votre brillante élection il y a deux ans à la tête de notre Organisation était le gage d'une démarche  assurée, car nous savions que vous feriez bénéficier l'UNESCO de la richesse de votre longue et grande carrière  diplomatique. En effet, vous avez su avec perspicacité, justesse et tact, mener le processus de réformes administratives  que vous avez engagez, notamment la décentralisation. Dans ce cadre, notre pays s'honore d'abriter un bureau sous- régional. Je voudrais au nom des plus hautes autorités de mon pays, le Gabon, vous adresser nos remerciements et nos  vives félicitations pour le travail accompli.
30.2 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, les derniers événements survenus dans le monde ne sauraient nous  laisser indifférents et nous interpellent en tant que citoyens du monde et davantage en notre qualité d'éducateurs. Ces  événements réaffirment la place prépondérante de la paix et de la culture de la paix dans nos systèmes d'éducation,  conformément à l'Acte constitutif de notre Organisation : la paix, parce qu'elle est l'une des valeurs les plus chères à  l'être humain; la paix, parce qu'elle est le gage de tout développement; la paix, parce qu'elle est le socle d'une  démocratie véritable.
30.3 Pour avoir toujours prôné le dialogue, la tolérance et la paix, pour avoir souvent offert ses bons offices et sa  médiation dans la recherche de la solution des conflits qui déchirent depuis de nombreuses années notre sous-région  d'Afrique centrale et d'autres pays du continent, le Gabon et son Président, S. E. El Hadj Omar Bongo, s'autorisent à  encourager l'UNESCO à poursuivre ses efforts de promotion de la paix et de la culture de la paix.
30.4 C'est à cette même fin qu'il importe que tous les Etats membres s'engagent résolument dans le combat contre la  pauvreté, l'exclusion, l'injustice, les inégalités, le racisme, qui sont autant de maux qui compromettent lourdement la  paix dans le monde. Le thème et les recommandations de la récente session de la Conférence internationale de  l'éducation tenue à Genève "apprendre à vivre ensemble" devrait nous encourager à entrer dans une nouvelle ère, ère de  réflexion collective, tournée vers une paix partagée et une compréhension active entre tous, propre à humaniser la  mondialisation au profit de la vie, de la dignité de l'être humain et de l'interculturalité. Dans cette perspective, le Gabon  organisera l'an prochain, en collaboration avec l'UNESCO, une conférence internationale sur le dialogue interculturel et  la culture de la paix en Afrique centrale et dans la région des Grands lacs.
30.5 Monsieur le Président, distingués délégués, le Gabon se réjouit de l'orientation donnée à notre Conférence et se  félicite de la pertinence des thèmes transversaux retenus, à savoir : l'élimination de la pauvreté et la contribution des  technologies de l'information et de la communication au développement de l'éducation, de la science, et de la culture.  Ces thèmes donnent une orientation dynamique à nos programmes dont nous souhaitons que les résultats soient à la  hauteur de nos espérances, surtout pour l'Afrique, dont la majorité des Etats membres restent confrontés à de  nombreuses difficultés parmi lesquelles le chômage, la pauvreté, l'analphabétisme, l'endettement, les maladies  endémiques telles que le sida et le paludisme, le trafic des enfants et le phénomène des enfants de la rue. Aussi est-il  indispensable que l'UNESCO continue d'encourager les Etats membres à définir et à mettre en oeuvre des politiques  audacieuses en matière d'éducation et de formation, tout en tenant compte des préoccupations de nos systèmes  éducatifs.
30.6 Le Gabon, qui appuie totalement le plan d'action pour le suivi de Dakar, s'est engagé dans une politique de  réformes profondes de son système éducatif. Pour ce faire, au plan structurel, on citera parmi les nombreuses mesures  prises : la généralisation de 1'enseignement préprimaire sur l'ensemble du territoire, ouvert aux enfants de 3 à 5 ans, aux  fins de mieux les préparer à entrer dans le cycle primaire avec de meilleures dispositions et dans des conditions  optimales de réussite et l'optimisation des moyens d'éducation par la rationalisation de la gestion des ressources tant  infrastructurelles qu'humaines. Ce programme étalé sur trois ans nous a permis d'augmenter de manière significative les  capacités d'accueil à l'entrée du cycle secondaire et de porter de 33 % à 66 % le pourcentage des candidats admis au  concours d'entrée en 6e.
30.7 Dans un souci d'égalité des chances en matière d'éducation, le Gabon a amorcé une politique de gratuité du  manuel scolaire avec la distribution, depuis deux ans, de livres et de guides pédagogiques dans les disciplines  fondamentales. Plus de 900.000 livres et guides pédagogiques ont été distribués aux élèves et aux enseignants des  établissements scolaires primaires et secondaires du secteur public. Dans le domaine pédagogique, la réforme des  programmes engagée tant dans le primaire que dans le secondaire général, avec, notamment, l'approche modulaire par  compétences, permettra l'adaptation de nos programmes et contenus d'enseignement au contexte, ainsi qu'aux besoins  du marché de 1'emploi.
30.8 Par ailleurs, au moment ou nous prônons l'excellence, il est important que nous préparions nos jeunes à la  maîtrise des nouvelles technologies. C'est dans cette optique qu'un programme d'intégration de l'outil informatique dans  les établissements scolaires a été conçu, dont l'expérimentation a déjà démarré dans 25 des 100 établissements  secondaires publics du pays, grâce aux 600 ordinateurs et imprimantes gracieusement mis à la disposition du système  éducatif par le Président de la République, S. E. El Hadj Omar BONGO. L'objectif à terme est de couvrir les niveaux  primaire et secondaire publics du pays. Une dotation de même nature a été également faite à l'endroit de tous les  enseignants du secteur universitaire.
30.9 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, notre système éducatif est encore confronté à des problèmes  spécifiques qui ont un impact négatif sur son rendement. Il s'agit notamment de l'éducation des filles et de la santé de  l'enfant. S'agissant de la santé de l'enfant, il convient de souligner que c'est un facteur déterminant dans la réussite  scolaire. C'est pourquoi, le Gabon, conformément aux engagements pris en matière de lutte contre la pandémie du sida,  a fixé comme priorité dès cette rentrée académique, le développement en milieu scolaire de la prévention et de  l'éducation en matière de santé, particulièrement contre le VIH/sida. A cet effet nous mettons actuellement en place,  dans tous les établissements scolaires du primaire et du secondaire, des cellules anti-sida qui seront les relais des actions  du programme national de lutte contre le sida (PLNS).
30.10 S'agissant de l'éducation des filles, il importe de souligner que l'égal accès à l'école des garçons et des filles est  acquis. Dans le primaire, les taux de scolarisation sont, respectivement de 50,42 % de garçons et 49,58 % de filles. Dans  le premier cycle secondaire ces taux sont de 51,32 % pour les garçons et 48,68 % pour les filles. Cependant une forte  déperdition est enregistrée au niveau de la scolarité des filles dès la fin du cycle primaire (23 % en 1999). Par ailleurs,  très peu de filles optent pour des études scientifiques (environ 10 %). Le Gabon, notre pays, a donc pris conscience de  la nécessité d'une réelle prise en compte de l'éducation des filles. Un cadre institutionnel est mis en place dès cette  année scolaire en vue d'encadrer des actions spécifiques de promotion de l'éducation des filles.
30.11 Les réformes éducatives ainsi amorcées trouvent leur prolongement au niveau de l'enseignement supérieur dans  la priorité accordée à la recherche-développement, qui se veut adaptée à nos réalités nationales, dans les sciences  exactes comme dans les sciences humaines. L'orientation actuelle de délocalisation de nos pôles d'enseignement et de  recherche universitaire visent à rapprocher nos institutions universitaires du milieu socio-économique.
30.12 Monsieur le Président, distingués délégués, le Gabon, qui traverse depuis quelques années une grave crise  économique et financière, a engagé avec le concours des institutions financières internationales, d'importantes réformes  visant la bonne gouvernance et l'efficacité de la dépense. C'est cette nouvelle donne qui a rendu possible, entre autres,  de nombreuses réalisations évoquées plus haut, dans le secteur éducatif, et ce malgré la raréfaction des ressources  budgétaires, découlant principalement de la trop grande part du service de la dette dans le budget de notre pays, près de
50 %. Cette situation intenable est encore aggravée par le fait que le Gabon, seul Etat d'Afrique noire à être encore  classé dans la catégorie des pays à revenu intermédiaire, ne peut bénéficier de l'Initiative en faveur des pays pauvres très  endettés. Dans ces conditions, le Gabon sera bientôt confronté à un choix cornélien  : payer la dette ou éduquer et  soigner sa population.
30.13 La tonalité résolument prospective du Projet de programme qui nous est soumis a également appelé notre  attention sur les questions de l'environnement et de la diversité culturelle. S'agissant de la culture, le Gabon, pays pluri- ethnique, siège du Centre international des civilisations bantu, se réjouit de l'importance accordée sous ses différentes  formes, au dialogue interculturel, gage d'une meilleure compréhension entre les peuples. Dans ce sens, notre pays  organisera l'année prochaine le Festival international de la mode africaine (FIMA). Par cette rencontre, le Gabon, notre  pays, voudrait offrir à la communauté internationale un espace de dialogue inter et intraculturel où s'effaceront la  couleur, la race, la religion, et où s'exprimera pleinement le génie de la créativité universelle.
30.14 Toute cette activité témoigne de notre ferme volonté de conjuguer nos efforts avec ceux de la communauté  internationale, pour que nous ayons plus que par le passé des objectifs communs dans un monde où la pauvreté, la  maladie, l'ignorance et, plus grave encore, le terrorisme, n'auront pas besoin de passeport ou de visa. C'est, me semble-  t-il, la claire conscience de ces impératifs qui, en ouvrant les coeurs des uns aux autres, nous rapprochera davantage  dans nos différences et nos spécificités, et nous enseignera au contact d'autrui, parce que nous aurons appris à le  connaître mieux, ou moins mal, à le comprendre, à le tolérer, à l'accepter, enfin à partager les solutions autant que les  problèmes. Parce que nous aurons appris et choisi d'exprimer notre liberté essentielle : vouloir vivre ensemble. Je vous  remercie de votre attention.
31. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished Minister of Gabon, for your statement. Before I give the floor to our next  speaker, I would like to say to His Excellency the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, whose statement we  heard, that, as he ended his statement before eight, he should please not hesitate to claim his After Eight prize. I would  like now to call upon His Excellency Mr Abdul Malik Fadjar, distinguished Minister of National Education of  Indonesia. Excellency, you have the floor.
32.1 Mr FADJAR (Indonesia):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and privilege for me to represent the Indonesian people and Government at this  General Conference of UNESCO. First of all, please allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election to  preside over this august Conference. I am confident that, under your wise leadership, our deliberations, especially on the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 and the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, will come to a  successful conclusion.
32.2 We have just witnessed with deep concern and sorrow a human tragedy where thousands of innocent citizens  of the United States of America and nationals of other countries lost their lives because of terrorist attacks. On this  occasion, may I reiterate that the Government of Indonesia condemns terrorism, any terrorism, in any part of the world.  Faced with the present circumstances, UNESCO has a more crucial role than ever to play in contributing to the  prevention of conflict and violence as mandated by its Constitution – that is, to construct the defences of peace in the  minds of men. To that end, Indonesia stands ready to join hands with other Member States to develop further efforts to  enhance UNESCO’s programmes with a view to combating every factor which may provide a fertile ground for  conflicts and violence, such as marginalization and poverty.
32.3 In this context, UNESCO’s programmes on the two cross-cutting themes, namely “the eradication of poverty,  especially extreme poverty”, and “the contribution of information and communication technologies to the development  of education, science and culture”, are of paramount importance and are extremely relevant to UNESCO’s role in  contributing to the shaping of a better and peaceful world. The Indonesian delegation therefore commends the Director- General for his clear strategic objectives and progressive vision as contained in the draft Medium-Term Strategy.
32.4 Having said that, the Education For All (EFA) Programme, especially in the E-9 countries, needs to be further  emphasized. As it has already been widely acknowledged that two-thirds of the world’s illiterates are found in the E-9  countries, the success of the Organization’s efforts in this field will be largely determined by the success of the  implementation of the EFA programme in those countries. Such emphasis is insufficiently found in both the Medium- Term Strategy and the Programme and Budget for 2002-2003. Moreover, the budget allocated to the EFA programme  for E-9 countries has been substantially reduced compared to the budget for the programme of the biennium 2000-2001.  It is of great concern to us that this figure will consequently produce an adverse impact on the implementation of the  EFA programme in the E-9 countries. In the light of this, the Indonesian delegation proposes to reinforce the EFA  programme in the E-9 countries by creating a separate main line of action for that purpose.
32.5 Mr President, the present promising reform process undertaken by the Director-General warrants the support of  all Member States, including Indonesia. Such reforms should be continuously directed towards enabling UNESCO to  place priority in the allocation of its resources more effectively on the implementation of programmes. This leads me to  comment on the policy of a zero nominal growth budget which undeniably shrinks the capacity of the Organization to  respond adequately to the enormous multi-faceted challenges of the present day. However, with the current economic  situation, UNESCO is expected to perform skilfully the best with the worst.
32.6 As far as the development of education is concerned, to improve the quality and relevance of basic education  the Indonesian Government has begun to intensify students life skills in basic and secondary education. This is because  the majority of school-leavers will be entering the job market and therefore need to be better equipped with the  necessary tools. My country has also participated actively in the Associated Schools Project (ASP) Network which is  being developed primarily for the promotion of human rights, peace and democracy, as well as for the promotion of  science, environment, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue, and preservation and promotion of the natural  and cultural heritage. Through a variety of ASP projects, Indonesia is trying to inculcate in young minds respect for  human rights, and a perception of unity in diversity in a spirit of brotherhood and solidarity. With this perception, we  hope to implement better the vision of learning to live together, to live with others.
32.7 With regard to science and technology development, Indonesia has largely benefited from the Declaration of  the World Conference on Higher Education, the resolution of the UNESCO General Conference at its 30th session and  the Declaration of the World Conference on Science for the formulation of our national strategy policies for 2000-2004  with the objectives of dynamizing development momentum, explaining the socio-political order of society, promoting  sustainable economic development, restructuring of institutions for science and technology, enhancing autonomy and  excellence and synchronizing with global development.
32.8 Relating to culture, especially in regard to the draft convention concerning the protection of the underwater  cultural heritage, the Indonesian delegation expects to see the General Conference reach final consideration of the  matter. With such an international legal instrument, countries of the world will be better equipped with norms and  standard legal tools designed specially for the protection of the underwater cultural heritage for the benefit of future  generations.
32.9 Thanks to recent UNESCO assistance, Indonesia has promulgated its Press Law which can be utilized for the  purpose of promoting democracy, human rights and peace-building. We do hope that, together with UNESCO, we will  be able to formulate the new Broadcasting Law, whereby the utilization of information and communication  technologies will be boosted, and wider access to information and knowledge provided. The two laws can also become  effective tools for promoting democracy and enhancing a culture of peace and tolerance in Indonesia.
32.10 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like once again to reiterate the continuous support of the Republic of  Indonesia to the causes and ideals of UNESCO and the serious efforts undertaken by the Director-General in reforming  the Organization in order to face the challenges of the new millennium. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT:   I thank the distinguished Minister of Indonesia. I would now like to call upon His Excellency Mr Ayurzana  Tsanjid, distinguished Minister of Education, Culture and Science of Mongolia. Excellency, you have the floor.
34.1 Mr TSANJID (Mongolia):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Mongolian delegation I would like to express our sincere  congratulations to you, Mr President Ahmad Jalali, upon your unanimous election to the prestigious post of the  presidency of the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO. May I express our confidence that under your  experienced and able guidance we will achieve results expected from this session.
34.2 Mr President, the Mongolian Government considers the recent bloody attack in the United States of America  committed by international terrorists as a crime against democracy and freedom of humanity. I would like to say that we
332  must, with one voice, oppose and fight this act of terrorism against humanity and civilization. The reasons of this  terrible crime may be different. However, it is indeed my deep conviction that UNESCO’s main role is to contribute,  within its mandate, to a more dignified way of life for all on our planet, where dialogue among civilizations and mutual  respect for the diversity of culture should prevail.
34.3 Mr President, education is one of the highest priority sectors in the policy and strategy of the Mongolian  Government, and it pursues a policy of developing and extending the education system of Mongolia to reach the world  standard, bearing in mind the current needs of society. In this connection I would like to say that the Government of  Mongolia is paying more attention to improving the coverage, quality, importance and efficiency of education; and to  renovating and democratizing the education system.
34.4 I would like to emphasize here that the projects on non-formal and distance education and Community  Learning Centres implemented in Mongolia in cooperation with UNESCO have proved valuable for strengthening the  structure of non-formal and distance education, both newly established in Mongolia.
34.5 Mongolia fully supports the Dakar Declaration. The Government attaches great importance to the  implementation of the Dakar Framework for Action and is ready to cooperate with others in the future. In accordance  with the Platform of Action to implement the provisions of the Dakar Declaration, the Government is taking specific  measures to achieve the EFA goals by 2015: to decrease the number of drop-outs, to educate and re-train adults, to  upgrade technical and vocational education, to upgrade the quality of education in higher educational institutions to  world standards, and to improve and reorganize the education system at all levels
34.6 I would like to take this opportunity to say that we highly appreciate the efforts of the UNESCO Beijing Office  and UNESCO PROAP in Bangkok on the reduction and prevention of the consequences in the education sector of  Mongolia of the extreme natural disaster named “Dzud” in recent years. We consider it important to expand our  cooperation in the future within the framework of the decentralization policy.
34.7 Mr President, my delegation emphasizes the wish of the Mongolian Government to further develop  cooperation with UNESCO in the field of science. As the role and responsibility of science is increasing in society,  Mongolia actively supports UNESCO’s policy and initiatives in this field. In order to implement the follow-up activities  to the World Conference on Science, which was held in Budapest, the Government of Mongolia is engaged in certain  activities aimed at creating an appropriate legal environment in the field of science. In regard to UNESCO’s  decentralization policy, we are paying more attention to the expansion of our collaboration with regional offices and  representatives in sectors such as environmental protection, biotechnology and renewable energy.
34.8 In the cultural sector, it is important to develop and strengthen the cultural identity of each nation, which is a  part of the common global civilization of humanity; to consider the role of the common culture in the development  process of nations; to increase the participation of public in cultural life; and to protect the cultural heritages of nations  for the benefit of all. Our Government attaches special importance to the improvement, development, renovation and  documentation of the tangible and intangible cultural heritage, and to the conservation and protection of this heritage for  future generations. Our Government is also interested in close cooperation with UNESCO and its Member States on  issues concerning the restoration of historical, cultural properties under State protection and the installation of the  necessary modern equipment in museums and temples for the preservation of valuable cultural properties. Our country  has submitted proposals to include several objects in the World Heritage List. In this connection, I would like to express  my sincere appreciation of UNESCO’s assistance and close cooperation, and my confidence that UNESCO will  continue to support our activities concerning world heritage nominations in the future. It should be noted that the  Mongolian National Centre for the Intangible Cultural Heritage, established under the auspices of UNESCO, is  successfully working to preserve and to revive the numerous valuable types of intangible cultural heritage.
34.9 Mr President, in fulfilling its important and responsible mandate of linking the peoples of the world UNESCO  has always been the leader, through its policies and activities, in the promotion and protection of democracy, freedom of  expression and media independence. The Mongolian Government attaches great importance to information and  communication technologies and fully supports UNESCO’s policies and activities in this field.
34.10 Mr President, we appreciate the efforts made and work done by the Executive Board, Secretariat and Director- General for the implementation of the Organization’s programme since the 30th session of the General Conference. We  are confident that the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007 and the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003,  to be approved at this session, will become important documents that identify the priorities facing UNESCO at the  threshold of the new century. My delegation supports this document as well as the Recommendations by the Executive  Board. It is a great pleasure for me to say that the draft Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft Programme and Budget  are specific and new in content and form . In particular, we consider that the promotion of a culture of peace, the  eradication of poverty and the development of information, and the strengthening of democracy, human rights and  gender equality are significant for the harmony and peace of international communities. In this connection, I would like
333  to express our thanks to the Director-General and Secretariat for their efforts. The Mongolian Government will continue  to support the Director-General in his reform initiatives to revitalize our Organization.
34.11 Mr President, I am confident that UNESCO, which is the central forum for international intellectual and  humanitarian issues, will succeed in its efforts to further strengthen the development of humanity. Thank you for your  attention.
35.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Before I call upon our next distinguished speaker, I would like to announce  that, after very intense and numerous meetings with representatives of the different geographical groups about the  resolution on terrorism and thanks to the spirit of cooperation between all of them and an attitude of compromise  advocated by all of us at this General Conference, it seems that we have now reached a consensus and, because of this  success, tomorrow at 10 a.m. I will introduce the revised version of the draft resolution which you received before in  document 31 C/9 Add. Rev. You will have the revised version, after the necessary changes made following our  consultation tomorrow morning and we will decide on it in our general debate.
35.2 I have another matter to submit briefly to the plenary. One of the non-governmental organizations admitted to  relations with UNESCO, the World Islamic Call Society, has a representative here who cannot stay on and has asked to  be authorized to speak for three minutes at the end of our meeting today. As this was not foreseen in our programme  today, if there is no objection I will give him the floor at the end of the plenary meeting before closing it. As I see no  objection, it is so decided. Mr Mohammed Ahmed Sherif you will have the floor for a maximum of three minutes.  Thank you very much for your attention.
35.3 I now call upon His Excellency Mr Almany Fodé Sylla, distinguished Minister of Technical Education and  Vocational Training of Guinea. Excellency, the floor is yours.
36.1 M. FODE SYLLA (Guinée) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'éprouve un réel plaisir,  Monsieur le Président, à vous adresser mes sincères et vives félicitations pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de  la Conférence générale pour cette 31e session. Je suis d'avance persuadé qu'en raison de votre riche et inestimable  expérience, de vos qualités d'homme de culture, nos travaux aboutiront à des résultats éclatants. Je me réjouis  d'exprimer également à Mme la Présidente du Conseil exécutif toute notre satisfaction et celle de ma délégation pour la  clairvoyance, la compétence et la lucidité avec lesquelles elle a dirigé les travaux de cet organe de notre Institution.
36.2 Ce moment est bien choisi pour renouveler notre totale confiance en M. le Directeur général de l'UNESCO.  S. E. M. Koïchiro Matsuura pour assurer le rayonnement et la concrétisation des idéaux de l'Organisation. Les  heureuses initiatives et les innovations pertinentes déjà introduites dans maints domaines fondent en nous l'espoir que  les sacrifices qu'il consent et les efforts qu'il déploie chaque jour seront couronnés de succès. Aussi voudrais-je, du haut  de cette tribune, transmettre aux éminentes personnalités de cette auguste assemblée les salutations cordiales et  chaleureuses du peuple de Guinée, de son Gouvernement et singulièrement de S. E. le Général Lansana Conté, président  de la République, Chef de l'Etat.
36.3 Monsieur le Président, si le monde aborde ce troisième millénaire en ayant enregistré des progrès remarquables  dans tous les domaines de la pensée et de l'action, force est de souligner que bien des défis restent encore à relever, bien  des disparités et inégalités à corriger. En effet, les pays en développement demeurent confrontés aux problèmes de  l'analphabétisme, de la pauvreté, de la malnutrition auxquels s'ajoutent ça et là, des conflits ethniques et autres formes  de tensions sociales et d'affrontements politiques générés par des nationalismes réducteurs et exclusifs. A l'espoir  suscité jadis par la fin de la guerre froide, a succédé un monde unipolaire caractérisé par la mondialisation de  l'économie, des échanges et des techniques, monde au sein duquel la tolérance, la liberté, la démocratie, la justice, la  paix, sont des valeurs à conquérir. Assurément, l'aggravation des inégalités entre Nations, la recrudescence de  l'intégrisme religieux, la persistance de foyers de tension politique au Moyen-Orient, en Afrique et en Amérique latine,  constituent autant de sujets de préoccupation auxquels la communauté internationale doit apporter de toute urgence des  réponses et des solutions définitives. Nul doute que ces phénomènes constituent des sources potentielles d'intolérance et  de violences de toutes sortes.
36.4 C'est peut-être dans cette sombre perspective que s'inscrivent les récents événements du 11 septembre 2001  survenus aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique, consacrant par là une détérioration notable de la conjoncture sociopolitique  mondiale. Cette situation on ne peut plus déplorable contribue dangereusement à la dégradation des rapports entre  Nations et compromet la sécurité et la stabilité des Etats. A cet égard, face aux menaces permanentes qui pèsent sur la  paix dans le monde, en raison de l'incompréhension entre Nations, aux crises de toute nature suscitées et entretenues par  des antagonismes ethniques, politiques et religieux, il convient de conjuguer les efforts en faveur des idéaux de paix, du  respect des droits de l'homme et de la démocratie. Aujourd'hui, les défis à relever sont si nombreux et complexes que
334  l'heure n'est plus aux confrontations destructrices et meurtrières, mais plutôt à la lutte contre le sida, la faim,  l'analphabétisme, la pauvreté, la toxicomanie, l'exclusion et les inégalités. C'est peut-être ici le lieu de rappeler que si la  mission originelle de l'UNESCO est, entre autres, de s'atteler à l'instauration d'une paix véritable entre les peuples,  celle-ci passe nécessairement de nos jours par la solution des problèmes concrets de développement plus que par des  forums. La 31e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, qui se tient dans un tel contexte d'incertitude, de  terreur et d'inquiétude, se doit d'intégrer plus qu'auparavant dans les programmes d'action de l'Organisation, au delà  d'enjeux et objectifs stratégiques, l'indispensable dialogue des civilisations et la nécessaire complémentarité culturelle.
36.5 Monsieur le Président, il est impératif à notre avis de réaffirmer ici la nécessité, au regard de ces contraintes  multiples, de poursuivre et d'affiner les réformes entreprises concernant les structures, les méthodes et le  fonctionnement de l'UNESCO pour assurer à celle-ci plus d'efficacité et de résultats.
36.6 En outre, malgré les sacrifices consentis, des efforts restent à faire en faveur de l'éducation et de la formation  en général dans les pays en développement et singulièrement en Afrique, car à cet égard, les déficits persistent. En effet,  s'il est urgent de renforcer les programmes d'éducation de base pour tous, d'actualiser et de rendre plus dynamiques les  actions en matière d'alphabétisation des adultes, il est tout autant indispensable de faire face aux problèmes de  formation de compétences de haut niveau en Afrique et de trouver des solutions adéquates à l'épineuse question de la  fuite des cerveaux.
36.7 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, la déstabilisation à la fois prolongée et marquée de la sous- région ouest-africaine en raison de la persistance des conflits armés au Libéria et en Sierra Léone, a profondément  perturbé l'équilibre social en Guinée et considérablement dégradé notre écosystème durant la décennie écoulée. En effet,  l'afflux de milliers de réfugiés en provenance de ces pays a été préjudiciable à notre système éducatif et culturel. De  surcroît, à la suite d'une agression armée le long de ses frontières sud et sud-est, la République de Guinée subit depuis le
1er septembre 2000 les contraintes et les difficultés d'une véritable économie de guerre. Les nombreuses populations  déplacées et réfugiées - près d'un million de personnes - les innombrables infrastructures scolaires détruites posent à  l'heure actuelle d'énormes problèmes d'éducation et de formation dans notre pays.
36.8 De ce fait, Monsieur le Président, la gestion des conséquences sociales de cette agression, dans leurs incidences  multiples, pose de véritables problèmes de reconstruction d'écoles et d'équipements, de fourniture de matériels  didactiques, de formation d'enseignants et d'animateurs pédagogiques. Mon Gouvernement se réjouit à cet égard du  vaste élan de solidarité internationale dont il a bénéficié pour faire face à cette situation particulièrement grave.  Cependant, il estime qu'il convient d'engager et de mettre en oeuvre, au cours du prochain exercice biennal, des  programmes spécifiques d'assistance dans les domaines de l'éducation, de l'alphabétisation et de la formation, en faveur  des pays récemment sortis de conflits.
36.9 Monsieur le Président, dans un monde de plus en plus interdépendant, les prodigieuses avancées des  technologies de l'information et de la communication rendent plus que jamais indispensable le renforcement de  l'universalité de notre Organisation face à la diversité et à la complexité des problèmes qui assaillent l'humanité. Nous  lançons à cet effet un appel solennel et pressant aux Etats qui nous ont quittés pour qu'ils reviennent au sein de la  famille de l'UNESCO afin qu'ensemble nous puissions assurer la réalisation des idéaux de l'Organisation dans l'intérêt  de tous les peuples.
36.10 Qu'elle serait belle la vie de tous les hommes réconciliés avec eux-mêmes. Vive l'UNESCO, Vive l'humanité  tout entière. Je vous remercie.  (Mr Firat, Turkey, takes the Chair)
37. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Your Excellency. I now call upon Ms Monique Fouilloux, President of the NGO/UNESCO Liaison  Committee. Please, Madam, you have the floor.
38.1 Mme FOUILHOUX (Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, chers amis des ONG, la situation mondiale  actuelle traduit - tout le monde s'est attaché à le dire, à le marteler depuis le début de cette semaine - une crise profonde  de la vie démocratique, de l'organisation sociale et des valeurs morales. Cette crise interpelle certes les ONG, mais il y a  bien longtemps que celles-ci essaient, sans y parvenir vraiment, de faire entendre leur voix sur ces questions. J'en veux  pour preuve les résultats du Colloque international sur "la culture de la paix : une idée en action" que nous avons  organisé en novembre 2000, et qui a montré s'il en était besoin le profond engagement des ONG et le grand nombre  d'actions et d'activités de toutes sortes qu'elles mènent depuis de nombreuses années.
38.2 Notre action s'inscrit dans le long terme, et en cette année 2001, proclamée "Année du dialogue entre les  civilisations", notre Comité prendra une initiative lors de la Conférence internationale des ONG, en décembre prochain,  et se prononcera sur l'adoption d'un Plan d'action collectif pour la "Décennie internationale de la promotion d'une  culture de la non-violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde", plan qui s'articulera autour des huit domaines  d'action retenus par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies dans sa résolution 53/243.
38.3 L'UNESCO se propose de renforcer les partenariats, la coopération avec la société civile, et les ONG en  particulier, et de renforcer la culture du dialogue. Dans certains cas il s'agit de créer les conditions du dialogue, car il  n'existe tout simplement pas. Quoique nous en pensions, les méthodes d'organisation et de travail qui prévalent  actuellement au sein de certaines des structures, des conférences ou des séminaires de l'UNESCO comme d'autres  organisations ne laissent que peu de place, sinon aucune à un véritable dialogue. Je voudrais citer l'exemple de la  dernière session de la Conférence internationale du BIE qui s'est tenue à Genève quelques jours avant les événements  tragiques du 11 septembre. Au risque de détonner avec l'optimisme ambiant, les ONG considèrent que cette conférence  a été, hélas, une occasion manquée. En effet, même si de bonnes pratiques ont été présentées, si des réflexions  intéressantes ont été entendues, et même si les conclusions et propositions d'action adoptées méritent toute notre  attention, cette Conférence a été une suite de monologues. Il n'y a eu aucun dialogue, aucune confrontation d'idées et de  points de vues, ni entre les Etats, ni entre ceux-ci et les ONG, lesquelles n'ont que rarement pu prendre la parole. Du  reste il est tout à fait significatif, comme cela est mentionné dans le document 31/C/REP/22 que la session spéciale  consacrée au thème de l'implication de la société civile dans la promotion de l'éducation pour tous qui avait été  organisée de manière différente ait été très favorablement accueillie par de nombreux participants représentant les Etats.
38.4 A cet égard, je souhaiterais saluer les propositions formulées par le Directeur général dans le document
31 C/17, invitant les Etats membres de l'UNESCO à engager une réflexion sérieuse sur la manière d'organiser le  dialogue politique au niveau mondial de manière plus "inclusive". Les ONG souhaiteraient y être associées par  l'intermédiaire du Comité de liaison.
38.5 Il paraît également indispensable que la Conférence générale définisse les modalités pratiques d'une action de  très large envergure pour que l'UNESCO contribue de manière substantielle à un projet comparable à celui qu'elle avait  adopté en 1956. Je veux parler du "Projet majeur relatif à l'appréciation mutuelle des valeurs culturelles de l'Orient et de  l'Occident" qui, pendant dix ans, a eu pour objet et pour résultat de favoriser le dialogue des cultures, ainsi que des  religions. Projet du reste largement élaboré et mis en oeuvre grâce aux réseaux de nombreuses ONG. Je souligne qu'il  s'agit non seulement de susciter de véritables dialogues entre les communautés aux divers échelons - locaux, nationaux,  régionaux, internationaux -, mais également de contribuer ainsi à la lutte contre la pauvreté. Beaucoup d'orateurs ont en  effet souligné dans notre enceinte les liens étroits entre compréhension mutuelle et développement. Les très nombreuses  frustrations nourrissent la violence. L'éducation bien sûr a un rôle éminent à jouer en tant qu'élément de formation et de  transformation, sans négliger les nécessaires articulations pluridisciplinaires.
38.6 Est-il normal d'attendre ces terribles événements du 11 septembre, des milliers de morts dans un grand pays  développé, pour affirmer enfin haut et fort, comme le faisait il y a quelques jours le Président de la Banque mondiale,  qu'il faut mettre sur pied une coalition mondiale contre la pauvreté et pour l'inclusion et la justice sociales. Tout le  monde l'a dit, la pauvreté n'est pas directement source de violence, et encore moins de terrorisme, mais ce sont bien  parmi les plus pauvres que les taux d'analphabétisme sont les plus élevés, et c'est aussi ces populations qui ne peuvent,  dans leur grande majorité envoyer leurs enfants à l'école, faisant ainsi perdurer ce cercle vicieux qu'il nous faut briser.  C'est là une ardente obligation pour nous tous.
38.7 L'éducation, quant à elle, doit non seulement instruire et transmettre des connaissances mais encore faire  acquérir les savoir-être et les savoir-faire indispensables pour transformer, mais surtout faire adopter des valeurs  universelles et humanistes, des attitudes, des comportements qui permettraient aux jeunes, futurs citoyens, d'être à l'aise  dans une démocratie participative, engagée et responsable, où l'intolérable et l'inacceptable seraient dénoncés au profit  d'une éthique de vie et au nom de la dignité humaine. De fait le principal défi consiste à faire en sorte que les  enseignants, les enfants, mais également leurs parents, et les responsables à tous les niveaux se fassent une obligation de  contribuer à construire l'avenir de notre planète.
38.8 Le plus grand défi toutefois n'est pas de réinventer la roue. Il nous suffit de nous appuyer sur l'expérience déjà  acquise par l'UNESCO - par exemple sur le projet majeur Orient-Occident que je viens d'évoquer, et qui a été  mentionné à plusieurs reprises par le Président de la Conférence générale. De nombreuses conférences ont eu lieu, des  réflexions ont été menées depuis des années, dans cette Organisation ou à son initiative. A présent, il importe d'agir, de  mettre en pratique, d'exploiter l'existant. L'UNESCO vient de réaliser avec une ONG un CD-ROM sur l'éducation à la  citoyenneté. Lors de son élaboration, il a fallu faire des choix, car l'on était en présence de trésors, de matériels de très  grande qualité élaborés au Siège, dans les bureaux hors Siège, dans les Etats ou par les ONG. Pour ne citer que quatre  pays, les matériels reçus du Kenya, du Costa Rica, de la République démocratique du Congo et de l'Italie étaient  remarquables. Mais, me direz-vous, alors tout est parfait. Non, car là où le bât blesse, c'est que dans la majorité des cas,
336  ces matériels, ces ouvrages, sont inconnus de ceux qui seraient susceptibles de les utiliser, de les exploiter - je veux  parler des éducateurs au sens large. Il est impératif, lorsque l'on prévoit d'élaborer des matériels, des ouvrages ou des  brochures, de faire davantage pour mettre à la disposition des Etats membres les ressources humaines et matérielles  indispensables pour que la production locale corresponde à leurs besoins propres pour qu'elle bénéficie d'une large  diffusion et puisse être évaluée.
38.9 Je voudrais dire quelques mots du Rapport sexennal qui fait l'objet du document 31 C/27. Il s'agit là du premier  exercice d'évaluation des directives que vous avez adoptées en 1995, mené en application de la résolution 30 C/61. Cet  exercice s'est révélé extrêmement utile. Les ONG ont été invitées à prendre part au groupe de travail mis en place par le  Comité sur les organisations non gouvernementales du Conseil exécutif. Notre participation à l'effort commun  d'évaluation et de réflexion a été pleine et entière : il s'agit pour nous d'un exemple concret d'une réelle culture de  partenariat. Pour l'ensemble des ONG, cet exercice était important, et je dirai qu'après les tensions suscitées par le  reclassement entrepris en 1996, cet exercice a constitué une sorte d'exorcisme nécessaire. Les ONG tiendront leur  Conférence internationale du 12 au 15 décembre prochain et attendent avec beaucoup d'intérêt ces modifications dont le  Conseil exécutif recommande l'adoption par la Conférence générale. Ces modifications, je n'en doute pas, renforceront  la cohésion et la solidarité des ONG entretenant des relations officielles avec l'UNESCO et leur capacité de réflexion et  d'action.
38.10 Pour conclure, je voudrais revenir sur la question qu'a posée le 15 octobre dernier Jacques Chirac, Président de  la République Française : "a-t-on retenu les leçons du XXe siècle ?" Je n'ai bien sûr pas la réponse à cette question, mais  je voudrais simplement livrer à votre réflexion la lettre qu'à chaque rentrée scolaire un directeur d'école américain  adressait à l'ensemble des enseignants de son établissement : "Chers professeurs, Je suis un survivant des camps de  concentration. Mes yeux ont vu ce qu'aucun homme ne devrait voir : des chambres à gaz construites par des ingénieurs  instruits ; des enfants empoisonnées par des médecins qui avaient fait des études ; des nourrissons tués par des  infirmières qualifiées et dûment formées ; des femmes et des bébés exécutés et brûlés par des diplômés de collèges et  d'universités. Je me méfie donc de l'enseignement. Ma requête est la suivante  : aidez nos élèves à devenir des êtres  humains. Vos efforts ne doivent jamais produire des monstres éduqués, des psychopathes qualifiés, des Eichman  instruits."
38.11 La lecture, l'écriture, l'arithmétique ne sont importantes que si elles servent à rendre nos enfants plus humains.  Nous devons refuser de devenir les survivants du terrorisme d'aujourd'hui, les survivants de la guerre bactériologique  que l'on semble nous promettre demain, mais nous devons également refuser de voir 100.000 enfants afghans mourir de  faim et de froid dans les prochaines années. Apprenons réellement à "vivre ensemble". Je vous remercie.
39. The PRESIDENT:   I thank the President of the NGO/UNESCO Liaison Committee. The next speaker on my list is Ms Alissandra  Cummins, who is the Chairperson of the Barbados National Commission for UNESCO. Madam, please.
40.1 Ms CUMMINS (Barbados):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, charting UNESCO’s course for the next six years within the framework of the  Organization’s first Medium-Term Strategy is the critical task before us at this session. Our first step in mapping this  future is to recognize that we need to revitalize the Organization, particularly through a renewed appreciation of its  mandate. The Executive Board undertook a reflection process in 1999 to do exactly that and the exercise yielded  valuable results which we see reflected in the draft Strategy, particularly at Chapter II devoted to UNESCO’s mission.
40.2 We consider, nevertheless, that there are additional points to be emphasized in the light of a renewed  appreciation of the Constitution. These points are basically related to three observations which this delegation had made  in 1999 to the Executive Board at its 156th session when we discussed the current relevance of UNESCO’s mandate.  We now wish to revisit them because they have also served us as guiding thoughts in strategizing for the future. These  three points or observations relate to: first, the significance of UNESCO’s activities in the international system as a  complement to political and economic agreements; secondly, UNESCO’s role in conflict prevention; and thirdly,  UNESCO’s responsibilities for intercultural understanding.
40.3 Regarding the first point, we believe that our future strategy must include the launching of a much more  determined effort on the part of the Organization to gain the acceptance of intergovernmental organs for what this  delegation sees as UNESCO’s systemic function in international affairs. Mr President, if we observe the role of  intergovernmental bodies today we see that it is the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World  Trade Organization (WTO) – in other words, the tripod – that embody a concentration of authority for fundamental  principles of international intercourse which affect our daily lives. However, the Constitution of UNESCO makes an  important observation about the inadequacy of political and economic agreements alone as instruments for lasting  peace. Lasting peace, the Constitution posits, must be founded upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. If  we accept this argument, then all members of the international community, especially the donor countries, should
337  commit themselves to according UNESCO its true place in the system so as to achieve that crucial balance in  perspective and action, at the global level, that will be provided by UNESCO’s ethical, intellectual and humanist  function.
40.4 Mr President, I now wish to turn to the second guiding thought also arising from the Preamble to UNESCO’s  Constitution which speaks to moulding minds for peace, i.e. a “culture of peace” as we interpret it in this house: a  notion that therefore embodies conflict prevention. It is not clear that we are approaching conflict prevention with the  kind of focus, planning and coordination that are necessary. This requires not only careful monitoring and analysis of  world affairs but also forecasting. How much attention and emphasis are we giving to this function of forecasting which  is an integral part in the process of strategy formulation? While we see that it has been given some mention in  paragraph 118 of the draft Strategy we consider that the significance of forecasting has not been properly brought out in  this draft and we bear in mind here that the Executive Board’s Task Force on UNESCO in the Twenty-First Century  had underlined the importance of this function in its report.
40.5 I now come to the third idea which relates to culture. This delegation has already emphasized that we should  not underestimate the scale or importance of the task of dispelling “ignorance of each other’s ways”, as the Constitution  puts it. We have observed that increased liberalization and leisure travel will bring different cultures into closer contact  and that closer contact can either produce friction or promote mutual understanding. We have also commented upon the  attention given to Huntington’s ideas about a clash of civilizations, noting his view that “avoidance of global war  depends on world leaders accepting and cooperating to maintain the multicivilizational character of global politics”.
40.6 Today, Mr President, we hear spurious arguments to portray the war against terrorism as a war against  particular religions, cultures and civilizations. These arguments will breed confusion as well as “suspicion and mistrust  amongst peoples” which our Constitution rightly states are causal factors of war. This, then, makes more urgent the  need for education, tolerance and communication, all of which UNESCO is mandated to promote for the achievement  of peace. They also make international cooperation for the maintenance of the “fruitful diversity of nations” all the more  pertinent because such cooperation will signal to all in the international community that there is a common will to  recognize all cultures of all nations.
40.7 We therefore must stress that the promotion of intercultural understanding is as important as any disarmament  treaty and that it is time that UNESCO’s mandate for peace and security be given the priority attention it deserves from  all Member States. We therefore look forward to the passing of the Draft UNESCO Declaration and Action Plan on  Cultural Diversity that is on our agenda at this 31st session. In similar vein, we give our fullest support to the Director- General’s proposal for a summit to review and follow up the activities of the International Year of Dialogue among  Civilizations. We now wish, nevertheless, to see a clear strategy on UNESCO’s part for the promotion and  implementation of this Draft Declaration and Action Plan. We would also wish to see very concrete ideas for the  proposed summit which should be one of the most important summits in this century, we believe. It is also necessary to  identify where this summit will fall within what we hope will be a structured process with a clear strategy. And for this  process there should be a clear strategy. This proposed Declaration and summit are, inter alia, critical to equipping  UNESCO to respond to the implications and consequences of the barbaric attack against the United States of America  on 11 September.
40.8 More generally, on the overall significance of culture, I wish to point out that the Prime Minister of Barbados,  the Rt. Hon. Owen S. Arthur, MP, recently assumed direct responsibility for the culture portfolio. This should  demonstrate the importance which we have assigned to this area.
40.9 Mr President, we hope that these three guiding thoughts will assist in the revitalization process of the  Organization and in the examination of the draft Strategy. We also hope that the reflection process can be continued as  there is more work to be done in renewing our appreciation of the Constitution and reappraising the way we work.
40.10 I must also state that we support the principles of action and programming as outlined in Chapter II. We  consider that the principle of excellence and innovation needs to become the imprimatur of the Organization and  commend within that context the strategy to heighten UNESCO’s visibility. Why is it that UNESCO, which had the  foresight to launch the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome does not figure publicly in the global debate on the  matter? We hope to put an end to this kind of record.
40.11 Regarding the specific programming areas, it is well known that Barbados has always given clear priority to  education and we support the Organization’s continued emphasis on this. There is no need to argue well-established  links between education and development or education and empowerment, and the draft Strategy’s aim to promote  education as a fundamental right cannot be questioned. I wish to draw attention to the fact that, in our particular context  in Barbados and the Caribbean, boys are under-achieving and we therefore urge UNESCO to assist our efforts by  preparing programmes for the male under-achiever.
40.12 Similarly, we give our backing to the general aims outlined for science and communication which we will  comment upon further in the respective commissions. I will say here, nevertheless, that Barbados has the highest regard  for the activities of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission which well deserves to be categorized as a  UNESCO flagship.
40.13 Bearing in mind our foregoing remarks on culture, we will add here that Barbados views as critical the  mobilization of resources to assist developing countries with the operationalization of UNESCO’s international  conventions for the protection of the natural and cultural heritage. In this regard, regional strategies such as those  elaborated by the World Heritage Committee should be adopted under other conventions. I also wish to state our  Government’s utmost support for the establishment of the convention concerning the protection of the underwater  cultural heritage.
40.14 Mr President, we have noted that this draft Strategy rightly speaks to the need to combat exclusion and to give  voice to marginalized groups. However, we would wish this principle to be applied, too, in the context of the  membership of the Organization and equitable representation and participation of regional groups. In this regard, our  delegation must air its concerns about a few matters related to small States. Since the abolition of the Small States Unit  in 2000 we have heard of no alternative plans to cater to the special needs of small States, most of which do not have  permanent representatives in Paris. This delegation has made suggestions to the Secretariat about ways to increase  support to small States but still awaits a reaction. We have called for financial support for a ministerial small States  meeting in the past but have not had any enthusiastic feedback from the Secretariat. The publication of the small States  newsletter would appear to be in limbo and we would wish to signal here our strong desire to see this important medium  of communication and information continued. We also wish to note that the project on the General History of the  Caribbean continues to lag and since many Caribbean countries are small States our marginalization is further felt as a  result of this.
40.15 We must also draw to the attention of this Conference that small States are severely underrepresented on the  subsidiary organs of this Organization. This has been so for several years with the effect that 15% of UNESCO’s  membership is voiceless in its subsidiary, specialized bodies. Part of the problem has been that many of us find it  impossible to consider candidatures for these organs because of the financial implications of representation. We have  therefore submitted a draft resolution to address this matter and propose institutional arrangements for financial support  from the 2004-2005 biennium onwards. We look forward to support from other Member States and requisite interest  from the Secretariat.
40.16 My delegation supports the Director-General’s proposal for a textbook project under the “dialogue of  civilizations” concept. Indeed the Government of Barbados will be trying to encourage an interregional project amongst  the small States of UNESCO to produce a textbook under this project. We strongly believe that no weapons, no  multilateral institutions can be as protective against war or violence as the inculcation of appropriate values in our  children – a culture of peace, respect for others and “preparation for the responsibilities of freedom” – in other words  exactly what our Constitution recommends. We are therefore keen to hear what financial and administrative  arrangements the Director-General has in mind for this project. We call upon other small States to support us in this  idea and to collaborate with us to make an interregional project submission to the Organization.
40.17 I also wish to say in relation to the question of decentralization that in light of the closure of the Bridgetown  Office our Government awaits clarification as to increased active support and involvement by UNESCO in the region’s  activities and on the steps the Secretariat proposes to take to strengthen the Barbados National Commission so as to  enable it to be a more capable partner in programme delivery. We see that the draft Strategy aims to build upon the  ongoing regional integration process to ultimately develop specific regional and subregional strategies. While the  strategies are to be formulated by the stakeholders themselves, Barbados nevertheless anticipates the articulation by  UNESCO of an innovative, flexible and clear policy geared to the strengthening of capacities and appropriate  integration of National Commissions in the implementation of the programme.
40.18 Finally, Mr President, as my Government’s membership on the Executive Board comes to an end we wish to  thank all our fellow Members for their collaboration, friendship and support over the past four years and to thank the  Executive Board Secretariat for unstinting support and assistance and truly “quality service”. I thank you.
41. The PRESIDENT:   I thank Ms Cummins, the representative of Barbados. And now I call upon the last speaker on my list, who is  Mr Mohamed Ahmed Sherif, Secretary-General of the World Islamic Call Society. Mr Sherif.
(42.1) Mr SHERIF (World Islamic Call Society) (Translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, may  peace and the mercy of God be upon you. First, I should like to congratulate Mr Ahmad Jalali on his election as President  of this Conference, and the Chairperson of the Executive Board on her work. I also have the pleasure of commending the  great role being played by Mr Matsuura, the Organization’s Director-General, in achieving its objectives and those of this  Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to you at this late hour. I am pleased  to transmit to you the greetings of all my colleagues in the World Islamic Call Society, which this year is celebrating its  thirtieth anniversary serving people all over the world in the cultural, educational, scientific and humanitarian fields, as well  as working for understanding  among peoples.
(42.2) As I salute UNESCO and appreciate its role and its continuing presence in the educational, cultural and scientific  fields, protecting the human heritage, laying the foundations for intercultural dialogue based on respect for all races and  religions, and playing its part in human civilization, I am certain that the Society’s cooperation with the Organization for  more than two decades is a model of fruitful cooperation of which we are proud and which are striving to deepen in order  to move forward. During our ongoing contact with its distinguished Director-General, UNESCO has always stressed the  desire for cooperation. There is no time and no need to enumerate here all the activities on which the Society and the  Organization have worked together in education, science and culture, but, in the cultural sphere, I should especially like to  mention the histories, which are the result of a joint effort in which the Society has played an active part. The histories help  peoples to learn more about each other and to respect each other’s cultures, and this helps to foster peace among them,  removing the seeds of violence and the causes of the terrorism we all condemn.
(42.3) Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot shut our eyes to the dangers now threatening the world’s security and stability  and the destruction of its historical achievements and treasures as a result of the military strikes, terrorist and counter- terrorist operations that continue to hold back human progress and obstruct the path to security and stability. In this  connection, I should like to stress that Islam is a tolerant, civilizing religion which has played its part in building a  pluralistic world in which different human groups coexist in peace and security, and is therefore far removed from any acts  of terrorism against the innocent that endanger the lives of peaceful people and undermine the foundations of the  civilization and culture of human society. Islam condemns all terrorist aggression anywhere in the world and prohibits  suicide, which is forbidden by God except in a just cause. We join our efforts to all the genuine, serious work being done to  study terrorism and to lay a basis for understanding it and defining it conceptually and we endorse UNESCO’s work in this  connection as the organization able seriously to undertake this task in order to render service to all people to oppose  terrorism, once having explained it and defined its meaning in a particular cultural context.
(42.4) I commend UNESCO’s ceaseless work to protect the human heritage, especially in the regions affected by war  and violence, and urge it and all the specialized international organizations and bodies to redouble their endeavours with  respect to the human heritage in Palestine and save the Islamic and Christian Holy Places there from the destructive  policies pursued by the occupying authorities. I should also like to ask UNESCO to do everything in its power to remove  all the barriers encircling the Palestinian people and impeding the education of their children.
(42.5) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by congratulating you in the name of the hundreds of teachers, doctors  and others working in the various humanitarian services throughout the world under the auspices of the Islamic Call  Society and taking part in the programme of Islamic-Christian dialogue with which all Christian institutions are cooperating,  foremost among them the Vatican. I should again like to say how delighted I am at the great success of our cooperation  with UNESCO, and that we hope to develop it still further and make it more effective in the service of our common goals  of building a tolerant human society in which cultures come together, civilizations flourish and the call to righteousness is  answered. “You people! We have created you from a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, that you  might get to know one another. The noblest of you in God’s sight is he who is most righteous.” Put your trust in Almighty  God. May peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
43. The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished delegates, we have come to the end of our list of speakers. I thank Mr Mohamed Sherif for his  statement. We shall meet again in the plenary tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned.    La séance est levée à 19 h.10  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 19.10  Заседание закрывается в 19.10  א ٧,١٠א   会议于 19 时 10 分结束