543    Vingtième séance plénière
2 novembre 2001 à 15 h.20  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  Twentieth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:    Good afternoon everybody. May I ask you all to be seated. In the name of God, the Merciful, the  Compassionate, dear colleagues, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the twentieth plenary meeting of the  General Conference.
1.2 This plenary meeting will be devoted to the examination and adoption of the reports of Commissions I and IV  and of the Nominations Committee. I should like to propose a change in the schedule for this meeting. If there is no  objection, I would propose that we start our work with the report of Commission I, followed by the report of the  Nominations Committee and, finally, that of Commission IV. May I remind you that this meeting may be extended, if  necessary, until 7.30 p.m. Since I see no objection, we can now proceed accordingly, but before moving on to the first  item, I would like to announce that today I learned from a letter from the Permanent Delegate of the Russian Federation  that an informal Russian-speaking group has just been formed. About 20 countries where this language is used have  joined this group, which will be quite unofficial and will help intensify their cultural contacts. I wish them success and  hope that this initiative will contribute to linguistic and cultural diversity in the life of UNESCO. I give the floor to the  Secretary of the General Conference, who has another announcement to make. Mr Kol, you have the floor.
2. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais rappeler aux délégations que, en ce moment même, se tient dans la  salle II la réunion conjointe de la Commission administrative et des commissions de programme, qui est chargée de  mettre au point le projet de résolution portant ouverture de crédits que nous adopterons en plénière demain matin. Il  serait bon que les délégations soient représentées à cette réunion conjointe. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
3. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I congratulate the 20 countries concerned for this informal Russian-speaking group and  I wish them success.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION I : RÉSOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION I: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN I: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ I: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  א א:א א א א   第 I 委员会的报告：决议和建议
4. The PRESIDENT:   We shall start with the report of Commission I. The relevant documents 31 C/61 and Addendum and  Corrigendum. I therefore invite Ms Alissandra Cummins, distinguished Chairperson of Commission I, to present the  Commission’s report. Madam, you have the floor.
5.1 Ms CUMMINS (Barbados), Chairperson of Commission I:   Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to take the floor to present the oral report of Commission I.  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, honourable delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, it is both a pleasure and a privilege for me to present the report on the work of Commission I. As my report  is a synthesis of the decisions reached in the Commission, I will not mention the names of the specific Member States  which took part in the discussion unless such a mention has been specifically requested by the Member State concerned  or is otherwise exceptionally warranted. The substantive questions addressed throughout the meetings, together with the  recommendations adopted, form an integral part of the written report submitted as documents 31 C/61 and 31 C/61  Addendum and Corrigendum. Originally, ten meetings were planned but the Commission completed its work in the  course of eight meetings, consisting of nine debates, between 23 and 29 October 2001.
5.2 At its first meeting, the Commission elected by acclamation the Vice-Chairpersons and the Rapporteur, and  adopted its timetable of work in document 31 C/COM.I/1 (prov.). It then moved to Debate 1, devoted to item 3,  “Consideration and adoption of the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007 and preparation of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2004-2005 (31 C/4)”, during which the representatives of 29 Member States and one  observer took the floor. In regard to the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, the Director of the Bureau of
545  Strategic Planning made introductory remarks concerning the formulation of the Organization’s strategy and the  expected results.
5.3 I should like to highlight the following salient points of the debate: UNESCO should coordinate fully with  other agencies of the United Nations system to avoid duplication of effort. In this regard, UNESCO’s recent  membership of the United Nations Development Group (UNDG) was welcomed; more attention should be paid to the  formulation of concrete results and forecasting within the Organization’s strategic development should play a more  pivotal role; the rolling strategy was generally welcomed as being particularly important to the Organization’s ability to  react flexibly to new developments and demands, and the C/5 document should be clearly linked to the C/4 document;  the two cross-cutting themes were fully endorsed and projects aimed at poverty eradication ought to emphasize the  engagement of all sectors; both human and financial resources should be made available to the cluster offices and  enhanced; there had been insufficient reflection of the needs of Member States in the Asia and the Pacific region on the  one hand, and the participation and representation of small island developing States in the Organization’s programmes  and bodies needed to be improved, on the other; a full context map of all partners should be developed for document
31 C/4, highlighting comparative advantages for each partner; the strategic importance of gender and youth  mainstreaming should be recognized at all levels and in all projects: in this vein, Member States and National  Commissions are invited to continue their efforts to involve representatives of youth in their work, and gender strategies  should be improved both culturally and linguistically; the role and added value of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics  should be clearly stated in the C/4 document; lastly, virtually all delegations expressed full support for the  recommendations contained in document 31 C/11.
5.4 An overwhelming majority underscored that the current formulation of paragraph 36 of document 31 C/4,  which called National Commissions “privileged partners” of UNESCO, was unacceptable and needed to be recast  taking fully into account Article VII of the Constitution, previous General Conference resolutions and the actual range  of functions performed by National Commissions. In addition, it was suggested that the National Commissions should  be involved at all levels of the planning process from the bottom up. Likewise, Parts II.C and III of the Programme and  Budget should become more transparent.
5.5 The Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning informed the Commission that preparations were under way  with the field office directors and the National Commissions for the launching of the process to formulate regional and  subregional strategies. He noted that new policies had been prepared to give more focus to the sections concerning  public information and human resource management. Both would be fully reflected in document 31 C/4 Approved. He  stressed the importance of poverty eradication, the details of which are fully reflected in the written report. At the  conclusion of the debate, the Commission decided to take note of document 31 C/4 and to recommend to the General  Conference that it be approved, together with document 31 C/11.
5.6 The Commission then continued its work with Debate 3 on item 6.3, “Definition of regions with a view to the  execution of regional activities” following the recent admission to UNESCO of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a  new Member State, and Tokelau as an Associate Member. One delegate requested clarification concerning the name of  Yugoslavia as it appeared in the Organization’s Basic Texts. The Legal Adviser said that UNESCO had followed the  United Nations practice in this respect. In the light of those clarifications, the Commission decided to recommend to the  General Conference that the name “Yugoslavia” be replaced by “Federal Republic of Yugoslavia” and that it be  included in the Europe region and that Tokelau be added to the Asia and the Pacific region for the purpose of the  execution of regional activities. Both new Members were warmly welcomed.
5.7 We then moved to Debate 4 on item 5.4, “Celebration of anniversaries with which UNESCO could be  associated in 2002-2003”. The Commission agreed to a recommendation to change the title of the 3,000th anniversary  of Zoroastrianism, to that of the 3,000th anniversary of Zoroastrian culture, as originally proposed, and to add  Uzbekistan to the list of co-originators of this event. The Commission also supported the Russian Federation’s proposal  to submit a draft resolution on international celebrations which would add the 300th anniversary of the founding of the  city of Saint Petersburg in May 2003 to the list, and agreed that this would be noted and included in the records of the  General Conference.
5.8 We then examined item 10.1, “Sexennial report by the Executive Board to the General Conference on the  contribution made by non-governmental organizations to UNESCO’s activities”. The representative of the Chairperson  of the Executive Board’s Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) presented the report. Delegates  mentioned that international organizations should attach greater importance to NGOs and recommended that a greater  share of the budget be allocated to them under the Participation Programme. It was proposed that greater thought be  given to the nature and types of NGOs with which UNESCO is associated. The meaning of “official” relations  especially attracted the attention of some delegates. Reference was made to a new “triangular” form of working  relationship involving NGOs, UNESCO and its National Commissions, which would hinge on international NGOs
546  improving their internal coordination and doing more to encourage involvement on the part of their national branches.  The Secretariat representative responded by stressing the distinction between the official relations that UNESCO had  maintained with a number of NGOs of suitable status since 1995 and its ad hoc or informal cooperation with other  organizations. In addition, the Secretariat was invited to draw up a list (by areas of activity) of the NGOs maintaining  formal relations with UNESCO and to distribute it to the National Commissions. Mention was also made of the  desirability of earmarking a separate budget for NGOs in the next C/5 document.
5.9 Various speakers reiterated the need to establish clear-cut cooperation policies regarding relations with NGOs  at the level of each programme sector in order to permit selection of the most representative partners in each discipline.  They stressed the need to designate a central focal point for NGOs in each sector. The Chairperson of the NGO- UNESCO Liaison Committee expressed the satisfaction of the NGO community at having taken part in that evaluation  exercise, which testified to a genuine desire for cooperation. In the hope that all stakeholders would take heed of the  recommendations stemming from this report, she undertook to continue improving communications with the NGOs.
5.10 The representative of the Director-General responded to the various points raised during the debate, welcoming  its highly positive nature, and took good note of the improvements required on the part of the Secretariat. He reaffirmed  the Organization’s desire to strengthen cooperation with the NGOs, whose partnership was crucial to its mission. The  Commission took note of document 31 C/27 and decided to recommend to the General Conference that it adopt the  resolution proposed in paragraph 204 of that document, as amended during the debate.
5.11 Commission I then examined, as part of Debate 2, the following interrelated items: 4.3, 6.2 and 7.1. Item 4.3,  “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 (Part III.A: External relations and  cooperation)” was introduced by the Assistant Director-General for External Relations and Cooperation, in his capacity  as the representative of the Director-General for the work of this Commission. Many speakers requested more  systematic cooperation with the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations (WFUCA), and  stressed the importance of the UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations movement in disseminating the  Organization’s ideals and implementing its programme. It was hoped that the requisite budget would be increased to  that end.
5.12 The idea of partnerships with parliamentarians met with favourable comment, and it was hoped that such  partnerships would be enhanced. Similarly, several delegates stressed the desirability of developing partnerships with  the private sector, not solely for the purpose of raising funds, but also with a view to promoting and disseminating the  Organization’s ideals. Other speakers stressed the need for clearer definition of the guidelines regarding the use by these  private partners of UNESCO’s name and logo. The excessive reliance on extrabudgetary resources gave cause for  concern to members of the Commission, particularly where they represented nearly five times the allocation within the  regular budget.
5.13 The Commission then turned its attention to item 6.2, “Proposals for adapting the ‘Regulations for the general  classification of the various categories of meetings convened by UNESCO’ to the needs of the Organization”. Many  delegates expressed their support for the draft resolution, which reiterated the need for the consistent application of the  existing regulations for the general classification of the various categories of meetings convened by UNESCO and  stressed the desirability of modifying and rationalizing the various categories of meetings. Furthermore, the questions of  geographical distribution and the decision-making process during meetings and conferences required review, which  should not be limited to procedural changes, but should also concern substantive improvements to the regulations. The  new regulations should allow greater flexibility in the organization of conferences and meetings and a review of the  number of categories of meetings and the plethora of documents generated. The use of communication tools such as  video-conferencing, where possible, was strongly recommended. In response, the Secretariat concurred with the views  of the Commission and stressed that it would revise the UNESCO Manual and would also endeavour to train specialists  in the use of ICTs both within the Organization and in Member States.
5.14 The final item addressed in Debate 2 was item 7.1, “Draft Statutes of the Standing Committee of the National  Commissions for UNESCO” (31 C/18). Fifty-three speakers took the floor, with discussion centring around the  establishment of a new body aimed at strengthening the role of the National Commissions. It was unanimously stressed  that National Commissions are an integral part of the Organization for the preparation, implementation and assessment  of UNESCO’s programme. It was also suggested that they be considered a “living force” in Member States.
5.15 While several delegates endorsed the idea of a Standing Committee, many others argued against it, in keeping  with the recommendation by the Executive Board at its 161st session. It was proposed that the existing machinery be  optimized and the use of information and communication technologies be encouraged. With regard to the legal status of  the Standing Committee, the Legal Adviser explained that the Committee had never existed de jure. Some delegates
547  noted that a certain amount of confusion occurred as a result of the ambiguity of the documents prepared by the  Secretariat concerning the status of the working group created to prepare the statutes of the future Standing Committee.
5.16 Favourable consideration was given not only to strengthening existing machinery, but also to developing  innovative ways of improving communication, cooperation and coordination both among the National Commissions  and between the National Commissions and the Secretariat. This would be through the use of information and  communication technologies. Equally, it was requested that the funds initially earmarked for the Standing Committee of  the National Commissions be assigned to enhancing the capacities of the National Commissions both through training  and through better interregional representation in existing forums.
5.17 An amendment tabled by a Member State was considered to be a new draft resolution; it was therefore not  entertained by the Commission. Subsequently I put paragraph 8 of document 31 C/18 – calling on the General  Conference not to create the Standing Committee – to the vote. This was adopted by 51 votes to 5, with 11 abstentions.  Some Member States offered explanations on their vote.
5.18 At the end of its work in Debate 2, the Commission examined the draft resolutions for each of the items  concerned and decided to recommend to the General Conference that it adopt the draft resolution on item 4.3 and  consequently modify the paragraph of document 31 C/5 concerning the Standing Committee of the National  Commissions; adopt the draft resolution on item 6.2, as amended by the Legal Committee, and continue to reflect on  how the regulations for the classification of the meetings convened by UNESCO could be improved; and adopt the draft  resolution on item 7.1 contained in document 31 C/18.
5.19 During the course of Debate 6, 12 speakers took the floor on item 4.3, “Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-
2003 – Part II.A: UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS)”, which was established by the General Conference at its
30th session. It has been recently transferred to Montreal, Canada, by decision of the Executive Board. Member States  widely supported the four main lines of action concerning UIS contained in the Draft Programme and Budget. Many  delegates underscored the importance of UNESCO’s role in promoting the use of statistical data for national and  international policies. Some delegates stressed that priority be given to the activities of UIS in the context of the  Education for All (EFA) Observatory and hoped that it would develop a wide range of relevant indicators while at the  same time establishing statistical standards for measuring progress towards EFA goals. Requests were made to improve  the quality of statistical methods and data, especially for the evaluation of literacy. UIS was urged to help Member  States with the development and strengthening of their national statistical capacities to ensure consistency in the  gathering of data and in the methodologies used for data collection, transmission, analysis and interpretation in both  national and transnational contexts.
5.20 While elaborating on some logistical concerns, the Director of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics stated that  statistics indisputably concerned all the sectors, and that the designation of a focal point between UIS and each of the  sectors at UNESCO had improved relations considerably. She also stressed the need to obtain additional funds in order  to better meet the needs of statistics users at the national and regional levels, and to strengthen existing links. The  Institute undertook to continue to collaborate with other agencies, such as OECD, Eurostat, UNICEF and the United  Nations Statistics Division, in order to share information and thus avoid duplication in data processing and collection.  The Commission then unanimously proposed that the General Conference approve the documents and the budgetary  provisions relating to the UNESCO Institute for Statistics.
5.21 Under item 4.3, Debate 7 encompassed three chapters of Part II.C: Programme Related Services – Chapter 1:  Strategic planning and programme monitoring, Chapter 4: Coordination of Action to Benefit Africa, and Chapter 5:  Fellowships Bank Programme. A total of 27 delegates took the floor.
5.22 With regard to Chapter 1, ten delegations commented on the functions of the Bureau of Strategic Planning  (BSP), welcoming its establishment and commending the work already performed in framing the draft C/4 and C/5  documents. Several delegations made specific requests designed to improve planning and future reporting, particularly  with regard to a more refined formulation of the strategic thrusts and expected results. Additionally, the need to  establish both quantitative and qualitative programme implementation indicators, particularly through the use of a  reinforced SISTER system, was mentioned. The importance of BSP in achieving progress in the agenda on the culture  of peace and the dialogue among civilizations was underlined by several delegations. The question of ensuring links  between training activities conducted by BSP and those carried out by the Bureau of Human Resources Management  (HRM) was also raised.
5.23 In his reply, the Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning stressed that action on various fronts had thus far  been taken to strengthen results-based programming, management and monitoring in close cooperation with the various  programme sectors, particularly in the formulation of more closely focused strategic results. He confirmed that BSP
548  gave priority to the culture of peace since UNESCO was the lead agency within the United Nations system for  coordinating the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, and that  the main initiatives for the promotion of dialogue among civilizations had already begun.
5.24 We then turned to Chapter 4. Thirteen speakers took part in the debate on the coordination of action to benefit  Africa, to which clear support was given. Some representatives voiced concern about the disparity between the Africa  Department’s operating budget and the funds available for programme implementation. Certain delegates asked the  Department to improve coordination, to strengthen cooperation with the United Nations system and to ensure that the  New African Initiative was properly taken into account by the programme sectors. Several others welcomed the culture  of peace in Africa.
5.25 The Assistant Director-General for the Africa Department assured the Commission that the recommendations  contained in the report of the United Nations Secretary-General on the “causes of conflict and the promotion of durable  peace and sustainable development in Africa” was a vital benchmark for the Department’s coordination work. Particular  attention was being paid by UNESCO to the struggle against HIV/AIDS, notably with respect to preventive education.  Moreover, the Department is active in the development of culturally sensitive and specific approaches to combating this  pandemic.
5.26 We then turned to the final item to be discussed in this debate: Chapter 6, Fellowships Bank Programme. Some
25 Member States took the floor. The Deputy Assistant Director-General for External Relations and Cooperation  provided introductory comments outlining the objectives of the programme and explaining the various types of  fellowships that existed. She also recalled the recommendations of the recent external evaluation submitted to the  Executive Board at its 161st session. The Deputy Assistant Director-General stressed that, while the programme has a  budget of over $4.5 million, in-kind contributions received from donor countries and private sponsors under the  co-sponsored fellowships programme represented just over $3.5 million, whereas $1 million had been taken from the  regular budget for the fellowships programme. She also mentioned the recent publication of the UNESCO international  fellowships directory.
5.27 The Commission unanimously recognized the quality of the work done by the Fellowships Section. In view of  the results obtained to date, and the high demand for fellowships, many delegates spoke of the need to provide  additional funds and logistical support to enable the section to fully attain its objective, namely to strengthen capacities  in developing countries. Interest in and collective support for fellowships as a tool for improving capacity-building in  the Member States was expressed. Several Member States welcomed the efforts made to increase the award of  fellowships to women and the new partnerships with the private sector, citing the example of L’Oréal. It was felt that  that type of activity raised UNESCO’s visibility in its Member States through its National Commissions. Other speakers  intervened to express their gratitude to the Member States which had generously contributed to the programme.  Representatives of donor countries made mention of the high standards achieved by the recipients of UNESCO  fellowships and their desire to see South/South cooperation strengthened.
5.28 The Deputy Assistant Director-General paid tribute to Member States’ support for the work that had been  accomplished and stressed the importance of the role of National Commissions in helping the Organization to achieve  its priority objectives. It was apparent that demand exceeded supply and that the co-sponsored fellowships scheme was  an excellent initiative for consolidating cooperation between UNESCO and the Member States and amongst the  Member States themselves.
5.29 Debate 8 dealt with item 4.3 – Part II.C, Chapter 6 and item 5.14, relating respectively to public information  and the situation of the UNESCO Courier. The Commission was informed that the sponsors of 31 C/DR.37 and some  other Member States had sought consensus in view of the complexity of the item. I therefore proposed that the  Commission should not debate this item, in view of the exhaustive deliberations of the Executive Board on the subject.  Having received their consent, I then proposed a draft resolution based on document 31 C/58 Corr. containing the  decision of the Executive Board at its 162nd session, which recommends to the General Conference that it request the  Director-General to review the concept, content and cost of the Courier, maintaining it as a flagship publication of the  communication and public information strategy. This draft resolution was adopted by acclamation. Consequently,
31 C/DR.37 was withdrawn by its sponsors. Several delegates then took the floor to explain their perspectives, with the  majority reaffirming their commitment to the UNESCO Courier.
5.30 Speakers largely supported the Director-General’s efforts to introduce a new information and communication  strategy. Several emphasized the importance of information technologies and expressed the hope that UNESCO would  work to reduce the digital divide. Clearly divergent views were expressed by delegates with respect to differing  interpretations of the text contained in paragraph 4 of the resolution as adopted. Some delegations, while wishing to see  the publication maintained, stressed the importance of giving the Director-General all the flexibility needed with regard
549  to its content, format and frequency of publication. Others expressed the wish to see the magazine maintained in its  current format and periodicity. The Director-General, having taken note of the resolution and of the debate on the  matter, and taking into account the resources available, would determine the format, frequency and methods of  production of a new UNESCO Courier.
5.31 In his statement, the Director of the Bureau of Public Information deplored the very poor coverage of  UNESCO’s activities in the media. He remarked that, in order to become an essential point of reference in its fields of  competence, the Organization would have to develop closer professional relations with the press and with the  audiovisual and electronic media throughout the world. That objective could be attained by redeploying the human  resources existing in the Bureau of Public Information with a view to creating a genuine UNESCO press agency which  would cover all the Organization’s sectors and programmes and whose work would help to enhance and enlighten  democratic debate and imbue it with UNESCO’s values. The publication of a periodical magazine, chiefly for academic  and scientific circles, teachers and other milieux sharing the main concerns and objectives of UNESCO, was part of that  new strategy.
5.32 I was requested to incorporate in this report, Mr President, the fact that Commission I found it necessary to call  upon the Secretariat to produce a corrigendum to document 31 C/58, reflecting accurately the decision of the Executive  Board to recommend to the General Conference that it adopt its recommendation contained in 162 EX/Decision 9.1.
5.33 Finally, Debate 9 reflected on item 6.4, “Relations between the three organs of UNESCO: role of the General  Conference with respect to the Medium-Term Strategy (C/4) and the Programme and Budget (C/5)”. In the course of  three meetings 51 Member States took the floor. Three major issues of critical concern for the Member States emerged:  the question of representation regarding examination of this highly complex and politically sensitive subject;  clarifications on the decision-making process regarding the proposals to be determined; and finally the logistical factors  and possible operating cost of a working group.
5.34 Delegates expressed the need for a decision-making mechanism that was inclusive and open-ended. They also  stressed that the Secretariat must ensure that documentation be sent in an efficient and timely manner to give Member  States the requisite time prior to such meetings for their effective reflection on and consideration of issues raised. Many  of these arguments were reiterated in the course of the discussion on the draft resolution.
5.35 Canada had submitted document 31 C/COM.I/DR.2 for consideration by the Commission. It requested the  President of the General Conference to establish an ad hoc working group with the mandate to reflect on the governance  of UNESCO. Germany, Lebanon, Saint Lucia and Spain subsequently submitted amendments. The amendment  introduced by Saint Lucia proposed alternatively that it was rather for the Special Committee of the Executive Board to  pursue its examination of the subject.
5.36 Some delegates were in favour of establishing the proposed working group and expressed the wish that the  National Commissions be involved in the reform process, and that it involve both the Executive Board and the General  Conference. It was emphasized that the work of the group should be of an intellectual character rather than limited to  merely legal and institutional considerations, and that the political character of the reform should also be taken into  account.
5.37 While drawing attention to the fact that the Special Committee of the Executive Board had not had enough  time to adequately finish its analysis of the subject, those delegates who were essentially opposed to the establishment  of a new working group urged that every effort be made to enable the Committee to continue its work.
5.38 Questions were raised with respect to the probable costs of the proposed working group. The Director of the  Bureau of the Budget stated that many factors needed to be considered in this context, including the frequency of  meetings, the number of participants, travel to and from the meeting, costs of interpretation and costs of documentation.  He provided an estimate to assist the deliberations of the Commission and noted that the above-listed factors would  need to be determined in order to arrive at an accurate budget estimate. Furthermore, he noted that any such figure  would have implications for the budget ceiling of the Organization. One delegate took the floor to explain how a former  working group, previously established by the General Conference, functioned and how it had been financed, notably  through several sources including the regular budget, extrabudgetary sources and voluntary contributions.
5.39 A question was raised as to whether the General Conference could amend the mandate of the Special  Committee, it being a subsidiary organ of the Executive Board. The Legal Adviser explained that the General  Conference could neither amend the mandate nor the composition of such a subsidiary organ, but that Member States  could participate in the work of such a committee without the right to vote. He further stated that both the General  Conference and the Executive Board could indeed set up such working groups whenever they deemed it necessary.
5.40 The Commission then examined the draft resolution submitted by Canada in conjunction with amendments  proposed by Germany, Lebanon, Saint Lucia and Spain. Since the members of the Commission were unable to reach  consensus on a text, I deemed it necessary to proceed to a vote. After consultations with the Legal Adviser, the proposal  by Saint Lucia, incorporating the amendment of Spain, was identified as that to be “the furthest removed in substance  from the original proposal” as stipulated in Rule 93.2 of the Rules of Procedure. I then put this proposal to the vote.  Forty-nine delegates voted in favour, 28 against and 5 abstained. Accordingly, 31 C/COM.I/DR.2 was adopted as  amended.
5.41 Following the outcome of the vote, the delegate of Germany indicated that paragraph 2 of the resolution should  in no way be taken to call into question the role and authority of the President of the General Conference, and requested  that this statement be included in my oral report. Saint Lucia also supported this point. Some Member States then went  on to explain their vote.
5.42 Mr President, I have now concluded the presentation of the report of Commission I. I should like to take this  opportunity to extend once again my appreciation to all those who participated in the Commission’s work in a spirit of  cooperation and goodwill. My thanks go also to the members of the Bureau of the Commission for their collaboration as  well as to the representative of the Director-General and his colleagues, the Secretary of the Commission and her staff  for their guidance, assistance and excellent sense of humour. Last but not least, I should like to thank the interpreters,  the translators, the room clerks, and the technicians, without whom we would not have had any debate! Thank you for  having given me the floor.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson, for an excellent and very comprehensive report. Allow me to  congratulate you and all the members of the Commission on such a good job accomplished in record time. Before we  move to the adoption of the report, I would like to ask if there is any item which you wish to take up separately. I see  that there is not. May I consider, distinguished colleagues, that the General Conference wishes to take note of the report  of Commission I and approve the proposed draft resolutions? Thank you. It is so decided.
6.2 Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to give the floor to the Director-General.  You have the floor, sir.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Mr President. With your permission I would like to make some very, very brief remarks  about the resolution on the Courier you have just adopted. Certainly I will do my best to implement the resolution you  have adopted, but I would like to remind you that this resolution is open to different interpretations, as I witnessed in the  Commission, where a number of divergent and sometimes contradictory comments were made by many members; I  would, however, like also to point out that, in spite of these differences, what also emerges from the debates, and also  from earlier debates in the Board and elsewhere, is that there is broad agreement on the subject. I would like to make  two points. The first is that the Courier should not disappear as a title and also as a high-quality public forum for  intellectual debate. The second is that the Secretariat should be given great flexibility in redefining its concept, content  and cost, and that this new Courier should be seen as one element among others of UNESCO’s new communication and  information strategies.
7.2 I would like to add that the cost of the new Courier will have to be covered from the budget available to the  Bureau of Public Information unless we obtain extrabudgetary funding. Without extrabudgetary funding it will mean a  radical departure from the past in terms, among others, of periodicity and modalities of production and dissemination. If  we receive sufficient extrabudgetary funding, which I hope we will, with cooperation from Member States who have  supported the continuation of the Courier, in particular, that will help me in terms of periodicity and also of the  modalities of production and dissemination. Otherwise, I repeat, my hands will be very, very tied.
7.3 The next point I would like to make very rapidly is that the new communication and information strategies’  principal objective is to increase our visibility in the eyes not just of intellectual elites but also of the public at large, in  order to give UNESCO’s programmes and pronouncements more weight and more influence in the public debate. In  order to achieve this we need to focus more energy and resources on media-oriented activities. These will now be at the  heart of our public information programme and I am confident that, as a result, UNESCO’s voice will soon reach more  people, more loudly than ever before. There again, of course, I would like to have full cooperation from Member States.  Thank you very much.
8. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, for this very useful information and statement.
551  RAPPORT DU COMITE DES CANDIDATURES   REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  INFORME DEL COMITÉ DE CANDIDATURAS  ДОКЛАД КОМИТЕТА ПО КАНДИДАТУРАМ  א   提名委员会的报告
9. The PRESIDENT:   I would now like to invite the distinguished Chairperson of the Nominations Committee to take the floor.  Ambassador Galán Sarmiento, you have the floor.
(10.1) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia), Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. The report before you (document 31 C/66), distinguished delegates, contains the final  proposals of the Nominations Committee with regard to the composition of committees, commissions and other subsidiary  organs of the General Conference, following the elections which were held yesterday, Thursday, 1 November, in Room IV.
(10.2) Mr President, once the report has been adopted by the plenary, I should like to make some observations with  regard to the functioning of the Nominations Committee. Thank you very much, Mr President.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Ambassador Galán Sarmiento, I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues in the Nominations  Committee for its excellent work. Before we come to the approval of the report, I should like to ask the room if there is  any item that you would like to discuss separately. As I see there is not, I consider that the General Conference takes  note of the report of the Nominations Committee and approves the resolution proposed therein. Thank you. I would now  like to give the floor once more to the distinguished Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, in order to allow him  to share with us his remarks on the functioning of the Committee. Ambassador, you have the floor.
(12.1) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia) Chairperson of the Nominations Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Distinguished delegates: first of all, I should like to thank you for your close  and productive cooperation with the Nominations Committee over these three weeks, which has enabled it to function  smoothly and to participate actively and effectively both in the election of the Members of the Executive Board, item 12.1  of the agenda, and in the elections concerning the various subsidiary organs of the General Conference, items 12.2 to 12.15  of the agenda. In that connection I should like to highlight the significant civic participation of the Member States in all the  stages preceding those elections, despite a certain complexity in the procedures for voting by secret ballot and the need to  comply strictly with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. This constructive and friendly atmosphere also  made it possible for us to fulfil the mandate of the Nominations Committee, as set forth in Rule 35 of the Rules of  Procedure.
(12.2) So it was that, at the start of the 31st session of the General Conference, the Committee, after examining the  recommendations of the Executive Board, submitted the list of nominations for the posts of President and of the Vice- Presidents of the General Conference and the proposals concerning the presiding officers of the programme commissions,  the Administrative Commission and the committees, including its own officers.
(12.3) It is also the case that the Committee was able, for the second consecutive time, successfully to apply all the  procedural amendments adopted by the General Conference at its 29th session in 1997. These included: first, the definitive  adoption of a simple majority as the criterion for the election of candidates having obtained the larger number of votes;  secondly, a deadline of 48 hours before the ballot for candidatures to be declared admissible; and thirdly, distinctively  coloured ballot paper bearing the names of the countries that are candidates for election in each electoral group, with boxes  appearing opposite the name of each candidate. Despite the progressive acceptance and endorsement of these  improvements, which have unquestionably helped to clarify the voting procedures, there remain a number of questions,  which some Member States raised at our meetings, with regard to the origin of the resolutions which created and gave  institutional form to the committees, councils and commissions which today constitute the subsidiary organs of the General  Conference.
(12.4) I refer in particular to the representation of Member States in some of the subsidiary organs by electoral groups,  which would not seem to reflect the geographical balances in today’s world, as we enter a new century with different  geopolitical parameters. At this General Conference, questions are being raised with regard to the distribution of Member  States by electoral group in some of these organs, for example the Legal Committee. This particular example brings to  mind the consultations initiated by the Executive Board in 1995, on the request of the General Conference, on the size and  composition of the subsidiary organs, but with the notable exception of the Legal Committee, and which culminated in the  adoption of 28 C/Resolution 22 by the General Conference at its 28th session in November 1995. The basic texts of the  Organization do not always provide effective and decisive answers to these questions and sincere requests, which are based  on legitimate preoccupations. This cannot be regarded as an institutional shortcoming or legal void. The truth is that if there  is a problem with regard to the composition of some of the subsidiary organs of the General Conference, which is  determined through elections organized by the Nominations Committee in pursuance of its mandate, the problem is directly  linked to the resolutions by which each of those organs has been established (Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedures of the  General Conference) and which reflect the will of the Member States.
(12.5) What we are dealing with here, then, are historical factors, political will and the need of the Member States, at  different stages in the life of the Organization, to adjust and adapt to the statutes that govern those organs and which,  strictly speaking, constitute their normative basis. However, the years have not passed in vain and the interests and political  stances of the Member States have evolved in parallel with the transformations that UNESCO has undergone, particularly  over the last decade. Thus there appears to be a need to modify the geographical composition of these organs and their  committees or governing bodies in order to reflect the desire and the determination of certain electoral groups to participate  more fully, in both the quantitative and qualitative sense, in these organs. This would ensure a more active and direct  participation in the meetings that are held and in the decision-making process, which exert a constant influence on the life  of the Organization through the approved programmes and administrative provisions. Perhaps, along the lines of an appeal  reflecting the issues raised by some Member States, the General Conference might envisage the means of formulating  proposals concerning the representation of Member States and the distribution of seats within an electoral group, in a  particular organ or in several of them, increasing, for example, the representation, thereby seeking to establish within the  organ a different balance from that which emerged and was accepted at the time it was set up, as was the case with the  Legal Committee.
(12.6) It would therefore be judicious and opportune if the General Conference, bearing in mind this appeal, decided to  entrust the examination of this question to one of the governing bodies. The Executive Board might, as it did in 1995,  examine the question of the distribution of seats in the subsidiary organs. I am certain that this request would be made  effectively and through the proper administrative channels by the electoral group or groups that today think it is necessary  to review the composition of the said committee, before the 32nd session of the General Conference in 2003. These same  requests which were made with regard to a particular subsidiary organ of the General Conference have been echoed  elsewhere. For example, a Member State of the Pacific subregion expressed, in a written communication sent to the  Nominations Committee on 30 October, the interest of the Pacific Member States, part of Electoral Group IV (ASPAC), in  increasing the number of seats they currently hold, that is, from two to three seats, thereby modifying internally the  distribution of seats in Electoral Group IV to which 12 seats have been assigned: 10 for Asia and two for the Pacific. Under  the Pacific States’ proposal, the internal distribution of seats would be modified as follows: nine for Asia and three for the  Pacific. This proposal is an example of the kind of internal agreement which might be reached by electoral groups and  applied during the balloting in a harmonious fashion, as was the case with other elected organs during the voting process  just completed.
(12.7)  I should also like to mention another issue raised by a Member State which reflects other requests already made  in previous years and, in particular, during the 30th session of the General Conference: the information which the  Secretariat should provide to the Member States with regard to each of the subsidiary organs whose membership is renewed  by election every two years. The Secretariat and the Sector for External Relations naturally publish a brochure containing  information on the electoral composition of each organ and the period for which they have been elected. Nevertheless, such  information is apparently insufficient. It is necessary, not to say indispensable, that each brochure contain the following  information: first, the origin of each organ; secondly, the terms of reference and the year of approval of the statutes by the  General Conference; thirdly, the meetings that have been held during the last biennium, with precise information on the  results obtained; and fourthly, relevant information on the number of outgoing members and the time period during which  candidatures of Member States may be submitted. We are of the opinion, therefore, that relevant information for Member  States, transmitted early, six months or one year before the General Conference, would be greatly appreciated and would  benefit the preparation of the work of the Nominations Committee before and during the General Conference.
(12.8) It is in this context that a Member State, taking the floor at the end of our last meeting yesterday, Thursday  evening, referred to the fact that these elections to the subsidiary organs of the General Conference (and the Committee  voted by secret ballot in the case of 12 organs) appear to the Member States above all as electorally complex, because of  the procedures involved, which makes it difficult to focus on the importance of their contents and structural ties with the  various aspects of the Organization’s programme. For the Member States it is not simply a matter of seeking an electoral  victory, which is certainly important, but also to ensure that in these committees and commissions the persons appointed by  the Member States have a certain level of experience and knowledge, as required by the objectives and statutes of those  organs. Furthermore, a question should be raised in the near future about the fact that if these elections have a logical link  to the various programmes, they might be carried out in each programme commission, during the General Conference, in  order to make them more significant and ensure a better follow-up.
(12.9) Distinguished delegates, before concluding my statement, I should like to pay tribute to the President of the  General Conference for his support throughout the electoral process, to Ms Ugne Karvelis, Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate of Lithuania and presiding officer during the election of the Members of the Executive Board and also to all the  tellers who carried out competently and generously the task entrusted to them: Ms Rosa Moreira de Lemoine (El Salvador);  Ms Catherine Seguin (France); Ms Anne Siwicki (Australia); Ms Alexandra Veleva (Bulgaria); Ms Rukhsana Zia  (Pakistan); Ms Claudia Zampieri (Argentina); Mr Muhammed Al-Shatti (Kuwait); Mr Ibrahim Elghaly (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya); Mr Darius Mereckis (Lithuania); Mr Carlos Vieira (Guinea-Bissau) and Mr Luiz De Albuquerque Veloso  (Portugal).
(12.10) I should also like to thank the Vice-Chairpersons of our Committee, the delegates of Switzerland, Romania,  Rwanda and Oman, who followed our work with interest and a spirit of cooperation, and I am grateful also to the  Rapporteur, Mr Jimmy Bentley (Fiji). I should furthermore like to thank Mr Stany Kol and Mr A. Yusuf, Legal Adviser of  the Organization. My thanks go also to Mr Sayyad, Assistant Director-General for External Relations and Cooperation, for  his amicable presence and his encouraging words to the Member States. I thank the interpreters for the important work they  have been doing everyday, with patience and professionalism, to Mr Boulares, their chief of service, to the entire staff of  the Control and Planning Unit for their efficient work, to the chief of service in charge of the General Conference rooms for  his cooperation, to the document officers and their chief of service, Mr Alexandre Coutelle for their valuable work. Last but  not least, I should like to thank, on my own behalf and on behalf of all of you, the staff of the Secretariat of the  Nominations Committee for their efficient and sustained support – Ms Mirtha Lachs, Ms Krista Pikkat, Ms Rosanna Karma  and the Secretary, Mr Jorge Iván Espinal. Thank you, Mr President.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Galán Sarmiento. You have provided us with some very useful  information on how to improve the functioning of this House. We are very grateful to you and your colleagues.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION IV : RESOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION IV: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN IV: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ IV: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  אא א:א א א א   第 IV 委员会的报告：决议和建议
14. The PRESIDENT:   We are now going to examine the report of Commission IV, which is contained in documents 31 C/64 and  Addendum and Corrigendum. Ambassador Villarroel, distinguished Chairperson of Commission IV, I invite you to take  the floor.
15.1 Mr VILLARROEL (Philippines), Chairperson of Commission IV:   I hope, Mr President, that you have an ample supply of chocolates because I will take more than eight minutes,  which I think will enable me to a whole box of After Eights. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour  for me to present to you the outcome of the work undertaken by Commission IV for adoption at this plenary meeting of  the General Conference. The decisions taken are reflected in document 31 C/64 and 31 C/64 Addendum and  Corrigendum which incorporate the amendments suggested during the adoption of the report by our Commission.
15.2 Mr President, I am sure you will agree that the work of Commission IV holds particular significance for us  now as we find ourselves at the dawn of a new millennium. This 31st session of the General Conference is taking place  in the aftermath of the events of 11 September. Yet amidst uncertainty, we have come together in a spirit of true  intercultural dialogue. As so many delegates have noted, never before have the themes of culture and respect for  diversity taken on so much meaning and importance. At no time has it been more essential for wisdom and courage to  take precedence over our differences. We can be proud of the work we have accomplished together in Commission IV,  and proud of the contribution we are poised to make through the adoption of this report for the advancement of world  peace and understanding through culture.
15.3 Given time restrictions, this presentation cannot be exhaustive. I will nevertheless endeavour through this  report to reflect accurately the nature of our discussions and the statements made by participants. I will not mention the  names of specific Member States taking part in the debates, unless such an indication has been explicitly requested.
15.4 Briefly, then, the work of our Commission was divided into five debates. The first debate provided delegates  with an opportunity to present their views on the Medium-Term Strategy and the preparation of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2004-2005. Debate 2 covered the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 as well as the Draft  UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity and its accompanying action plan. In debate 3, we proceeded to  consider acts constituting a crime against the common heritage of humanity; the proclamation of 2004 as International
556  Year to Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition; UNESCO’s association with the World Book  Capital; and finally, preparation of a new international standard-setting instrument for the safeguarding of the intangible  cultural heritage. In debate 4, we discussed the draft convention concerning the protection of the underwater cultural  heritage. And lastly, in debate 5, we addressed the issue of Jerusalem and the implementation of 30 C/Resolution 28,  followed by consideration of 30 C/Resolution 54 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab  territories.
15.5 I shall start with the first debate on the Medium-Term Strategy, which opened with presentations by the  Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning and the Assistant Director-General for Culture. Overall, the response to  document 31 C/4 was very positive and most of the speakers welcomed its quality and concision. They approved its  new lines of emphasis and expressed their satisfaction with the three strategic objectives presented in the field of  culture. In particular, they expressed support for strategic objective 8 concerning cultural diversity, pluralism and  intercultural dialogue, which some of them wished to see strengthened. Many speakers emphasized the obvious but  often forgotten links between education and culture programmes, and called for better coordination.
15.6 Delegates acknowledged the emphasis placed on world heritage in document 31 C/4 and expressed their  willingness to pursue efforts in this area. Other key issues raised were the dialogue among cultures and civilizations –  underpinning the notion of protection of cultural diversity – and the strengthening of standard-setting work in the areas  of cultural diversity and the protection of the intangible and underwater cultural heritage. However, some delegates also  expressed concern that the link between culture and development did not emerge clearly enough from the Medium- Term Strategy and that the new avenues opened up by the Stockholm Conference may have been left too far aside.
15.7 With regard to the drafting and implementation of standard-setting instruments (strategic objective 7), Member  States recalled the twofold role of UNESCO, first in proposing new instruments and secondly in enforcing them. The
1972 Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage was unanimously recognized as the  pillar of standard-setting action of the Organization in this domain and the basis on which any further normative work in  the cultural field must be developed. During the debate, there was also discussion about the moral duty of the  Organization to react and to mobilize the international community when cultural heritage is looted, stolen or destroyed.
15.8 On the subject of cultural diversity, pluralism and dialogue (strategic objective 8), delegates reiterated their  unanimous support for the Declaration on Cultural Diversity, which they wished to see adopted by the General  Conference during its present session. Some delegates stressed that culture and diversity are dynamic in nature and  therefore not in need of protection per se. More important would be to look at measures that safeguard the conditions  necessary for their continued existence and evolution. In this same spirit, delegates emphasized that dialogue amongst  civilizations and cultures must be sustained in order to counteract misunderstanding and mistrust. A review of the  activities carried out during the International Year of Dialogue among Civilizations was requested and some States  asked that its principles continue to inspire the activities of the Organization.
15.9 Finally, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that the recommendations by the Executive  Board contained in document 31 C/11 be adopted, with the exception of paragraph 64 regarding the title of strategic  objective 8. In particular, the word “pluralism” was to be retained, as are the recommendations emanating from the  Drafting Group on document 31 C/4. The delegate of Germany wished to have these points reflected in the present  report.
15.10 Delegates then addressed the linkages between culture and development (strategic objective 9). Strong  emphasis was placed on new cultural approaches to sustainable development, the collection of statistical data and the  elaboration of cultural indicators to support the preparation and implementation of adequate cultural policies. In  addition, cultural policies, it was said, could not be determined without the full participation of all stakeholders in  society, including creators, artists, educators, minorities and other marginalized groups. Delegates also underscored the  central importance of mobilizing international multilateral bodies to sustain training in cultural management and related  cultural professions, particularly in Africa.
15.11 Delegates unanimously recognized the priority given to the promotion of domestic cultural industries and  crafts, and many of them warmly welcomed the proposal for a Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity, with most  praising its front-edge, innovative nature. Some delegates highlighted the importance of cultural tourism and asked for  UNESCO’s support in this area. Finally, delegates underscored the role of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as  key partners in implementing UNESCO’s culture programmes; they called for greater resources for art education and  recommended greater involvement of young people in safeguarding the heritage.
15.12 I now turn to debate 2. During its third to sixth meetings, the Commission examined item 4.3 on the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2002-2003; Major Programme IV – Culture, as a whole; and item 8.3 concerning the Draft  UNESCO Declaration on Cultural Diversity. Immediately after some clarifications provided by the representative of the  Director-General on item 8.3, the Commission recommended by acclamation and without debate the adoption of the
557  UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity together with the main lines of its action plan. After the  adoption, some delegates expressed concerns and/or comments on this item, which they wished to have put on record.  The delegates of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom stated their concern about the inclusion of the words “legal  instrument” in the first paragraph of the action plan. The delegate of Barbados expressed her uneasiness with the  wording of the first sentence of Article 11 of the Declaration, considering that it could give rise to differences of  interpretation, and she stressed that market forces are not intrinsically a positive or negative factor in the preservation  and promotion of cultural diversity. Furthermore, the delegates of Slovenia, Belgium and Finland made suggestions and  observations on the implementation of the action plan.
15.13 During debate 2, most delegates underscored that, now more than ever, there is a need for intercultural  dialogue and respect for cultural diversity. This appeal set the tone of our discussions. It was thought that the unanimous  adoption of the first international text on cultural diversity would be viewed as a major landmark for UNESCO’s  programme during the coming years and for the international community as a whole. As numerous delegates indicated,  this Declaration represents considerable progress. But it will henceforward be necessary to implement the principles  that it sets out, to develop its action plan and to adjust UNESCO’s action towards that purpose. In this regard, although  there was ample and general support for the draft programme as it was presented in document 31 C/5, many speakers  called for a systematic assessment of results and an evaluation of the implementation of the next programme and  budget.
15.14 The key role of the world heritage programme was once more stressed, although delegates of Pacific States  asked for a more balanced World Heritage List. Support was expressed for the promotion of the 1972 Convention on  the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The World Heritage Centre was congratulated on its work, but several  delegates spoke of the need for better integration and coordination between the Centre and the Culture Sector. A good  many delegates also emphasized the need for stronger action to implement the 1970 Convention on the Means of  Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
15.15 Delegates also expressed strong support for the development of a new standard-setting instrument for the  protection of the intangible cultural heritage, seen as a logical continuation of the 1972 Convention. They insisted,  however, that more conceptual clarity was required before establishing such an instrument. That effort should be carried  out with the participation of the bearers of such heritage, in particular indigenous peoples. It should be undertaken in  close cooperation with sister agencies in the United Nations system, particularly the World Intellectual Property  Organization, to avoid overlaps. Several delegates also mentioned the importance of UNESCO support for regional or  single-country actions in the revitalization of the intangible cultural heritage and praised concrete programmes in this  area.
15.16 As in the case of the heritage programme, delegates welcomed actions proposed in document 31 C/5 for  encouraging creativity, developing and strengthening the arts industries, design and crafts. With regard to the  interactions between UNESCO’s work and that of other international bodies, specific mention was made of the nature  of UNESCO’s action in the area of copyright. The value of the Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity for all cultural  industries, such as books, music and film, was again emphasized by several speakers.
15.17 With a view to strengthening dialogue among civilizations and cultures, many delegates expressed their  appreciation of the general and regional history projects. The delegates of Argentina, Panama, Turkey, Uruguay,  Honduras, Venezuela, Colombia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Georgia, Brazil and Barbados underlined the need,  particularly urgent in the current situation, not only to complete these projects but also to exploit the new knowledge  they provide in innovative ways. In renewing their support to this programme, delegates requested the assigning of  additional resources to complete these projects. Delegates also commended the work accomplished by UNESCO  partner institutes for intercultural dialogue, particularly in Central Asia and the Indian Ocean.
15.18 In conclusion, delegates emphasized: (i) further support for the conception and implementation of cultural  policies and professional training in the field of culture; (ii) greater attention to linguistic diversity; (iii) the need to link  cultural diversity to productivity in cultural industries; and finally (iv) increased attention to art and heritage education.
15.19 The representative of the Director-General replied to the various questions raised during the debate and  thanked all those who had contributed to the preparation of the Draft Declaration on Cultural Diversity.
15.20 The Commission then proceeded to examine the 27 draft resolutions submitted by Member States concerning  Major Programme IV and the recommendations of the Executive Board in document 31 C/6. In addition, the  Commission examined the budgetary provision for Major Programme IV. Upon completion of its review, the  Commission decided to transmit its recommendations to the General Conference. They are contained in the written  report of Commission IV (31 C/64 and Add. and Corr.).
15.21 The sixth meeting of the Commission was devoted to debate 3 on items 5.5, 5.9, 5.15 and 8.6 of the agenda,  covering diverse topics such as the protection of our shared heritage, commemoration of human history and projects to  bolster creativity and development. Delegates discussed these items in a single debate. For clarity, however, we shall  present them in the order of the debates as set out in the timetable of work.
15.22 Item 5.5 – Acts constituting a crime against the common heritage of humanity. Numerous speakers expressed  their interest in, and concern for, the strengthening of UNESCO’s action to protect the tangible cultural and natural  heritage from intentional acts of destruction. The interventions dealt with three main issues, namely, the terminology to  describe such acts, the ways to prevent their occurrence and the need to promote and apply more vigorously the existing  standard-setting instruments. Overall, it was thought that UNESCO’s role in this domain should be that of an educator  rather than that of a “censor”. Therefore, the Organization should further emphasize education about cultural heritage  values to counter acts of destruction and reinforce other preventive actions already led by the World Heritage  Committee. Delegates also expressed their wish that any normative action in this area should be developed respecting  existing international law and the sovereignty of States. The Commission retained the proposal to pursue work on a  draft declaration concerning the intentional destruction of cultural heritage, rather than on the intentional destruction,  and it recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the draft resolution proposed in paragraph 7 of document
31 C/46 as amended.
15.23 Item 5.9 – Proclamation of 2004 as International Year to Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its  Abolition. The Commission welcomed this initiative proposed by Haiti. Slavery was strongly associated with acts of  violence and identified as one of the vectors of racism and intolerance. The persistence of slavery today – under new  forms – should be condemned, as mentioned by the delegate of Finland. Delegates gave a positive assessment of the  impact of the Slave Route project, particularly on Caribbean heritage. The Commission then recommended to the  General Conference that it adopt the draft resolution in document 31 C/COM.IV/DR.3 as amended.
15.24 Item 5.15 – UNESCO’s association with the World Book Capital. A number of delegates highlighted the  importance of this project proposed by Spain, which aims to promote literary culture and receives wide support. On the  understanding that all world regions would be involved, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that  it adopt the draft resolution in document 31 C/70.
15.25 Item 8.6 – Preparation of a new international standard-setting instrument for the safeguarding of the intangible  cultural heritage. A large majority of delegates spoke on the need for an international standard-setting instrument to  safeguard the intangible cultural heritage following the widely supported 1972 Convention on the Protection of the  World Cultural and Natural Heritage. Many of them emphasized that, in the light of the threats facing traditional  cultures in a globalized world, such an instrument was urgently needed to protect the fragile nature of this heritage. In  addition, the importance of the full participation of the bearers and transmitters of this heritage was unanimously  underlined and, in some specific contexts, close cooperation with interparliamentary bodies and indigenous peoples was  proposed. However, some delegates stressed that it was necessary to clarify further the concept of “intangible cultural  heritage” and continue with the efforts already under way. They recommended caution in establishing criteria to define  “intangible culture heritage” given its dynamic and evolving nature. Other delegates recalled the importance of working  in close cooperation with other concerned international bodies, such as the World Intellectual Property Organization, in  order to avoid overlaps.
15.26 At the end of the debate, four amendments were introduced respectively by Grenada, Australia, the  Netherlands and Algeria concerning the draft resolution proposed in document 31 C/43. The amendments proposed by  the Netherlands and Algeria were withdrawn by their authors. The amendments by Grenada and by Australia were put  to the vote. The amendment proposed by Grenada consisted in replacing paragraphs 4 and 5 of the proposed resolution  in document 31 C/43. This amendment was rejected by 36 votes against, 19 votes in favour and 0 abstentions. The  amendment by Australia in paragraph 5 of the proposed resolution concerned replacing the word “regulation” by  “standard-setting”. This amendment was adopted by 37 votes in favour, 0 against and 18 abstentions. After the vote, the  Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the proposed resolution in document 31 C/43 as  amended in the light of the debate.
15.27 During the adoption of the Commission’s report, 18 Member States formally asked me to report to you about  their reservations in relation to various concerns. Please allow me to read the names of the Member States who have  expressed their reservations in writing: Argentina, Barbados, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,  Grenada, Greece, Mexico, Norway, Netherlands, Portugal, Switzerland, Sweden, Spain, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and  the Grenadines and the United Kingdom. First, it was firmly stressed that the issue is a delicate and complex one which  requires a cautious approach. Secondly, it was considered premature to decide at this stage on the nature of the required  international standard-setting instrument. Consequently, it was not considered appropriate to keep in the proposed  resolution, in paragraphs 4 and 5, mention of an “international convention”, preference being given to the wording  “international standard-setting instrument”. Lastly, some Member States wished the “Rules of Procedure concerning
559  recommendations to Member States and international conventions covered by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of  the Constitution” to be strictly applied.
15.28 With regard to debate 4, the Commission then considered and debated item 8.4 concerning the elaboration of a  new international instrument concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage on the basis of documents
31 C/24 and Corr. 1 and 2 and Rev. The Chairperson of the fourth meeting of experts on the draft convention  concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage, Mr C. Lund, was invited to present a brief summary of the  background to the negotiations on the draft convention.
15.29 While all delegates indicated their support for UNESCO’s work on the protection of the underwater cultural  heritage, some States thought more time should have been given to the negotiations and regretted that it was not  possible to adopt the convention by consensus. Most States, however, emphasized the delicate balance that had been  reached and the spirit of compromise that had prevailed during the formal and informal work carried out by the  Secretariat in recent years, as well as the intensity of the negotiations, both formal and informal.
15.30 A vast majority of delegates – including the Group of 77 – were in favour of the draft convention and wished  to adopt it without amendment. A number emphasized the urgent need for the convention. Others had reservations  relating to the provisions concerning control on the continental shelf and the handling of warships. While some thought  that it was not compatible with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), others regretted that,  because the underwater cultural heritage convention was based on the Law of the Sea, it excluded States that were not  party to UNCLOS. The majority of States, however, thought that the new convention did conform to the Convention on  the Law of the Sea. All Member States reaffirmed their commitment to the Rules set out in the annex, which were  inspired by the Charter of the International Council on Monuments and Sites.
15.31 At this stage of the debate, the representative of the Director-General intervened to stress the urgent need for  suitable protection of the underwater cultural heritage, along the lines of the protection granted to archaeological  excavations on land. He highlighted the considerable step forward that such a fourth standard-setting instrument for  heritage protection would represent if adopted. To that end he urged States to deposit, as soon as possible, the
20 instruments of ratification required for it to enter into force.
15.32 The Commission then turned to consideration of the draft resolution. The Russian Federation and the United  Kingdom jointly moved an amendment that was voted on and not retained. France withdrew its proposed amendment.  The Commission then voted on the adoption of the convention as reflected in document 31 C/24 and decided to  recommend its adoption to the plenary of the General Conference with 94 votes in favour, 5 against and 19 abstentions.
15.33 Fifteen Member States made declarations to explain their vote and one observer delegate made a statement.  During the adoption of the Commission’s report, some Member States formally asked me to report to you about their  reservations in relation to various concerns and some provided these in writing.
15.34 Australia voted for the convention because it represented a delicate balance struck over many years’  negotiations and on the understanding that Article 2, paragraph 11, which was added after the approval of the text by  the expert committee, referred only to territorial disputes.
15.35 Côte d’Ivoire voted for the convention because the need for training is urgent, and a training seminar for  African States should be included in the programme of the Culture Sector.
15.36 Finland voted for the convention, but regretted the absence of consensus and gave its interpretations of four of  the convention’s provisions.
15.37 Venezuela and Turkey voted against, since both had problems with the provisions on dispute settlement, which  relied on those in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982 (Part XV) and neither are Party to that  Convention. They also did not accept the exclusion of reservations.
15.38 Turkey did not accept the use of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as a basis for the  underwater heritage Convention.
15.39 Venezuela, for its part, stated that its position in no way meant fundamental differences on the substance of the  text adopted by Commission IV, as stated within the Group of 77 and GRULAC.
15.40 The Russian Federation and Norway voted against on the grounds that the text was not compatible with the  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and noted that the new convention could not bind non-Parties.
15.41 Norway reserved its right to revert to this question in another forum. The Russian Federation thought  Article 10 could be interpreted as giving new rights to coastal States, which would lead to inefficacy of the convention  in respect of flag States’ rights and was concerned about the inviolability of sunken warships.
15.42 Uruguay and Greece abstained on the ground that coastal States’ rights were not sufficiently protected by the  convention; Greece also was concerned with the provision which did not meet its critical concerns and with the  complex system of Article 4 and Rule 2, which it believed was unworkable. Uruguay felt that it was also not  sufficiently compatible with existing acquired rights.
15.43 Chile abstained on the ground that some of the provisions might conflict with its national legislation on the law  of property and the scope of application of the convention.
15.44 Colombia supported the protection of the underwater cultural heritage but needed more time to study issues of  sovereignty and jurisdiction.
15.45 France and the United Kingdom abstained because of dissatisfaction with the articles on warships. The United  Kingdom also feared that the provisions on the continental shelf eroded the provisions in UNCLOS, and that the  convention would require it to extend the same very high levels of protection to all the many thousands of wrecks in its  territorial waters.
15.46 Sweden also abstained, regretting in particular the lack of consensus on warships and on coastal State  jurisdiction on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone: not all States active in the Baltic Sea were in  agreement and it feared a possible clash of regimes.
15.47 The Netherlands abstained from voting but reassured the Commission that it would continue to look for  possibilities for accession and implementation.
15.48 Israel, which also abstained, believed that, with more time, a consensus could have been reached and stated  that the convention would apply only to States Parties. These views were also shared by Sweden, Turkey, United  Kingdom, Norway, Russian Federation and United States, as observer.
15.49 The United States of America, as observer, explained that, while it supported many parts of the convention, if  it had had a vote, it would have voted against, because it objected to the provisions on jurisdiction, the reporting  scheme, warships and the relationship of the convention to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
15.50 In conclusion, most of the States which abstained or voted against the adoption of the convention expressed  their satisfaction with the Rules in the annex which had been adopted by a broad consensus and many indicated their  willingness to apply them unilaterally even if they did not become party to the convention or did already have similar  rules.
15.51 The last meeting of our Commission, debate 5, was devoted to items 5.2 and 5.3 pertaining to Jerusalem and  the implementation of 30 C/Resolution 28 and the application of 30 C/Resolution 54 concerning educational and  cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories.
15.52 With regard to item 5.2, and on the suggestion of the Chairperson, the Commission decided to recommend by  consensus draft resolution 31 C/COM.IV/DR.2 to the General Conference for adoption. The representatives of Israel  and Palestine took the floor. The representative of Israel informed the Commission that he did not wish to be associated  with the draft resolution and that he was not part of the consensus.1
15.53 The Commission then examined item 5.3. Draft resolution 31 C/COM.II-IV/DR.1 had been discussed and  adopted by Commission II. On the suggestion of the Chairperson, the Commission also recommended by consensus that  the General Conference adopt this draft resolution. The representative of Israel reiterated to the Commission that he did  not wish to be associated with the draft resolution and that he was not part of the consensus.1
15.54 Mr President, I have now completed the presentation of the report of Commission IV. I should like to take this  opportunity to extend once again my appreciation to all those who, in a spirit of cooperation and goodwill, participated  in the Commission’s work. My thanks also go to all the members of the Bureau of the Commission for their  collaboration as well as to the representative of the Director-General and his colleagues, to the Secretary of the  Commission and to his staff for their guidance and assistance. Last but not least, I should like to thank the interpreters,  translators, room clerks and technicians without whose support and cooperation we would not have been able to have  our debate. Thank you, Mr President.
1  The text of the intervention of Israel on this item is reproduced in full in document 31 C/INF.24 (Annex).
16.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Villarroel, distinguished Chairperson of Commission IV. We are aware  that the agenda of Commission IV really was a particularly difficult one, and you and your colleagues dealt with it very  well. Thank you very much for your excellent accomplishment. I would like to congratulate you, and all of your  colleagues, again for that.
16.2 Before coming to the adoption of our decision I should like to ask the room if there is any item that you wish to  take up separately. But I should remind you that item 8.4, “Draft convention concerning the protection of the  underwater cultural heritage”, will be examined separately after the adoption of the other decisions recommended to the  General Conference in the report since, as you know, the adoption of a convention requires a two-thirds majority.  Before I give you the floor, there is a very short point that the Secretary of the General Conference would like to make.  Sir, you have the floor.
17. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais appeler l'attention des délégués sur une erreur qui s'est glissée dans  l'Addendum et Corrigendum au Projet de rapport de la Commission IV. Il s'agit du document 31 C/64 Add. et Corr. A la  page 4 de la version française de ce document, et à la page 3 de sa version anglaise, il est indiqué au deuxième  paragraphe de la section relative au paragraphe 26 que, dans le préambule du projet de résolution considéré, il convient  d'ajouter un troisième alinéa se lisant - je cite - comme suit : "Considérant les formes contemporaines d'esclavage  …". C'est une erreur. Il faut lire : "Condamnant" - "Condemning" en anglais - les formes contemporaines d'esclavage  telles que la traite d'êtres humains". Merci, Monsieur le Président.
18. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Is there any item you would like to consider separately, other than the one I have  already mentioned? I see there is not, so I consider that the General Conference takes note of the report of  Commission IV and adopts the resolutions that are proposed therein, with the exception of the one that we will consider  separately. It is so decided.  POINT 8.4 : PROJET DE CONVENTION SUR LA PROTECTION DU PATRIMOINE CULTUREL  SUBAQUATIQUE  ITEM 8.4: DRAFT CONVENTION CONCERNING THE PROTECTION OF THE UNDERWATER CULTURAL  HERITAGE  PUNTO 8.4: PROYECTO DE CONVENCIÓN SOBRE LA PROTECCIÓN DEL PATRIMONIO CULTURAL  SUBACUÁTICO  ПУНКТ 8.4: ПРОЕКТ КОНВЕНЦИИ ОБ ОХРАНЕ ПОДВОДНОГО КУЛЬТУРНОГО НАСЛЕДИЯ  א:٨,٤א א א א א   议程项目 8.4：保护水下文化遗产的公约草案
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. We now come to item 8.4, “Draft convention concerning the protection of the  underwater cultural heritage” (31 C/24) which, as we have decided, we will examine separately. The adoption of this  convention by UNESCO requires a two-thirds majority of the Members present and voting at the General Conference. I  shall now put the draft resolution in paragraph 31 of document 31 C/64 to the vote. Will you please raise your plates.  Mr Secretary, will you please announce the results.
20. Le SECRETAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nombre de voix pour l'adoption du projet de résolution : 87. Nombre de voix  contre : 4. Nombre d'abstentions : 15. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
21.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I now announce that the General Conference has adopted the  Convention on the protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
21.2 Thank you very much. It was a very long and productive day. I would like to thank Ambassador Villarroel  once again. However, I have another point. I do not wish to upset you, because you manifested such an enthusiastic  taste for “After Eight”, but I feel very sorry that I cannot offer you any according to the “After Eight” Rules of  Procedure, because your report was perhaps the longest. The only way that I can make an exception is to suspend the  “After Eight” Rules of Procedure. And this can be done only by acclamation if I can have it. I see that the distinguished  delegate of the Russian Federation would like to take the floor. You have the floor, sir.
(22.1) Mr SIDOROV (Russian Federation) (Translation from the Russian):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish to explain my delegation’s vote. The Russian Federation attaches  great significance to the development of an effective universal mechanism for protecting the underwater cultural heritage.  The work done under UNESCO’s auspices has led to extremely important and encouraging results, including agreement on  rules for dealing with the underwater cultural heritage. The Russian delegation welcomes these achievements.
(22.2) At the same time, a number of provisions in the Convention are, for basic reasons, unacceptable to Russia.  Article 10, for example, can be interpreted as broadening, beyond the limits laid down by the 1982 United Nations  Convention on the Law of the Sea, the rights and jurisdiction of a coastal State over adjacent maritime areas. It can be  regarded as offering a coastal State the right, unilaterally and at its own discretion, to take any measures, not excluding the  use of force, on the pretext of protecting the underwater cultural heritage. We cannot agree to this. The ambiguity and  vagueness of some articles of the Convention are, in our view, bound to give rise to conflict situations.
(22.3) Furthermore, the draft restricts the effects of the common standards established in international law with respect  to the inviolability of sunken warships. The basis of the Russian position is that the Convention, in conformity with  international law, will be binding only on the States participating in it and consequently will not confer on its States Parties  any additional rights in relation to vessels under the flags of other States and to aircraft registered in other States.
(22.4) At the same time, Russia confirms its readiness to continue and develop cooperation for protection of the  underwater cultural heritage on the basis of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the consensual  aspects of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, as contained in the annex to it.
(22.5) I must ask you most insistently for this explanation to be included in the verbatim records of the General  Conference session. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
23. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Your comments are registered. I now give the floor to the distinguished delegate of  Japan. You have the floor, sir.
24. Mr TAKAHASHI (Japan):   Thank you very much, Mr President. My delegation would like to make some remarks regarding the  Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage that has just been adopted. We welcome the adoption  of the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage and wish to commend the untiring efforts made by  Mr Lund, Chairperson of the meeting of governmental experts on the draft Convention, the Member States, the
563  Secretariat and all the parties involved in the finalization of this draft Convention. We faced various difficulties in the  course of our negotiations but with great patience and cooperation we were able to come up with the final draft  Convention. As you all know, the focal-point issue was the relationship between the United Nations Convention on the  Law of the Sea and the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. While mindful of the need to  maintain conformity between the two, Japan actively participated in the concerted efforts to reach a consensus. Fully  convinced of the need to provide for a new international legal framework for the protection of underwater cultural  heritage, Japan voted for the Convention as, in its view, such need for conformity has been met. We would like to take  this opportunity to confirm that, as provided for in Article 3, this Convention shall be interpreted and applied in the  context of and in a manner consistent with international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of  the Sea. It is our hope that with the implementation of this Convention the precious underwater cultural heritage of  humanity will now be effectively protected. Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Your comments will be recorded. The distinguished representative of Turkey has the  floor.
26.1 Mr FIRAT (Turkey):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to explain my delegation’s vote on the Convention that was just  adopted. Turkey is one of the countries that voted against the adoption of the draft Convention on the Protection of the  Underwater Cultural Heritage. I will explain our position. Each country, including Turkey, participated in the  preparatory work on the draft Convention and spared no efforts in order to arrive at a satisfactory, comprehensive and  consequently global legal instrument. Turkey has a rich underwater cultural heritage, not only in the seas around her  coasts but also in various parts of the world. During negotiations much progress was made, but we observed that no  consensus was reached on substantial issues. In other words, the document prepared does not enjoy universal approval.  For instance, there is no consensus on the coastal State jurisdiction concerning underwater cultural heritage on the  continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone. The balance of rights and obligations between maritime States and  coastal States had to be preserved. Some articles of the Convention are still ambiguous and constitute some of the weak  points of the Convention. In our view, universal acceptance is the best way to guarantee the application of this  Convention. However, universal acceptance is lacking, unfortunately, because some substantive issues have not been  resolved.
26.2 Now I will briefly underline Turkey’s main difficulty with the Convention. In the text there are several  references to the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, for example in Articles 2, 3, 10 and 25. In  fact, the 1982 Convention is mentioned as one of the instruments constituting the legal framework for the new  Convention. Turkey is not a party to the 1982 Convention, therefore we cannot agree with these references and  interpretations. Article 25 of the Convention on the peaceful settlement of disputes is another matter which we cannot  go along with. In paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article, it is stated that, if no agreement is reached on the settlement of  disputes between States Parties, Part XV of the 1982 Convention, specifically Article 287, shall apply. Again, for the  same reason, as Turkey is not a party to the 1982 Convention, we cannot go along with this. Another issue with which  we have a problem is Article 30, which states that, with the exception of Article 29, no reservations may be made to this  Convention. This “no-reservation” clause is another reason why it is difficult for us to become a party to this  Convention. Our delegation, during the preparatory work, proposed a formula stating that any dispute between States  Parties concerning the interpretation or the implementation of the Convention ought to be settled primarily by  meaningful negotiations or by any other peaceful means, referred to in Article 33 of the United Nations Charter.  Although some delegations were in favour of this, others did not agree with it. Mr President, finally I would like to add  that, instead of facing imposed deadlines, if we had more time we believe that a much more balanced text could be  prepared. I request that this explanation of our vote be duly included in the verbatim records of the plenary. Thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. It will be recorded. Distinguished delegate of Denmark, you have the floor,  sir.
28.1 Mr LUND (Denmark):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  Denmark wishes to take the floor to explain its position in this matter and its commitment to the Convention on the  Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. We voted for the Convention. Although Denmark has not been  especially active in the debate during the negotiations on the Convention, that should not be interpreted as lack of  interest in the solutions reached. The protection of the underwater cultural heritage is very important to us, as is the  maintenance of the integrity of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the balance of rights, duties  and freedoms encompassed in that text. We find that the new Convention is clearly developing the provisions of the  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in a manner fully consistent with that Convention. It effectively fills a  gap in the protection of the underwater cultural heritage. We consider it to be urgently needed and we urge fellow
564  member countries to ratify and implement the Convention as soon as possible. In our view, the Convention strikes a  well-founded balance between the different interests presented during negotiations. That is why Denmark voted for the  Convention.
28.2 Mr President, allow me to express some more personal remarks. As Chairperson of the intergovernmental  committee throughout the negotiations, I take this opportunity to thank all the participating experts. It has been a  pleasure, indeed, an honour and also sometimes a challenge to preside over the negotiations. I would also like to thank  the Secretariat for their tremendous work. Last but not least, I want to thank the Director-General for his very  committed and enthusiastic interest in the work and his wise recommendations to the Committee and to myself. More  especially, I thank him for his generosity in allowing us the time we needed to finalize the text by negotiations that  pursued every opportunity to reach a consensus. I regret, of course, that a full consensus was not achieved but I am  convinced that this was not for lack of time. Thank you, Mr President.
29. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished observer of Denmark. I now invite the distinguished observer of Sweden,  followed by Venezuela, to take the floor. Sweden, you have the floor.
30. Mr BERNER (Sweden):   Thank you, Mr President. I wish to register an explanation of vote on the draft Convention on the Protection of  the Underwater Cultural Heritage, from which Sweden abstained. Regrettably, the text adopted will not gain support  from all States, particularly those that are active in our neighbouring seas. This makes it difficult for Sweden to take  part in this novel interpretation of international law. The consensus stumbled over two crucial issues, jurisdiction and  State vessels. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) does not regulate in a practical manner  how the underwater cultural heritage should be effectively protected. The need for international rules supplementing  UNCLOS was therefore obvious. In order for such new rules to be regarded as a legitimate, progressive development of  international law and, as a result, to create an effective legal regime, consensus is crucial. Our problem lies in the fact  that consensus has not been achieved as regards coastal State jurisdiction with respect to underwater cultural heritage  located on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone of the coastal State. The fact that it has not been  possible to reach consensus means that the Convention is not likely to be ratified by all States. This in turn will prevent  the rules contained in the Convention from achieving customary law status. Hence, we will be left with two legal  regimes that are likely to clash with each other. Since the Convention is only valid inter partes, it will be impossible to  implement it against the will of non-States Parties. Sweden regrets the fact that consensus could not be reached,  particularly since such consensus, in our view, might have been reached, had we had the chance to continue our work  on the text in a constructive manner. Still, we appreciate some important achievements of the Convention. The  provisions of the annex on rules concerning activities directed at underwater cultural heritage are most welcome.  Sweden will apply the majority of the rules in the annex voluntarily and irrespective of whether or not Sweden is a  Party to the Convention. Sweden welcomes the fact that the legal content of the rules concerning the mandate of the  coastal State in its declared contiguous zone is clarified in the Convention and regards this clarification as an indication  of the present status of customary law. Sweden has noted with satisfaction that there has been overwhelming support for  the inclusion of provisions to secure that proper respect shall be given to human remains in maritime waters. Sweden  still believes that measures must continue to be taken to protect underwater cultural heritage throughout the world. To  this end, Sweden has not excluded adhering to the Convention should it gain wide acceptance from a majority of States  representing all categories of concerned States, in particular those States neighbouring the Baltic Sea or States active in  the Baltic Sea. In the meantime, Sweden is prepared to explore further other means of international cooperation at a  regional level for the protection of the underwater cultural heritage, in particular the Baltic Sea. Thank you,  Mr President.
31. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I call our distinguished colleague from Venezuela. You have the floor, sir,  to be followed by Norway.
(32.1) Mr DÍAZ (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in light of what has taken place in Commission IV, the delegation of  Venezuela wished to take the floor to explain its objections to the text in question. In that regard, the delegation of  Venezuela reiterates its disagreement with the spirit of one of the paragraphs of Article 25 of the recently adopted  Convention. We consider that, in all respects, it is inappropriate to endeavour to impose on a State which is not a Party to  the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of March 1982 provisions contained in a legal instrument by which  we are not bound, not being a signatory to it, and, in particular, by the decision to apply Part XV of the aforementioned  Convention on the Law of the Sea, under which a State, regardless of whether it is a Party to the said Convention, is bound  to carry out procedures entailing binding decisions at the simple request of one of the parties.
(32.2) Moreover, Mr President we wish to stress the absence in the text of any scope for reservations, as just pointed out  by the delegation of Turkey. Lastly, the delegation of Venezuela should like to point out that a negative vote, as the  Chairperson of the Commission clearly said, for the reasons mentioned above, does not in any way indicate fundamental  differences with the substance of the instrument, a position which was expressed within the Group of 77 and the Latin  America and the Caribbean Group. Thank you very much, Mr President.
33. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, distinguished delegate of Venezuela. Distinguished delegate of Norway, you have the floor.
34.1 Ms WAGLE (Norway):   Thank you, Mr President, I would kindly ask you to ensure that the following explanation of vote is duly  recorded: Norway voted against the adoption of this Convention. Norway remains committed to a further strengthening  of international cooperation for the protection of underwater cultural heritage. The effective protection of this heritage  represents a global challenge which deserves our very best efforts. Accordingly, Norway has supported the development  of a convention for this purpose and devoted time and resources to contribute to this end. The Rules provided in the  annex to the Convention represent an important step forward in this respect. They deserve and enjoy our full support.  The Convention itself also provides appropriate principles and measures that serve to bring forward and strengthen  international cooperation for this purpose.
34.2 However, the Convention unfortunately also includes parts which jeopardize the fine balance of jurisdiction  achieved through the carefully drafted United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). This applies in  particular to provisions relating to the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf. Norway is committed to  maintaining the fine balance of the UNCLOS regime. Efforts to further strengthen the protection of underwater cultural  heritage should be promoted within this framework. This would ensure broad international agreement and support and  thus the efficiency such methods deserve. Norway regrets that the efforts to develop such a text have been unsuccessful.  On this basis, Norway is not in a position to support the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural  Heritage. Norway will furthermore be prevented from participation in any international cooperation based on the  Convention in relation to the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf. Norway will, however, consider  unilateral application of the Rules provided in the annex to the Convention on account of the urgent need of improving  the protection of underwater cultural heritage. Norway would also encourage other States to consider unilateral  application of these Rules. Finally, Norway considers that the Convention is covered by UNCLOS Article 311,  paragraph 3. The Convention on the Underwater Cultural Heritage does not affect the enjoyment by States non-Parties  to this Convention of their rights or performance of their obligations under UNCLOS. We will look very carefully into  whether the provisions of the Convention relating to the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf are  compatible with the effective execution of the object and purpose of UNCLOS or affect the application of the basic  principles embodied therein. We reserve our right to revert to this issue in the appropriate forums. Thank you very  much, Mr President.
35. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. Your explanatory statement will be duly recorded, as will the explanatory  statements of others who have made such statements and of those colleagues who have yet to speak. I would like now to  invite the distinguished delegate of Australia to take the floor.
36. Mr SPYROU (Australia):   Mr President, thank you very much, sir. Australia welcomes with pride the adoption of UNESCO’s first  normative document in many, many years. We would like to congratulate you, Mr Director-General, for your unfailing  support; Mr Lund, Chairperson of the meeting of governmental experts; the Secretariat, in particular Madam Prott; and  the Member States. Having been a strong supporter throughout, and given its consistency with the United Nations
566  Convention on the Law of the Sea, Australia has voted in favour of this Convention. For the record, Australia makes the  following declaration of understanding in relation to the Convention: it is the understanding of Australia that in relation  to Article 2, paragraph 11, the phrase “shall constitute grounds for claiming, contending or disputing any claim to  national sovereignty or jurisdiction” is intended only to be a reference to territorial disputes. Once again,  congratulations. I thank you, sir.
37. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Spyrou. I know that you spent hours and hours working on this Convention during  the year 2000, and even before then. Thank you very much. Distinguished delegate from Uruguay, you have the floor,  sir.
(38.1) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. Uruguay is fully aware, as stated at the beginning of the Convention, of the importance  of protecting and preserving the underwater cultural heritage and that this responsibility and this task undoubtedly rest with  all States. Furthermore, we have no hesitation in fully endorsing any action for the protection of the underwater cultural  heritage, as for any other heritage of humanity. The Convention, we are bound to say, has highly positive aspects in this  respect and in many others.
(38.2) Nevertheless, it is clear that the text does not fully take account of Uruguay’s interests and we are therefore bound  to abstain and to explain our position. First, we believe that this Convention does not adequately safeguard the legitimate  rights of coastal countries in internal waters, in the territorial sea, in archipelagic waters, on the continental shelf and in the  exclusive economic zone. Secondly, the rights set forth in this Convention are not sufficiently compatible with pre-existing  acquired rights. Thank you, Mr President.
39. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. I would now like to invite the distinguished Ambassador of the  Dominican Republic. You have the floor, Madam.
(40) Ms DESPRADEL (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, my delegation comes from part of an island with a rich  historical past linked to maritime trade. This Convention is therefore very important for my delegation, and we would  particularly like to thank the Director-General, his team and all the experts who drew up this Convention with intelligence  and on the basis of concerted efforts. But I should especially like to extend the thanks of the Latin America and the  Caribbean region to the delegation of Argentina which placed at the disposal of GRULAC and the Group of 77 an  exceptional expert, Mr Abel González, to whom we also wish to express our sincere gratitude. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
41. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. I now invite the distinguished Ambassador of Colombia to take the floor, to be followed  by the Ambassador of Haiti. You have the floor, sir.
(42) Mr GALÁN SARMIENTO (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. In keeping with what our delegation said during the discussions on this item  in Commission IV, Colombia would like to reiterate its support for the protection of the underwater cultural heritage.  Nevertheless, various authorities in my country, both within the administration and the oversight bodies, have some  concerns with regard to the articles on national sovereignty, in particular paragraph 3 of Article 7. It was for that reason that  we did not vote in favour of the Convention. Our country reserves the right to sign and ratify the Convention once it has  clarified the aforementioned concerns. Thank you very much, Mr President.
43. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Haiti, you have the floor, sir.
44. M. CHARLES (Haïti) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La convention que nous venons d'adopter par vote est le fait d'un long processus  de réflexion et de négociations. Aucun effort n'a été épargné pour qu'elle soit adoptée par consensus. Malheureusement,  cela n'a pas été le cas. Quand aujourd'hui, j'entends certaines délégations exprimer leurs regrets, expliquer pourquoi  elles ont voté contre, je crains que, par leur tonalité, ces explications de vote, certes légitimes, ne vienne fragiliser le  principe même du vote démocratique. Ce principe veut que la majorité l'emporte, même en l'absence - si regrettable  soit-elle - d'un consensus. En effet, toute recherche d'un consensus impossible risque d'aboutir involontairement - je dis  bien : involontairement - à une sorte de veto imposée par la minorité. Ce n'est pas parce que la convention ne répond  pas dans toutes ses dispositions aux intérêts de tel ou de tel Etat membre de l'UNESCO qu'il faudrait la rejeter. Ce serait  tomber dans le piège d'un tel veto. On le répète assez, nous vivons dans un village planétaire, dans un monde presque  sans frontières, et s'il y a mondialisation, si la démocratie se généralise, chacun doit pouvoir accepter les règles du jeu.  Au demeurant, de nombreuses autres conventions de l'UNESCO ont été adoptées par vote. C'est vrai, il faut le regretter,  mais nous disons aux Etats qui ont voté contre ou qui se sont abstenus que cela ne doit pas les empêcher, dans un avenir  proche ou lointain, de se montrer coopératifs dans l'application de cette convention. Certes, il y aura des situations  conflictuelles, mais ces Etats devront faire preuve d'esprit de coopération, de solidarité, de compréhension à l'égard des  autres Etats membres qui ont voté pour l'adoption de la convention. Par delà les intérêts conflictuels, il y a un devoir de  solidarité internationale à l'égard de la majorité qui a décidé de l'adoption de cette convention. Je vous remercie.
45. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador, for your spirit of encouragement. I now invite the distinguished  representative of Brazil to take the floor, to be followed by the distinguished delegate of Finland. Madam, you have the  floor.
46. Ms ALVAREZ (Brazil):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to explain very briefly the abstention of Brazil. Like other delegations,  Brazil also has reservations in regard to sovereignty, jurisdiction and contradictions with its existing domestic law.  Nevertheless, Brazil accepts the resulting text and our national authorities will discuss it with a view to future  acceptance, since it represents a step further towards the better protection of the underwater cultural heritage. I would  like this to be recorded. Thank you, Mr President.
47. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. It will certainly be recorded. I call Finland. Madam, you have the floor.
48.1 Ms HOLMSTRÖM (Finland):   Thank you, Mr President. Finland voted for the Convention. While recognizing its shortcomings my delegation  could approve of the draft Convention as a whole and we regret that the Convention could not be adopted by consensus  despite the last-minute efforts to that end. Mr President, we are in agreement with the main objectives of the  Convention, its substantive approach and the regulatory regime that it establishes for the protection of the underwater  cultural heritage. In some of its provisions, however, there is admittedly room for clarification and in some others we  would not have had difficulty in adjusting our position with that of those taking a more critical view of the results of the  work of the governmental experts.
48.2 Finland wishes to put on record a few observations. In regard to reporting and notification in the exclusive  economic zone and on the continental shelf, we think that direct reporting to the flag State, rather than to the coastal  State, of a discovery or an activity intended to be directed at the underwater cultural heritage is the best practical way of  dealing with the matter. We recognize that this position is intended to be covered by subparagraph 1(b)(ii) of Article 9  and read it accordingly. In regard to paragraph 2 of Article 10, we indicated our willingness to go along with several  alternative formulations. All of them should have the same bona fide interpretation. The coastal measures referred to  should be objectively justified to prevent interference with the coastal States’ sovereign rights or jurisdiction. Similarly,  the disclaimer in paragraph 11 of Article 2 cannot be read to authorize whatever coastal claims may be presented. In the  preparation of the Convention, my delegation took particular interest in the determination of the status, under the draft  Convention, of sunken State vessels at the bottom of the territorial sea. In our view, measures aimed at their protection,  like the protection of any wrecks in the territorial sea, come within coastal sovereignty. This is now confirmed by  paragraph 3 of Article 7. While my delegation approves the provision as it now stands, we could have seen some of its  elements modified. For us, there was no problem in including more mandatory language concerning reports to flag  States of sunken State vessels and aircraft. We were also willing to include internal maritime waters within the scope of  the provision. That would have been in perfect keeping with the overall goal of international cooperation for the  protection of the underwater cultural heritage. Thank you, Mr President.
49. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much, Madam. I would now like to invite our colleague from Greece to take the floor. You  have the floor, sir.
50.1 Mr RALLIS (Greece):   Thank you, Mr President. Greece, one of the most ecologically rich nations of the world, has a particular  interest in protecting the underwater heritage. It therefore attached great importance to the development of cooperation  and to the legal regime for the protection of the cultural heritage of the oceans. It should be recalled that back in 1971, it  was Greece which proposed the inclusion of archaeological and historical treasures on the seabed and the ocean floor  beyond the limits of national jurisdiction in the list of topics for discussion by the United Nations Seabed Committee  and later on, in 1979, during the negotiations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the  protection of archaeological and historical objects found on the continental shelf in the exclusive economic zone.  Greece participated actively in the UNESCO negotiations and, in a spirit of compromise, sacrificed positions of  importance and accepted, inter alia, the qualified exclusion of the law of salvage and the qualified prohibition of the  commercial exploitation of the underwater cultural heritage. The Convention adopts protective measures for a cultural  heritage found in international waters which would otherwise be unprotected given the limited scope of applications of  the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982.
50.2 However, the jurisdiction clauses are drafted in such a manner that they will not facilitate – and indeed may  even complicate and prevent – their enforcement as far as the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone are  concerned. This lack of precision in jurisdictional clauses is even more problematic in the light of the compromise  provisions, for example on salvage and commercial exploitation of underwater cultural heritage. More specifically,  Greece’s reservations focus on four main points: first, the protection of the underwater cultural heritage found on the  continental shelf within the exclusive economic zone which is based on a system of consultations with all States Parties  that leaves to the coastal State only a coordinating role on its own continental shelf does not ensure its right to be  notified of discoveries of underwater cultural heritage. Second, the introduction of the aforementioned system of  consultations into the protective scheme adopted for the contiguous zone is not as perfect as it should be. Third, the  exclusion of warships and other State vessels from the obligation to report discoveries of underwater cultural heritage  on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone. Greece is also concerned about the requirement in  Article 7, paragraph 3, even in a non-obligatory form, to inform the flag State of identifiable State vessels and aircraft  found within their archipelagic waters and territorial sea. Fourth, Greece has certain reservations with respect to the  accommodation of the interests of the States with a verifiable link, especially a cultural, historical and archaeological  link. Greece has throughout these negotiations stressed the fact that this is a very vague concept which is open to  different interpretations and controversy. Finally, in the light of the above, Greece had to abstain from voting on the text  of the Convention but it does, however, reserve its position for the future. Thank you, Mr President.
51.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished delegate of Greece.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٥١,٢ א א א א א א  .א
(51.2) (Translation from the Arabic) I now invite the Deputy Permanent Delegate of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to take  the floor.
(52) Mr ELGHALI (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. My country’s delegation welcomes the adoption of the Convention, and would like to  express its appreciation of the efforts made by the Director-General and the Assistant Director-General for Culture for  drafting an international legal instrument on protection of the underwater heritage. Likewise, we extend our thanks and  appreciation to the Chairperson of the Committee of Governmental Experts for his great experience, patience and ability in  chairing the meetings. We are a State whose long coasts are replete with this kind of heritage, and we are aware of the  importance of protecting it and the need for such an instrument at the present time, in view of the destruction and looting to  which this heritage is exposed. We also believe that this Convention represents the minimum level of protection to which  we aspire. We appreciate the consensus, and would have hoped to attain full agreement among all States, but unfortunately  some States did not agree with the majority on some of the articles. We respect their positions, which they stated frankly  during the meeting of experts, or during the meetings that followed it. We hope that this position will not be a factor  hindering the implementation of the Convention. Thank you.   :א ٥٣,١  .א
(53.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much.  (The President continues in English)
53.2 The distinguished observer of the United States of America has asked for the floor. The floor is yours, sir.
54. Mr WANNER (Observer for the United States of America):   Thank you, Mr President. We note and take satisfaction in the substantial progress that was made in the  drafting of the Convention. In particular, agreement on the annexed Rules, the preamble and support of non-intrusive  responsible public access to the underwater cultural heritage were substantial achievements. Nonetheless, we regret that  we would not be able to accede to the present text because of objections to several key provisions relating to  jurisdiction, the reporting scheme, warships, and the relationship of the Convention to the United Nations Convention  on the Law of the Sea. We do not believe that the Convention was ripe for adoption: we do believe that, if we had had  more time, a broadly ratifiable text could have been arrived at by consensus. And we hope that there will be a future  opportunity to build on the progress that we did make in regard to the Rules, the preamble, public access and other  provisions. Only a broadly ratifiable text will actually contribute to effective protection of the underwater cultural  heritage. We wish to note for the record that, in our view, as a matter of international law and with particular reference  to Article 311, paragraph 3, of UNCLOS, the Convention’s provisions apply only among parties to it. This is  particularly true of the provisions in the article on jurisdiction, on the continental shelf and the exclusive economic  zone. It is our assumption that other delegations share this understanding. We ask that these views, which I will present  to you in written form, and the views provided in Commission IV, be incorporated into the formal records of this  meeting and of the General Conference. Thank you, sir.
55. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, it will be recorded. As I see no other Member State wishing to take the floor, I would  like to thank you all. Without your cooperative approach we could not have made such progress today. You are well  ahead of the time schedule we had anticipated and this is good news for the interpreters. For all of you it was a fruitful  though difficult day, but thanks to your cooperation it has become very easy and very relaxed. Thank you very much  and have a good evening. The meeting is adjourned.