229    Huitième séance plénière
18 octobre 2001 à 15 h.15  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  Eighth plenary meeting
18 October 2001 at 3.15 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Octava sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I declare open the eighth plenary meeting, at which we will continue  the general policy debate.
1.2 Before we resume the general policy debate, I should like to inform the plenary that this morning, at the second  meeting of the General Committee, the Committee recommended that the General Conference adopt this afternoon the  provisional budget ceiling agreed within the Administrative Commission. The relevant document, which you have  before you, is document 31 C/51. I shall now give the floor to Ambassador Stanton, Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission, for his report. The floor is yours, Sir.
2.1 Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Administrative Commission:   Thank you very much, Sir. I am pleased to present to the Conference the report of the Administrative  Commission on Item 4.2, the adoption of the provisional budget ceiling for 2002-2003. Before presenting the  Administrative Commission’s recommendation to the General Conference with regard to the provisional budget ceiling  for 2002-2003, I would like to share some salient points with this meeting.
2.2 May I recall that the 160th session of the Executive Board invited the Director-General “…to submit to it at its
161st session, a Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 based on the constant dollar rate of 5.70 French francs and
1.45 Swiss francs to one United States dollar”, and further invited him “… to elaborate the Draft Programme and  Budget for 2002-2003 on the basis of the views expressed in the debate”.
2.3 The Director-General then presented document 31 C/5 to the Board at its 161st session, in which he proposed  that the budget for 2002-2003 be maintained at the zero nominal growth level of US $544,367,250 based on the  constant dollar rate of 5.70 French francs or € 0.869 for one United States dollar. The intensive debate in the Finance  and Administrative Commission led to the Board’s proposal to the General Conference of “… a level of the budget  ceiling of US $544,367,250 at an exchange rate of 5.70 French francs or € 0.869 for one United States dollar which  represents zero nominal growth compared with document 30 C/5”; this proposal is contained in document 31 C/6,  Part II.A, paragraph 4.
2.4 At the 162nd session of the Executive Board, the Director-General presented two revisions to document 31 C/5  which modified his original budget estimates for 2002-2003. Document 31 C/5 Rev. deals with statutory requirements  relating to the increase in the post adjustment classification for staff in the Professional category and above at  Headquarters, which necessitates an additional US $10,264,200 under staff costs, and to UNESCO’s contribution to the  new United Nations cost-sharing mechanism for security costs in the field, for which an additional US $770,100 is  required. The Director-General proposes that these increases, totalling US $11,034,300 be absorbed within the zero  nominal growth budget ceiling of US $544,367,250. Secondly, document 31 C/5 Rev.2 concerns additional  requirements of US $3,451,500 for reinforcing security measures at Headquarters, which the Director-General proposes  be added to the budget of US $544,367,250. At its 162nd session, the Executive Board took note of these revisions but  did not amend its proposals in document 31 C/6.
2.5 Mr President, the item on the provisional budget ceiling for 2002-2003 led to a very extensive debate in the  Commission in which 41 Member States took the floor. From the outset, Members expressed appreciation for the efforts  made by the Director-General not only to propose a zero nominal growth budget in document 31 C/5 but also to absorb  therein statutory requirements amounting to US $11,034,300 for the revised Paris post-adjustment classification and  UNESCO’s contribution to the new United Nations cost-sharing mechanism for security costs in the field. They noted  that, in the first instance, this sum would be financed from savings that may arise in staff costs or in other non- programme elements of the budget before having recourse to either Part IV of the budget, that is to say Anticipated Cost  Increases, or to the provisions of the programmes of the Organization and that the Director-General would report  regularly to the Executive Board on the evolution of the situation. Members recognized that such a procedure would  provide the Director-General with the necessary flexibility and found the provision of a negative adjustment in the
231  Appropriation Resolution for 2002-2003 in order to contain the total budget ceiling within the zero nominal growth  budget to be a transparent method of dealing with this matter.
2.6 As regards the additional amount of US $3,451,500 required for reinforcing safety and security measures at  Headquarters, the representative of the Director-General stressed that it was considered unrealistic to foresee absorption  of this additional US $3.5 million within the budget ceiling, bearing in mind that the Director-General had already  proposed to absorb US $11 million for statutory requirements. It was also emphasized that, under the terms of the  Headquarters Agreement, UNESCO was obliged to conform to the laws and regulations of the host country in respect of  safety and security and that a review of UNESCO’s security arrangements, conducted by a private company, had  indicated the number of safety/security staff required in order to comply with French legislation and European practice.
2.7 The majority of Members, however, whilst being sympathetic to the need to reinforce security, were adamant  that zero nominal growth must be respected for the 2002-2003 biennium and that requirements for safety and security  should, as a matter of course, be included under the regular budget. Nevertheless, certain Members emphasized that  zero nominal growth should not be considered a dogma for future biennia. Other Members stressed that, if UNESCO  was to meet its renewed responsibilities and the demands of its Member States, there should be some increase above  zero nominal growth and that the Director-General could not absorb all the additional requirements without affecting  the programmes.
2.8 Various solutions were proposed for financing the US $3.5 million. Some Members felt that absorption would  be possible within the regular budget especially as the Board at its 162nd session was of the view that savings may be  made with respect to the costs of the General Conference and the Executive Board, and that the FABS programme  would heighten efficiency and lead to economies.
2.9 Many Members drew attention to the possibility of using funds carried over from the current biennium.  However, the Commission was informed by the representative of the Director-General that the Secretariat would not be  in a position to provide an estimate of funds that might be available for this purpose until March 2002 and that it would  be risky to assume that there would be a substantial amount. It was noted that previous biennia had witnessed a  maximum surplus of US $35,000 but that the proposed new carry-over arrangement would remove the perverse  incentive to spend at all costs at the end of the biennium.
2.10 The representative of the Director-General proposed that each Member State be required to donate to a Special  Fund an amount based on the scale of assessments. However, the majority of Members felt that a compulsory  contribution by Member States would be equivalent to raising the budget ceiling and that such a procedure was not  acceptable. On the other hand, the establishment of a Special Account to receive voluntary contributions met with  general approval although it was stressed that adequate safety and security should not be dependant on goodwill and  voluntary contributions.
2.11 Mr President, my impression at the end of this very intensive debate was that there was a considerable lack of  enthusiasm for increasing the budget ceiling. Certain Members felt that the additional US $3.5 million for security  should be financed with the regular budget. Others, whilst not necessarily arguing for an increased budget ceiling, were  clearly concerned by the pressure already exerted on the budget by the absorption of the US $11 million for statutory  requirements, considering that it would be very difficult for the Director-General to absorb all additional needs within  the budget ceiling. Thus, the only solution that was broadly acceptable to all was for the Administrative Commission to  propose that the provisional budget ceiling for 2002-2003 be set at the level of US $544,367,250, proposed by the  Executive Board, but that the Director-General be invited to seek voluntary contributions for financing the  US $3.5 million required for safety and security. This recommendation is reflected in document 31 C/51, which is  before you. Thank you, Sir.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency, for your very logically structured report. Does everybody agree with the  resolution proposed in document 31 C/51? As I see no comments or objections I consider it adopted.
3.2 Before moving on to the next part of the agenda I will give the floor to the Director-General, who would like to  make some comments about what we have just heard. Director-General, you have the floor.
4. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Mr President. You have just adopted a resolution inviting me actively to seek voluntary  contributions in order to establish a special account for the reinforcement of security measures at Headquarters. I should  like to make an appeal to you as a first step of my active campaign to obtain voluntary contributions. I will need nearly  US $3.5 million, a sum that must come from Member States. I should therefore like to take advantage of this occasion  to make an urgent appeal to Member States to make voluntary contributions to the special account so that I shall be able
232  to implement the minimum security requirements in accordance both with French legislation and with normal practice  in Europe. Thank you very much.  EXAMEN DES COMMUNICATIONS RELATIVES A LA RECEVABILITE DES PROJETS DE RESOLUTION  TENDANT A L'ADOPTION D'AMENDEMENTS AU PROJET DE PROGRAMME ET DE BUDGET POUR
2002-2003 : RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE  EXAMINATION OF COMMUNICATIONS ON THE ADMISSIBILITY OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS  CONCERNING THE ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
2002-2003: REPORT BY THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  EXAMEN DE LAS COMUNICACIONES RELATIVAS A LA ADMISIBILIDAD DE LOS PROYECTOS DE  RESOLUCIÓN ENCAMINADOS A MODIFICAR EL PROYECTO DE PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA
5. The PRESIDENT:   I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Fernandez Illanes, Chairperson of the Legal Committee, who will  present the report on appeals for admissibility of draft resolutions relating to document 31 C/5. You have the floor, Sir.
6.1 M. FERNANDEZ ILLANES (Chili), Président du Comité juridique :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, permettez- moi de vous donner lecture du Rapport intérimaire du Comité juridique sur l'examen de la recevabilité des projets de  résolution tendant à l'adoption d'amendements au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2002-2003 (31 C/5), qui fait  l'objet du point 4.3 de l'ordre du jour (document 31 C/8/LEG).
6.2 Depuis sa 29e session, la Conférence générale a adopté une procédure nouvelle pour le traitement des projets  de résolution tendant à amender le Projet de programme et de budget.
6.3 La procédure établie prévoit, pour les auteurs des projets de résolution paraissant prima facie irrecevables de  l'avis du Directeur général, la possibilité de demander à la Conférence générale de se prononcer en dernier ressort sur  leur recevabilité. Il revient au Comité juridique d'examiner ces projets de résolution.
6.4 Afin de permettre aux commissions concernées et notamment à la Commission II, chargée de l'examen des  questions concernant l'éducation, d'en être saisie en temps utile, le Comité juridique a examiné en priorité un certain  nombre de projets de résolution, et a recommandé que soient déclarés recevables les projets de résolution suivants :  MS/DR.26, 27, 28 et 29, présentés par la République islamique d'Iran ; MS/DR.73, présenté par l'Afrique du Sud ; et  MS/DR.91, présenté par les Pays-Bas.
6.5 Le Comité juridique a recommandé également que soit déclaré recevable le projet de résolution MS/DR.80,  présenté par la Bolivie, en sa première partie proposant l'adjonction d'un alinéa (iii) au paragraphe 01110 du Projet de  programme et de budget, la seconde partie de ce projet de résolution n'étant pas déclarée irrecevable en dépit des  objections soulevées par plusieurs membres du Comité. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Fernandez Illanes, for your report. Are there any objections? Then, may I consider  that the recommendations of the Legal Committee are endorsed by the Plenary? They are approved.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (SUITE)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (CONTINUED)  DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL (CONTINUACIÓN)  ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ (ПРОДОЛЖЕНИЕ)  א )(א   总政策辩论（续）
8. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Before we continue with our general debate may I remind  distinguished colleagues that, in its meeting this morning, the General Committee approved the suggestions for
233  membership of the drafting group on the C/4 document but, unfortunately, some groups have still not provided a list of  names. These names are needed as we are going to have the first meeting of the drafting group this afternoon at 5 p.m. I  therefore request those groups that have not yet submitted their proposals to do so as soon as possible in order to  facilitate the work of the drafting group at 5 o’clock. It will be convened in Room VIII. I would now like to invite our  first speaker for this afternoon’s session, Her Excellency Ms Fiame Naomi Mata’afa, distinguished Minister of  Education of Samoa., to take the floor. The floor is yours, Madam.
9.1 Ms MATA’AFA (Samoa):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies and colleagues,  I bring you all greetings from the Government and people of Samoa. This General Conference sees the entry of a new  Associate Member, that of the small Pacific island country of Tokelau. As Tokelau’s closest neighbour Samoa warmly  welcomes Tokelau and commends the Government of New Zealand for facilitating the entry of this new Member into  the UNESCO family. Mr President, territories and countries working towards self-government do not normally gain  access to international forums like UNESCO – so we applaud the role of New Zealand in this instance and urge  administering authorities to follow this excellent example – to advance the development of all peoples in our world  community.
9.2 Samoa joins its voice to that of the international community in condemning the terrorist acts of 11 September.  We also share in the call for UNESCO to play its role through the resources at its disposal and in its areas of  competence to counter such forces that advocate and act with hatred and violence. To this end we support the proposal  before the General Conference to allow the Director-General to make the appropriate adjustments in the budget and  programme to enhance UNESCO’s response to this world threat.
9.3 In this plenary debate we are asked to speak to the proposed Medium-Term Strategy and the Programme and  Budget for the next biennium. At the outset, let me indicate Samoa’s general endorsement of the two proposed  documents. Member States have contributed through the regional and sub-regional consultations to the strategic  framework and direction of the Organization. We are satisfied that what was called for from our region of Asia and the  Pacific is reflected in the strategic framework here proposed. In essence, UNESCO should do less and do it better.
9.4 Mr President, I should like to address issues of reform, decentralization and especially UNESCO activity in our  subregion. The reform process in which UNESCO is involved is important for two reasons. First, it is necessary to have  internal policies and practices that make the best use of the human and material resources of our Organization.  Accordingly, the changes to the administration system and the strengthening of professional staffing of cluster offices  are welcome reforms that should enable the Organization to operate more efficiently, especially at the national and  subregional levels.
9.5 Secondly, if UNESCO is to make an effective contribution to the international drive for peace and  development, it has to ensure that it’s programme of work is focused and sustainable. The new Medium-Term Strategy  provides important guidelines for a reformed approach to the planning and implementation of work in this new  millennium and for efforts to counter the continued threats to peace and development as made visible on 11 September.
9.6 The establishment of the five basic principles of concentration, flexibility, excellence, multidisciplinarity and  cooperation for programme work is excellent. UNESCO must limit work priorities, must be able to respond to changing  national and international needs, must pursue outcomes of the highest quality and must work internally and externally in  appropriate partnerships if the Organization’s contributions to peace and development are to be effective and lasting.  This reformed approach will enhance UNESCO’s ethical mandate to protect the diversity of culture, preserve the  supremacy of human rights and promote access for all to the knowledge and skills necessary for living in a complex and  uncertain world.
9.7 It is crucial that this new approach is monitored regularly and the proposed rolling nature of the C/4 strategy is  critical to its success. It will be necessary to evaluate both the implementation process and the outcomes of those  processes. As new national and international challenges arise it may be necessary to make adjustments to programme  focus or to the distribution of resources. Along these lines we seek higher transparency in policy and use of all funding  sources, including Member State contributions, donations, extrabudgetary funds, funds-in-trust, self-benefiting funds  and so forth in meeting our Organization’s objectives.
9.8 My delegation urges UNESCO to continue the process of reform. The Director-General is to be congratulated  for steps taken so far in the administration and programme areas. However, the reform must and should flow from the  governing organs of this body. Our term on the Executive Board, which will terminate at the conclusion of this  Conference has afforded Samoa an opportunity to participate in the reform dialogue and debates. We urge the General  Conference to continue the Executive Board’s mandate to review all aspects of UNESCO’s governance and to make  recommendations to the next General Conference as to the reforms that need to take place. In this respect our reforms
234  have not happened fast enough, nor advanced far enough. Efficiencies in governance can allow more resources for the  programme work.
9.9 Suffice to say, Mr President, do we really need three weeks for the General Conference? Does the Executive  Board need to meet twice a year, each for three weeks’ duration? These are to all intents and purposes mini-General  Conferences.
9.10 There are also issues of equity in the governance of this Organization. My subregion of the Pacific holds only  two seats out of the twelve allocated for the Asia-Pacific region or Group IV on the Executive Board. There are  Member States that are essentially permanent members of the Executive Board and this makes it difficult to facilitate a  process that ensures fair rotation of Member states on the Board. We urge the Organization in its governance reforms to  give serious consideration to ensuring fair distribution of representation in all governing bodies of UNESCO. To that  end, Samoa as well as all delegations from the Pacific endorses Draft Resolution 31 C/4 DR.2 as submitted by Barbados  on this same issue. Mr President, is it not now the time to walk the talk, as the Americans would say?
9.11 Finally, decentralization is the key to the reform of UNESCO. The Programme and Budget for the coming  biennium should follow the principles of the Medium-Term Strategy by reflecting priorities set at regional and  subregional levels and by providing equitable and appropriate resources to deliver on those priorities. The Pacific  subregion is well positioned to take advantage of this strategic approach in that Pacific Ministers of Education, in May  of this year, endorsed a plan of action to deliver on the objectives set at the Dakar Summit.
9.12 All the Pacific Island Member States have in place EFA Forums, and most importantly have completed their  respective national EFA plans. Further to this, in the recent Pacific consultation held in Fiji in August last, the Pacific  National Commissions identified the priorities which should direct the work of the Pacific cluster office in the coming  biennium and the period of the proposed Medium-Term Strategy. The Pacific looks forward to the promised  strengthening of its cluster office through the speedy appointment of an adviser in social science and programme  specialists for informatics and world heritage work. Most importantly, Mr Director-General, the Pacific Member States  welcome the guarantee of the reformed process of decentralization that the excellent and high performing UNESCO  office will continue to be funded directly from Headquarters and not through other regional offices.
9.13 In conclusion, last but in no way least, Mr President, we congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of  this Conference and offer you our sincere wishes for a successful term of office in the stewardship of this house for the  next two years. Thank you.
10.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency.  (The President continues in Arabic)  אא ١٠,٢ ، א א א ، א ، א  .א
(11.1) Ms OMAR (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, representatives of Member States, on behalf of Dr Moufid  Shehab, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Egypt’s delegate to the Organization’s General Conference  and Executive Board, who is not with us today owing to circumstances beyond his control, I should like to begin by  congratulating Mr Ahmad Jalali on his election as President of the General Conference and wishing him every success in  this mission. I am honoured that we are here together at this time to consider and reflect upon the Organization’s future  work in order to meet the new challenges now emerging, and to take part in the work of the various commissions on  document 31 C/4, the Draft Medium-Term Strategy 2002-2007, and document 31 C/5, the Draft Programme and Budget for
(11.2) First of all, I should like to thank the Director-General for his tremendous, concrete work over the past biennium  to reform the structure and administration of the Organization, and his ongoing efforts to rationalize expenditure and ensure  that the Organization’s programmes keep abreast of the continuous changes and developments in today’s world, including  challenges and obstacles which are a genuine threat to humanity. The two draft documents reflect the awareness of the  Secretariat, headed by the Director-General, of UNESCO’s present and future role in the light of the pressing needs, and  demonstrate how UNESCO can contribute to the progress, development and capacity-building of humanity by  implementing the Organization’s programmes. We further support the overall lines of thrust and vision pertaining to the  present and future role of the Organization as outlined by the Director-General in his address to the General Conference.
(11.3) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the great role  the international community expects UNESCO to play as an international organization concerned with culture, thought and  education. Ever since its establishment, it has played a leading role worldwide in numerous educational, scientific and  cultural fields, but we can truly say that while the recent events endured by innocent people in the United States have  placed the burden of confronting those events on the entire international community, UNESCO is the international  organization that is expected to bear the brunt of that burden. The world expects much from UNESCO in view of its  tremendous capabilities and experience, which enable it to help, with great wisdom, to absorb crises and meet challenges.
(11.4) History has shown that civilization, power and wealth are founded upon culture and science. But if we do not put  our efforts into developing culture and science, we will lose our present and our future, our freedom and our hopes. Today  we are discussing the dialogue among civilizations as a new idea which may help us to draw closer to one another, but we  tend to forget that there has been such dialogue for a very long time, and that this is what has enabled us to live together on  the planet Earth until now. No proof of this is needed; rather, we need to remind each other of what history tells us in this  regard. If our ancestors were able to establish dialogue and reciprocal influence among themselves, despite the meagre  means of communication available to them, do we not have far greater opportunities to sustain and develop dialogue among  ourselves, as did our ancestors, and should we not try to achieve far more positive results than they did? While the dialogue  among civilizations undoubtedly helped to ensure that the intellectual and cultural rapprochement between peoples and  their understanding of each other’s mentalities, religions and beliefs constituted an enrichment of human life, the new  challenges have imparted a new role and crucial value to this type of dialogue, which is that of confronting our common  enemy, terrorism. If we were to look for an international forum which might play a pre-eminent and pioneering role in this  respect, we would find only UNESCO, the Organization that has brought us together today, the Organization that  reaffirmed the need to hold this Conference at this time, and did not consider postponing it, despite the fact that a number  of international political, financial and other organizations have postponed their meetings because of security concerns  following the regrettable recent events. None of us, however, can fail to be aware of the significance and import of the  events and their possible consequences, or of the effective, leading role UNESCO could play as the organization that must  take a leading role in addressing such events, and consequently we had no hesitation in deciding to meet to discuss, debate  and confer. This is indicative of our faith in the Organization’s role and constitutes a manifestation of support and backing  for the role expected of it in promoting dialogue, culture and knowledge as the strongest weapons with which to combat  terrorism. The international community expects us to be equal to the responsibility entrusted to us, and through the outcome  of our meetings here, to reaffirm to it that humanity is capable, through dialogue and joint reflection, of mapping out a plan  for peaceful coexistence and of achieving that security and serenity without which efforts to achieve development cannot  succeed. We share the Director-General’s view that UNESCO must play a leading role in combating terrorism, which  threatens us all, and draw his attention to the need for reflection in order to provide effective forms of mutual dialogue at  various levels. By this, we mean a dialogue of cultures and ideas, a dialogue among religions and creeds and among the  advanced and the less advanced peoples. Furthermore, as we stressed in the statement we made on behalf of the Arab group  to the Executive Board at its most recent session, the fundamental purpose of this dialogue is to promote rapprochement  and mutual understanding among peoples in order to arrive at a single common stance vis-à-vis acts of violence and  destruction threatening global peace and security.
(11.5) We must not allow this leading role in opposing terrorism to distract us from the other areas in which UNESCO  plays a prominent role. The Organization must confront another type of danger threatening humanity, namely, the  destruction of the cultural heritage of historical, scientific, religious or doctrinal value, not only to the people of the region  in which it is situated, but to all the peoples of the world. Despite the important role UNESCO plays, we still hear from  time to time of continuing destruction of the cultural heritage and changes to its character. UNESCO played a historic role  in attempting to prohibit the destruction of the Buddhist statues in Afghanistan, but the hand that was ignorant of the  monuments’ value was stronger and speedier, and destroyed part of the heritage of humanity. This strong, tyrannical hand  which is unaware of the value of the heritage is striking and destroying the cultural heritage in occupied Jerusalem. Despite  the moves of the UNESCO Secretariat urging implementation of 30 C/Resolution 28 on safeguarding the cultural and  archaeological heritage of Jerusalem, and the appeal reiterated at every session of the Executive Board over the last two  years, humanity continues to endure the systematic destruction and deliberate alteration of the character of the cultural  heritage in what is for millions of people of various religions and beliefs one of the world’s most important holy cities. On  this occasion, we express our support for the Director-General’s initiative, which he announced in his address to the  General Conference, consisting in the dispatch of a personal envoy to examine the state of the cultural heritage in occupied  Jerusalem in order to revitalize UNESCO’s role in safeguarding a major part of the world cultural heritage which is of great  value to humanity. We hope that this mission will help to safeguard the religious, cultural, historical and demographic  character of the city and preserve the equilibrium of the site as a whole. UNESCO’s silence on repeated crimes against the  cultural heritage would not be pardoned by future generations, but would rightly be seen as collusion with them. UNESCO  must therefore oppose this grave danger threatening the cultural heritage, and we therefore have a duty not to regard  safeguarding the cultural heritage from a political standpoint, but to see it rather from an exclusively cultural point of view.  We refuse to allow that destruction of the cultural heritage should be the price to pay for ideological, religious or political
239  claims. There is no religion, doctrine or rational, enlightened political philosophy which calls for the cultural heritage to be  destroyed. The only excuse for such destruction is lack of awareness or the blind use of force. We regret to say that despite  the scientific and technological progress under way worldwide, instances of destruction of the cultural heritage are on the  increase. In our era, we are witnessing the destruction of heritage that has been preserved by previous generations down the  ages, despite ideological, religious and doctrinal differences. Although they did not have at their disposal all the knowledge  and experience we now have, those generations successfully preserved the cultural heritage worldwide and passed it down  to us as priceless world treasures. Very regrettably, our era is witnessing numerous forms of destruction of the cultural  heritage. UNESCO is the only international organization that is able to build awareness of the importance of the cultural  heritage; indeed, its responsibility in this field is not limited to physical preservation, but also involves developing  understanding and raising awareness of the value of the historical, scientific and cultural heritage among all those who deal  with such heritage and are involved in its preservation and safeguarding. Therefore, on the basis of a proposal by Egypt, the  Organization’s Executive Board decided at its 161st session to request the United Nations General Assembly to declare an  international heritage protection year which might draw attention to, and raise awareness of, the importance of preserving  and safeguarding our common cultural heritage. Similarly, believing in the importance of awareness, Egypt, in cooperation  with UNESCO, is organizing an international conference, to be held next February, to raise the awareness of participants,  especially young people from different countries, of the world heritage and the need to safeguard and preserve it. In  addition to the above, we hope that the General Conference succeeds in proclaiming a world declaration criminalizing acts  which threaten the cultural heritage, and that UNESCO will call for the revision of the international conventions adopted  under its auspices in order to bring them into line with developments in international law and amend them, using  appropriate legal avenues, so as to ensure the effective criminalization of individual acts which impair the cultural heritage.  We also expect UNESCO to play a new, leading role in safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage as an integral part of  the common cultural heritage of humanity. We further hope that the efforts expended to draw up the new draft convention  concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage will be crowned with success, and that at its current session  the General Conference will adopt the convention as an international instrument, thereby filling the gap with respect to the  safeguarding and preservation of this important type of cultural heritage.
(11.6) There is another challenge facing UNESCO, namely, education, an extremely thorny, but fundamental issue. We  shall not make any progress, succeed in any attempts at development, or find paths to rational mutual dialogue without a  sound educational climate. This is a multifaceted issue, but there are nonetheless a number of common basic priorities, the  most important of which is the education of girls, because we will not be able to teach successive generations to be aware  of their role and responsibility if the first educational establishment in a child’s life, the child’s mother, has no access to  knowledge and culture. The real starting point for the training of any generation is the training of the mothers, and this may  not be achieved if knowledge is not imparted to girls – the mothers of tomorrow. Mothers can be schools if they are given  proper training which ensures that ensuing generations are capable of development and dialogue. This is the first brick in  the lofty wall of education. The question of education has many aspects, and priorities differ from one region to another,  but there is nevertheless one priority which is common to us all, namely the importance of continuing to revise and develop  curricula regularly in accordance with human development, since today’s world does not need curricula that are out of step  with modern society and do not prepare the present generation for the society of tomorrow. There is no need of curricula  which encourage violence and hatred among peoples. We want curricula which affirm the value of individuals and their  role in life. We want curricula which provide pupils with an accurate explanation of history so that they may be enlightened  by the values, customs and traditions of their ancestors and are familiar with all civilizations, and do not focus on only one  civilization. We want future-orientated curricula which promote progress, development, cooperation and fair competition in  a spirit of fraternity and love for human beings, rather than sowing the seeds of hatred and violence.
(11.7) UNESCO’s leading role in education goes hand-in-hand with its role in promoting the ethics of science and  information. Therefore, all the Organization’s programmes devoted to the furtherance of science in various fields,  developing communications and the use of technology should take into account the negative effects scientific development  may have in these fields. We are not calling for a halt to the development and application of science in various aspects of  life for fear of negative effects, as this would lead us into a dark age of backwardness, development and innovation being  integral parts of life, but we should guard against any negative effects from the outset by introducing safeguards concerning  the effects of scientific and technological progress. We must also work to draft international regulations or a declaration  setting out ethical guidelines for new scientific discoveries in biology, prevention being better than cure.
(11.8) Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, these are some of our many  responsibilities; it is not possible to review all UNESCO’s roles and missions now or the results we hope it will achieve in  all its fields of activity. Here we are complementing one another and discussing matters on behalf of everyone. Unlike any  other international organization, the fields entrusted to UNESCO are numerous and limitless and this is attributable to its  aims and objectives for human beings, who are fundamental and central to progress, development, peace and security. The  burden is great, the tasks are arduous, and the road is long, but this is the destiny of all of us in the Organization, and the  international community will not forgive us if we fail to perform the tasks entrusted to us. UNESCO is simply an  organizational framework through which to pool all our efforts. We must all accept that without our individual and joint  roles as Member States of this Organization, UNESCO would not be able to perform any of the roles entrusted to it or even  implement a single programme. For the sake of a better future, we must therefore unite our efforts under the umbrella of  UNESCO by working seriously and effectively within its various bodies. By the end of this Conference, we need to have  arrived at effective plans enabling us to educate generations to strive for knowledge, tolerance and mutual understanding.  We must all extend a helping hand to those working in the UNESCO Secretariat under the auspices of its Director-General,  Mr Matsuura, who have sought to supply the mechanisms, implement the programmes, and achieve the best possible results  in order to ensure human survival and progress by providing every individual of the present and future generations with the  appropriate climate and requisite amount of science and culture. I should like to conclude by saying that I have great
240  confidence in our ability to shoulder the responsibilities placed upon us and meet the challenges for the good and well- being of all the peoples of the world. Thank you for your kind attention.   :א ١٢,١ א  ،  .א
(12.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much Ambassador.  (The President continues in English)
12.2 I now call upon His Excellency Mr Milovan Blagojevic, distinguished Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of  Bosnia and Herzegovina. Excellency, the floor is yours.
13.1 Mr BLAGOJEVIC (Bosnia and Herzegovina):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madame Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the distinguished  representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr Ahmad Jalali, on his election as President of the General Conference  of UNESCO. We are convinced that under his able and wise guidance this session will be productive, successful and  even also a poetical one, especially after eight.
13.2 Mr President, during the half century since its foundation, UNESCO has made a significant impact on the  educational, scientific and cultural development of its Member States, as well as on the development of respect for  human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Organization has also promoted international cooperation and has made  great contributions to peace and security in the world. The General Conference of UNESCO is holding its 31st session  at a time of taking stock and measuring the overall results of the last century. The world is going through complex and  deep structural changes, and searching for new ways of communication and cooperation.
13.3 The recent terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, condemned by the entire civilized world, have  shown that terrorism and internationally organized crime pose a more serious threat than ever before. They have also  shown that the world has become a “global village” and that a single event in any one part of the globe may impact  upon the whole community. Furthermore, the entire international community is expected to support urgent joint actions  undertaken against the new evil and, at the same time, to be prepared to cope with a new reality, full of uncertainties  and challenges as well as of hopes and promises. In addition, our planet continues to face other major problems. A  number of regional conflicts exist which have negative effects on educational, scientific and cultural development in  these regions. The gap between the rich and the poor remains as wide as ever. Access to education and health care is not  available to all people. The benefits of modern science and access to cyberspace are not fairly distributed. The  environment is being gravely misused. All these factors make it imperative for us to make further efforts to meet such  challenges. Only by fully assuming individual and collective responsibility in addressing these problems will the six- billion-member-strong family of humankind be able to offer optimal solutions.
13.4 Mr President, peace and democratic change in the world are closely linked to the further development of  science, a culture of dialogue, tolerance and especially education for all – at all levels. It is a continuous process and  calls for new commitments and efforts. Allow me to join with a number of previous speakers in emphasizing the  importance of the educational dimension of UNESCO activities. The crises, problems and challenges of education today  are as serious as ever, and occur in all parts of the world. They demand that we undertake drastic and effective measures  in order to prevent or at least to decrease poverty, exclusion, disease, insecurity and environmental degradation. Until  globalization has become so powerful a force that it cannot be reversed, we have to work collectively to humanize its  impact, to make better use of its advantages and to reduce possible negative consequences. We must continue to  maintain pluralism, cultural diversity and education for all and thereby enable the spirit of solidarity and equal  partnership to prevail throughout the world. If we do not proceed in this way, the future will be far from bright.
13.5 Now, at the beginning of the third millennium, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization has a particularly important role to play in promoting new values, and it continues to be a symbol of the  highest moral and ethical standards as well as a source of intellectual inspiration. An extremely important part of  UNESCO’s tasks has been pursued and carried out under the leadership of its new Director-General, Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura, whose fresh ideas and excellent sense of management have given a new impetus and quality to the work of  the Organization. The reform activities, undertaken and implemented under his leadership at the organizational and  structural level, have made it possible to demonstrate UNESCO’s usefulness and to respond to the expectations of the  international community and to new challenges that have been facing  the Organization. No doubt close cooperation  between the Director-General and the Executive Board and their constant communication with the Member States, as
241  well as the dynamic and inspiring role of the General Conference, are the pre-requisites for ensuring the efficient  performance of the Organization in the future.
13.6 Mr President, UNESCO has played a very significant role in the post-war rehabilitation and reconstruction of  Bosnia and Herzegovina. Even now, within its fields of competence, UNESCO’s role is extremely important in the  overall process of democratisation of the country – particularly in areas of education and the freedom of the media,  which are crucial for creating an environment of mutual respect, dialogue and cooperation. UNESCO’s presence in  Bosnia and Herzegovina has been evident at every stage. Initially, it was through the work of the Commission for the  Preservation of National Monuments, more recently it is through the preparation of an Education for All Programme in  Travnik, the International Commission of Experts for the Old Bridge reconstruction project, the launching of a short  story competition for young Balkan writers under the project ‘Towards a Plural Cultural Identity in a Region of Inter- Community Tension’, and other no less significant projects.
13.7 An outstanding example of the support and presence of UNESCO in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the rebuilding  of the Old Bridge in Mostar, initiated by UNESCO and supported by the World Bank and the European Union. It  represents not merely the undertaking of the actual restoration but also carries important symbolic value through the re- establishment of broken ties and dialogue between the different ethnic groups. Since the implementation of a global  strategy for securing regional balance and diversity in the field of culture is particularly important for our country, we  would like to express the hope that the Old Town of Mostar will be included in the UNESCO World Heritage List.  Finally, I take this opportunity to thank the UNESCO Office in Sarajevo and its staff for all they have done and are still  doing for my country. I express special thanks for the valuable support given to the organization of the ARS AEVI  Museum Centre for Contemporary Art in Sarajevo, which plays a significant role in the process of mitigating  differences between European cultural “centres” and “peripheries”, as well as in affirming the arts and bringing together  the artists of South-Eastern Europe. The following year, the foundation stone of the future modular complex designed  by one of the world’s most outstanding architects, Mr Renzo Piano, was to have been laid in Sarajevo on 24 June. The  ARS AEVI foundation stone is a stone of hope for the Balkans: hope that we may live together, and respect and  appreciate differences as well.
13.8 For all these reasons, we call on UNESCO to maintain its presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It coincides  with the regional approach of our country and its focus on further developing good neighbourly relations and regional  cooperation. We see UNESCO as an important mechanism in the implementation of different national and regional  projects, and consider that, by continuing its presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, UNESCO would be able to reconcile  the varied interests of States and to help the entire region of South-Eastern Europe. However, at the same time, we trust  that the future cooperation and presence of UNESCO in our country will be spread considerably more evenly over the  whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the Organization’s projects will be equally distributed in both  entities, which has not been the case so far.
13.9 In conclusion, I would like, once again, to reaffirm the commitment of the new Bosnia and Herzegovina  authorities to improved cooperation with UNESCO. The basic goals of our Organization and of my country coincide,  and we shall together do our utmost to work for a better future. Thank you for your attention.
14. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I would now call upon His Excellency Dr Mostafa Moïn, Minister of  Science, Research and Technology of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The floor is yours, Sir.
15.1 Mr MOIN (Islamic Republic of Iran) (Speech delivered in Persian; English translation supplied by the  delegation) :   In the name of God the Compassionate, the Merciful. Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, in the  beginning, I would like to express the gratitude of the people and Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to all the  Member States of UNESCO for their election of the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran as the President of  the General Conference.
15.2 The holding of the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO in the present sensitive circumstances  has brought about an historic opportunity to examine the most urgent issues facing mankind today. We should take this  as an opportunity and, with a common good will, try to meet the challenges. Let me introduce some of these challenges.
15.3 The 11 September disaster for humanity in the United States of America and its widespread repercussions have  affected all domains of human and international relations. It was expected that this tragic incident, which has rightly  been condemned by all nations of the world and the world community, would provide an opportunity for the thinkers  and politicians of the world to reflect on this ominous phenomenon and its roots and thus embark upon a fight against  terrorism in all its forms through a concerted and coordinated effort, with the full participation of all the people of the  world under the leadership of the United Nations. But, unfortunately, it is feared that the reactions to this incident may  incite waves of xenophobia that not only fail to result in a solution to this problem, but will make the situation even
242  more complex than it is at present. The emergence of circumstances in which coexistence, dialogue and human security  are threatened, when, instead of relying on justice, tolerance, and law, the language of terror, violence and revenge is  invoked, is a cause for concern for all the people of the world.
15.4 The New York disaster, the ensuing developments in Afghanistan and their coincidence with the increased  repression of the Palestinian people are clear indications of an underlying conflict between the needs of the international  community and the wills and actions of the dominant political system of the world. Great achievements in  communications and science together with huge cultural and social changes have made the international community  move the centres of influence towards proliferation and diversification. However, at the level of international politics,  these transformations have never been considered. In fact, between the realm of international politics and the realities of  the international community a kind of gap or rift has been created.
15.5 The recent incidents indicate that this gap, this lag, cannot continue and now the attention of today’s world  should be focused on its elimination. The most sustainable and rational solution is the alignment and reordering of the  political system of the world. The confrontation of the two theories of the “clash of civilizations” and “dialogue among  civilizations” can be seen from dual and conflicting viewpoints in the world today. At the beginning of the third  millennium, we cannot close our eyes to the promising horizons of coexistence and dialogue among civilizations and  cultures and just gaze at the conflicts between them.
15.6 To prevent violent conflicts within and among nations, and to face social, cultural, ethical, economic, and  environmental challenges and crises will only be possible through constructive and equitable dialogue. President  Khatami’s doctrine on a dialogue among civilizations and the proclamation of this year as the “International Year for  Dialogue among Civilizations” are an opportunity to draw public opinion to a paradigm of dialogue. We can see and  evaluate the capabilities and capacities of different States for dialogue and their interest in and commitment to it. The  year 2001 has provided an important vehicle to introduce and to look afresh at dialogue among civilizations and  cultures. The recent incidents have shown that dialogue among the elite is not enough. Rather, ways should be found for  bringing into the educational system the logic of dialogue, the understanding of various cultures and civilizations of the  world and their values, the understanding of and respect for others, and ways of dealing with prejudice, discrimination,  exclusion and xenophobia, in such a way that education would prepare our children for a world in which cultural  diversity and peace would be the fundamental and prevailing values and principles. The process of globalization, which  goes hand in hand with the shortening of geographical distances and the merging of various cultures, has further  intensified the need for this action.
15.7 Today, more than ever before, it is imperative that we, as the Members of UNESCO, look at our  Organization’s agenda in a multi-disciplinary and comprehensive perspective. If education and culture are not viewed in  interaction with each other, if communications, science and technology are separated from their cultural and social  backgrounds and only satisfy market needs, and if they all remain indifferent to the main goal of the world community,  which is the establishment and spread of stable peace, it is to be feared that, on the one hand, science and technology  will be turned into weapons of terror in the hands of those who have been marginalized by the uncontrolled wave of  globalization, and, on the other, the wielders of power, who regard globalization as a mere tool for the expansion of  their spheres of economic and political influence, will use them to dominate other nations even at the cost of waging  war.
15.8 This point accentuates the importance of UNESCO’s spiritual mission more than ever before. An immediate  and urgent reaction to painful incidents in the world is not sufficient. UNESCO is expected to draw lessons from these  incidents and to examine their roots and causes. By considering the theoretical basis of the problems that threaten peace  and security in the world, it should endeavour to find long-term and preventive solutions to them. From this point of  view, the preservation of UNESCO’s intellectual independence and ethical and spiritual position, and efforts to make it  a global source of intellect and thought are absolutely necessary. In this way, UNESCO will act as a frame of reference  whose decision-making process should not only deploy all the executive capabilities of governments but also the  intellectual power of the free thinkers of all cultures.
15.9 All the nations and civilizations of the earth should have their rightful and active part in the process of  globalization. The rift between the “globalization process” and the “globalizing project” calls for the rational choice of  all nations and the participation of all cultures and civilizations. The “globalization process” entails underlying and  interconnected transformations in all global domains, while the “globalizing project” is nothing but the political will of  those who wish to use the available variables towards implementing their own ideas, gaining profits, and increasing  discrepancies at the level of international relations.
15.10 Creative cultural diversity, enriching the existing cultural heritage of mankind and making peoples adaptable to  each other, are among the basic needs of the world today and UNESCO should be a pioneer in fulfilling this. Paying  attention to the intangible cultural heritage, the equitable distribution of the world natural and cultural sites and the  conclusion of the convention concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage are among the projects that
243  inspire hope and gratitude. These initiatives can be applied to the sectors of science, research and communication. The  development of scientific and cultural networks among universities, under the auspices of UNESCO, can serve as a  good example to this end. The importance of communications in the “globalization” process, and UNESCO’s effective  role in international decision-making on modern information and communication technologies, ensure that more  attention is paid to the new policies and programmes of this Organization. The approval by the General Conference of  UNESCO’s recommendations on public access to information and the advancement of cultural diversity will be  effective practical steps towards the establishment of suitable international regulations, especially in the field of  electronic information. Certainly, the efforts to facilitate equitable access to information and knowledge, especially in  the public domain, to advance freedom of speech, and to strengthen communications capabilities are examples of  appropriate strategies that can help to spread the culture of dialogue in the world. No doubt UNESCO will require  diverse national, regional, and international programmes and measures. I am glad that I can here mention the experience  we had in Iran of holding the first regional forum in this particular field, in the form of the interregional seminar on  Central and Western Asian Countries and the information society, and point out the need to continue to hold such  events regularly in preparation for the 2003 World Summit on the Information Society, and also to help carry out  special study and research programmes.
15.11 UNESCO is a global public forum for reflection, dialogue and discussion concerning the ethical and social  effects and repercussions of old and new scientific and industrial strategies. The achievements in the human genome  project are among the most important scientific developments in the history of mankind. The ability to separate, identify  and combine genes makes it possible for the gene to be used as primary material for research, diagnosis, and treatment  to mankind’s advantage. In this regard, the Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to host the first “International Congress  on the Human Genome and its Connection to Ethics”, that being the most important principle guaranteeing the  preservation of the results of this scientific development.
15.12 In the sciences, while I consider UNESCO’s role in emphasizing the ethical and social aspects of science and  technology quite appropriate and sensible, I believe that this emphasis should in no way overshadow UNESCO’s role in  the creation and dissemination of knowledge. Without scientific development, all-encompassing and sustainable  development is impossible, and where there is no development, talking about its negative consequences would be  inappropriate. I deem it necessary to mention here the special programme of the Islamic Republic of Iran on “Scientific  Development as a Guarantee of Survival in Today’s World” which was implemented last year along with the other  reform projects in our country, and could change the structure of science, research and technology in our State. We  warmly appreciate the cooperation of international organizations and other States. I appreciate UNESCO’s valuable  efforts to carry out the resolutions adopted during the World Conference on Science. I would also like to express my  gratitude to UNESCO for the establishment of UNESCO’s Regional Centre on Urban Water Management in Tehran.
15.13 The role of education as an investment calls for UNESCO to draw inspiration from the Dakar Framework for  Action and to play a pioneering global role in education, especially in basic education. For this purpose, the planning of  activities and the attraction of international financial resources need to be pursued simultaneously by UNESCO and  other United Nations agencies. Otherwise the realization of the Dakar goals and objectives will once again be  postponed, which is unacceptable.
15.14 We too, like the Director-General, believe that UNESCO should not and cannot satisfy all needs. Therefore, as  I mentioned before, the Organization should endeavour through its strategy to coordinate its four programme areas,  namely, education, science, culture, and communication and information and direct them towards a single unified goal.  UNESCO should go forward in an inter-disciplinary, dynamic, flexible, and strategic manner, in such a way that the  General Conference would be able to examine this strategy in the process of its implementation.
15.15 Finally, let us sincerely employ all our power and will in UNESCO to achieve justice, freedom, and equal  rights, to accept responsibility, and to actively participate in global civil life, so that we will be able to build beauty  based on diversity, multiplicity, tolerance, spirituality, and dialogue. We should be able to give scientific, educational,  cultural, and social hope to a disillusioned human being who thinks only of death, and allow ethics and wisdom to  govern his life. We should be able to know and love the other within his or her own specific cultural boundaries. We  should therefore reflect upon knowledge, culture, education and communication. UNESCO is the main focal point of  this action and thought. We can broaden the circle of love and dialogue and close the circle of violence through the  development and nurturing of reason. Religion, ethics and culture are our most important capital for these ends. We  should use these resources in the proper way; we should plan, and we should organize ourselves to this end. Thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Before we continue our debate, I would like again to share with you the  problem I mentioned the day before yesterday, namely, the problem of speaking time. I bring this up in particular  because the distinguished Minister of Iran also exceeded the time limit and I know that he is a medical doctor. Instead  of reminding you again to be careful in observing the time limit, may I repeat the poem I wrote to address this problem.
244  Because nobody listened to me, I have added more lines. So please pay attention to my poem and the new lines I have  added.   How can I wait minutes beyond 8.  My mind is in such a state  That I must just reiterate,  Excellencies, please do not estimate  Your minutes are confined to eight.  Otherwise, I may not hesitate  To abruptly touch your fine debate.  Your speech will really resonate  If kept within the bounds of eight.  How can I let the gates  Remain open after 8?  Or must it be my fate to be forever late?  Regard (doctor) my heart rate  Before you exceed 8.  How can I indicate  “Oh Minister, it is very late”?    In the hope that you will spare my heart rate, may I now invite His Excellency, Mr Denis Feldmeyer, distinguished  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Switzerland, to take the floor.
17.1 M. FELDMEYER (Suisse) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président de vous  féliciter à mon tour, de votre élection à cette haute fonction.
17.2 On sait la consternation qu'ont provoquée dans le monde les attentats terroristes du 11 septembre. Ils  constituent en effet une attaque contre l'humanité tout entière, contre nos valeurs communes et les libertés qui nous sont  chères. Comme tant d'autres, mon Gouvernement a condamné fermement ces actes abjects.
17.3 Dans la situation qui est la nôtre aujourd'hui, la réponse qui s'impose réside dans une coopération internationale  renforcée. A cet égard, il est essentiel que les efforts tendant à rétablir l'universalité de notre Organisation aboutissent.  Pour sa part, il convient que l'UNESCO réaffirme les grands principes contenus dans son Acte constitutif. Ses idéaux de  compréhension et de coopération entre les nations sont plus pertinents que jamais. Son action ne peut s'inscrire que dans  la durée et demande donc humilité et détermination. Les pistes de réflexion dégagées par le Directeur général pour  mettre en oeuvre ces grands principes méritent d'être approfondies. Il s'agit notamment pour notre Organisation de  poursuivre son action visant à promouvoir le dialogue entre civilisations, entre cultures et entre religions, ainsi que la  tolérance.
17.4 A l'évidence, on ne saurait sous-estimer les difficultés qu'il y a à atteindre ceux qui se refusent à tout dialogue.  Pour combattre les préjugés, un rôle crucial revient à l'éducation. Dans la nécessaire réflexion sur les causes du  terrorisme, il conviendrait aussi de chercher à comprendre comment la religion peut être instrumentalisée à des fins qui  lui sont étrangères et d'envisager les moyens de prévenir pareilles dérives. L'examen de cette question, qui nous  interpelle tous, devrait aussi aider à rejeter les amalgames assimilant des groupes fanatiques extrémistes à une culture  ou à une religion, et à éviter que des théories telles que celle dite du "choc des civilisations" ne s'accréditent.
17.5 Pour relever les importants défis - anciens ou nouveaux - auxquels elle se trouve confrontée, l'UNESCO  dispose d'un instrument rénové, grâce à la réforme entreprise depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale. Il lui  revient désormais de faire la preuve de son efficacité accrue dans la mise en oeuvre des nouveaux programmes. Je tiens  à remercier ici le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, qui de concert avec le Conseil exécutif, a conduit ce  processus. Les autorités suisses le soutiennent depuis le début et l'invitent à poursuivre la mise en oeuvre de la réforme.
17.6 Nous approuvons la Stratégie à moyen terme soumise à notre examen et nous nous félicitons qu'elle soit axée  sur un nombre limité d'objectifs et de priorités clairement définis. Dans ce contexte, je voudrais limiter ici mes  observations à quelques grands thèmes.
17.7 La Suisse souscrit entièrement aux objectifs de la Stratégie à moyen terme dans le domaine de l'éducation. Ses  trois objectifs stratégiques ont été au coeur des débats de la 46e session de la Conférence internationale de l'éducation,  qui s'est tenue en septembre dernier; ils sont repris dans les conclusions de la conférence. Le thème choisi pour cette  session - "Apprendre à vivre ensemble " - s'est révélé particulièrement opportun, comme l'a relevé le Directeur général
245  dans son discours du 2 octobre à l'ouverture de la dernière session du Conseil exécutif. L'éducation doit en effet  contribuer à promouvoir des valeurs et façonner des attitudes favorisant l'ouverture, la tolérance et le respect mutuel.
17.8 En ce qui concerne le rôle des instituts de l'UNESCO pour l'éducation, la Suisse attache beaucoup d'importance  à une décentralisation effective de l'Organisation. Pour pouvoir jouer utilement leur rôle, ces instituts doivent être  intellectuellement et fonctionnellement autonomes et disposer de ressources financières suffisantes.
17.9 Monsieur le Président, mon pays se félicite que l'UNESCO ait pris l'initiative d'élaborer une Déclaration sur la  diversité culturelle, qu'il soutient sans réserve. Le texte qui nous est soumis a le mérite de se fonder essentiellement sur  la dimension humaniste de la notion de diversité culturelle et sur le respect des droits de l'homme. La reconnaissance de  la diversité culturelle, ainsi que la nécessité de la préserver et de promouvoir le dialogue interculturel sous toutes ses  formes, arrive à point nommé. Des programmes tels que le projet "Culture de quartier", réseau mondial d'activités  culturelles locales, concrétisent les objectifs de cette Déclaration, qui ouvre la voie à des politiques culturelles  novatrices dans un monde en pleine mutation.
17.10 La Suisse, Etat fédéral, plurilingue et multiculturel, est évidemment très attachée à la notion de diversité  culturelle, qu'elle vit au quotidien. Elle y est très sensible également en tant que pays d'accueil, dont plus de 20 % de la  population est étrangère.
17.11 Monsieur le Président, la Suisse attache une importance primordiale aux programmes de l'UNESCO  concernant les nouvelles technologies de l'information, qui visent notamment à combler la "fracture numérique" entre  pays développés et pays en développement. Ainsi, le projet de centres communautaires multimédias, soutenu par la  Suisse, est un exemple de solution réaliste adaptée aux besoins des pays en développement; il faudrait dépasser le stade  des expériences pilotes et multiplier de tels centres dans le monde.
17.12 Le Sommet mondial sur la société de l'information, que Genève aura l'honneur d'accueillir en 2003, revêt une  signification particulière dans ce contexte. Il importe que l'UNESCO contribue substantiellement à sa préparation, sur le  plan des contenus. Il y a là pour notre Organisation une chance qu'elle ne saurait manquer, d'affirmer ses compétences  dans ce domaine. Les technologies de l'information et de la communication, thème transversal s'il en est, constituent un  formidable défi pour tous les secteurs du programme de l'Organisation. Elles soulignent plus que jamais l'évidente  interdépendance existant entre l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication. Je vous remercie de votre  attention.
(19.1) Mr TOUKAN (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director- General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, peace and the  mercy and blessings of God be upon you. Allow me, first of all, to congratulate Mr Ahmad Jalali on his election as  President of the 31st session of the General Conference, and to wish him every success in guiding its work.
(19.2) Ladies and gentlemen, this session is taking place at a time of major transformations in the world which will have  radical consequences for many aspects of economic, cultural and social life. There will be a greater premium on  UNESCO’s values of peace, tolerance and international understanding in the political life of the world. The human  community must move beyond a negative conception of peace consisting in avoiding war and peace-keeping, to a stage of  positive peace-building, which means giving various peoples what they need to lead a decent life within a framework of  intellectual, cultural and political pluralism, just as building universal peace requires economic, social and cultural  development programmes worldwide. UNESCO has not been adverse to this idea; indeed, its Constitution, which urges the  building of the defences of peace in the minds of men, must be made a tangible reality all over the world. It is also  important to speak of a new concept, namely that of comprehensive affirmative security, since the changes wrought by the  information revolution are giving the notion of security a new meaning, and prompting a re-examination of the concepts of  national authority and state sovereignty, and the linkage between these concepts and the constant changes taking place in  the world practically on a daily basis, and also the diminishing ability of the State to monopolize, suppress or prevent the  dissemination of information, and to keep sources of information from its citizens. Information is now able to cross borders  easily, and the concept of security is linked to that of human rights, given that security has come to lie at the heart of the  rights afforded to individuals by international instruments. Ladies and gentlemen, in pointing out these positive changes, I  should like to stress that some of the things UNESCO has been calling for have now been achieved. The Draft Programme  and Budget for 2002-2003 is a continuation of UNESCO’s efforts to guide these positive changes, and I am happy to  welcome the changes in the Draft Programme and Budget, which I believe reflect the ongoing efforts to construct societies  in which everyone may acquire a sound basis for learning. In this connection, I should like to propose increasing the  amount allocated to basic education for all.
(19.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the Organization’s efforts to reform education from the perspective of continuing  education deserve our thanks and appreciation, particularly following the publication of the report of the International  Commission on Education for the Twenty-First Century, Learning: The Treasure Within. In this field, UNESCO must  strive constantly to encourage and help Member States to build non-formal and adult education systems in order to put into  practice the concept of continuing education, which should parallel formal education and be of similar importance. This  will require the necessary institutes, structures, legislation and resources to be made available. Our support for the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 prompts us to request that Major Programme I.1 “Basic education for all” should  include the holding of regional or national seminars to discuss educational challenges in the twenty-first century, the  assessment of distance teaching methods in order to bring education to those who have been deprived of it, the submission  of a comprehensive new report on the culture of peace and mutual understanding in the working languages of UNESCO,  and the dissemination of plentiful information about cultural pluralism and ways of ensuring its observance in education  programmes.
(19.4) Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that UNESCO’s programmes are concerned with a number of regional issues  prompts me to raise the following two issues: first, increased support for the use of Arabic in various UNESCO activities,  and secondly, continuous monitoring of what is occurring in occupied Jerusalem in order to safeguard its historical and  cultural identity, to halt excavations which violate its sacred religious sites, and to preserve its character and historic  heritage given that it is an occupied city. We value UNESCO’s efforts in this respect. The Government of Jordan has been  working for the preservation of the identity of Jerusalem since it was occupied in 1967 down to the present. In this context,  I should also like to thank UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee for the positive remarks it has made, which should help  to establish the operational plan for Petra in Jordan, which is to supplement the comprehensive strategy UNESCO drew up  for Petra in 1996.
(19.5) Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my thanks and appreciation to UNESCO, represented by its Director- General Mr Koïchiro Matsuura and the Executive Board, for their kindness in establishing the International Centre for  Synchrotron Light for Experimental Sciences and Applications in the Middle East (SESAME) under the auspices of  UNESCO, and for UNESCO’s support for this independent scientific centre, which should be conducive to obtaining  support from Member States and encourage other countries to join this important international project, which is aimed at  using advanced scientific techniques for the purposes of development and peace-building.
(19.6) Finally, I should like to present a couple of the educational achievements of my country, Jordan, which owe their  existence to the vision of His Majesty King Abdullah II: (1) curricula and textbooks have been updated, with the inclusion  of modern concepts, to enable pupils to assimilate the latest concepts and information in order to keep abreast of  developments in science and technology; (2) the Ministry has adopted a project for the computerization of education in  Jordan, harnessing information technology in Jordanian schools, with a view to enhancing and boosting the quality of the  education system, in accordance with the requirements of the age of globalization and information technology, in response  to the challenges thereof, and in order to keep up with the latest developments and techniques. In this connection, I should  like to express thanks for the support provided by the UNESCO offices in Amman, Beirut and Cairo to Jordan’s  information technology programmes.
(19.7) In conclusion, I should like to reiterate my thanks and appreciation for the efforts of the Executive Board, the  Director-General of UNESCO and the various units of the Secretariat at Headquarters and in the field. I also extend thanks  to Ms Jaroslava Moserová, President of the 30th session of the General Conference, for the great efforts she exerted during  her presidency of that session. Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.   :א ٢٠,١ א  ، א ،  .א
(20.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Ambassador, for your gracious statement.  (The President continues in English)
20.2 I would now like to invite His Excellency Dr Louis Galea, Minister of Education and Culture of Malta.  Minister, you have the floor
21.1 Mr GALEA (Malta):   The President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I  believe there are two kinds of looks which the Minister from Malta gets when he leaves for Paris for a UNESCO  Conference. The first kind of look can be interpreted as saying: “there he goes taking time off from the urgent  responsibilities of the moment to regale himself for a few days with the exotic topics beloved of highbrow bureaucrats  and international eggheads”. The other look bespeaks the belief that the Minister is going to the field where the most  crucial battle of the hour is being fought. The hour, moreover, is midnight; because as in the night battle that Newman  famously spoke about, it is by no means altogether clear to the participants themselves what is really happening. Some  of the warriors labour under the illusion that they are fighting for one civilization against another; but the reality is, as  usual, more complex. The issue at stake, I believe, is between the promoters of cross-cultural communication, on the  one hand, and the defenders of intercultural barriers, on the other.
21.2 Caught between these two looks, the Minister cannot help asking himself what degree of true understanding  there might be in each of them. The answer depends on what we actually manage to do here, on the extent to which we  succeed in identifying ourselves with the twofold picture of humanity which peers at us from all the documents which  the Director-General has challenged us with. Throughout those documents there is the persistent surfacing of humanity  in two shapes: the individual human being and the human species in its totality. The first shape is familiar, but changing  historical contexts implies a permanent need to recall the dignity of each and every human being. The second shape is  perhaps less familiar. It has not been the habit in the West over the past few centuries to consider the human species as  such, and not just individual human beings, as the subject of human rights; and it is only recently that we have started to  spell out the implications of the concept, now well established in international law, of the common heritage of  humanity.
21.3 The first of the two great cross-cutting themes which have been proposed to us – the fight against poverty,  especially extreme poverty – can be easily derived from the principle of equal dignity of every human individual. The  second theme – bringing about a global knowledge society – is clearly and closely related to the second shape of  humanity. A necessary condition for the coming about of a worldwide knowledge society is undoubtedly the realization  of the species-being of man.
21.4 This concept is most prominently to the fore in the bioethics programme and especially in the promotion of the  Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights. The most basic principle in this area is that humanity  as a species has a right to the preservation of its integrity just as much as an individual human being has a right to the  preservation of the integrity of his life.
21.5 However, at present there is an even more immediate danger than that of direct assault upon the natural  integrity of the species. It is the threat of the misappropriation of knowledge about it. There is here a strong parallel with  the structure of individual human rights. If one admits a hierarchy among human rights, the most basic of them is surely  the right to life, which is the foundation stone of all human dignity. But the immediate corollary of the right to life is the  right to some property, that is, to the ownership or appropriation or making one’s own of just those kinds of goods as  may be reasonably regarded as extensions of one’s body. Likewise the collective right to existence of humanity as a  species, which underlies the Declaration on the Human Genome, has a corollary: only humanity as a species, is entitled  to manage those resources which cannot be rationally managed by individuals, groups or States but can only be  efficiently managed on behalf of mankind as a whole. In international law these resources have come to be known as  the common or human heritage. The resource which perhaps most evidently belongs to the common heritage is  precisely the knowledge of the human genome and, indeed, all analogous knowledge. That such knowledge cannot  rationally be appropriated by any individual, group or State in any permanent or absolute fashion is the converse of the
249  right acknowledged to every individual of privately owning clothes, tools and housing facilities. It is on this ground –  securing the future integrity of the human species in a human environment – that the various initiatives proposed within  the bioethics programme deserve the fullest support.
21.6 Another less all-important but extremely interesting development of the concept of the human heritage appears  in the proposals put forward for the “Protection of the cultural heritage”. Here the notion of “A crime against the  common heritage of humanity” is introduced in order to characterize the nature of certain acts. The enlargement of the  notion of “Crimes against humanity” to that of “Crimes against the common heritage of humanity” is logically  comprehensible on the basis of the analogy with considering certain “properties” as extensions of the human body. It is  a clear case of the almost spontaneous emergence at the collective or species level of the required complement to the  juridical conceptual structures which were previously developed in terms of individual human rights.
21.7 It is hardly surprising that the concept of the species-being of humanity and its corollary, that of the common  heritage, are assuming great importance in manifold areas of global concern. Nor is it surprising that the intangible  dimension of the heritage is coming to loom perhaps larger than the spatially determined. Although the concept and the  implied system were first put forward by the Government of Malta with reference to the seabed, the model was  conceived from the start as apt for pioneering application in ocean space, but transposable elsewhere.
21.8 The section relating to the oceans in the Programme that has been submitted for consideration illustrates very  well the rule that it is generally to be expected that systems which are first made to work in the oceans will subsequently  prove inimitable on land and elsewhere. I am referring in particular to Integrated Coastal Management as providing  some sort of model for Integral Resource Management in general.
21.9 I am confident that this General Conference of UNESCO will commit itself wholeheartedly to the  implementation of the twin cross-cutting themes of the fight against poverty and the construction of a knowledge  society. Such a commitment will bring about a movement, at least in the educational and scientific areas, towards the  recognition of the complementary but hitherto largely missing facet of individual human rights. This facet consists  essentially of the recognition of the implications of the unity of the human species, such as the common heritage in its  various manifestations. If this happens, then the second group of onlookers to whom I referred at the beginning will  have had their facial expression proven to have been more appropriate than the first. For the time being, I will only  express gratitude and congratulations to you Mr Director-General and to all those who have contributed with you to the  hopeful prospects opened up for us in these days of greater-than-usual anxiety. Thank you, Mr President.
22. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. You also keep very strictly to the time limits. I now invite His Excellency,  Dr Reyes Tamez Guerra, Minister of Public Education of Mexico, to take the floor.
(23.1) Mr TAMEZ GUERRA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):   Good afternoon. In 1998, in this same conference room, at the World Conference on Higher Education convened  by UNESCO, an Israeli student said in his statement that he wished to use the forum simply to embrace his Palestinian  brother, and the two young students hugged each other. I believe that adults have to listen to young people and that they  have a great deal to learn from them.
(23.2) Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: May I congratulate you, Mr Jalali, on your honourable election as leader of  the Discussions at this 31st session of the General Conference. From your seat of honour, you will be able to promote a  genuine dialogue among civilizations. We believe that knowledge and understanding of our neighbours is the basis of a  peace grounded first and foremost in the intellectual and moral solidarity of humankind, as clearly stated in the UNESCO  Constitution. UNESCO must make strenuous efforts in this regard to help create an atmosphere of harmony among nations  that can prevent such deplorable events as those which took place this past September in the United States of America. My  Government, committed to international peace and security, reiterates its most forceful condemnation of terrorism and its  steadfast support for the declarations on that matter by the United Nations Security Council, the Organization of American  States and UNESCO, through its Director-General and the Executive Board.
(23.3) Mexico supports the reform efforts that you have set in train, Mr Director-General, since taking office two years  ago. With your help, UNESCO has begun to acquire a new dynamism that will surely enable the Organization to meet new  challenges successfully. We are pleased that in this process a prominent place has been given to education.
(23.4) Education is the basic factor in development. I would therefore like to reiterate Mexico’s commitment to the  Dakar World Education Forum and, more particularly, to the initiative of the group of the nine high-population developing  countries, the E-9 Group. The Mexican education system currently anticipates an enrolment of more than 30 million pupils,  in education ranging from primary to postgraduate. By its size alone, the system presents a number of problems which, at  the same time, represent opportunities for development. The problems of education in Mexico are very similar to those of  other countries with similar or higher levels of development, and may be summarized as follows: inadequate provision of  facilities, poor educational quality in general, ineffective governmental and academic management, little civil participation,  obsolete pedagogical ideas, inequality of access and educational achievement, and so forth.
(23.5) The end of last year saw the beginning of a new administration. For the first time in 70 years, the country is being  governed by a new political party. We now have clearly in mind the tendencies that we must impart to government  initiatives in this field, using different approaches to address the specific problems relating to each kind and level of  education. In basic education we still do not have universal provision even though just over 90% of children aged 6 to 14  attend school. Here, we need a major effort to deliver relevant educational resources to isolated rural areas and to the  migrant population which still has no educational services. But this major effort must be directed towards equity, because  the most disadvantaged social groups are those with the lowest attention span and achievement levels. We will also be  focusing our attention on the task of providing relevant and targeted educational services to the ethnic groups in our  country. We will be improving our bilingual intercultural education system for the major indigenous groups that make  Mexico a multicultural country and, in addition, we will be developing a model of intercultural education for the population  as a whole.
(23.6) In that connection, I must stress the commitment of my Government to the draft declaration on cultural diversity  to which UNESCO has recently devoted so much painstaking effort. In Mexico, we know that respect for cultural diversity  and the practice of tolerance, dialogue and cooperation are the best guarantees of the achievement of peace both within  national societies and at the international level.
(23.7) In our country, the attendance rate at institutions of higher education is very low, even comparison with other  countries at a similar level of development. Accordingly, our main effort is directed towards increasing levels of  educational provision with greater equity, and boosting the retention rate and the number of graduates, without, of course,  neglecting the quality and relevance of education provided in our establishments at that level. Because quality is closely  linked to social equality, we must ensure that our education is of good quality for all. We know that it is not fair to provide  unequal quality of education to different social groups and we recognize that, at present, indigenous, rural and marginal  urban groups have lower educational indicators in all areas and also receive lower-quality educational services. We must  correct this if we wish schools to bridge the gaps that divide Mexicans rather than reproducing and broadening social  inequalities.
(23.8) To the foregoing problems we must add the challenges facing the education system as a result of factors external  to the educational process itself, such as demographic growth, factors related to the phenomena arising from globalization,  which affect the economic, social, cultural and political structures of every country in the world, and factors related to the  use of new technologies in education and to the demands of what has been called the knowledge society. If I were to  summarize our general policies in a single formula, I would say that, in the Mexico of today, the Government of the  Republic intends to build an education system in which equity goes hand in hand with quality, quality with evaluation,  evaluation with accountability and accountability with social participation. To accomplish our objectives in the short and  medium term, we shall be making a major effort to increase the resources that our country allocates to education, raising  the national education budget from the current 6.1% of Gross Domestic Product to 8% in 2006.
(23.9) Ladies and gentlemen: every time the problems of contemporary society give rise to a crisis or the contradictions  become more acute and social cohesion declines, thinkers and leaders focus on education, counting on it to help construct a  more agreeable future, to help shape better men and women for the years to come. For that reason, a Mexican philosopher  and educational researcher, Dr Pablo Latapí, recently recognized in Geneva by UNESCO, rightly once said that the  Ministry of Education should be called, by virtue of the social mission entrusted in it, the Ministry of the Future, because  working for education means working for the future. I believe that you would agree with me on this point, especially in  difficult times like those the world is living through today. Thank you very much.
24.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٢٤,٢ א א א א א א ، א א א .א  .א
(25.1) Mr AL SHARHAN (United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God the Compassionate, the Merciful. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads of delegations, ladies and  gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. I should like to begin my speech by congratulating  Mr Ahmad Jalali on his election as President of the 31st session of UNESCO’s General Conference and wishing him every  success. I should also like to express the appreciation of the United Arab Emirates delegation for the great efforts made by  the Chairperson and Members of the Executive Board, as well as the Director-General and his colleagues, in drafting the  General Conference documents so clearly and concisely, including the proposed themes of the new strategy, thus providing  a sound basis for positive, effective debate, which we hope will help to achieve the desired objectives of UNESCO’s  programme. I should also like to express the determination of the United Arab Emirates to support the activities of this  international organization, which is a laboratory of ideas and a body which underpins national capacities in the educational  and cultural fields and spurs international cooperation with a view to achieving knowledge societies; it also reflects the  magnitude of the challenges that must be met if the world is to become a haven of peace and security for the whole of  humanity. In this connection, I should like to express our appreciation of the Director-General’s efforts to reform the  Organization and prepare it to perform its noble mission.
(25.2) Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of my country, I take this opportunity to thank President Jacques Chirac for  his important address on the opening day of the General Conference, which came at an opportune moment. We share his  views of principle and his ethical positions, which are a source of strength for us, as well as the wisdom we have come to  associate with him. Indeed, he expressed all our preoccupations, all our thoughts and hopes, all our worries, everything we  wanted to say and express. Thank you, Mr President.
(25.3) In the difficult circumstances the world is now experiencing, and in the light of successive events which have all  but shattered peace and security in the world, all the forces for good and peace must unite in order to devise a global  framework for mutual understanding between different cultures and civilizations which recalls common human values and  ideals so as to meet challenges and lay the foundations for constructing the defences of peace in the minds of men. From  this international rostrum, on the basis of the lofty principles reiterated by His Royal Highness Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al  Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates, and in the name of all the elevated values that make human life meaningful  and noble, the delegation of the United Arab Emirates once again condemns the terrorist attacks on the United States of  America, which terrorized and killed civilians and turned the whole world into a theatre of war. While we utterly condemn  these operations and wholeheartedly support all the efforts undertaken to root out terrorism of every kind which targets  innocent people, we do not approve of malicious, racist attacks on Arabs and Muslims and reject premature judgements,  because terrorism has never been an exclusively Arab or Muslim phenomenon. Arabs and Muslims have suffered more  than anyone else from terrorism and extremism. Throughout history, Islam has called for respect and equal rights for others,  and it anticipated all international instruments by hundreds of years in its proclamation of brotherhood. It is the religion that  is based on dialogue, evidence and proof by means of courteous disputation and the presentation of ideals and good  examples. It is the religion that has fortified dialogue among civilizations and repudiated conflict between them.
(25.4) If, whatever our race or language, we were all agreed about the need to achieve world peace, we would ensure  that world peace was an indivisible whole, and that the right to live in security was not to be the monopoly of one people  over another. In this connection, I am bound to place on the record at this General Conference our unqualified rejection and  condemnation of Israel’s practices in the occupied Arab territories, its contempt for the international community, and its  defiance of United Nations resolutions, particularly concerning the holy city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the city of peace, has  been occupied since 1967, was placed on the World Heritage List in 1982, and on the List of World Heritage in Danger.  The danger we feared is now before us, as is confirmed by the reports recently submitted to UNESCO. We therefore urge  the Director-General to move rapidly and to exert all possible efforts to safeguard this item of the human heritage, which is  so dear to all, as required by the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, and the  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.
(25.5) Ladies and gentlemen, occupation is the highest degree of terrorism. We therefore stress that ending the Israeli  occupation of the Palestinian territories, enabling the Palestinian people to exercise its right to self-determination,  establishing an independent state, and the return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland after their expulsion from it and  living in camps for over half a century, in implementation of United Nations resolutions and international conventions, will  all, without any doubt, help to strengthen peace and security in the Middle East and bring to an end one of the most  dangerous flashpoints. Is half a century of death and destruction in the region not enough for the world? In this connection,  I should like to thank the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for the principled, noble stance he has taken on Jerusalem and the  Palestinian question in general. I also congratulate him on his courageous initiative, the first in UNESCO’s history, to draw  up a comprehensive plan for the restoration and safeguarding of Jerusalem, the city of peace.
(25.6) If combating and uprooting terrorism is now the world’s foremost concern, this leads us to debate the formula  proposed in UNESCO’s draft Medium-Term Strategy submitted to the General Conference: “UNESCO contributing to  peace and human development in an era of globalization”. Ladies and gentlemen, how can our Organization perform the  tasks entrusted to it and its humanitarian mission of laying the foundations for peace and justice in the world at a time when  globalization, which seeks to encroach upon human cultures, has become dominant, and Western civilization is being put  forward as a single civilization for the whole world? How can we meet the great challenge of this new ideology, which is  seeking to contain all regional systems and marginalize cultural specificity and diversity in the world? It is now the duty of  UNESCO to make this issue its top priority and devote the major part of its programmes to promoting intercultural  dialogue and safeguarding languages in order to combat this phenomenon. This will only be feasible by eradicating poverty,  exclusion and inequality, respecting cultural diversity, fostering dialogue, the free circulation of ideas and general access to  information, and guaranteeing access to modern technology in order to build a knowledge society.
(25.7) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to call upon UNESCO to go ahead and  implement this ambitious strategy in order to achieve the desired objectives, it is extremely important for us to work to  guarantee the success of this mission by continuing to reform the Organization’s administration in order to make it more  efficient and better able to shoulder the burden of its global mission. In this connection, we should like to express our full  satisfaction with the measures being taken for this purpose, such as the Administration’s observance of the principles laid  down by the Executive Board with regard to the decentralization policy, observance of the criteria of competence,  achieving geographical balance, and in-service training. There is little doubt that this too will be a fundamental factor in the  implementation of the programmes and projects contained in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003.
(25.8) In this connection, I should like to express the United Arab Emirates delegation’s satisfaction with the  Secretariat’s approach to preparing the Draft Programme and Budget, which concentrates on a few major priorities, is  transdisciplinary, and devotes a separate major programme to the social and human sciences, given that that field involves  concepts and methodologies which help to link theory and practice, especially with regard to policies on social  transformations, strengthening human rights, and the ethics of science and technology. I should also like to stress the need  to heed the proposals of the Executive Board regarding the Draft Programme and Budget.
(25.9) Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, now more than ever, the world needs all the  forces of good to work together to achieve the peace and progress humanity is seeking. If we want a world without conflict  or war, if we trust in humanity’s ability to do the impossible, if peace is what we seek and development our means, the time  has come for us to triumph over all the forces of evil and oppression, condemn all the agents of disunion and division, and  usher in for humanity a kind of peace which may lead to development and a kind of development which is conducive to  peace. I pray God that our hopes may be realized. Thank you. I wish you every success. Peace and the mercy and blessings  of God be upon you.
26. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much Excellency. Before I call the next speaker, I must remind you that we are much behind  time. There is a clock just to the left of you, please watch it. I now invite His Excellency Archibald Lesao Lehohla,  distinguished Minister of Education of Lesotho. Sir, you have the floor.
27.1 Mr LEHOHLA (Lesotho):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Honourable Ministers of Education, Members of the Executive Board,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is, indeed, a great pleasure for me to have been afforded the  opportunity to make my presentation to this august Conference. Mr President, allow me like other speakers, to begin by  congratulating you on your election as President. You have in the past couple of days proved that the Conference made  a good choice. I wish you success in discharging your duties in the remaining meetings of this Conference.
27.2 I further wish to congratulate UNESCO on its determination to go ahead with this Conference despite the  recent tragedy of 11 September and the conflicts that have followed. Several international conferences have either been  cancelled or postponed because of these events. But UNESCO, under the excellent guidance of its Director-General,  decided to continue and it deserves to be congratulated for this bold move. My delegation further appreciates the  Director-General’s  initiative in effecting changes that are intended to enhance the performance of UNESCO in general.
27.3 The Lesotho delegation welcomes UNESCO’s objective of working for peace. We believe that lasting peace  can be attained through justice, dialogue, tolerance, negotiation and mutual understanding. We, therefore, humbly  appeal to all nations of the world to resort to these principles. Mr. President, UNESCO’s objectives can be fully realized  in an atmosphere of peace and stability.
27.4 Mr. President, we fully support UNESCO’s objectives in regard to education for all and poverty eradication. At  the beginning of the year 2000, Lesotho embarked on a bold programme aimed at introducing Free Primary Education  (FPE), which has been implemented progressively in order to minimize the logistical as well as budgetary problems of  implementation. By the year 2006, primary education will be completely free in Lesotho. On behalf of the Government  and people of Lesotho, I wish to register our appreciation of the support given to this programme by all our  development partners, UNESCO included. The introduction of free primary education was a necessary move to meet  our collective international obligation of providing a long overdue service to the children of Lesotho, namely, their right
256  of access to primary education. However, the success of free primary education in Lesotho will to a large extent depend  on Lesotho’s ability to address problems brought about by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. For this reason, UNESCO’s  proposed assistance in assessing the impact of HIV/AIDS on the programme will be vital for the development of  adequate response mechanisms to this monstrous disease, which is taking its toll on all aspects of development.
27.5 As a follow-up to the Dakar commitment, and in line with Major Programme I, on basic education for all,  Lesotho has to address the serious concerns of quality, which are likely to be affected by large enrolments resulting  from the introduction of free primary education. Among other things, we need in-service training for teachers and  training for paraprofessionals, and we have to develop appropriate and relevant programmes to meet the needs of  learners of different age groups with differing educational needs. To meet these challenges adequately, Lesotho will  undoubtedly continue to require the support of all her partners in education.
27.6 Mr. President, early in the year 2002, Lesotho will hold general elections organized by the Independent  Electoral Commission and the Interim Political Authority, whose specific mandate is to level the ground for a free and  fair election. Our past experience, including the political disturbances which followed the 1998 general elections, has  clearly demonstrated the need to leave no stone unturned in preparing for a free and fair election, an election after which  no loser will cry “foul”. To this end, for the first time, Lesotho will use a new system of voting, which is a combination  of the first-past-the-post system and proportional representation. The presence of all friends and partners of Lesotho,  such as the United Nations family, the Commonwealth and other observers in that election will be vital and welcome.
27.7 At this juncture, Lesotho also wishes to commend UNESCO for continuing to support the promotion of human  rights, peace and democratic principles, which have been identified as priorities in Major Programme III, Social and  Human Sciences. These principles are vital to the nurturing of the world’s fledgling democracies, of which ours is one,  and a pre-requisite for sustainable socio-economic development.
27.8 Mr President, Lesotho fully supports the identification of “Poverty Eradication, especially extreme poverty” as  one of the cross-cutting themes in document 31 C/5. The eradication of poverty is also a high priority for the  Government of Lesotho. This priority is clearly spelled out in the country’s development plans. Lesotho is currently  facing a challenge of creating employment for thousands of Basotho men retrenched from the mines of South Africa.  The greatest challenge is to make sure that the real benefits of Lesotho’s socio-economic development filter down to  every man, woman and youth of Lesotho so that, eventually, an equitable distribution of resources is achieved. It is  therefore desirable to start projects for these retrenched men, but also for Basotho women, who have always been heads  of households.
27.9 Mr President, Lesotho also associates herself with the importance accorded to the contribution of information  and communication technologies in the development of education in document 31 C/5 under Major Programme V.  Currently, Lesotho is engaged in formulating strategies aimed at promoting the use of information technology for  teaching. This necessitates the procurement of equipment for these technologies for schools and equipping teachers with  the skills they need to use ICTs for research and teaching.
27.10 Similarly, Lesotho appreciates the choice of the project “Empowering the under-privileged through the use of  information and communication technologies” under the same programme because it will assist in bridging the  technological divide between the developed and the least developed countries of the world and between the accessible  and inaccessible areas within countries. Because of our country’s terrain, some areas still have no access whatsoever to  information and communication technologies now operating in other parts of the world. The establishment of multi- media centres in one or two such areas might go a long way towards reducing exclusion and securing the participation  of a larger number of people, including women, in the democratic processes of their country. It would also enhance  local government, decentralization and the effective provision of services, including access to the internet-based  knowledge resources by the under-privileged rural population, thus empowering them.
27.11 There is a great need for UNESCO to strengthen and provide technical assistance to Member States in order to  develop a master-plan for physical education policy. This is in accordance with the recommendation adopted by  Commission II at MINEPS III, the Third International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for  Physical Education and Sport held in Uruguay. In this regard, Lesotho would welcome an advisory mission from the  Secretariat since UNESCO is the focal point for physical education and sport in the United Nations system. During the  next biennium it could assist in the implementation of this initiative, which is crucial for the educational and physical  development of the country. We would like to thank the Director-General in advance for his response to this request, for  which follow-up would be greatly appreciated.
27.12 Mr President, we appreciate UNESCO’s initiative aimed at involving young people in the affairs of their  countries. In my country, we have reduced the age at which they qualify for voting from 21 to 18 years and have set up  a Department of Youth Affairs to cater for their needs and aspirations. In conclusion, Mr President, I wish UNESCO  success in its endeavour to achieve all its noble ideals. I thank you for your attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Tonino Picula, Minister of Foreign  Affairs of Croatia. The floor is yours, sir.
29.1 Mr PICULA(Croatia):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting at this General Conference to review the results of the last biennial programme  and to set guidelines for the next biennial and mid-term periods at a particularly sensitive and decisive moment of  history. Following the 11 September terrorist attack on the United States, we are witnessing a unique and unanimous  response of an overwhelming majority of the international community. The global fight against the scourge of  international terrorism is not a struggle between civilizations and cultures. It is a struggle for elementary human rights,  the rule of law and peace in the world. It is based on the values of multiculturalism, respect for human life and dignity,  and interethnic and intercultural tolerance. I am sure that you share my conviction that the new unity of the international  community must be translated, through our common effort, into new achievements in the promotion of human rights,  international peace, stability, security and overall social and economic development. I am confident that our  Organization will, within its fields of competence, offer appropriate answers to the present challenges and, with  renewed confidence and vitality, lead our common efforts at the beginning of the new millennium.
29.2 It is our strong belief that the disregard and harming of the culture and values of others is an aggression against  humanity. That is why we deeply regret the destruction of historical and cultural treasures and heritage anywhere in the  world, as was recently the case in Afghanistan where the unique Buddhist sculptures in Bamiyan were destroyed. That  was an irreparable loss for humanity as a whole. We ourselves know that all too well, since Croatia has suffered, during  the recent conflict, the bombing of many towns, monuments and infrastructures. It is ten years since the first attack  against Dubrovnik, and against the Šibenik Cathedral, both of which are treasures included on the UNESCO World  Heritage List. I should point out that we are greatly encouraged by the initial contacts with the new Government of the  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia concerning the issue of restitution of cultural and art treasures to Croatia. We hope that  these negotiations will result as soon as possible in the safe and complete return of Croatian historical and art treasures  plundered during the previous conflicts, which would give a constructive impetus to the whole process of normalization  of mutual relations between our two neighbouring states. Let me, at this point, also emphasize Croatia’s strong support  for the activities of the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of  Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation. Let me stress our conviction that UNESCO should continue to  be guided primarily by its original mandate: to contribute to peace and security by promoting cooperation among the  nations through education, science, culture and communication. UNESCO should do its utmost to assert itself as a  meeting place and forum for dialogue between representatives of different cultures and civilisations, in order to help to  forge an even better mutual understanding and confidence among the peoples of the world. By focusing on its mandate,  UNESCO will fulfil the pre-condition for its own and our own success. That is a difficult task, which is the  responsibility not only of the Secretariat of UNESCO but of all its Member States.
29.3 UNESCO should be streamlined, and geared to the major programme priorities. Moreover, the use of the funds  available to the Organization should be focused on the programmes themselves, and used in a more efficient way. At  the dawn of the twenty-first century, it is essential for the Organization to remain open to new ideas and to constantly  reform itself, in line with the best international practices. In doing so, it can provide value for money and continue to  enjoy the confidence of Member States and of extrabudgetary funding agencies. Croatia welcomes the decentralization  of the Organization, which we perceive as a means of bringing UNESCO’s action closer to the country level, of  aligning its programmes and activities with the genuine needs of individual states, while at the same time improving its  efficiency and visibility. The new decentralization strategy keeps pace with today’s issues, which cut across the  boundaries of traditional disciplines and call for the application of comprehensive interdisciplinary and intersectoral  approaches.
29.4 As a result of globalization, today more than ever the Organization is called upon to reinforce the right to  education, to strengthen international scientific and intellectual cooperation, to protect the cultural heritage, to promote  media development and to broaden access to information and knowledge in the public domain. These tasks are essential  for creating knowledge societies that aim to achieve the greatest possible equity and social justice to ensure overall  development.
29.5 Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is today undergoing difficult and complex – but necessary – social, economic,  and political reforms. In carrying out these reforms, the Croatian Government strongly adheres to the values of  democracy, human and minority rights, and the rule of law. At the same time, Croatia is making its full contribution to  the stabilisation of relations in our region of Europe, and we are contributing, within our possibilities, to the promotion  of peace, understanding and cooperation in the world. It is in this spirit that Croatia is conducting its activities within  the United Nations system, especially within ECOSOC. And it is along these lines that we shall work in the United  Nations Human Rights Commission. That is also our platform for Croatia’s activities within UNESCO. We have
258  recognized that knowledge is a principal force for social transformation. In the years to come, our major challenge will  be to ensure not only the free flow of knowledge, but also to build capacity and skills in terms of management, expertise  and best practices. In this respect, we look also to UNESCO, which is both a global intellectual forum and a specialized  agency.
29.6 I wish to conclude by saying that UNESCO has a comprehensive mandate under which it can develop a vast  store of know-how, and bring particular strengths to bear in all its fields of competence. Focusing on its strengths will  further consolidate UNESCO, and bring efficiency and visibility to its invaluable activities. Thank you.
30. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Minister, you have saved us half a minute. I now call upon His Excellency Mr Prosper  Mpawenayo, distinguished Minister of Education of Burundi. Excellency, you have the floor.
31.1 M. MPAWENAYO (Burundi) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames, Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Mesdemoiselles, Messieurs  les Délégués, au nom du Burundi, notre délégation et moi-même souhaitons nous joindre aux précédents orateurs pour  féliciter chaleureusement le Président pour son élection. La 31e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO se  tient dans un contexte particulier où la paix dans le monde est de plus en plus fragile et où elle subit les assauts de  l'intolérance et de l'intégrisme. Le genre humain est menacé par l'homme lui-même. L'irrationnel et l'inconscient  collectif gagnent de plus en plus de terrain au détriment d'un dialogue franc, essentiel à l'édification d'une culture de  convivialité entre les peuples et les civilisations. De par les événements sanglants qui secouent diverses régions du  monde, la situation actuelle porte en germe de multiples dangers pour la paix et la stabilité. Tous les être humains épris  de liberté et de justice sont interpellés, car l'heure impose de mener une action vigoureuse et soutenue afin de lutter  contre l'intolérance, l'exclusion, l'intégrisme, qui sont autant de sources de violence.
31.2 Pour mon pays le Burundi, la paix n'est toujours pas encore un fait acquis mais le processus de retour à une  paix durable vient de faire des pas importants. En cette occasion solennelle et du haut de cette tribune de la paix, nous  appelons de tous nos vœux à la fin des violences et à la conclusion d'un cessez-le-feu entre les parties au conflit  burundais.
31.3 Contrairement à ce que d'aucuns pensent, la paix n'est pas "l'absence de guerre". La conquête de la paix passe  par un combat d'avant-garde contre l'analphabétisme, l'ignorance et la pauvreté.
31.4 La Stratégie à moyen terme de l'UNESCO, dont le principal objectif est de contribuer à la paix et au  développement humain à l'ère de la mondialisation, par l'éducation, la science, la culture et la communication, constitue  un véritable défi à la fois pour les Etats membres et pour l'UNESCO. L'intégration dans la Stratégie à moyen terme et  dans le Projet de programme et de budget des deux thèmes transversaux, à savoir "L'élimination de la pauvreté, en  particulier de l'extrême pauvreté" et "La contribution des technologies de l'information et de la communication au  développement de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et à la construction de la société du savoir", répond  spécialement aux attentes des pays les moins avancés et de ceux en développement. Cependant, les activités de  programme devraient garder un lien conceptuel et opérationnel avec les deux thèmes afin que des actions concrètes  soient mises en œuvre et qu'une évaluation ultérieure puisse être faite. En effet, nous sommes convaincus que le partage  des connaissances et des ressources est indispensable à l'édification de la paix dans le monde. L'annulation de la dette  des pays pauvres est un devoir moral des pays riches engagés dans la promotion d'une culture de la non-violence et de  la paix. En effet, la faim, la maladie et l'ignorance sont des formes de violence.
31.5 Nous nous réjouissons de la synergie entre la Stratégie à moyen terme et le Projet de programme et de budget  où l'approche interdisciplinaire, la créativité et l'innovation sont privilégiées pour faire de l'UNESCO un laboratoire  d'idées, un organisme de coopération intellectuelle et de développement des capacités, un centre d'échange  d'informations.
31.6 Mesdames, Messieurs, pour en revenir au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2002-2003, il importe de  souligner le rôle majeur qu'il appartient à l'UNESCO de jouer pour traduire dans les faits les grandes orientations  énoncées dans la Stratégie à moyen terme. Pour le secteur de l'éducation, permettez-moi de rappeler le rôle primordial  de l'éducation dans la vie de nos peuples, en particulier l'éducation de base pour tous, objectif de la Conférence de  Jomtien et du Forum de Dakar, dont mon pays a fait une priorité dans le cadre de la politique sectorielle en matière  d'éducation. Ainsi, depuis ces trois dernières années et en dépit de la situation difficile que connaît le Burundi,  d'importantes réformes ont été opérées dans le domaine de l'éducation. Afin de garantir l'accès de tous à l'éducation,  particulièrement des plus démunis, une politique de solidarité nationale vient d'être lancée par la mise en place du cadre  juridique et des structures de gestion d'une assistance spéciale qui devrait permettre d'assurer une scolarisation normale  aux jeunes élèves sans ressources, principalement les enfants en situation d'extrême pauvreté, les enfants rapatriés en  situation d'assistance et les nombreux orphelins de guerre sans tuteur. Nous espérons recevoir de grands soutiens de la
259  part de l'UNESCO et des pays qui parrainent l'action en faveur de l'éducation pour tous de manière à pouvoir atteindre  l'objectif de la scolarisation universelle à l'horizon 2010 au Burundi.
31.7 Nous approuvons l'ensemble des stratégies et actions prévues dans le cadre du suivi du Forum de Dakar, plus  particulièrement le volet sur la lutte contre la pandémie du VIH/sida, et apprécions la contribution de l'UNESCO au  Plan stratégique d'action du système des Nations Unies concernant le VIH/sida, en accordant une attention spéciale à  l'Afrique, continent le plus touché par la pandémie.
31.8 L'enseignement supérieur retient également notre attention et nous entendons revoir en profondeur  l'organisation des enseignements, leurs finalités et leurs méthodes, veiller au renforcement quantitatif et qualitatif de la  formation des formateurs et nous doter d'une approche nouvelle et pragmatique pour aborder les aspects sociaux de la  condition des étudiants et des personnels des établissements d'enseignement supérieur. Nous comptons aussi beaucoup  sur l'appui de l'UNESCO et d'autres institutions du système des Nations Unies pour la mise en œuvre d'un programme  spécial de renforcement des capacités de l'Université du Burundi et d'appui à l'Ecole normale supérieure, ainsi que pour  l'ensemble de la politique sectorielle concernant l'enseignement supérieur et universitaire au Burundi.
31.9 Dans le contexte des guerres et conflits qui secouent certaines régions du monde, le rôle de l'éducation est aussi  celui de véhiculer les valeurs universelles  : culture de la paix, droits de l'homme, démocratie, tolérance, non-violence.  La mission de l'UNESCO qui consiste à promouvoir de telles valeurs à travers l'éducation nous paraît indispensable et  digne d'être renforcée. Je saisis ici l'occasion pour remercier l'UNESCO d'avoir facilité la création à l'Université du  Burundi d'une Chaire UNESCO  en éducation à la paix et à la résolution pacifique des conflits et pour avoir mis à notre  disposition une contribution financière, au titre du Programme de participation, pour l'organisation d'une Conférence  internationale pour une dynamique de paix et de réconciliation nationale au Burundi, conférence qui va avoir lieu  bientôt à Bujumbura. L'éducation et la formation des filles constituent aussi un enjeu important pour mon pays, comme  pour d'autres pays en développement, particulièrement africains et sont à prendre en compte dans le cadre du suivi du  Forum de Dakar. Mon pays a inscrit dans ses priorités la suppression de l'écart qui subsiste entre les garçons et les filles  en matière de scolarisation, et sans les effets néfastes de la crise que le pays traverse depuis 1993, ce serait déjà une  réalité aujourd'hui. Ce secteur mérite qu'une attention soutenue lui soit accordée.
31.10 S'agissant des sciences, nous pensons que ce domaine devrait, de plus en plus, contribuer à apporter des  réponses aux problèmes réels vécus par nos sociétés. Les sciences doivent être au service des humains et viser le  développement durable. Cette préoccupation est reprise dans les conclusions de la Conférence mondiale sur la science  (CMS) dont les différents documents plaident pour un nouvel engagement en faveur de la science. Je voudrais  également souligner à ce propos la nécessité d'accroître la diffusion des informations scientifiques au profit des pays en  développement, de même que la participation de scientifiques qualifiés et expérimentés de ces mêmes pays à la mise en  oeuvre de certains programmes scientifiques de l'UNESCO. Les jeunes scientifiques de nos pays devraient être associés  aux différents réseaux de recherche car cela permettrait à la fois le renforcement des capacités et un échange  d'expériences profitables aux uns comme aux autres. C'est dans ce contexte d'échanges interuniversitaires qu'un campus  virtuel va voir le jour à l'Université du Burundi grâce au concours de l'Agence universitaire de la Francophonie. Les  besoins sont encore importants mais notre ambition est de connecter au réseau les principales écoles secondaires du  pays et d'encourager l'accès à l'Université virtuelle africaine.
31.11 S'agissant de la culture, nous notons avec beaucoup d'intérêt le fait que la protection de la diversité culturelle et  la promotion du pluralisme et du dialogue entre les cultures ont été retenues comme thème prioritaire et que les crédits  proposés dans le Projet de programme à cet effet ont augmenté de 50 % par rapport à l'exercice biennal passé. Notre  pays partage, par ailleurs, la préoccupation de l'UNESCO, qui est de se concentrer sur la promotion du patrimoine  culturel immatériel, car c'est notamment par cette voie qu'il pourrait raffermir la convivialité et le dialogue entre les  composantes de la société burundaise. En effet, notre culture est riche de valeurs qui rassemblent et qui encouragent le  respect des droits de l'homme, la justice et l'équité.
31.12 En conclusion, nous reconnaissons que des défis importants se posent à l'humanité aujourd'hui plus qu'hier ;  mais nous sommes aussi convaincus qu'avec les valeurs de solidarité et de partage que l'UNESCO met en avant, des  solutions peuvent être trouvées. Encore faudrait-il que les foyers de tensions qui s'allument de par le monde soient  éteints. L'UNESCO, chef de file de l'Année internationale de la culture de la paix doit poursuivre son oeuvre, multiplier  et renforcer ses actions de par le monde en faveur de la paix, des droits de l'homme, de la démocratie et de  l'épanouissement de toute personne humaine. En terminant, je voudrais féliciter le Directeur général de l'UNESCO pour  les réformes audacieuses qu'il a entreprises depuis qu'il est à la tête de notre Organisation, réformes qui vont donner un  nouvel élan à l'action de l'UNESCO à l'aube du troisième millénaire. Monsieur le Directeur général, mon pays vous sait  gré de la sollicitude que l'UNESCO ne cesse de manifester à son égard, particulièrement en cette période de crise où il a  besoin des efforts et de l'aide de tous pour sa reconstruction. Nous sommes également sensibles au maintien du Bureau  de Bujumbura jusqu'en décembre 2004, bien que nous aurions souhaité qu'il soit maintenu au-delà de cette date. Nous  pourrons de la sorte compter sur l'expérience et le dynamisme dudit Bureau, ainsi que sur son concours pour
260  accompagner le processus de paix dans lequel notre pays est engagé depuis la signature des Accords de paix le 28 août
2000. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
32. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I now call upon the distinguished Minister of Environment of the Czech  Republic, Mr Miloš Kužvart.
33.1 Mr KUŽVART (Czech Republic):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, first of all to congratulate you on your election. I am sure that thanks to your  wisdom and experience, the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO will meet all expectations and will  provide the Organization with a sound basis for its work during the coming years. I am proud that the outgoing  President, Ms Jaroslava Moserová comes from the Czech Republic. I would like to thank her for her tireless efforts in  promoting the lofty goals of UNESCO, and for her work in promoting cooperation among all Member States from  different parts of the world. I would also like to express our appreciation for the efforts of the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. Let me assure you that the Czech Republic supports his approach to the reform of UNESCO.
33.2 The main task of the 31st session of the General Conference is to adopt the new Medium-Term Strategy for
2002-2007 and the Programme and Budget for the next biennium. We welcome UNESCO’s efforts to focus on a limited  number of priorities. In this context we would like to express our appreciation for the work of the Task Force on  UNESCO in the Twenty-First Century and to thank its Chairperson, Mr Agnaïeff. The Czech Republic supports the  Draft Programme for the period 2002-2003. Concrete ideas concerning particular issues will be presented by members  of the Czech Delegation during the Commissions’ meetings. The Czech Republic also appreciates the efforts of the  Director-General to prepare a draft budget for the next two years based on zero nominal growth. However, taking into  account the tasks of our Organization, we consider that in the future it will be necessary to provide sufficient funds for  the implementation of the different UNESCO programmes.
33.3 The Medium-Term Strategy leads UNESCO into the fight against poverty and against the continuously  growing gap between rich and poor. We support the efforts devoted by UNESCO to Africa, which suffers from many  problems connected with poverty, such as lack of basic health care and education, continuing population growth,  devastation of the environment and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. As a Minister of Environment, I welcome the growing  understanding of the close links between poverty and the environment. The relation is a very complex one.  Environmental damage may cause poverty, and, conversely, poverty often forces people to behave in an unsustainable  and environmentally destructive way. Hence it is impossible to eradicate poverty without dealing with environmental  issues such as protecting natural resources, combating desertification and land degradation, introducing sustainable use  of forests and water resources, and many others. To deal with poverty, we have to understand its social, economic,  environmental and cultural aspects, and to address the problem in all its complexity.
33.4 The Czech Republic welcomes the priority given to the promotion of education as a fundamental right, in  accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We consider education to be the most important tool for  solving the global problems of the twenty-first century. As a member of the High-Level Group of Ministers of  Education, the Czech Republic is prepared to participate actively in the implementation of the recommendations of the  Dakar World Education Forum. Environmental education must represent a key part of education at all levels. People  must learn how to participate actively in the protection of their environment. They must know both their responsibilities  towards the environment and the damage they may cause. They also need to have information about their environment  and about their rights in matters of environmental protection. Accordingly, we consider the “Aarhus Convention” on  access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to be an  important step towards broader public participation in the protection of the environment, and in reaching a better quality  of life.
33.5 One of the socio-cultural problems faced by both the Czech Republic and other European countries is the  situation of the Roma minority. The Roma have their own second language and cultural heritage, they are freedom- loving and very talented. Before the Second World War the Roma and the majority population lived in peace and  mutual acceptance. Almost all of the indigenous Roma population in the Czech Republic perished in the Holocaust;  only a few hundred survived. Thus most of the Roma now living in the Czech Republic come from abroad, and  consequently suffer social and language disadvantages. We appreciate that UNESCO is contributing by various  programmes to solving the problem, for example by pre-school training of Roma children, and by providing assistance  to Roma children in grammar schools. We urge UNESCO to further strengthen its programmes by focusing on this  ethnic group – not only in the Czech Republic but wherever the problem exists. This is in full accordance with the wise  words of His Excellency the President of the French Republic when he referred in his speech to the problem of  minorities.
33.6 We also welcome UNESCO’s activities in the field of multilingualism. Languages are not only the means of  communication among the people; they also represent a key component of their national, historical, cultural and literary  heritage and knowledge. Harmonious development of society is possible only if we accept multicultural and  multilingual diversity.
33.7 UNESCO, which is the principal United Nations organization dealing with the natural and social sciences, has  an irreplaceable role in the development of scientific cooperation. We support the priority given to the protection of  water resources, which are scarce in many parts of the world and which even represent a potential for conflict. Water  quality affects people’s health, and is one of the most important issues in solving many human health problems,  including child mortality. We appreciate the work done by UNESCO in protecting ecosystems, such as the Man and the  Biosphere Programme, including the World Network of Biosphere Reserves that protects the world’s most valuable  ecosystems, or the Ramsar Convention focused on the conservation of wetlands. The UNESCO World Heritage List  documents the close connection between natural and man-made heritage and the need to protect both.
33.8 The Czech Republic welcomes the idea of establishing a UNESCO institute on hydrology in Delft. Our experts  are ready to cooperate with the institute and to contribute to its activities, for example through the international training  courses in hydrology for experts from developing countries which have been organized in Prague and sponsored by the  Czech Government regularly since 1966. The Czech Republic also welcomes UNESCO’s support for new and  renewable sources of energy, in particular solar energy. We hope that the Cleaner Production Principles will become  more popular, and that they will contribute to environmentally friendly industrial production.
33.9 UNESCO has achieved many positive results in the protection and safeguarding of our tangible cultural  heritage. The activities carried out under the Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  are much appreciated by the international community. The Czech Republic, a country with a long tradition of  preservation and protection of the cultural heritage, is proud that ten of its sites have been included in the World  Heritage List. In accordance with this tradition, the Czech Republic is presenting its candidature to the World Heritage  Committee. The notion of cultural heritage is not restricted to the tangible heritage, but comprises also cultural  landscapes, living cultural traditions and symbolic and spiritual values. Hence, we very much appreciate that in recent  years UNESCO has played the leading role in promoting the intangible heritage. The Czech Republic supports the  preparation of a normative instrument for the protection of the intangible heritage as the key to protecting cultural  diversity. At the same time, we welcome UNESCO’s pioneering role in the protection of the digital heritage. At present,  the key role in development efforts is played by information and communication technologies. We appreciate the  creation of the new intergovernmental programme “Information for All”, which should provide the basis for decision- making about fundamental aspects of day-to-day life.
33.10 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO, more than any other international forum, provides people from  all cultures and religions with the possibility of meeting and learning about each other and exchanging views. We have  come here from various parts of our planet to contribute to the solution of the problems of today’s world. Despite our  different backgrounds, we can approach these problems through the universal human values that unite us. The highest  of all is the value of human life. By the events of 11 September of this year, we have been tragically reminded that we  need to promote the culture of peace and to build an environment in which the principles underpinning these universally  shared values can take root. We should not forget that poverty and inequality represent the breeding ground for every  sort of extremism. I believe that through its programmes focusing on the eradication of property and the promotion of  education for all, UNESCO can play a key role in our struggle against terrorism by peaceful means. Now, more than  ever, we must strive to overcome our differences and be guided by our common interests. Let us unite our efforts and  ensure that our work during this Conference contributes to a better world. Thank you for your attention.
34.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much.  (The President continues in Spanish)
(34.2) (Translation from the Spanish): I have the honour to invite Her Excellency the Ambassador of the Dominican  Republic to take the floor.
(35.1) Ms DESPRADEL (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates: First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election as the head  of this honourable assembly, in which your intellectual and ethical abilities have already enabled you to play an important  role.
(35.2) My delegation comes from a nation-State created 157 years ago. On our territory, populations originating in the  early pre-Columbian, Mediterranean, African and Far and Middle Eastern civilizations have met and merged in sadness, in  contradiction and also in love. We are one of the most mixed populations in the world. We have had a turbulent history  with war and conflicts, internal and external, but about four decades ago, our political and civil leaders, learning from our  mistakes and from the knowledge of many of the countries represented here, turned to dialogue and cooperation to settle all  our contradictions. We reached agreements, our aim being to maintain the peace and equilibrium of our democracy, many  times renouncing some of our most cherished and legitimate ambitions. Our Government, faced with the painful events of  recent weeks, has expressed its confusion and condemnation and, to confront global terrorism, is giving priority to the  enforcement of international law and justice. Our delegation to UNESCO therefore endorses the statements of the Director- General with regard to those events.
(35.3)  The Dominican Republic supports all efforts to restructure the administration of UNESCO Headquarters and to  promote its decentralization, and we welcome the fact that the Organization is again taking up the essential role that it  should be playing in the field of education, in all its aspects. Our Delegation accordingly endorses the Medium-Term  Strategy (31 C/4) and the Programme and Budget (31 C/5) presented by the Director-General.
(35.4)  With regard to culture, our Delegation endorses the text on cultural diversity submitted by UNESCO and favours  its rapid adoption.
(35.5) Our country is observing with the greatest interest UNESCO’s efforts to establish standards for the protection of  the intangible heritage. In that regard, I should like to inform you that the President of the Dominican Republic, His  Excellency Hipólito Mejía, inspired by UNESCO, has just introduced, by decree, an amendment to our general law on the
263  cultural heritage, which provides for the creation of the national register of intangible cultural property of the cultural  heritage of the Dominican Republic. The cultures of the globe give humanity reasons to for existing. Protecting them is one  of our basic missions. Mr President, the Director-General of UNESCO is a moderate and sensible man. Our delegation  supports all his initiatives to safeguard the endangered cultural and natural heritage of humanity. Furthermore, we ask that  this honourable and sovereign assembly adopt, during this session, the convention on the protection of the underwater  cultural heritage.
(35.6)  We believe, today more than ever, that UNESCO must strengthen its role as the intellectual forum of humanity.  Some thinkers in the last century said we had come to the end of utopias. It is our task to prove them wrong, recreating  utopias in this millennium, with our resources of tolerance, intelligence, imagination and, above all, determination. Thank  you very much, Mr President.
36. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, you have saved us three minutes. I promise you that tomorrow I  will bring you three boxes of chocolates After Eight. I now invite His Excellency Lyonpo Thinly Gyamtsho, Minister  for Home Affairs and Chairperson of the National Commission for Cultural Affairs and of the National Commission for  UNESCO of Bhutan to take the floor.
37.1 Mr LYONPO THINLY GYAMTSHO (Bhutan):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I should like to extend my warm  congratulations to you, Mr Jalali, on your assumption of the Presidency of the General Conference at this session. We  are confident that with your vast experience and able guidance, you will steer our deliberations to a fruitful conclusion. I  would also like to commend Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, our Director-General, for the exemplary manner in which he has  been carrying out his onerous responsibilities. My delegation welcomes the initiatives taken by him to streamline the  structure and functioning of UNESCO. We would also like to place on record our appreciation of the outstanding work  accomplished by the Executive Board and the recommendations made by it for our consideration.
37.2 Mr President, as the first General Conference of the new millennium, it is indeed an opportune moment for us  to reflect on UNESCO’s performance during the past five decades in order to prepare us for the enormous challenges  that lie ahead. While we take joy in the many successes of UNESCO, we must acknowledge that the challenges ahead  will be far greater than the ones we have confronted so far. Although advances in the field of science and technology,  and in globalization, offer many opportunities and benefits, these have yet to touch the lives of the majority of people in  the developing countries, who still live in absolute poverty, face increasing illiteracy and bear the heavy burden of  epidemics such as HIV/AIDS. The challenges we face are formidable but we must resolve to overcome them in a true  spirit of partnership and shared responsibility for the betterment of our peoples.
37.3 Mr President, in the recent past, we have been harshly reminded of the evils of terrorism. Acts of terror  continue to jeopardize and undermine fundamental human rights and security in many countries. As the principal  victims of such acts are innocent people, it is, indeed, the most flagrant violation of basic human rights. My delegation  would like to express its deepest condolences to the people and government of the United States for the tragic loss of  lives and extensive destruction of property resulting from the senseless and inexplicable acts of terror perpetrated on 11  September. We unequivocally condemn such heinous and dastardly acts and fully endorse the need to strengthen the  international consensus and legal regimes against terrorism.
37.4 In our region of South Asia, terrorism has been rife for many years, and my country has not been spared from  this menace. We have experienced numerous acts of terror and this continues to harm and threaten the security of my  country. However, notwithstanding our limited resources, we have taken a firm stand against terrorism and our resolve  to prevent, combat and eliminate this scourge remains steadfast.
37.5 Mr President, the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 is of particular importance as it is crucial for the  execution of the draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007. My delegation fully supports the recommendations made  by the Executive Board. Poverty eradication, the contribution of information and communication technologies to the  development of education, science and culture, and the construction of a knowledge-based society are fundamental to  all of UNESCO’s activities and therefore must permeate all our actions. The World Education Forum in Dakar last year  provided an opportunity to assess the achievements and failures of the “Jomtien Decade”, and to chart our course for  future efforts to carry the expanded vision of education into the twenty-first century. The importance of education was  aptly emphasized by the President of the World Bank in Dakar: “No country has succeeded without educating its  people; education is the key to sustaining growth and reducing poverty.” It is, therefore, most appropriate and  imperative that UNESCO continues to attach the highest priority to Education for All in its Medium-Term Strategy. My  delegation is happy to note that the Dakar follow-up process is gaining momentum and that UNESCO has placed the  outcomes and priorities of Dakar at the heart of its work.
37.6 We welcome the outcome of the 46th session of the International Conference on Education held in Geneva last  month and are hopeful that the Conference will serve to strengthen the commitments made in Dakar. In keeping with its  theme, “Learning to live together”, Bhutan has endeavoured to introduce a system of continuous learning that is  responsive to the needs of communities, groups and individuals. My delegation strongly feels that in order to keep the  spirit of Jomtien alive and to fulfil the commitments of Dakar, it is vital for small States, in particular the LDCs, to be  given special support by the international community.
37.7 In Bhutan, about 30% of our national budget is allotted to the social sector, in which education is an important  component. With the generous support of our development partners, I am happy to state that we have achieved a  primary education coverage of 72% and a literacy rate of 54% within the short period since the beginning of our  modern education system in the 1960s. We are confident that, at the present pace, we will achieve universal primary  school enrolment by 2002, full enrolment at junior high school by 2007, and full enrolment at high school by 2012.
37.8 With the rapid advances in socio-economic development and urbanization, we are now confronted with  problems faced by youth all over the world. These include juvenile delinquency and youth unemployment. Bhutan is  responding to these emerging problems by providing a holistic education programme that emphasizes the all-round  development of the child. It includes providing children with basic life skills, engaging them in cultural and sporting  activities, strengthening value education through an activity-based child-centred approach, sharing information about  HIV/AIDS and substance abuse, and providing young people with career counselling.
37.9 Mr President, last December, I had the privilege of presiding over one of the sessions of the second Round  Table Meeting of Ministers of Culture, held here at UNESCO Headquarters. The meeting provided an excellent  opportunity to analyse the challenges of globalization to different cultures and the role of UNESCO. Given the  importance of the issue and recognizing the valuable contributions made by the Executive Board and the Secretariat, my  delegation appreciates and welcomes the draft UNESCO declaration on cultural diversity, which is to be considered by  this Conference. The declaration will greatly help in guiding UNESCO in all its future activities in the area of  preserving cultural identities and promoting cultural diversity. The preservation and promotion of Bhutan’s rich cultural  heritage and traditional values has always been given high priority by my Government. Over the years, we have worked  to strengthen existing institutions and to establish new ones to protect our national treasures and monuments,  archaeological landmarks and various forms of living arts. In addition to the National Commission for Cultural Affairs,  we have recently set up a Cultural Trust Fund to serve as a sustainable financing mechanism for various activities. We  look forward to receiving the valuable support of the international community to make such a funding mechanism  operational. Further, I am pleased to state that my Government has recently decided to accede to the UNESCO World  Heritage Convention. I am confident that this will provide further impetus to our efforts to preserve our culture and  traditions.
37.10 Mr President, information and communication technologies (ICTs) offer unprecedented opportunities and  Bhutan is working to take advantage of their enormous potential. Numerous steps have been taken, including the  formulation of an information technology master plan, creation of a new Department of Information Technology and  the promotion of ICT in our education system. We remain hopeful that, with the generous support of our development  partners, we will be able to seize the opportunities that ICTs have to offer. Bhutan is encouraged that the United Nations  system has put ICT at the top of its agenda in raising general awareness of its potential for development. We have noted  that, under the guidance of ECOSOC, discussions are under way among the United Nations agencies, including  UNESCO, to coordinate their activities in their efforts to assist Member States. The efforts of UNESCO in this regard  are highly commendable and we urge the Organization to continue with its objective of building a society based on the  sharing of knowledge. The presence of the new information and communication technologies in UNESCO’s Education  Programme and Intergovernmental Programme on “Information for All” is highly appreciated. We would like to urge  UNESCO’s partners, especially the private sector, to continue their support in order to realize these important  initiatives. My delegation welcomes the generous offer, by the Government of Japan, of a comprehensive cooperation  package worth US $15 billion over five years to assist the cause of removing the global digital divide.
37.11 Mr President, while we speak of the need to accelerate the pace of development and participate gainfully in a  globalized world, the importance of peace, security and contentment to the human individual cannot be overstated. In  this context, Bhutan has always endeavoured to pursue a development path based on the concept of Gross National  Happiness rather than Gross National Product. This development philosophy aims to ensure that the end product of  development is to bring happiness to the individual; development is gauged not just in terms of income growth but in  terms of general happiness, contentment, and the spiritual and emotional well-being of the people. It exemplifies a  holistic approach to development through the preservation of our rich cultural heritage, conservation of our pristine  environment, and the strengthening of good governance. Inspired by this concept, which is built into our development  philosophy, Bhutan places people at the centre of its development process, always endeavouring to ensure that  development is balanced, equitable and sustainable. Thank you and Tashi Delek!
38. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Before I call our next speaker, I would like to announce the award of three  After Eight prizes to three distinguished colleagues who saved us time, Switzerland, Croatia and the Dominican  Republic. I hope everyone will be able to win one. I have a lot of them! I invite His Excellency Mr Suwit Khunkitti,  distinguished Minister of Education of Thailand, to take the floor.
39.1 Mr KHUNKITTI (Thailand):   Thank you. Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished  delegates and observers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Thai delegation and on my own behalf, may I extend to  you our warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Conference. I am confident that  under your able and dynamic leadership, this session of the General Conference will undoubtedly be steered to a  successful conclusion.
39.2 The Thai delegation fully appreciates the significance of the present session and would like to thank the  UNESCO Director-General and members of the Secretariat for their preparation of the C/4 and C/5 documents in a new  format which reflects the needs of UNESCO’s Member States in a clear and concise manner. Thailand is gratified to  note the high priority accorded to the main thrust on Education for All, for which we would like to assure you of our  strongest support. After the Jomtien Conference, Thailand participated in the assessment of Education for All and  hosted the Asia-Pacific Conference on EFA 2000 Assessment in Bangkok last year. In my new post of Minister of  Education, which I assumed only last week, I am pleased to have the opportunity to tackle the challenge of social  inequality. To close the knowledge divide, I am launching a new project called ‘Decade for Quality and Equity in  Education’. This new initiative of mine will speed up the reform process institutionalized by the National Education Act  of 1999. The ultimate aim of this Act is to transform Thai society into a learning society and eventually a knowledge- based society. To ensure the realization of this plan, Thailand’s educational budget this year has been given top priority  and is now the largest of all.
39.3 Mr President, Thailand wholeheartedly endorses UNESCO’s poverty eradication programme. To ensure  sustainable development, we have linked it with capacity-building efforts on an area-based principle. Under our One  Million Baht Village and Urban Community Fund, every village and poor urban community in Thailand, of which there  are some 75,000, will each receive a one million baht revolving fund, at a cost of just under $2 billion, by the end of this  year. Poor villagers, both rural and urban, are empowered not only to propose their own projects but to manage and  ensure their viability. To lay a solid economic foundation at the grass-roots level, a People’s Bank lends a nominal sum  of 15,000 baht, or about US $300, without collateral, to small entrepreneurs while the debts of poor farmers under
100,000 baht, or US $2,500 are suspended for three years. We hope that relieving poor farmers from debt pressure will  give them time to learn new skills to supplement their farm incomes so that they will be able to pay off their debts after  three years.
39.4 Also with the farmers in mind, Thailand endorses UNESCO’s strategic plan to ensure the viability of mankind  through environmental management, in particular the management of freshwater resources. As a former Minister of  Science, Technology, and Environment as well as of Agriculture, I am personally concerned with water management in  Thailand. Farmers are being helped through a national water supply network while wastewater in urban centres is being  dealt with under a polluter-pays basis. We commend UNESCO’s leadership in this field and endorse the establishment  of regional institutes for water resources.
39.5 Mr President, regarding information and communication technologies (ICTs), Thailand supports the  “Information for All” programme and has submitted its candidature for membership of the relevant Intergovernmental  Council. As an e-Minister and the Nation’s Chief Information Officer, I have been an advocate for the free flow of  information under Thailand’s new Official Information Act. The present administration, under the leadership of His  Excellency Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, has ensured two-way communication for all 7,000 sub-districts or  tambons by providing them with Internet access under the Thai Tambon.Com Project. Not only can each village  promote its own products through e-commerce, but the authorities now receive updated information provided by the  villagers themselves.
39.6 Most of all, however, UNESCO can play a prominent role in capacity-building and in bridging the digital  divide. In Thailand, under the initiative of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, a SchoolNet Project  has been launched and will connect some 35,000 primary and secondary schools to the Internet by 2003. This project  has now been expanded into an EdNet to link the public with virtual libraries and all levels of education from primary  schools to the universities. Thailand is ready to extend cooperation to countries in the region and subregion under the  Information for All programme, to be enhanced by technical expertise provided by the UNESCO Regional Office for  Education in Bangkok.
39.7 Mr President, Thailand fully recognizes the importance of protecting both the tangible and intangible cultural  heritage, including oral traditions. Therefore, we appreciate the timeliness of the declaration on cultural diversity and  the convention concerning the protection of the underwater cultural heritage. Likewise, Thailand supports UNESCO’s  preparation of a new international standard-setting instrument for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage.  Thailand also supports UNESCO’s flagship programme related to the World Heritage Convention. We would like  UNESCO to further enhance international cooperation and provide training to enhance the capacity-building of local  authorities for the purpose of protecting the environment of historic towns. Our youth should also be encouraged to  participate actively in the preservation of cultural and natural sites through both formal and non-formal education.
39.8 Mr President, in the aftermath of the 11 September tragedy, Thailand commends more than ever the UNESCO  Associated Schools Project aimed at furthering respect for human rights and strengthening international understanding.  Bearing in mind the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World, our  children and youth must learn how to search for peace, to respect the views of others, and not to seek to resolve  conflicts through violence.
39.9 In closing, Thailand wishes to launch a plea to UNESCO to safeguard its very own flagship programme – the  Courier. This publication has enjoyed growing popularity and widening readership not only in Thailand but in  neighbouring Laos. Its demise would leave a cultural and educational gap that will be hard to fill in our region. Thank  you.
40. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Dr Suwit Khunkitti. I should also like to congratulate you on your new appointment as  Minister of Education of your country. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Osman Farruq, Permanent Secretary  to the Minister of Education of Bangladesh. Excellency you have the floor.
41.1 Mr OSMAN FARRUQ (Bangladesh):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, if I may be  allowed to make a correction, I have also, like my predecessor, just been appointed Minister of Education in  Bangladesh, so I as the minister have taken the opportunity to be present here today. It is a great honour and privilege  for me to be able to attend the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I extend to this august gathering  greetings and regards from Begum Khaleda Zia, the newly elected Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of  Bangladesh and from its people.
41.2 We have just completed a fair and free general election on 1 October, under the aegis of the caretaker  Government. The democratic practices and values in Bangladesh, as evidenced during these elections, are also clearly  commensurate with UNESCO’s mission as outlined in its constitutional obligation. We also take pride in the fact that  both the elected Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition are two distinguished ladies of the country.
41.3 Mr President, may I take this opportunity to congratulate you on behalf of my delegation and on my own  behalf on your assuming this important and distinguished office. We firmly believe that this Conference will achieve its  objectives under your able guidance. We are also delighted to see an illustrious personality like Mr Matsuura at the  helm of UNESCO. Kindly allow me to thank him, as Director-General of UNESCO, for his ardent efforts in realizing  the objectives of this esteemed Organization. I congratulate him for presenting such a comprehensive Draft Programme  and Budget for the 2002-2003 biennium as well as for a results-based draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007.
41.4 We would like to thank the Chairperson and Members of the Executive Board for efficiently discharging their  responsibilities and especially for strenuously executing the programmes of the last biennium. I, on behalf of my  delegation and myself, welcome the new Members who have joined the Organization since the 30th session of General  Conference.
41.5 Mr President, I express the gratitude of the people of Bangladesh to UNESCO for declaring 21 February  International Mother Language Day. We are immensely gratified and honoured to have been able to welcome His  Excellency the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, to Bangladesh in connection with the  foundation-laying ceremony of the International Mother Language Institute early this year.
41.6 Mr President, kindly allow me to throw some light on the significance of this 31st session as envisaged by my  delegation. This session is taking place at a time when the areas of UNESCO’s concern are undergoing great changes,  globally. In the light of these global changes, UNESCO’s mission during the medium-term period (2002-2007) is to  contribute to peace and human development in an era of globalization through education, science, culture and  communication. We all are aware that the goal of economic development of a country is to increase the well-being and  quality of life of its people through economic growth with social justice. This includes women as well as men.  Responding to the needs of women in the least developed countries, a gender perspective has been integrated into the  planning, programming, implementation and evaluation of activities in all the areas of UNESCO’s competence with a
267  view to promoting empowerment and gender equality. Bangladesh is committed to addressing women’s priorities  through the greater participation of women at all levels and in all areas of UNESCO’s action.
41.7 Our Education Policy 2000 envisages substantial restructuring of primary and secondary education, with the  ultimate aim of raising the literacy rate and the quality of education at all levels. The Government is committed to  raising the literacy rate to 100% by about the year 2015, with a mid-term target of about 70% by 2002. Besides, more  emphasis will be given to technical and vocational education programmes at the broader secondary and after secondary  levels, but also at the university level, in order to broaden the technological base for the supply of skilled manpower to  assist economic development.
41.8 To this end, the Government of Bangladesh has accorded high priority to education in allocated its scarce  resources, and we now allocating about 15% of our national budget thereto. My delegation is pleased to see that the  draft Medium-Term Strategy (2002-2007) assiduously prepared by the Director-General of UNESCO and his team,  through a process of complex consultations with relevant groups, seeks to accomplish the tasks assigned to UNESCO  by the World Education Forum. We fully agree with and support the Director-General in his identification of  international development goals. As a developing country whose economy is in transition, Bangladesh has no option but  to pursue development strategies for reducing extreme poverty, consolidating ongoing universal primary education,  ensuring gender equality, reducing infant, child and maternal mortality, ensuring reproductive health, and improving the  environment.
41.9 In regard to the cultural heritage, Bangladesh welcomes the activities of the World Heritage Committee and its  global strategy for a balanced and representative World Heritage List. In this context, we believe that the world  Heritage Membership programme will provide the building blocks for the existing World Heritage Information  Network.
41.10 Mr President, we note with appreciation the initiative taken by the Director-General firmly to establish  transparency, accountability and a results-based approach in UNESCO. The Organization’s effort to do away with  marginal endeavours is also appreciated by my delegation. We, however, feel that reform must not be undertaken solely  for the sake of reform. Reforms have to be underpinned by a strong desire to achieve tangible results. On the question of  decentralization at field level, my delegation would urge the Director-General to formulate arrangements so that the  national offices work in close cooperation with the National Commissions, with the ultimate objective of empowering  the Commissions to assume greater responsibilities to accomplish UNESCO’s mission and objectives.
41.11 My delegation is concerned to note the resource constraints encountered by the Director-General in embarking  on useful programmes. We are particularly concerned that the Participation Programme might suffer a setback due to  this. The Participation Programme has helped LDCs such as Bangladesh to develop its resources. It would be  unfortunate if this window of opportunity were to be closed as a result of resource constraints. In this regard, we would  like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the assurances given by the developed countries at the World Education  Forum held in Dakar, Senegal, to support adequate resource flow for the education sector in the LDCs.
41.12 While we basically agree with the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003, I would, nonetheless, like to  make a few observations, first on the content of Major Programme II entitled “Natural sciences”. This comprises three  programmes (including projects relating to cross-cutting themes) and seven sub-programmes. However, the four sub- programmes 11.2.1 to 11.2.4 under “Sciences, environment and sustainable development” appear to be somewhat  inadequate in highlighting the problems of arsenic contamination of groundwater and its effects on human and all other  ecosystems, as well as other natural disasters caused by tidal bores, cyclones, tornadoes and such. Millions of people  living in deltaic regions like Bangladesh are victims of such natural and man-made disasters. The inclusion of these  particular types of disasters in the programme is, therefore, essential.
41.13 On bio-ethics, Bangladesh intends to support the international convention against human cloning for  reproduction which is to be placed on the agenda of the 56th United Nations General Assembly. Bangladesh strongly  feels that human reproduction for cloning is against human dignity and ethics, and in the long run is likely to lead to  disastrous consequences for humankind.
41.14 We strongly recommend that the collection and dissemination of information on skills and knowledge and  relevant market variables should be an integral part of Major Programme V. This will be of utmost benefit to countries  like Bangladesh.
41.15 Mr President, while Bangladesh does desire, with all earnestness, the successful implementation of all the  programmes and projects designed for 2002-2003, it also wishes to put in a word of caution. We must not lose sight of  the mission of UNESCO, which is to establish peace through education and culture. As we are in the new millennium,  the technological gap between the advanced and the developing countries will tend to increase. We must not allow this
268  great divide to widen. This will create more tension among different societies leading to more conflicts, more  destruction and more human suffering. It should be UNESCO’s concern not to let this happen.
41.16 Mr President, I should like to reiterate the commitment of Bangladesh to the ideals and principles of UNESCO.  We pledge, as ever before, our fullest support and cooperation to the Organization. Mr President, distinguished  delegates, I express my sincere gratitude for your kind attention and patient hearing. I thank you all.
42. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Dr Osman Farruq, Minister of Education of Bangladesh. We congratulate you on your  new appointment, and I should like to apologize on behalf of the Secretariat of the General Conference for the mistake  published here. No doubt there was some failure here. I apologize again, and our Secretary will find out why this  mistake happened. May I now invite His Excellency Mr Goran Svilanovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Yugoslavia,  to take the floor.
43.1 Mr SVILANOVIĆ (Yugoslavia):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am  addressing you here today for the first time since the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was readmitted to UNESCO,  convinced that my country is ready to make a full contribution to the principles and purposes on which the Organization  was based. With the assistance of UNESCO, we are all striving to build a world in which the dignity of all Member  States and peoples, mutual understanding and respect, interaction between their cultural and spiritual values as well as  solidarity among them will be the fundamental values marking the twenty-first century. At the same time, we are aware  of the great complexity of current political relations in the world. Therefore we believe that science, education and  culture could be essential bonds in multi-faceted cooperation and communications among all States in the world, thus at  least fulfilling some of the hopes and aspirations of millions of people.
43.2 In this respect, the Yugoslav delegation stands ready to cooperate fully with UNESCO and with other countries  in the implementation of the Organization’s programmes. With this in mind, we have presented our candidature for  membership of the Executive Board. This is my country’s first candidature for a seat on a body within the United  Nations system since it was re-integrated into the family of international organizations. If we win your confidence, we  shall seek, in our overall activity, to demonstrate our full commitment to the noble goals which UNESCO stands for. I  should like to take this opportunity to thank Ms Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux, Chairperson of UNESCO’s Executive  Board, for the warm words addressed to my country at the opening of the General Conference.
43.3 Mr President, this General Conference coincides with the efforts that the international community is making to  prevent and combat terrorism. This time, I should like to reiterate our condemnation of the unprecedented terrorist  attacks on the United States of America, to confirm our full support for the anti-terrorism coalition and to express once  again our deepest condolences to the Government and people of the United States of America. My Government fully  supports the recently adopted United Nations Security Council resolutions 1368 and 1373 as well as the United Nations  General Assembly resolution 56/1. Terrorism poses a threat to international peace and security, and we believe that all  States should take measures to bring the perpetrators, instigators and sponsors of such acts of terror to justice.
43.4 In this context, the role of the United Nations is central. We share the opinion of the Secretary-General who, in  his recent statement, said that “the United Nations must provide a framework of shared values and understanding,  within which their free and voluntary efforts can interact with and reinforce each other, instead of getting in each  other’s way.” Regrettably, terrorists and terrorism are present in the region of South-East Europe. In fact, terrorism is  closely connected with transnational organized crime, human and drug trafficking, money laundering and other similar  crimes. This is seriously affecting the stability of South-East Europe as a whole. Clearly, there is a need to enhance  coordination and cooperation at the subregional and regional levels in order to meet this challenge.
43.5 Ladies and gentlemen, I must seize this opportunity to highlight the problems of protection of the cultural  heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, which have been administered by the United Nations since June 1999. Over the last  two years more than a hundred sites of great historic and civilizational value have been destroyed there, despite the  clearly worded provisions and a commitment to implement the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural  Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. There is an urgent need for assistance to prepare a plan of action to protect  from further degradation and to rehabilitate medieval cultural and architectural sites. It is also hoped that UNESCO will  soon complete the process initiated, and include in its World Heritage List a number of the sites in Kosovo and  Metohija, such as the Dećani and Graćanica monasteries. Not so long ago, UNESCO strongly supported the restoration  of the education system in the Albanian language in Kosovo and Metohija. Similarly, we expect UNESCO to help to  restore the Serbian-language education there, and to recognize the need for repairs to schools in numerous Serbian  enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija.
43.6 Mr President, in order to ensure a lasting peace in South-East Europe, it is necessary, in our opinion, to  contemplate a regional approach through a reaffirmation of the principles of the Helsinki Charter, namely, the
269  inviolability of borders, but also through the resolution of substantive issues such as that of minorities. Such a political  programme needs to be followed up by cooperation in science, culture, education and information. Education for all  must be the priority of cooperation among the countries of South-East Europe. It will not solve problems in the region  of its own accord, but it is certainly part of a long-term solution through the promotion of democracy and human rights.
43.7 By virtue of its history, culture and civilization, the region to which my country belongs has an important place  within UNESCO’s programmes. It is a region for which UNESCO should devise an even more coherent and systematic  strategy. Cooperation among the interested Member States could be improved with the assistance of other international  organizations and UNESCO, with a view to developing a unique regional cultural identity based on close historical and  cultural ties. Such a regional dimension, combined with the rich cultural heritage, ties in with the efforts UNESCO is  making in its Medium-Term Strategy to promote culture and communications in an age of globalization. It is extremely  important, therefore, to continue placing emphasis on a dialogue between different civilizations, cultures and religions,  especially in the south-eastern part of Europe, i.e. in the Balkans. Yugoslavia stands ready to make its own constructive  contribution in this regard.
43.8 The past decade has seen the total disintegration of the network of cooperation and infrastructure of scientific  cooperation in South-East Europe, which has also adversely affected the broader scientific community. This network  and infrastructure will now have to be repaired, and linked with scientific institutions in Europe and throughout the  world. This issue will be dealt with more extensively at a special meeting of Ministers of Science and Technology of  South-East Europe, to be held in a few days’ time, when important decisions relating to the adoption of an Action Plan  of relevance for the development of the region will be considered.
43.9 Protection of cultural diversity and promotion of pluralism are not only the subject of UNESCO’s long-term  action, but are also an indispensable condition for the development of truly democratic societies where human rights are  guaranteed. The new authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have done much in this respect also.  Nevertheless, there is still room for further action. We expect that UNESCO will provide its practical assistance for the  preservation of specific cultural characteristics and diversity. As a multiethnic, multicultural and multiconfessional  country, we uphold the proposed declaration on cultural diversity, which, if adopted at this General Conference, will be  the first declaration of its kind on such an important issue.
43.10 Mr President, in conclusion, I express the hope that this General Conference will adopt a significant number of  decisions reaffirming and further promoting UNESCO activities aimed at addressing many problems within its fields of  competence. The Yugoslav delegation will act along these lines, wishing to contribute thereby to the successful  deliberations of the Conference. Thank you, Mr President.
44. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much and welcome back. I now invite His Excellency Ms Ganka Samoilovska Cvetanova,  distinguished Minister of Culture of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Madam, you have the floor.
45.1 Ms CVETANOVA (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, honourable delegates, it  is for me a great honour and pleasure to greet the General Conference on behalf of the Government of the Republic of  Macedonia, and on my own behalf as President of the National UNESCO Commission, and at the same time to wish it  successful and fruitful deliberations.
45.2 Let me express my pleasure that the Republic of Macedonia is involved in the noble activities and goals of  UNESCO on equal terms, and that it has been given the opportunity to deepen friendly and human relations, in a  democratic and mutually respectful way, with other people regardless of their nationality, religion and sex and with the  other Members of this great Organization. UNESCO support in realizing programme activities and meeting needs  through the mutual exchange of experience in the fields of science, education and culture contributes to enrich the spirit  of tolerance and the culture of peace. Unfortunately, in the year 2001, a year that the United Nations and UNESCO have  proclaimed to be the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations and the International Year of Mobilization  against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, certain people in the world, in the name of  human rights, have started a dialogue of violence: instead of seeking solutions they leave chaos and misery, taking even  the most precious things of all – human life itself and destroying the most valuable achievements of civilization.
45.3 Bearing in mind that the 31st session of the General Conference represents a first major intergovernmental  forum of political dialogue after the tragic events in the United States, I take this opportunity to express my condolences  for the lost lives and the material damage caused in the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington and offer our  country’s unreserved support in the fight against terrorism in all its forms. The question of terrorism and ethnic  nationalism brings me to mention the current crisis in my country. Even though the Republic of Macedonia is still a  country in transition, its social system is based on human rights, parliamentary democracy, and a market economy. It is
270  hard at work harmonizing its legislation with that of the European Union. As a result, the Republic of Macedonia was  the first country to sign an association and stabilization agreement with the European Union which was a great  recognition for us.
45.4 However, in spite of all our efforts and international acknowledgements, the Republic of Macedonia from the  beginning of this year has been facing one of the most critical moments in its recent history, involving violence,  extremism and terrorism. Despite its reputation as a role model for a multiethnic country and as a country in which  multiethnic relations were vital to the building of democratic relationships, at the start of the third millennium, we are  witnessing the vandalistic and uncivilized destruction of exquisite cultural monuments which represented a part of the  world’s cultural heritage owing to their inestimable artistic and historic significance: a mined church, a burned fifteenth- century mosque, and the destruction of priceless frescoes of fourteenth-century Byzantine art. At this moment, the fate  of many other temples, shrines and cultural monuments is still unknown.
45.5 I honestly hope and want to believe that all our appeals to the relevant international bodies remained  unanswered not because they are ignoring our problem, but because of the helplessness of the international community  in the face of the dark reason of terrorists and their vandalism, just as the world was powerless to prevent the demolition  of the Buddhist statues in Afghanistan. Militant extremism hits directly at the root of all attempts for a peaceful  resolution of conflicts, at the root of all attempts at political and democratic dialogue. Violence can turn long- established tolerance into destructive hatred in a very short time. Culture cannot hinder violence, but it can play a  preventive role by nurturing the centuries-old tradition of tolerance in interethnic relations.
45.6 The multilayered cultural stratography of the Republic of Macedonia has given to Europe and the world, as  works of the creative spirit, countless artefacts made in various materials and shapes and characteristic of different  historical eras and civilizations. Our country has a cultural heritage of such value and characteristics that it is included  on UNESCO’s World Heritage List. The city of Ohrid is a part of the world’s natural and cultural heritage under the  UNESCO Convention of 1972.
45.7 One day things will be rebuilt, but the destroyed cultural heritage is lost forever, and a part of our collective  memory has been erased.
45.8 Bearing in mind the human principles and past efforts of UNESCO, I believe that the Organization will have a  great and leading role in the fight against terrorism, and will, together with all its member countries, strive to spread a  high degree of tolerance, understanding and cultural cooperation among people.
45.9 The Republic of Macedonia actively participates in the initiatives and programme activities of UNESCO,  which create conditions and new opportunities for mutual cooperation among peoples and open new perspectives for  building a culture of peace, tolerance, non-violence and mutual respect, for developing and broadening new scientific  ideas and technological inventions, for preserving the cultural heritage and for respecting human rights.
45.10 Let me conclude by expressing my gratitude to UNESCO for its great understanding of our needs and the hope  that, through the National Commission of the Republic of Macedonia, we will help to enrich its work with novel ideas  and initiatives. I firmly believe that the solution of problems should always be sought with open and continued dialogue  based on total mutual understanding and mutual respect for the diversity of people and nations. Thank you for your  attention.
46.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you Madam. Madam, could you please come here to receive your prize, your After Eight prize.   (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٤٦,٢ א ، א א א  .א
(47.1) Mr ABDELRAZEK (Permanent Observer for Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the three years I have been  at UNESCO I have tried to avoid futile wrangling and endeavoured never to reply to accusations made against us, but I  have insisted on replying this time for two reasons: first, because I have been afforded the opportunity as an Observer to  congratulate you on your election as President of the General Conference of UNESCO. The second reason is that when I  heard the address of the Israeli Minister of Education delivered on her behalf by the Ambassador of Israel, I thought I was  standing in a crowd of Israeli settlers on the West Bank or in Gaza watching a candidate of an extremist party campaigning  for election, rather than attending an international meeting. Here, I should like to say that it would not be appropriate to  your dignity for me to respond to the Minister’s inflammatory remarks about Islam, because our religion commands us to  believe in the messages of our prophets Moses and Jesus, peace be upon them. I do, however, agree with the Minister on  some of the issues raised by her. First, is assassination a terrorist act? Yes. President Yasser Arafat has strongly condemned  it, whoever it is carried out by, and in whatever manner, but the Minister and the Israeli Ambassador have failed to  condemn more than 30 assassinations undertaken by their government against Palestinian officials, and the killing of 106  students. Unfortunately, however, I must revise that figure, because it is now 107, as a 12-year-old schoolgirl was killed  this morning. Furthermore, 2,180 have been injured in their places of study. Secondly, no, there is no such thing as good  terrorism and bad terrorism, or major and minor terrorism, as she put it. Individual terrorism, like state terrorism, must be  punished so that future generations are not deprived of the foundations of justice. Thirdly, I agree with the Minister that  individuals have to learn to hate, for how can Israeli children learn to love their neighbour if they grow up believing they  have the right to colonize another people? I ask the Israeli Minister of Education: are Israeli children taught at school that  occupation is a daily form of terrorism which is endured by another people who are their close neighbours?
(47.2) As for the UNESCO Prize for Peace Education awarded to the Givat Haviva centre, this is no credit to the Israeli  government, since the centre owes its existence to an Israeli non-governmental organization that believes in genuine peace  with the Palestinian people. We send our greetings and congratulations to the members of Givat Haviva for winning the  UNESCO Prize for Peace Education. Despite the great efforts of the Palestinian people, our hands still reach out for peace,  and we are still waiting for others to grasp them. Lastly, I turn to the Israelis to say to them that anyone who wishes to raise  the banners of civilization and democracy, in a sincere gesture rather than as a slogan, must forgo occupation and  colonization. Thank you.
48. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much. All of us will pray for peace. Now we have come to the end of our meeting today. I  wish you a pleasant evening and a good dinner. We shall meet tomorrow morning at 10 o’clock for our next plenary  meeting. Thank you all very much. The meeting stands adjourned.