571    Vingt et unième séance plénière
3 novembre 2001 à 10 h.30  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  Twenty-first plenary meeting
572  RAPPORT DU GROUPE DE RÉDACTION SUR LE POINT 3.1 : EXAMEN ET ADOPTION DU PROJET   DE STRATÉGIE À MOYEN TERME POUR 2002-2007 ET PRÉPARATION DU PROJET DE PROGRAMME   ET DE BUDGET POUR 2004-2005  REPORT OF THE DRAFTING GROUP ON ITEM 3.1: CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE DRAFT  MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY 2002-2007 AND PREPARATION OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FOR 2004-2005.  INFORME DEL GRUPO DE REDACCIÓN SOBRE EL PUNTO 3.1: EXAMEN Y APROBACIÓN   DEL PROYECTO DE ESTRATEGIA A PLAZO MEDIO PARA 2002-2007 Y PREPARACIÓN DEL PROYECTO  DE PROGRAMA Y PRESUPUESTO PARA 2004-2005  ДОКЛАД ГРУППЫ РЕДАКТИРОВАНИЯ ПО ПУНКТУ 3.1: РАССМОТРЕНИЕ И УТВЕРЖДЕНИЕ ПРОЕКТА  СРЕДНЕСРОЧНОЙ СТРАТЕГИИ НА 2002-2007 ГГ. И ПОДГОТОВКА ПРОЕКТА ПРОГРАММЫ И  БЮДЖЕТА НА 2004-2005 ГГ.  א א:٣,١א א א א א ،٢٠٠٧−٢٠٠٢א א א א ٢٠٠٥−٢٠٠٤א   起草小组关于项目 3.1 的报告：审议和通过《2002—2007 年中期战略》和《2004—2005 年计划与预算草案》的 编制工作
1.1 The PRESIDENT:    Good morning, dear friends, distinguished colleagues. May I ask you to take your seats, please.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ١,٢ א  .א
(1.2) (Traduit de l'arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu, le Clément, le Miséricordieux.  (The President continues in English)
1.3 Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to declare open the twenty-first plenary meeting  of the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
1.4 This last plenary meeting will be devoted to the examination and adoption of the reports of the Drafting Group  on item 3.1 (31 C/4 and 31 C/PLEN/DR.2) and of Commission V (31 C/65 and Addendum and Corrigendum), and  item 4.4, “Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2002-2003” (31 C/52). We shall start with the examination of  the report of the Drafting Group. As I mentioned, the relevant documents are documents 31 C/4 and 31 C/PLEN/DR.2. I  therefore invite the distinguished Chairperson of the Drafting Group to take the floor.
2.1 Mr AGNAÏEFF (Canada), Chairperson of the Drafting Group on item 3.1:   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, in my capacity as Chairperson of the Drafting Group on the Medium-Term Strategy 2002-2007
(31 C/4) I have the honour to submit to you a brief report on the Group’s deliberations and to submit to the plenary for  adoption the draft resolution contained in document 31 C/PLEN/DR.2. The Drafting Group was composed of the  following 18 Member States: Algeria, Benin, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Czech Republic, Costa Rica, Germany, India,  Japan, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Russian Federation, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Kingdom. It  held five working meetings and carried out its work on the basis of its mandate as defined in paragraph 30 of document
31 C/2. As an open-ended group it also benefited from the participation of various other Member States, which made  valuable contributions to our deliberations.
2.2 The draft resolution before you consists of three sections and one annex. The Drafting Group elaborated this  draft resolution on the basis of a draft text submitted by the Director-General in document 31 C/4 Add., prepared in  response to the decision of the Executive Board contained in document 31 C/11. It also duly took into consideration the  entirety of the recommendations of the Executive Board on document 31 C/4 as contained in document 31 C/11 and it  followed the deliberations of the different commissions on item 3.1 pertaining to the Medium-Term Strategy so as to  reflect any pertinent developments or recommendations.
2.3 Furthermore, the Drafting Group examined in detail a total of nine draft resolutions (31 C/4 DR.1 to 9) on  document 31 C/4 submitted by Member States and referred directly to the Drafting Group in accordance with the  decision of the General Conference. The Drafting Group decided to consolidate the substance of all draft resolutions it  considered appropriate for integration into document 31 C/4 in a single recommendation, which is annexed to the draft  resolution before you.
2.4 Let me now briefly review how the Drafting Group dealt with the various draft resolutions: element 1 in the  Annex addresses the issue raised by document 31 C/4 DR.1, submitted by Jordan, by proposing that reference be made  to the contributions of the international community of non-governmental organizations to sustainable development; one  major contribution is the Earth Charter; element 2 responds to the issue raised by document 31 C/4 DR.2, submitted by  Barbados, concerning small Member States; element 3 pertains to the issue raised by document 31 C/4 DR.3, submitted  by Togo, and the present text suggests inclusion of a reference to the need to encourage a full participation of societies  and all groups of society in scientific and technological developments; element 4 concerns the issue raised by document
31 C/4 DR.5, submitted by India, by proposing to pay particular attention to the global trends in demand and mobility of  science and technology professionals and to explore the feasibility of UNESCO playing a more active part in  intellectual resources management; element 5 refers to the issues raised by documents 31 C/4 DRs 8 and 9, submitted  by Lithuania, relating to the need to promote the dialogue among civilizations in the context of EFA and at all levels of  education.
2.5 Concerning document 31 C/4 DR.4, submitted by India, relating to different modalities for ensuring a  transition to sustainable consumption, the Drafting Group was of the opinion that this issue pertains to the agenda of  other United Nations institutions and mechanisms, in particular the Commission on Sustainable Development, and  therefore did not judge it appropriate to reflect its content in the draft resolution before you.
2.6 In regard to document 31 C/4 DR.6, submitted by Croatia and concerning the use of Esperanto, the Drafting  Group considered that this issue was well covered by paragraph 36 of the recommendation of the Executive Board on  draft document 31 C/4.
2.7 Finally, in regard to document 31 C/4 DR.7, submitted by Guinea-Bissau, the Drafting Group was of the  opinion that the recommendation made in that draft resolution – notably that Member States should place in all schools  a plaque bearing the first paragraph of the Preamble to the Constitution of UNESCO – should be brought to the  attention of the plenary but, nevertheless, it considered that, by its very nature, that recommendation was not relevant to  document 31 C/4 as such.
2.8 The three main sections of the draft resolution address the following issues: Section I contains paragraphs of a  general nature providing general orientation; Section II deals with the formal adoption of the Medium-Term Strategy  for 2002-2007 and how the recommendations by the Executive Board and the deliberations at the present session of the  General Conference should be integrated into the final approved text of document 31 C/4; Section III addresses issues  of implementation and follow-up.
2.9 I would like to draw the attention of the plenary to Section III, paragraph 13, according to which the General  Conference “requests the Executive Board to review the procedure followed at the 28th and 31st sessions of the General  Conference with regard to consideration of the C/4 documents and to submit, as appropriate, a pertinent proposal for  future procedure to the General Conference at its 32nd session”.
2.10 This paragraph was included by the Drafting Group since some questions were raised in the course of its work  concerning that procedure, whereby the Drafting Group was authorized to take up directly draft resolutions referred to it  under item 3.1, without their prior consideration by a commission, and to include pertinent recommendations in the  draft resolution on item 3.1. As you will recall, I have twice brought this issue to the attention of the General Committee  and I was gratified to see our procedure validated both times. Nevertheless, it is clear that a more specific procedure  may have to be articulated for the future in order to avoid procedural discussions or discussions on issues related to the  mandate of the Group.
2.11 Last, but not least, I would like to thank all the members of the Drafting Group, who made important  contributions and who facilitated the work of the Group, which was conducted in a most congenial atmosphere. Let me  also thank the representative of the Director-General, the members of the Secretariat and all the staff who provided  conference services in such an efficient manner.
2.12 With these remarks I wish to commend the draft resolution contained in document 31 C/PLEN/DR.2 for your  approval. Thank you.
3. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Agnaïeff. I would like to congratulate you and all members of your Group for the  excellent work accomplished. Are there any comments from the floor? The distinguished delegate of Barbados has the  floor.
4. Ms PHILLIPS (Barbados):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, my comments are specifically on the draft resolution itself rather than  on the content of the oral report. Are we dealing now with the draft resolution?
5. The PRESIDENT:   I give the floor to Mr Agnaïeff to answer your question.
6. M. AGNAÏEFF (Canada), Président du Groupe de rédaction sur le point 3.1 :   Oui, Monsieur le Président, j'ai soumis à l'attention de la plénière, le texte de la résolution qui lui est proposé  d'adopter. C'est donc bien ce texte qu'il s'agit d'examiner.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. Is that clear, Madam?
8. Ms PHILLIPS (Barbados):   Mr President, this delegation refers to 31 C/4 DR.2, submitted by Barbados, and notes that paragraph 2 in the  Annex to the draft resolution before us (31 C/PLEN/DR.2) reads: “to bear in mind the need to facilitate, to the extent  possible, the participation of the small Member States in all UNESCO’s activities”. While we consider that that wording  does address the general concern of small Member States, it does not address the specific subject matter that is the focus  of the draft resolution submitted by Barbados, which pertained to the problem whereby the Caribbean and the Pacific  subregions have had marginal representation on the subsidiary organs of UNESCO over several years. The Member  States of the Caribbean subregion do not all come under the heading of small Member States, which is why our draft  resolution specifically mentioned the Caribbean and the Pacific subregions and small Member States generally. I would,  therefore, wish to submit for consideration a proposed rewording of paragraph 2, which would read as follows: “to bear  in mind the need to facilitate, to the extent possible, the participation of small island developing States and UNESCO  small Member States in all of UNESCO’s activities, paying special attention to the fact that the Caribbean and the  Pacific subregions, in particular, and small States generally account for a large percentage of those countries that have  had marginal representation in the subsidiary organs and intergovernmental bodies of UNESCO for several years and  thereby to seek to identify administrative mechanisms to enable the representation on these bodies so that UNESCO’s  full membership can contribute to the work of these specialized bodies”. The full text of our draft resolution provides  the context for the amendment that I have just proposed. Thank you.
9. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. Mr Agnaïeff, may we hear your clarification of that point?
10. M. AGNAÏEFF (Canada), Président du Groupe de rédaction sur le point 3.1 :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. En fait le Groupe de rédaction avait pour mandat de préparer un projet de  résolution apportant des améliorations à la Stratégie à moyen terme ; or il a été confronté à la difficulté suivante :  plusieurs des projets de résolution qui étaient portés à son attention avaient un caractère opérationnel extrêmement  précis et relevaient beaucoup plus du C/5 que du C/4, qui demeure un document d'orientation générale. D'où notre choix  de traiter de ces projets de résolution de la façon dont nous l'avons fait dans l'annexe, c'est-à-dire en termes  d'orientations générales propres à une stratégie. Cela étant dit, la plénière est évidemment, Monsieur le Président,  souveraine, et je crois que l'amendement qui nous est soumis apporte un degré de précision qui demeure compatible  avec la nature d'une stratégie à moyen terme.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. Distinguished delegate of Barbados, may we have your reaction?
12. Ms PHILLIPS (Barbados):   Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my amendment does provide a certain degree of specificity; it is required  because I would draw attention to the fact that paragraph 8 of the draft resolution before us, namely, 31 C/PLEN/DR.2,  emphasizes that the urgent needs of excluded and vulnerable groups and the most disadvantaged regions and countries  should be clearly addressed in all programme activities. And I think that, in that same spirit, we need to be consistent  and that there is a grouping of the membership of this Organization that is really not contributing to the work of the  specialized bodies of the Organization, these specialized bodies being the subsidiary organs. What is happening is that  some countries, because of budgetary constraints, are either not presenting candidatures or are presenting candidatures  but finding it very difficult to meet representational commitments. So that was the reason for our having submitted our  original draft resolution, as there are specific sub-regions that have been only marginally represented over the years.  Again, if the text of our draft resolution is reviewed it will be seen that it is the Caribbean and the Pacific sub-regions  that have largely been missing from the subsidiary organs of UNESCO for a number of years, and we have asked in that  draft resolution for the Director-General to conduct a study and to report on the findings of that study to the Executive  Board, so that it would be made quite clear to everyone that what we are saying in our draft resolution is indeed true,  and that there is this pattern of very marginal representation by small Member States. What we basically wish to see is  that, once they have been elected by the General Conference and subsidiary bodies, there are mechanisms in place to  help those who do require that assistance to meet their representational commitments. So, while there is some  specificity, I think that this specificity is needed in this case. Thank you.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. Before reacting to your comment we should listen to the distinguished Ambassador of  Australia who has asked for the floor. Ambassador, you have the floor.
14. Mr PEEK (Australia):   Thank you, Mr President. Just very briefly, I would like to support the proposal made by Barbados and I  actually took Mr Agnaïeff’s comments in response to mean that he could accept that amendment himself. In my speech  to plenary, I highlighted the relative neglect of the Pacific countries and in our meeting with the Director-General the  Pacific countries developed that theme a little further. These concerns have been acknowledged and indeed the intention  of trying to do better in the coming biennium has been flagged. This resolution – or this text – actually aims to provide  support for that good intention, and it seems to me that, after three weeks of Conference and several forests of trees,  adding five lines of text to the draft resolution contained in the Annex to 31 C/PLEN/DR.2 is a small price to pay for  looking after these small countries. Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ambassador Musitelli of France.
16. M. MUSITELLI (France) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Compte tenu des explications données par la déléguée de la Barbade et des  commentaires du Président du Groupe de rédaction, la France appuie la proposition de la Barbade. Je vous remercie.
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I now call the Dominican Republic. Madam, you have the floor.
(18) Mme DESPRADEL (République dominicaine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je voulais simplement dire que ma délégation appuie avec  force la proposition de la déléguée de la Barbade. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. I see the distinguished Ambassador of the Russian Federation has asked for the floor. You  have the floor, sir.
(20) M. SIDOROV (Fédération de Russie) (traduit du russe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Russie appuie résolument la proposition de la Barbade. Il faut impérativement  mentionner au paragraphe 2 la situation des Etats membres des Caraïbes et du Pacifique. Je vous remercie beaucoup.
21. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. Distinguished delegate of New Zealand, you have the floor.
22. Mr ZWIMPFER (New Zealand):   Thank you, Mr President. New Zealand would also like to support the proposal by Barbados.
23. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Saint Lucia, you have the floor, sir.
24. Mr THOMAS (Saint Lucia):   Thank you, Mr President. Saint Lucia would also like to support the proposal made by Barbados. Thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished delegate of Jamaica, you have the floor.
26. Ms CAMPBELL (Jamaica):   Mr President, Jamaica, too, would like to support Barbados’ amendment to the text. Thank you.
27. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. If all those wishing to speak intend to support the spirit of the amendment, let us just  accept it, if you agree. Are there any objections? The amendment is adopted. Thank you. I see Barbados is asking to  speak. Madam, you have the floor.
28. Ms PHILLIPS (Barbados):   Thank you, Mr President. I just wished to take the floor to thank all the delegations that supported the  amendment. Thank you very much.
29. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. It seemed that they were thanking you for bringing up the matter. Does anyone else wish to speak?  Venezuela, you have the floor, sir.
(30) M. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Le Venezuela tient à faire observer qu'il avait exprimé son appui à la proposition de la Barbade mais que  l'occasion de prendre la parole ne lui a pas été donnée. Merci beaucoup.
31. The PRESIDENT:   I see we have more support for the support. The delegate of Haiti has the floor.
32.1 M. CHARLES (Haïti) :   Je me réfère au paragraphe 8 de la résolution 31 C/PLEN/DR.2 lu la déléguée de la Barbade, paragraphe qui  dit : "souligne que les besoins urgents des exclus et des groupes vulnérables ainsi que des régions et des pays les plus  défavorisés doivent être clairement pris en compte dans toutes les activités de programme de l'Organisation et qu'il y a  lieu de veiller à ce que les besoins de l'Afrique, des pays les moins avancés, des femmes et des jeunes soient  véritablement intégrés dans l'ensemble des programmes".
32.2 A cet égard, je voudrais faire une observation. Ce n'est pas la première fois que dans nos résolutions, nous  émettons de tels souhaits. Je dis bien souhaits. Mais je crains que, du fait des faibles moyens de l'Organisation - et  j'espère ne pas me tromper en disant que telle en est bien la raison - dans les différents secteurs et divisions, les  problèmes et projets de ces groupes ne soient pas pris en considération comme ils le devraient. Je me demande dans  quelle mesure, quand les programmes sont mis en oeuvre, on tient, de manière vraiment privilégiée, compte des pays les  moins avancés, des femmes et autres groupes prioritaires. Certes, pour la région Afrique, une avancée significative est  faite en ce sens, dans la mesure où il existe un Département Afrique qui est très efficace, et nous en remercions le  Secrétariat. Mais, pour les pays les moins avancés, les femmes et les jeunes, je me demande vraiment dans quelle  mesure les différents secteurs les prennent en compte dans les différents programmes.
32.3 Je m'interroge d'autant plus qu'avec la décentralisation, un problème de coordination vient à se poser. Les fonds  sont décentralisés dans les bureaux régionaux. Mais qui va opérer les choix prioritaires ? Quel pays va bénéficier de tel  programme et quel programme sera destiné de manière privilégiée à tel pays, à tel groupe ? Il y a là un problème de  mécanisme de coordination qui reste à régler si nous voulons garantir que l'inclusion de pareilles dispositions dans un  projet de résolution ait une quelconque efficacité. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
33. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Your explanation has been recorded and I am sure the Director-General  will take care of the matter. Thank you very much. Does any other speaker wish to take the floor? Then may I consider  that the plenary takes note of the report of the Drafting Group and approves the resolution contained in document
31 C/PLEN/DR.2 as amended? It is so decided.
(35.1) M. AL-MASHAT (Iraq), Président de la Commission V (traduit de l'arabe) :   Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et  Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'ai l'honneur et le plaisir de vous présenter brièvement le rapport de la  Commission V (31 C/65 et Add. et Corr.). Au nom de mon pays, la République d'Iraq, que je représente à l'UNESCO, je  voudrais remercier la Conférence générale de la confiance qu'elle m'a accordée en m'élisant pour la deuxième fois  consécutive à la présidence de cette importante commission.  Les vice-présidents élus pour la Commission V ont été :  M. Daniel Malbert (France), M. Ludovit Stanislav Molnar (Slovaquie), M. Adolfo Castells (Uruguay), M. Mohammed  Sheya (République-Unie de Tanzanie) ; M. Laurence Zwimpfer (Nouvelle-Zélande) a été élu rapporteur. Je voudrais tout  d'abord remercier les membres du Bureau de la Commission qui m'ont apporté leur soutien constant et qui ont beaucoup  facilité ma tâche. Je tiens en particulier à rendre hommage à la compétence du rapporteur, M. Laurence Zwimpfer  (Nouvelle-Zélande). Je voudrais aussi remercier le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura et ses représentants, M. Abdul  Waheed Khan, Mme Françoise Rivière et Mme Milagros Del Corral, et tous leurs collaborateurs, pour leur généreuse  contribution à nos travaux. J'adresse mes remerciements particuliers aux conseillers juridiques, MM. Yusuf et Donaldson,  pour leur collaboration au cours des débats. Je voudrais également exprimer ma reconnaissance au Secrétaire de la  Commission V, M. Axel Plathe, et à son équipe pour leur efficacité et leur sérieux, et remercier les traducteurs, les  interprètes et tous les techniciens, qui nous ont aidés dans notre travail.
(35.2) Permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, d'appeler l'attention des participants à cette séance plénière sur le haut  niveau des interventions des délégations des Etats membres et des organisations non gouvernementales qui ont participé à  nos débats. Je tiens aussi à signaler l'esprit de concorde et la compréhension mutuelle qui ont prévalu durant les travaux de  la Commission V. L'excellente ambiance de travail nous a permis d'achever l'examen de tous les points que la Conférence  générale nous avait confiés, même si nous avons dû prolonger la séance du mercredi 31 octobre 2001 et tenir une sixième  séance supplémentaire le 1er novembre 2001.
(35.3) Monsieur le Président, je vais maintenant résumer le contenu des trois débats de la Commission V, en soulignant  les points clés de nos discussions. Le premier débat de la Commission concernait l'examen du Projet de stratégie à moyen  terme pour 2002-2007 (31 C/4). Les délégués ont exprimé leur soutien unanime aux orientations proposées pour le Secteur  de la communication et de l'information dans la stratégie. Il a été indiqué que ce Secteur constituait un baromètre de la  santé de l'UNESCO. La structure et la présentation de l'information dans le document relatif à la stratégie ont suscité les  louanges quasi unanimes des délégués. La présentation claire de résultats quantifiés permet de mesurer les progrès et d'en  faire état de manière plus cohérente. Le débat a abouti à un consensus général sur l'importance vitale et le rôle crucial de la  communication et de l'information dans tous les domaines relevant du mandat de l'UNESCO. Les délégués ont apporté un  large soutien à l'idée de faire de "la contribution des technologies de l'information et de la communication au  développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture et à la construction d'une société du savoir" l'un des deux  grands thèmes transversaux. La Commission a reconnu le bien-fondé de l'observation figurant dans le projet de stratégie  selon laquelle il ne peut y avoir d'information pour tous sans éducation pour tous. Les délégations ont souligné que  l'UNESCO devait assumer un rôle de chef de file dans l'emploi des TIC, aussi bien au sein du Secrétariat qu'auprès de ses  partenaires. L'UNESCO se doit d'appliquer les techniques qu'elle encourage. L'Organisation doit aussi encourager le débat  sur les aspects éthiques de l'utilisation des technologies de l'information et de la communication et en même temps  continuer à étudier des solutions concrètes et novatrices au moyen de projets pilotes. Les délégués ont été unanimes à  appuyer l'objectif consistant à assurer pour tous l'accès aux TIC et à l'information, en particulier dans le domaine public.  Certains ont aussi mentionné l'importance d'un usage loyal et d'exemptions légales dans la mise en place d'une adaptation  équilibrée du droit d'auteur à l'environnement électronique. Les délégués ont évoqué la "fracture numérique" en tant que  problème qui devait retenir prioritairement l'attention tout au long de la période visée par la Stratégie à moyen terme. Un  soutien vigoureux a été manifesté, en particulier par les pays en développement, en faveur du Programme international pour  le développement de la communication (PIDC). Toutefois, on s'est inquiété de la diminution des ressources et de la  nécessité de réduire de nombreux projets. De nouveaux efforts s'imposent si l'on veut assurer le niveau de financement  nécessaire pour répondre à la demande croissante d'assistance au développement dans le domaine des communications.  L'avis a souvent été exprimé que l'UNESCO ne devait pas se concentrer sur les TIC à l'exclusion des médias traditionnels  (presse écrite, radio et télévision). On a fait valoir que le nombre d'utilisateurs de l'Internet ne devrait pas atteindre le  milliard avant 2005, mais qu'un nombre bien plus élevé de personnes sont déjà "connectées" à la société de l'information  par la presse écrite et par la radio. De nombreux délégués sont intervenus avec force en faveur de la radiotélévision de  service public et ont instamment demandé à l'UNESCO d'accorder une attention particulière à l'amélioration des  programmes endogènes produits par des pays en développement. Les délégués ont appuyé le nouveau programme
582  Information pour tous et la mise en place du nouveau Conseil intergouvernemental. La participation active, et dès le début,  des principaux intervenants du secteur privé, a été encouragée. Quelques délégués ont demandé que l'on instaure une  coopération et une interaction plus étroites entre le PIDC et le nouveau programme Information pour tous, notant que les  distinctions entre la communication et l'information sont de plus en plus floues. Les délégués ont approuvé l'accent mis sur  les télécentres et les centres communautaires multimédias, y compris ceux qui font intervenir les radios communautaires.  On a insisté sur la nécessité de prévoir d'urgence des mécanismes appropriés afin de conserver et protéger les matériels  numériques. L'initiative proposée par l'UNESCO de créer un portail de la connaissance a reçu un large soutien, mais il  convient de suivre attentivement les initiatives analogues telles que le Portail pour le développement de la Banque  mondiale, pour éviter le chevauchement des efforts. Les délégués ont reconnu les possibilités offertes par les TIC pour  améliorer la production locale de programmes audiovisuels, la radiotélévision locale et d'autres formes de création de  contenus. Les TIC ouvrent des perspectives nouvelles très intéressantes pour remédier au déséquilibre linguistique actuel  des médias imprimés et électroniques. De nouveaux logiciels de reconnaissance vocale, de traduction et de conversion de  texte en parole (en plusieurs langues) offrent de nouvelles possibilités très intéressantes. Toutefois, comme les progrès de  l'Internet le montrent à ce jour, l'existence de fonctions multilingues ne suffit pas. Une vigilance et un soutien constants  seront nécessaires. Au cours du débat, il a été fait mention du concept de "fracture linguistique", qui empêche actuellement  de nombreuses communautés d'utiliser les TIC. Les délégués ont noté que des efforts considérables avaient été investis  dans des forums, conférences et débats sur l'infoéthique pendant l'exercice biennal en cours et ont estimé qu'il était temps  de passer à l'action. Les questions d'éthique qui se posent actuellement, en particulier du fait de l'Internet, sont difficiles à  cerner ; les délégués ont estimé que ces questions étaient au coeur de la mission de l'UNESCO, et ils ont souhaité que des  ressources adéquates leur soient allouées à chaque exercice biennal afin de garantir que l'action entreprise à ce sujet se  poursuive sur sa lancée et que l'UNESCO assume un rôle de chef de file dans le domaine de l'éthique.
(35.4) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, ceci m'amène à la fin de la première partie de mon rapport. Je  voudrais maintenant passer à un certain nombre d'observations concernant le deuxième débat de la Commission V. Le  deuxième débat de la Commission a porté sur le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2002-2003 et sur divers projets de  résolution présentés par les Etats membres. Le programme V a mobilisé une part du budget total de l'UNESCO plus  importante que les années précédentes, mais le niveau de financement est encore bien inférieur aux montants requis pour  atteindre tous les résultats escomptés. Certains délégués ont également noté que la part du budget allouée aux divers  programmes ne correspondait pas très bien aux résultats escomptés. En particulier, certains ont estimé que trop de  ressources étaient absorbées par les TIC, dont l'efficacité reste à prouver, tandis que le budget des médias traditionnels, qui  ont fait leurs preuves, a subi des réductions. Les délégués ont réagi avec intérêt et enthousiasme aux propositions figurant  dans le programme. Ils se sont félicités presque unanimement de la façon dont le programme V avait été structuré et  présenté dans le document 31 C/5. Comme l'a dit un délégué : "C'est le meilleur C/5 élaboré depuis 15 ans !".
(35.5) Je voudrais maintenant résumer les points essentiels concernant chacun des domaines du programme et axes  d'action. Les délégués attendent avec intérêt la création du nouveau Conseil intergouvernemental du programme  Information pour tous. Des délégués ont proposé que l'on envisage sérieusement d'intégrer le programme Information pour  tous dans le PIDC afin de mettre en place un seul conseil intergouvernemental dans le Secteur de la communication et de  l'information. Comme pour le débat sur la Stratégie à moyen terme, la plupart des délégués ont fait référence d'une manière  ou d'une autre à la fracture numérique. C'est un défi auquel sont confrontées toutes les nations aujourd'hui, mais qui est  particulièrement grave dans les pays en développement. La priorité devrait être accordée au développement des  communications dans ces pays, en particulier de l'Internet. On a reconnu que l'Internet donne des moyens d'agir à la société  civile et permet une véritable participation. On a évoqué non seulement le fossé dû au manque d'accès aux TIC mais aussi  la fracture linguistique. La prépondérance de matériels en langue anglaise sur l'Internet illustre à quel point cette fracture  est profonde. La véritable fracture à laquelle nous sommes donc confrontés est une fracture numérique humaine. Des  délégués ont souhaité qu'une attention particulière soit accordée à certains groupes ethniques et groupes d'âge. Les délégués  ont estimé que de réels progrès avaient été faits pour clarifier le concept de domaine public, mais qu'il fallait poursuivre  cette tâche. Il importe également de ne pas limiter ces travaux au domaine numérique ; les bibliothèques et les archives ont  encore un rôle très important à jouer. L'accès des jeunes à l'information et leur formation devrait rester une priorité. Les  délégués ont exprimé leur vif soutien à la création d'un portail mondial, et ont demandé que l'on veille à répondre aux  besoins des pays les moins avancés. Le Sommet mondial sur la société de l'information constitue manifestement un axe  d'action pour de nombreuses délégations dans les deux prochaines années. Plusieurs pays ont indiqué qu'ils étaient prêts à  accueillir des réunions et des forums régionaux pour préparer ce Sommet. Les délégués ont souligné qu'il importait de  parvenir à un consensus sur le multilinguisme et sur l'éthique relative au cyberespace, afin de définir des positions claires à  présenter au Sommet. L'aptitude de nombreux pays à participer efficacement à la société du savoir est aujourd'hui  gravement compromise par l'absence d'infrastructures physiques et d'infostructures d'appui. Cela a été souligné par les  délégués d'Afrique en particulier, où l'accès à des ordinateurs et des téléphones est très limité. Cependant, malgré d'énormes  obstacles physiques, économiques et liés à la formation, les délégués se sont montrés optimistes quant aux possibilités  offertes et ont déclaré faire des progrès avec les ressources dont ils disposent. De nombreuses nations ont exprimé leur  gratitude à l'UNESCO pour le soutien pratique qu'elles ont reçu. Toutefois, attendu que 5 % seulement de la population  mondiale ont accès à l'Internet, le défi auquel ces nations doivent faire face est énorme. Parallèlement, les délégués ont noté  que l'UNESCO devait continuer à soutenir l'emploi de l'Internet pour promouvoir une communication efficace dans tous les  domaines du programme. De nombreux délégués ont encouragé l'UNESCO à continuer à accorder un soutien aux médias  traditionnels, notamment les journaux et les services publics de radiotélévision. Toutefois, plusieurs délégués ont exprimé  leur préoccupation au sujet de la perte d'éléments du patrimoine, en particulier ceux créés sous forme numérique, par suite  d'un manque d'attention pour la préservation numérique. On s'est inquiété également du fait que les programmes phares tels  que "Mémoire du monde" ne sont pas reconnus de façon adéquate dans le Projet de programme. Un certain nombre de  délégués ont parlé de la nécessité de poursuivre le développement des capacités humaines dans les pays qui en ont le plus  besoin. De nombreux délégués ont demandé qu'un soutien soit accordé à des programmes de formation pour les spécialistes
583  de la communication et de l'information. De plus, "l'alphabétisation de demain" implique l'acquisition de compétences dans  le domaine des TIC et cela doit devenir une priorité dans les systèmes d'enseignement de tous les Etats membres. De  nombreux délégués ont réaffirmé leur attachement aux concepts de liberté d'expression, de démocratie et de paix, qui sont  au coeur même du mandat de l'UNESCO. La Journée mondiale de la liberté de la presse reste une bonne occasion de faire  connaître les activités de l'UNESCO. Le rôle important des médias indépendants a été reconnu.
(35.6) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je passe maintenant au troisième débat de la Commission. Ce  débat a porté sur le projet de recommandation sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès universel au  cyberespace. De nombreux délégués ont demandé que l'UNESCO assume un rôle moteur dans ce très important débat.  Toutefois, certains ont demandé à nouveau que les modifications proposées dans le document 31 C/25 répondent bien aux  préoccupations des autres organisations internationales intéressées ; ils ont estimé que la crédibilité de l'UNESCO pourrait  être mise en doute en l'absence de larges consultations, en particulier sur les dispositions relatives au droit d'auteur. De  nombreux délégués se sont déclarés très favorables à l'adoption d'une version du projet de recommandation à la présente  session de la Conférence générale afin qu'un mandat fort soit donné à l'UNESCO en vue du Sommet mondial sur la société  de l'information en 2003. L'adoption de cette recommandation pourrait être l'une des plus importantes contributions de  l'UNESCO à la réduction de la fracture numérique. Le manque de délimitation claire de l'information relevant du domaine  public est une importante cause de préoccupation pour de nombreux délégués. Cette question est étroitement liée à celle du  droit d'auteur, qui relève de la responsabilité d'autres organisations internationales. Certaines délégations ont proposé la  création d'un groupe de travail qui se réunirait pendant la présente session de la Conférence générale et serait chargé  d'examiner les amendements proposés par le Secrétariat et de préparer un texte modifié à soumettre à la Commission pour  examen. Les propositions concernant le multilinguisme ont été appuyées par tous les délégués ; certains ont estimé que  l'UNESCO pourrait contribuer à relever le défi consistant à inclure davantage de langues sur l'Internet. Un certain nombre  de pays ont estimé qu'il fallait poursuivre le travail sur ce projet de recommandation pour dépasser le stade de l'énumération  des problèmes et proposer des solutions et des principes directeurs en vue de l'exécution. Certains délégués ont souligné  qu'il serait prudent que l'UNESCO n'outrepasse pas son mandat, mais ont reconnu qu'il est difficile de fixer des limites  lorsque les intérêts sont opposés. Un certain nombre de délégués ont proposé que l'on soumette le projet de  recommandation au nouveau Conseil intergouvernemental pour le programme Information pour tous en lui demandant  d'élaborer un ensemble de recommandations plus clair. Un certain nombre de délégués ont demandé instamment que  l'UNESCO s'en remette aux conventions existantes et évite de répéter ces textes. Les délégués ont fait de nombreuses  suggestions concernant les aspects du projet de recommandation que l'on pourrait améliorer, notamment en mettant moins  l'accent sur les questions techniques, en accordant plus d'attention aux obstacles sociaux, culturels, économiques et  éducatifs et en faisant mention des langues des populations autochtones. De nombreux délégués ont insisté sur la nécessité  de progresser sur cette question afin que la Commission parvienne à un consensus à cette séance ; leurs préoccupations  étaient les suivantes : répondre à la demande exprimée à sa 29e session en 1997, par la Conférence générale qui avait noté  que cette activité avait déjà occupé deux exercices biennaux ; proposer des lignes directrices aux Etats membres qui  recherchent d'urgence une assistance pour élaborer des politiques nationales ; conserver une position de chef de file dans le  nouveau monde de l'infoéthique (si l'UNESCO ne parvient pas à un consensus, d'autres organisations le feront en adoptant  des recommandations qui ne seront pas forcément conformes aux objectifs de l'UNESCO) ; apporter une contribution  importante au Sommet mondial ; fournir une base à l'initiative B@bel de l'UNESCO. Toutefois, de nombreux délégués  maintenaient des réserves sur cette recommandation estimant qu'ils ne pouvaient l'appuyer, même sous sa forme révisée.  Leurs raisons étaient les suivantes : une insatisfaction quant à son libellé ; l'absence de cohérence du texte ; le manque de  temps pour consulter les experts compétents et les autorités gouvernementales ; des préoccupations concernant la légitimité  de la démarche consultative auprès des Etats membres ; l'insuffisance apparente des consultations avec les parties prenantes  dans d'autres organisations internationales. Il est devenu manifeste au fil du débat et compte tenu des réserves fermes de  nombreux délégués que la Commission ne serait pas en mesure de parvenir à un consensus. Le Directeur général,  M. Koïchiro Matsuura, a estimé qu'il était très important que les délégués parviennent à un consensus. Il s'est engagé à ce  que le Secrétariat déploie de nouveaux efforts pour favoriser le consensus en tâchant de mieux formuler le projet de  recommandation. Il a proposé qu'un nouveau texte soit élaboré lors d'une nouvelle réunion d'experts, qui serait organisée  dès que possible afin de présenter les résultats de ce travail au Conseil exécutif à sa session prévue au premier semestre de
2002. Les délégués ont appuyé à l'unanimité la proposition du Directeur général, moyennant les modifications suivantes :  les résultats seraient présentés à la 165e session du Conseil exécutif, qui se tiendrait vers la fin de 2002 ; le groupe d'experts  (catégorie 6) se réunirait dès que possible au premier semestre de 2002 ; d'autres consultations devraient avoir lieu avec  d'autres organisations internationales et le secteur privé ; tous les Etats membres devraient être invités à faire des  observations par écrit sur le texte de la révision 2 de l'annexe II du projet de recommandation ; le nouveau Conseil  intergouvernemental du programme Information pour tous devrait jouer le rôle de chef de file et participer pleinement à la  révision du projet de recommandation.
(35.7) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, j'ai ainsi terminé mon rapport oral ; permettez-moi maintenant,  Monsieur le Président, de faire quelques remarques supplémentaires : 63. Je voudrais répéter ici en séance plénière une  partie de ce que j'ai dit à l'ouverture des travaux de la Commission V. Considérant l'importance des ambitions de  l'UNESCO et des tâches assignées par les Etats membres à l'Organisation dans le domaine de la communication et de  l'information, les crédits alloués au grand programme V sont loin d'être suffisants. Monsieur le Président, à la clôture de la
30e session de la Conférence générale il y a deux ans, ici, dans cette même salle, j'ai exprimé le regret qu'un débat sur des  questions aussi importantes que la communication et l'information ait été programmé à une date si tardive dans le  calendrier de la Conférence générale. J'avais alors lancé un appel au Conseil exécutif pour qu'il programme ce débat  beaucoup plus tôt au cours de la présente session. Malgré cet appel, les travaux de notre Commission cette année ont été  placés encore plus tard dans le calendrier, ce qui a créé de très fortes tensions et nécessité une séance prolongée  supplémentaire. Néanmoins, nous avons été en mesure d'achever nos travaux à temps, grâce à l'efficacité et au dévouement  des membres de la Commission V. Toutefois, je voudrais à nouveau demander instamment au Conseil exécutif par votre
584  intermédiaire, Monsieur le Président, d'élaborer le calendrier des travaux de la 32e session de la Conférence générale de  manière à ce que la communication et l'information, qui sont un élément vital du programme de l'UNESCO, soient  examinées de manière satisfaisante afin que la Conférence générale dans son ensemble puisse bénéficier des résultats du  débat. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie de votre attention.   :א ٣٦,١ א  ، א ،  .א
(36.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci beaucoup, Excellence, pour votre bonne présentation.  (The President continues in English)
36.2 Excellency, allow me to congratulate you on your excellent report. I know that Commission V had a very hard  task to accomplish and I therefore congratulate you and all members of your Commission for this job well done. I know  that you are an expert on satellites and I hope that in this era of communication, after having all these discussions about  how we can disseminate the message of UNESCO through the Courier or through other means we can finally move  towards having a UNESCO satellite. Now, before proceeding to adopt our decisions, I would like to open the floor for  comments. The Ambassador of Canada has the floor.
37. M. HAMEL (Canada) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaitais simplement signaler un oubli dans le document 31 C/65 Add. et  Corr. A la séance d'hier il avait en effet été décidé d'apporter une légère correction au paragraphe 33 du document
31 C/65. A l'avant-dernière ligne de ce paragraphe, les mots "examinés par" avaient été remplacés par "soumis à". Dans  la version anglaise, l'expression "examined by" avait été remplacée par "submitted to". Je souhaiterais que cette  correction soit prise en compte dans le texte définitif du Rapport. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
38. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, your Excellency, it will be included. I call the distinguished Ambassador of France. Ambassador,  you have the floor.
39. M. MUSITELLI (France) :   Monsieur le Président, mon ami l'ambassadeur du Canada m'a ôté les mots de la bouche. Je m'apprêtais à  intervenir sur le même point. Toutefois, Monsieur le Président, je souhaiterais avec votre permission prendre la parole  après l'adoption du Rapport. Je vous remercie.
40. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. The document will be corrected. I call the distinguished Ambassador of Saudi Arabia.  You have the floor, sir.  א ٤١ א(א א  ):א א  א.א، א א.א א א ، א א ، א א אא א א  .א.א
(41) M. AL-ATHEL (Arabie saoudite) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous remercions S.E. M. Al-Mashat pour son excellent rapport. Afin de  promouvoir le rôle de l'UNESCO dans le domaine de la mondialisation de la solidarité humaine, nous proposons que l'on  définisse pour le programme Information pour tous des critères de réussite fondés d'abord sur la capacité du programme  d'augmenter le nombre des utilisateurs de l'Internet dans le monde, et ensuite sur sa capacité d'augmenter le nombre de  langues utilisées sur l'Internet. Merci.   :א ٤٢,١ א   .א،
(42.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Excellence.
585  (The President continues in English)
(43) M. AL-MASHAT (Iraq) (Président de la Commission V) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je remercie le délégué de l'Arabie saoudite, et j'estime que sa remarque est  judicieuse ; c'est pourquoi elle sera ajoutée aux remarques à soumettre au Conseil intergouvernemental du programme  Information pour tous.
44. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. It will be included. I call the distinguished Ambassador of the United Kingdom.  Mr Stanton, you have the floor.
45. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom):   Thank you, sir. I would like to propose one small amendment to the text in paragraph 34, that is to say, in  respect of item 8.5. If we look at paragraph 3 of the draft resolution we see a reference here to encouraging  multilingualism and cultural diversity on global information networks. Let me say that this matter is substantially about  multilingualism. Cultural diversity is a subject in itself, but I have no problem with a reference in this text to cultural  diversity provided we are careful about the language we use. We need to bear in mind that in document 31 C/4 we have  referred to the important question of diversity with very careful language – the relevant strategic objective for the  Communication and Information Sector in that document refers to promoting the expression of pluralism and cultural  diversity in the media and world information networks. Therefore, sir, I would like to propose that in this particular  paragraph, paragraph 3, we should refer to encouraging multilingualism and the expression of cultural diversity. I think  it is very important that we should not, as such, in this text refer to encouraging cultural diversity, which has a number  of connotations. Referring to encouraging the expression of cultural diversity is entirely in line with our strategic  objectives, and I think is what was intended by those who recommended this text. Thank you.
46. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Before we come to reactions to your proposal, I would like to invite the  distinguished Ambassador of Brazil to take the floor.
47. Mr VARGAS (Brazil):   Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to praise the comprehensive, clear and wise  considerations advanced by Ambassador Al-Mashat in presenting his excellent report. I think it will be an important  instrument to guide UNESCO’s actions in this field in the next few years. In our view, this field could easily be  considered to be, in UNESCO’s jargon, transverse, in the sense that it will affect all other UNESCO activities in  fulfilling the Organization’s mandate. How else could one overcome the barriers of communication, for which we now  have the techniques, even though they are not as equally accessible to all as one would have wished. This disparity is  called the digital divide. At this juncture we should call on UNESCO to support all the efforts that are being made to  reduce this digital divide through the development of cheaper means of communication, particularly through the use of  satellites, a field in which the Chairperson of Commission V is a well-known world specialist. I would like to draw  attention to the importance of automatic translation technology, using the Internet as a means of overcoming the  language barrier. Although it is so far much less developed than the Internet itself, a communication technology  covering the whole spectrum of means – television, radio and also the written word – is possible. In regard to this  obstacle, I would very much like to support the remarks and the proposal by Ambassador Stanton. I think there is a  danger of confusing the question of promoting a better knowledge of the culture through the language and promoting  multilingualism itself. It might be construed as a divide rather than a means of overcoming our language  communication difficulties while maintaining the originality and the richness of the languages themselves. In other  words, one should support strongly all statements and actions that facilitate the access of one language to another  through the Internet, the use of which is now being proposed, but at the same time we should remember that the  promotion of cultural diversity should not cause division, which we all want to avoid. Thank you very much.
48. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Professor Vargas. I now invite the distinguished Ambassador of the Russian Federation to take the  floor.
(49) M. SIDOROV (Fédération de Russie) (traduit du russe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais moi aussi remercier sincèrement M. Al-Mashat et M. Khan, sous- directeur général, d'avoir fait en sorte que ces questions soient traitées en profondeur au sein de la cinquième Commission.  Je n'ai qu'une brève remarque à faire. Nous sommes saisis d'un projet de résolution très important (31 C/DR.79), présenté  par les Pays-Bas, sur la préservation du patrimoine numérique. A mon avis, c'est là un document remarquable et de très  grande portée, que la Russie a activement soutenu au sein de la Commission. Ce que je voudrais que l'on ajoute, c'est donc  que ce projet a été présenté par les Pays-Bas et appuyé par la Fédération de Russie. Je demande que cette mention figure  dans le texte de la résolution. Je vous remercie.
50. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I call the distinguished delegate of Kuwait. You have the floor, sir.   ):א(אא ٥١ א  א ،.א، א ، א א א א א א א א א א  .א.א
(51) M. AL-SHATTI (Koweït) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais appuyer l'amendement proposé par l'ambassadeur du Royaume-Uni,  M. Stanton, parce qu'il définit bien le rôle des réseaux d'information en matière de liberté d'expression, de mise en valeur  des caractéristiques des cultures, et d'utilisation des langues. Merci.
52. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I see the Ambassador of the Dominican Republic wishes to speak. You have the floor  Madam.
(53) Mme DESPRADEL (République dominicaine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je me suis justement entretenue en privé avec M. l'ambassadeur Stanton  parce qu'il y avait dans les versions espagnole et française du texte une expression qui ne me semblait pas très claire et qui  était "encourager et protéger" ... Merci.
54. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you Madam. I call the distinguished delegate of Spain. You have the floor, sir.
(55) M. VILLAR (Espagne) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voulais simplement dire que ma délégation appuie la proposition d'amendement  présentée par M. Stanton, du Royaume-Uni. Merci beaucoup.   :א ٥٦ א  ، א ،  .א
(56) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Monsieur le délégué du Sénégal, veuillez prendre la parole.
57. M. BA (Sénégal) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le président. Je voudrais tout d'abord m'associer aux félicitations qui ont été  adressées à S. E. M. l'ambassadeur d'Iraq pour l'excellent travail accompli sous sa direction par la Commission V.
587  Néanmoins, l'amendement que vient de proposer S. E. M. l'ambassadeur du Royaume-Uni me paraît d'une pertinence  telle que son adoption s'impose. A mon sens, en effet, la diversité culturelle n'a pas lieu d'être encouragée en soi. Elle  existe, un point c'est tout. Il s'agit plutôt de l'admettre, de l'accepter, donc de permettre son expression. Par conséquent,  ma délégation soutient sans réserve l'amendement du Royaume-Uni. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
58. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Distinguished Ambassador of the Netherlands, you have the floor.
59. Mr VAN VLIET (Netherlands):   Thank you, Mr President. I just want to state that the Netherlands supports the caution expressed by  Ambassador Stanton and we therefore support the amendment proposed by him. Thank you very much.
60. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Any other speaker? I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Venezuela.
(61) M. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je tiens aussi à signaler que ma délégation souscrit à l'observation de  l'honorable délégué du Royaume-Uni et je me permettrai de proposer, pour le texte espagnol, la formule suivante :  "el respeto de la diversidad cultural en las redes mundiales de información". Merci, Monsieur le Président.
62. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you for the clarification for the Spanish version. I give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria.
63. Mr ENOKURA (Nigeria):   Thank you, Mr President. Just to say that Nigeria fully endorses and supports the proposal of the distinguished  Ambassador of the United Kingdom. Thank you.
64. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. It seems that we have a very good supportive spirit in our room today. Ambassador Al-Mashat, do  you have anything to add?  א ٦٥,١ א(א (א א)  ):א א  א.א، א א.א א א א א  .א
(65.1) M. AL-MASHAT (Iraq) (Président de la Commission V) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Moi aussi, j'estime que cela augmenterait la précision des positions à adopter.  Permettez-moi donc de vous lire en anglais le paragraphe évoqué par le délégué du Royaume-Uni.  (Mr Al-Mashat continues in English)
65.2 “Reiterate its conviction that UNESCO should have a leading international role in promoting access to public  domain information and encouraging multilingualism and the expression of cultural diversity on global information  networks.”
66. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Then may I suggest that the plenary approve by consensus the amendment suggested by  Ambassador Stanton and read out by Ambassador Al-Mashat? It is so decided. I call the distinguished delegate of  Bolivia.
(67) M. MERCADO (Bolivie) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, j'ai pris note de la nouvelle formulation dont ce paragraphe est en train de faire l'objet.  Cependant, à moins d'avoir fait preuve d'une grande inattention, il me semble que l'importante suggestion de notre collègue  du Venezuela tendant à ce que figure en espagnol l'équivalent de ce que l'on souhaite exprimer dans les versions anglaise et  française du texte, n'a pas été prise en compte. Merci.
68. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you for the comments. I think the suggestion by our distinguished colleague from Venezuela will be  included. May I now consider that the plenary takes note of the report of Commission V and approves the resolutions,  as amended, proposed therein. It is so decided. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the distinguished  Ambassador of France, who has expressed the wish to speak after the adoption of the report. You have the floor,  Ambassador.
69.1 M. MUSITELLI (France) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaitais prendre la parole après l'adoption du rapport de la  Commission V pour faire quelques observations qui dépassent en fait le cadre des questions confiées à l'examen de cette  Commission. Mes observations portent sur les instruments normatifs que nous avons adoptés au cours de cette session.  Adoptés ou examinés, devrais-je dire, puisque l'un, la Convention sur le patrimoine culturel subaquatique, a été adopté  hier, à l'issue d'un vote, l'autre, la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle, a été adopté par consensus, la troisième étant la  Recommandation sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et l'accès universel au cyberespace, que nous n'avons  pas pu, malheureusement, adopter aujourd'hui.
69.2 La question que je pose est celle-ci : n'y avait-il pas une relation assez étroite entre la façon dont nous avons ou  n'avons pas adopté tel ou tel instrument et la procédure d'élaboration de cet instrument que nous avons choisie. Je  voudrais sur ce point engager le Secrétariat, mais aussi les Etats membres, à réfléchir sur ce que devraient être  précisément les méthodes d'élaboration des instruments juridiques, puisqu'il apparaît qu'un des grands souhaits  exprimés par la Conférence générale à cette session, c'est que l'UNESCO s'engage de façon résolue dans le  renforcement de son activité normative, orientation que, pour sa part, la France appuie avec beaucoup de fermeté.
69.3 Si l'on regarde d'un peu près comment les choses se sont passées pour ces trois instruments juridiques que nous  avons examinés, on se rend compte que la procédure d'élaboration a été différente. Les leçons que l'on pourrait tirer de  ce fait me semblent être de trois ordres. La première leçon pour l'avenir, si l'UNESCO veut être à la hauteur de  l'ambition qu'elle s'est assignée, c'est qu'il faut sans doute qu'en élaborant notamment des instruments concernant le  patrimoine immatériel, mais aussi la bioéthique, et en reprenant l'examen de l'instrument sur le cyberespace, notre  Organisation renforce ses ressources et ses compétences pour faire face à ces tâches nouvelles.
69.4 La deuxième observation que je voudrais faire, c'est que le Secrétariat devrait aussi, me semble-t-il, réfléchir à  la façon dont sont menées les négociations. Ce qui me conduit à le croire, ce sont un certain nombre de remarques qui  ont été faites à l'occasion de l'examen de la Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique. Je crois  que le rôle du Secrétariat est d'aider les Etats membres à réduire leurs divergences lorsqu'ils en ont, à rapprocher leurs  points de vue et non de s'appuyer sur des majorités préétablies. C'est un travail qui prend du temps, c'est vrai alors qu'on  aimerait parfois procéder plus vite. Mais je crois que si l'on veut aboutir à de vrais consensus, il faut une gestion un peu  plus souple des calendriers.
69.5 Ma troisième observation porte sur le fait qu'il est évidemment indispensable que le Secrétariat travaille en  association étroite et permanente avec les Etats membres. De ce point de vue, je voudrais rappeler ce qu'a dit le  Directeur général à l'ouverture de nos travaux concernant la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle. Il a dit que cette  Déclaration était le résultat d'une coopération exemplaire entre le Secrétariat, le Conseil exécutif et les Etats membres.  En effet si nous avons pu, en un temps relativement bref, deux ans, soit la durée d'un exercice, arriver à adopter cette  Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle, c'est que nous n'avons pas lésiné sur les moyens pour y parvenir. Je vous rappelle  que deux réunions ministérielles se sont tenues, que cette question a été évoquée à toutes les sessions du Conseil  exécutif, qu'il y a eu deux consultations des Etats membres et que cinq ou six versions du projet ont circulé avant qu'il  soit en fin de compte soumis à la Conférence générale.
69.6 A mon avis, c'est la bonne méthode. C'est une méthode qui demande du temps, de l'énergie, mais c'est la bonne  méthode. Et je dois dire que si nous n'avons pas réussi à adopter la Recommandation sur le cyberespace, c'est parce  qu'une méthode de ce type n'a pas été utilisée et que les Etats membres ont eu l'impression de se trouver placés devant  le fait accompli lorsqu'ils ont découvert le 22 octobre une version du projet de recommandation qui ne correspondait pas  du tout à celle qui avait été mise en circulation auparavant et examinée par le Conseil exécutif. Si je dis cela, ce n'est pas  pour faire des critiques rétrospectives, mais pour essayer d'orienter les choses dans un sens constructif. Je pense que  l'UNESCO a vraiment un grand rôle à jouer dans le monde actuel en tant qu'instance de régulation agissant de telle sorte  que la mondialisation soit mieux maîtrisée et qu'elle profite à tous - et son activité normative va tout à fait dans ce sens.  Il faut qu'elle se donne les moyens de le faire, de tirer les leçons de la riche expérience qui a été acquise au cours de
589  cette période biennale. C'est ainsi me semble-t-il, que notre Organisation gagnera la crédibilité et l'efficacité que nous  souhaitons tous. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
70. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador, for your very important observations. They have been duly recorded and  the points you made will definitely be taken care of. I would now like to give the floor to the Director-General.
71.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank Ambassador Musitelli for having raised a number of  important points which require profound reflection, not only on the part of the Secretariat but also on the part of all  Member States. I am very gratified to have heard the tribute you have paid to the efforts we have made, and the  Member States have made, in coming to consensus on the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. I would like to  take advantage of this occasion to thank you all for the efforts you have deployed to create consensus.
71.2 But I would also like to mention that, according to past practice, declarations are adopted by consensus,  unanimously, whereas conventions are voted. The General Conference of UNESCO has adopted a number of  conventions in the last 50 years, many in the area of culture. I do not recall any convention that has been adopted  unanimously. But conventions require a procedure to be followed, including signature and ratification, so all Member  States do have the possibility to express their views in the course of the procedure followed. Of course, my hope would  be that conventions, too, would be adopted by unanimity. That was my hope when I got seriously involved in the  Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. That was my position, and the position I indicated to  the Executive Board on a number of occasions. The working group accordingly met three times in the last one and a  half years but, most unfortunately, we could not come to a consensus. Nevertheless, the Convention did attract very  strong support from a number of States and I would like to remind you that even the famous 1972 Convention on the  Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, which all countries accepted, and for which we now have more  than 165 signatories, was also voted with opposition and with a number of abstentions. It was not adopted unanimously.  Therefore, I repeat, past practice has been that declarations are adopted by consensus whereas conventions are, whether  we like it or not, voted.
71.3 On the subject of recommendations, I have not done enough research yet, but nevertheless there are apparently  two types of recommendations. With regard to the recommendation on cyberspace I made it clear, here and there, both  abroad and also here at the General Conference, that if we were to adopt a new recommendation on cyberspace, a very  important recommendation, we should do so by consensus, in the same way as we adopt a declaration, an important  declaration. I therefore appealed to all of you, both abroad and here, to make further efforts to reach a consensus. The  draft that Ambassador Musitelli mentioned was such an attempt on our part to reach consensus, but apparently we did  not succeed. When I attended Commission V, I witnessed with my own eyes how completely divided the views were. I  could not possibly recommend that we proceed to vote on such an important recommendation when views were so  completely divided. I therefore made a suggestion, which was very fortunately accepted by Commission V, as reported  by its Chairperson.
71.4 I certainly now have to reflect on why we did not succeed in reaching consensus here whereas we did reach  consensus on the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity. I will certainly have to reflect, I would like to ask my  colleagues to reflect, but I would like to ask you, Member States, to reflect as well. But, at any rate, what is important  right now is to follow the procedure you have just adopted and I will do my best to achieve consensus, but I would like  to ask you to make serious efforts to achieve consensus. Thank you very much.
72. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. I now invite the distinguished delegate of Spain to take the floor.
(73.1) M. VILLAR (Espagne) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Au moment où le délégué de la France était sur le point d'achever son intervention,  ma délégation a demandé la parole pour appuyer dans les grandes lignes ses propos qui me semblent très importants et très  pertinents. Ma délégation souhaiterait qu'on insiste beaucoup plus sur la procédure que sur les résultats.
(73.2) Il est certain, comme l'a indiqué le Directeur général, que, compte tenu de la nature et du contenu de l'instrument  normatif qui s'élabore ou qui se négocie dans notre Organisation, il est parfois difficile de parvenir à un consensus bien que  ce dernier soit toujours souhaitable. Je pense cependant qu'il importe de mettre l'accent sur l'adoption d'une procédure qui  soit la plus appropriée et qui nous satisfasse tous. A cet égard, comme l'a signalé le délégué de la France, le résultat sans  nul doute le plus convaincant et le plus satisfaisant pour nous tous à la présente session de cette Conférence générale a été  l'adoption à l'unanimité et par consensus de l'importante Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle.
(73.3) C'est dans une large mesure grâce à la procédure qui a été suivie que nous sommes parvenus à ce résultat. Je  pense qu'il faut en tenir compte pour l'avenir et, à ce sujet, je souscris entièrement aux propos du délégué de la France, à  savoir que non seulement les Etats membres mais aussi le Directeur général et le Secrétariat doivent prendre en  considération ce précédent pour, dans la plus large mesure, s'y référer aussi fidèlement que possible lors de l'élaboration et  de l'adoption des instruments normatifs futurs, par exemple sur des sujets aussi importants que le plurilinguisme et l'accès  au cyberespace, sans oublier le futur instrument normatif sur la protection du patrimoine immatériel. Pour ce type de sujets,  il serait regrettable que pour ne pas avoir suivi la procédure la plus appropriée, à savoir une procédure analogue à celle que  nous avons utilisée pour l'adoption de la Déclaration sur la diversité culturelle, le résultat soit au bout du compte décevant  parce qu'il n'aurait pas été possible d'adopter l'instrument par consensus, à l'unanimité. Ce serait regrettable et l'on pourrait  vraisemblablement incriminer le fait que la procédure la plus appropriée n'aurait pas été suivie, à savoir celle qui consiste à  convoquer des réunions d'experts, à tenir des consultations régulières et à prendre très sérieusement en considération les  points de vue, les sensibilités et les problèmes des Etats membres. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
(75) M. QUBILAT (Jordanie) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation de mon pays a demandé la parole pour évoquer le projet de  résolution 31 C/4 DR.1, qui comporte un amendement au Projet de stratégie à moyen terme pour 2002-2007. D'abord, j'ai le  plaisir de remercier S. E. M. l'ambassadeur Al-Mashat et les membres de la Commission V pour l'excellent travail accompli  et clairement présenté dans le rapport que nous venons d'entendre. Monsieur le Président, dans le cadre des préparatifs du  Sommet mondial pour le développement durable qui aura lieu à Johannesburg en 2002, la communauté internationale a  lancé un appel en faveur de l'adoption d'une perspective internationale pour construire une société mondiale plus équitable,  jouissant d'une paix durable. Cela résume le projet de Charte de la Terre, proposé par mon pays, la Jordanie, représenté par  Son Altesse la Princesse Basma Bint Talal. L'adoption de cette perspective mondiale constitue un des objectifs de  l'UNESCO, qui prône un monde multiculturel. La communauté internationale dispose aujourd'hui de la Charte de la Terre,  instrument qui énonce des principes fondamentaux pour la construction d'un avenir stable et la mobilisation d'une  participation mondiale pour un développement durable. La Charte de la Terre tend à traiter les problèmes interdépendants  du monde par l'éducation et la formation, à prôner des relations de respect et de responsabilité entre les êtres humains, à  réaliser la justice et l'équité économiques ainsi que la démocratie, et à combattre la pauvreté et la violence, en appelant à la  paix. C'est pourquoi mon pays appelle les honorables Etats présents à cette Conférence générale à soutenir la Charte de la  Terre mentionnée dans le projet de résolution proposant un amendement au Projet de stratégie à moyen terme pour 2002-
2007. Nous remercions le Groupe de rédaction pour son travail ainsi que toutes les commissions participantes. Nous  remercions également la Conférence générale et son Président d'avoir demandé au Directeur général de concrétiser la  Charte de la Terre dans la version finale du document 31 C/4. Pour finir, nous remercions le Directeur général de la grande  attention qu'il a accordée à ce document. Merci.   :א ٧٦,١  .א
(76.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci beaucoup.  (The President continues in English)
76.2 Thank you very much. Your statement will be recorded in our documents. Distinguished delegate of Slovenia,  you have the floor.
77. Ms KLEMEN-KREK (Slovenia):   Thank you very much, Mr President. The Slovenian delegation would like to acknowledge the efforts that have  been made by the Secretariat in preparatory work for the international standard-setting instrument and at the same time  we also support the comments on the preparations made by the distinguished delegate of France. We do not like to  question the choice of experts that the Director-General made on many occasions for the preparation of this  international standard-setting instrument and we do not question the knowledge of the experts chosen. However, we  believe that it is important to inform the National Commissions of such a choice to enable them to assist the experts  before they come to the Secretariat to give their expertise on the core issue, because such experts do not necessarily  have enough background knowledge on the role and the objectives of UNESCO. Thank you very much.
78.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam.   (The President continues in Arabic)   :א ٧٨,٢  ، ،  .א
(78.2) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Madame l'ambassadrice d'Egypte, vous avez la parole.   ):(א ٧٩ א  ،.א، ،א .، א א א א א א א .، א א א א א א
(79) Mme OMAR (Egypte) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. A vrai dire, la délégation de mon pays appuie totalement ce qui a été dit par S. E.  l'ambassadeur de France, puis par S. E. l'ambassadeur d'Espagne. La méthode de travail utilisée lors de l'élaboration du  Projet de Déclaration de l'UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle était idéale; et c'est pour cela que nous sommes arrivés à une  version idéale. Quant à l'élaboration du Projet de Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique, elle a  été pénible, et s'est caractérisée par beaucoup d'incertitude et d'insatisfaction dans la façon de diriger le débat, et de  concilier les positions des différents pays ; c'est pour cette raison que le résultat n'a pas été positif. Nous devrions donc être  vigilants et faire précéder la formulation définitive de ce genre de conventions d'une bonne préparation. Merci.   :א ٨٠ א  ، א.א א א  .א
(81) M. KARADAWI (Soudan) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Tout d'abord, je remercie le Directeur général pour son intéressante allocution,  ainsi que Monsieur Al-Mashat, Président de la Commission V, pour les grands efforts qu'il a déployés. J'estime que  l'UNESCO devrait rester la maison unique au monde et le refuge sûr de tous les êtres humains, le lieu où l'on se réfugie  quand on ne peut pas recourir à d'autres organisations internationales qui pratiquent le veto, et où se posent beaucoup de  problèmes politiques. Je crois qu'un grand nombre des commentaires qui suivent la présentation des rapports reflètent dans  bien des cas des préjugés et des positions figées qui ne font pas avancer le débat. C'est pourquoi j'estime que les efforts  déployés pour élaborer la Déclaration et la Convention ont été énormes et pénibles, mais que les attitudes figées existantes  reflètent certains intérêts propres à certains Etats. J'espère donc que nous garderons l'UNESCO comme un refuge sûr et la  maison du monde dans laquelle s'abritent les faibles et les forts, en particulier à l'époque actuelle où nous sommes à un  carrefour où le monde va soit choisir la voie le menant à bon port, soit se lancer dans un nouveau conflit dévastateur qui  détruira l'humanité. Je réitère mes remerciements à Monsieur Al-Mashat et au Directeur général, et je souhaite que  l'UNESCO continue à représenter un refuge sûr et une maison du monde unique en son genre. Merci.
82. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished delegate of Costa Rica, you have the floor, sir.
(83.1) M. PEÑARANDA ZÁRATE (Costa Rica) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Je voulais simplement prendre la parole pour appuyer d'une façon  générale les propos du délégué de la Jordanie. Il ne faut pas oublier que pour instaurer la paix, il faut d'abord s'attaquer à  des problèmes tels que l'élimination de la pauvreté, la protection de l'environnement et la santé dans le monde, tous ces  sujets étant étroitement imbriqués. Pour cela, il faut définir un cadre éthique commun qui reflète une vision globale. La  Charte de la Terre peut être considérée comme une réponse à cette nécessité d'introduire une dimension éthique dans nos  décisions et activités. Nous avons besoin d'un catalyseur pour réussir à instaurer le dialogue multisectoriel entre différentes  croyances et cultures.
(83.2) La Charte de la Terre est le fruit d'une consultation mondiale qui a abouti à l'élaboration d'une déclaration sur les  principes et les valeurs du développement durable. Elle peut être une réponse à l'appel lancé par la Commission des  Nations Unies sur l'environnement et le développement en vue de l'élaboration d'une nouvelle charte du développement  durable, une déclaration de principes qui regroupe les idées contenues dans les multiples déclarations du système des  Nations Unies. La Charte de la Terre est une initiative qui favorise la mise en place d'une base éthique solide pour  l'édification d'un monde viable fondé sur le respect de la nature, les droits de l'homme universels, la justice économique et  la culture de la paix.
(83.3) L'UNESCO utilise déjà cet instrument dans ses matériels d'éducation pour le développement durable. Le  Gouvernement du Costa Rica y a déjà adhéré et recommande que l'UNESCO et les Etats membres ici représentés fassent de  même et envisagent de l'appliquer. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président.
84. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. Distinguished Ambassador of India, I know you asked for the floor earlier and I  apologise that I did not recognize you. You have the floor, Madam.
85. Ms SABHARWAL (India):   Thank you very much, Mr President, for having given us the floor. We would like to join the debate on a more  general note concerning the very valid principles of current procedures and the desirable results to be achieved by  means of such procedures, preferably by consensus. But, by the nature of things, conventions, as the history of the  adoption of conventions in this and other organizations shows, and as clarified by the Director-General himself, do not  always lend themselves to this ideal solution of adoption by consensus but are nevertheless formulated after thorough  discussion and a precise understanding of each other’s concerns and of what in such a situation satisfies the vast  majority. We wanted to take the floor on the general issue, Mr President, to emphasize our full support for the  procedure. We also need to ensure that the procedures, which we support, have been correctly followed in the  successful adoption of certain standards and declarations. We are confident that the correct procedures are initiated and  will be followed for the very important declarations before us, namely the draft convention on the oral and intangible  heritage and the draft recommendation on multilingualism. In our experience we welcomed the process of the  consultations on what is now the Universal Declaration of Cultural Diversity. If we look back, two years ago there were  a lot of misgivings and a lot of doubts arising largely from an insufficient understanding of each other’s positions, each  other’s perspectives and each other’s approaches to what was a common good. Therefore, we would like to add that,  while the procedures are absolutely required to be sound, which facilitates full discussion, thorough reflection and open  debate, what is also required is flexibility, a spirit of understanding, dialogue and the ability to appreciate each other’s  difficulties, positions and concerns in order to reach a common goal and a common good by consensus. Thank you very  much.
86. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Your valuable comments will be recorded in the Proceedings of the  Conference. I now invite the distinguished delegate of Belgium, to be followed by Argentina, who, I hope, will be the  last speaker. You have the floor, sir.
87. M. THUNUS (Belgique) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais à mon tour m'associer pleinement à l'intervention de  Monsieur l'ambassadeur Musitelli et à celle du délégué de l'Espagne, ainsi qu'aux remarques des autres orateurs qui se  sont prononcés dans le même sens, au sujet du lien évident entre la procédure adoptée en vue de l'adoption d'un  instrument et le résultat obtenu. La Belgique est d'avis qu'il conviendrait peut-être de prendre en compte trois autres  paramètres et d'adapter en conséquence nos méthodes de travail. Le premier de ces paramètres est le degré plus ou
594  moins grand d'urgence de la question à traiter. En second lieu, il nous semble qu'il doit être aussi tenu compte du  caractère plus ou moins contraignant des recommandations, des directives ou des obligations contenues dans un texte. Il  est normal que les Etats se montrent d'autant plus attentifs qu'un instrument est plus contraignant. Enfin, il faut avoir à  l'esprit les échéances biennales que nous impose la tenue tous les deux ans de la Conférence générale, seule habilitée à  adopter de tels instruments. Sans doute convient-il dans certains cas de prévoir un temps suffisant, sans s'enfermer dans  un cadre trop rigide, pour que les négociations puissent aboutir au moment opportun. Je me permets donc, Monsieur le  Directeur général, de souligner comme vous la nécessité de réfléchir aux méthodes de travail lorsque l'on se propose  d'élaborer de tels instruments. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
88. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much for the valuable comment you made, distinguished colleague. Argentina, you have the  floor, sir.
(89.1) M. DEL SOLAR (Argentine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Il est indiscutable que l'une des missions les plus utiles et les plus riches de  l'UNESCO est l'élaboration d'instruments et de conventions portant sur des domaines dans lesquels nous avons travaillé. Le  délégué de la France et d'autres délégués se préoccupent à juste titre, dans un souci de perfectionnisme, de recommander ou  de rechercher les moyens d'améliorer les procédures permettant d'adopter non seulement des instruments mais aussi  d'autres décisions de l'UNESCO.
(89.2) Or, comme l'ont dit le Directeur général lui-même et certains délégués, l'élaboration d'instruments normatifs est  une tâche extrêmement difficile qui fait appel à des modalités de traitement, de préparation et de décision différentes : une  déclaration sur la diversité culturelle est une chose, une convention ou un projet de convention, par exemple sur le  patrimoine culturel subaquatique, en est une autre, infiniment plus conflictuelle et délicate.
(89.3) La délégation argentine n'a pour sa part aucune plainte à formuler en ce qui concerne l'élaboration, par exemple,  du projet de convention sur le patrimoine culturel subaquatique. Le Directeur général lui-même nous dit aujourd'hui, et  nous a toujours dit, qu'il recherchait le consensus et en effet, il a fourni un travail considérable, comme il l'a pu, parfois  ouvertement et parfois par la voie diplomatique. Ces efforts ont été très perceptibles mais comme lui-même et d'autres l'ont  dit, il n'est pas toujours possible de parvenir au consensus, surtout lorsque le texte suscite des controverses.
(89.4) J'ai cru comprendre des propos du délégué de la France, dont je partage le souci de perfectionnisme, que le  Secrétariat avait adopté une attitude consistant à s'appuyer sur la position d'un groupe de pays et n'aurait ainsi pas fait  preuve d'objectivité. Monsieur le Président, comme vous le savez, l'Argentine a suivi de très près toute cette procédure  laborieuse qui a heureusement abouti à l'élaboration d'un projet de convention, et à aucun moment je n'ai constaté une telle  attitude, bien au contraire. En effet, les difficultés auxquelles la procédure s'est heurtée et qui ont entravé sa fluidité ont
595  tenu précisément à la très grande diversité des points de vue et au fait qu'un certain camp n'était pas satisfait de l'éventuel  résultat. C'est précisément ce camp et non le Secrétariat qui a été à l'origine des difficultés. Pendant toute cette procédure  qui est passée par différentes étapes, le Secrétariat a été à la disposition de toutes les parties et a fait tout ce qui était en son  pouvoir pour contribuer au résultat attendu, à savoir l'élaboration d'un projet de convention. Ce dernier n'a pas été adopté à  l'unanimité mais il a fini par recueillir un soutien appréciable. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
90.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Ambassador of Argentina.   (The President continues in Arabic).  א ٩٠,٢ ؛א א א א  .א
(90.2) (Traduit de l'arabe) :   J'invite maintenant S. E. l'ambassadeur d'Arabie saoudite à prendre la parole.  א ٩١ א(א א  ):א א  א.א، א א א ، א א א  .א
(91) M. AL-ATHEL (Arabie saoudite) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous reconnaissons que le commentaire du Directeur général de l'UNESCO sur le  vote concernant le Projet de Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique est sage et acceptable. Nous  appuyons donc son commentaire et nous l'en remercions.   :א ٩٢,١  .א
(92.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci beaucoup.  (The President continues in English)
92.2 Thank you very much. Senegal, you have the floor, sir.
93.1 M. BA (Sénégal) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. après ces échanges particulièrement intéressants, il m'est difficile de  ne pas intervenir une deuxième fois. Vous voudrez bien m'en excuser. Je le fais avec d'autant plus de plaisir que je  trouve là l'occasion de marquer, s'il en est encore besoin, l'accord que j'ai souvent eu avec mon ami,  S. E. M. l'ambassadeur Jean Musitelli de la France. A la suite des propos qu'il vient de tenir, que je considère comme  particulièrement pertinents, je pense qu'effectivement il faut faire très attention à la procédure à utiliser.
93.2 Si nous voulons arriver à l'adoption d'instruments normatifs qui démontrent l'efficacité du travail qui doit se  faire à l'UNESCO - efficacité à laquelle tout le monde aspire - je pense que l'un des moyens les plus sûrs d'y parvenir,  c'est de retenir la meilleure procédure. Sur ce point, le Directeur général a fait une intervention très pertinente, en faisant  preuve de connaissances si approfondies en matière de droit, qu'il me semble que la présence à ses côtés d'un comité  juridique ou de conseillers juridiques n'est qu'un simple luxe. Il faut saluer l'aisance avec laquelle il a su faire le départ  entre des concepts de droit aussi proches que ceux de déclaration, de convention et de recommandation et expliquer  leurs différents modes d'adoption.
93.3 Cela dit, j'en suis venu, en l'écoutant à me poser une question ; en effet, je me souviens que les Anciens  disaient que la règle de droit ne servait qu'aux gens qui savaient s'en servir. Donc, quand on manie des concepts de  droit, l'important est de savoir lequel choisir pour pouvoir arriver au résultat recherché. Il ne faut pas se tromper dans  son choix. En ce qui me concerne, l'essentiel étant l'adoption d'instruments normatifs, le gage de la réussite de notre  action le plus important je crois, c'est de dégager une stratégie suffisamment efficace, qui passe par la consultation de  toutes les parties concernées par le problème qui se pose à nous. Cela me paraît plus important que de chercher à faire le  départ entre des concepts de droit qui sont proches les uns des autres parce que l'essentiel, finalement, quel que soit le  concept qu'on utilise, c'est de parvenir à nous mettre d'accord pour nous donner les moyens de notre politique.
93.4 Donc, peu importe que l'adoption intervienne par consensus ou d'une autre façon, il faut se mettre d'accord sur  la procédure d'élaboration de l'instrument. M. Jean Musitelli a raison de dire qu'il faut essayer d'associer les Etats
596  membres. Cela évite en effet des blocages et nous permet d'être sûrs que la solution adoptée, si elle n'est pas la  meilleure, est au moins celle qui est agréée par la majorité. C'est cela, finalement, la règle de droit international à  laquelle il n'y a pas d'exception. Il faut s'entendre sur ce que l'on considère comme essentiel pour avoir quelque chance  de résoudre le problème qui se pose. Or il est important, je le répète et je m'arrêterai à cela, il est important de se mettre  d'accord sur une procédure, car ainsi le problème est à moitié résolu sur le plan du droit international. Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.
94. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much for those important points, but to continue that, I would like to mention that I am  enjoying very much this spirit of dialogue, different comments, different dimensions, it is very useful. I would enjoy it  even more if the Director-General were to have lunch brought in to us! Now, I have two more countries on my list of  speakers – Norway and the United Republic of Tanzania. With your permission, I would like to close this list. It is now  closed. Norway, you have the floor, Madam.
95. Ms WAGLE (Norway):   Thank you, Mr President. I know that you are eager to end this debate. I was not going to take the floor,  although I would very much like to support what the Ambassador of France said regarding the legally binding  instruments and I thank him for so clearly stating the lessons to be learned. But I felt that I should take the floor due to  the statement just made by Argentina because I regret very much what he said, mainly that it was a group of a few  countries that had created problems regarding the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage.  Sometimes, Mr President, we are in the minority and sometimes we find ourselves in the majority. However, we should  always respect each other’s point of view and the right to present our points of view and our countries’ positions. I find  that it is not very constructive when we try to blame each other for not reaching a consensus. I am sorry, but I felt I  should say this because I felt that during the negotiations this attitude was actually a problem for some of us. I thank  you very much.
96. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam. Our last speaker for this part is the distinguished delegate of the United  Republic of Tanzania.
97. Mr SHEYA (United Republic of Tanzania):   Mr President, thank you very much. Mr President, in fact I did not intend to speak, but it would have been very  unfair if I did not. For the simple reason that, first of all, I wanted to express my thanks to Professor Al-Mashat for his  most elaborate report and his very able chairmanship of Commission V. Mr President, I participated in Commission V  and I had some difficulties during the deliberations with regard to procedural matters. Therefore, having heard various  delegations speaking about procedural matters, I would like to add my voice to the effect that in the future the  Secretariat should observe procedural matters when it comes to the submission of documents to Member States, so that  Member States can have adequate time to go through them, digest their content and be able to participate properly in the  deliberations. Thank you very much.
98. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, dear colleague. Your comments will be recorded. Distinguished Ambassador of  Argentina, I think that we closed the list of speakers. Do you have a very short comment?
(99.1) M. DEL SOLAR (Argentine) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Je serai très bref, Monsieur le Président. D'ores et déjà, je vous remercie d'avoir bien voulu me laisser prendre  rapidement la parole alors que vous avez clos la liste des orateurs. J'interviens parce que la déléguée de la Norvège a cité  mon pays et a vu dans mes propos l'insinuation d'un manquement au respect du droit de chacun d'exprimer son opinion. Je  tiens à la tranquilliser car telle n'était pas mon intention. L'Argentine est une démocratie dont les représentants, y compris  votre serviteur, sont des démocrates. Nous respectons entièrement l'opinion de nos interlocuteurs, quelle que soit cette  opinion.
(99.2) Je connais parfaitement le nombre de réunions qui ont eu lieu. Lors des réunions consacrées au projet de  convention sur le patrimoine culturel subaquatique, auxquelles ont assisté l'Argentine et la Norvège, les débats ont été  exemplaires et le dialogue extrêmement aisé. Les échanges de vues ont été respectés et chacun a exercé son droit  d'exprimer son opinion. Ce que j'ai voulu dire, Monsieur le Président, et j'en termine immédiatement, c'est que dans sa  déclaration, mon ami M. Musitelli a dit que dans la procédure d'élaboration de cette convention, le Secrétariat avait adopté  une position favorable à l'un des deux camps. Mon intervention n'a d'autre objet que de souligner l'injustice de ces propos  parce que le Secrétariat a fait preuve d'une parfaite objectivité. Toutefois, les difficultés considérables rencontrées au cours  de cette procédure en raison des différentes positions adoptées en la matière ont fait que les débats se sont poursuivis sur  plusieurs réunions ; mais le Secrétariat n'en est en rien responsable. Merci beaucoup.
100. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Ambassador. Thank you all very much for your comments. They will be important for our future  normative work at UNESCO.  POINT 4.4 : ADOPTION DE LA RÉSOLUTION PORTANT OUVERTURE DE CRÉDITS POUR 2002-2003  ITEM 4.4: ADOPTION OF THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 2002-2003  PUNTO 4.4: APROBACIÓN DE LA RESOLUCIÓN DE CONSIGNACIÓN DE CRÉDITOS PARA 2002-2003  ПУНКТ 4.4: ПРИНЯТИЕ РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ ОБ АССИГНОВАНИЯХ НА 2002-2003 ГГ.  א:٤,٤א א א א ٢٠٠٣−٢٠٠٢א   项目 4.4：通过 2002—2003 年拨款决议
101. The PRESIDENT:   Let us now turn to item 4.4, “Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2002-2003” (31 C/52). As you are  aware, colleagues, at their Joint Meeting, chaired by the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, Ambassador  Stanton, which took place yesterday, the five programme commissions and the Administrative Commission  recommended a Draft Appropriation Resolution to us for adoption. I shall, therefore, give the floor to the distinguished  Ambassador of the United Kingdom, Mr Stanton, in order to present this document. Sir, you have the floor.
102. Mr STANTON (United Kingdom), Chairperson of the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions:   Thank you, sir. Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to present to you, at  this last plenary meeting of the General Conference, the results of the work accomplished during the Joint Meeting of  the five programme commissions and the Administrative Commission, which I had the honour to chair yesterday  afternoon, 2 November. At that meeting, we examined document 31 C/PRG/ADM.1, which presented the modified  version of the Draft Appropriation Resolution for 2002-2003 (modified to reflect the revised budget estimates proposed  by the Director-General in document 31 C/5 Rev.), the proposals of the Executive Board in its final recommendations  on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2002-2003 (31 C/6, Part II) and the deliberations of the Administrative  Commission. Mr President, the spirit of cooperation that prevailed permitted us to recommend unanimously and without  debate that the final budget ceiling for 2002-2003 be US $544,367,250 and that the General Conference adopt the  Appropriation Resolution for 2002-2003 as set out in the Annex to document 31 C/52 which is before us. May I, sir, at  this point, convey my warm thanks to all the distinguished delegates who helped to achieve this goal. Thank you very  much, Mr President.
103.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. Are there any comments from the floor? As I see none, I consider that the  General Conference takes note of the report of the Chairperson of the Joint Meeting and adopts the Appropriation  Resolution for 2002-2003 contained in document 31 C/52.
103.2 It is so decided.
103.3 The Director-General would like to make a statement. You have the floor, sir.
104.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked to take the floor to make a few comments now that you have  adopted the Appropriation Resolution. As I have had occasion to state on several previous occasions during this General
598  Conference session and also in the Executive Board, I have scrupulously respected the desire of Member States to  propose a budget for the next C/5 document based on the principle of zero nominal growth. I have also said how  difficult the task has been. Not only has it been necessary to provide for a considerable reduction in staffing, but at the  same time we have sought to reinforce our capacity in key areas and strengthen our resources in the field. Not only has  it been necessary to put on hold certain programmes and activities which, without being considered priorities,  nevertheless deal with important aspects of UNESCO’s mission, but, in addition, reform itself has a cost, and we have  not managed to identify the necessary amounts of funding to achieve everything we would have wished. On top of this,  certain additional requirements have presented themselves along the way which I have had to try to meet as well. All  these requirements I have done everything possible to seek to absorb.
104.2 However, I think you will agree that the strain of this zero nominal growth principle has been felt all through  this Conference. Many delegates have sympathized with the exceptional difficulty of accommodating so many  conflicting requirements and some have challenged the principle itself, pointing out that it somehow contradicted the  underlying reform spirit of this Conference, where so much is being expected of the Organization in the international  arena. I appreciate these comments. Having drawn up the budget on these terms I shall now apply myself, along with  my colleagues in the Secretariat, to implementing it. The programme we have adopted for the next two years is a  stimulating and challenging one. I am relieved to hear that there is now a new message coming out, quite clearly, to say  that zero nominal growth is not a dogma. The reform process is indeed not over. We have done much and have much  more to do, but I would like to think that we can reap the dividend of our efforts and, as we proceed with planning the  following C/5 document, I frankly do not see how we can foresee yet another biennium of shrinking real purchasing  power or, to put it another way, real delivery power without seriously hampering our Organization’s credibility. As you  delegates to this General Conference prepare to return home and write up your reports I urge you to underline the extent  to which the current budget frame is putting a stranglehold on the Organization’s capacity. I hope that you will be able  to convince the authorities of the need to provide UNESCO with the means to do all that it is being asked to do. Thank  you very much, sir.  HOMMAGE À MME MENDIETA DE BADAROUX, PRÉSIDENTE DU CONSEIL EXÉCUTIF  TRIBUTE TO MS MENDIETA DE BADAROUX, CHAIRPERSON OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  HOMENAJE A LA SRA. MENDIETA DE BADAROUX, PRESIDENTA DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  ВЫРАЖЕНИЕ ПРИЗНАТЕЛЬНОСТИ Г-ЖЕ СОНЕ МЕНДЬЕТА ДЕ БАДАРУ  א א ، א   向执行局主席 Mendieta de Badaroux 女士致敬
105.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Director-General. Distinguished colleagues, I now have the honour and the pleasure to  submit to you a draft resolution presented by the General Committee of the General Conference in tribute to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ms Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux. The text of the resolution has been distributed to  you as document 31 C/PLEN/DR.3. I shall now read out the text of the resolution:  The General Conference,  Noting that Ms Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux will conclude her mandate as Chairperson of the Executive Board  at the end of the 31st session of the General Conference,  Recalling that her term has covered the preparation and implementation of the Reform Process of the  Organization, a period marking the transition towards a more relevant and efficient Organization,  Noting with satisfaction the dedication, commitment and determination that have guided her in ensuring that  the Executive Board accomplish its constitutional mandate to the fullest extent possible,  Recognizing her contribution towards harmonious and rewarding working relations between the Executive  Board and the Director-General,  Appreciating the fundamental importance she has attached to working methods and to fostering meaningful  consultation and coordination with the Members of the Executive Board,  Expresses its sincere gratitude and appreciation to the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ms Mendieta de  Badaroux, for her invaluable services to the Organization.  (Applause)
105.2 It is very clear that your applause is a powerful indication of your approval of this resolution. Your sentiments  and opinions regarding her achievements were also expressed in the last meeting of the Executive Board as well as in  the General Committee and on other occasions. I therefore declare this resolution adopted.
105.3 It is now a great pleasure for me to give the floor to the distinguished Chairperson of the Board, Ms Sonia  Mendieta de Badaroux.
106.1 Ms MENDIETA DE BADAROUX (Honduras), Chairperson of the Executive Board:   Mr President, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our three weeks of deliberations we  must look back on the time and effort spent and ask ourselves what we have achieved. Although the fruits of our efforts  at this stage cannot be properly measured, since the palpable results of our work will have to flow from the  implementation of the declarations, resolutions and programmes that have been adopted, our most concrete  achievement, visible to everyone, is the solidarity and determination shown by the entire international community  throughout the Conference to make a contribution towards solving current global problems and reinforcing the mandate  of the Organization for its future role. In the tradition of the Organization, this Conference has clearly mapped out the  way forward for what can potentially be achieved if the problems identified are approached with tenacity and  determination.
106.2 We can all look back on a period of activity and productivity that has been as inspiring as it was gratifying.  Evidently, we have successfully reflected on the causes, attitudes and policies that will go some way towards alleviating  many of the ills that pose a challenge to UNESCO’s mandate.
106.3 Mr President, through the adoption of the Medium-Term Strategy for the next six years, the Programme and  Budget for the next biennium, the Declaration on Cultural Diversity, and the establishment of the Convention on the  Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, to name but a few feats of this General Conference, we have all  reaffirmed our commitment to meet all the challenges ahead. We have no doubt made some strides towards the  eradication of poverty, the total eradication of illiteracy, the narrowing of the digital divide and the countering of the  HIV/AIDS pandemic. We may all congratulate ourselves for not having allowed the current international predicament  to set back important causes, particularly with regard to the world’s dispossessed, whose solution is long overdue. The  recurrent and perennial issues of poverty and illiteracy, as the mainstay of human development and human dignity, have  been given their due in all the relevant debates.
106.4 Mr President, the instruments that we are putting in place should encourage the international community to  develop and implement sustainable policies for multicultural societies in order to end, notably through dialogue, the  world’s neglect and persecution of minorities and the rampant injustice that threaten our very survival and dignity.  These instruments form the basis of the lasting solution in our search for dialogue among civilizations and the  sustainability or survival of cultures.
106.5 We hope that the implementation of our Programme and Budget, and the first tranche of the Medium-Term  Strategy, will mark the beginning of a successful six-year cycle of international intellectual cooperation and that the  human face of globalization will prove to be a palpable reality rather than a mere elegant phrase.
106.6 Mr President, at the end of my mandate as Chairperson of the Executive Board, I would like to thank my  colleagues and all delegations for their unfailing support over the past two years. Your support has provided me with an  invaluable tool in the discharge of my duties.  (Ms Mendieta de Badaroux continues in Spanish)
(106.7) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je crois  au pouvoir des rêves. Tous les rêves peuvent devenir réalité ; tout dépend de notre volonté à nous, les êtres humains. Durant  toutes ces années de coopération avec l'UNESCO, j'ai fait de nombreux petits rêves et j'ai eu la chance d'en voir certains se  réaliser. Cependant, au moment où prennent fin mes délicates fonctions au sein du Conseil exécutif, j'ai fait un rêve  beaucoup plus grand et plus universel.
(106.8) J'y ai vu qu'au sein de notre chère Organisation s'étaient réunis des femmes et des hommes de toutes les  nationalités, de toutes les races, de toutes les idéologies, de toutes les religions et qu'ensemble, nous avions fait - et tenu - la  promesse de ne plus jamais permettre que soient laissés en suspens ou violés les principes que nous avions proclamés, les  accords que nous avions conclus et les recommandations que nous avions approuvées, ni en cette enceinte ni en aucun autre  lieu de la planète. Nous nous étions réunis pour travailler tous ensemble de façon solidaire, sans arrière-pensées, sans  mesquineries, sans rancunes cachées, dans un esprit sincère de compréhension, de justice, d'égalité et dans le respect de nos  diversités culturelles qui contribuent dans une si large mesure à l'enrichissement du patrimoine intellectuel de l'humanité.  J'ai eu le bonheur de constater que toute cette force intérieure accumulée au sein de l'UNESCO avait franchi les limites de  notre Organisation pour apporter une énergie vivifiante à toutes les régions du monde. La devise tant de fois mais jamais  assez répétée, était devenue réalité, à savoir que c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent être élevées les défenses de la  paix ; aussi, nous devons rester vigilants pour que ces défenses que nous avons mis tant d'années à construire ne soient plus  jamais affaiblies.
(106.9) Je garderai de la présente session de la Conférence générale qui s'achève aujourd'hui un sentiment d'optimisme et,  non sans raison, je peux être fière de prédire que les femmes et les hommes d'aujourd'hui auront le bonheur de vivre dans  un monde rénové où régneront la justice, l'égalité et la paix et où le mot "guerre" n'évoquera plus qu'un mauvais souvenir.  Je vous remercie de votre attention.
107. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, dear Chairperson, dear Sonia. We are sure that you will continue sharing your valuable  experience and your remarkable intuition with us in this house. I now give the floor to the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who would like to say a few words.
(108.1)  Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, j'ai l'immense privilège de remettre à Mme Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux, personnalité qui  nous a accompagnés avec tant de générosité au cours des deux années écoulées, une distinction qui symbolise notre estime  et notre gratitude à son égard.
(108.2)  Chère Sonia, j'ai déjà eu l'occasion de vous dire combien j'ai apprécié votre façon de conduire les travaux du  Conseil exécutif, et de vous faire part de l'estime que je porte à votre professionnalisme, à votre personnalité et à votre  sagesse. Votre pays, le Honduras, peut être fier d'avoir été aussi brillamment représenté. C'est avec le plus grand plaisir que  je vous remets aujourd'hui la plus haute distinction de l'Organisation : la médaille d'or de l'UNESCO, en témoignage de  notre reconnaissance pour les services inestimables que vous avez rendus à l'Organisation.  (Le Directeur général remet la médaille d'or de l'Organisation à Mme Mendieta de Badaroux)
109. The PRESIDENT:   I do share the essence of what was said by the Director-General. What we have accomplished in this General  Conference was mainly prepared before, during the last Executive Board, and we are all witnesses to what the  distinguished Chairperson of the Board contributed. Thank you very much.  DÉCLARATION DE L'OBSERVATEUR DES ETATS-UNIS AU SUJET DES ÉVÉNEMENTS   DU 11 SEPTEMBRE 2001  STATEMENT BY THE OBSERVER FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN CONNECTION   WITH THE EVENTS OF 11 SEPTEMBER 2001  DECLARACIÓN DEL OBSERVADOR  DE ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMÉRICA EN RELACIÓN CON LOS  SUCESOS DEL 11 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 2001  ЗАЯВЛЕНИЕ НАБЛЮДАТЕЛЯ ОТ СОЕДИНЕННЫХ ШТАТОВ АМЕРИКИ В СВЯЗИ С СОБЫТИЯМИ
110. The PRESIDENT:   I would now like to invite the distinguished observer for the United States of America, who has informed me  that he wishes to take the floor. If there are no objections, I will give him the floor. Sir, you have the floor.
111.1 Mr WANNER (Observer for the United States of America):   Thank you, Mr President. I requested a brief moment of the Conference’s time because I would not want this  General Conference to end before expressing my government’s most sincere thanks for the near countless expressions  of compassion, sympathy and sorrow over the terrible events of 11 September that have been expressed to us during this  session of the General Conference and Executive Board. To you, Mr President, to the Director-General, to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board, to the Board itself, to this Conference, and to the individual delegates of every  race, of every religion, of every nationality and of every political persuasion, that have expressed their shared sorrow, I  express my personal, and my government’s, most heartfelt appreciation and thanks. And, to you, representatives of the
81 countries who lost their citizens in the Twin Towers disaster, side by side with their American brothers and sisters,  we express our compassion, our sympathy and our sorrow. The site that I visited as a pilgrim three weeks after
11 September remains a scene of destruction so vast in its magnitude and so shocking in its simmering horror that only  a Dante or a Hieronymus Bosch might dare to depict it.
111.2 Mr President, I wish to express my government’s respect and thanks to the Director-General, the General  Conference and the Executive Board for their unambiguous condemnation of terrorism, and for their affirmation that  nothing – nothing – can justify such acts. I thank them and UNESCO’s dedicated staff for their vigorous efforts to  build, through cooperation and education in science, in culture and in communication, the trust, the understanding, the  respect and the dialogue among civilizations and nations that is essential to the construction of a lasting peace. Finally,  Mr President, be assured that we will continue to work towards that day when the United States can participate in full  membership with UNESCO and partnership with all its Member States in achieving these essential goals. Thank you,  Sir.
112. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, distinguished observer for the United States. We condemn that tragic event. Although it  happened in the United States, it affects all of us. It is a matter of concern, a shared concern for all of us. As we have  shown during our General Conference, we are here to clarify means and instruments for education and science and  culture that will prevent such occurrences and we have clearly stated that nothing can justify terrorism anywhere, in any  shape or form.
113.1 The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished colleagues, we now come to the last part of our plenary today. Before closing the 31st session of  the General Conference, I have the honour, as I informed the General Committee, to convey to you the message  addressed to the General Conference by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, His Excellency, Mr Seyyed  Mohammad Khatami. However, since I am at one and the same time the medium and the subject of the first paragraph  of the message, it would have been easier for me if a colleague of mine could have read it. But since I have been asked  to read it, I shall do so. Before I start, however, I should explain that there is a longer version of this message that you  will receive immediately after I have finished reading the shorter one.1
113.2 In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam  Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on  successfully concluding the 31st session of the General Conference of UNESCO, which has been held at this critical  juncture of time. I seize this opportunity and, in the name of the Islamic Republic of Iran, extend my gratitude to the  world community for entrusting one of the most proficient and visionary sons of our land with the presidency of the  highest governing body of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Iran, as the cradle of a  great civilization and the historical point of contact among various civilizations and cultures, deeply welcomes and  appreciates this trust, in the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. I am very pleased to hear that the  present session has dialogue among civilizations as one of the strategic objectives of its Medium-Term Strategy, and I  would like to express my profound appreciation of the endeavours of the Director-General, particularly for this cause.
113.3 This session has been held at a time when the world is, more than before, in need of dialogue, prudence and  wisdom. Today there exist the greatest needs, the best opportunities, and, at the same time, the most serious threats in  the way of establishing the “moral and intellectual solidarity of mankind” which is suggested by the Constitution of  UNESCO as the necessary condition for the establishment of a lasting world peace.
113.4 Our greatest concern at the present time is the emergence of circumstances which may darken the prospects of  coexistence and dialogue, as well as human security in general. At the beginning of the third millennium, we cannot  simply overlook the phenomenon of resorting to force and terrorism. If the roots and grounds for such a threat remain in  the world, there is a risk that its effects and consequences will emerge with a redoubled power, which may provoke  various cultures and civilizations into engaging in hostility and conflict. I agree with President Jacques Chirac that the  “clash of civilizations, present and future, will be more radical, more violent and more impassioned”. To control these  very destructive waves, therefore, the whole of humanity must participate, utilizing all its might.
113.5 The insistence on a certain discourse to the exclusion of all others, and the emergence of a highly aberrant and  terrible situation, make the ground fertile for adopting the language of violence, compulsion and terrorism. Such  language leads us into a blind alley, entraps us in a vicious circle and makes violence more radical, more extreme and  more pervasive. Unfortunately, current political discourse at the global level constantly leads to the formation of false  political polarizations and divisions, and thus narrows down the chances for dialogue among civilizations, consequently  endangering the formation of a suitable ground for the growth of common thought and action. Let us all join hands, in  these circumstances, and play a new role together.
113.6 The diagnosis and cure of the ailments of human society must be sought in the domain of the concepts and  styles of thinking which are engraved in the message of the holy prophets and in the teachings of the great humanitarian  scholars and sages. We must recapture the usurped position of morality and spirituality in our world. A world devoid of  spirituality would easily transgress the frontiers of morality and, in an attempt to justify its own misdeeds, would create  further vicious circles of war and destruction. We must pay our debts to reason, emotion, mind and heart before we can  thwart human catastrophe, no matter what name it may assume. Our present world is more in need of a new conceptual  and theoretical order in which the prediction, prevention and cure of human ailments should be dependent upon the  logic of justice, dialogue and understanding rather than on force, war, weaponry and violence. The sum of the speeches
1  The longer version of President Khatami's message was published as document 31 C.INF.30.
603  given during this Conference clearly demonstrates that even in the midst of the recent catastrophic events, conscious  minds and creative, responsible thoughts have their common understanding and emotion alive and intact.
113.7 In the words of a resolution adopted by your General Conference, “while acts of terrorism can never be  justified whatever the motives, the world community requires a global and inclusive vision of development based on the  observance of human rights, mutual respect, intercultural dialogue and the alleviation of poverty, founded on justice,  equity and solidarity, to meet the needs of the most vulnerable populations and segments of society”.
113.8 Let us not allow the fire of anger, rejection and discrimination to flare up again in the world. In a climate of  violence and force, very complex problems seem extremely simple; the basic principles of reason are suspended, and  the real image of the world as it is becomes blurred. These simplifications should not reduce our responsibility. We  must persistently and decisively pursue truth, and thus undermine all violence and crime. We should make no  exceptions. We must utilize a global resolve to eradicate all circumstances and every thought which may lead to  violence, terrorism and compulsion. Violence is obedient to no order, rule or regulation, and to defeat violence through  violence is an illusion.
113.9 Recent developments have manifested the fact that dialogue among civilizations is more than a simple  philosophical, historical or political theory; it is a way to maintain the security of the world. Dialogue is the principal  need of the international community. Various manifestations of this need are evident throughout the world. We cannot  overlook this reality, even if the dominant paradigm and language that rules the world unfortunately speaks about the  clash of civilizations, cultures and even religions. Let us respect the common will of the world. To do this, we must  mainly rely on people of thought and insight. We can, and must, carry out our policies with moral prudence and thus  develop dialogue between cultures and civilizations in all its educational, scientific, cultural and communication  dimensions, within all civil and international institutions. The world longs for justice, security, freedom and spirituality,  and eagerly awaits our efforts in this respect. It is time now for all scholars, artists and scientists to step forward and  assist politicians in their endeavours to avert a confrontation between cultures and civilizations. To accomplish this,  what better, more legitimate and more capable place is there than UNESCO? This is an edifice which originally came  into existence for the defence of “peace in the minds of men”. Now, and in this House, is the time and the place to  organize the will of the world for such a mission. Seyyed Mohammad Khatami, President of the Islamic Republic of  Iran.  (Applause)  CLOTURE DE LA 31e SESSION   CLOSURE OF THE 31st SESSION  CLAUSURA DE LA 31ª REUNIÓN  ЗАКРЫТИЕ СЕССИИ  א אא א א   第三十一届会议闭幕
114. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you for your attention. Distinguished colleagues, I now have the pleasure of giving the floor to the  Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who wishes to address the delegates at the close of this session.
115.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :    Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, à l'issue de cette 31e session de la Conférence générale, je souhaiterais vous exprimer toute ma  gratitude et aussi toute ma satisfaction. En dépit du contexte international difficile, cette Conférence s'est tenue. Je  considère que c'est en soi un signe très fort, le signe que nous avons, ensemble, refusé de céder aux pressions, menaces  et tentatives de déstabilisation qui ont secoué le monde ces dernières semaines. C'est pour moi l'occasion de remercier  l'Etat hôte de l'assistance qu'il nous a prêtée en nous garantissant les meilleures conditions de sécurité sans pour autant  faire peser de contraintes excessives sur le déroulement des travaux. Il n'est certainement pas exagéré de dire que les  regards ont été largement tournés vers nous ces trois dernières semaines. Nous avons en effet été la seule organisation  multilatérale à poursuivre sans aucune perturbation notre travail selon le calendrier prévu, dans un climat serein et  constructif. Nous avons démontré par notre propre comportement combien le dialogue entre les cultures et les  civilisations est non seulement possible, mais fructueux, et peut aboutir à des positions consensuelles sur des questions  de la plus haute importance. Notre condamnation sans réserve du terrorisme s'est donc non seulement exprimée à  travers la résolution que vous avez adoptée, mais aussi à travers notre volonté commune de continuer à débattre des  questions d'éducation, de science, de culture et de communication qui sont soudain passées au premier plan de l'agenda  international.
115.2 Le fort taux de participation, et ce au plus haut niveau, est certainement un autre signal fort que cette  Conférence a lancé. Outre que les chefs d'Etat du Nigéria, de la France et de la Lituanie nous ont rendu visite, les
185 Etats membres présents ont été représentés par un total de 230 ministres ou secrétaires d'Etat ; 2.522 délégués ont  participé aux travaux, ainsi que 30 représentants d'Etats membres associés et d'Etats non membres et 413 observateurs,
12 pour les institutions soeurs des Nations Unies, 57 pour les organisations intergouvernementales et 332 pour les  organisations non gouvernementales. C'est donc au total quelque 3.000 délégués qui ont suivi nos travaux, relayés dans  la presse par quelque 253 journalistes. Ces chiffres parlent d'eux-mêmes, et je crois que nous pouvons tous nous en  féliciter. Je souhaite vous remercier tous d'avoir démontré une fois encore avec tant d'enthousiasme l'attachement que  vous portez à notre Organisation.
115.3 Mon propos n'est certainement pas aujourd'hui de résumer les travaux de la présente session. Trois semaines  d'intense débat et d'interventions passionnantes ne se résument pas. Je voudrais plutôt formuler quelques remarques  personnelles sur ce qui me paraît avoir constitué des avancées majeures pour notre Organisation.
115.4 La première d'entre elles est sans aucun doute à placer au crédit de la fonction normative reconnue à  l'Organisation. Qu'il s'agisse de l'adoption d'instruments définitivement mis au point - comme la Déclaration sur la  diversité culturelle ou la Convention sur le patrimoine culturel subaquatique - ou du feu vert donné à l'Organisation  pour entreprendre l'élaboration ou des études de faisabilité pour l'élaboration d'instruments dans le domaine du  patrimoine immatériel ou de la bioéthique - il est clair qu'une des fonctions reconnue par vous tous à l'UNESCO est  celle de dégager des principes universels et communément admis dans un certain nombre de domaines. Science, culture,  communication : le champ qu'il nous reste à explorer est encore large, et le chemin sera sans doute long, comme pour  toute action normative, avant que nous puissions aboutir, dans chacun des domaines qui le requiert, à des instruments  qui rencontrent l'adhésion de tous. Je pense en particulier au projet sur la promotion et l'usage du multilinguisme et  l'accès universel au cyberespace, pour lequel le débat a révélé que nous avions à mûrir encore notre réflexion et que  nous devions approfondir les consultations.   (The Director-General continues in English)
115.5 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my second observation is that civil society, partnerships, policy dialogue  and intercultural understanding have been words on everyone’s lips. Indeed, the current international situation has  served to underline still more strongly what the Organization has been seeking to do – often with considerable success –  since its inception. The many events that have taken place around this Conference are a good illustration of this  Organization’s long-standing ties with many whom we now consider our “constituencies”. The Youth Forum, the  Round Table of Science Ministers on Bioethics, the first meeting of the High-Level Group on Dakar follow-up, the  meeting on civil society partnerships, the Dialogue with Parliamentarians – all of these were, to my mind, far from  being “on the fringe”. They symbolize what the notion of inclusiveness in international policy dialogue should  encompass and show that UNESCO has perhaps a head start in furthering that dialogue.
115.6 Meanwhile, in the mainstream sessions and commissions of the Conference, there were many calls for such  dialogue and interactions to be extended still further. A number of precise elements for follow-up work are contained in  the commission reports and Conference resolutions. I welcome this, and state my determination to work in earnest with  my colleagues and the Organization’s constituencies and partners to this end.
115.7 My third observation is comparative in nature. During the course of our meetings, I have been struck by the  difference between our situation two years ago and the point we have reached today. We have indeed come a long way  in a short time. And I use the word “we” advisedly, because it has been a joint endeavour. While more remains to be  done, we cannot deny ourselves some satisfaction about how much has already been achieved. In this, I am as gratified  by the process of reform as by its concrete outcomes. It has been a difficult, and sometimes painful, exercise but we  have always been sustained by the goodwill and support of the Member States. UNESCO is a stronger organization than  it was two years ago, and its strength will grow in the future. That strength will be manifest in the Organization’s  improved effectiveness, its greater relevance to the needs of Member States, and its increased accountability and  transparency.
115.8 There remain matters for further development, of course. In this regard, we welcome the interest shown by  some Member States in looking at improvements in UNESCO’s governance structure, in association with the efforts  already made at the Secretariat level.
115.9 To reach this point in two short but intense years has required making many hard choices, especially in terms  of streamlining the planning process and setting clear programme priorities. In this regard, your endorsement of the  strategic priorities and orientations of the Medium-Term Strategy (31 C/4) shows that we are in fundamental agreement  on the way ahead. The strong thematic thrusts adopted by the Organization will galvanize our action in coming years.  The substantive themes of our programmes are exciting, challenging and relevant – education for all, water and human
605  security, the ethics of science and technology, cultural diversity and pluralism, the free flow of ideas and universal  access to information.
115.10 The overarching theme of poverty eradication links our actions to the wider priorities of the United Nations  system as well as to the difficult realities facing many Member States. The cross-cutting theme of information and  communication technologies will engage us with the dynamics of creating a knowledge society. And the humanizing of  globalization will require a commitment to fostering human development that is both sustainable and just. The  constructive debates and exchanges in the commissions confirm us in the belief that we are on track.
115.11 After a period of many changes and, frankly, some residual points of friction between the Secretariat and the  Organization’s governing bodies, it is my feeling that, with this General Conference, we have returned to a more normal  situation. One of UNESCO’s fundamental aims is the encouragement of mutual understanding; I think we have moved  closer to this in our own internal relations. There is now a palpable spirit of mutual respect at large within UNESCO, an  atmosphere of genuine trust and confidence. This is the real platform from which we now embark upon our next crucial  task: implementing the programmes and improvements that have been agreed.
115.12 UNESCO’s vital signs are strong. UNESCO is alive and well, and more fit for its purpose than for many years  past. UNESCO is an organization with many accomplishments to its name. Today, I am convinced that we are on the  brink of the Organization’s next great surge of achievement. Thank you very much.
116.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General, Mr Matsuura for your wise words. It is clear that the good climate  of this session of the General Conference is largely due to your work. We pay tribute to your patience, we respect your  vision and we are all grateful to you for what you have done. We wish you the best, we wish you successful reforms  and, in line with what you have told us about your vision for UNESCO, we wish the best for this Organization. Thank  you very much.
116.2 Dear colleagues, now allow me to say a few words at this ceremony of closure of this session of the General  Conference. I do not know whether I can win an “After Eight” or not, but I would ask for your patience. Thank you.
116.3 In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the closure of this session  of the General Conference, I would be remiss in my duty if I did not express my thanks to all those whose collective  and individual participation have contributed to the success of the 31st session of our General Conference of UNESCO.
116.4 I should like, on your behalf and in my own name, publicly to thank the Heads of State who graced our  General Conference with their august presence here: President Jacques Chirac of France, President Olusegun Obasanjo  of Nigeria and President Valdas Adamkus of Lithuania. To all heads of delegation and distinguished delegates who  attended the session and spared no effort in providing intellectual and positive contributions to our debates and often  difficult negotiations, I wish to say a particular thank you for your precious time and effort. I am deeply grateful to the  Chairpersons of the commissions and committees – Ms Cummins, Ambassador Omolewa, Mr Zagorski-Ostoja,  Ambassador Villarroel, Ambassador Al-Mashat, Ambassador Stanton, Ambassador Mamajonov, Ambassador Galán  Sarmiento, Mr Fernandez and Mr Agnaïeff – for their tireless efforts in resolving often complex issues in the spirit of  consensus. To the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, I wish to extend my special thanks for his steadfast guidance of the  Organization into the new millennium and the important reforms he has initiated towards an organization that is more  relevant to the needs of our time. Ms Sonia Mendieta de Badaroux, Chairperson of the Executive Board, has been a  source of inspiration to all of us during the preparation and the progress of this session of the General Conference.
116.5 The Secretary of the General Conference, Mr Stany Kol, and his entire team have provided me with constant  support and wise counsel throughout this session. I thank them all. A special word of thanks goes to all the Assistant  Directors-General and their staff, who provided invaluable assistance to the commissions and committees. My personal  assistant, Mr Nicholls, and my secretary, Ms Wallart, have been most supportive in running my office.
116.6 As you may be aware, the organization of a session of the General Conference involves the active participation  of several hundred persons whose role often goes unremarked in public. I wish here to acknowledge the contributions of  the team responsible for Conference information, all staff involved in coordinating the great volume of documentation,  our loyal interpreters and those devoted staff responsible for translating, reproducing and distributing documents, as  well as all the technicians responsible for sound, lighting, filming, cinema and all other matters that I may not remember  to mention by name. I wish to express my gratitude to the security officials who have ensured a safe and incident-free  session of the General Conference. My sincere thanks go to the maintenance and cleaning staff, as well as to the  restaurant services for their untiring efforts.
116.7 Dear friends, allow me to make a few comments and observations. The 31st session of the General Conference  this has been without any doubt a very important session of the General Conference, the very first of the new century  and millennium. It has been a General Conference marked by an evolving international context radically transformed by  the tragic events of 11 September and presenting new challenges for the international community. In this context our  General Conference was the first international meeting at the ministerial level to have taken place since 11 September.  It was thus particularly gratifying and reassuring to observe the high level of participation in our general debate, with
121 delegations headed by ministers, more than at the last General Conference, and 159 speakers during the general  policy debate representing 159 Member States. We also had the pleasure of hearing two observers, three  intergovernmental organizations and 15 non-governmental organizations. I consider this very high level of participation  in our debates as a reaffirmation of a vote of confidence by Member States in our Organization.
116.8 At the same time, distinguished colleagues and friends, you accomplished a considerable volume of important  work for the Organization and took a number of significant decisions. While it is inherently difficult to select from  among these decisions, I wish to mention the draft resolution on terrorism, adopted by consensus, and the Draft  Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. Allow me also to mention the presence of ministers  of science who participated in the Round Table on “Bioethics: International Implications” at which UNESCO pursued  its reflection on the dialogue between science and ethics.
116.9 Another important achievement on the occasion of this 31st session of the General Conference was  undoubtedly the prevailing spirit of dialogue that pervaded the general atmosphere of our gathering. This spirit extended  not only to the representatives of governments during their informal and formal consultations, but was also to be  observed among non-governmental organizations and civil society. We were therefore afforded the opportunity of  pursuing an intersectoral dialogue both within UNESCO, but also between UNESCO and its various constituencies and  partners. UNESCO’s moral and ethical role of promoting solidarity was able further to mobilize support from the  interventions of delegates touching all various multifaceted activities of UNESCO. In this regard, I am most encouraged  by the constant support for the continuing dialogue among civilizations, and the UNESCO Universal Declaration on  Cultural Diversity.
116.10 Dear colleagues, I did my best to do my job fairly and justly, but I am an ordinary human, therefore if I failed  to behave as one, I apologize. Please forgive me. In closing, I should like to reaffirm my conviction that this General  Conference has confirmed UNESCO’s role as an Organization with an ethical mission. In the troubled period of our  history that we are currently witnessing, such a mission becomes even more vital. We in this Organization must ensure  that the international community will spare no efforts to prevent any “clash of civilizations”, rather to establish dialogue  between them. We therefore have a renewed moral and categorical imperative. We must not allow UNESCO to fail in  the pursuit of that mission. In the view of a prominent European thinker: We are humans, not animals to tear one  another apart. Let our ideas and theories fight each other and tear one another apart. The clash – if we can use this  term – of theories is not a war, it is education, progress and development. Let us think of them instead of war.
116.11 Distinguished colleagues, I would like to assure you that my role as the President of the General Conference  will not end here and now. I will be ready to be present and contribute to further UNESCO’s main objectives whenever  and wherever necessary, from the highest level of political decision-making down to the field, in close cooperation with  the Director-General. Please help me through your ideas, consultations, friendship, transparent criticism. Please do not  allow me to rest, as well as do not allow the Director-General to rest.
116.12 As I quoted Rumî in my inaugural speech, I would like to do the same in my closing one:  “To speak the same tongue is kinship and affinity: a man, (when he is) with those in whom he cannot confide,  is like a prisoner in chains.  Oh, many are the people from different nations who speak the same tongue, oh, many the pair of the same  tongue who are as strangers (to each other).  Therefore the tongue of mutual understanding is different indeed: to be one in heart is better than to be one in  tongue.  Without speech and without sign or scroll, hundreds of thousands of interpreters arise from the heart.  I will throw word and sound and speech into confusion, that without these three, I may converse with you.  I found true individuality in non-individuality: therefore I move my individuality into non-individuality.”  Dear friends,
607  “Out beyond ideas of wrong doing and right doing, there is a field. I will meet you there.  When the soul lies down in that grass, ideas, language, even the phrase – ‘each other’ does not make any sense.  I will meet you there.” (Rumî)   And finally, as I did not speak in my mother tongue, Persian, during the General Conference, I would like to  end my talk with two lines of Hafez in Persian:  (The President continues in Persian)
(116.13) (Translation from the Persian)  Rose petals let us scatter  And fill the cup with red wine  The firmaments let us shatter  And come with a new design  If sorrow’s soldiers incite  To shed lovers’ blood tonight  With beloved I will unite  And his foundations malign.  (The President continues in English)
116.14 Thank you very much for your patience. It seems that the Director-General has something to say.
117. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:   Thank you very much, Mr President. My last, pleasant duty is to express my thanks and everybody’s thanks to  you, Mr President. You have marvellously chaired this session of the General Conference over the past three weeks.  Thank you, and I would like to report this to President Khatami: Your most proficient and visionary son has done a  good job. And now, as a small token of our gratitude to you, I would like to present you with this beautiful gavel of the  General Conference.  (The Director-General presents the President with a gavel)
118.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I wish you could have given this to me earlier – it is much heavier for closing  discussion on the items! Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. This gavel you have given me will remind me of  the difficult times we have had for the rest of my life – when I was waiting for our Legal Adviser to say something to  save us. I would like to thank him here, and because your intervention just now was the shortest one during our session  I am going to give you the last “After Eight”.
118.2 Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of this 31st session and last  plenary meeting of our General Conference. With your permission, with good heart, good will and good inspiration for  all of us, with best wishes for our Organization and with hopes for a world of peace, for justice, and for a human  approach to all our future problems, I declare this session of the General Conference closed. Thank you very much.  La séance est levée à 14 heures  The meeting rose at 2 p.m.  Se levanta la sesión a las 14.00  Заседание закрывается в 14.00  א א٢,٠٠א   会议于 14 时结束