35    Troisième séance plénière
16 octobre 2001 à 10 h.20  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  Third plenary meeting
16 October 2001 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Tercera sesión plenaria
36  INSCRIPTION DE NOUVEAUX POINTS A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  INCLUSION OF NEW ITEMS IN THE AGENDA  INSCRIPCIÓN DE NUEVOS PUNTOS EN EL ORDEN DEL DÍA  ВКЛЮЧЕНИЕ НОВЫХ ПУНКТОВ В ПОВЕСТКУ ДНЯ  א א   在议程中列入新项目
1.1 The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I invite distinguished delegates to take their places, as we are  already late starting. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the third plenary meeting of the General Conference.
1.2 First we shall adopt the agenda. I should like to inform you that the General Committee of the General  Conference held its first meeting this morning. It recommended that the General Conference add a number of items to  its agenda. I shall now invite the Secretary to present the recommendations of the General Committee on these proposed  new items. Mr Secretary, please.
2. Le SECRETAIRE :   Monsieur le Président, le Bureau recommande à la Conférence générale d’inscrire à son ordre du jour les  nouveaux points suivants : point 5.12, "Proclamation d’une journée mondiale de la science pour la paix et le  développement", confié à l’examen de la Commission III ; point 5.13, "Proposition de création d’un centre international  de rayonnement synchrotron pour les sciences expérimentales et appliquées au Moyen-Orient (SESAME) sous l’égide  de l’UNESCO", également confié à l’examen de la Commission III ; point 5.14, "Situation du Courrier de l’UNESCO",  confié à l’examen de la Commission I ; point 6.5, "Critères et directives concernant l’organisation des voyages du  Président de la Conférence générale", qui serait examiné dans le cadre de la Commission administrative ; point 5.15,  "Association de l’UNESCO à la Capitale mondiale du livre", qui serait examiné par la Commission IV ; point 7.5,  "Amendement au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale (articles 39 et 40 relatifs au Comité du Siège)" qui  serait examiné à la fois par la Commission administrative et par le Comité juridique. Les quatre premiers points ont été  proposés par le Conseil exécutif, le cinquième par l’Espagne et le sixième par la Belgique. Merci, Monsieur le  Président.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you Mr Secretary. In accordance with the recommendation of the General Committee, you are now  asked to place six new items on the agenda. May I remind you that, in accordance with Rule 12 of the Rules of  Procedures of the General Conference, any Member State or Associate Member may, at least six weeks before the date  fixed for the opening of the session, request the inclusion of supplementary items in the agenda and, under Rule 15, new  items of an important and urgent character may be added to the agenda by approval of a two-thirds majority of the  Members present and voting. Are there any objections to placing the six items mentioned on our agenda?
3.2 As I see no objections, the inclusion of these items in the agenda is approved.  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX  ORGANIZATION OF WORK  ORGANIZACIÓN DE LOS TRABAJOS  ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ РАБОТЫ  א   工作安排
4.1 The PRESIDENT:   We shall now take up item 1.6 concerning the organization of the work of the 31st session of the General  Conference. The General Committee has examined the decision of the Executive Board and recommends that the  General Conference approve the proposals contained in documents 31 C/2 and Addendum.
4.2 I should like to inform you that, according to paragraph 4(b) of 160 EX/Decision 6.1.1/6.1.2, “the general  policy debate should be focused on the future policy orientations of the Organization”. The heads of delegation who  take the floor during this debate are therefore invited to devote their statements, or a large proportion of them, to the  proposals contained in the Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007, which is in document 31 C/4, and to the  recommendations of the Executive Board in document 31 C/11. These two documents will also be examined by the  programme commissions, with each commission dealing with the part that particularly concerns it, at the beginning of  their work. A drafting group of 18 Member States will be established at the beginning of the session but it will be open  to all other delegations that wish to take part in its work. It will be entrusted with preparing for the plenary a draft
37  resolution allowing the General Conference to approve the Medium-Term Strategy. The group will take account of  observations made during the general policy debate, the recommendations of the Executive Board in document 31 C/11,  the parts of the programme commission reports dealing with the Medium-Term Strategy, that is to say item 3.1 of the  agenda, and any draft resolutions that may be submitted under that item. The latter should be communicated in writing  to the Secretariat of the General Conference no later than 23 October. Are there any comments or objections in this  regard?
4.3 As I see none, may I take it that the proposals contained in documents 31 C/2 and Addendum are approved?  Thank you. It is so decided.
4.4 I shall now announce the list of speakers of the General Conference. The General Committee today approved  the following lists of speakers for today and tomorrow: for this morning, Saudi Arabia, Uganda, Nigeria and Cuba; for  this afternoon, El Salvador, Belgium, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Iraq, Belarus, Costa Rica,  Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, Russian Federation, India, Sudan, Panama, Lebanon, Uruguay, Japan, Luxembourg,  Armenia and Finland.  INTRODUCTION AU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE  INTRODUCTION TO THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  INTRODUCCIÓN AL DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL  ВВЕДЕНИЕ К ОБСУЖДЕНИЮ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ  א א   总政策辩论引言
5. The PRESIDENT:   We now come to the introduction to the general policy debate, and shall start with item 2.1 of the agenda,  “Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 1998-1999, presented by the Chairperson of the  Executive Board” on behalf of the Board (documents 31 C/3 and 31 C/23) and item 2.2, “Report by the Executive  Board on its own activities in 2000-2001, including its methods of work” (document 31 C/9), also to be introduced by  the Chairperson of the Executive Board. I now invite you to take the floor, Madam.
6.1 Ms MENDIETA de BADAROUX (Honduras), Chairperson of the Executive Board:   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, item 2.1.2, Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in 1998-1999, is  customarily introduced by the Chairperson of the Executive Board. Mr President, in conformity with Article V.B.10 of  the Constitution, I have the honour and pleasure to submit to the General Conference the recommendations by the  Executive Board on the Director-General’s report on the activities of the Organization in 1998-1999. The Board  examined the Director-General’s report at its 161st and 162nd sessions and formulated 161 EX/Decision 3.1.3 and
162 EX/Decision 3.1.3 which are contained in document 31 C/23.
6.2 First and foremost I would like to pay tribute to you, Mr President, for your brilliant election and for your  excellent work on the Executive Board. In view of your commitment to the work of UNESCO, we are confident that  under your guidance we will accomplish the task before us.
6.3 It is a pleasure and a privilege for me, in accordance with UNESCO rules and established practice, to present  the report of the Executive Board on its activities carried out during the present biennium. For the sake of brevity, my  presentation will be an outline of the full report (document 31 C/9 ) that the Executive Board approved by consensus.
6.4 I would like to start by paying tribute to all my colleagues on the Executive Board, whose determination to rise  to the task we were entrusted with has greatly facilitated my duties as Chairperson of the Board.
6.5 Mr President, the work carried out by the Board during the 2000-2001 biennium has marked the transition  from one structure of the Organization to another, just as it has linked one century to another. It was also a period of  mutual adaptation between the newly-appointed Director-General and the Board Members. In view of the expectations  of the Member States regarding the new management and the duties of the Executive Board to monitor programme  implementation, the atmosphere needed was not only one of change but also of sustained harmony and mutual  understanding with the Director-General with a view to grasping the policy of the Organization and achieving its goal- oriented and results-based objectives. The Executive Board can unreservedly look back on its smooth and harmonious  cooperation with the Director-General, who has fully enabled the Executive Board to carry out its monitoring duties.
6.6 Among the multifarious subjects dealt with during the biennium under review, the following subjects may be  regarded as landmarks deserving specific attention: the examination of the reports of the Director-General on the
38  activities of the Organization and the reform process of the Organization. Since these and other subjects on the  execution of the programme are elaborately dealt with in our written report, it will here suffice to discuss each briefly in  turn.
6.7 Under Article V.B of the Constitution, the Executive Board “shall be responsible for the execution of the  programme adopted by the Conference” and “shall take all necessary measures to ensure the effective and rational  execution of the programme by the Director-General”. In pursuance of this provision the Director-General submitted an  interim report to the Executive Board at each session of the 2000-2001 biennium on the functioning of the Organization  and the execution of the programme approved by the General Conference. These reports informed the Members of the  Board concerning the progress of the main features of the programme, with due regard to its administrative and  financial aspects. In the Director-General’s interim reports the following subjects were among the most conspicuous:  the reform process of the Organization, UNESCO’s contribution to poverty eradication, cultural diversity in the context  of globalization, and the Framework for Action of the World Education Forum in Dakar. The Director-General’s  reports were fully debated in the Board’s plenary meetings and by the Programme and External Relations Commission  (PX) and the Finance and Administrative Commission (FA). The ensuing decisions taken on the Director-General’s  reports are discussed in our main document.
6.8 With regard to the reform process of the Organization, the Director-General, upon taking office and in  accordance with the relevant resolutions, launched a wide-ranging programme of reforms aimed at making UNESCO  more efficient and effective by drastically reviewing its staff policy, its structure and its management procedures, and  by introducing a fresh decentralization strategy. This exercise, with its far-reaching, results-based objectives, was  conducted throughout the biennium and sought to arrive at a clear vision of the activities, priorities and aims of the  Organization, and of the means required to achieve those aims.
6.9 At successive sessions of the Board, the PX Commission and the FA Commission closely monitored the  progress made on the reform process, and made recommendations to the Executive Board accordingly. The debates  within these bodies underlined the strong and sustained interest of Member States on the Board in the three main areas  of reform, that is, staff, oversight and decentralization.
6.10 Decentralization was among the main issues at all the sessions of the Board and prompted a number of  questions about the costs of this initiative, its practical impact on Member States’ contributions and projections, and the  efficiency and effectiveness arising from the proposed reform measures. The Director-General was advised to ensure  that the new decentralization policy, which involved the closing of field units, would not hamper the implementation of  UNESCO activities aimed at meeting the needs of the poorest regions of the world.
6.11 Thus, the reform process was for UNESCO a process of radical reflection, to enable the Organization to renew  and readapt itself in keeping with the changes taking place in the world. After examining the report on the reform  process submitted by the Director-General at its 161st session, the Executive Board expressed its satisfaction at the  progress made on the implementation of the new staff measures, the introduction of annual and long-range oversight  plans, and the new decentralization strategy.
6.12 Mr President, in pursuance of 30 C/Resolution 51, the Director-General has devised a comprehensive strategy  to enhance UNESCO's image and the visibility of its action. The Board welcomed the decisions taken by the Director- General to further these objectives, concerning a transparent, worldwide communication and information policy, and  invited the Director-General to submit to the Board, at its 164th session, a comprehensive and detailed proposal for the  implementation of a communication and public information strategy.
6.13 Mr President, after examining the Director-General’s preliminary proposals concerning the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2002-2003, the Executive Board approved his suggestion that absolute priority and increased financial  resources should be given to five major fields of action, namely, basic education for all, water resources and  ecosystems, the ethics of science and technology, cultural diversity, linguistic pluralism and intercultural dialogue, and  broader access to information, in particular information in the public domain. The Board requested the Director-General  to consider the possibility of mobilizing extrabudgetary funds for the Participation Programme.
6.14 The Members of the Executive Board expressed satisfaction at the progress achieved in the presentation,  readability and results orientation of document 31 C/5, and the innovation adopted regarding a series of interdisciplinary  and intersectoral projects, and decided to transmit to the General Conference the Draft Programme and Budget for
2002-2003 with its own recommendations regarding the five major programmes of UNESCO.
6.15 Mr President, during the past biennium, two thematic debates were organized on issues of major interest. The  object of these debates was to enable the Board to reaffirm its intellectual and ethical function and its role as a forum for  future-oriented reflection and identification of the strategic options of the Organization, and to find ways of helping
39  UNESCO to adapt to the new realities, particularly at a time when the reform process was under way. The debates were  preceded by addresses on the part of eminent personalities who had been invited for the occasion.
6.16 The first debate was on UNESCO in a globalizing world. It highlighted both the potential benefits for and the  threats to societies that were inherent in the current process of globalization, in which the economic dimension plays a  dominant role. Many Board Members were of the opinion that UNESCO should play a dual role with regard to  globalization, by countering its pernicious effects and by helping deprived peoples to benefit from its advantages.
6.17 The second thematic debate was on the new information and communication technologies (ICTs) for the  development of education, science and culture. The debate brought out the diversity and complementarity of the various  approaches to the new information and communication technologies. The great majority of the inhabitants of the planet  do not have access to these technologies, and there are reasons to fear that the digital revolution under way may further  exacerbate inequalities. Since the spectacular advances in communication are clearly within UNESCO’s fields of  competence, the Organization has a specific role to play in helping to overcome the digital divide with regard to  infrastructure and equipment while taking care to safeguard cultural pluralism.
6.18 Mr President, with regard to the eradication of poverty, it should be stated that the Executive Board discussed  this cross-cutting theme at practically all the sessions of the biennium. The eradication of poverty was generally  acknowledged as one of the main challenges confronting UNESCO, and it was emphasized that this should be reflected  in all UNESCO’s activities. The Board invited the Director-General to elaborate a strategy and preliminary programme  for UNESCO on development and poverty eradication, using a strongly interdisciplinary approach coordinated by the  Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme and including the examination of education as a tool; and  to provide the human and budgetary resources necessary for their implementation.
6.19 The Executive Board, in transmitting the draft Medium-Term Strategy to the General Conference for approval,  recommended that it welcomes and endorses the strategy and its focus on the eradication of poverty, especially extreme  poverty, which should enable UNESCO to contribute constructively in its areas of competence to the implementation of  the United Nations Millennium Declaration and especially its central goal of halving poverty by 2015.
6.20 Mr President, in view of the need for forward-looking reflection on UNESCO’s mission and objectives for the  twenty-first century, the Executive Board set up a task force consisting of 18 Member States. Its terms of reference were  to identify the new challenges that UNESCO was facing in the new century and to propose a strategic vision focused on  the Organization’s objectives, its programmes and its activities together with a modernization of structure and  management that would allow the Organization to fulfil its mission with maximum efficiency and effectiveness. The  Board endorsed the recommendations of the report submitted and requested the Director-General to consider them  during the preparation of the Medium-Term Strategy and subsequent programmes and budgets.
6.21 Over the past biennium, the continued efforts by the Executive Board to renew and improve its working  methods have had a positive impact on the Organization and functioning of the work of its commissions and  committees. The major innovations introduced as regards programme concentration, budgeting/follow-up and the  search for consistency of objectives have resulted in significant progress towards a more results-oriented approach to  decision-making. I would here like to express my appreciation to the chairpersons of the commissions and committees  for skilfully and patiently coping with their heavy workloads of multifarious subjects and documents covering all the  sectors of the Organization in the little time at their disposal.
6.22 Mr President, as regards financial and administrative matters, I would like to express gratitude to the group of  experts, whose preparatory work greatly facilitated the work of the Board. The problems linked to the question of staff  have been resolved, following the approval by the Executive Board of the timetable for the implementation of a new  policy introduced as part of the Organization’s reform process. In this context, the Member States have stressed the  need to take into account recruitment criteria, training, new career opportunities for staff members, conditions  governing the use of consultants and the introduction of an updated management system aimed at establishing effective  procedures for the delegation of power and for accountability within the Secretariat.
6.23 With regard to the reports by the Director-General on the execution of the programme adopted by the General  Conference, the Board noted with satisfaction the improvement in the Organization’s financial situation. The Board  congratulated the Director-General on the planned measures to improve the flow of information between the Secretariat  and Member States and to provide on a regular basis more useful and up-to-date information on the management and  execution of the programme. It was decided to include that matter in the agenda of the Board’s 166th session in order to  consider the progress made and any innovations needing to be introduced in the future.
6.24 The External Auditor’s recommendations concerning the 1994-1995, 1996-1997 and 1998-1999 bienniums and  his strategic plan for 2000-2005 have been studied in depth over the last three bienniums. As regards the financial  period ended 31 December 1999, the FA Commission discussed the restrictions formulated by the External Auditor
40  concerning two questions in respect of which he had reported significant departures from the powers conferred upon the  Director-General by the General Conference, namely, promotion to high-level posts and the Participation Programme.
6.25 Among UNESCO’s essential partners are, indisputably, the international non-governmental organizations  (NGOs). They have the advantage of representing the vital link with civil society that has been developed and  consolidated considerably over the years. Since its inception, the Organization has continued to welcome in its midst an  increasing number of NGOs working in fields within its remit and pursuing similar goals. Their growing collaboration  with UNESCO also reflects their wish for greater recognition as reliable partners in the search for solutions to the  current problems.
6.26 During the 2000-2001 biennium, the NGO Committee examined, at the request of the Executive Board,  various questions relating to UNESCO-NGO cooperation, including material and financial arrangements, the allotment  to NGOs of office accommodation at Headquarters, and the classification of NGOs and their admission to operational  relations.
6.27 During the 160th session of the Executive Board, the Committee organized a round table on the theme  “Culture and solidarity: the role of the NGOs – changing perceptions through the cultural dimension”. This event  brought together the representatives of 17 Member States, 41 NGOs and a number of interested Secretariat services. It  provided the occasion for exchanging experience and practical perceptions, on the basis of activities carried out in  different regions of the world, of the cultural and human dimensions of the fight against extreme poverty and exclusion.
6.28 Mr President, at each of the sessions of the Executive Board the Committee on Conventions and  Recommendations continued its examination in private meetings of the communications received by UNESCO relating  to alleged violations of human rights within the Organization’s fields of competence and submitted to it pursuant to
104 EX/Decision 3.3. At its 162nd session, it held a special meeting to examine questions relating to its working  methods.
6.29 Most of the States accused have in practice agreed to cooperate with the Committee, either by replying in  writing to the allegations or by being represented at the meetings at which the communications concerning them were  examined. While the Committee has not yet managed to resolve many cases, despite its persistent endeavours, there are  grounds for satisfaction in its having brought about the release or return to their country of some of the alleged victims  and having succeeded in alleviating the detainment conditions of others. In keeping with its humanitarian mission, the  Committee addressed numerous letters to the governments of the countries concerned, if only to express its concern at  the state of the alleged victims’ health and to ask that they be given proper medical treatment. In some cases, the  Committee called on the Director-General to make representations to the Head of the State concerned on behalf of the  alleged victims.
6.30 As regards UNESCO’s cooperation with the United Nations system, the Board encouraged the Director- General to continue his cooperation with the United Nations on promoting a culture of peace, and also invited the  Member States and all partners of UNESCO to strengthen their commitment in this respect during the International  Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World (2001-2010).
6.31 With regard to the strategic plan of action of the United Nations system for HIV/AIDS for 2000-2005, the  Board reaffirmed the importance of UNESCO’s contribution to this plan and endorsed UNESCO’s Five-year Strategic  Plan of Action to develop HIV/AIDS preventive education, inviting the Director-General to ensure adequate financial  and human resources for its implementation.
6.32 Mr President, the Board gave its full attention to the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination,  Xenophobia and Related Intolerance that was held in Durban from 31 August to 7 September 2001. Taking note of the  United Nations General Assembly resolutions on this matter, the Board recalled the long-standing action of UNESCO  in the struggle against racism and racial discrimination, its Convention against Discrimination in Education, and its  Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice. The Board welcomed the convening of the World Conference against  Racism and reaffirmed UNESCO’s firm position against racism formulated in Article I of its Constitution, which  stipulates that human rights and fundamental freedoms should be affirmed for the peoples of the world, without  distinction of race, sex, language or religion. The Board Members expressed their satisfaction at the extent of  UNESCO’s participation and its significant role at this Conference. With regard to the responsibility assigned to  UNESCO in the follow-up to the Conference, the Director-General was invited to contribute to the implementation of  the decisions and recommendations adopted by the World Conference.
6.33 The activities carried out during the past biennium should generate a certain degree of satisfaction at the results  obtained. Through their good will, understanding and cooperation, the Members of the Board have managed  collectively to accomplish their duties, among other things in contributing towards adapting the Organization to the  pace of the times and preparing it for taking up the challenges of the new century. The landmark steps that have been
41  accomplished at the start of this new millennium, when the Organization finds itself at a crossroads with a fresh image,  should instil in us optimism about the realization of the Organization’s goals and prospects. The Executive Board for  this biennium is proud to have been part of this successful process of renewal. We hope that the new management team  will assist the Organization in sustaining its rightful place in the United Nations system. Thank you for your attention.  (Mme Mendieta de Badaroux poursuit en français)
6.34 Monsieur le Président je voudrais d'autre part informer la Conférence générale que le Conseil exécutif a adopté  à sa dernière séance, le vendredi 12 octobre 2001, la décision 3.1.1 (partie I) dont le texte sera distribué dans quelques  instants à toutes les délégations sous la cote 31 C/9 Add.  (Ms Mendieta de Badaroux continues in English)
6.35 Mr President, before leaving this rostrum, I would beg your indulgence to share with you some brief personal  remarks. In the tradition of our Organization, general conferences are major events, as they map out the way forward for  the period ahead. Conferences are generally viewed with a great deal of optimism at what can potentially be achieved.  At them participants customarily reaffirm their commitment to intensifying their efforts, strengthening their national  policies and providing assistance for resolving the problems identified.
6.36 This Conference should be no exception and, as we are getting ready to tackle the issues on our agenda, we are  again faced with the recurrent and perennial issues of poverty and illiteracy. These evils are inseparably related, and  their defeat is the conditio sine qua non, the mainstay of human development and human dignity. In other words,  empowering the poor through basic education is tantamount to fighting poverty.
6.37 Mr President, we involuntarily ask ourselves, in the wake of so many past commitments, why it is that, as late  as the twenty-first century, illiteracy is still one of the major scourges in the world, why hunger continues to decimate  entire populations, and why an enormous number of people are still living beneath the poverty line. This is even more  disturbing when we learn from the most recent figures on poverty and illiteracy that half the world’s population - nearly  three billion people - live on less than two dollars a day; that the gross domestic product of the poorest 48 nations, that  is, a quarter of the world’s countries, is less than the combined wealth of the world’s three richest people; that nearly a  billion people - two thirds of them are women, and their number is growing - entered the twenty-first century unable to  read a book or sign their names; that the lives of millions of children are lost because the world’s governments have  failed to reduce poverty levels; that of all human rights failures, those in economic and social areas affect by far the  largest number and are the most widespread among the world’s nations; that approximately 790 million people in the  developing world are still chronically undernourished; and that 7 million children die each year as a result of the debt  crisis. Mr President, it is common knowledge that the E-9 countries alone comprise two thirds of the world’s adult  illiterates, that is, about 600 million people. Many of these illiterates are women, who are deprived of their fundamental  right to education and mostly excluded from participation in economic, social and cultural life, and implicitly prevented  from making their contribution to national development.
6.38 The possible solutions to these problems have been grievously set back and complicated by another deadly  enemy, the HIV/AIDS virus, which is causing havoc in the developing world. This plague, too, has already been the  subject of several conferences, seminars and workshops throughout the world. However, the prospects are still dim, and  we almost find ourselves in a blind alley.
6.39 Mr President, on several occasions I have called attention to the picture of human tragedy that we have become  all too familiar with, namely the sight of a human being suffering on account of poverty or AIDS. Although, by and  large, there seem to be some slight improvements, this picture is still very grim and far from encouraging. It readily  evokes the ever-widening gap between the more affluent and the poorer classes of societies. Although we are touched  by images of the shrunken frames of dying infants that we continually witness, they do not, as a rule, seem to generate  prompt reactions or actions among those of us that can help to make a difference. While this may not be attributable to  any lack of commitment, it may be explained by a lack of perception about the notion of poverty. Owing to the  structural neglect in eliminating this evil, the word “poverty” has come to be regarded as a concept rather than as a state  of existence that is as painful as it is humiliating. The achievements of the welfare State, notably the great strides in  technological development, do not appear to be on a par with the development of a moral sense that would be beneficial  to all humankind.
6.40 Mr President, as I am completing my mandate as Chairperson of the Executive Board, I consider this forum a  good opportunity once more to call the attention of the international community to the urgency of eliminating these  perennial problems in the course of our deliberations on the Executive Board, which represents a cross-section of the  cultures and civilizations of the world. These issues have figured high on our agenda, and the discussions about them  and my missions to Latin America, Africa and Asia have sharpened my perception about the urgency of redressing them.  The solutions to these global problems are at the very root of the dialogue among civilizations and the sustainability or
42  survival of cultures. Within our power and our means, we should demonstrate our political will and our commitment to  meaningful multilateral development cooperation by coming to the rescue of the afflicted developing world. With our  collective consciousness and our humanity, this General Conference should enable us to establish with determination  what contribution we can make and what strategies we can apply to assist in creating a world of justice, a world without  poverty, especially for the most vulnerable groups, that is to say, indigenous peoples, geographically dispersed  populations, urban and marginalized groups and poor women with no primary education. Given the magnitude of  today’s challenges, I hope the developed world will assume and sustain an ethical role for itself by striving to help the  developing world to foster a new global vision of development.
6.41 Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to quote from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which  states inter alia that “(…) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of  himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services (…)”. “(…)  Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for  human rights and fundamental freedoms (…)”. I thank you for your attention.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson, for your very rich presentation. Allow me, Madam, to  congratulate you for this excellent report and for the work accomplished by the Members of the Board during the past  biennium. I would like personally to thank you for your kind words towards me. Ever since I met you I have been  inspired by your sincere spirit of cooperation and your devotion to this House and this has been, and will be in the  future, a good learning experience for me. Your report showed how heavy a workload the Board has had and how many  different serious matters it has had on its agenda. You conducted the Board’s work most ably.
7.2 I would like here to mention especially the forward-looking reflection orientation of this House to which you  referred and also to stress your significant initiative in organizing debates on such important issues as globalization,  bearing in mind the role of UNESCO in humanizing globalization. I am sure that, as part of UNESCO’s intellectual  mission, debates of this kind will have a positive impact on our scrutiny of other issues in the course of our work. And  your personal remarks indicated that, of course, although your term of office as Chairperson of the Board is coming to  an end, your interest in UNESCO’s concerns and human issues will endure – such difficult issues as AIDS in Africa and  elsewhere, hunger, illiteracy, poverty, women’s issues and others, which call for the mobilization of forces within  UNESCO so that action can be taken. I would like to thank you very much, again, for your dedication and for your  presentation, and wish you every success in your pursuit of UNESCO’s goals wherever you may be.
7.3 You mentioned an addendum to document 31 C/9 which contains a draft resolution on a very important issue  which will shortly be distributed to the distinguished delegates. Of course, Members of the Board are aware of its  contents because it was discussed in the Board, but for many of you it is a new issue and I realize that some  distinguished delegates have some observations to make. I would like to read it and think about it and I will be  establishing some kind of consultative body or working group in order to reach the best consensus before putting it to  you in this plenary.
7.4 Now I would like to invite you to turn your attention to paragraph 8 of document 31 C/9 which contains a draft  resolution whereby the General Conference thanks the Board and its Chairperson for the excellent work accomplished  in 2000-2001 and invites the Board to ensure that it is represented in the commissions of the General Conference. This  will give us the opportunity to express our gratitude for the work done by the Board. Are there any objections? I see  none. The draft resolution is therefore adopted.
7.5 Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that I intend to consult the General  Conference in the next few days on the addendum I mentioned. You will be informed of the results of my consultations.  I now invite the Director-General to take the floor and present his introduction to the general policy debate.  Mr Director-General, the floor is yours, Sir.
8.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les ministres, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, Il y a plus de cinquante ans, des hommes se réveillaient sur  les décombres … Plus jamais ça, avaient-ils dit.
8.2 Notre Organisation est née de leur détermination à dépasser la logique de guerre en créant les conditions d'un  dialogue confiant entre les peuples. Le message de notre Acte constitutif nous est apparu d'une cruelle actualité, le
11 septembre dernier, quand la violence et le fanatisme aveugles ont atteint un nouveau seuil dans l'intolérable.
8.3 Depuis un peu plus d'un mois, partout dans le monde, on s'interroge, on tente d'avancer des explications. Pour  certains, nous assisterions au premier acte d'une tragédie déjà écrite, le "choc des civilisations", conclusion inéluctable  d'un long processus historique. D'autres, atteints de myopie, érigent l'amalgame en mode de pensée : terrorisme et Islam
43  seraient pour eux indissociables. Il y a également ceux qui cherchent à établir une hiérarchie entre les différentes  cultures et les différentes religions. Beaucoup, et c'est sans doute le plus grand nombre, désespèrent des promesses que  semblait porter le nouveau millénaire. Autant d'hypothèses fallacieuses ou désespérées, qu'il nous faut condamner ou  rejeter.
8.4 En créant l'Organisation des Nations Unies, la communauté internationale nous a donné une raison d'espérer.  Elle s'est en effet dotée d'un lieu où débattre, collectivement, des moyens d'agir, et de textes juridiques, de portée  universelle, qui lui permettent de faire face à des actes qui, s'ils restaient impunis, créeraient les conditions d'un nouvel  embrasement généralisé.
8.5 Au sein de ce système, l'UNESCO a un rôle important à jouer, même si son action ne s'inscrit pas dans le court  terme. En effet, pour être durablement efficaces, les indispensables initiatives politiques, diplomatiques, sécuritaires et  financières qui sont en train d'être prises par la communauté internationale doivent être complétées par d'autres, à  dimension "culturelle". De la même manière qu'il faut s'appliquer à tarir les sources de financement de ce nouveau  terrorisme international et à démanteler ses réseaux actifs, il faut combattre les alibis culturels et idéologiques dont il se  pare pour trouver des soutiens et développer son implantation. Il est faux et même dangereux de considérer l'exclusion,  la discrimination, la pauvreté comme les racines du terrorisme. Il faut cependant bien constater que ces fléaux servent  de prétexte à ceux qui recherchent des fantassins pour la guerre personnelle qu'ils mènent contre l'humanité.
8.6 Raison de plus pour redoubler d'efforts, et tenter d'y apporter une réponse à la fois cohérente et globale.  L'Organisation des Nations Unies, et la constellation d'institutions qui lui sont attachées, constituent précisément le lieu  où peut être forgée cette réponse cohérente et globale. Et c'est probablement le sens qu'il faut donner à l'octroi du prix  Nobel de la paix conjointement à l'ONU et à son Secrétaire général "pour leur travail en faveur d'un monde mieux  organisé et plus pacifique". Ce prix consacre de manière éclatante la conviction que la paix et la sécurité internationales  ne peuvent aujourd'hui résulter que d'une volonté collective, concertée et organisée à l'échelle mondiale. C'est l'occasion  pour nous tous de réaffirmer notre engagement en faveur de la coopération multilatérale, qui est à l'évidence le seul  cadre pour appréhender et traiter les problèmes d'un monde en voie de globalisation. C'est aussi l'occasion pour moi de  féliciter chaleureusement Kofi Annan pour cette distinction qui nous honore tous.
8.7 Ces tragiques événements auront soudain placé les valeurs qui sont au coeur de la mission de l'UNESCO - la  tolérance, le dialogue, le respect et la compréhension mutuels, en un mot la culture de la paix - au premier rang des  priorités internationales. C'est bien le message qu'entendait porter l'Année pour le dialogue entre les civilisations que  nous célébrons en 2001. Il n'en est que plus actuel. Nous devons redoubler d'efforts pour renforcer non seulement la  connaissance et la compréhension de la diversité des cultures, mais aussi l'aptitude à accepter l'Autre, dans sa  différence, et à l'accueillir dans une volonté de "vivre ensemble" qui est aujourd'hui ce dont nous avons le plus besoin.
8.8 Bien sûr, l'UNESCO se devra de faire plus, et mieux encore, pour progresser vers cet objectif qu'elle poursuit  depuis sa création. Nous ne pourrons certainement pas faire l'économie d'un réexamen en profondeur des moyens à  mettre en oeuvre pour atteindre ceux que, visiblement, nous n'avons pas su convaincre. Il ne s'agit pas de réinventer ce  qui existe, mais de reconsidérer, à la lumière des événements récents et des enseignements que nous devons en tirer, nos  modalités d'action et les publics que nous devons toucher.
8.9 Plus généralement, il nous faudra participer à la mise en place, à l'échelon international, des instruments d'un  nouveau mode de dialogue. Au-delà du dialogue entre Etats, dont les rouages sont aujourd'hui relativement bien huilés,  il nous faudra inventer les règles d'un dialogue entre les Etats et ces expressions encore diffuses de ce qu'on appelle  désormais les "sociétés civiles". C'est là une tâche qui attend les Nations Unies dans leur ensemble, si elles veulent  relever les défis de la mondialisation. L'UNESCO, qui entretient de longue date une relation quasi symbiotique avec les  organisations non gouvernementales et les communautés intellectuelles et professionnelles, pourra contribuer utilement  à ce débat.
8.10 Monsieur le Président, cette 31e session de la Conférence générale est saisie d'un document - la Stratégie à  moyen terme pour 2002-2007 - qui incarne notre vision du rôle et des responsabilités de l'UNESCO en ce début de  XXIe siècle. Cette vision a pris corps au cours des deux années écoulées, mais les événements de ces dernières  semaines sont venus apporter, hélas, une tragique confirmation de son actualité. Elle est tout entière ordonnée autour de  la promotion de deux principes aussi fondamentaux qu'indissociables : l'universalité et la diversité. Il s'agit là, certes,  d'une tension qui a inspiré l'action de l'UNESCO depuis sa fondation, mais qui revêt une signification nouvelle à l'heure  de la mondialisation.
8.11 Au moment où se dessinent les contours d'un système qui, en deçà et au-delà des relations interétatiques,  devient à proprement parler mondial, le besoin se fait sentir, dans de nombreux domaines de la vie économique, sociale  et culturelle, de définir de nouvelles règles du jeu, d'établir des normes et des principes de régulation, ou tout  simplement de fonctionnement, qui puissent être acceptables par tous, parce qu'ils reposent sur des valeurs reconnues et  partagées par tous.
8.12 L'universalité est sans doute aujourd'hui le véritable enjeu de la mondialisation, pour autant qu'on veuille que la  mondialisation bénéficie à tous et à l'humanité tout entière. C'est particulièrement vrai dans les domaines qui concernent  l'UNESCO : dans un contexte de dérégulation et de privatisation croissante des différentes sphères de la vie sociale,  l'UNESCO doit s'apprêter à défendre l'éducation, la science et la culture comme des biens particuliers, porteurs de  valeurs et de sens, qui doivent être préservés au nom de l'humanité dans son ensemble. Je suis convaincu que  l'UNESCO sera ainsi appelée, dans les années à venir, à renforcer très sensiblement son action normative, pour protéger  et consolider ce qu'il est désormais convenu d'appeler "les biens publics communs".
8.13 Mais cette universalité ne peut plus être aujourd'hui pensée que dans le contexte de la reconnaissance de la  diversité - diversité des besoins et des aspirations, des environnements et des modes de vie, des systèmes de pensée et  de croyances. La gestion harmonieuse de la diversité, dans un sens qui soit respectueux de l'éthique et des intérêts de  l'humanité prise dans son ensemble, est sans doute le défi le plus pressant pour la communauté internationale.
8.14 Dans ce contexte, le rôle traditionnel de l'UNESCO - de création, de sauvegarde, de diffusion et de partage du  savoir - revêt une nouvelle actualité, puisqu'il s'agit d'assurer la participation du plus grand nombre à l'orientation et au  progrès de ces sociétés dites "de la connaissance", où le savoir devient le moteur du développement. Il importe de  s'assurer que chaque individu et chaque société accèdent de manière équitable à l'information et aux compétences que  requiert ce développement fondé sur la connaissance.
8.15 Telle est la mission qui, à mon sens, s'impose pour l'UNESCO en ce début de XXIe siècle. Ordonnée autour de  ces trois axes stratégiques que sont la promotion de l'universalité, la protection de la diversité et le partage du savoir,  elle se fixe pour objectif prioritaire l'élimination de la pauvreté. La mondialisation, qui a créé des richesses et un bien- être sans précédent pour certains, est pourtant synonyme de marginalisation, d'exclusion, et de privations accrues pour  beaucoup d'autres, qui représentent en fait la majeure partie de l'humanité. La persistance de la pauvreté, et surtout de  l'extrême pauvreté, est un déni fondamental de justice, et une offense à la dignité humaine. Son élimination est le  premier pas dans la voie d'une mondialisation à visage humain. Il s'agira pour l'UNESCO d'intégrer les objectifs qui lui  sont propres, ceux de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de la communication, dans les stratégies de lutte contre  la pauvreté mises en oeuvre aux niveaux national et international, en vue de donner à chaque groupe, et à chaque  individu, y compris les plus marginalisés, la possibilité d'opérer ses propres choix, et de participer à la construction des  sociétés en devenir.
8.16 Pour ce faire, les nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication représentent un potentiel  inédit. Si l'élargissement de la fracture numérique doit être évité à tout prix, les nouvelles technologies peuvent  constituer un levier extrêmement puissant pour promouvoir, à une échelle encore sans précédent, l'échange et la  diffusion du savoir, l'éducation et la formation, la promotion de la créativité et du dialogue interculturel. Dans les  années à venir, l'UNESCO devrait se faire le pionnier de cette "nouvelle donne" qu'apportent les nouvelles technologies  de l'information et de la communication, en explorant les potentialités qu'elles offrent pour progresser vers un monde  plus équitable et vers des sociétés plus participatives et plus solidaires - en un mot vers une mondialisation à visage  humain.
8.17 Dans ce projet, l'UNESCO n'est pas seule. Elle n'est qu'un instrument dans une partition beaucoup plus vaste.  Elle ne saurait non plus être tout pour tout le monde. Aussi devrons-nous nous resserrer toujours davantage sur ce qui  fait notre avantage comparatif, en nous constituant en foyer d'identification et de diffusion de la meilleure expertise  mondiale, en plate-forme de dialogue politique et d'échanges interdisciplinaires, et en catalyseur de la coopération  internationale dans nos domaines de compétence.
8.18 C'est ce qui m'a conduit, dans mes propositions pour les deux années à venir, à centrer les efforts et les  ressources sur cinq domaines d'action considérés comme absolument prioritaires : l'éducation de base ; les ressources en  eau et les écosystèmes ; l'éthique des sciences et des technologies ; la diversité, le pluralisme et le dialogue  interculturel ; et l'accès à l'information pour tous, en particulier l'information du domaine public.
8.19 Monsieur le Président, cette vision de l'UNESCO dans les premières années du XXIe siècle était déjà en  gestation quand je me suis exprimé devant vous pour la première fois il y a deux ans. Elle s'est bien sûr enrichie  considérablement pendant ces deux années, grâce aux débats qui ont eu lieu au sein du Conseil exécutif et de son  Equipe spéciale de réflexion sur l'UNESCO au XXIe siècle, grâce aussi aux diverses consultations qui ont été lancées  auprès des Etats membres et de leurs commissions nationales, et grâce à l'intense travail qu'a fourni le Secrétariat. Cette  vision, qui vous est proposée dans la Stratégie à moyen terme, a commencé à prendre forme et vie à travers l'action  menée au cours des deux années passées. Et le thème fédérateur de la présente session de notre Conférence générale   - vivre ensemble dans notre diversité - est superbement illustré par l'exposition que nous avons inaugurée hier soir.
8.20 C'est pourquoi je suis particulièrement heureux que l'UNESCO soit aujourd'hui prête à proposer le premier  texte de portée internationale traitant de la diversité culturelle et de la multiplicité des aspects qu'elle recouvre. Ce  texte est le fruit d'un processus de coopération exemplaire entre le Secrétariat, le Conseil exécutif et les Etats membres
45  dans leur ensemble. Le projet de Déclaration qui vous est transmis par le Conseil exécutif a fait l'objet d'un consensus  large et fort. Nous pouvons donc tous, collectivement, être fiers de ce résultat. Il atteste que l'UNESCO a su se saisir à  temps d'une question qui se révèle aujourd'hui être au coeur des préoccupations internationales. Son élaboration a été  longue, puisqu'il a fallu concilier des points de vue au départ très différents. En lui-même, il témoigne d'une approche  de la diversité qui en fait un facteur d'inclusion, et non de division. Comprendre, respecter, stimuler la diversité en  même temps que le "vouloir vivre ensemble", c'est en quelques mots le corps de cette Déclaration, qui devrait pouvoir  tenir lieu de boussole pour naviguer sur les eaux mouvantes de la mondialisation. Et si elle constitue un acquis  intellectuel majeur, elle représente aussi un engagement politique de première importance. Il me reste à souhaiter qu'au- delà du cadre de référence éthique qu'elle constitue, elle puisse revêtir un jour la même force que la Déclaration  universelle des droits de l'homme. Au lendemain des événements tragiques du 11 septembre et de ce qui s'en est suivi,  sa pertinence n'est que plus évidente.
8.21 C'est à la lumière de cette déclaration que doit être comprise l'action de l'UNESCO en faveur du patrimoine.  Car notre conception du patrimoine est tout sauf mémorialiste. C'est parce que le patrimoine est le creuset où se sont  réunies, à un moment donné de l'histoire, de multiples influences et sources d'inspiration, qu'il peut être aujourd'hui le  symbole d'une identité à la fois commune et plurielle, d'où peuvent jaillir les forces vives de la créativité. Au regard de  la diversité culturelle, et dans sa fonction de continuité entre les générations, le patrimoine immatériel revêt une  importance fondamentale, alors même qu'il constitue sans doute l'aspect le plus vulnérable de l'identité culturelle des  peuples. Dans bien des endroits du monde, et en particulier dans les pays en développement, ce patrimoine est en péril.  Alors que nous avons su mettre en place des dispositifs efficaces pour la protection du patrimoine matériel, le  patrimoine immatériel est resté le "parent pauvre" de notre action. Il m'a donc semblé nécessaire et urgent de proposer  le principe de l'élaboration d'un instrument international pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, et, en  complément de cette action normative, qui s'inscrit nécessairement dans le long terme, d'intervenir par une action  immédiate.
8.22 Vous avez tous à l'esprit la première Proclamation des chefs-d'oeuvre du patrimoine oral et immatériel de  l'humanité, qui a eu lieu ici même, au Siège, en mai dernier, et qui a été une première réponse à cette urgence. Vous  aurez d'ailleurs l'occasion de découvrir quelques-uns de ces chefs-d'oeuvre au cours de trois soirées exceptionnelles qui  vous seront offertes, la première ce soir, et les autres au cours des prochaines semaines. La deuxième Proclamation aura  lieu en mai 2003. J'espère que vous serez nombreux à proposer des candidatures et que nous pourrons proclamer un  bien plus grand nombre de chefs-d'oeuvre à cette occasion. Je crois que tout ce travail, effectué par étapes, contribuera à  éclairer la réflexion de la Conférence générale sur le nouvel instrument normatif pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  immatériel qui est appelé, à terme, à devenir le complément de la Convention du patrimoine mondial de 1972. Il va de  soi que l'UNESCO évitera tout double emploi avec le travail mené par d'autres institutions, notamment l'OMPI, tout en  maintenant une étroite coordination avec cette dernière.
8.23 Un autre domaine qui requiert notre action urgente, du fait des menaces de pillage qui pèsent sur lui, est le  patrimoine subaquatique. Avec la Convention sur la protection du patrimoine culturel subaquatique, dont le texte vous  est proposé au terme d'un long processus d'élaboration qui s'est étalé sur plus de quatre ans, nous disposerons d'un  arsenal complet d'instruments normatifs visant à protéger le patrimoine matériel. C'est pourquoi j'attache la plus grande  importance à ce que cette Convention soit adoptée au cours de la présente session.
8.24 Si j'insiste tant sur le patrimoine, c'est parce qu'il est un extraordinaire témoignage de l'unité fondamentale de  l'humanité par-delà la diversité de ses manifestations. Il atteste la rencontre féconde des cultures, leurs emprunts  réciproques, leur nécessaire interaction. C'est parce qu'ils incarnaient l'unité du peuple afghan, dans la continuité de ses  origines et la diversité de ses appartenances, que les bouddhas de Bamyan ont été détruits. Ce faisant, c'est la mémoire  collective de l'humanité qui s'est trouvée amputée. Ce vers du grand poète de l'Islam, Sa'dî de Shîrâz, que je citais dans  cette même salle il y a deux ans, résonne aujourd'hui cruellement à mes oreilles : "Tous les êtres humains ne forment  qu'un être ; qui touche à l'un de ses membres me touche - et s'il le blesse, il me blesse".
8.25 En ces jours sombres de notre histoire commune, dominés par la peur, le feu et le sang, il serait bon que la  communauté internationale entreprenne une action d'envergure, qui témoigne de la conscience de son unité et de sa  volonté de se réunir autour d'une grande oeuvre de coopération, de concorde et de paix. Je suis convaincu que l'heure est  venue de lancer une action de portée internationale en faveur de la sauvegarde du patrimoine de la vieille ville de  Jérusalem. En raison de son caractère unique et des valeurs universelles qui s'y attachent, cette ville d'art, de spiritualité  et d'histoire ne concerne pas seulement ceux qui, de par le monde, restent préoccupés par la nature de son statut et les  modalités de son devenir. Elle concerne l'humanité dans son ensemble. Je lance donc un appel pour que soit engagée,  sous les auspices de l'UNESCO, et dans l'esprit de la Convention de 1972 pour la protection du patrimoine mondial,  culturel et naturel, l'élaboration d'un plan global de sauvegarde de ce patrimoine exceptionnel qui demeure, hélas,  encore inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine en péril. Je me propose donc, si cette initiative recueillait un large soutien, de  rechercher des moyens pour financer cette opération, que j'entends bien mener sur des bases strictement  professionnelles et techniques, et en dehors de toute considération politique. J'en appelle à la communauté
46  internationale pour ce que je considère un devoir de dignité, pour qu'en cette période de trouble et de déraison, nous  manifestions - par un acte hautement symbolique - notre foi dans le devenir d'une humanité réconciliée avec elle-même.  (The Director-General continues in English)
8.26 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, respect for diversity, mutual understanding and tolerance  find their most vivid expression in regard to cultural issues. But the enhancement of international peace, human welfare  and human security is also a vital concern pervading all fields of UNESCO’s competence.
8.27 It is obvious, especially within the overall context of accelerating globalization, that individuals and  communities without a satisfactory level of basic education risk becoming marginalized not only within their own  society but from global society too.
8.28 The meeting of the World Education Forum in Dakar, Senegal, in April 2000 proved to be a turning-point not  only for the Education for All (EFA) movement but also for UNESCO. The Dakar conference was an occasion where  Member States and the international community renewed their collective commitment to achieving basic education of  sound quality for all. The Dakar Framework for Action adopted by the Forum specified quantitative and qualitative  goals to be achieved by 2015. Importantly, a clear link was made between the improvement of basic education and  poverty eradication. The education/poverty nexus, in fact, is the point where ignorance, discrimination and exclusion  interact with destitution and want, to produce a systematic denial of rights and opportunities.
8.29 The Dakar conference brought a most welcome recognition of the centrality of UNESCO to the EFA struggle.  UNESCO’s role extends not only to coordinating and facilitating the overall EFA process, especially through the  promotion of effective forms of partnership, but also to furnishing the drive behind EFA at the international and  regional levels. At the national level, of course, the national authorities and their partners from civil society and the  private sector must provide the main impetus needed by EFA.
8.30 It is my feeling that, in the light of recent events, the qualitative goals and targets agreed in Dakar need to be  strengthened. In particular, more attention must be given to improving the quality of basic education through the  cultivation of values, attitudes and behaviour conducive to peace, tolerance, mutual understanding and respect for  others. The International Conference on Education organized by IBE in Geneva in early September successfully placed  the whole question of “learning to live together” more squarely on the EFA agenda. This emphasis will certainly figure  within the deliberations of the forthcoming meeting of the high-level group along with the review of the first post-Dakar  monitoring report, the mobilization of international financial support for EFA, and the further consolidation of the  political will and commitment necessary to achieve EFA in the years ahead.
8.31 Informing the EFA endeavour will be the technical capacity and output of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics  (UIS), which has already transferred to Montreal, Canada, in readiness for its official opening in late November. The  role of the EFA observatory within UIS will be crucial for the generation and dissemination of key educational data in  coming years. The provision and analysis of sound, accurate statistics will be especially important for informing  national and international policy-making processes.
8.32 Ensuring that educational policies are knowledge-based is vital, of course, but it is equally important that  UNESCO’s policy advice and guidance are also values-based, especially regarding the shared values enshrined in  international conventions and other normative instruments. Again, knowledge is not enough by itself. In order to live  together in our diversity, we must cultivate appropriate attitudes and values through all our policies and programmes.
8.33 The importance of combining knowledge and values could not be clearer when one considers the HIV/AIDS  pandemic. That is why I have insisted on the educational dimension of the HIV/AIDS crisis being placed at the top of  UNESCO’s agenda, especially in terms of preventive education but also in regard to the recovery and sound functioning  of education systems crippled by the loss of key educational personnel. The HIV/AIDS crisis is particularly serious in  sub-Saharan Africa, where UNESCO’s efforts are to be concentrated.
8.34 The question of human security arises also in regard to scientific discoveries and technological advances, as is  clearly illustrated by developments in the life sciences and biotechnology in recent years. The domain of bioethics is  expanding in response to emerging risks and new dilemmas, especially in the area of genetics. It is now imperative that  Member States involve themselves in these issues not only in terms of reflection but also through the preparation of  national and international law in which the fundamental principles of bioethics should be enshrined.
8.35 There is both urgency and high importance associated with these matters. I am therefore pleased that there will  be a Round Table of Ministers of Science during the General Conference, which will be the first occasion when the
47  world’s ministers of science will meet to address the many pressing issues of bioethics and discuss the all-important  prospect of a universal standard embodying the international community’s common position in this regard. This Round  Table will draw upon the most valuable work undertaken by the International Bioethics Committee and the  Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee, which have helped to bring UNESCO widespread recognition as the key  agency for bioethics within the United Nations system.
8.36 It is vital that close international cooperation and coordination are maintained in relation to these burning  issues. In this perspective, I have taken the initiative to propose the creation of an inter-agency committee on bioethics;  indeed, the first consultative meeting took place on 17 September 2001. I recently wrote to the Secretary-General of the  United Nations to express UNESCO’s readiness to undertake the preparatory scientific work concerning the elaboration  of a convention forbidding human cloning, as proposed by France and Germany at the current session of the General  Assembly.
8.37 Thus, in these several ways, UNESCO is seeking to ensure that humankind’s capacity to generate knowledge  does not outstrip its capacity to exercise sound ethical judgement. Bringing together its expertise and experience in the  natural, social and human sciences, UNESCO is well placed to address the key issues arising from the genetic  revolution. These include the elaboration of an international instrument on genetic data which will address issues of  confidentiality and discrimination based on genetic considerations. In ways that parallel its concerns over cultural  diversity, UNESCO’s work in the domain of bioethics is aimed at preserving the human heritage of genetic diversity,  which is the very foundation of the security of humankind as a species.
8.38 The question of diversity also arises in relation to the ecosystems of the natural world. It is inconceivable to  address the task of humanizing the globalization process without taking environmental security, interdependence and  biodiversity seriously into account. In this regard, freshwater resources are a central concern for the period ahead.
8.39 Science and technology must be harnessed in order to address the looming crisis of freshwater resources. But  not in isolation. In recognition of its comparative advantage and interdisciplinary focus, UNESCO has been entrusted  with the responsibility for hosting the new United Nations Global Programme on Water Resources Assessment, in  relation to which 23 United Nations agencies have been mobilized. Through effective inter-agency cooperation and  coordination, this Global Programme is actively working to assess and monitor the evolution of freshwater resources. It  is also developing instruments that will facilitate the peaceful resolution of freshwater-related conflicts. UNESCO is  well equipped to play a leading role in this area, drawing upon its experience and capacity as a trusted interface between  policy-makers and the scientific community.
8.40 As with the field of education, UNESCO’s efforts in regard to communication and information must be  increasingly directed towards encouraging people to live together in peace and dignity. For years, the Organization has  been seeking to strike a balance between the principles of the free flow of information and the fostering of creativity  through the protection of the rights of creative artists and authors. The debate has taken on new significance as we come  to terms with the new information age, and this is why our discussions here – not only on the equitable use of  cyberspace but also on all matters related to the building of knowledge societies that respect cultural diversity – are a  further demonstration of the Organization’s relevance.
8.41 With regard to the new information and communication technologies, we are adopting a two-pronged strategy.  First, we must widen and facilitate free access to information for all and, second, we must promote and protect cultural  diversity. UNESCO must do its utmost to promote access to the public domain and ensure that cultural diversity has a  secure place within the circuits of the new channels of communication. The UNESCO portal is designed to achieve  these purposes. In addition, UNESCO must fashion a normative instrument appropriate to the new conditions of  information exchange. In regard to access to cyberspace and the promotion of multilingualism, the text prepared by a  group of experts has raised difficulties for some Member States. It has been revisited and a revised version has been  circulated that can form the basis for a broader consensus.
8.42 All these issues are of capital importance as we prepare for the World Summit on the Information Society that  will be convened under the auspices of the United Nations and held in 2003. UNESCO’s message must be heard:  learning to live together in the global village involves the right to speak, the duty to heed and the desire to understand.
8.43 Mr President, when I was given the honour of becoming UNESCO’s Director-General two years ago, Member  States set me two main goals: to enhance the Organization’s relevance, and to strengthen its effectiveness.
8.44 I have worked very hard on both fronts. I have just outlined what has been done in terms of enhancing  relevance in our programmes. Let me now discuss the strengthening of UNESCO’s effectiveness through the reform of  its management and administration.
8.45 We have made great strides: the staff, myself and the Executive Board have worked together in a spirit of  cooperation and collective endeavour from which we can rightly draw great satisfaction. Let me take this opportunity to  pay tribute to the work of the Executive Board and its Chairperson, in the course of its last four sessions, in addressing  so many of the serious administrative and management difficulties that needed to be overcome in a progressive and  forward-looking spirit of trust and teamwork.
8.46 We have struggled with many conflicting requirements, foremost among which has been balancing financial  stringency with rapid modernization. And yet we have succeeded in the space of two years in bringing into being a  series of reforms whose depth and scale are, I believe, unparalleled within the United Nations. This was largely due to  the very firm political support I have received, and continue to receive, from you, the Member States.
8.47 But I do feel bound to note that in many other parts of the United Nations, similar reform efforts have been  blessed with a degree of additional funding that recognizes that reform bears an added cost. But we have done it despite  not having additional funding. I believe, therefore, that I can legitimately expect that one day soon there will be a  reform dividend for us. UNESCO deserves it.
8.48 The Secretariat is different from that which you left two years ago. It has been radically restructured both at  Headquarters and in the field. Our aims have been to make it simpler and more rational, to eliminate confusion and  duplication, to re-establish clear lines of authority, to ensure that the structure serves programme needs (and not the  other way round) and to introduce a modern new system of internal oversight as the first step in our move towards  better accountability at all levels.
8.49 I shall not enter into the details of the reform. But please recall that, on my appointment, there were almost
200 posts in total at the level of Director and above at Headquarters and in the field. Now there are just 50 or so  Directors at Headquarters and some 45 in the field. Moreover, there are now just 10 Assistant Directors-General  (ADGs) instead of 21. This reduction from nearly 200 to slightly over 100 in the space of two years is, by any measure,  a considerable achievement, as I am sure you will agree.
8.50 Another sensitive area which I had to handle personally was the matter of the reform of our decentralized field  network. The result is again positive and I believe we can, as a community, collectively congratulate ourselves on this  achievement. The field network has been simplified and a more coherent system has been created. The rationalization  entails, overall, a reduction in the number of field units by about one third from the previous total of over 70. Indeed, by  the end of 2001, 18 will have closed, 14 of which have already done so. Another three will close next year.
8.51 The new cluster offices are already being strengthened; all of them will in due course have specialist staff  drawn from each of the sectors so that a comprehensive service can be provided to Member States within the cluster  office area. The new policy of staff rotation will enhance this process. Meanwhile, national offices in the E-9 countries  have been retained, as have others serving countries in exceptional circumstances, subject of course to review.
8.52 I must stress that I could not have put into practice the principles agreed by the General Conference two years  ago if it had not been for the support, commitment and cooperation of you, the Member States. I am particularly  appreciative of the understanding shown by those countries which have accepted the disappointment of an office  closure as a gesture for the common good. To those countries, allow me once again to express a very sincere “thank  you” and to pledge my every effort to ensure that the Organization’s action in your countries will not suffer.
8.53 Introducing modern management tools has been another objective of the management reform, aimed at making  UNESCO more responsive to the needs of its Member States. This has meant taking full advantage of modern  computerization facilities. The first two projects – relating to programme and budget and to finance and administration –  are on schedule, and it remains for us to introduce the third component – for human resources management – which we  could not take forward more quickly for want of financial resources.
8.54 The same shortage of funding has for too long affected the maintenance and renovation of buildings here at  Headquarters. Some essential repairs have recently been undertaken but the real work will begin in the next biennium  with the implementation in earnest of the first phase of the Belmont Plan. However, we must anticipate the  requirements of Phase 2 and for this, the support and cooperation of Member States will be needed. Over and above our  responsibility to maintain the essential fabric of the buildings, this work is vital for creating an environment in which  our staff can work with enhanced efficiency and motivation.
8.55 Which brings me to the most important part of this Secretariat: the staff. As you know, from the very beginning  I decided to drive forward my reform programme from within, recognizing the formidable resources of energy, idealism  and conviction inside UNESCO. These last two years have confirmed me in that initial assessment.
8.56 In return, the staff deserve the very best. Much has already been achieved in terms of reforming our staff  policies so that the working environment enjoys an atmosphere of responsibility, transparency, fairness and harmony.  We still have a long way to go. Recruitment, better geographical distribution, training, rejuvenation, career  development, rotation and mobility, assessment and reporting, and conflict resolution are all subjects currently under in- depth review. A number of the proposals for improvement will be implemented during the next biennium. With regard  to one of these aspects – geographical distribution – I wish to reiterate my determination to improve the situation.  Progress is already to be observed.
8.57 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as I close, I would like you to observe the vivid and  colourful display of national flags behind me, standing out against that backdrop. And now look around you at the show  of rich diversity within our assembly. This hall and the lobbies outside are never more engaging than at this very  moment, alive as they are with languages and beliefs, creeds and customs, differences and similarities. Yet above all,  we are here. Together.
8.58 At this time of anxiety, let us draw strength from that togetherness, and turn all our energies to taking forward  the debates on some of the most crucial issues of our times. Then we shall have achieved what we have set out to do: to  show to the world how UNESCO serves as a haven for measured reflection and dialogue, focused on the values we  share.
8.59 The leitmotif of my presentation today – learning to live together in a world of cultural diversity – provides an  animating vision and a rich agenda for us all. Through our circuits of international cooperation and through the themes  enlivening our programmes and actions, the promotion of learning to live together is revealed to be UNESCO’s  principal contribution to the wider process of humanizing globalization. The way forward is clear. Thank you very  much.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Allow me to congratulate you, and thank you, for your extremely  interesting, comprehensive and pertinent introduction to the general policy debate, which we are going to start soon. In  the last part of your introduction you reminded us to look at this diversity represented here, and also to look ahead to the  serious task we have of living together, understanding each other and making a better house, a common house of this  world that belongs to all of us. I wish you the best success. Your introduction indicated the substantial work you have  accomplished, and I am certain that your words will inspire our debate. Thank you very much for all of your efforts and  for the comments you have made.
(10) M. Mohamed GHOUALMI (Algérie) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, en tant que  Président du Groupe arabe, j'ai écouté avec le plus vif intérêt l'appel vibrant que le Directeur général a lancé en faveur de  Jérusalem dans l'excellent discours qu'il vient de prononcer. J'ai pris note avec satisfaction de l'initiative tendant à mettre en  oeuvre un plan global, comportant des mesures concrètes, pour sauvegarder le patrimoine culturel de cette ville et le  protéger contre les menaces et les dangers auxquels il n'a cessé d'être exposé. Au nom du Groupe arabe, je tiens à vous dire,  Monsieur le Directeur général, que nous appuyons à fond votre initiative. Le Groupe arabe est convaincu qu'avec la volonté  du Directeur général et le plein soutien de la communauté internationale, la sauvegarde du patrimoine de Jérusalem sera à  coup sûr une réalité tangible et les obstacles qui s'y sont opposés seront définitivement surmontés. La mobilisation de  ressources financières en faveur de l'exécution de ce projet est aussi une idée très importante. Au nom du Groupe arabe, je
50  vous réitère nos plus vifs remerciements et réaffirme notre soutien total à cette initiative qui revêt un caractère humanitaire,  culturel et aussi éthique. Merci.
11. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. Now I see that the distinguished Ambassador of Canada, who is chairing Group I,  would like to take the floor. The floor is yours, Sir.
12. M. Louis HAMEL (Canada) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. En ma qualité de vice-président de la Conférence générale membre du Groupe  électoral I, et après consultation de mes collègues vice-présidents membres de ce même groupe, je souhaite exprimer  notre soutien à l’idée du Directeur général d’élaborer un plan global pour la sauvegarde de la vieille ville de Jérusalem.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I would now like to invite the distinguished delegate of Zimbabwe to take the floor.
14. Mr BIMHA (Zimbabwe):   Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to add to the voice of the Africa Group,which has lent its support to the  Director-General’s initiative, involving the drawing-up of an overall plan for the safeguarding and enhancement of the  Old City of Jerusalem. The importance of Jerusalem to the three communities that are associated with it, and to  humanity at large, justifies such an initiative. It is even more important in the current difficult times when we need to  promote dialogue between cultures and civilizations. It is in this spirit, Mr President, that the Africa Group fully  endorses the Director-General’s appeal to safeguard and preserve the Old City of Jerusalem. I thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Excellency. I now call upon the Chairperson of the Asia-Pacific Group, Her Excellency the  Ambassador of India, who has asked for the floor. Madam, please.
16. Ms SABHARWAL (India):   Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Asia-Pacific Group, I am pleased to support the initiative  launched by the Director-General concerning Jerusalem, a world heritage site in danger, which is in line with the  mandate of UNESCO. We believe that this will be an important contribution by UNESCO to the protection of the  cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem. Thank you.
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, Madam. I now invite the distinguished delegate of Costa Rica, who is chairing the Latin America  and Caribbean Group, to take the floor.
(18.1) M. HERRERA RODRÍGUEZ (Costa Rica) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, je tiens à féliciter M. Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général,  pour sa détermination à donner un nouvel élan au dialogue interculturel et à la sauvegarde de ce qu'il est convenu d'appeler  les biens publics communs et la culture immatérielle. L'UNESCO peut et doit assumer un rôle actif dans la promotion de ce  dialogue, surtout en ce début de siècle inquiétant où l'humanité risque, si des mesures ne sont pas prises, de succomber à un  conflit absurde de cultures. Le Président Chirac a évoqué ce risque dans son discours d'hier : l'UNESCO est un lieu idéal  pour repenser l'histoire, en partant du principe selon lequel aucune culture n'est un point de vue privilégié pour juger les  autres. L'humanité n'a jamais tiré avantage du conflit des civilisations, mais elle s'est enrichie des rencontres et des  chevauchements culturels, pour citer le philosophe hindou Radam Al.
(18.2) En ma qualité de Président du Groupe de l'Amérique latine et des Caraïbes, je souhaite exprimer la sympathie  générale de mon Groupe envers les efforts que déploie le Directeur général pour protéger la vieille ville de Jérusalem. Je  dois pour ma part ajouter qu'en dehors de tout débat extraculturel, protéger les espaces culturels de l'humanité est une tâche  obligée de l'UNESCO, la protection des biens publics communs et l'encouragement au dialogue contribuent à la culture de  la paix et à la réconciliation. Je vous remercie.
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you, distinguished delegate of Costa Rica. I now give the floor to the delegate of Israel.
20.1 M. ELDAN (Israël) :   Monsieur le Président, avec votre permission, je voudrais faire deux remarques : la première s’adresse à mon  collègue et ami, le Président du Groupe électoral I, qui a dit tout à l'heure que tous les membres du groupe sont d'accord  avec l'initiative du Directeur général. Je fais partie de ce groupe et je n'ai dit à aucune occasion qu'Israël soutenait cette  initiative. Voilà pour la première remarque.
20.2 Plus généralement je dirai que l'Etat d'Israël et la Mairie de Jérusalem ont beaucoup fait depuis des années pour  la préservation de Jérusalem et que ceux qui voudraient constater les résultats de ces efforts sont invités à venir le faire.
20.3 J'ai déjà indiqué au Directeur général qu’Israël étudierait en temps opportun le contenu de cette initiative. Mais  Israël est engagé ces jours-ci et depuis un an dans un combat contre le terrorisme. La tension à Jérusalem est grande et  ce n'est pas le moment de compliquer la situation avec des initiatives derrière lesquelles se dessinent des intentions  politiques émanant de certains groupes et de certains pays.
20.4 Donc j’aimerais tout d'abord que soit rectifié ce qu'a dit mon collègue du Groupe I et je proposerais ensuite de  laisser à Israël le temps d'étudier l'initiative du Directeur général pour pouvoir y répondre comme il convient. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
21. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Canada.
22. M. HAMEL (Canada) :   J’aimerais tout simplement repréciser ce que j’ai dit tout à l’heure, à l’intention de mon ami et collègue  d’Israël. En réalité, je ne parlais pas en tant que président du Groupe électoral I, mais bien en ma qualité de Vice- Président de la Conférence générale et au nom des autres vice-présidents de la Conférence générale membres du Groupe  électoral I. La nuance est là. En fait je n’ai consulté que cinq pays, puisque de façon générale mon groupe électoral ne  prend de décisions que sur les questions électorales. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
23. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you. I note that you mentioned in your intervention that you were speaking in your capacity as Vice- President of the General Conference. We take note of the suggestion and comments made here.  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL  ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ОБЩЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ  א א   总政策辩论
24. The PRESIDENT:   Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, before inviting the first speaker on the list to take the floor this  morning, I should like to remind you that, as we agreed when discussing the organization of our work, each speaker has  eight minutes to address the plenary. It is in the interest of all of us to keep within this time-frame in order to have a  balanced debate and avoid extended sessions. I thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation in this  regard. I would like to remind you of the list of speakers for this morning, and I therefore give the floor to the Secretary  of the General Conference.
25. Le SECRETAIRE :   Monsieur le Président, sont inscrits au débat de politique générale pour la séance de ce matin les chefs de  délégation des pays suivants : Arabie saoudite, Ouganda, Nigeria et Cuba. Le débat se poursuivra bien entendu cet  après-midi.
26. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I now invite His Excellency Dr Mohamed Ahmed al Rasheed, distinguished Minister of  Education of Saudi Arabia to take the floor.  א ٢٧,١ א(א א  ):א א  א ،.א א א א ، א א א ، א א א א ، א ، א א א א ، א א:א ، א א א  .א
(27.1) M. AL RASHEED (Royaume d'Arabie saoudite) (traduit de l'arabe) :   Au nom de Dieu le Clément, le Miséricordieux, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs et membres  de délégation, je voudrais, tout d'abord, Monsieur le Président, vous féliciter du fond du coeur de votre élection à ce poste,  que vous ont value vos compétences, et dont assurément nous nous réjouissons tous.
(27.2) La conviction que j'ai de l'importance de cette organisation mondiale et de ses nobles objectifs me pousse à relire,  de temps à autre, l'Acte constitutif afin de mieux en pénétrer le sens. Comme je le relisais récemment, cette phrase du  Préambule a retenu mon attention : "Les gouvernements des Etats parties à la présente Convention, au nom de leurs peuples,  déclarent : Que, les guerres prenant naissance dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est dans l'esprit des hommes que doivent être  élevées les défenses de la paix ;". De l'intelligence profonde de ce fait découle le lien établi entre les causes des guerres,  lesquelles relèvent en premier lieu d'une décision politique, et l'éducation qui vise à réformer les esprits et à policer les  moeurs afin que, sous le règne de la paix et de la science, ils puissent voguer vers les horizons de l'humanisme.
(27.3) Notre Organisation, Monsieur le Président, a pour fondements l'éducation, la science et la culture, et se tient à  l'écart de la politique, dans ce qu'elle a de bien et de mal, de doux et d'amer. Cependant, quelle doit être la position d'une  organisation mondiale qui poursuit pareils objectifs lorsqu'elle voit, lorsque le monde entier voit des peuples opprimés,  leurs droits bafoués, des peuples privés de leurs biens et de leur volonté, chassés de leur terre et de leurs maisons, leurs  habitations détruites, les personnes tuées, les femmes condamnées à être veuves et les enfants orphelins, par les armes les  plus sophistiquées que puisse inventer la science moderne.
(27.4) Le combat entre le vrai et le faux, le bien et le mal est aussi vieux que l'être humain ; les moyens dont il use  évoluent en même temps que lui, en même temps que la science et la force dont il dispose. Le personnage malfaisant qui, il  y a des milliers d'années, armé d'une pierre, tuait un individu, peut désormais, avec une bombe, exterminer un peuple. Nous  vivons désormais, Mesdames et Messieurs, et je le dis avec tristesse et amertume, une époque où prospère ce que l'on peut  appeler l'art et la science du mensonge et de la duperie, au niveau des individus, des groupes et des institutions et même des  nations et des peuples. Les gens confondent désormais le vrai et le faux du fait de la faiblesse des tenants du premier et de  la force des tenants du second.
(27.5) Mesdames et Messieurs, je lance un appel aux Etats membres de l'UNESCO pour qu'ils mettent effectivement en  oeuvre la phrase du Préambule de l'Acte constitutif que j'ai citée au début de mon intervention. Je vous rappelle à cette  occasion la tragédie que vit le peuple palestinien, qui a commencé par l'expulsion des Palestiniens de leurs maisons et leur  dispersion à la fin des années 40 du siècle passé, et qui se poursuit aujourd'hui par l'assassinat, l'emprisonnement, le blocus.  Ils ne peuvent goûter aux bienfaits de la sécurité et de la stabilité, on leur dénie le droit à "l'éducation, la science et la  culture", voire à l'alimentation, à l'habillement et aux soins dans bien des cas. Je m'interroge : comment notre Organisation  peut-elle faire pour mettre fin à l'injustice que subissent les innocents, enfants, femmes, vieillards et jeunes de Palestine ?
54  Comment peut-elle faire pour donner un crayon, un cahier, un livre au jeune écolier qui en est dépourvu ? Comment peut- elle l'aider, lui et ceux qui ont à charge de l'instruire, à apprendre et à enseigner alors qu'ils vivent dans la peur, la terreur,  qui les guette à toute heure de la nuit et du jour ? Que doit faire l'Organisation pour préserver l'illustre patrimoine de cette  terre sainte, vers laquelle se tournent les regards des trois religions révélées ? Je me réjouis de l'initiative du Directeur  général, car ce patrimoine appartient à l'humanité tout entière et nul ne peut le monopoliser ou le bafouer.
(27.6) Je passe sur certaines questions que j'évoque dans mon discours écrit, concernant la situation de l'Organisation et  la réforme engagée. Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi d'insister, nous sommes, en Arabie saoudite, partisans d'une paix  fondée sur la justice, d'un dialogue entre les peuples fondé sur l'égalité. Le respect que nous portons aux grands idéaux - la  droiture, l'intégrité, la justice, l'équité, l'Etat de droit, la lutte contre la fausseté - procède de notre religion et de notre  respect pour tous les émissaires de Dieu, qui ont apporté ces enseignements d'une même source, Dieu, Seigneur du Ciel et  de la Terre. Notre espoir est de voir un jour l'Humanité goûter à la paix, la sécurité, la justice et l'égalité, et jouir des biens  immenses qui abondent sur la planète sur laquelle elle vit, et qui seraient plus que suffisants s'ils étaient mieux exploités, et  répartis de façon plus juste et plus équitable. Puisse notre chère Organisation contribuer à jouer un aussi noble rôle au  service de l'idéal humaniste.
(27.7) Monsieur le Président, les événements douloureux qu'ont vécus les Etats-Unis d'Amérique le 11 septembre  dernier ont secoué le monde, fait des milliers de victimes innocentes et dévoilé au globe les terribles menaces qui pèsent sur  le citoyen paisible jusque dans sa maison. Ces événements, nous les réprouvons avec force au nom de notre religion, l'islam,  tout comme nous rejetons le terrorisme sous toutes ses formes. Il s'agit là d'une maladie dangereuse qu'il nous faut traiter  comme n'importe quelle autre maladie : il ne suffit pas de trouver le remède qui en guérit, il faut aussi rechercher l'agent  pathogène qui en est la cause et l'éradiquer. Mieux vaut, dit-on, prévenir que guérir. Avec la même force que nous mettons  à dénoncer et condamner ces événements, nous dénonçons et condamnons toute agression semblable à l'encontre  d'individus, de communautés ou de peuples qui n'ont pas les moyens de dénoncer l'injustice qu'ils subissent et de faire  entendre leurs griefs au monde.
(27.8) Avant de conclure, je voudrais féliciter S. E. le Président de la République française, Monsieur Chirac, pour le  discours qu'il a prononcé hier. Oui, la première exigence est de lier le dialogue à la justice. Et nous ajoutons que le dialogue  doit nécessairement être franc et loyal. Et nous souscrivons certainement à l'idée, exprimée par le Président Chirac, de lier  le dialogue à la solidarité ! La France, telle que nous la voyons, est le pays de la solidarité. La France, ce grand pays qui  abrite la plus forte proportion de musulmans en Occident, est le meilleur exemple de réussite des efforts faits pour vivre  ensemble, qui montre que la solidarité de l'Occident et de l'islam débouche sur l'optimisme, l'amitié et la paix.
(27.9) Enfin, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais vous proposer, à vous ainsi qu'à cette auguste assemblée, la constitution  d'un comité chargé de définir avec précision le sens du mot terrorisme. Notre Organisation serait ainsi la première à prendre  l'initiative de définir le terrorisme avec précision. Nous pourrions ensuite faire adopter cette définition par l'Organisation  des Nations Unies. Je vous remercie de votre attention. Que la paix, la miséricorde et la bénédiction de Dieu soient sur vous.   :א ٢٨,١ א  ، א ،  .א
(28.1) Le PRESIDENT (traduit de l'arabe) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre, de ces précieuses paroles.  (The President continues in English)
28.2 You have reminded us of the spirit of the Constitution of UNESCO. I now give the floor to His Excellency the  Honourable Dr Khiddu-Makubuya, the distinguished Minister of Education and Sports of Uganda.
29.1 Mr KHIDDU-MAKUBUYA (Uganda):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  honourable heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to take this  opportunity to congratulate you, Mr President, and members of the General Committee of our Conference on your  election. I trust that, under your leadership, a good deal will be achieved during this General Conference. The Uganda  delegation would like to pay tribute to the Executive Board, the Director-General and the Secretariat for guiding the  work of our Organization during the last two years. We note the tremendous improvement in the General Conference  documents, especially the C/4 and C/5 documents. The presentation is clear and it is now simple for us to see what is to  be done, how it is to be done and the expected outcomes. Given this formulation it will be easy to measure success or  failure at the end of the biennium.
29.2 The past six years have been a period of reform and consolidation in UNESCO and other United Nations  agencies. We fully support the decentralization of UNESCO’s activities while encouraging UNESCO to build the  capacity of local experts and National Commissions. With increased local capacity and with strengthened National  Commissions UNESCO will have better collaborators who will help the Organization to enhance its effectiveness and  visibility. Decentralization should ensure that the strategy of clustering Member States into small administrative units
55  does not jeopardize our regional integration efforts in Africa. Within this context Uganda proposes that the two  UNESCO Regional Offices in Dakar and Nairobi be strengthened with both human and financial resources.
29.3 We commend the strategy of highlighting the specific needs of Africa, the needs of least developed countries  and the needs of women and youth. We suggest, however, that this response should be broken down into more specific  projects that can make a serious contribution to improving the quality of life of the vulnerable groups. Accordingly,  Uganda invites UNESCO to take a keen interest in and preferably support two African regional activities being  spearheaded by Uganda, namely, first, the programme on Empowerment of Women through Education of the Girl Child  endorsed by the African Conference held in Kampala in 1998 whereby participating countries committed themselves to  concrete timetables of action; and secondly, the Girls Education Movement in Africa (GEM) which was launched in  Kampala in August 2001. African countries committed themselves to mainstream girls’ involvement in all activities to  improve the lives of girls through education. The President of Uganda agreed to lead a delegation of young people from  Africa to present the GEM agenda to the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Children.
29.4 In the same context, the emphasis given to the issue of´the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which is affecting Africa  more than any other continent, is commended. We recommend the cultural approach to this problem. In Uganda we  have been implementing a project on the cultural approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and the results are  encouraging. We look forward to continued collaboration with UNESCO on successful practices.
29.5 The cross-cutting themes as set out in the draft Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft Programme and Budget  are welcome. Extreme poverty is a shame to humanity and all people of good will should join UNESCO in fighting  poverty. In this regard Uganda acknowledges with gratitude the multilateral and bilateral support given to my  Government to help in the alleviation of poverty. We are grateful for the debt relief initiatives under the Heavily  Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, from which we have greatly benefited. We encourage the developed  countries and donor agencies to grant further debt relief. We further urge them to live up to their international  commitment to grant developing countries up to 1 per cent of their GDP for development assistance. Uganda therefore  supports the unifying theme of contributing to peace and human development in an era of globalization through  education, the sciences, culture and communication, which addresses the reason why UNESCO was founded after the  end of the Second World War.
29.6 Uganda believes in peaceful coexistence and the promotion of and respect for human life and dignity. In this  regard, Uganda joins all peace-lovers of the world to vehemently condemn the recent terrorist acts and offer its regret at  the loss of thousands of lives in the United States of America and other parts of the world due to terrorism. Uganda calls  on UNESCO, within its competence, to lead the global community in resolving conflicts and their causes peacefully, on  the basis of mutual respect for our diverse cultures, religions and civilizations.
29.7 The commitment of UNESCO to humanizing globalization must be supported. We recognize that globalization  is a phenomenon that we cannot run away from. While we acknowledge the ample opportunities globalization has  brought about, we should be aware of challenges embedded in some of the values it conveys. As we try to achieve  universalism, we should at the same time design mechanisms for maintaining the identity of our specific cultural norms  and values.
29.8 Mr President, regarding the key strategic objectives, Uganda welcomes UNESCO’s focus on the need to  reinforce the right to education, strengthening international scientific and intellectual cooperation, and protecting the  cultural heritage, including promoting media development and broadening public domain access to information and  knowledge.
29.9 My Government is committed to the implementation of the goals of the Dakar Framework for Action. Uganda  has moved in this positive direction through the implementation of a Universal Primary Education Programme.  Focusing specifically on the Dakar Framework for Action, we need support from UNESCO and development partners  to address the following issues: the learning needs of the poor and the excluded, the reduction of adult illiteracy, the  expansion of early childhood care and education, improving the quality of teaching and learning, and many others. In  implementing education programmes, due consideration should be given to the four pillars of education stressed in the  Delors Commission Report Learning: The Treasure Within, namely, learning to know, learning to do, learning to be and  learning to live together. In regard to “learning to live together”, UNESCO should support the implementation in  Member States of the action plan of the International Conference on Education on “Learning to live together in a global  context” which has just ended.
29.10 We recognize the role of culture and its contribution to the development process. We welcome the programme  on Proclamation of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage in which Uganda participated. The competition  stimulates research into intangible culture in all its forms and can be used to avoid a cultural identity crisis, especially  among youth who are the most vulnerable group. We need support to introduce heritage courses at university level.
29.11 Mr President, there can never be education for all without information for all. The linkage between education,  information and communication cannot be overemphasized. However, the current mismatch between the pace at which  information and communication technologies (ICTs) are developing and the ability to access and use these  technologies, especially in Africa, needs to be addressed. The digital divide is widening and Africa will remain a sad  spectator in the information society.
29.12 Finally, Mr President, Excellencies and distinguished delegates, as we enter the information society there are  ethical issues which we must face. Our Organization is best placed to play a leading role in this area.
29.13 In conclusion, Mr President, Sir, I thank you for the opportunity to make the voice of Uganda heard at this 31st  session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
30. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now call upon His Excellency Professor Abraham Babalola  Borishade, the distinguished Minister of Education of Nigeria.
31.1 Mr BABALOLA BORISHADE (Nigeria):    Mr President, honourable Ministers, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to add my voice to the many that have congratulated you,  Mr President, on your deserved election as President of this, the 31st session of the General Conference. My delegation  is convinced that your able and distinguished experience will provide the necessary guidance to our deliberations and  make a resounding success of the first session of the General Conference of UNESCO to be held in the twenty-first  century. The delegation of Nigeria is delighted to offer to you our unalloyed cooperation.
31.2 We also extend our warmest congratulations to Ms Jaroslava Moserová, the previous President, for her  dedication and the outstanding contribution she made to the work of this Organization during her tenure. Equally, we  would like to thank most sincerely the entire membership of the Executive Board for its commitment and assiduity in  overseeing the work of the Organization during the past two years. Mr. President, I also salute Ambassador Mendieta de  Badaroux, Chairperson of the Board, for her leadership. To our host country, France, we are most grateful for the  warmth of the welcome we have received since our arrival in the charming city of Paris. Finally, Mr Director-General,  we salute your reform and renewal efforts as you seek to create a better UNESCO, and we commend your determined  intention to be an instrument of change.
31.3 Mr President, Nigeria supports UNESCO’s mission and its three fundamental principles of universality,  diversity and dignity. Similarly, we applaud its values of justice, solidarity, sharing and respect for human rights and  democratic principles. However, we also believe that UNESCO’s mandate to promote the objectives of international  peace and the common welfare of mankind also confers upon it the responsibility of being an unrepentant “pricker” of  the world’s conscience, a peace mediator, a watchdog and advocate of human rights everywhere. Mr President, I wish  to call on Member States to denounce collectively and resolutely the destructive assault on world peace and the security  of humanity that took place on 11 September 2001 in Washington and New York and the more recent incidents  apparently involving biotechnology. This Organization and its parent body, the United Nations, should acknowledge  that, within the assignment of pursuing world peace, there is the inevitable challenge of promoting dialogue and justice.  By now we should know that peace within a global village will only be guaranteed if there is joy and harmony in each  household in that village. Any village that harbours people who are discontented, poor and have nothing else to lose but  their lives can hardly remain safe for all.
31.4 Mr President, we subscribe to the Director-General’s assessment of global issues and world trends in the new  millennium. We particularly welcome the two cross-cutting themes, concerning the eradication of poverty and the  construction of a knowledge society through the deployment of information and communication technology. This is a  happy coincidence. In our national plans and programmes, we have also recognized and identified these two areas as  challenges that must be met seriously and with commitment. It will, therefore, be gratifying to see in the Medium-Term  Strategy a clearer identification and articulation of the specific contributions that education must make towards the  eradication of poverty. Equally, we commend the focus on the prevention of HIV/AIDS. Nigeria has adopted, as a  corporate priority, the fight through education against the scourge of HIV/AIDS.
31.5 We welcome the progress being made in the decentralization process. We also count very much on the  inclusion of a well-articulated programme of capacity development and sustained evaluations as essential parts of the  process. We note the roles the National Commissions are expected to play in a decentralized UNESCO. We hope,  however, that these Commissions will be adequately empowered so as to be able to pursue effectively the delivery of  the corporate objectives of UNESCO.
31.6 Mr President, permit me to observe that a reduction in the budget of UNESCO at this time is in contradiction  with the demands of its renewed responsibilities and the ever-growing needs of Member States. We call on the leaders
57  of the world for an upward review of the budget of UNESCO as otherwise it will be trapped in the unpleasant  dichotomy of ends and means; the dilemma of much movement with little motion.
31.7 Mr President, Nigeria is particularly pleased that education has continued to be given the priority ranking it  deserves in UNESCO’s mission, attracting the highest increase in budgetary allocation. We are equally pleased with the  emphasis on Education for All (EFA) as follow-up to the 2000 Dakar World Education Forum plan of meeting the  requirements of the six areas of concern by 2015. We endorse the main line of action focusing on national and regional  education strategies, and EFA action plans. Indeed, Nigeria has established its own EFA Forum which has produced a  blueprint for a national action plan. Given the synergy between basic education and the special E-9 pilot programmes,  additional means to those currently envisaged will be required for education programmes.
31.8 We admit with remorse our shortcomings in the implementation of Participation Programme projects in the  area of culture. This is one of the scars of several years of military misrule. We are making amends. But, Mr President,  there is general agreement on the need for a more balanced and representative World Heritage List. We have every  confidence in the Director-General’s resolve to do everything to redress the existing unbalanced situation. In this  connection, Nigeria appreciates UNESCO’s support in including the Sukur Landscape in the World Heritage List and  also urges a reconsideration of her other sites, many of which are endangered.
31.9 Nigeria would like to congratulate the Director-General and all the Member States that have contributed to the  development of the new UNESCO Information for All Programme. This gratitude is extended to the Members of the  Council for the former programme as well as the relevant professional non-governmental and international  governmental organizations for their contribution. Nigeria is very happy and proud to have been able to contribute to  the exercise. We would once again plead for more funds for the International Programme for the Development of  Communication (IPDC) and for dynamic complementary action by these two programmes in the fields of  communication and information.
31.10 We note that access to communication and information is still hampered in Africa by the extreme lack of  infrastructure, digital tools, contents, capabilities and skills. Yet we affirm that Africa and the developing world should  be able to contribute meaningful content to public domain electronic media such as the Internet. This means that, in this  area, we need programmes and not advocacy, activities designed to narrow the digital divide between developed and  developing countries. UNESCO is therefore encouraged to use existing centres of excellence in Africa for the  substantial training and fellowships aspect of the regular budget. African expertise is available to provide advisory  services within the region.
31.11 Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I cannot end this short intervention without  thanking this assembly most sincerely for its resolution 56 adopted at its 30th session in October 1999, which endorsed  the Nigeria-UNESCO Special Plan of Action. Under this agreement UNESCO was mandated to assist in the process of  overhauling and revitalizing our educational system through support for education sector analysis, basic education,  technical and vocational education delivery and the provision of policy and strategic advice in the field of science and  technology. We are pleased with the progress made and the prospects for this cooperation. We are now in the process of  studying with the Secretariat the possibility of extending existing programmes to cover areas of great and  complementary need in our educational systems – I am referring particularly to the establishment of virtual libraries for  use by our educational institutions and the Distance Learning Programme for more cost-effective educational delivery.  We will need cooperation and support in this endeavour and we are anxious to share in the experience and know-how of  those who have trodden that same path.
31.12 Finally, Mr President, we reaffirm our commitment to the ideals of this Organization and our faith in  international cooperation for the creation of a better world through education, science, culture and communication.  Nigeria stands ready to continue to contribute to the UNESCO enterprise and to seek new ways of enhancing its  contributions and participation in building a fairer and more just world for this and succeeding generations.  Distinguished delegates, I thank you for your attention.
32. The PRESIDENT:   I thank the distinguished Minister. I now invite His Excellency Mr Fernando Vecino Alegret, distinguished  Minister of Higher Education of Cuba, to take the floor.
(33.1) M. VECINO ALEGRET (Cuba) (traduit de l'espagnol) :   Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Mesdames et Messieurs, cette 31e session de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO a lieu à un moment crucial, en raison  du rôle important que joue l'Organisation dans la promotion des valeurs universelles, de l'éthique, du dialogue entre les  cultures, de la compréhension mutuelle et de la paix. Depuis le 11 septembre dernier, lorsque se sont produits les actes  terroristes contre les villes de New York et de Washington, le monde traverse l'une des périodes les plus critiques et les  plus dangereuses de son histoire. Cuba réaffirme sa condamnation la plus énergique de ces actes criminels, et adresse à  nouveau ses plus profondes et sincères condoléances au peuple des Etats-Unis pour la douleur qu'il connaît aujourd'hui,  tout en réitérant son opposition à toutes les formes de terrorisme et à la guerre.
(33.2) Nous sommes convaincus que la guerre n'est ni une solution, ni une réponse rationnelle. La violence ne peut  qu'engendrer davantage de violence et expose à nouveau des vies innocentes à une fin tragique. Aucune puissance ou  groupe de puissances ne peut ni ne pourra remplacer l'Organisation des Nations Unies, et en particulier de son Assemblée  générale, dans la lutte mondiale contre le terrorisme. De nouveaux et graves conflits se succéderont inévitablement tant que  les causes réelles qui les engendrent n'auront pas été éliminées et que n'auront pas disparu l'analphabétisme, la faim,  l'insalubrité, l'injustice et la fracture économique, scientifique et technologique qui se creuse de plus en plus entre les pays  riches et les pays pauvres dans ce nouveau millénaire.
(33.3) Au moment où certains proclament à tort que notre époque se caractérise par un "choc des civilisations", il  incombe aux gouvernements et à leur système éducatif de travailler pour démentir scientifiquement l'existence de  civilisations supérieures à d'autres, et mettre l'éducation, la science et la technique au service du développement pour tous  et avec tous. De l'école maternelle à l'université, il faut faire en sorte que les nouvelles générations apprennent à se  connaître, à faire, à vivre ensemble et à être, comme l'a proposé l'UNESCO, à laquelle un rôle central incombe dans cette  tâche. Depuis des années, l'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie, dont personne ne doit être exclu, est inscrite de façon  prioritaire à l'ordre du jour de l'UNESCO. A Cuba, nous avons réactivé le Forum national de l'éducation pour tous, chargé  d'élaborer le plan d'action national visant les six objectifs stratégiques définis dans le Cadre d'action de Dakar et les
12 éléments du Cadre d'action régional de l'éducation pour tous dans les Amériques. Notre pays, qui a vaincu  l'analphabétisme il y a 40 ans, réaffirme sa volonté de contribuer, aux côtés de l'UNESCO et sur la base de sa propre  expérience, aux programmes d'alphabétisation dans les pays en développement, de transposer les méthodes  d'alphabétisation par la radio que nous utilisons en Amérique latine et en Afrique, et d'accroître son soutien au Bureau  régional pour la culture en Amérique latine et dans les Caraïbes, dont le siège est à La Havane, en faveur de ces  programmes et d'autres encore.
(33.4) Malgré ses problèmes économiques et le manque de ressources, de 1965 à aujourd'hui, Cuba a assuré une  formation et un diplôme à des milliers d'étudiants étrangers venant surtout d'Afrique, d'Amérique latine et des Caraïbes et  d'Asie, dont 15.946 au niveau universitaire. L'Ecole latino-américaine de médecine et l'Ecole internationale des sports, sises  toutes les deux à La Havane, ont ouvert un espace supplémentaire pour former de nouvelles générations de spécialistes
60  ressortissants de pays en développement ou appartenant à des minorités ethniques et défavorisées des Etats-Unis eux- mêmes.
(33.5) L'urgence du travail de préservation de la richesse culturelle de l'humanité dans toute sa diversité, face au danger  que représentent la résurgence de manifestations irrationnelles de violence, de xénophobie, d'intolérance, de racisme et de  néofascisme, ainsi que les tentatives visant à imposer une culture homogénéisée, une forme de pensée unique, à partir de la  mondialisation néolibérale et de l'hégémonie d'une seule superpuissance et de la domination de ses entreprises  transnationales, oblige à prendre des mesures concrètes, dans chaque pays, pour défendre et promouvoir la culture nationale  dans toute sa pluralité, tant en ce qui concerne le patrimoine et les traditions que dans le domaine de la création  contemporaine. Il faut de même assurer dans chaque pays la plus large diffusion du patrimoine culturel universel et de la  production artistique mondiale actuelle.
(33.6) A Cuba, la formation culturelle intégrale des élèves à tous les niveaux de l'enseignement, et de la population en  général, a reçu une attention prioritaire et une importante impulsion ces dernières années. Nous avons récemment célébré le  premier anniversaire d'un projet télévisuel intitulé "L'université pour tous", auquel ont contribué, au stade de la conception  et du déroulement, un grand nombre d'éminents enseignants, spécialistes et scientifiques du pays et qui a trouvé un accueil  et un écho très favorables dans la population cubaine. Ce projet vise à diffuser des connaissances utiles à la réflexion et au  débat dans une vaste gamme de matières, afin de contribuer à développer l'identité nationale, élargir la vocation universelle,  faire prendre conscience de la nécessité de protéger et de préserver l'environnement, éliminer les barrières linguistiques  entre les peuples et faire apprécier les arts, notamment. Dans ce domaine, les universités cubaines mettent en oeuvre de  vastes projets communautaires qui concernent, entre autres, les actions d'entraide et les traditions, la mémoire historique et  les jumelages entre institutions éducatives et culturelles, au niveau tant national qu'international.
(33.7) Lorsque l'humanité est menacée de guerres d'une nature et d'une ampleur imprévisibles, la responsabilité de la  science et des scientifiques grandit face à ces menaces, et il faut mettre toutes les connaissances accumulées au service de  la solution des problèmes mondiaux pressants que sont la pauvreté, la dégradation de l'environnement, les carences de la  santé publique, le manque de sécurité alimentaire et d'accès à l'eau potable, entre autres. Il faut s'opposer à la privatisation  du savoir, prônée par les politiques néo-libérales, il faut mettre un frein à l'élargissement du fossé scientifique et  technologique, qui se traduit par des différences de pouvoir économique, politique et culturel entre les nations, ce qui  compromet gravement l'accès de tous aux connaissances et s'oppose de manière directe aux intérêts légitimes des peuples et  des nations. De même, on a besoin de politiques nationales concernant la science et la technologie qui facilitent les  interactions et la communication entre les pays et les groupes, qui reconnaissent le rôle clé de la recherche scientifique et  technologique dans l'acquisition des connaissances, dans la formation des scientifiques et dans l'éducation de la société. A  ce sujet, je puis affirmer que la science, à Cuba, se consacre totalement à la recherche de solutions qui favorisent le  développement durable, la justice sociale et la paix mondiale.
(33.8) Les nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication - avec le dynamisme dont elles sont porteuses,  de même que leurs applications - ont modifié les paradigmes et apporté de nouvelles réponses aux demandes des peuples.  La fracture numérique sépare les "info-riches" des "info-pauvres". Des indicateurs tels que la densité des lignes  téléphoniques, l'état de la téléphonie sans fil ou cellulaire, le nombre d'ordinateurs, les réseaux informatiques figurent parmi  les éléments différenciateurs qui, bien souvent, constituent des obstacles au développement. Il faut pourtant souligner que  l'informatisation de la société n'est pas liée uniquement à l'accès à l'Internet ni à la quantité d'ordinateurs reliés avec  IP individuel. A Cuba, on élabore un projet national pour former et préparer, dès le plus jeune âge et sans exclusion, les  citoyens à ces nouvelles technologies, en mettant l'être humain au premier plan. L'objectif étant d'apporter la science, la  technologie, l'éducation et la culture aux zones les plus reculées du pays et de faire de la recherche scientifique le  patrimoine de tous, on a créé le Programme des jeunes clubs d'informatique dans toutes les municipalités des 14 provinces.  Dans l'enseignement supérieur, on a une vision décentralisée de l'université, et on vise à multiplier les options d'accès aux  troisième et quatrième niveaux d'enseignement. On travaille à la consolidation du système national d'enseignement à  distance et à la création du Centre de téléinformation universitaire dans la communauté, avec le soutien matériel et  financier de notre gouvernement pour satisfaire ces aspirations. Toutes ces stratégies nous ont permis de vaincre dans notre  pays les obstacles matériels et d'avancer dans la bonne direction.
(33.9) Maintenant que s'approche le 150e anniversaire de la naissance de José Martí, qui fut un symbole de paix, d'unité  et de justice à l'échelle planétaire, il ne me reste qu'à réaffirmer la volonté de Cuba de partager son expérience et de  contribuer au développement des programmes de l'UNESCO visant à plus d'équité, de justice sociale et de bien-être  matériel et spirituel des peuples et des nations, avec l'assurance que c'est le seul chemin propre à conduire vers une paix  véritable et permanente. Je vous remercie.
34.1 The PRESIDENT:   I thank the distinguished Minister from Cuba. I would like to say that, as an academic, I was delighted to hear  about your television-based university and developments in that connection.
34.2 We have now reached the end of our morning meeting. Before I adjourn the meeting I would like to remind  distinguished ministers and heads of delegations that it would be very helpful to us if they would limit their statements  to eight minutes. We will start again this afternoon at 3 o’clock. I wish you a good lunch. The meeting stands adjourned.