419    Quatorzième séance plénière
23 octobre 2001 à 10 h.20  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d'Iran)  Fourteenth plenary meeting
23 October 2001 at 10.20 a.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)    Decimocuarta sesión plenaria
1. The PRESIDENT:   Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the fourteenth plenary meeting, at which we  will continue our general policy debate. I call upon our first speaker, His Excellency the Minister of State for Education  and Science of Equatorial Guinea, Mr Antonio-Fernando Nve Ngu. Excellency, you have the floor.
(2.1) Mr NVE NGU (Equatorial Guinea) (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, allow me to say, first of all, on behalf of the delegation of Equatorial Guinea, that we congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election as President of the 31st session of the General Conference of our Organization. We are sure  that, with your long experience and the contribution of all delegations, this Conference will achieve great successes.
(2.2) I should also like to take this opportunity to express the Equatorial Guinea delegation’s congratulations to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board and the Director-General on the organization and quality of the studies they have  submitted. At the same time, we should like to congratulate the Director-General on the significant reforms to the  Organization he has introduced, and for the programme of action he has presented, which we are sure will strengthen the  Organization and enable it to achieve the objectives for which it was founded.
(2.3) I bring you greetings of peace and fraternity from His Excellency the President of Equatorial Guinea, Teodoro  Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, to all delegations to this, the 31st session of the General Conference and the first to be held in  this century and millennium.
(2.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my country’s Government has embarked on a process of thoroughgoing  transformation of its political, administrative, social and cultural structures through a comprehensive governance  programme in which all of the nation’s prime movers have taken part, right from the design and definition stages, at the  Government’s behest and in cooperation with the United Nations system. The purpose of the programme is progressively to  endow Equatorial Guinea society with the values of tolerance, dialogue and peaceful coexistence among the various  cultural, religious and political schools of thought; to consolidate the basic principles of the rule of law; to guarantee social  equity; and rationally and transparently to manage public resources while taking key measures conducive to the reduction  of poverty.
(2.5) The social dimension of the governance programme adopted by the Government emphasizes those objectives that  tend to improve people’s living conditions through the efficient provision of basic public services, in particular education,  health, drinking water and a cleaner environment. The Government is aware that to achieve these lofty goals, education is a  fundamental prerequisite, since education generates positive effects for society both in the area of labour productivity and  in disease prevention, even while it favours political and social stability. On the basis of these convictions, education in  equatorial Guinea is focused on: “Strengthening the foundations of all-round human training, the harmonious development  of the personality, preparation for the responsible exercise of freedom, the noble pursuit of the fundamentals of Africanity  and of our linguistic and cultural commonality, fostering the spirit of coexistence, understanding and international  cooperation, and the acquisition of habits of study and work and the capacity to carry on professional activities, which are  the driving force of the nation’s social, cultural and economic development”.
(2.6) The Government’s programme to achieve these objectives is as follows: to guarantee free and compulsory  primary education from the age of five to the age of 12; to make basic education universal through the adoption of policies  that guarantee equal opportunity in terms of access to education; to reduce illiteracy through special adult literacy  programmes, in particular for women; to encourage schooling for girls; to update primary and secondary teaching curricula;  to train human resources; to phase in advanced communications technologies in schools; and to reinforce the progress made  in non-formal pre-school teaching of children aged three to five.
(2.7) These programmes, and the recommendations adopted by the Government of Equatorial Guinea that are  contained in the world initiative on Education for All, together with the recommendations of the Dakar Forum, constitute  the Government’s priorities, which are designed to educate the people of Equatorial Guinea in harmonious coexistence. It is  clear, distinguished delegates, that in order to carry out such an ambitious programme, it is necessary to mobilize very  significant human and financial resources if we are to tackle properly the objectives we have set ourselves. That being so,  the Government and the Chamber of People’s Representatives (the Parliament of Equatorial Guinea), at its plenary meeting,
422  held from 27 September to 11 October 2001, reached agreement on an education budget increased by 350% over that of the  previous year. We are confident that, as in the past, we shall be receiving technical and financial assistance from UNESCO  for the purposes that I have just described.
(2.8) The Equatorial Guinea delegation welcomes the contents of documents 31 C/4 and 31 C/5, whose objectives  correspond to the goals assigned to the educational, cultural and scientific sectors, among others, by the Government of  Equatorial Guinea. We can thus predict that there will be greater cooperation among the parties with a view to creating a  world environment that favours tolerance, intercultural dialogue and peaceful coexistence. In that spirit, I should like to  take this opportunity, on behalf of my delegation and in solidarity with the resolution adopted by this Conference, to  reiterate the condemnation by the people and Government of Equatorial Guinea of all types of terrorism and, in particular,  of the events of 11 September in the United States of America. Thank you very much.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency.  (The President continues in Arabic)
(4.1) Mr YAKHLUF (Palestine) (Translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board,  Ministers, distinguished members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to convey to you the greetings of the  Palestinian people, the Palestinian leadership, the Palestinian Committee for Education, Culture and Science, and the  Minister of Culture, Mr Yaser Abed Rabbo. I should like to reiterate to you our great respect for this Organization and its  noble objectives, in which are embodied the aspirations of humanity for a world of peace and cooperation between all  people, a world in which all States are committed to the principles of freedom and justice, a world which mobilizes the  efforts of all for the good of the planet, which is the only home of humanity.
(4.2) How could the Palestinian people fail to esteem your noble Organization or value its constructive objectives? For  each Palestinian has suffered and continues to suffer shameful oppression which touches the lives of children, women and  men alike, and threatens crops, trees, homes, schools and the heritage. How could the Palestinian people fail to embrace the  lofty goals which they are labouring to achieve, and which they consider to be a part of their national goals and of their  demands for justice and right as the only basis for peace, coexistence and the construction of the future, which are the  foundation of UNESCO and its objectives? I am pleased to take the valuable opportunity provided by the platform of this  venerable organization for education, science and culture to convey to you the pride felt by the Palestinian people in  response to the active moral support that UNESCO has expressed and continues to express for the Palestinian struggle for  national independence and dignity, and with respect to our keen desire to join the United Nations system of free humanity  and its institutions as a fully-fledged member, and to participate with our aspirations, honed by adversity and by the  experience of pain, exile and the struggle for justice, in building a world of security, justice, freedom and stability for future  generations. Such security is our entitlement as it is the entitlement of our children and of all people, whatever their race,  religion, sex, language or colour.
(4.3) Ladies and gentlemen, at this time of explosions and angry voices, of falling bombs and falling bodies, when  things and opinions, and even narrow interests, all seem confused, the constructive role which UNESCO could, and indeed  must, play in eradicating violence and terrorism is quite clear. There is an ever greater need for the ethical and intellectual  mission which it proclaims and seeks to disseminate, and for greater efforts to be made to invest in educational, scientific  and cultural policies, not only in order to overcome the difficulties that we are experiencing today, but also to devise a  lasting solution for the deep-rooted problems facing the societies of the South. There is no need to repeat what we all know,  that terrorism is engendered by despair and is a sign that all avenues are blocked. When no options are left, when there  seems to be no tomorrow and the future is bleak, it is then that the seeds of terrorism are sown and the ground is prepared  for extremism and the desire to destroy. So has the time now come for wisdom and understanding and an effort to tackle  the deep roots of oppression and despair? Here we must distinguish between terrorism and national liberation struggles, the  struggles of peoples who are subjected to occupation, oppression and aggression. Has the time not come for humanity to  close ranks in order to achieve a just solution to the long-standing tragedy of the Palestinian people, to enforce their rights  and ensure the application of international legality? Mention must be made, in this connection, of UNESCO’s great role in  raising collective awareness of human values, civil rights and the dignity of human beings, and in inculcating the  conviction that human destiny is the affair of each and every individual, and not just of the powerful.
(4.4) In this connection, we must commend the bold and ambitious programme of reform undertaken by UNESCO  since Mr Koïchiro Matsuura took office as the Director-General of the Organization, and also the strong support offered to  the programme by the Executive Board. We all hope and expect that at its current session, the General Conference of  UNESCO will forcefully and with clarity reaffirm its support for this programme.
(4.5) Speaking of UNESCO’s great mission with regard to fostering humanitarian awareness, I am bound to command  the Organization’s considerable moral role in supporting the rights of Palestinians and the preservation of the Palestinian  cultural identity and heritage, in supporting Palestinian schools and universities, in helping to establish contacts with the  outside world, and in lifting the blockade that is still in place. In the autumn of 1993 UNESCO began to develop the  Programme of Action in favour of the Palestinian People, the first two stages of which helped to improve the functioning of  our educational and cultural institutions. We all trust that you will continue your support for this programme, which has  recently encountered difficulties as a result of the brutal measures taken by the occupation forces, including deliberate  sabotage. We also hope that your esteemed Conference will adopt a resolution according Palestine priority treatment in  UNESCO’s programme in order to help us rebuild our schools and other educational and cultural institutions and clear the  rubble resulting from the policies of demolition, closure, collective punishment and environmental sabotage, and attempts  to falsify the history of the area. Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished delegates, I should like to reiterate  Palestine’s strong desire to become a Member of UNESCO with full rights and duties in order to contribute to its task of  building a secure future based on freedom, justice and equality.
(4.6) From our position today, we should like to express forcefully to the Director-General our support for the  initiatives he announced at the beginning of the General Conference. We shall also stand firmly with him in his efforts to  ensure cultural diversity and dialogue among civilizations which gives full consideration to all of the humanitarian  elements, and the values and principles on which human civilization has rested over the ages. I am also pleased to  commend the Director-General’s efforts and particular concern with regard to the tangible and intangible heritage and the  components thereof that are linked to popular memory and threatened with extinction or oblivion. It is natural that  UNESCO should have devoted particular attention to the archaeological and cultural sites of Jerusalem, and that it has  adopted numerous resolutions and decisions concerning the preservation and protection of its cultural heritage. For as the  Director-General said in his opening statement, that city is part of the human heritage, and as such concerns all of humanity  and not just the followers of the three monotheistic religions. Yet, this holy city is suffering greatly: the international  experts, whose integrity and objectivity is in no doubt, have reported with complete scientific objectivity on the scale of the
425  danger threatening it, and the grave disfigurement that has jeopardized and continues to jeopardize its heritage, its cultural  nature and its equilibrium as a city and as a site inscribed on the World Heritage List and the List of World Heritage in  Danger. In view of Israel’s refusal to cooperate pursuant to UNESCO’s resolutions and decisions, and its persistence in  obstructing the Organization’s efforts and plans aimed at preserving the heritage of Jerusalem and protecting it from  disfigurement, we cherish the hope that the General Conference may reiterate its determination to ensure the  implementation of its resolutions and decisions on this subject, and take the initiative of establishing a fund for the  protection of the heritage of this holy city and the preservation of its sites from the plans of destruction and disfigurement  to which it is exposed, and which the Israeli occupation authorities are bent on pursuing.
(4.7) Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ministers, distinguished  members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I salute you and thank you for your attention. On behalf of the Palestinian  people, I should like to thank you for your continuing support. Peace be with you.   :א ٥,١ א  ، א ،  .א
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your excellent statement.  (The President continues in English)
5.2 Your Excellency, Professor Alexandru Mironov, distinguished Secretary-General of the National Commission  of Romania, we are waiting to hear from you. I invite you to take the floor, sir.
6.1 M. MIRONOV (Roumanie) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je devrais théoriquement, comme à chaque session de la  Conférence générale, vous présenter un rapport sur les activités UNESCO dans mon pays, l'influence que cette noble  organisation exerce sur les citoyens de Roumanie, les progrès que nous avons faits au cours des deux dernières années.  Je le ferai, mais très brièvement, car les horloges du monde nous appellent à d'autres urgences et la Conférence générale  a devant elle des tâches extrêmement importantes qui intéressent, je crois, l'existence même des représentants de  l'espèce Sapiens sur la terre.
6.2 La Commission nationale travaille bien, comme l'attestent plus d'une centaine d'actions UNESCO menées dans  tout le pays et neuf projets en cours au titre du Programme de participation. Une très bonne coopération avec le  Ministère de l'éducation et de la recherche, le Ministère de la culture et des cultes, le Ministère de la jeunesse et des  sports et avec l'Académie roumaine nous assure les possibilités de fonctionnement dont nous avons besoin. De plus,  grâce aux 47 clubs UNESCO de Roumanie et aux 54 écoles associées à l'UNESCO et aux dizaines de représentants des  médias roumains avec qui nous sommes en contact permanent, nous disposons d'un appui qui est très solide et qui  promet énormément pour l'avenir.
6.3 Je dirai quelques mots au sujet de l'éducation. C'est le domaine le plus dynamique, où la réforme se poursuit. Il  ne s'agit pas d'un but en soi, mais d'une transformation tout à fait naturelle et fonctionnelle. Nous nous efforçons  d'autonomiser au maximum les universités, de lutter contre l'absentéisme et d'élargir le cadre de l'éducation, en ajoutant  aux moyens de l'école classique ceux des médias (télévision et radio, surtout), l'éducation par les technologies de  l'information, domaine où nous sommes très actifs, et l'éducation pour tous tout au long de la vie.
6.4 La culture, quant à elle, bouge enfin. On regagne ce qu'on avait perdu, grâce à une réorganisation du Ministère  de la culture et des cultes, et surtout à l'apparition tant attendue d'un ensemble de directeurs culturels capables  d'organiser des manifestations culturelles de haut niveau dans les endroits où ils vivent, un excellent exemple étant le  Festival dit "Eco-Ethno-Folk" qui, à sa 3e édition, a réuni plus de 100 participants, auteurs de films documentaires, de
36 pays, dans un village roumain, Slatioara de Olt, au Foyer culturel de la commune ! Il est à souligner que la  Commission nationale vient de lancer, en collaboration avec le Ministère de la culture et des cultes, quatre campagnes  d'ampleur nationale : "La campagne pour le livre", "Pro Théâtre", "La musique du monde" et "Le monde où nous  vivons" (programme de vulgarisation de la science et des techniques), qui se maintiendront en tant qu'activités  permanentes pendant, j'espère, de longues années. Les réserves de la culture sont énormes - et il nous faut des initiatives  en cascade pour les faire sortir de l'ombre et faire connaître des produits culturels qui sont de grande valeur.
6.5 Dans le domaine de la science, des problèmes persistent et les scientifiques sont encore en déroute, comme  dans tous les pays ex-socialistes. Cependant, l'Académie des sciences se porte bien, une bonne réorganisation et une  direction culturelle de haute stature faisant de "l'institution des immortels" un endroit très respecté. Par ailleurs, le  Ministère de l'éducation et de la recherche a entrepris de réorganiser les instituts de recherche scientifique, en les
426  rapprochant du monde universitaire, dans l'espoir d'engranger les fruits de ce qu'on appelle maintenant la "civilisation  de l'innovation", vraie maîtresse du monde.
6.6 J'en viens à la communication. Le nombre des ordinateurs dans les écoles, dans l'administration et dans les  foyers augmente, de même que l'usage de l'Internet. Mais il faudra attendre la fin de 2002 pour démocratiser vraiment  les technologies de l'information en raison d'une privatisation mal faite de Romtelecom, notre compagnie de  communication, qui n'est plus un monopole d'Etat mais un monopole privé (ce qui, bien sûr, n'arrange pas les choses et  augmente les coûts de l'Internet).
6.7 Cela étant, c'est plutôt dans le domaine de la société civile que nous ressentons vraiment les effets de l'avancée  de la démocratie et de l'ouverture du pays vers tous les horizons. Les clubs UNESCO et les écoles associées ne sont  qu'une petite partie de la société civile intellectuelle qui nous entoure et nous aide. A cet égard, il convient de signaler  que c'est en Roumanie, dans notre Centre UNESCO de Busteni, dans les Carpathes, que la Fédération européenne des  Associations, Centres et Clubs UNESCO s'est constituée, le siège du secrétariat de la FEACU étant à Busteni.  (The speaker continues in English)
6.8 And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express our support for the victims of the terrorist attack of
11 September 2001, to back up the political decisions taken by the Government of Romania and to develop them within  the framework of UNESCO, which I consider to be – allow me this metaphor – the frontal lobe of the cortex of  humankind. It is here that we should consider the political events of this abnormal, absurd, aberrant autumn – or spring,  depending on where you live – as intellectuals, representatives of the culturally most advanced segment of the world  population. It is here that we have to decide whether the moment has come for the powerful leaders of the world to turn  their ears and eyes towards us – and to listen to the voices of writers, poets, scientists and artists, which are the voices of  reason. In other words, let us make the politicians, the generals, the religious leaders and the diplomats pay attention to  what we have to say, because we have transformed Homo sapiens from an animal, a natural being, into a social being.  And it is we, the intellectuals, who will find the proper path for the sanctification of the human being! I shall therefore  underline some of the proposals already made by other participants and add some new ideas. Yes, we intellectuals must  condemn terrorism but we must also rethink globalization after 11 September and look at the roots of the phenomenon.  The world is now ripe for a new level of education. The culture of peace, the culture of non-violence, should enter all  the classrooms of the world, and rid us of war toys for children, and violent movies, books, TV or radio broadcasts. We  need some form of censorship to be exercised by parents, concerned that the lives of their offspring are not controlled  by the world economy. Respect and concern for the human being and for life itself should be aspects of education too,  as well as respect for diversity and difference – for dialogue is the best tool Homo sapiens has invented – thus  promoting the real values and immense cultural treasure of humankind as a whole.
6.9 Democracy is, yes, the best instrument we have. But we must work upon the concept and apply it to the  economy: democracy cannot exist in a world where half the population earns less than $2 a day! Economic activities  ignore democracy and trust only in one God: profit! Let us fight for a more rational output, for a free social market, for  a humanity in which countries and transnational companies feel compelled to be concerned about the day-to-day lives  of poor people in poor countries, helping them to build systems of education, health services, modern communications,  modern infrastructures. Then might democracy come true for all and bring its essential fruits, which are universal  suffrage in all countries of the world, absolute equality between men and women all over the world, a fair share of  information and knowledge for every country and every human being, access for all to education and health services  and a set of laws – at least a nucleus, that much-mentioned “acquis communautaire” – for all citizens of the world,  which subjects even religious beliefs to rational laws.
6.10 Then the security we long for will come, because the poor will not feel outcasts anymore and, knowing that  their lives are worth living, they will, as rational beings, not choose terrorism as the only solution to a worthless life.  (L'orateur poursuit en français)
6.11 Si l'UNESCO n'existait pas, il faudrait l'inventer, disait récemment l'ambassadeur de Roumanie devant cette  éminente assemblée des intellectuels du monde entier. Certes, mais je dirais néanmoins qu'il faut réinventer une bonne  partie des activités de l'UNESCO. Plus de pragmatisme, plus de détermination dans l'application et le suivi des  résolutions que les intellectuels adoptent, plus d'orientation vers l'avenir, vers l'étude des voies de l'avenir, pour trouver  les réponses possibles aux problèmes soulevés par la complexité de l'humanité. L'UNESCO a un rôle absolument  irremplaçable à jouer dans la civilisation du XXIe siècle. Je vous remercie.
7. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. We have with us the distinguished Minister of National Education and  Scientific Research of the Central African Republic, His Excellency Mr Timoléon Mbaïkoua. Excellency, I invite you  to take the floor.
8.1 M. MBAÏKOUA (République centrafricaine) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, chefs de délégation, honorables délégués et  observateurs, Mesdames, Messieurs, c'est pour moi un réel plaisir et un grand honneur de joindre ma voix à celles des  éminents orateurs qui m'ont précédé pour vous présenter, Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation que je  conduis, mes plus vifs compliments pour votre brillante élection. Ma délégation vous assure de son appui total dans  l'accomplissement de votre mission.
8.2 Je rends hommage à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et au Directeur général de l'UNESCO pour les  efforts qu'ils ont consentis, avec le Secrétariat, en vue d'assurer la préparation matérielle et intellectuelle de la présente  Conférence.
8.3 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, je voudrais également, au nom du Président de la République  centrafricaine et de mon gouvernement, exprimer la gratitude de mon pays à tous les Etats membres qui ont non  seulement condamné le coup d'Etat manqué du 28 mai de cette année, mais surtout partagé les moments douloureux que  nous avons connus.
8.4 A ce sujet, le Gouvernement centrafricain saisit par ma voix cette occasion pour exprimer sa profonde gratitude  à l'Agence intergouvernementale de la Francophonie, qui a répondu sans ambages à l'appel de détresse des victimes de  ce malheureux événement par un effort financier substantiel.
8.5 Ce coup de force, le quatrième depuis 1996, a porté un préjudice grave à la République centrafricaine, dont  l'économie en est restée meurtrie ; de surcroît, il a constitué un véritable frein au développement économique et social.  Les explosions de violence répétées que mon pays a subies ont créé un climat d'insécurité, caractérisé par des  déplacements de population. Cette situation constitue un sujet de préoccupation pour le gouvernement, qui est  déterminé à assurer le retour dans leurs foyers des hommes, des femmes, et tout particulièrement des enfants ainsi  déstabilisés.
8.6 Nous saisissons cette occasion pour réitérer auprès de l'UNESCO notre demande d'aide d'urgence en faveur des  populations déplacées, en vue d'organiser des actions de sensibilisation des collectivités locales et de stimuler la reprise  des activités socio-économiques en République centrafricaine.
8.7 En Centrafrique comme partout ailleurs, la paix est la condition du développement. Cette paix exige le  concours de toutes les composantes de la société et de toutes les bonnes volontés. C'est pourquoi je voudrais en appeler  à l'UNESCO afin qu'elle nous assiste dans les efforts que nous consacrons en priorité à la culture de la paix, ainsi qu'à  l'éducation et à la science.
8.8 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, la tenue de la 31e session de la Conférence générale marque une  étape importante dans l'évolution de notre Organisation. Outre qu'elle inaugure le troisième millénaire, notre réunion  doit jeter les bases de solutions durables aux nombreux défis que nous lègue le siècle dernier.
8.9 On assiste aujourd'hui à une vertigineuse montée de la violence, dont les principales causes demeurent souvent  l'ignorance, le tribalisme, l'intolérance, le nationalisme excessif, la méconnaissance des droits de l'homme et surtout la  pauvreté qui fragilise la paix sociale. C'est ici pour nous le lieu de condamner énergiquement les événements iniques du
11 septembre 2001 aux Etats-Unis qui, si la communauté internationale n'y prend pas garde, risquent d'ébranler  profondément l'équilibre et la paix dans le monde.
8.10 C'est pourquoi mon pays réaffirme que l'UNESCO demeure le seul haut lieu de débat et de réflexion capable  de forger un monde où règnent la paix et la justice, grâce à l'éducation, à la science et à la culture.
8.11 La mission de l'Organisation devra donc l'amener à analyser, sous leurs diverses formes, les facteurs de guerre,  les causes des conflits et les foyers de tensions. Les inégalités entre les différentes régions du monde et entre les  diverses composantes d'une même société au sein d'un même pays menacent, si l'on n'y remédie pas, d'attiser la haine  des groupes marginalisés et démunis à l'heure où les pays riches manquent de solidarité envers les pays pauvres. Ces  inégalités vont s'aggraver et les différences se multiplier, créant une société à visage inhumain. On ne peut actuellement  pas comprendre les violences qui se produisent dans certaines régions du monde si l'on n'en analyse pas les causes  profondes - toutes les causes qui ont fait que la barbarie semble triompher de notre humanité.
8.12 Il est inconcevable aujourd'hui que la famine, les maladies ou la pauvreté continuent de retarder la croissance  économique et sociale de la majorité des pays du monde alors que notre planète est riche de connaissances et de savoirs  accumulés durant des millénaires.
8.13 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation tient à féliciter le Directeur général de l'UNESCO pour la pertinence de  la Stratégie à moyen terme pour 2002-2007 et du Projet de programme et de budget 2002-2003.
8.14 L'éducation reste le pivot de la lutte contre l'ignorance. A cet effet, l'accent doit être mis sur l'éducation pour  tous. L'information doit être développée afin d'assurer la circulation des idées et des connaissances. L'absence  d'information est souvent cause d'inertie, de retard dans le développement, de malentendus entre les peuples et de  conflits. Les nouvelles technologies doivent être partagées avec les pays pauvres. La culture, principale âme de chaque  peuple, doit être considérée dans la diversité. Nul n'a le droit d'imposer sa culture à un autre. La multiplicité et le  dialogue des cultures devraient être perçus comme une source de richesses et non de conflits. En revanche, l'émergence  d'une culture à connotation hégémonique pourrait conduire à des situations désastreuses. Le Président de la République  française, S. Exc. M. Jacques Chirac, l'a du reste fort éloquemment souligné dans l'allocution qu'il a prononcée devant  cette assemblée. Je le cite : "La réponse à la mondialisation-laminoir des cultures, c'est la diversité culturelle. Une  diversité fondée sur la conviction que chaque peuple a un message singulier à délivrer au monde, que chaque peuple  peut enrichir l'humanité en apportant sa part de beauté et sa part de vérité".
8.15 Enfin, l'UNESCO doit promouvoir la science, tout en veillant au respect de normes compatibles avec la  conscience humaine. A cet effet, la bioéthique est un enjeu qui devra constamment retenir l'attention de l'UNESCO pour  éviter que le progrès de la science, entre les mains de quelques personnes, ne mette en péril l'humanité tout entière. Du  reste, en ce début du troisième millénaire, la course à la mondialisation se poursuit, créant de nouveaux défis d'ordre  moral et éthique.
8.16 L'UNESCO devrait rappeler à tous les bonnes règles éthiques et ses nobles idéaux afin que les inventions et les  découvertes dues au génie humain ne se transforment pas en instruments de destruction, de contrôle et de domination,  mais, tout au contraire, soient utilisées dans un sens positif, au service de la justice et de l'épanouissement de toute  l'humanité.
8.17 Monsieur le Président, chacun sait que les pays les moins avancés sont confrontés à des difficultés budgétaires  et soumis aux contraintes des politiques d'ajustement macro-économique prônées par les institutions financières. Cette  situation risque en Afrique, si des mesures ne sont pas prises d'urgence, de pénaliser des projets de développement  socio-économique, notamment dans le domaine de l'éducation.
8.18 L'UNESCO, selon nous, doit jouer véritablement son rôle de "phare" et de "laboratoire d'idées", capable  d'entraîner dans son sillage les autres institutions par la pertinence et la justesse de ses analyses. Sa réflexion devra  anticiper les événements de telle sorte que son action ne soit pas contrainte par des considérations d'ordre économique  et financier. Au demeurant, c'est la force de l'esprit qui fait la prospérité économique, et non l'inverse.
8.19 La République centrafricaine pense que toute réforme de l'Organisation doit être dictée par le souci de  redynamiser les activités de l'UNESCO. Si les contraintes financières devaient l'emporter, l'Organisation risquerait de  voir sa liberté amoindrie, et la visibilité de ses actions en souffrirait. C'est pourquoi la République centrafricaine adresse  ses vives félicitations à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, le directeur général de l'UNESCO, pour les réformes qu'il a entreprises.
8.20 Un autre enjeu qu'il convient de souligner, Monsieur le Président, et qui est si bien évoqué dans le Projet de  Stratégie à moyen terme, est l'élimination de la pauvreté. Cet enjeu, qui a fait l'objet de plusieurs débats, est devenu un  lieu commun, voire un cliché à la mode, pour toutes les autres institutions du système des Nations Unies. On a même  l'impression que plus on parle de la pauvreté, plus les pays pauvres s'appauvrissent. Beaucoup de discours, peu  d'actions ! Comme vous le savez, les meilleures intentions ne sortent pas un peuple du chaos. Il faut agir et inciter à  agir, sinon il sera vain de demander à un pays pauvre de gagner le pari de l'éducation pour tous, le pari de la santé pour  tous ...
8.21 Comment un peuple qui ne peut assurer sa propre survie pourrait-il s'engager résolument dans d'aussi vastes  programmes ? A cet égard, ce qui appauvrit davantage c'est l'absence de solidarité internationale, la tendance à vouloir  maintenir les pays pauvres dans la pauvreté pour parer aux risques de crises internes dans les pays nantis. Nous nous  acheminons vers un monde où l'égoïsme rend sourd aux cris des misérables, un monde où, à terme, les plus forts  disposeront des plus faibles.
8.22 Dans mon pays, qui compte parmi les pays les moins avancés, la pauvreté commence à faire place à la misère  et à son triste cortège. Un cri de détresse est de ce fait lancé en direction de l'opinion internationale pour que des actions  concrètes soient engagées en vue de trouver des solutions durables aux problèmes liés à la pauvreté et aux problèmes de  santé et d'éducation.
8.23 Tout en félicitant le Directeur général de l'UNESCO de sa politique de restructuration, ma délégation souhaite  que la fermeture du Bureau hors Siège de Bangui, qui en est l'une des conséquences, soit compensée par une aide
429  financière permettant d'intensifier les actions menées dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de  la lutte contre la pauvreté. Cette approche contribuerait à freiner l'exode des compétences.
8.24 Par ailleurs, en ce qui concerne la sauvegarde et la protection du patrimoine mondial, le Parc de Manovo- Ngounda-Saint Floris, les zones écologiques de la Sangha-Mbaéré et la Basse-Lobaye constituent des priorités pour la  République centrafricaine.
8.25 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, mon pays accuse encore un retard pour ce qui est de la satisfaction  des besoins éducatifs de sa population. Les taux de scolarisation des filles et d'alphabétisation des femmes demeurent  faibles. Et pourtant des efforts importants continuent d'être déployés pour relever ces taux et permettre un décollage  économique effectif et durable du pays. C'est ainsi que la République centrafricaine, malgré ses difficultés  économiques, a jeté les bases d'un Programme national de développement de l'éducation (PNDE), qui vise à relever les  taux de scolarisation et d'alphabétisation, en offrant à la population des possibilités de formation conformes à ses  attentes, comme l'ont recommandé les Etats généraux de l'éducation en Centrafrique organisés en juin 1994. Le contenu  du PNDE répond parfaitement aux objectifs de la République centrafricaine, qui souhaite que l'UNESCO appuie ce  programme.
8.26 Les nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication ne sont accessibles qu'à une infime  fraction de la population. Aussi mon pays souhaiterait-il que l'Organisation appuie sa politique d'équipement des  établissements scolaires et universitaires en matériels informatiques et de renforcement des capacités nationales dans ce  domaine. De fait, les chances qui s'offrent au continent africain de tirer parti de la mondialisation dépendent avant tout  de la qualité de ses ressources humaines, de leur capacité d'affronter victorieusement les défis de la performance et de la  compétitivité. Seule l'action éducative pourrait ouvrir cette voie aux pays les moins avancés comme la République  centrafricaine.
8.27 C'est pourquoi ma délégation approuve le Projet de Stratégie à moyen terme et le Projet de programme et de  budget, dans la mesure où ces documents répondent à l'ensemble de nos préoccupations.
8.28 Monsieur le Président, honorables délégués, comme tous ceux qui ont foi dans les valeurs intellectuelles et  éthiques de l'UNESCO, organisation dont la vocation est de consolider la paix mondiale et la coopération internationale,  j'ai choisi de dire les espoirs de mon pays, ses attentes majeures à l'aube du XXIe siècle en espérant que mes paroles  trouveront un écho favorable. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
9. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Excellency. I would now like to invite the President of the Coordinating Committee for  International Voluntary Service, Mr Gianni Orsini, to address the plenary. You have the floor, sir.
10.1 M. ORSINI (Comité de coordination du service volontaire international) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, depuis la 30e session de la Conférence générale, le Comité de  coordination du service volontaire international, que j'ai l'honneur de représenter, a vécu à l'unisson avec l'UNESCO à  la fois les contre-coups de la restructuration et les moments forts de sa politique. En même temps, il a approfondi et  diversifié ses partenariats, avec des institutions intergouvernementales, des fondations, et d'autres ONG de volontariat  international, réaffirmant de la sorte la pertinence, voire la nécessité croissante de travailler en réseau. Des projets de  volontariat novateurs ont ainsi vu le jour dans les différentes régions du monde. Ces projets forment les cadres qui  doivent permettre à terme aux communautés locales d'être les acteurs ultimes de la gestion de leurs conflits et de leur  développement durable.
10.2 Dans cette perspective, nous voulions que 2000 Année de la culture de la paix et 2001-2010 "Décennie de la  promotion d'une culture de la non-violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde" fussent le cadre des cadres.  Nous avons intensément travaillé avec vous pour recueillir des milliers de signatures, et réalisé des projets locaux  méritant amplement le label "culture de la paix", tel ce séminaire sur "les outils de la paix" au Proche Orient au moment  même où éclatait la deuxième Intifada ou tout dernièrement celui pour "la paix et la réconciliation" à Kinshasa, au  moment où débute le dialogue intracongolais. Nous voulions, comme vous, avec vous, poser les pierres d'un futur qui  soit différent.
10.3 Les terribles événements du 11 septembre, et ceux postérieurs d'Afghanistan, ainsi que l'escalade de violence  au Moyen Orient laissent présager un futur difficile, combien différent de celui que nous espérions. Faut-il se résigner  ?  non  ! L'année 2001 clôture le biennium avec des symboles éloquents  : "Année des Nations Unies pour le dialogue  entre les civilisations" et aussi "Année internationale des volontaires", elle indique qu'il y a bien un autre chemin à  suivre. Nous le savions, les événements récents ne font que nous le rappeler brutalement.
10.4 La véritable culture de la paix en effet se bâtira sur le dialogue entre les civilisations ou ne se bâtira pas. Le  choc des civilisations est encore une modalité idéologique. La rencontre des civilisations, Monsieur le Président, est le  véritable défi à relever, localement et mondialement. Le prochain exercice biennal doit donc être celui du saut qualitatif,  qui transforme la terreur en confiance, défaisant les images des ennemis comme unique et irréfutable réalité et  défendant partout la reconnaissance des spécificités culturelles qui différencient et des valeurs fondamentales qui  réunissent. Pour ce faire, la véritable culture de la paix requiert un travail approfondi de la part de tous, institutions  intergouvernementales, Etats, ONG, société civile, en faveur du développement humain pour tous. Les chiffres  fantastique de la dette extérieure des pays les moins avancés, les déplacements massifs de populations, les pourcentages  croissant de "très grande" pauvreté, sont autant d'indicateurs qu'il n'est plus possible de négliger. Il n'y aura pas de paix  sans pain. Le dialogue Nord-Sud (Nord-Est-Sud faudrait-il dire) doit par conséquent se nourrir de l'action véritablement  porteuse de changements. Assez de paroles, des actes  !
10.5 Nous croyons en l'occurrence que le service volontaire international est un cadre privilégié pour l'enseignement  des valeurs, en ce qu'il allie la théorie et l'action. Les personnes, les groupes peuvent dépasser les préjugés pour peu  qu'ils puissent expérimenter la reconnaissance de l'autre, le respect mutuel et la solidarité à travers le service commun,  concret, utile envers des communautés tierces dans le besoin. Dans cet ordre d'idées, nous voudrions proposer que, sous  l'égide de l'UNESCO, des "chantiers de la paix" voient le jour, qui réunissent des personnes des différentes régions du  monde autour d'un objectif commun relevait des domaines de compétence de l'UNESCO. A l'instar de ces adolescents  d'Irlande du Nord, catholiques et protestants, qui reconstruisirent ensemble dans une banlieue de France un terrain de  jeux pour des enfants de familles marginalisées. Symboles au début, sans doute, ces "chantiers de la paix" pourraient  rapidement, en se multipliant, être des foyers de dialogue interculturel, propices au changement des attitudes et ayant  force d'exemple. Au bout du compte, nous souhaitons que les années à venir soient autant d'années internationales des  volontaires au service d'un dialogue véritable entre les cultures et les civilisations. Soyez assurés que les membres du  CCSVI sont disposés à mettre leur expérience au service de cette idée.
10.6 Pourtant, Monsieur le Président, si ces changements d'attitudes et de valeurs sont le préalable nécessaire à la  culture de la paix, ils ne sont pas suffisants. Il faudra développer aussi les structures de la paix pour pérenniser les  changements qui s'opèrent dans les coeurs, des structures basées sur la participation réelle et effective de la société  civile aux décisions affectant le développement collectif, mais surtout sur la justice, non discriminatoire, pour tous, qui  fonde un nouvel ordre juridique, économique, politique, international.
10.7 A côté du rôle de "référent intellectuel" qui lui incombe, l'UNESCO se doit donc de développer le rôle de  "référent éthique" qui devrait lui revenir, voire de conscience du monde, à la fois pour les Etats au sein du système des  Nations Unies et pour les personnes. Les femmes et les hommes du monde entier ont besoin de ce référent moral pour  croire que des structures de la paix sont possibles et oeuvrer pour les mettre en place.
10.8 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, sur ce terrain des structures de la paix, comme sur celui des  valeurs, veuillez croire que nous sommes à votre entière disposition pour aller de l'avant ensemble. Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
11. The PRESIDENT:    Mr Orsini, I have something for you, a box of After Eight, because you have saved us time. Please come here  to receive it. I would now like to invite the distinguished Counsellor to the Secretary-General of the World  Confederation of Teachers, Mr Brinkhoff, to address the plenary. You are welcome to take the floor, Sir.
12.1 Mr BRINKHOFF (World Confederation of Teachers (WCT)) :   Mr President, Madam Representative of the Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board,  honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the World Confederation of Teachers, a non–governmental organization  (NGO) grouping teachers’ organizations worldwide, would like to congratulate UNESCO for its efforts to set up a  follow-up system to expedite the implementation of the conclusions of the World Education Forum held in Dakar last  year.
12.2 We also wish to recommend to the Conference the adoption of the proposed draft recommendation on the  promotion and use of multilingualism and universal access to cyberspace. This recommendation is a necessary  instrument to facilitate access to information for learners and educators. Education for All (EFA) follow-up mechanisms  and structures are indeed becoming operational – the high-level group, the working group, the Education for All NGO  Collective Consultation, the global initiative, and others. Some are brand new, others are in the process of adjusting  their way of working so that it matches their newly defined mission. As a teachers’ organization very much concerned  with children and teachers, WCT really welcomes the progress made even if in some cases somewhat speedier action  would have been welcome. The deadline of 2002 for national programmes is drawing closer and time is short for many  countries. WCT calls therefore on the Member States represented at this General Conference to work together in a  constructive way with civil society to set up their national plans within the agreed deadline. WCT keeps urging its
431  national and regional member organizations worldwide to be very alert and most participative in this issue. Together we  have to make sure that this time the commitment to education for all by 2015 will not be in vain.
12.3 The establishment of sound education structures guaranteeing access to quality education for all is not the only  concern of WCT. We are convinced that quality education goes hand in hand with quality teachers. When speaking of  education one must always keep in mind that teachers are a key element, if only because education is a highly labour- intensive sector based essentially on human relations. But quality of teachers has everything to do with quality initial  and in-service training, with participation of teachers in educational policy-making at all levels, and with decent  working conditions for teachers. Investing in teachers’ working conditions means investing in quality education. The  need to repeat this again and again is highlighted by the conclusions of the 1999 UNESCO World Report on Education  which stated that the condition of teachers worldwide had grown worse over the previous three decades. In its 2000  report, based on the reports of its national member organization, WCT comes to exactly the same conclusion. In spite of  this, more than fifty million teachers the world over are fulfilling, day after day, their noble mission.
12.4 In WCT’s view, quality education goes hand in hand with values education – such values as a culture of peace  and tolerance, sustainable development, citizenship, etc. “Learning to live together” was the theme of the International  Conference on Education in September last. Certainly today, after the dramatic events we have witnessed, WCT is  convinced that quality education, related to values education, also needs to be addressed in teacher training. But it is in  fact very difficult to teach values of peace, justice and tolerance when the teaching profession is undervalued and  teachers themselves are victims of social injustice instead of justice. It was certainly much appreciated when on
5 September teachers worldwide heard the message that they are indispensable to achieve quality lifelong education for  all, but it would be even more appreciated if that message were also translated, in their daily lives, into decent salaries  and working conditions.
12.5 During the recent International Conference on Education in Geneva, the role of NGOs in the implementation of  the EFA goals was very strongly stressed during the special session. WCT believes that all forms of education and all  social actors involved in education should work together in order to make education for all a reality. We state clearly  here that formal education is the normal way to education. But in the knowledge society we are in already, we cannot  afford to exclude individuals from education, and so exclude them from society, for whatever reason: social origin,  gender, colour, religion, language, disability, or any other.
12.6 WCT is also of the opinion that if UNESCO and its Member States are really serious about the role that the  NGO community and civil society can, should and must play in the implementation of the objectives of UNESCO, this  has to be reflected, in one way or another, in the structures of UNESCO. WCT is happy that progress has been recorded  in improving the relations and the place of the NGO community within UNESCO, but much more can be done and  needs to be done to develop a culture of partnership. As a member of the present Liaison Committee, WCT is very  much committed to this goal and wishes to assure UNESCO that it will continue to be so committed.
12.7 In conclusion, without quality teachers the four goals of education for this century, identified in the Delors  report as learning to know, to do, to be and to live together, will never be achieved. These four goals will be fully  reflected in our next congress. Education professionals and actors of social inclusion must be given the necessary means,  in forms of training, financial resources, infrastructure, human resources and working conditions to put them in a  position to participate fully in guaranteeing quality lifelong education for all children. Society in the twenty-first century  needs education more than ever, and investing in education, especially in teacher training, must therefore be a top  priority, so as to give our teachers the right competencies for “learning to be” and “learning to live together”. I have to  remind you that, back in 1972, UNESCO published the report of the International Commission on the Development of  Education headed by Edgar Faure, “Learning to be”. In most countries this is not implemented because the focus  remains solely on “learning to know”.
12.8 We therefore ask UNESCO and the Member States to work out and introduce a new policy along these lines  for the Medium-Term Strategy and to invest in these kinds of programmes so that together we can work towards the  realization of our commitment to the Delors report. I thank you for your attention.
13. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I would now like to invite the distinguished President of the World Federation of  UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations, Mr Paul Ortega, to address the plenary. You have the floor, sir.
(14.1) Mr ORTEGA (World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations (WFUCA)) (Translation from the  Spanish):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations is celebrating its twentieth anniversary  this year, 2001. Since the first group of friends of UNESCO was set up in Sendai, Japan, in 1947, thousands of UNESCO  clubs, centres and associations have been founded, but it was not until 1981 that their worldwide network was formalized.  This is obviously an important anniversary for our Federation, but also, we believe, for the Organization and the whole  “UNESCO family”. It has often been pointed out that UNESCO is not just one building on the Place de Fontenoy in Paris.  No, UNESCO is much more than that; it is also the whole community of persons in this world who are involved in  promoting our Organization’s objectives and values. And among all of these people, those who belong to the UNESCO  clubs, centres and associations are a special breed, as day by day, at the grassroots of civil society, they work to implement  the Organization’s principles and programmes.
(14.2) Mr President, we shall list, though only very briefly, some of our Federation’s current lines of action and  concerns, just to bring you up to date on our work. At the moment, WFUCA is putting the finishing touches to its  regionalization and decentralization process. Together with the existing federations of the Asia and Africa regions, in  February 2001 the European Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations was created, which brings together  the immense majority of the national federations of Europe. We are also working to see to it that similar coordination and  mutual support linkages will be possible in the near future in the Arab countries and also in Latin America and the  Caribbean. One of our main objectives is to see steady improvement in the management of our movement. We should also  like to create a presence in those countries where no UNESCO clubs or centres yet exist.
(14.3) We also want to emphasize the increasingly close and satisfactory relationship that is developing between  national committees and UNESCO clubs, centres and associations as a result of everyone’s concerted efforts. In addition,  WFUCA, with UNESCO’s support, is considering the future identity and role of the UNESCO centres in the general  context of our Federation. In particular, we are giving careful consideration to the role to be played by those centres with a  stable, professional structure, which have an international service vocation.
(14.4) Another special initiative is our action to promote and empower the young leaders of our movement of UNESCO  clubs, centres and associations by means of training seminars and meetings, including some at the international level, and  through the creation of cooperative networks.
(14.5) We are finding that these meetings and cooperative activities among leaders of the world’s civil societies are  certainly one of the most useful contributions WFUCA can make in the current situation. For that reason, I should like to  end my statement by echoing the challenge thrown out by the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura: to strengthen  understanding between cultures, to learn and teach more about them, and to accept and respect different cultures and beliefs.  In this indispensable effort, UNESCO can count in particular on the assistance of WFUCA. Thank you very much.
15. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I would now like to call the distinguished Vice-President of the International Council  for Engineering and Technology, Mr Philippe Aussourd. You have the floor, sir.
16.1 M. AUSSOURD (Conseil international des sciences de l'ingénieur et de la technologie  (ICET)) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, je n'ai pas besoin de rappeler que l'UNESCO a inscrit sa  politique générale dans une perspective de soutien aux efforts de paix dans le monde et au développement de l'humanité  par la culture, l'éducation et la science. La science est en mesure d'apporter une contribution importante à cette oeuvre  fondamentale. Mais parmi les disciplines dites scientifiques, l'ingénierie et la technologie n'occupent pas toujours la  place qui leur revient.
16.2 En effet les lois de la physique sont intangibles, alors que les lois humaines s'adaptent au fur et à mesure, et  c'est parfois un reproche que l'on peut faire aux ingénieurs de s'aligner sur des systèmes par trop intangibles. Quand il  s'agit néanmoins de créer et de réaliser des outils, des matériels, des équipements, des infrastructures, c'est bien sûr à  l'art de l'ingénieur qu'il faut faire appel. Mais ceux qui agissent sont souvent critiqués. La présence de l'homme sur terre  touche à l'environnement et cette atteinte est souvent portée au débit du bras qui exécute. Je me permettrais de vous  rappeler la fable du poète grec Esope sur "les bras et l'estomac". Mais dans un monde sans ingénieurs, pas d'eau, pas de  cultures, pas d'énergie, aucune de ces ressources qui permettent à l'homme de consacrer du temps et des moyens à la  paix et au développement.
16.3 Plus de dix millions d'ingénieurs oeuvrent dans le monde entier au contact des populations et sur des sujets  particulièrement concrets : ne voilà-t-il pas un relais d'opinion tout trouvé et qui peut et doit se mettre au service des  plus nobles causes ?
16.4 Ces ingénieurs qui sont si nombreux partout dans le monde, ont d'ailleurs quantité de correspondants naturels  qui peuvent les aider dans cette tâche. Et j'étais frappé d'entendre ce matin les quatre premiers orateurs s'exprimer au  nom de pays dont deux au moins sont dirigés par des ingénieurs, ou plus exactement par d'éminents hommes d'Etat qui  ont commencé leur carrière comme ingénieurs. De fait, des ingénieurs sont depuis longtemps déjà présents aux côtés de  l'UNESCO. Dès 1951, l'UNESCO a suscité la création de l'Union internationale des associations et organismes  techniques (UATI), qui rassemble une trentaine d'organisations et d'associations internationales touchant aux techniques  les plus variées, afin d'avoir à sa disposition une plate-forme d'expertise multidisciplinaire.
16.5 En 1968, la Fédération mondiale des organisations d'ingénieurs (FMOI), forte de ses 80 représentations  nationales d'organisations d'ingénieurs venait renforcer ce pôle d'expertise. En 1995, l'UNESCO suscitait la création  d'une organisation faîtière, le Conseil international des sciences de l'ingénieur et de la technologie (ICET), fondée par  l'UATI et la FMOI, et destinée à rassembler tout ce qui tournait autour de l'UNESCO en matière d'ingénierie et de  technologie.
16.6 L'ICET a été admise aux relations formelles d'association avec l'UNESCO en 1996 et a signé un accord-cadre  en mars 1999. A sa dernière session, le Conseil exécutif a, le 11 octobre 2001, renouvelé les relations formelles  d'association avec l'ICET et reconduit l'accord6cadre pour la période 200262007. L'ICET est donc là pour répondre à  toute demande de caractère technique émanant de tous les secteurs de l'Organisation, comme d'ailleurs de toute  délégation qui souhaiterait faire appel à lui.
16.7 Avec le Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles, l'ICET travaille depuis plusieurs années sur des dossiers  concernant les catastrophes naturelles, l'eau et l'environnement. Avec le Secteur des sciences sociales, il travaille à la  mise sur pied d'un congrès international consacré aux mégapoles du futur. Avec le Secteur de l'éducation, l'ICET prend  part à toutes les activités touchant à la formation technique et technologique. Avec le Secteur de la culture, enfin, il  participe à des opérations purement techniques concernant la conservation du patrimoine.
16.8 Les différents comités et groupes de travail de l'ICET sont bien sûr à la disposition de tous les secteurs pour  étudier tout problème technique. Mais au-delà, l'ICET est prête à accueillir en son sein tous les organismes techniques
434  qui gravitent autour de l'UNESCO, afin de rationaliser les relations entre partenaires et d'éviter un foisonnement qui  pourrait s'avérer coûteux pour l'Organisation.
16.9 Cette disponibilité correspond à la mission que l'UNESCO a fixée à l'ICET et à l'objectif que l'ICET s'est lui- même fixé pour les prochaines années : améliorer son rôle d'organisme représentant auprès de l'UNESCO l'ensemble du  monde des ingénieurs et de la technologie. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vous remercie.
17. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much. I would now like to call our last speaker this morning for our general policy debate, the  distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan, His Excellency Mr Vilayat Guliyev. Excellency, I invite you to  take the floor.
18.1 Mr GULIYEV (Azerbaijan):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate the newly-appointed President of the General  Conference on behalf of my country and wish him, our Iranian neighbour and friend, success in conducting his work. I  would also like to express my gratitude to our former President for the excellent work accomplished.
18.2 Much has been done within the last two years to revitalize and reform the Organization to meet the challenges  of the twenty-first century. The Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, has succeeded in carrying out a number of  effective reform measures in the UNESCO Secretariat and the field offices, namely those directed towards changes in  UNESCO’s activities, regulation of its personnel and management processes, and rationalization of the Organization’s  structure and policy in decentralization. We hope that the cluster offices will successfully put into effect the decisions  adopted by the General Conference.
18.3 The draft Medium-Term Strategy for the next six years is the second pillar of the renewal of the Organization,  closely linked to the administrative and personnel reforms already under way. These reforms are very important in  enabling UNESCO to fulfil its original mission of contributing to peace and security by promoting collaboration among  the nations through education, science and culture. The Medium-Term Strategy includes two cross-cutting themes. One  of them is the “eradication of poverty, especially extreme poverty”. This today is really one of the most important  commitments. None of the action can be effective without the eradication of extreme poverty. This is why the outcomes  of UNESCO’s activities in this sphere must be forecasted.
18.4 The second theme is “the contribution of information and communication technologies to the development of  education, science and culture and the construction of a knowledge society”, which, as you know, was widely discussed  during the 13th Quadrennial and Statutory Regional Conference of the 50 National Commissions for UNESCO of the  Europe region, which was held in July 2001 in Montreal. The creation of a knowledge society is one of the major tasks  of UNESCO and National Commissions also must play an active role in this process. Equitable access to basic  information tools, systems and structures supportive of creativity and cultural diversity, the empowerment of citizens,  support for intercultural communication and understanding, inter alia, must be ensured by UNESCO. As far as the  National Commissions are concerned, they must act as information exchange centres, promote cultural and linguistic  diversity, keep both the government and the public informed about UNESCO’s activities in the field of information and  communication technology and take part in preparing national reports for international participation, among other tasks.
18.5 The subject of UNESCO’s role in the Europe region was also touched upon at the above-mentioned  Conference and the need for strategic cooperation within the framework of a New Europe was expressed. We consider  it necessary to improve and deepen cooperation between UNESCO and the Council of Europe. As we know, UNESCO  and the Council of Europe have their own fields of activities. We suggest that they should implement joint actions in  fields of common interest. Azerbaijan has been a member of the Council of Europe since last year and the cooperation I  suggest could meet the interests not only of certain countries but of UNESCO in general.
18.6 With regard to subregional cooperation I would like to point out that Azerbaijan supported the “Caucasus”  Project at the 30th session of UNESCO’s General Conference in 1999 and has carried out a number of actions in the  framework of that project. We reiterate our support for this project today and are ready to cooperate with the Russian  Federation and Georgia. The occupation of 20% of Azerbaijan’s territory by Armenia, the presence of around one  million refugees, the damage to the cultural heritage of Azerbaijan in the occupied territories and the non-recognition of  territorial integrity of Azerbaijan by our neighbour Armenia prevent us from engaging in any cooperation with that  country under the present circumstances. We consider that for the time being priority should be given to the Caucasus  projects realized at national levels as cooperation with Armenia will be possible only after a peace treaty is signed.
18.7 There are some issues to be solved in respect of the recent process of globalization. Concrete ways should be  found to solve the problems related to the effects of globalization. This process may give impetus to the creation of new  opportunities but at the same time widen the gap between the poor and the rich and, in addition, affect peoples’ cultural
435  identity. That is why not only the economic but also the humanitarian and cultural dimensions should be taken into  account in the process of globalization. This process must contribute to cultural diversity and not lead to the superiority  of a single culture. This is also one of the commitments of our Organization since, in accordance with Article 1 of the  Constitution, UNESCO supports the independence, territorial integrity and cultural diversity of its Member States.
18.8 In this connection, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that Azerbaijan, located as it is at the meeting point  of Europe and Asia, is home to a mixture of different cultures. As you may know, in 1998 in Baku, within the  framework of the TRASECA project, leaders of 12 countries signed several documents with the European Union on the  development of a Europe-Caucasus-Asia transport corridor. The implementation of the provisions of these documents  will contribute to the integration of the countries of the Caucasus into other international institutions in such fields as  transport, energy and the environment. The Azerbaijan National Commission for UNESCO considers it necessary to  create one more corridor, but this time a spiritual one, to develop cooperation in the field of science, education and  culture with the countries that have signed the Baku agreement. In this respect we would like to ask the UNESCO  Secretariat to assist us in organizing the experts’ meetings on this subject to be held in Baku under the Participation  Programme for 2002-2003.
18.9 Distinguished delegates, I wish to inform you that the Republic of Azerbaijan has submitted its candidature to  the Executive Board. Aware of the responsibility and importance of this mission, I hope for your support. Thank you for  your kind attention.
19. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Minister. You exceeded the time-limit by only five seconds. Distinguished colleagues,  ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the general policy debate of the 31st session of the General Conference.  During our debate we have had the honour of welcoming three Heads of State. We have had 14 meetings of very  fruitful debates and inspiring speeches during which 179 speakers took the floor. These speakers represented
159 Member States, of whose delegations 121 were headed by ministers. We have also had the pleasure of hearing two  observers, three intergovernmental organizations and 15 non-governmental organizations. I have tried to be present at  all of our meetings, but unfortunately my other engagements made it impossible for me to be present here for all  distinguished speakers. I apologize to them but I have read their statements. A lot of valuable points have been made. I  wanted to react to all of them but it was not possible. However, we will definitely read and try to summarize what was  said. We might get in touch with delegations concerning different possible ways of carrying out what was suggested and  to listen to their advice and recommendations. I would like to thank especially the Vice-Presidents of the General  Conference who helped me by presiding over this plenary while I was engaged in other business. I should like to inform  distinguished delegates that the Director-General will deliver his reply to the general policy debate tomorrow,  Wednesday 24 October, at 10 a.m. here. Distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant stay in  Paris for the rest of the General Conference. Thank you all very much. The meeting is adjourned.     La séance est levée à 11 h.45   The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 11.45   Заседание закрывается в 11.45  א ١١,٤٥א   会议于 11 时 45 分结束