305  Onzième séance plénière
4 octobre 2003 à 10 h 10  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  puis : M. HAMEL (Canada)  Eleventh plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues,  in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I shall briefly adjourn the meeting to ensure that the quorum is attained and  that there are enough delegates to listen to the important messages from countries making their contributions this  morning.  (The meeting is adjourned for three minutes)  (The President continues in French)
1.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai le plaisir de déclarer ouverte notre onzième séance plénière. Avant que nous  poursuivions notre débat de politique générale, je souhaiterais inviter M. Ralambomahay, président du Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs, à nous présenter le deuxième rapport du Comité. Monsieur le Président du Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs, vous avez la parole.
2.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar), président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, le Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs a tenu sa deuxième séance à midi, 3 octobre 2003, afin d’examiner une lettre que son président  avait reçue concernant la participation de la Fédération mondiale des associations, centres et clubs UNESCO (FMACU)  aux travaux de la 32e session de la Conférence générale.
2.2 Après avoir examiné cette lettre, ainsi que l’ensemble du dossier de la FMACU, organisation non  gouvernementale entretenant des relations formelles d’association avec l’UNESCO, le Comité a relevé qu’il existait un  conflit au sein de cette ONG quant à sa représentation. Le Comité a en conséquence décidé par consensus de proposer à  la Conférence générale de suspendre la participation de la FMACU aux travaux de la 32e session de la Conférence  générale dans l’attente d’un règlement du conflit. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
3. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Monsieur le Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs. Je propose que la Conférence générale  prenne note du deuxième rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et accepte la proposition qui lui est faite par le  Comité. S’il n’y pas d’objection, il en est ainsi décidé. Merci à tous.  DÉBAT DE POLITIQUE GÉNÉRALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL (continuación)  ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ВНЕШНЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ (продолжение)  א  )(א 总政策辩论续（续）
4.1 The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegations, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues,  we will now proceed with the general policy debate. I am pleased to see that some heads of delegation have actually  started a competition to set the record for the shortest speech. We will see if this morning’s meeting will allow us to  open the contest to more candidates. I am in contact with my country to see what kind of present will be awarded to the  winner.
4.2 Furthermore, let me inform you that as of today several representatives of inter-governmental and non- governmental organizations will address our assembly and that, as agreed in our organization of the work of the session  – document 32 C/2 – the speaking time limit allowed to those organizations will be four minutes. The same musical rule  obviously applies to them.
4.3 I should now like to give the floor to the first speaker at this meeting, the honourable Minister of Education  of Niue, His Excellency Mr Toke Talagi.
5.1 Mr TALAGI (Niue):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies and distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Koe Atua ne takitaki mai a tautolu oti ati maeke ai ke  kau fakalataha he fonoaga lilifu nei. I extend to you all warm greetings from our Premier, the honourable Young  Vivian, and from the Government and people of Niue.
5.2 Mr President, Niue believes very firmly in diversity and nationhood and in the rights of nations to express  their nationhood peacefully. That is why we applaud the decision of the United States Government to rejoin UNESCO.   It is appropriate that the world’s strongest economy should be part of this universal family. We also warmly welcome  Timor-Leste as a new member of this family. Niue believes that universality is one of the most fundamental principles  of UNESCO since it allows all nations to come to the General Conference and reaffirm such principles. However, Niue  also notes with concern that some countries are using this Conference to rally support for their individual causes. We  also believe in the rightness and justice of these causes. But although Niue is pleased indeed that this forum does offer  such an opportunity for any nation and has listened without prejudice, we are saddened by the apparent lack of desire  for peace and goodwill. Mr President, peace will come because peace must come in time, for quite logically, peace and  security are essential to social and economic development, including education.
5.3 Mr President, we support the concept of decentralization and rationalization advocated by the Director- General. Niue recognizes that this will offer opportunities for better delivery of services to the countries and peoples  that UNESCO serves. However, the concept will remain a mere concept unless actual delivery is improved. The  strengthening of the Apia Office is a prerequisite for that purpose. Rationalization is a laudable and workable concept,  but will be understood only if the people of my country are effectively included in this concept.
5.4 Mr President, we warmly welcome the Director-General’s plan to visit the Pacific region. He will be able not  only to see where the day begins, but also where it ends, because the sun rises and the dawn of a new day not only starts  there but also ends in that vastness. Niue is a large ocean country and this vastness makes us realize our responsibilities  to sustainable development. We are therefore pleased indeed to commend the draft resolution on the sustainable  development of small island developing States and the review of the Barbados Programme of Action (Barbados+10).
5.5 Mr President, the Pacific nations prepared for this General Conference at a consultation meeting held in Fiji  earlier this year. At that meeting, we identified, among other things, certain flaws in representation which seriously  undermine our true place in the UNESCO family. We hope that this assembly will put the matter right and support the  appropriate representation of our region in UNESCO.
5.6 Mr President, Niue’s biggest challenge is the threat that depopulation poses to its very existence as a nation.  We recognize that we are unique in this respect in the UNESCO family.
5.7 Niue joins other nations that have placed emphasis on education as a basic right for all people. In conclusion,  Mr President, let me wish you well in your stewardship of the General Conference. We live in challenging times and  our place in history will be determined by the good deeds we agree to perform for the benefit of our family of nations.  Ki a Fakamonuina mai he Atua a tautolu oti.
6. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister. You have set the record by speaking for only three minutes. It is  quite possible that this record will be broken again. Congratulations on the work your country is doing. It is now my  pleasure to introduce and to invite to the rostrum the honourable Minister of Education, Science, Technology and  Scientific Research of Rwanda, His Excellency Mr Romain Murenzi.
7.1 Mr MURENZI (Rwanda):  Your Excellency Mr President of the General Conference, Your Excellency Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, honourable Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen,  allow me to congratulate you, Mr President, on behalf of my country’s delegation, on your election to the presidency of  UNESCO’s General Conference at its 32nd session. The trust placed in you by this assembly speaks volumes about  your abilities and the people’s confidence in you. We thank you for accepting this noble undertaking and wish you  every success. We would also like to express our heartfelt thanks to the outgoing President of the General Conference,  Mr Ahmad Jalali, the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Ms Aziza Bennani, the Director-General of UNESCO,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, all Members of the Executive Board and the entire UNESCO Secretariat for the dedication and  competence with which they have served our Organization during the last two years.
7.2 The Government of Rwanda is committed to bringing about the socio-economic transformation of Rwanda’s  population, given its high level of poverty, with 62% of the population living under the poverty line, and given  Rwanda’s pre-genocide history, which was characterized by poor policies and poor governance, leading to  unprecedented social evils which culminated in the 1994 genocide. Nine years after this dark period of our history,  Rwanda has recovered remarkably from its wound, and security and peace reign throughout the country. The  government of national unity was able to implement a good policy of national reconciliation and democratization,  culminating in the adoption of a new Constitution covering the organization of presidential and legislative elections.
7.3 Rwanda is ready to join forces with the international community to make this planet a pleasant one to live in,  through its commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and other regional and international  conventions. Mr President, we all know that education is the key which unlocks the door to development. It is also said  that a country is the reflection of its education system. This is why Rwanda has invested so much in rebuilding its  education system at all levels over the last nine years. Rwanda’s recently revised and adopted education sector policy  aims to contribute to poverty reduction and to guide the implementation of the MDGs. The policy clearly spells out  issues of increasing access, equity, quality and relevance. Science and technology, especially information and  communication technologies (ICTs), are at the heart of this policy. Another important commitment in this policy is free  universal primary education, as has just been declared by our government this week.
7.4 Mr President, Rwanda has registered substantial progress in all areas of UNESCO’s mandate. Enrolment has  been increasing at all levels. In primary schools, for example, net enrolment stands at 82% and gross enrolment at 110%,  with gross enrolment being higher than that of any low-income country. In secondary schools the number of students  has increased fourfold, with roughly an equal number of boys and girls in primary and secondary schools. In higher  education the number of students has increased sevenfold. Our national Education for All plan was finalized after broad  consultation with all our partners, including UNESCO. In November 2002 the 12th Pharmacopoeia Colloquium was  held in Kigali, as was the meeting of the African and Malagasy Council on Higher Education (CAMES), in April 2003.
7.5 Mr President, despite the achievements, we still have a long way to go. The high level of poverty (62% of the  population living under the poverty line) coupled with a high rate of illiteracy (approximately 50%) poses a great  challenge to the goals and objectives set. A poor teaching/learning environment has led to a high level of inefficiency in  our education system, characterized by high wastage, such as the 15% drop-out rate and 16% repetition rate at primary  level. Lack of equipment for practical lessons is a big problem at all levels and presents a major obstacle to providing  the necessary skills for poverty reduction. To address this problem, the Government of Rwanda has adopted appropriate  strategies in its education sector policy and five-year education-sector strategic plan, which were developed in  conjunction with all our partners through a sector-wide approach.
7.6 Mr President, Rwanda’s national political direction is defined by the “Vision 2020” Programme and the  integrated ICT-led socio-economic development policy and plan for Rwanda. A principal objective of both papers is to  build a knowledge-based economy founded on the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) and the  applications of science. This requires capacity-building in science, technology/ICT and research at different levels  through, inter alia, training. In this regard Rwanda is promoting use of ICTs in education through different projects and  programmes such as the programme of the Rwanda alliance for primary school computerization which aims to provide  computers and Internet access for all 2,200 primary schools. This alliance comprises USAID, World Links, the  Government of Rwanda, and a number of private companies. Other in-classroom projects aim to provide computers and  Internet access for all 400 secondary schools in Rwanda. Distance education and computer science courses have also  been set up in partnership with the African Virtual University. Finally, Rwanda has joined the Development Gateway  Foundation as a founding member, the mission of which is to reduce poverty and support sustainable development  through the use of information and communication technologies.
7.7 Mr President, in the area of culture, Rwanda supports the idea of a UNESCO convention on cultural diversity  and on the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage. There will be time enough to discuss these issues during the  meetings of the commission on culture. In this regard our country would like to request UNESCO’s support in two key  areas: conservation of remains, such as bones, of people who were killed in the 1994 genocide, and the drawing up of  an inventory of physical cultural heritage.
7.8 Mr President, allow me to express our gratitude to UNESCO, with which Rwanda has a very good  relationship. We highly appreciate the visit to our country by the Director-General in December 2002. We appreciate  UNESCO’s support to our country, particularly in the areas of education, culture and information, and through the  Participation Programme. It is our hope that this programme will be reinforced, especially in the area of training in  human resources. As regards the reinforcement of our National Commission, I am pleased to be able to inform you that  the Cabinet has adopted Presidential Order No. 12/01 of 27 March 2003 on the restructuring and reorganization of the  Rwanda National Commission for UNESCO.
7.9 Lastly, Rwanda appreciates the fact that document 32 C/5 incorporates, in all its main programmes, specific  action in favour of sustainable development and poverty reduction, while supporting the NEPAD initiative.  Mr President, let me take this opportunity to thank all our partners, local and international, especially UNESCO, for  their contribution to the rebuilding of our education system over the last nine years. I would also like to request further  support, however, because we are convinced that education can make a real contribution to poverty reduction and the  promotion of our people’s social development. Mr President, I wish to thank you for this opportunity to speak up for  our country’s education system. Thank you.
(9.1) Mr BABEKER NAHAR (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Blessings and Peace be upon the Faithful Messenger of  God. Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, ministers and heads of  delegation, distinguished delegates, Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you. I should like to begin by  conveying to you the greetings of the people and Government of Sudan and to transmit them through you to all peoples  who care about charity, justice and peace. I take this opportunity to congratulate the President of the Conference on his  election in this exalted location and wish him good luck in the performance of his high functions. I also welcome the  return to UNESCO of the United States of America, which will undoubtedly help to improve the performance of the  Organization and intensify its efforts to achieve the aims pursued. We also welcome the admission of Timor-Leste to the  Organization.
(9.2) Mr President, the culture of peace is certainly one of the fundamentals of this worthy organization and giving  practical expression to it is the concern of all the Members. For the disputes that erupt in every corner of the world  between and within countries lead to the abandonment of fundamental human rights, the squandering of opportunities and  the intensification of the effects of poverty and backwardness. Sudan suffered continuously from an internal conflict for  nearly half a century whose destructive impact affected all areas of life. Yet the people of Sudan retained their faith in the  culture of peace and their commitment to nation-building and progress. The Sudanese actually took the path that leads to
311  peace instead of the path to struggle and internecine strife. And here is our country today, looking at the prospect of a  lasting peace agreement to which the finishing touches are now being put. The population will then apply themselves to  development and construction in a nation which abounds in natural resources such as are seldom found within the  confines of one State. We thank all of the States which have contributed to the establishment of peace in Sudan,  especially the States Members of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the United States of  America, and the States Members of IGAD from the Arab States and the African Union. In this connection we appeal to  UNESCO and its Member States to support Sudan in its efforts aimed at reconstruction and the repatriation of refugees  and displaced persons, enabling them to acquire the skills and experience they need to rejoin society and contribute to  nation-building, that is to say, to building a State of peace in post-war Sudan. If we have referred to the situation in Sudan,  it is because we are appealing to our Organization to help combat the social impact of the armed conflicts with a view to  reducing the level of poverty. With its water, agricultural and oil resources, Sudan can make its own contribution here if  it has the support and assistance of the international community.
(9.3) Mr President, we support UNESCO’s focus on the six major EFA goals. We have renewed through our  national plan our country’s commitment  to the development targets in the field of education and the goals of the Dakar  Forum. We note that, at a time when the world is endeavouring to eradicate technical illiteracy, the levels of illiteracy in  terms of reading and writing remain high in the least developed countries and are especially acute in countries suffering  the afflictions of war and natural disasters. We want these States to have the benefit of an initiative like the E-9 initiative  for the nine high-population countries for the purpose of eradicating illiteracy.
(9.4) Mr President, the next subject of concern after the eradication of illiteracy and the provision of basic  education for all sections of society is higher education which is considered as the necessary framework for the  development process. The world must accord equal importance to higher education. Commending, as we do, UNESCO’s  attention to capacity-building in the natural and engineering sciences and in information and communication technology,  we call for the launching of an international initiative in support of higher education in the least developed countries.
(9.5) Mr President, I cannot omit from this statement an expression of our appreciation for UNESCO’s role in  advancing the status of women and its concern for women’s issues, especially in the field of education. We in Sudan are  most interested in this matter and are endeavouring to ensure genuine participation by women in various aspects of life.  This can be seen from the fact that women in Sudan occupy leading positions in political, economic and cultural life. We  are continuing our efforts for women’s education which find reflection in increased levels of enrolment in educational  institutions, including universities and tertiary institutions, which have begun to provide society with qualified female  staff who are contributing to the peace process and development inside the country.
(9.6) At this point, Mr President, I should like to refer to an area where education can play a big part, that is the  fight against fatal diseases such as AIDS. By raising their awareness of health issues and promoting proper values among  our young people in educational institutions, we can protect them from this dangerous illness.
(9.7) Mr President, if I may take you back to the address delivered to us by the President of Italy during the  opening meeting of this session, in which he spoke of cultural diversity. He said that beyond diversity there is the  possibility of consensus. I would remind you of my own land which is considered as an example of a country  characterized by cultural diversity and I wish to reaffirm our strong support for UNESCO’s efforts to protect cultural  diversity by protecting and preserving world heritage. We therefore confirm our backing for the Director-General’s call  to boost the Organization’s role in Iraq and the Palestinian territories.
(9.8) We should also like to express our gratitude and appreciation to UNESCO, and in particular, to the World  Heritage Committee which approved the inclusion of the antiquities of Gebel Barkal and its surrounding area in Sudan on  the World Heritage List. It is the first site in Sudan to attract such concern and we hope to obtain the listing of more of  the archaeological sites which abound in the country.
(9.9) Mr President, we in Sudan are determined to join forces with our organization, UNESCO, to work with all  those who love peace and charity in order to practise the principles of solidarity, tolerance and peaceful coexistence and  to apply democratic values and respect for human rights in real life. We call for the continuation of works of reflection  and for efforts to develop UNESCO’s cultural mission which provides us with a moral umbrella for our activities and  thoughts regarding the definition of concepts and the setting of standards related to concepts of common values and  culture. We also claim priority for cultural diversity in regard to creative activity and the enrichment of international life,  thus not confining humanity within a single cultural mould, be it eastern or western, northern or southern. One model  cannot prevail in a world characterized by great diversity. The delegation of Sudan considers that the reinforcement of the  role of culture, the correction of its path and the channelling of its direct impact on various areas of life, especially in  education, science and communication, is an important tool for addressing the main problems affecting our world such as  terrorism, violence, racism, the new colonialism, deprivation of rights, the distortion of diversity, and the evacuation of  the content of pluralism on the pretext of globalization and the common interest. The issue is one that requires  determination and we can all do it if we so wish. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you.
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much indeed, honourable Minister. I wish to commend you on the work you are doing for  your country.
312  (The President continues in French)
10.2 Je donne maintenant la parole au Ministre de l’enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle de  Guinée, S. E. M. Ibrahima Soumah.
11.1 M. SOUMAH (Guinée) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand  honneur et un immense plaisir de prendre la parole devant cette auguste assemblée au nom de la délégation de la  République de Guinée, ainsi qu’en mon nom propre, pour vous féliciter Monsieur le Président, pour votre brillante  élection, à la Présidence de la 32e session de cette Conférence. Je tiens aussi à adresser nos vives félicitations et nos  hommages déférents à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, ainsi qu’à M. Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général de  l’UNESCO, pour son esprit de partage et son inlassable combat à la tête de notre Organisation, et aussi pour l’attention  toute particulière qu’il porte à l’Afrique. Je tiens à saluer de tout cœur ici les dignes représentants du nouvel État  membre, le Timor-Leste, ainsi que ceux des États-Unis d’Amérique, dont le retour tant souhaité au sein de la grande  famille de l’UNESCO est devenu réalité, et va dynamiser et consolider l’universalité de notre prestigieuse institution. Je  voudrais également saisir cette précieuse occasion, devant cet aréopage distingué, pour vous apporter le message  d’amitié, de solidarité et de paix du peuple de Guinée, de son gouvernement, et tout particulièrement de son Président, S.  E. le général Lansana Conté.
11.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la République de Guinée approuve dans son ensemble le  Projet de programme et de budget de l’UNESCO pour 2004-2005. Les activités envisagées sont selon nous de nature à  promouvoir l’éducation pour tous, l’utilisation élargie des technologies de l’information et de la communication, un  accès croissant aux extraordinaires possibilités offertes par les sciences et la technologie et la prise en compte dans nos  réflexions de la nécessité de préserver l’environnement, le patrimoine matériel et immatériel et la diversité culturelle.
11.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Afrique en général et l’Ouest africain, en particulier, vivent  depuis plus d’une décennie des situations d’instabilité provoquées par des conflits internes destructeurs qui ont semé la  violence, la terreur et la désolation. Ces conflits et guerres fratricides ont entraîné un exode massif de populations  civiles composées principalement de femmes, d’enfants et de personnes âgées. En témoigne avec éloquence ce constat  amer : 10 % des huit millions de Guinéens sont des réfugiés ou des personnes déplacées. Face à cette triste réalité, nous  lançons un appel pressant à l’UNESCO afin qu’elle appuie les pays africains dans la recherche de solutions propres à  prévenir de nouveaux conflits. Une telle recherche demeure en effet un premier pas important vers l’instauration de  conditions propices à la stabilité, au respect du droit et à la bonne gouvernance.
11.4 En ce qui concerne les relations interculturelles et la communication, nous saluons les efforts d’appropriation  des retombées bénéfiques du progrès scientifique et technologique grâce auxquelles nous pouvons aujourd’hui réduire à  notre guise le monde aux dimensions d’un village.
11.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi de souligner enfin, que la République de  Guinée, à l’instar des autres pays d’Afrique et du reste du monde, participe à la promotion des idéaux de l’UNESCO et  du système des Nations Unies tout entier à travers 30 écoles associées, 40 clubs UNESCO, quatre réserves de biosphère,  deux chaires UNESCO, un site naturel inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial et un chef-d’œuvre du patrimoine  immatériel de l’humanité. Elle le fait aussi à travers l’apport intellectuel et culturel des cadres guinéens qui prennent  une part active à la mise en œuvre des plans d’action relevant des domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO. Voilà qui,  assurément, ajoute à la visibilité des activités de l’UNESCO en Guinée. C’est donc le lieu et le moment de saluer  chaleureusement la coopération de l’UNESCO avec mon pays, la République de Guinée, coopération qui constitue à  nos yeux un symbole vivant de la mise en œuvre de projets d’envergure et d’activités novatrices.
11.6 Dans ce même ordre d’idées, les efforts consentis en matière d’éducation pour tous, et qui connaissent un  début d’exécution dans le cadre de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’alphabétisation 2003-2012, méritent eux aussi  d’être salués et soutenus.
11.7 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, la République de Guinée réaffirme son attachement sans  faille aux efforts déployés par la communauté internationale sous la houlette de l’UNESCO en vue d’instaurer une  éducation de qualité dans la perspective de la généralisation de l’enseignement scolaire.
11.8 Monsieur le Président, je crois avoir mérité le cadeau promis, mais je suis prêt à y renoncer en faveur de  délégations venues d’un autre continent que l’Afrique. En revanche, je voudrais vous demander de considérer avec  indulgence une autre proposition de nature à rendre moins austère nos réunions. En effet, vous avez décidé au début de  ce débat de nous faire entendre  diverses musiques du monde, et votre prédécesseur nous a bercés d’une mélodie
313  envoûtante de son pays. Dans ce même esprit, je vous propose, Monsieur le Président, d’inviter les délégués à danser  sur une musique guinéenne à la fin de la séance. Les interprètes pourraient se joindre à nous le temps de cette danse. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
12. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre de l’enseignement technique et de la formation  professionnelle. Je retiens votre proposition de danser tous ensemble à la fin de cette séance. Je donne maintenant la  parole au Ministre de l’éducation du Tchad, S. E. M. Yokabdjim Mandigui.
13.1 M. MANDIGUI (Tchad) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les Ministres et Chefs de délégations, Honorables délégués, Mesdames,  Messieurs, c’est pour moi un grand honneur et un immense plaisir que de prendre la parole devant cette auguste  assemblée. Aussi permettez-moi de présenter, au nom du Gouvernement de la République du Tchad et de la délégation  qui m’accompagne, toutes mes félicitations à Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Abiola Omolewa pour sa brillante élection à  cette session aux hautes fonctions de Président de la Conférence générale. Je voudrais également féliciter le Directeur  général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, le Conseil exécutif, ainsi que le secrétariat de la Conférence pour la qualité fort  appréciable de la préparation de ces assises. Le Tchad, à l’unisson des autres États membres, se réjouit du retour des  États-Unis d’Amérique dans notre Organisation après plusieurs années d’absence. En reprenant leur place au sein de  cette grande famille de l’UNESCO, les États-Unis d’Amérique ont pris une décision historique qui, sans nul doute,  contribuera de façon significative au renforcement de l’action de l’UNESCO. De même, le Tchad salue l’entrée du  Timor-Leste dans la grande famille de l’UNESCO.
13.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, la 32e session de la Conférence générale se tient dans un  contexte international fortement marqué par la mondialisation. Or, celle-ci, bien que porteuse de beaucoup d’espoirs à  certains égards, génère des effets pervers qui, si l’on n’y prend garde, risquent d’hypothéquer lourdement et  durablement les chances de développement des pays économiquement peu développés. Je pense en particulier à la rude  concurrence à laquelle se heurtent les matières premières et autres produits d’exportation des pays les moins avancés.  Le contexte international est également marqué par les conflits armés, le terrorisme et des actes de violence de toutes  sortes qui frappent indistinctement des milliers de familles et des populations civiles innocentes. Il y a lieu de se  féliciter des efforts inlassables déployés par l’Organisation des Nations Unies, l’Union africaine et d’autres  organisations régionales en vue d’instaurer une paix juste et durable, indispensable à la coexistence pacifique entre les  nations et à leur développement socioéconomique. A cet égard, le Tchad se félicite de la part que prend l’UNESCO à la  mise en œuvre du Nouveau partenariat pour le développement de l’Afrique (NEPAD). L’UNESCO a en effet été la  première institution spécialisée des Nations Unies à soutenir ce nouveau cadre d’action dès son adoption par les Chefs  d’États africains a Abuja en octobre 2001. Cette position a été réaffirmée au cours du séminaire « L’UNESCO et le  NEPAD : de la vision à l’action » tenu à Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) en mars 2003.
13.3 Monsieur le Président, le Tchad, avec l’appui de ses partenaires pour le développement, a élaboré une  politique nationale de réduction de la pauvreté. Celle-ci s’appuie sur la bonne gouvernance et prend en compte les  secteurs prioritaires que sont l’éducation, la santé, le développement rural, l’environnement et l’eau et les infrastructures.  Pour mettre en œuvre cette politique, le Gouvernement du Tchad met un accent particulier sur la valorisation des  ressources humaines à travers l’éducation, considérée comme l’une des priorités du  pays. Mon pays a déployé  d’importants efforts durant la décennie écoulée dans ce sens, ce qui s’est traduit par une augmentation constante du taux  brut de scolarisation, passé de 46,1 % en 1993 à 75,1 % en 2001, avec un saut de 30,2 % à 58,7 % pour les filles. Ces  efforts seront non seulement poursuivis, mais amplifiés. En effet, outre une augmentation annuelle de 20 % du budget  alloué par l’État à l’éducation et des allocations complémentaires dans le cadre de l’Initiative PPTE, le système éducatif  recevra avec les autres secteurs déclarés prioritaires 80 % des revenus directs escomptés du pétrole.
13.4 À l’instar des autres États membres, le Tchad a élaboré son Plan d’action national pour l’Education pour tous  avec l’appui de l’Agence intergouvernementale de la Francophonie (AIF), des parrains et principalement de l’UNESCO.  Ce Plan, présenté à la 8e Conférence des ministres de l’éducation des États membres d’Afrique, en décembre 2002 à  Dar-es Salaam est en voie de finalisation et sera dans les prochaines semaines soumis à nos partenaires. L’une des  insuffisances de notre système éducatif, caractérisée par un faible rendement interne, demeure la qualité. Or la qualité  de l’éducation a toujours été une priorité pour l’UNESCO. Il est reconnu, en effet, que le contenu et les conditions  d’apprentissage sont aussi importants que l’accès à l’éducation. Ainsi, l’éducation doit aller au-délà de la trilogie «  lecture, écriture, calcul » et s’inscrire dans la vision globale définie à la Conférence mondiale sur l’Education pour tous  et réaffirmée au Forum mondial de Dakar sur l’EPT. Cette éducation de qualité est recherchée à travers la Stratégie  d’éducation et de formation, plus particulièrement par le biais du Programme d’appui à la réforme du secteur de  l’éducation au Tchad (PARSET) qui a abouti à la mise en place d’une part, du Centre national des curricula, qui a pour  objectif la refondation des curricula et des programmes pour les mettre en conformité avec les réalités nationales et les
314  objectifs du développement du Tchad et d’autre part de l’Agence pour la promotion des initiatives communautaires en  éducation destinée à soutenir la gestion des écoles communautaires par l’octroi de subventions aux associations de  parents d’élèves. A ce propos, permettez-moi de renouveler ici nos remerciements à tous les partenaires en matière de  développement pour leur appui constant à la formulation et à la mise en œuvre de ce programme.
13.5 En ce qui concerne l’enseignement technique et professionnel, le Gouvernement du Tchad est en train de  mettre en œuvre une ambitieuse politique de renforcement et de création de centres d’apprentissage et de formation  professionnelle ainsi que d’instituts universitaires professionnalisés, répartis sur l’ensemble du territoire. Par ailleurs,  dans le cadre de la « Décennie internationale pour une culture de la paix et de la non-violence au profit des enfants du  monde », des dispositions sont à l’étude pour intégrer l’éducation à la culture de la paix et à la non-violence dans les  programmes scolaires et dans les actions du Centre national des curricula. Je voudrais également signaler que mon pays  a souscrit à la mise en place du « Programme de renforcement des capacités des organisations non gouvernementales et  de la société civile actives en éducation ». Comme vous le savez, ces organisations sont des partenaires incontournables  et privilégiés dans toutes les actions de développement.
13.6 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais au nom de mon gouvernement apporter notre appui à la Stratégie à moyen  terme 2002-2007 ainsi qu’au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005, particulièrement à ses points relatifs à  la lutte contre la pauvreté par le développement de l’éducation, au combat contre la pandémie du VIH/sida, à la  recherche d’un développement durable tel que défini au Sommet mondial de Johannesburg, à la mise en œuvre de la  déclaration sur la diversité culturelle et à la promotion des technologies de l’information et de la communication. Le  Gouvernement du Tchad apprécie hautement les réformes entreprises par le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, réformes  qui s’imposaient et dont les résultats sont déjà palpables. La Tchad l’assure de tout son soutien pour les efforts  inlassables qu’il déploie en faveur de la paix et du développement. Je souhaite plein succès aux travaux des présentes  assises dont les résultats contribueront certainement au renforcement de notre Organisation. Je vous remercie.
14.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je vous remercie, Excellence, pour votre message et je vous félicite pour votre travail inlassable au service de  votre pays.   (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
14.2 Ladies and gentlemen, it is now my pleasure to invite the honourable Minister of Education, Sports and  Cultural Affairs of Samoa, Her Excellency Ms Fiamé Naomi Mata’afa, to take the floor.
15.1 Ms MATA’AFA (Samoa):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  heads of delegations and delegates to this 32nd session of the UNESCO General Conference, first of all may I join other  speakers in offering my delegation’s congratulations to you, Mr President, on your unanimous election to the  presidency of this Conference. Secondly, I wish to thank the Executive Board through you, Madam Chairperson, for  your work of the last two years and for your recommendations, which assist greatly in expediting the work before us.
15.2 The UNESCO family continues to grow with the joining of one new Member and the return of another. In  this light I express our delight in Timor-Leste’s joining and acknowledge with satisfaction that the United States of  America’s return to UNESCO brings back an international leader to the ranks of our Organization.
15.3 Mr President, we have many external and internal frameworks that guide the work of our Organization.  Internationally we have the Millennium Development Goals, the Education for All (EFA) goals as determined in Dakar  and the Plan of Implementation adopted by the World Summit on Sustainable Development, to name a few. Internally,  our work is framed by the Medium-Term Strategy, which is delivered through the biennial budgets and programmes. At  the outset, Mr President, may I indicate my country’s support for all these frameworks in which we are working,  through national and regional activities, to achieve the set outcomes.
15.4 I wish to congratulate you, Mr Director-General, for facilitating the process to bring before this Conference  the Draft Programme and Budget, as well as draft conventions, instruments and recommendations. I look forward to our  working together in furthering the proposals for the conventions on the intangible cultural heritage and against doping  in sport and similarly for the instruments regarding cultural diversity and the recommendations to promote the use of  multilingualism and universal access to cyberspace.
15.5 Two years ago, at the 31st session of the General Conference, my country indicated our satisfaction with the  direction of the Medium-Term Strategy, and our position remains the same. The priorities set for the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2004-2005 make for sufficient coverage and flexibility to address our particular needs. We note the
315  increase in the proposed budget, which, with the return of the United States of America, we feel sure can be  accommodated.
15.6 We have had many discussions in this House on priorities and where we should utilize our resources. My  country is committed to the UNESCO priority areas of Africa, the least developed countries, the E-9 group, girls’  education and so forth. Conflict zones and the scourge of HIV/AIDS demand constant attention and support. However,  it would be remiss of this Conference if we did not address weaknesses in our governance structures and systems. More  and more governments and organizations private and public are being asked to demonstrate good governance through  transparency and accountability. We are required to be more equitable, to be more efficient and above all to offer  quality goods and services. In order for UNESCO to deliver on its mandate, and to perform effectively its roles and  functions, it must have a strong governance and systems base. There is rigour in our policy debates, but we often balk at  implementing the systems to effect organizational reforms.
15.7 We congratulate the Director-General for his continued efforts to effect decentralization. We in the Pacific  islands region are far removed from Paris, and we feel passionate about he process of decentralization and how it should  ensure our inclusion and participation in the work of UNESCO. However, we note that, in the hierarchy of  decentralized offices, there are now entities called regional bureaux. While we understand that the bureau supplies  technical support to the cluster offices of a region, we are unclear about its administrative function with regard to the  distribution of programme funds. My delegation, together with other Pacific delegations, strongly urge the Director- General and the Secretariat that programme funds earmarked for the Pacific be channelled directly to the Pacific Cluster  Office in Apia. Indeed, it would be more efficient if the Apia Cluster Office became a bureau for the Pacific to  administer all programmes and budget provisions to meet Pacific priorities.
15.8 Mr President, in July this year the Pacific held its Consultation as part of the preparations for the proposed  Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005. Our programme priorities for each of the sectors were determined and  colleagues form the Pacific delegations will be following up on those in the different commissions. The Pacific  Consultation has in the past been funded through the Participation Programme, at the request of one of our Member  States, in an amount of US $35,000. With growing membership in the region (now 17 Members) and rising travel costs,  this amount is no longer adequate. We wish to bring this fact to the Director-General’s attention and to seek an increase  in this funding to US $45,000. Furthermore, as these consultations are an integral part of the Organization’s work, we  would recommend that consideration be given to funding these meetings under the regular budget. The Pacific  Consultation also recommends that in future biennia, and in accordance with the precedent established in 2002-2003,  the Participation Programme funding for the Pacific subregion be decentralized to the UNESCO Office for the Pacific  which should take delegated responsibility for the distribution of approved funding and obtaining evaluation reports at  the conclusion of activities.
15.9 Mr President, we strongly urge the Director-General to give urgent consideration to the resourcing of the  Pacific Office, especially with regard to personnel. Vacancies still exist in adviser positions for education, social  sciences and communications and an administrative position to handle financial matters. The Pacific Office services
17 Member States, including New Zealand and Australia. This is the largest cluster group and the vacancies in these  critical posts means an extra workload for the Director and the two advisers in place, who themselves have enormous  work responsibilities.
15.10 Mr President and dear colleagues, the Pacific region is sponsoring a draft resolution for your consideration at  this Conference with regard to the Barbados Programme of Action on the Sustainable Development of Small Island  Developing States and its proposed review in 2004 in Mauritius. We seek your support for this initiative by your  adoption of this draft resolution.
15.11 Finally, I wish to record my delegation’s appreciation to the Director-General for allowing time during this  Conference to meet with the Pacific delegations. It is always satisfying to have the opportunity to discuss our concerns  directly with the Director-General and his team. We look forward to welcoming the Director-General to the Pacific  early in the new year when he visits New Zealand and Samoa, my own country and the host of the UNESCO Pacific  Office. I wish you all a successful Conference, and I thank you for your attention.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Education, Sports and Cultural Affairs of Samoa. I now invite  the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, His Excellency Mr Kakha Sikharulidze, to take the floor.
17.1 Mr SIKHARULIDZE (Georgia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, ladies and gentlemen, first of all,  I would like to thank UNESCO for the support it has provided to my country within the framework of UNESCO-
316  Georgian cooperation over the last 10 years. During this time UNESCO’s decentralization policy for the  implementation of programmes adapted to the needs of Member States has been introduced and the role of National  Commissions for UNESCO has become more effective. As a Member of UNESCO’s Executive Board, Georgia  supports the strategic priorities that have been developed to help Member States to achieve the Millennium  Development Goals.
17.2 We welcome the return of the United States of America to the Organization and hope that its active  cooperation in UNESCO’s projects will be beneficial to all countries.
17.3 Georgia has implemented many projects within the framework of UNESCO’s Participation Programme. It  welcomes the efforts reflected in the Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft Programme and Budget. In particular it  supports the efforts to safeguard the intangible heritage and thanks UNESCO for developing a framework for the  preservation of the famous Georgian polyphonic singing. Let me use this opportunity to express our gratitude to the  Government of Japan for financing the International Centre for Georgian Folk Song recently established in Tbilisi.
17.4 UNESCO’s role in facilitating cross-border cooperation in the South Caucasus gathered new momentum  after the launching of the subregional “Caucasus” programme in keeping with the Peaceful Caucasus Initiative, set in  motion by the President of Georgia, His Excellency Mr Edward Shevardnadze in 1996. The implementation of this  programme started immediately after its endorsement at the 30th session of the UNESCO General Conference and  received a substantial boost after the visit to Georgia of Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General. The “Caucasus”  programme provides a framework for a series of specialized subregional activities. An excellent example is the  Interregional Round Table “Dialogue among Civilizations: Caucasus” held in June 2003 in Vilnius, Lithuania. The  amendment to the Draft Programme and Budget submitted by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia and  Lithuania is based on the main lines of action for implementation of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural  Diversity and on recommendations approved by the participants. The subregion’s “Caucasus” project will stimulate  international cooperation first of all in areas least likely to be a source of disagreement and conflict. Hence the vital  importance of the Caucasus programme for our region, where areas of so-called “hot peace” still exist.
17.5 Georgia has been a dynamic participant in the activities of UNESCO’s World Heritage Centre. The inclusion  of three Georgian monuments in the World Heritage List  is an issue of great importance for us. The masterpieces of  Georgian architecture were waiting for the moment when world attention would be focused on them. Thanks to  UNESCO a master plan for the rehabilitation of the ancient capital of Georgia, Mtskheta, a World Heritage site, has  been developed. The 1,000th anniversary of another World Heritage site, Bagrati Cathedral, was also recently  celebrated under UNESCO’s patronage. Georgia has presented its candidature for membership of the World Heritage  Committee and would greatly appreciate the support of Member States.
17.6 Ladies and gentlemen, there exists another important set of operational activities performed by UNESCO in  the field of cultural heritage. Last year UNESCO was prompt in providing emergency assistance in the wake of the  earthquake that struck the historic district of Tbilisi. Also thanks to UNESCO, the monitoring of cultural heritage  monuments located in the territory of Abkhazia, Georgia, was organized in 1997. We propose that consideration be  given to a second mission with the participation of Georgian experts in 2004.
17.7 Georgia’s active involvement in the World Solar Programme resulted in the inclusion of five Georgian high- priority national projects. We highly appreciate UNESCO’s coordination of inter-agency work on education for all and  count on its support in implementing the Dakar goals in Georgia. The creation of Associated Schools in Georgia started  soon after Georgia became a Member State of UNESCO. Georgia supports the subregional strategy for development of  the Associated Schools Project and international pilot projects. In the field of higher education, Georgia has been  closely involved in the UNESCO Chairs Programme and has seven UNESCO Chairs in the country.
17.8 Ladies and gentlemen, from ancient times Georgia has occupied a prominent place in oriental and western  historiography, mythology and literary works. At the end of next year, Georgia will be celebrating the
3,000th anniversary of Georgian statehood and the 2,000th anniversary of the arrival of Christianity. We should like to  request UNESCO to celebrate this important event in 2005. The support of UNESCO would greatly facilitate Georgia’s  commitment to promoting the ethical and moral values of humanity.
17.9 Honourable delegates, we would like to end by expressing our gratitude to UNESCO for its effective role in  promoting intellectual collaboration among nations. It would be hard to imagine the world of today without UNESCO.  Thank you.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia, and congratulations on the  excellent work you are doing for your country. I now invite the honourable Minister of Education and Culture of  Cyprus, His Excellency Mr Pefkios Georgiades, to come to the rostrum.
19.1 Mr GEORGIADES (Cyprus):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, we congratulate Professor Omolewa on his election to the presidency of our General  Conference. We are confident that under his wise guidance this 32nd session will be successful. We also express our  appreciation to the Director-General for continuing effectively the reform process he has undertaken.
19.2 We welcome Timor-Leste. We are happy with the return of the United States of America and feel it is an  auspicious step towards the universality of our Organization.
19.3 This year my country is about to fulfil its most ambitious aspiration, joining the European Union. Hence,  Cyprus’s views are echoed in the statement of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, and we fully subscribe to  its contents.
19.4 Mr President, this year the United Nations has undergone one of the most critical periods in its history. In the  aftermath of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with instability reigning in the Middle East, faced with the threats of  terrorism, of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, of a deteriorating environment and of various types of  epidemics, we must find the means and the solutions to transform these scourges into opportunities. We are called upon  by our citizens to prove that we can deal effectively, in multilateral settings, with threats to our peace and security.  UNESCO, an integral part of the United Nations system, is well placed to turn today’s instability into tomorrow’s  opportunities. What is needed today more than ever before is a common vision based on shared values, principles and  respect for human life and dignity.
19.5 Mr President, my country implements this vision with hope and determination. Cyprus still suffers the  adverse consequences of the military invasion of 1974, which have been devastating in the political and socio-economic  spheres, including education. The Government of Cyprus has consistently showed its goodwill and cooperated in all  efforts to reach a peaceful solution of the Cyprus problem. A final settlement will remove an anachronism created by  the division and occupation and will, in turn, allow the country to play its full role both in our immediate  neighbourhood as well as on the wider European continent. On 1 May 2004, Cyprus will be a full member of the  European Union. The accession to the European Union has created among all Cypriots the common desire for building  a reunited country where Greek and Turkish Cypriots, Armenians, Maronites and Latins can live together in peace,  security and prosperity. In the context of this common vision and in accordance with the declared policy of the  government, the Ministry of Education and Culture has announced a number of measures in the areas of education and  culture in favour of our Turkish Cypriot compatriots. These aim at facilitating and encouraging Turkish Cypriot  students to participate in education and research programmes as well as in other European Union programmes.
19.6 Mr President, with respect to the general policy of UNESCO, I would like to underline that my government’s  objectives are inspired by, and are in line with, those of the Organization. In keeping with the social dimension of  education, we are strongly committed to the education for all (EFA) and the lifelong learning initiatives. Having  achieved a 100% literacy rate in primary and secondary education and with almost 60% of high school graduates  pursuing tertiary education both in Cyprus and abroad, we have embarked on an ambitious project of improving all  aspects of the quality of education and lifelong education.
19.7 Cultural diversity is a key element of sustainable development. My country has the ambition to play its full  role in the region. Cyprus has both the will and the moral obligation to contribute towards a peaceful and stable region,  where all its people can enjoy a future better than their past. At the crossroads of three continents, Europe, Asia and  Africa, my country has an increased awareness of, and sensitivity to, the need for the harmonious coexistence of  different civilizations as well as a sustainable intercultural dialogue.
19.8 Respect for the cultural heritage is an integral part of the dialogue among civilizations and cultures. Cyprus is  a relevant case where the absence of this dialogue threatens cultural heritage with destruction and plunder. My  government has, since 1974, embarked on a sustained effort to protect and preserve this heritage in the part of Cyprus  occupied by Turkey, not from the passage of time and the elements of nature, but from looting and pillage. Sites and  monuments of historical and religious significance have either been destroyed or their manifest function has been  altered. Movable artefacts, mosaics and icons have been sold at international auctions and on illicit markets, while  illegal archaeological excavations continue to this day, in violation of scholarly ethics and the UNESCO New Delhi  Recommendation of 1956.
19.9 Mr President, regarding bioethics and biotechnology, I would like to underline that new legislation has been  enacted and administrative structures have been set up enabling us to better understand and meet the challenges created  by developments in science and technology.
19.10 Our era of globalization is also marked by unprecedented progress in information and communication  technology (ICT). While acknowledging and promoting such innovations, we must strike the right balance between the  availability of knowledge and the respect and protection of human values and principles. ICT development should be  examined within the wider social context. For these reasons, we have recently enacted appropriate legislation aiming at  a twofold objective: promoting the concept of knowledge societies while at the same time upholding basic human rights  and protecting human dignity.
19.11 Mr President, once more, I regret to bring to the attention of the delegations the issue of the systematic  violations of the fundamental right to education of “enclaved” children living in the areas of Cyprus occupied by  Turkey. Greek Cypriot children are still denied secondary education in occupied areas, and are forced to leave their  homes and families in order to pursue their studies in the areas controlled by the government. Very recently, we  renewed, unsuccessfully, our efforts to reopen the secondary school of the village of Rizokarpaso. I am certain,  Mr President, that you and the delegations share our view that such practices are an anachronism in the twenty-first  century because such flagrant violations of basic human rights should neither be accepted nor tolerated. Thank you.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Education and Culture of Cyprus, and I wish you well in your  work for your country. I would now like to invite to the rostrum the honourable Minister of State for Education, Youth  Affairs and Sports of Barbados, Her Excellency Ms Cynthia Forde.
21.1 Ms FORDE (Barbados):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, distinguished delegates, let me on behalf of the Barbados delegation congratulate you, Mr President, on  your election to the presidency of the General Conference. We join other delegates in offering a warm welcome to the  newest Member State, Timor-Leste, and in extending these greetings to our neighbour, the United States of America, on  its return to UNESCO.
21.2 Mr President, at this mid-point in the Organization’s current Medium-Term Strategy, the priority for us is to  take stock of the effectiveness of this Strategy, and to consider and consolidate new perspectives which reinforce the  relevance of UNESCO’s core mandate, without undermining is core competencies. The urgency for the United Nations  system to address the vision of solidarity through security for all citizens is well understood, given the current climate  of confrontation that finds credible expression in horrific acts of terrorism and subversion. Barbados, having enjoyed  over a century and a half of democratic governance, is conscious of its good fortune, and compassion towards  ameliorating in any way possible the destructive experience of others. We strongly support the Director-General in the  active engagement with the complexity and fragility of post-conflict societies and cultures, while at the same time  reinforcing three main factors which have guided the direction of the Organization.
21.3 The first is that UNESCO’s systemic function within the international system is essentially complementary to  the advancement of political and economic agreements, since these alone cannot be expected to achieve lasting peace  and cooperation among nations. The second is that UNESCO’s key role in conflict prevention (to deal first with the  critical causes rather than focusing on the devastating effects of war), in other words inculcating a “culture of peace” in  the “minds of men”, must be reinforced. And the third is that this last aspect can best be addressed in the context of  UNESCO’s responsibility for intercultural dialogue and understanding. The challenge which we must therefore  confront is the achievement of the quality of life through investment in the quality of education, particularly in terms of  the values enshrined in human rights education.
21.4 Associated with these three tenets is our concern with the peculiar requirements of small States and, more  particularly, small island developing States (SIDS). In this regard, Barbados has been pleased to note UNESCO’s  response to the goals outlined in the 1994 SIDS Conference, with the proposal for assistance to the SIDS in the  Barbados+10 meeting, and notes with particular interest the proposals under Major Programme IV for activities in  relation to World Heritage sites and island systems. Barbados actively endorses the proposals made in this regard.
21.5 Barbados also continues to support the strategies articulated in the context of the Education for All (EFA)  process, particularly as a viable mechanism to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, and has initiated plans to  expand the delivery of education at the tertiary level to further enhance human resource development in the face of  globalization and trade liberalization. The stated requirement for increased resources to address these priorities,  Mr President, brings me to the next point.
21.6 My delegation joins with others in expressing a high degree of concern about the treatment of extrabudgetary  funds, representing as they do three fifths of the overall budget, in the budgeting and financial analysis of the  Organization. Under the current regime, donor funds, which are mainly restricted in their application according to the  conditions set by the donor countries, represent what amounts to bilateral treatment of significant resources through a  multilateral institution. This has particularly affected the geographical distribution of the funds to the disadvantage of  some regions, not least the Caribbean. Barbados therefore joins with others in urging UNESCO to address without delay  the recommendations in the Joint Inspection Unit report by putting in place guidelines which afford the governing  bodies some real oversight of these important resources. In addition, their equitable distribution should be expressly  represented in the Organization’s programme and budget alongside the regular funds.
21.7 Curtailing the spread of HIV/AIDS is another urgent challenge to be met by many countries, including the  Caribbean. The promotion of preventive education, in both formal and non-formal environments, is a critical part of this  process. The Government of Barbados is firmly committed to significantly reducing the impact of this dreaded virus,  and urges that more be done to generate and support new initiatives under this programme, as it represents the real link  between education and globalization of which we must remain cognizant.
21.8 The view that culture is an impediment to development has meant that for too long it has not been given the  attention it deserves, in this or any other international organization. Happily, we have observed a growth in the  perception and appreciation of culture’s true role in underpinning development. The realization that in fact culture must  be factored into all sectors of national development, particularly with respect to the treatment of intellectual property,  the preservation of traditional heritage and cultural identity, and the management of our cultural goods and services, has  a direct impact on creativity and cultural innovations, since they too embody identity and values.
21.9 Mr President, the “development of new statistical concepts” as they relate to culture, communication, and  information and communication technologies (ICTs) requires serious analysis and application by the UNESCO Institute  for Statistics. If we are all to benefit from this growth in knowledge about ourselves and others, this is critical to  enhancing the effectiveness of knowledge creation within “a creative economy”. Barbados therefore endorses the  development of the proposed international convention on cultural diversity and other related conventions as a key  mechanism for achieving these goals.
21.10 Mr President, the Associated Schools and the Transatlantic Slave Route projects enjoy our fullest support.  However, this delegation has noted that, while the Slave Route project is mentioned in the programme, it has not been  specifically provided for in the budget. Barbados considers that the importance of this project is critical to addressing  issues such as the recovery of identity and the generation of self-worth at all levels of society, and urges UNESCO to  address this oversight. Barbados attaches key importance to the role of the Slave Route Project and its impact on  tourism and heritage preservation, and notes that we would like to see the extension of this programme at least until
2007, the bicentenary of the abolition of the slave trade, a major anniversary to be commemorated in Africa, the  Americas and Europe.
21.11 Finally, Mr President, my country fully supports UNESCO’s commitment to the social sustainability of cities.  Barbados recently celebrated the 375th anniversary of the city of Bridgetown and we intend to engage actively with the  goals of the World Heritage Convention, through this our first proposed nomination to this list. Thank you for your  attention.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister. I would now like to invite the honourable Minister of Culture of  Tajikistan, His Excellency Mr Karamatullo Olimov, to the rostrum.
(23.1) Mr OLIMOV (Tajikistan) (translation from the Russian):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen,  allow me first of all to congratulate you, Your Excellency Michael Abiola Omolewa, on your election to the  distinguished position of President of the General Conference of UNESCO and wish you success in this responsible post.  We welcome the return to UNESCO of the United States of America, one of the founders of this prestigious Organization.  We also welcome and wish every success to the delegation of Timor-Leste, which has become a Member State of  UNESCO.
(23.2) We are also wholly satisfied with the efforts made to reconstruct Afghanistan, with which Tajikistan has  much in common, in particular in regard to language, culture and history.
(23.3) Mr President, I should like to confirm the approval and support of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan,  His Excellency Emomali Rahmonov, for the crucial reforms carried out by the Director-General of UNESCO, Koïchiro  Matsuura. His trip to Tajikistan last year was proof of his attention and of UNESCO’s attitude to the country’s problems.  I can safely say that after the Director-General’s visit to Tajikistan and the discussion of issues covering a broad range of  UNESCO activities, the work of the National Commission was significantly revitalized and measures were taken which  were received favourably in my country, thereby underscoring the need to strengthen UNESCO’s position through the  combined efforts of all countries, using this prestigious Organization to provide support in the fields of education, science  and culture.
(23.4) I fully endorse the views of the previous speakers who expressed concern as to the possible consequences of  globalization and suggested finding ways to preserve what is original and unique in each culture. It seems to us that  globalization is also an expression of humanity’s need for unity, union. However, it is a process that must be  scientifically based, subject to the humanist standards of science and morality. The preservation of the diversity of  cultures must not be confined to the representation of culture as some sort of exotic display detached from the global  environment. Every culture must be seen as a necessary and integral part of world culture requiring care and attention.  Only then can we ensure that diversity is preserved and globalization is properly handled in a civilized process. In that  connection, the endeavours of the Director-General of UNESCO, Koïchiro Matsuura, and the proposal of the French  Government warrant support.
(23.5) On the initiative of the President of Tajikistan, and with the backing of the United Nations, 2003 was  proclaimed International Year of Freshwater. The International Fresh Water Forum took place in August of this year in  Dushanbe. It is essential that further scientific research be carried out and that UNESCO pay attention to this highly  topical problem of worldwide significance.
(23.6) Education is the key to the development and social progress of nations. Allow me to express our gratitude to  UNESCO for the support it has given us. Recently, the UNESCO Associated Schools Network has become more active  in Tajikistan. International Literacy Day was marked by drawing, poster and essay competitions for schoolchildren in  connection with education for all (EFA), the Dakar World Education Forum and the national EFA action plan. We would  like to ask UNESCO to increase its support to improve the quality of education, which the Government of Tajikistan  takes very seriously indeed, having adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Education.
(23.7) An international conference on “The role of women in dialogue among cultures in Central Asia” was held in  June of this year in Tajikistan, with the participation of representatives of Asian and European countries, and it once  again underscored the need for dialogue among cultures and religions. We have not limited ourselves to merely holding  the conference – it is followed up in State and non-governmental organizations at the moment by teaching women and  girls in the field of computer literacy. Furthermore, we are planning, with UNESCO, to open a website. I should like to  note the importance of the publication by UNESCO of the History of Civilizations of Central Asia (five volumes of which  have already been published) and we hope that the logical conclusion will be the publication of the sixth volume.  Tajikistan welcomed with great satisfaction the decision of the Executive Board of UNESCO to include the 2,700th  anniversary of Kulob-city in the list of anniversaries endorsed by UNESCO. I should like to transmit the gratitude of the  Government of Tajikistan, the citizens of the Republic and, in particular, the inhabitants of that city for the favourable  decision on this issue. The National Commission is carrying out significant work to preserve the intangible culture. At  present, substantial work is under way with UNESCO to prepare and implement the project “Music, Dance and Crafts of  the Zarafshan Valley” under the UNESCO programme “Proclamation of masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage  of humanity”.
(23.8) Tajikistan welcomes UNESCO’s role regarding the social sciences, bioethics and the human genome.  UNESCO’s contribution to continuing the development of the International Programme for the Development of  Communication and information and communication technologies is important for Tajikistan.
(23.9) Distinguished colleagues, by virtue of the obligations incumbent upon me as Minister of Culture, I must leave  you soon and I should therefore like to make a few suggestions in the field of culture. Particular attention should be paid  to the safeguarding or restoration of ancient historical monuments which have deteriorated or are in danger of complete  destruction. Such monuments are to be found as a rule in developing countries, but they belong to humanity as a whole  and we therefore propose the creation of a separate list of such monuments of the architectural and cultural heritage,  giving prime consideration to their funding. Secondly, in issues of education and culture we should not restrict ourselves  to providing training, we should also, at the same time, strengthen the material basis of education and culture in  developing countries, otherwise it will be impossible to achieve success. As we highly appreciate the role of UNESCO,  and in particular its Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his colleagues, we are convinced that the resolutions  adopted will be implemented and that UNESCO will accomplish its great mission in the service of the development of  education, science and culture and the harmonization of relations between peoples and cultures. In conclusion, I should  like to reaffirm that Tajikistan will take an active part in the execution of all programmes and the achievement of the  noble aims of UNESCO. I wish you every success. Thank you for your attention.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Culture of Tajikistan. We want to congratulate you on the  quality of the work you are doing for your country. It is now my privilege to invite the Deputy Minister of Education,  Science and Technology of Sierra Leone, His Excellency Mr Martin Banya, to the rostrum. Sir, you have the floor.
25.1 Mr BANYA (Sierra Leone):  Mr President, on behalf of Sierra Leone may I congratulate you on your assumption of office, and wish you  all the best you can wish for yourself. Mr President, Director-General of UNESCO, honourable Ministers of Education,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Sierra Leone has a population of approximately 4.4 million, with  extensive mineral deposits and a strong agricultural potential. The country has a long history of education. The first  institution of higher learning in West Africa, Fourah Bay College, was established in Freetown in 1827, and Sierra  Leone stood out as the beacon of Western education and the seat of learning in the subregion.
25.2 However, a decade after attaining its independence in 1961, the country’s fortunes witnessed a continuing  decline which was a result, inter alia, of inappropriate government policies, poor governance and external factors. This  culminated in a war which broke out in 1991 and from which the country has now emerged. During the war, the  education sector became a target for deliberate attacks. It is ironical that the perpetrators of this were school-aged  youths who launched attacks on schools and other educational institutions, as if they had no stake in education. This  may have been caused by the fact that they had no access to school or were unable to complete their schooling. Those  who did have access to school were faced with the narrowness and the elitist nature of schooling prior to the  introduction of the “6-3-3-4” system of education. The 6-3-3-4 system is the system of education presently in operation  in Sierra Leone. The numbers 6-3-3-4 represent six years of primary schooling, three years of junior secondary  schooling, three years of senior secondary schooling and four years of tertiary education.
25.3 The war added a further burden to an already weak educational system, which is currently characterized by a  myriad of post-conflict challenges including devastated infrastructure, displacement of students and teachers, and  disorientation and psychological trauma among teachers and pupils.
25.4 In spite of the numerous challenges, the government is committed to both Education for All (EFA) and the  institutionalized provision that all children have a right to free and compulsory education at primary and secondary  levels. It has therefore embarked on the following steps to improve access to education. Tuition fees for the entire  primary cycle have been abolished. Textbooks in core subjects are also being provided, with the objective of reaching a  ratio of two pupils per book. Instructional materials, mainly exercise books, chalk, registers, pens and pencils, have  been distributed to schools in all parts of the country. The latest government intervention has been support to all girls  who passed the National Primary School Examinations (NPSE) in 2003, who may enter secondary school in the  Northern or Eastern provinces free of charge. Consequent upon the demographic shift as a consequence of the war,  schools for internally displaced persons were established in safe areas of the country, which became known as schools  for the displaced. The government further gave support to refugee schools that were operating in neighbouring countries  and serving Sierra Leonean children.
25.5 During this period, the government also recognized that many children born at the time of the outbreak of the  war were far past the age of schooling by the time the war ended. To address the educational needs of this category of  children, the government, with the support of partners, initiated a number of programmes, which included the Rapid  Response Education Programme (RREP) and Complementary Rapid Education for Primary Schools (CREPS)  programme. The first is an emergency intervention programme of short duration – six months – designed to prepare  children who had lost considerable schooling time for entering or re-entering the formal school system. The curriculum  comprises basic literacy and numeracy, peace and human rights education, and physical and health education, with  measures aimed at reducing the psychological trauma which many children had suffered at that time.
25.6 The Complementary Rapid Education For Primary Schools (CREPS) programme is designed for displaced  children, ex-combatants and other categories of distressed children aged 10 to 18 years. Six years of formal schooling is  condensed into three years under the CREPS for them to regain some of the lost time. The curriculum comprises the  core subjects of language arts, social studies, mathematics, science and pre-vocational studies. In addition to these,  elements of emerging issues such as peace and human rights education, HIV/AIDS and gender issues are integrated into  the teaching of the core subjects. Enrolment in the CREPS programme now stands at 25,731 children of whom about
25.7 The outcome of all these interventions has been reflected in the increased enrolment and retention rates in  formal schooling. Not surprisingly, enrolment soared from 367,000 in 1996 to 1,092,000 in 2003, of whom 41% are  girls. In the area of retention, approximately 70% of the children who enrol complete the primary cycle. The number of  students taking the National Primary School Examination (NPSE), which increased from 18,903 in 1999 to 21,212 in
2000, to 26,368 in 2001 and 47,500 in 2002, is a reflection of the general trend. However, the limited capacity at  secondary level makes admission into junior secondary school a serious problem.
25.8 In spite of our efforts, there are still many daunting challenges. The war has taken its toll on the physical  infrastructure of the country, including schools. Many of the institutions were being used to house displaced people.  Moreover, school equipment, when it existed, has often been destroyed. A rapid assessment conducted in 2001 by the  Ministry of Education, Science and Technology revealed the extensive damage caused to educational infrastructures  and facilities. The survey gave an estimated cost of US $74,728,687 to take care of rehabilitation, reconstruction of  infrastructure and the replacement of teaching/learning materials and equipment.
25.9 In 2000, the government, as earlier stated, undertook the free supply of textbooks in the four core subject  areas of English language, mathematics, integrated science and social science to all primary school children in  government and government-assisted schools countrywide. The aim initially was for a book to be made available to two  students. To date, we are still at a ratio of one book to some four or five pupils. The need for inducements in the form of  staff quarters and remote area allowances is a definite prerequisite to be addressed.
25.10 Mr President, distinguished delegates, let me conclude by saying that there is an interrelationship between  poverty and lack of education. In other words, lack of education can lead to poverty and vice versa. For us in Sierra  Leone, the absence of a functional and relevant education prior to the war provided fertile ground for ignorance and  gullibility generally; hence an unfortunate atmosphere had been created which the rebel movement subsequently  capitalized on to wage a war that ravaged the country for eleven years. This underscores the need for children to be  prioritized, as the government is currently doing in Sierra Leone. For education is the single most important variable  that takes people and nations from the abyss of poverty and stunted growth to the pedestal of improved quality of life.  Thank you very much, Mr President.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your comprehensive report, and we wish you the very best  for your country.  ACCUEIL SOLENNEL DU TIMOR-LESTE EN TANT QU’ETAT MEMBRE DE L’UNESCO  FORMAL WELCOMING OF TIMOR-LESTE AS A MEMBER STATE OF UNESCO  SOLEMNE BIENVENIDA A TIMOR-LESTE COMO NUEVO ESTADO MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO  ОФИЦИАЛЬНОЕ ПРИВЕТСТВИЕ ТИМОРА-ЛЕШТИ В КАЧЕСТВЕ ГОСУДАРСТВА-ЧЛЕНА ЮНЕСКО   א−א 正式欢迎东帝汶成为教科文组织会员国
27. The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegation, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director- General, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I now have the great pleasure to welcome Timor- Leste, which became the 189th Member State of the Organization on 5 June 2003. The instruments of acceptance have  been submitted for consideration and accepted in accordance with the Constitution of the Organization. I would like to  draw attention to the fact that one of the first decisions of the youngest nation in the world was to join UNESCO. We  should all be honoured and proud to warmly welcome our new Member State, and I therefore now invite His  Excellency Mr José António Amorim Dias of Timor-Leste to place his country’s flag among those of the other Member  States of our dear Organization. I now invite the honourable Minister to the rostrum.  (Mr Amorim Dias places the flag of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste on the rostrum)
28.1 Mr AMORIM DIAS (Timor-Leste):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to be here to address the
32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring special greetings from His Excellency President Xanana  Gusmão, who is grateful to UNESCO for having honoured him with the Organization’s Felix Houphouët-Boigny Peace  Prize for 2002. I should also like to convey the best wishes of the Government and people of the Democratic Republic  of Timor-Leste.
28.2 Mr President, allow me to express our congratulations on your election to preside over the work of this  session of the General Conference. On behalf of the President and people of Timor-Leste, I also wish to express our  sincere appreciation of the words of support and encouragement for our country that have been expressed by so many  delegates to this General Conference. We are particularly grateful to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of  UNESCO, for visiting our country in July this year. The Director-General’s visit marked an important moment for  Timor-Leste, as the newest nation was honoured with its first visit by a leader of an important United Nations  Specialized Agency. In addition, this visit constituted a firm commitment by UNESCO to support and consolidate its  existing partnership with Timor-Leste.
28.3 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I speak today with a mixture of feelings, feelings of  happiness and of sorrow: happiness for the opportunity to address this august plenary when, for the first time in its  history, Timor-Leste – the newest nation of this century – joins UNESCO; but also deep sadness at having lost, just  over a month ago, one of the great leaders of our time, and a great friend of the people of Timor-Leste, Dr Sérgio Vieira  de Mello, an innocent victim of intolerance and extremism. Our people cried over his death. With your permission,  Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to his memory and reiterate our profound solidarity with his family, friends and  colleagues.
28.4 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Timor-Leste hopes that UNESCO, as the lead agency for  education, science, culture and communication, will establish a laboratory of ideas, initiatives and concrete actions to  support the ongoing efforts of nation-building, a daunting task, entrusted to the Government and civil society of Timor- Leste. In this regard, we appreciate the Director-General’s close attention and commitment to promoting and  safeguarding the cultural heritage of our young nation. This policy supports our President’s recognition of the  importance of protecting both the tangible and the intangible cultural heritage. I take this opportunity to inform the  plenary that, since 1999 or early 2000, UNESCO has been assisting us in the major reconstruction of our Traditional  House, or “Uma Fukin”, in the Timorese traditional language, and has turned it into our national Museum and Cultural  Exhibition Centre. This is a major recognition of the Timorese identity. We hope that the conservation of other aspects  of our cultural heritage will soon be materialized in other parts of the country.
28.5 In the education sector, our government, with support from the international community, has succeeded in  rehabilitating around 700 schools out of the 900 which were destroyed in 1999. In addition, more than thirty new  schools have been constructed. Despite this, 25% of our children still have no access to education. Our people have  asked for more schools and better teachers. Many of the 65 sub-districts demand the opening of schools at the  secondary level. Others ask for agricultural, technical or vocational schools. All this should have been done yesterday,  not tomorrow, or later. At the tertiary level, we have a national university with more than 7,000 students. Hundreds of  candidates for admission are frustrated at being unable to graduate from the national university. We now have a  proliferation of institutions of higher learning without official recognition by the government. To deal with this situation,  the government has assumed responsibility for preparing rules with a view to regulating tertiary education by defining  parameters for the creation and existence of such institutions.
28.6 Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the expectations for a brighter future are very high but the  challenges are enormous. We welcome UNESCO’s new initiative in the form of a programme of science education for  the people and children of Timor-Leste and its support for basic education in general and for our rich intangible cultural  heritage. We look forward very much to the Organization’s envisaged future activities and presence in Timor-Leste.
28.7 To conclude, Mr President, Timor-Leste has benefited from international solidarity, for which we are very  grateful. But we must redouble our efforts so that effective strategies for sustainable development may be applied to the  eradication of poverty, with increased expenditure on public health, education, the promotion of human rights, the  strengthening of democratic institutions, and so forth, all of which are indispensable for peace, stability and prosperity.  Thank you.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and once again we welcome you to UNESCO.
30. The PRESIDENT:  After giving the floor to the next speaker, I will pass the Chair to the distinguished Ambassador and  Permanent Delegate of Canada to UNESCO. The next speaker is His Excellency Mr Mataitoga, Ambassador,  Permanent Delegate of Fiji to UNESCO. Ambassador, you have the floor, Sir.  (Mr Louis Hamel, Canada, takes the Chair)
31.1 Mr MATAITOGA (Fiji):  Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, my delegation would first like to express its appreciation  and congratulate His Excellency Ambassador Omolewa on his appointment to his high office. We also wish to warmly  thank the Director-General, the Executive Board and the entire staff of UNESCO for their tireless efforts in the last  biennium. My country is grateful for the assistance it has received from UNESCO and without any doubt will continue  to receive in the future. We also welcome the return of the United States of America to our ranks and also indeed  particularly welcome and appreciate the admission of Timor-Leste to membership of this august Organization.
31.2 Excellencies, my government has launched its strategic plan, in which it sets out its policies for strengthening  institutions responsible for the maintenance of law and order and good governance. Given our recent history, the  government is also implementing policies aimed at sustainable social and economic development which is sensitive to  the needs of a multicultural society like ours. The promotion of equal and effective participation of all minority or  special groupings is also being addressed in that context. In addition, the government has started to implement its  blueprint and government policy initiatives to enhance the participation of indigenous Fijians and Rotumans in the  socio-economic development of the country. Other core objectives of these policies are to improve the education and  training of indigenous Fijians and Rotumans so as to equip them for more effective participation in the commercial life  of the nation. Also we are taking steps to ensure that the cultures, and indeed languages, of the indigenous communities  are preserved and enhanced as we try to build our multicultural society. These policies are being implemented in an  environment which gives due recognition to the indigenous peoples and also recognizes that the long-term security of  our nation is dependent on addressing their specific needs.
31.3 In the area of education, Mr President, we thank UNESCO for the assistance we have received in this sector  in the last biennium. As you are aware, the provision of education in my country is largely in the hands of private  initiatives, most of the schools being owned and operated by religious or community organizations and other private  institutions. Since the last General Conference, there has been a dramatic development on the international front. There  is continuous optimistic research for a new world order and indeed expectation of peace dividends; yet we are still  confronted with the problems of poverty, debt, illiteracy, environmental exploitation and indeed terrorism. My  government recognizes the pivotal role of education in the development of our children in instilling values and beliefs  that we hope would better prepare them to acquire the skills and knowledge required to meet the challenges of the  twenty-first century, firstly in the Fiji context and indeed in the global village. In this regard, citizenship education and  civic responsibility have been included in the school curriculum as compulsory subjects. The teaching of conversational  Fijian to non-Fijian students and Hindi to non-Hindi-speaking students has also been included in the school curriculum.  Similar strategies are being put in place to consolidate and improve standards and performance, while striving for  excellence at all levels. We are embarking on several initiatives, one of which is the establishment of a teachers  registration board to help improve the professional quality of our teachers.
31.4 Mr President, since breaking the language barrier is the first step towards cross-cultural understanding, we  have introduced other new initiatives that will improve the reconciliation of differences in our community. To ensure  the applied relevance of education and training in creating gainful employment for the nation’s youth, our government  continues to maintain close and regular links with industry and the private sector in that regard. Fiji also remains  committed to the requirements of special education and technical and vocational education, and at the same time energy  conservation and environmental awareness programmes have been introduced in the school curricula. We are grateful to  UNESCO for UNEVCO and the Associated Schools Project, and look forward to further UNESCO support in technical  and vocational education and training, adult education, environmental awareness education and, indeed, rural education.
31.5 In the area of culture, Mr President, as other Pacific island speakers have already observed in the plenary,  there has been a growing interest in, and commitment to, the promotion of culture in our subregion. There is much to be
326  learned about Pacific culture in its broadest sense. There is growing confidence in the emergence of a distinctive  contemporary Pacific island culture. Indeed, that is one of the reasons why, in Pacific subregional consultations among  the members, additional funding is being sought from UNESCO for major projects in culture. We acknowledge the  valuable assistance we are receiving through the regional office in Bangkok. Fiji supports the activities proposed for the  coming biennia, which include the cross-cutting project for poverty alleviation, heritage tourism to help generate  employment opportunities, and arts education.
31.6 It will come as no surprise, Mr President, that my country, and indeed all those of the Pacific region, have  given priority attention to marine science and the environment. Our very existence is intricately linked to the  maintenance of a close and balanced relationship with our ocean and its resources. They are indeed the bedrock of our  economic livelihood and national development. This explains why we have developed economic activities that seek to  found a correct balance as regards the sustainable development of these resources. In this regard, Fiji would support  funding for follow-up work in the Pacific on the environment and development in coastal regions and in small islands,  and looks forward to the follow-up initiative on the World Conference on Science. In the next biennium, Fiji is seeking  assistance in the areas of the ecological sciences, Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme, earth sciences, natural  hazard education, Small Islands Voice 2004, and local and indigenous knowledge.
31.7 In the area of communication and information, Mr President, we have shown great interest in, and support for,  the role of the press in development. Fiji of course has given particular emphasis in supporting programmes aimed at  enhancing media freedom and its role in democratizing society. However, we do insist with regard to media freedom to  inform on public-interest issues that the media must demonstrate integrity and sensitivity towards the socio-cultural  values of its host community. Among the three projects approved for funding under the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC) for the Pacific, Fiji is grateful for the financial assistance of US $100,000 to  the Fiji Community Broadcasting Development Project. We are also grateful to UNESCO for helping us to enhance our  capacity to meet the three main objectives in this field: addressing the digital divide, the work toward ensuring a free  flow of, and equitable access to, data, and work to achieve an international consensus on newly acquired norms and  principles.
31.8 The setting up of the Fellowship Bank Scheme in 1993 to cater for training needs in Member States has  benefited Fiji immensely, and again we are thankful for that.
31.9 Fiji fully supports the proposed activities and funding requests that were identified during the regional  consultation held earlier in my country. We are looking forward to receiving the Director-General in the Pacific region  in 2004. It will provide us, and indeed the other countries in the region, with an opportunity to showcase the region and  to show the positive impact UNESCO and its programmes are having in our part of the world.
31.10 In closing, I wish to express our gratitude to the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for his stewardship,  and to his staff for their unwavering commitment to the varied needs of this country. Fiji is confident that under his  leadership in the coming biennium, UNESCO will continue to effectively meet the formidable challenges ahead of us.  Thank you, Mr President.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Mataitoga. I would now like to ask Her Excellency Ms Medita Wheatley,  Secretary-General of the British Virgin Islands National Commission for UNESCO, to come to the rostrum.
33.1 Ms WHEATLEY (British Virgin Islands):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, on the eve of the twentieth anniversary of our associate membership of UNESCO, the Government of the  British Virgin Islands is pleased to address this 32nd session of the General Conference. As we applaud the efforts of  the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his Secretariat, we look back to recognize the labour of those who,  over the past 57 years, have shaped the Organization and given it the kind of foundation on which succeeding  generations may build.
33.2 We particularly salute the framers of UNESCO’s Constitution. As a constitution crafted for the purpose of  building peace in the mind, it is unique in the United Nations system in that it recognizes the voices of all nations which  enjoy membership of the Organization – great nations and small nations, Members and Associate Members, all have a  voice. And so the British Virgin Islands can address this august body on what for us is a historic occasion. We also wish  to pay tribute to the former Director-General, Federico Mayor, for it was during his tenure of office that the spirit of this  great Organization reached out and touched the British Virgin Islands, infusing us with a sense of the responsibility of  Member States and Associate Members. As a result, a British Virgin Islands National Commission for UNESCO was  born in 1996.
33.3 We appreciate the thinking which persuaded the framers of the Constitution to view National Commissions  as the key partners of UNESCO. National Commissions which are supported by the Organization are well placed to  engage the interest and participation of government departments, individuals, professional bodies and organizations in  civil society. This is why we share the concern of the Director-General that the allocations for activities of National  Commissions would be reduced by US $1 million in the effort to achieve a US $31.6 million reduction in a zero  nominal growth budget.
33.4 We appreciate that UNESCO is not a funding agency and that the need to rationalize spending is ever present.  We recognize that in the process of reform a streamlined budget is tied to a streamlined programme. This approach  illustrates a principle which may be applied to programming designed to build peace, and is for that reason  commendable. However, we believe that UNESCO’s comparative advantage in programme development for peace  should be maintained at whatever cost. Therefore we fully endorse the Director General’s perception that UNESCO  needs alliances and partnerships in order to implement the kind of programming that would satisfy the needs of a world  which is now challenged to keep in view the vision of peace that guided the framers of UNESCO’s Constitution.
33.5 So we welcome the emphasis which the Director-General has placed on education for the eradication of  poverty, education for the teaching of universal values, democratic principles and practices, education for human and  civil rights, intercultural education and respect for cultural diversity, and education for the prevention of HIV/AIDS.
33.6 Situated as we are in a region with fragile ecosystems and economies dependent on tourism and offshore  banking, we appreciate the emphasis on sustainable development, disaster prevention, and the harnessing of information  and communication technology in an intersectoral manner.
33.7 In keeping with the desire to enhance our tourism product while at the same time being cognizant of the  importance of cultural preservation, we welcome the emphasis on the safeguarding of the natural heritage and bring to  the attention of the General Conference the need of a small territory and Associate Member to claim the promise of  UNESCO’s Constitution and have its unique natural phenomenon, small though it may be, considered independently for  the World Heritage List.
33.8 Finally, we would like to encourage the Director-General to re-emphasize the Organization’s role as  standard-setter. If this Organization continues to apply its principles without distinction, and to underline equality of  opportunity, it will continue to be the world’s best hope for peace. I thank you.
34. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je donne maintenant la parole à Monsieur Amadou Tcheko, chargé d’affaires à la Délégation permanente du  Niger à l’UNESCO.
35.1 M. TCHEKO (Niger) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, distingués délégués, je voudrais exprimer les chaleureuses  félicitations de ma délégation à Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Michael Abiola Omolewa du Nigéria, pour son élection  méritée à la présidence de notre auguste assemblée et lui souhaiter plein succès dans l’accomplissement des tâches  exaltantes qui lui ont ainsi été confiées.
35.2 Qu’il me soit également permis de féliciter le Directeur général pour le travail remarquable qu’il a accompli  depuis sa nomination à la tête de notre Organisation, notamment en ce qui concerne la réforme de l’UNESCO. Grâce à  ses efforts, celle-ci ne cesse de gagner en efficacité et en visibilité dans la mise en œuvre de ses programmes. Je saisis  l’occasion qui m’est offerte pour lui transmettre les remerciements du peuple et du Gouvernement du Niger pour la  coopération dynamique et fructueuse que l’UNESCO poursuit si heureusement avec mon pays dans divers domaines,  s’agissant notamment du développement de l’éducation de base, de l’éducation pour tous, des programmes relatifs aux  énergies renouvelables, et de l’éducation à la citoyenneté, à la démocratie et à la paix. Dans le secteur de la  communication, les efforts soutenus de l’UNESCO ont permis, en liaison avec le PNUD, l’installation dans mon pays  de plusieurs stations de radio communautaires qui commencent à remédier notablement à l’isolement des populations  rurales.
35.3 De plus, l’appui technique et financier de l’UNESCO a permis au Comité de suivi des recommandations du  Colloque international « Armée et Démocratie en Afrique : cas du Niger » de mener avec succès des activités de  formation et d’éducation civique dans les casernes. Ces activités viennent renforcer la stratégie de prévention des  conflits élaborée et mise  en œuvre par mon pays.
35.4 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation se réjouit et se félicite de la place accordée à la lutte contre la pauvreté  dans le Projet de programme et de budget soumis à notre examen. Il n’est point besoin de rappeler que la plupart des  difficultés que connaissent nos pays trouvent leur source dans ce fléau. Aussi ma délégation appuie-t-elle sans réserve  ce programme, qui rejoint les préoccupations majeures des plus hautes autorités de mon pays. Celles-ci ne ménagent  aucun effort, dans le cadre du programme spécial lancé par le Président Tandja Mamadou, pour doter chaque village du  Niger d’un puits, d’une case de santé et d’une école. Toutefois, ma délégation souhaiterait que l’accent soit mis  davantage sur la réalisation de projets pilotes, plutôt que sur de multiples et répétitives études dont nos populations ne  perçoivent pas les effets dans leur vie quotidienne.
35.5 Par ailleurs, ma délégation se félicite de l’intérêt que l’UNESCO accorde au Nouveau partenariat pour le  développement de l’Afrique (NEPAD), qui vise également à éliminer la pauvreté sur notre continent. Pour bien marquer  son adhésion à ce projet d’inspiration africaine, le Niger a créé un ministère chargé tout spécialement de l’intégration  africaine et des programmes du NEPAD. J’invite donc tous les États membres de l’UNESCO à soutenir résolument  l’ensemble des activités relatives au NEPAD qui figurent dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005.
35.6 Monsieur le Président, nos travaux se déroulent à un moment où la communauté internationale s’interroge de  plus en plus sur son devenir. Jamais l’intolérance entre les peuples et les conflits internes ou interétatiques n’ont atteint  une intensité aussi critique. C’est dire que les questions qui se posent à nous aujourd’hui ont une portée éthique et qu’il  y va de la coexistence pacifique entre les peuples, les nations et les cultures. De ce fait, l’UNESCO se trouve plus que  jamais interpellée en tant que forum intellectuel du système des Nations Unies. A ce titre, il lui incombe d’aider à la  recherche de réponses à toutes ces questions et de baliser la voie à suivre en fournissant les repères indispensables.
35.7 Il s’agit pour notre Organisation de s’interroger plus que jamais sur les causes et les sources des conflits afin  d’en repérer les signes précurseurs et de les combattre. Pour réussir dans cette mission, il lui faut renforcer ses activités  prospectives et les étendre à tous les secteurs. L’anticipation doit tendre vers l’action et c’est alors que devient pertinent  le rôle normatif de notre Organisation. À cet égard, ma délégation appuie pleinement l’avant-projet de convention pour  la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel que la Conférence générale est invitée à adopter à cette 32e session.
35.8 De plus, ma délégation appelle de tous ses vœux l’élaboration dans les meilleurs délais d’une Convention  internationale sur la diversité culturelle, qui viendra renforcer le dispositif déjà mis en place par l’UNESCO dans le  domaine de la culture. La tâche ne sera pas aisée, je le sais, car il s’agira pour nous lors des futures négociations de tenir  compte à la fois du caractère marchand des produits culturels et de leur spécificité par rapport aux autres marchandises.  En d’autres termes, nous devrons tout mettre en œuvre pour préserver la diversité des cultures tout en favorisant le  commerce des biens et services culturels, qui jouent déjà un rôle important dans le développement économique de  nombreux pays. L’objectif est de mettre un terme à l’actuelle tendance à l’uniformisation.
35.9 Monsieur le Président, ma délégation se félicite de l’initiative consistant à associer cette année les  parlementaires à nos travaux. À cet égard, elle souhaiterait proposer dans nos pays respectifs l’organisation d’une  journée parlementaire d’information sur les idéaux de l’UNESCO.
35.10 Pour conclure, je voudrais féliciter les États-Unis d’Amérique pour leur retour au sein de la grande famille de  l’UNESCO et souhaiter la bienvenue au Timor-Leste. Je vous remercie.
36. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Monsieur. Je transmettrai vos vœux au Président de la Conférence générale. Je demande aux deux  derniers orateurs de bien vouloir ne pas dépasser quatre minutes. Je donne tout d’abord la parole à Madame Monique  Fouilhoux, présidente du Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO.
37.1 Mme FOUILHOUX (Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif, Mesdames, Messieurs, je commencerai mon intervention là où je l’avais terminée en octobre 2001: «  Apprenons réellement à vivre ensemble ». Quelques progrès ont été faits, mais pas assez pour changer le cours des  choses et des comportements. L’actualité internationale dominée par la succession de conflits meurtriers, les violations  des droits de l’homme, la persistance d’un développement inégal et des rapports de domination nous inclinent au  pessimisme. Nous prônons beaucoup, dans le Nord, la solidarité internationale, mais nous occultons également  beaucoup notre manque d’exemplarité.
37.2 Les ONG ont amélioré leur travail collectif et leur partenariat avec l’UNESCO s’est développé au cours des  deux dernières années. Qu’il s’agisse de la préparation ou du suivi du Sommet de Johannesburg, de la préparation du  Sommet sur l’information, de la première Journée mondiale de la diversité culturelle ou de la Journée internationale de  la paix, deux journées au cours desquelles nous avons, conjointement avec l’UNESCO, organisé deux tables rondes sur
329  le dialogue des cultures pour la paix et la culture de la paix et les fondements de la réconciliation. Nos commissions  programmatiques mixtes et les consultations collectives thématiques d’ONG sur l’Education pour tous et  l’enseignement supérieur, qui se sont réunies cette année, ont largement contribué à la réflexion et au débat. Elles ont  notamment permis que le rôle de l’enseignement supérieur dans la mise en œuvre de l’EPT et des stratégies sur le  développement durable soit davantage reconnu et mis en évidence. Ce sont là des exemples et je ne doute pas que vous  prêterez une grande attention au document 32 C/31, portant sur les stratégies sectorielles et intersectorielles de  coopération de l’Organisation avec les ONG, ainsi qu’aux éléments techniques qui figurent à la fin du 32 C/5 et qui  donnent un aperçu exhaustif de la coopération avec les ONG.
37.3 Apprendre à vivre ensemble par l’éducation : l’éducation doit permettre réellement d’enraciner les  fondements du vivre ensemble. Mais le droit à l’éducation de qualité pour tous est encore loin d’être une réalité pour  tous les enfants du monde et les adultes, tout particulièrement pour les filles et les femmes. L’UNESCO, qui joue un  rôle primordial, doit faire encore davantage pour que les objectifs de Dakar ne restent pas un vœu pieux et que les  efforts des donateurs soient mieux coordonnés. Cette éducation de qualité dont les Ministres sont en train de débattre  doit inclure une éducation à la citoyenneté pour un développement durable et équitable. Il s’agit bien là d’une exigence  fondamentale dans cette époque dominée par la mondialisation, où il importe à la fois de reconnaître et de maîtriser nos  interdépendances tout en maintenant la diversité de nos cultures. Apprendre à vivre ensemble pour assurer une existence  viable et une compréhension réelle basées sur le respect de l’autre grâce à un soutien sans réserve de la stratégie relative  aux droits de l’homme et surtout de sa mise en œuvre intégrée dans le cadre d’une action concertée et coordonnée avec  le Haut Commissariat des Nations Unies aux droits de l’homme, ainsi que de la stratégie de lutte contre le racisme, la  discrimination, la xénophobie et l’intolérance.
37.4 Apprendre à vivre ensemble, enfin, par la préservation et la promotion de la féconde diversité des cultures,  comme le mentionne l’Acte constitutif. En 2001, vous avez adopté à l’unanimité la Déclaration universelle sur la  diversité culturelle. À la présente session, vous allez discuter de l’élaboration d’un instrument normatif international  concernant cette diversité. Les ONG partagent l’inquiétude du Directeur général quant aux divergences idéologiques qui  semblent prévaloir, alors même que nous avons besoin d’un vrai débat de fond. Aussi plaidons-nous pour que la raison  et les intérêts communs l’emportent sur les intérêts particuliers et économiques et pour que le Directeur général soit  mandaté pour mener un vrai débat qui permettra de dialoguer, d’échanger et de confronter les points de vue - y compris  sur les sujets qui nous divisent.
37.5 Aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, nous devons nous efforcer d’écouter, d’entendre en particulier la jeunesse, de  comprendre et d’apprendre, oui, d’apprendre de l’histoire au lieu de la répéter, afin de ne plus entendre du haut de cette  tribune, comme ce fut le cas il y a encore quelques semaines, cette mère rwandaise nous dire « mon enfant a été  assassiné pour ce qu’il était et non pour ce qu’il avait fait ». Alors, nous voulons espérer et nous formons le vœu que  dans sa grande sagesse, cette Conférence prenne des décisions d’action dignes, responsables et solidaires. Je vous en  remercie.
(39.1) Mr AL-MULLAIS (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States) (translation from the Arabic):   In the Name of God, who said in his well-planned book: “O mankind! We created you from a single male and  female, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each other. Verily the most honoured of you in the sight  of Allah is the most righteous of you. And Allah has full Knowledge and is well-acquainted (with all things)” (Al-Hujurat,
13). Mr President of the Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, ladies and gentlemen, Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of  God be upon you. I should like to begin by congratulating your Excellency on the confidence which this august assembly  has bestowed on you by electing you as President of the Conference. I should also like, personally and on behalf of my  colleagues in the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States, to register my pride and admiration regarding UNESCO’s  endeavours to achieve its goals at a time when there is a growing need for all sincere efforts aimed at relieving the burden  on humanity, when the world has begun to experience problems that are a secret for no-one, when education can no  longer cope and culture is in the dock.
(39.2) May God bless UNESCO and the ministries of education! This world has entered a crisis of morals whose  effects have reached every part of the world, and a crisis of education and behaviour, which have wreaked havoc. For  man has departed from the true path which the Creator, praise be to Him, has indicated in his divine Messages, and has  rejected the regulations and laws established to order his life. The result is what we are experiencing today: a real crisis in  education, which has not only filled the earth with iniquity but has reached up into the atmosphere and brought back  troubles and calamities the like of which the world has never seen. Violence has gained the upper hand and education  therefore requires general surgery, and a skilful scalpel, to probe its policies, explore its programmes and examine its  tools. How great is our need today for a complete and scrupulous revision of the practices in our institutions, to enable us  to ascertain the degree of conformity of social behaviour with what we know, prescribe and aspire to, so that we can  reduce the yawning gap between what we know and what we do, between what we teach our children and the behaviour  we see which confirms the gap between theory and practice.
(39.3) Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, we in the field of education need to follow the models recommended  to us by our Creator which we should inculcate in our children. I am pleased to confirm in your presence that we at the  Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States believe in the kind of education that makes all people feel like members of  the same species: as the Prophet of Islam (God bless him and grant him salvation) said: “Thou art the descendant of  Adam, and Adam is created of dust. Thus, an Arab has no superiority over a non-Arab nor a white over a black except by  piety.” The kind of education that enters the human soul and actuates an inclination and a natural disposition towards  what is good, that calls to everyone to compete in its pursuit, to improve the self and to adopt proper conduct and good  work. Let us create a sound form of education which eliminates barriers, establishes the pillars of international security  and transforms the weeping of children, the cries of widows and bereaved mothers and calls for help that echo throughout
331  our modern world into the smiles of children and sunlight and the greening of the earth. Let us create a form of education  that is a building tool, a source of strength for the morality of peoples and a subject of agreement and encounter between  their populations, who will use it to fight terrorism and violence and to defend their joint rights. Are we being effective?  The children of this world badly need the answer to be yes. For they look to this organization with appreciation and  admiration. Greetings then to UNESCO and to its Director-General. We in the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf  States are pleased to confirm our resolve to strengthen our cooperation with him in the interests of education, science and  culture and for the benefit of world society, now and in the future. Thank you for your attention. Peace be with you.
40. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Mesdames et Messieurs, nous avons maintenant épuisé la liste d’orateurs de ce matin mais, avant de lever  cette séance, je dois vous informer que la délégation de la Turquie a fait savoir qu’elle souhaitait exercer le droit de  réponse prévu par l’article 73 de notre Règlement intérieur. Conformément à cet article, j’invite donc la Turquie à  prendre la parole pour deux minutes.
41.1 Mr ERKUL (Turkey):  Thank you, Mr President. Having listened to the statements of the representative of the Greek Cypriot  Administration, I would like to underline that his allegations lacked basic knowledge.
41.2 Turkey’s intervention in Cyprus in 1974 stems from its rights and obligations under the 1959-1960 Treaties  of Alliance and Guarantee, international instruments still in force. There is no occupation in Cyprus other than the
40-year-old occupation of the seat of the government by the Greek Cypriot side.
41.3 The Greek Cypriot claims that the cultural heritage in the North is being destroyed have already been refuted  by foreign observers, including prominent experts from UNESCO, the World Council of Churches and the Council of  Europe. There are no people “enclaved” in the island. This term was used for describing the plight of the Turkish  Cypriots in the 1963-1974 period. As in any country, certain criteria have to be met for establishing secondary school  facilities in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. There are currently only nine Greek Cypriot students in the  Karpaz area at the age of secondary school education, which is far below the minimum requirement foreseen by the  Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. They have the right to attend the schools available in the North.
41.4 We would have wished that the Greek Cypriot Administration had responded positively to the openings of  the Turkish Cypriot side rather than once again reciting familiar allegations.
41.5 Mr President, I would like my intervention to be included in the verbatim records of this debate. Thank you.
42. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Monsieur le délégué de la Turquie. Je ne voudrais pas qu’un débat s’engage, mais je vois que Chypre  demande à exercer un droit de réponse. Si vous me le permettez, je vais limiter l’intervention de Chypre à une minute et  ensuite je lèverai la séance.
43.1 Mr GEORGIADES (Cyprus):  Mr President, the delegate of Turkey essentially said that his government does not recognize my delegation.  Mr President, this Conference, UNESCO and the entire United Nations system recognize the government of President  Papadopoulos as the sole and legitimate Government of the Republic of Cyprus. If Turkey wishes to remain the sole  exception to this we cannot do much about it, but Turkey should realize that exceptions in today’s world result in  isolation.
43.2 The reference to the “Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus” is unacceptable to the whole international  community. More recently, the European Court of Human Rights, in its decision in the case of Loizidou vs. Turkey,  recognized that the Republic of Turkey has full and effective control in the occupied areas of Cyprus, and the regime of  Mr Denktash has been described as a subordinate local administration of Turkey. Moreover, in United Nations Security  Council resolutions 541(83) and 550(84), the secessionist entity called “Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus” was  declared illegal and the international community was asked not to recognize this entity.
43.3 With respect to the Karpaz area high schools, children between the ages of 12 and 15 years old are forced to  be separated from their families because the Turkish side refuses to accept the appointments of their Greek Cypriot  teachers. Through the discriminatory vetting of books and their policy, the regime deprives these children of  educational materials. This policy, Mr President, is not only a flagrant violation of the right to education, but it also  violates the Third Vienna Agreement of 1975 that was signed by Mr Denktash himself.
43.4 Need I say more about credibility and legitimacy? Mr President, I strongly regret the comments made by the  Turkish delegate. The destruction of the cultural heritage of occupied Cyprus is a well-documented case. If there is a
332  lesson to be learned today it is that impunity nurtures anachronistic and unacceptable conduct in today’s system of  international relations. Thank you.
44. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Monsieur le délégué de Chypre. Je vois que la Turquie demande la parole. Voici ce que je propose :  nous n’allons pas ouvrir un débat ; néanmoins, je vais donner la parole à la Turquie de sorte que chacun des deux pays  sera intervenu deux fois. Ce sera la dernière intervention et elle ne devra pas excéder une minute. Je tiens à dire aux  deux parties que toutes leurs déclarations seront consignées dans les  procès-verbaux de la Conférence générale. Merci.
45.1 Mr ERKUL (Turkey):  Thank you, Mr President. We regret taking the floor once again.
45.2 The Cyprus issue is a long-standing issue that is being negotiated in the relevant United Nations forums.  UNESCO as an organization with a mission to plant peace in the minds of men and women should be the place to  bridge gaps through cultural, educational and scientific interactions. Therefore, any attempt to exploit this forum for  political ends should not be given a lead. Thank you.
46. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Nous voici parvenus au terme de nos travaux de ce matin. Il ne me reste donc plus qu’à vous souhaiter un très  agréable week-end et à vous donner rendez-vous dans cette salle lundi matin à 10 heures. Merci.   La séance est levée à 12 h 40   The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.40   Заседание закрывается в 12.40  א א١٢,٤٠א    会议于 12 时 40 分结束