97  Cinquième séance plénière
1er octobre 2003 à 10 h 10  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Fifth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, distinguished heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to declare  open the fifth plenary meeting at which we shall continue with the general policy debate.
1.2 Dear colleagues, as you all know, the United States of America is officially back in this house as from today.  This is a cause for great satisfaction to all of us since we not only welcome a great country back to UNESCO but we  also celebrate the reinforcement of the universality of our Organization. Distinguished colleagues, it is therefore a great  pleasure and a great honour for me to announce our first speaker this morning, the Honourable Roderick Paige,  Secretary of Education of the United States of America, our newest Member State as of today. Sir, we all remember the  excellent speech given by Ms Bush two days ago in front of our assembly. However, since you are not the First Lady,  and as I would like to reward you with a gift from my country, you are asked to respect the eight-minute speaking time  allowed for your address. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome the United States of America back to UNESCO  and the Honourable Roderick Paige to the rostrum.
2.1 Mr PAIGE (United States of America):  Thank you. Your Excellencies, Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished Ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to  address this historic gathering. Just over a year ago, President Bush set the United States on a course to rejoin the global  mission of UNESCO and to participate fully in its mission to advance human rights, tolerance and learning. This  morning in London, the United States instrument of acceptance signed by the Secretary of State, Colin Powell, is being  delivered. And, as of this week, the flag of the United States flies alongside those of other UNESCO Member States.
2.2 My country’s First Lady, Laura Bush, spoke to you earlier this week. She is a passionate advocate for our  nation’s children. As many of you know, Ms Bush is the UNESCO Honorary Ambassador for the United Nations  Literacy Decade. I can think of no better person to represent the United States on this issue than our First Lady. As  Ms Bush said on Monday, we hope to achieve results in four key areas: universal literacy – the opportunity for every  child to read and gain knowledge; quality education – with an emphasis on tolerance and truth; post-conflict education –  helping the people of Afghanistan, Iraq and African countries rebuild their education systems; and HIV/AIDS education  – because we know the best way to eradicate AIDS is through education.
2.3 Under the leadership of the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, UNESCO is now in a much better position to  achieve its goals than when the United States left in 1984. This Organization is fortunate to have his vision, and I am  grateful for his friendship and for his commitment to education. We are also grateful to the many delegations for their  warm welcome. We look forward to renewing old friendships and forming new ones as we listen and learn. The United  States is also delighted that Timor-Leste is now a Member State of UNESCO.
2.4 For almost two decades, the United States has been an Observer of UNESCO’s work. We return to  membership status mindful of your many initiatives and supportive of the goals of this great Organization. For instance,  UNESCO’s role as coordinator of the “Education for All” effort is vital, and is in line with UNESCO’s Constitution,  which says that States Parties believe in “full and equal opportunities for education for all”. It is also in line with  Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that “Everyone has the right to education”.  Education for all parallels our efforts in the United States with our “No Child Left Behind” Act. Our law provides a  guarantee to parents that every child will graduate with appropriate skills in reading and mathematics. In my country,  we believe that every child can learn. Like Education for All, it is a landmark, revolutionary initiative.
2.5 “An investment in knowledge always pays the highest return,” one of our country’s Founding Fathers,  Benjamin Franklin, once said. Achieving education for all is a key step in ensuring a more prosperous and peaceful  world. It can be a vital weapon in the fight against hatred and the terrorism it spawns. Our worldwide commitment to  education must be relentless. We must be especially cognizant of the needs of countries emerging from conflict or  poverty. This point was recently discussed in Mexico City at the third Inter-American Educational Ministerial, at which  I was honoured to represent my country. I know it will also be a point of discussion at the upcoming Summit of the  Americas in January 2004. There is a growing consensus that education is the best short-term and long-term means for  healing, progress and stability.
2.6 In addition, we look forward to playing a helpful role, with other UNESCO partners, to ensure that science,  technology and engineering are used properly and practically to solve the world’s problems. Preservation of the world’s  increasingly endangered freshwater resources is a significant global challenge. The United States helped found the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, which we have continued to support over the past 18 years as an  Observer nation. We have worked closely with other countries and UNESCO on joint research to foster progress on  biodiversity, environmental policy development and environmental monitoring around the world.
2.7 Most of you are aware of the work of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In  the coming year alone, USAID plans to provide basic education support in 48 countries, higher education assistance in
60 countries, and advanced training of individuals in 75 countries.
2.8 The United States also seeks to work with you to preserve cultural artefacts in developing countries, where  treasures are otherwise unprotected. We have committed ourselves to funding and participating in the important work of  the World Heritage Committee.
2.9 We are also most anxious to share in UNESCO’s important effort to promote the rights of freedom of  expression and freedom of the press – values upon which our country was founded.
2.10 Mr President, I thank UNESCO’s Member States again for their gracious welcome. In rejoining the  Organization, we hope that the fabric of American society and culture will contribute to UNESCO’s universality.  Together we will work for literacy, culture, peace, freedom and tolerance. Together, we will share our common  devotion to humanity and service to those in need. Thank you very much. We are very pleased to be back.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellencies. I should once again like to remind our delegates that, as agreed on  the organization of our work, each speaker will continue to have eight minutes to address the plenary. In the event that  interventions go over the eight-minute limit the music will commence and continue crescendo. As you are aware  UNESCO is the house of all cultures and music is one of the most beautiful expressions of culture. Nevertheless I want  you to listen to as little music as possible during this general policy debate. For the time being I am happy to remark  that few speakers have given us the opportunity to listen to our “best of” selection of the music of the world. I hope that  your cooperation on this matter, which will be rewarded with a present from my country, will continue during this  session of the General Conference. It is now my great pleasure to call on our next speaker, His Excellency the Deputy  Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho. You are welcome to the rostrum, Sir.
4.1 Mr LEHOHLA (Lesotho):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  honourable heads of delegation, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election as President of the General Conference at its 32nd session, a responsibility I know you  will carry out with honour. My delegation would like to take this opportunity to welcome the United States of America  back into the UNESCO family, as this will once more ensure the universality of the Organization. We also welcome  Timor-Leste as UNESCO’s youngest Member State.
4.2 Mr President, the United Nations Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr Kofi Annan, paid a visit to Lesotho  in August 2002. His visit was followed by two missions by his special envoys on HIV/AIDS and humanitarian disasters,  respectively. The latter’s report testified that food insecurity is a real threat to survival, especially in the mountain areas  of our country. In this regard, Lesotho is very appreciative of the tremendous response from her friends and partners in  development which was a result of the United Nations Secretary-General’s appeal for hunger relief in our country.
4.3 Mr President, I would like to reaffirm Lesotho’s appreciation for the identification of poverty reduction,  especially abject poverty, as one of the cross-cutting themes in the current Medium-Term Strategy for 2002-2007,  because these go right to the heart of survival of most countries in sub-Saharan Africa, where poverty and food  insecurity continue to be serious threats.
4.4 Mr President, the HIV/AIDS pandemic has also become a serious challenge to the people of Lesotho and a  threat to the very existence of their nation. Political commitment to fighting the pandemic is very strong in Lesotho, and  serious efforts are being made to couple that will with sound, coordinated strategies to fight the disease and contain the  ravages of its impact on society, especially the large number of orphaned children who have suddenly become heads of  households, with huge responsibilities for taking care of their siblings, in the harsh environment of poor harvests,  hunger and poverty. In this respect, Lesotho is very appreciative of the training programme to provide education to  orphans and vulnerable children initiated by UNESCO in Angola, Lesotho, Namibia and South Africa, within the  framework of the UNESCO funds-in-trust project. This is a commendable effort by UNESCO to empower communities
100  to deal with HIV-related challenges. However, this programme, which is crucial to the building of resilience in orphans  and vulnerable children, could benefit from more resources in order for it to be provided on a larger scale.
4.5 Mr President, although I talked about HIV/AIDS above, the impact of this pandemic on the education sector  warrants a special mention. An impact assessment recently carried out by the Ministry of Education and Training in  collaboration with UNICEF and Ireland Aid has revealed that Lesotho is losing teachers at an alarming rate, including  trained teachers, para-professionals and teachers in training. Lesotho therefore needs to intensify the use of distance  education methods, and to reform the curriculum in order to adequately address these challenges. The use of  information and communication technologies in education would also help, not only to bridge the digital divide, but to  increase access to schoolchildren in remote, inaccessible parts of Lesotho, where even ordinarily the demand for  teachers far exceeds the supply.
4.6 Mr President, Lesotho continues to be committed to the implementation of the Millennium Development  Goals as well as the EFA goals of the Dakar Framework for Action. The free primary education programme, which is in  its fourth year of implementation, is a clear indication of this commitment. By the year 2006 primary education will be  completely free. This programme has increased access to primary education for Basotho children; the primary net  enrolment ratio has increased from 68% in 1999 to 85% in 2002. However, Lesotho still has a lot to do to address the  issues of quality and the extension of free education to the secondary level. The school feeding programme at primary  school level in developing countries such as Lesotho has become an increasingly crucial aspect, which cannot be  ignored by all concerned in the provision of universal primary education. The one meal children receive at school may  well be the only sustenance they have for the rest of the day.
4.7 Mr President, Lesotho is committed to sustainable development and associates itself with the follow-up to the  World Summit on Sustainable Development in South Africa, as well as to the principle of tapping alternative sources of  energy such as solar energy, which we have in abundance in Africa. This would also curb the practice of felling trees  and cutting shrubs for fuel, and facilitate conservation, which is so badly needed in our countries. Joint bilateral  conservation projects by neighbouring Member States would be to the benefit of all concerned and would send a strong  message to our people that conservation is a serious matter.
4.8 Lesotho appreciates UNESCO’s association with and support for the New Partnership for Africa’s  Development (NEPAD) – an initiative of the African Heads of State and Government that affirms the will of African  leaders to deal with the challenges facing our continent; an initiative which, however, requires global support for it to  succeed.
4.9 Mr President, before I round up my intervention, I would like to make a comment on the “cluster” policy.  Closer collaboration between cluster offices and National Commissions for UNESCO, and among National  Commissions themselves, is desirable and worthy of support. The practice initiated by some cluster offices – such as the  Windhoek Office, to which Lesotho belongs – of meeting to share ideas, plan together and identify priorities common  to all cluster Member States can only bode well for better coordination, transparency and equity in the distribution of  resources for projects in the various cluster Member States – projects which will also promote UNESCO’s visibility in  those countries. It is therefore crucial for the cluster offices to be provided with the resources they require to perform  their tasks, for instance a full staff complement in UNESCO’s fields of competence and funds to implement projects in  Member States.
4.10 Lastly, Lesotho welcomes the real growth scenario of US $610 million, which will provide an additional  US $34 million to strategic areas such as improving the quality of education under Major Programme I, Education, and  the promotion of human rights under Major Programme III, Social and Human Sciences. It is my hope that the  additional resources will facilitate the establishment of more UNESCO Chairs in peace and human rights in the  universities of Member States, such as the one requested by the national university of Lesotho – our only institution of  higher learning. This Chair would promote peace and democracy in our land. I thank you, Mr President.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and congratulations on the important initiatives you are taking in  your country. Our next speaker is the honourable Minister of Education of Nigeria.
6.1 Mr OSUJI (Nigeria):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  of UNESCO, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, it gives me great pleasure to be here today to address the
32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I bring you special greetings and best wishes from President  Olusegun Obasanjo, the Government and the entire people of Nigeria, most especially today, the 43rd anniversary of  the independence of our great nation. I also extend best wishes to the Republic of China which shares the same national
101  day with us. Mr President, permit me also to express our warm congratulations to you on your election to the high office  of President of the General Conference of UNESCO. Having regard to your wealth of experience both within UNESCO  and in international circles, as well as your proven leadership skills, Nigeria is assured that you will bring these same  skills and wisdom to bear on the work of this General Conference. We note, with great pride, satisfaction and gratitude,  the honour done to Nigeria and Africa by the distinguished delegates, by electing one of our eminent sons to steer the  course of this session. We are pleased at the cooperation and determination of all to work towards the achievement of  the noble goals of the Conference. We salute you, Mr Director-General, for the indefatigable and excellent manner in  which you have directed the work of UNESCO in the light of its mandate and in conformity with the aspirations of  Member States. Nigeria heartily congratulates the United States of America and President Bush as we welcome them  back to UNESCO.
6.2 Mr President, when we met two years ago, the world was trying to recover from the shock of the tragic  events of 11 September. Today as we meet again, the global threats of terrorism, conflict, cruelty and bloodbaths, of  extreme inequalities, of illiteracy, hunger and disease, and of the HIV/AIDS pandemic have produced even more  challenges. In fact, we have witnessed the emergence of new flashpoints of conflict, new forms of terrorism, a  retrogression into military dictatorships, especially in Africa, and the ugly emergence of contemporary forms of slavery  and human trafficking. The mandate of our great Organization, to create peace in the minds of men, is at this time more  pertinent than ever before. For without peace there can be no development or prosperity.
6.3 Nigeria notes with satisfaction and supports the reform process which the Director-General embarked upon  on his assumption of office. Nigeria is concerned, however, that in the anxiety to rationalize clusters, the legitimate  needs of national offices, including those of the E-9 countries, should not be jeopardized. We welcome and support the  proposals in the Programme and Budget (32 C/5), which seems to have enhanced the necessary programme  concentration, broadened the reform process and consolidated the gains of the past.
6.4 Mr President, in order to achieve the goals which the Member States have set for UNESCO, and after  operating with zero nominal growth budgets for three consecutive biennia, the time has come to reverse this creeping  reduction in the real value of the budget to avoid emasculating the core capacities of the Organization by diminishing its  ability to fulfil the expectations of its Member States. Nigeria therefore supports the ideal scenario, with a budget  ceiling of US $610 million, which is based on the latest state of UNESCO’s universality and will not only bring  financial relief to the membership of the Organization but also give additional regular funds to the core programme  activities and reinforce the concentration, rationalization and decentralization of programme activities.
6.5 Nigeria also supports the priority which UNESCO accords to education, with the core purpose of achieving  education for all (EFA), at all levels and throughout life. While Nigeria remains committed to attaining the six EFA  goals set in Dakar in 2000, the challenges to implementing the EFA process have been many. In a bid to ensure that the  EFA National Action Plan (NAP) is fully participatory and meets international guidelines, the planning process in our  country has incorporated inputs from key stakeholders at all levels of government and from our partners in civil society,  while ensuring the inclusion of our Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which is to be fully integrated into the  national macroeconomic plan.
6.6 A major obstacle in the universal basic education process in Nigeria has been removed by the passing of the  Universal Basic Education Bill by the National Assembly. The bill provides for the intervention of the Federal  Government in basic education through assistance to states and local governments to ensure uniform and high quality  basic education throughout Nigeria. In regard to girls’ education, my Ministry has launched a special programme in  collaboration with UNICEF towards achieving EFA Goals 5 and 6.
6.7 Mr President, Nigeria is happy to report its successful hosting of the Second High-Level Group Meeting on  EFA and is taking measures to address identified gaps and prepare for effective participation in the Third High-Level  Group Meeting later this year. The major challenge will be the funding of the resource gaps at both the national and  international levels. Nigeria is concerned that the Fast Track Initiative (FTI), led by the World Bank, has lacked the  genuine commitment to actual funding that is essential to the operationalization of the financing framework. Just as  national governments must be committed to producing credible National Action Plans on EFA, the international  community should fulfil the promises, made at the Dakar and Monterrey meetings, to provide resources for funding  gaps.
6.8 Among the major achievements recorded in the EFA support systems in Nigeria are the Federal Teachers’  Corps and the Pivotal Teacher Training Programme (PTTP), a short-term distance learning intervention geared towards  producing 30,000 primary school teachers every year from 2000 to 2005. The Virtual Library project for higher  education institutions is expected to address the severe dearth of core academic course materials for teaching, learning  and research purposes. It should also have a positive impact on the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN),
102  which admitted its first intake this year. In this regard, Nigeria would like to commend UNESCO for the endowment of  a Chair on distance education at the Open University in November 2002.
6.9 As the regional Chair for EFA, Nigeria has deployed an officer to the Regional Office for Education in  Africa in Dakar to support the consultation and monitoring of the EFA process. The successful presentation of
36 National Action Plans at MINEDAF VIII is noteworthy. These are currently being reviewed and synthesized to  enable financing. Within the framework of the E-9 initiative, Nigeria and Brazil have signed a Memorandum of  Understanding for Educational and Cultural Cooperation, an important step in the development of South-South  cooperation. On HIV/AIDS preventive education, UNESCO should assist Nigeria in establishing a chair for monitoring  the process of HIV control.
6.10 Nigeria recognizes the importance of water in national development, and will increase access to potable  water from the present 57% to 80% by 2007. It notes with satisfaction the pivotal role of UNESCO in regard to  emerging ethical challenges in the field of bioethics and human genetics. UNESCO should utilize African as well as  other professionals in preparing programmes and projects to ensure the ownership of such programmes. Nigeria also  supports the cultural diversity programme of UNESCO, especially as it concerns the intangible cultural heritage. It is  hoping to develop cultural tourism around existing relics of the slave trade and the subregional mapping of slave routes  from Nigeria through the Republic of Benin, Togo, Ghana and the Gambia. Thank you very much for your attention.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and congratulations on the celebration of your country’s  independence anniversary. It is now my pleasure to invite the honourable Minister of Education of Mexico to the  rostrum.
(8.1) Mr TAMEZ GUERRA (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):  Mr Michael Abiola Omolewa, President of the General Conference of UNESCO at its 32nd session,  Ms Aziza Bennani, Chairperson of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished Ministers and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to take part in this general  policy debate at the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. First of all, I should like to join in the welcome  extended to Timor-Leste on the occasion of its entry to this Organization and to the United States of America on its return  to UNESCO.
(8.2) The Education for All Global Monitoring Report 2002 sets out before us the great challenge of acquiring  more efficient national, regional and international educational institutions and this debate provides an excellent  opportunity for discussing UNESCO’s responsibilities in this respect. This is a good occasion to define the priorities of  each of the Organization’s sectors on a realistic basis that will enable the Member States to act in a responsible manner to  ensure that UNESCO possesses the human and financial capacities and the infrastructure to enable it to respond rapidly  and effectively to the challenges that arise. Mexico applauds the actions of Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. In the decentralization  process within the Organization, we welcome the evaluation of the field offices and underscore the need for them to  provide effective support for the priorities of the Member States and of course that they receive the necessary resources to  do so.
(8.3) Mexico is going through a transition process which requires a continuous renovation of its institutions. It is  the conviction of the Mexican Government, headed by President Fox, that education is the backbone of this  transformation. Thirty-three years ago, the average period of school attendance in Mexico was little more than three years.  Today it is 7.8 years. However, despite such progress, some of those on lower incomes still lag behind. It is obvious too
104  that new challenges have arisen, created by emerging problems of our time, which the population as a whole must  confront. In order to take advantage of the available opportunities, Mexico initiated three years ago a new social policy  strategy called “Contigo” (“with you”). This public policy operates simultaneously on four complementary fronts:  capacity-building, productive options, the heritage and social welfare networks – which all in turn depend on education.  The four fronts of “Contigo” are a structured response to the specific needs of individuals from birth to old age. The  strategy is cumulative: it provides continuous learning based on joint responsibility, in which each person is the  protagonist of his own development, and it operates in conjunction with the economic policy through various social  benefits, so that all these combined inputs operate as a stimulant of growth.
(8.4) We are also proud of our human development programme “Opportunities”, which began six years ago and  covers 4.2 million families, who represent 80% of the people living under the breadline. It encompasses education, health  and nutrition, and includes study grants; its results, verified by a rigorous evaluation, suggest that 14% of the boys and
18% of the girls who used to drop out of primary school now stay in school thanks to the programme.
(8.5) Mexico’s National Education Programme 2001-2006 shares the vision set out in Dakar in its concern to take  the fullest possible advantage of the resources available, with a view to achieving “quality education for all”. Attaining  this goal will depend to a large extent on the twin commitment of devising technical and financial multilateral  cooperation policies that give greater expectations that educational goals will be achieved. The Mexican Government’s  educational strategy consists of three elements: wider and fairer coverage, high-quality public educational services and  permanent evaluation, both in order to assess results and to monitor and ensure quality, and all this in the context of  coordinating a shift from centralism to federalism. Basic education is provided for over 24 million pupils, primary school  enrolment stands at 93.1% and enrolment in secondary schools at 85.6%. The eradication of illiteracy has shown  satisfactory progress, with illiteracy falling from 12% in 1990 to 8.8% this year.
(8.6) We are aware that the country’s development inevitably depends on overcoming factors of backwardness.  With over 50 indigenous languages and 180,000 isolated communities, the challenge facing us is to achieve quality  education for all. The Ministry of Public Education produces over 220 million free textbooks, which include 55 editions  in indigenous languages, in addition to Spanish, with a view to achieving bilingual intercultural education. We have made  progress in the effective use of the new information and communication technologies as a means of extending the  coverage and raising the quality of education. We have a satellite-based education network that enables us to offer  programmes through the Internet and distance education comprising a series of programmes that have been progressively  consolidated and now reach the most remote and inaccessible communities in the country. One of our new projects is the  multimedia programme “Enciclomedia”, designed to use free textbooks in conjunction with computers in the classroom;  this programme will provide a bridge between traditional teaching and the new technologies in each of the over 800,000  classrooms of the school system, each one of which will be provided with a computer.
(8.7) In accordance with the principles of solidarity and horizontal cooperation between nations, during the last  meeting of the Ministers of Education of the Organization of American States (OAS), which Mexico hosted for that  organization’s 34 Member States, we signed a Mexico-OAS agreement under which we have made available the free use  of the Mexican Edustat network for strictly educational purposes to all the countries of the Americas. In addition to these  initiatives, the “quality schools” programme is principally intended to improve the quality of learning, guarantee equality  of opportunities, promote participatory institutional management and encourage the democratization of school life. This  programme now covers 20% of students in public schools at the primary and secondary levels.
(8.8) International solidarity is a powerful factor in encouraging political, economic and social development.  Mexico will continue to invest in the strengthening of international networks and institutions so as to build a better world.  Today, in this plenary meeting of the General Conference – the most important world forum for education, science and  culture – Mexico, as President of the OAS Inter-American Committee on Education and as an active member of  UNESCO, reiterates the appeal to all the other brother countries of the world, to the organizations of international  cooperation and to the organizations of civil society for us to form new alliances so as to promote quality education for  all. Thank you very much.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, and good luck on the initiatives your country is taking. I would now  like to invite the honourable Minister of Education of Malaysia to the rostrum.
10.1 Mr MUSA MOHAMAD (Malaysia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, may I  first of all congratulate you, Mr President, on your election as President of the General Conference of UNESCO. I have  no doubt that, under your able guidance and leadership, the objectives of this Conference will be fully realized. Our  appreciation goes to the Director-General and the Secretariat for all their tireless efforts in preparing for this  Conference. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome our newest members, Timor-Leste and the United  States of America, to UNESCO. Their membership will undoubtedly enhance the status of UNESCO as a worldwide  organization committed to the achievement of global peace and development.
10.2 Mr President, since its establishment 57 years ago, UNESCO has made concerted efforts towards achieving  the twin goals of global peace and human development by advancing the educational, scientific and cultural relations of  the people of the world. However, in spite of all these efforts, the world today has become a more dangerous and violent  place to live in. The 11 September incident, the Afghanistan war and Iraq war, the Bali bombing, the JW Marriot  Jakarta bombing and the continuing Chechnya and Palestinian conflicts are but grim reminders that our goal of building  a workable global framework for peace and prosperity for all remains as elusive as ever. The fact that UNESCO has  been reduced to a mere witness to many conflicts and wilful destructions, despite all its contributions to peace and  human development, is an indication that we have not as yet been successful in building a strong foundation for peace,  and that we must do more.
10.3 Mr President, the foundation for peace and prosperity is built in the mind. Education, no doubt, has a lot to  do with building that state of mind. Besides, education nurtures human potential, develops vital skills for social  cohesion and enhances respect for human dignity, peace and justice. In fact, education is so vital for peace and human  development, and for promoting socio-economic progress, that many countries place great importance on education in  their national agenda. UNESCO, too, has long promoted education as part of its mission and encourages stronger  alliances in education, meaningful partnerships and effective collaboration among Member States. The Dakar  Framework for Action to promote education for all (EFA) is one serious attempt by UNESCO to ensure that education  is seen more as a right and not just a privilege.
10.4 However, the provision of education is as much an issue of quality and equity as of quantity. The need for  quality education in every Member State has never been more greatly felt, for quality education has a direct impact on  the economic growth and development of a country and its ability to compete in a globalized world. And if the  disparities in quality education between Member States cannot be overcome, then there is less hope that the new  globalized world will bring peace and prosperity to all mankind. There will always be a shared concern and wariness  among less developed and less powerful countries which are often not as well endowed with quality education that  globalization will lead to an eventual erosion of their own socio-cultural and economic integrity. It would then be  ironical that globalization, which is purported to encourage increasing migration, cultural exchanges and convergence  of our economic development pathways, will in the end lead to an emergence of more divergent national agendas.
10.5 Today globalization has indeed purveyed fresh opportunities but it has also highlighted the unevenness in the  provision of quality education between the rich and poor countries. This ironic twist in events has placed new demands  on the already resource-strapped education systems of the latter. These poor countries find themselves in a no-win  situation. They are indirectly forced to accelerate their own growth but, given the economic challenges that they face,  they are unable to keep up with the progress of their richer neighbours. This chasm between nations can continue to  widen if left unattended.
10.6 For this reason, I am most appreciative of UNESCO’s commendable initiative in organizing the Ministerial  Round Table on Quality Education from 3 to 4 October. I am confident that the discussions and exchange of views  among ministers of education, intellectuals and decision-makers from all regions of the world will prove to be fruitful  and effective and that UNESCO’s future programmes and activities would be more geared to attaining the goals set out  to achieve quality education in all Member States.
10.7 Mr President, UNESCO has a wide mission. Focusing its mind on one issue should not be accompanied by a  concomitant neglect of other issues that tend to threaten UNESCO’s basic purpose of promoting peace and human  development in all it forms. In this increasingly unipolar world, there is a tendency to overextend one’s concept of right  and wrong irrespective of cultural differences which UNESCO recognizes. There is also a tendency to overextend the  rules when clearly they favour the rich and powerful, although they may seem to amount to fair competition. There is a  further tendency to replace sharing, which UNESCO promotes, with unilateral actions that disregard the plight of those  who are less able and less fortunate. Even in education, the poor are made to pay huge sums they can ill afford to seek  knowledge and skills which they cannot obtain at home, whereas not so long ago the generosity of the more endowed  was more prevalent. There is much “uncertainty and fear” in the world today, as Dr Mahathir, the Prime Minister of  Malaysia, put it in his address to the United Nations General Assembly on 25 September 2003. I urge UNESCO,  therefore, to take cognizance of these issues and all other issues that tend to retard the promotion of peace and human  development throughout the globe. UNESCO must remain true to its mission for the future of mankind. Thank you.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your refreshing statement.  (The President continues in French)
11.2 Je donne maintenant la parole à la Ministre de la culture, de l’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche du  Luxembourg.
12.1 Mme HENNICOT-SCHOEPGES (Luxembourg) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale. Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, Excellences, honorables délégués, comme les orateurs qui  m’ont précédée, je voudrais vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre brillante élection à la tête de la 32e session de  la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO. Je suis convaincue que vous saurez diriger les travaux de cette Conférence avec  l’autorité mêlée de diplomatie et de sagesse que requiert votre fonction.
12.2 Cette session de la Conférence générale sera aussi celle d’un retour à l’universel, puisque les États-Unis  redeviennent membre de notre Organisation. C’est une évolution encourageante qui permettra, j’en suis sûre, de  renforcer le multilatéralisme et élargira les bases sur lesquelles nous nous efforcerons de construire la confiance  mutuelle. Le Luxembourg se félicite de ce retour et adresse ses meilleurs vœux au nouveau membre. Que les États-Unis  soient assurés de notre coopération. Nous nous réjouissons aussi que notre Organisation puisse compter désormais sur la  participation du Timor-Leste, nouvel État membre dont la contribution nous apportera beaucoup et que nous félicitons  pour son engagement et sa persévérance.
12.3 Monsieur le Directeur général, je me rappelle avec le plus grand plaisir votre visite au Luxembourg. Ce fut  une étape essentielle pour notre pays et une marque d’intérêt qui a grandement honoré notre pays et renforcé les  relations, déjà excellentes, entre l’UNESCO et le Luxembourg. Votre visite constituait un cadre opportun pour  officialiser, préparer ou envisager un certain nombre de projets communs comme par exemple : la signature d’un accord  de coopération avec le Mali concernant la conservation des manuscrits de Tombouctou ; l’octroi d’un soutien financier  du Luxembourg au projet de formation aux droits humains, à la citoyenneté et à la démocratie locale au Sénégal, au  Mali et au Burkina Faso ; l’inauguration imminente du « petit pont » de Mostar, restauré grâce à un projet lancé dans le  cadre d’une coopération par notre Commission nationale et réalisé avec le concours de notre Service des sites et  monuments ; la création, proposée par la Commission nationale luxembourgeoise, d’une chaire UNESCO « Droits de  l’homme et éducation à la paix » au sein de la nouvelle Université de Luxembourg ; et l’inscription de l’exposition  « Family of man », du photographe d’origine luxembourgeoise Edward Steichen, au registre de la Mémoire du monde,  inscription qui a fait l’objet depuis d’une recommandation favorable. À cet égard, je vous remercie dès à présent,  Monsieur le Directeur général, de votre accord pour que cette inscription devienne formelle et définitive à cette session  de la Conférence générale. Enfin, l’exposition, lors de cette Conférence, d’un circuit culturel pour les handicapés de la  vue, à laquelle j’invite tous les délégués. Je suis également persuadée, Monsieur le Directeur général, que vous saurez  réaffirmer et renforcer la mission intellectuelle et éthique de l’UNESCO, principale enceinte internationale où relever  les grands défis du monde actuel dans les domaines de l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication.
12.4 Notre Organisation doit être celle où se rencontrent les porte-parole de la bonne volonté, les porte-parole de  l’engagement international en faveur de la propagation des droits de la personne humaine et du refus de la violence. Il  appartient à la communauté des nations de faire en sorte qu’aucun mouvement partisan ne fasse usage de la violence à  des fins terroristes. Dans ce contexte, l’action de l’UNESCO doit mettre l’accent sur l’éducation à la fraternité.
12.5 Dans cette optique, j’ai tout particulièrement à cœur la question de l’élaboration d’un instrument juridique  international concernant la diversité culturelle, sans toutefois vouloir entrer dans les détails ni souligner les difficultés  de sa réalisation. Encore faudra-t-il bien réfléchir aux objectifs majeurs de ce qui devrait prendre la forme, à l’horizon
2005, d’une convention internationale, qui formerait le cadre d’une approche culturelle au niveau mondial, respectueuse  des politiques nationales en la matière, tout en poursuivant quelques objectifs communs. Parmi ces objectifs, je verrais,  sans idée de hiérarchie : premièrement la sauvegarde de la diversité culturelle, qui constitue une fin en soi, car il y va  d’un patrimoine irremplaçable, dont chaque partie perdue appauvrit irrémédiablement l’humanité ; ensuite la promotion  des cultures vivantes et de la capacité créatrice, comme antidotes aux risques d’une uniformisation culturelle et  linguistique ; la reconnaissance de la spécificité des biens culturels qui ne peuvent être simplement assimilés aux  catégories économiques régies par les lois du marché ; et enfin la prise en compte accrue de la dimension culturelle dans  le domaine de la coopération et du développement. Enfin, il ne faut pas oublier que la sauvegarde et la promotion de la  diversité culturelle pourront constituer un puissant facteur de compréhension internationale et de paix.
12.6 Je me réjouis également de constater que l’élaboration d’un nouvel instrument normatif pour la sauvegarde  du patrimoine culturel immatériel est très avancée et je me souviens de votre engagement, Monsieur le Directeur  général, à la réunion d’Istanbul, où s’est préparée la présentation de l’avant-projet de convention à la présente session  de la Conférence générale. Je souhaite, dans ce contexte, que le Luxembourg puisse en 2007 obtenir le label de  l’UNESCO pour une manifestation très ancienne, la procession dansante d’Echternach, intimement liée à notre histoire  et à notre identité culturelle.
12.7 Je ne voudrais pas passer sous silence le rôle éminent que l’UNESCO aura à jouer dans le futur sommet sur  la société de l’information et, à ce sujet, je voudrais faire une mise en garde. L’UNESCO devra avoir à cœur de retenir  la bonne terminologie et se méfier des assimilations fallacieuses. L’information n’est pas un but en soi. Trop  d’information tue l’information. Et surtout, l’information n’est pas assimilable au savoir et encore moins à la  connaissance, qui est le savoir maîtrisé, intégré dans une vision d’ensemble, scientifique ou philosophique, et qui a pour  but le bien-être de l’homme, lié à l’avenir de notre planète. Les problèmes de la société de l’information ne doivent pas  nous faire oublier la nécessité de poursuivre sans relâche la lutte contre l’analphabétisme, ni le rôle éminent des femmes  dans ce combat. Car l’analphabétisme est la première cause de toute fracture numérique et le principal obstacle à un  accès équitable à l’information et au savoir.
12.8 Enfin je soulignerai, pour terminer, le rôle éminent de l’UNESCO dans les grands dossiers éthiques de notre  époque et je salue l’action de notre Directeur général, qui rejoint tout à fait l’esprit de la mission fondatrice de  l’UNESCO qu’il définit comme « le lieu, par excellence, où des cultures, des conceptions du monde, des convictions  religieuses très différentes peuvent se rencontrer pour tenter de trouver un terrain d’entente, un cadre de référence  éthique, sur lequel tout le monde puisse s’accorder ». Je vous remercie de votre attention.
(14.1) Mr BENBOUZID (Algeria) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  of UNESCO, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be with you, representing my country Algeria, at  the 32nd session of the Conference. I hope that my contribution to the general policy debate will be helpful, and I am  certain that the debate will be wide-ranging and profitable. Algeria warmly welcomes the return of the United States of  America to our esteemed organization, an event which heralds greater effectiveness in the field of education, the training  of future generations and their advancement to cultural and social modernity. We also welcome the admission of Timor- Leste to UNESCO.
(14.2) Ladies and gentlemen, while critical questions connected with our education systems, the promotion of  culture and the development of science and technology have always been posed in the history of humanity, the issue of  globalization requires us today to provide a rapid response to more important problems. It goes without saying that each  and everyone of us understands the significance and complexity of globalization, which affects the future of humanity as  a whole. Thus, if we take account of the social and cultural disparities that persist in today’s world, and the need not to  aggravate them in order to preserve peace on our planet, it seems to me that efforts to ensure conditions for greater  international solidarity are of great importance, both in the economic and social fields and in the education system, which  must have access to the tools of educational modernization and efficiency.
(14.3) The new millennium, as we know, is propelling humanity along paths the consequences of which are  occasionally considered – we must admit – as uncertain. Although the globalization of human values entails, at least in  theory, great hopes for peace and prosperity in the world, at the same time it opens the way to huge challenges which  could have disastrous consequences if not approached with a concern for solidarity and equity in relation to humanity as a  whole. It would appear that the heads of State of Africa and the Maghreb have taken on board the strategic importance of  the challenges facing the new world and have approached them with all due seriousness. In the same context, the advent  of NEPAD represents, without a doubt, for Africa a historic acknowledgement of the importance of the continent’s future
109  and the need for it to take control of its destiny. In this regard, I must thank UNESCO for its significant support in this  important partnership, which sustains many great hopes for the African continent, of which Algeria is an inalienable part.  Thus, Algeria welcomes the recommendations made recently by the Ouagadougou seminar, which was held in March
(14.4) Ladies and gentlemen, you know that Algeria has paid a heavy price for terrorism and, logically therefore,  comprehends its tragic effects on peace among peoples. It thus goes without saying that my country opposes violence and  terrorism and works tirelessly to inculcate tolerance and freedom in all parts of the world. In our view, the instruction of  the younger generations in the values of modern citizenship is the best way of extirpating violence and fanaticism among  people. The education of children in a culture of democracy and sound attitudes to co-existence and tolerance among  cultures and religions, and the acceptance of other people with all their differences, remains a choice for society which  Algeria is resolutely trying to make and to apply. Thus, Algeria has begun an important project, starting with the present  school year, to reform its education system. This project is not just the consequence of mere technical proposals adopted  by administrative and political structures. On the contrary, it is the result of methodical efforts, the outcome of the  multidisciplinary work carried out by the National Commission for the reform of the education system, mandated by His  Excellency Mr Abdelaziz Bouteflika, President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria. This reform, which is  both educational and structural at one and the same time, attaches great importance to the use of modern communication  and information technologies, and is introducing the early learning of modern languages from the second year of school.  Then there is the subject of cultural and linguistic diversity in Algeria, now that under the Constitution the Amazigh  language has become a national language which is taught in our schools and universities. The reform of the education  system being undertaken by the Algerian Government accords an important place to the teaching of universal cultural  values – civics, democratic culture and human rights, especially children’s and women’s rights, and to environmental  education and protection of the ecosystem in general.
(14.5) I should like to draw your attention to the earthquake of 21 May of this year, which was responsible for the  death of thousands of people, as you all know, and caused considerable material damage to school buildings and facilities  in the areas affected. Algeria has consequently begun to study natural disasters in general and earthquakes in particular,  and to include these topics in school curricula. I should like to take the opportunity, in this setting, to express to  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General of UNESCO, my sincere gratitude and respect, and to convey to him the  appreciation of the Algerian State for the programme of technical assistance that he has provided in connection with the  reform of the education system in Algeria.
(14.6) Ladies and gentlemen, Algeria endorses all the initiatives taken by UNESCO in relation to the reconstruction  of Iraq, and welcomes the aid programme that has been agreed. UNESCO’s efforts in this direction must be stepped up  today, and attention should be devoted to the children of Palestine and Iraq, who are suffering as a result of war and the  loss of hope. In the light of this common determination to work together to strengthen peace and brotherhood in the world,  education for living together and human solidarity has become an absolute necessity. It is appropriate to recall in this  context the words recited aloud by children in the Associated Schools: “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of children that the defences of peace must be constructed”. That is the price of peace in the world. I should like to  thank all those present for their attention and I wish the Conference every success.
15. Le PRÉSIDENT :  Je vous remercie. Je donne maintenant la parole au Ministre de l’enseignement secondaire et de l’éducation  de base de Madagascar.
16.1 M. RAZAFINDRANDRIANTSIMANIRY (Madagascar) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, honorables délégués, Mesdames,  Messieurs, c’est pour moi un honneur et un immense plaisir que de représenter mon pays à la tête de la délégation  malgache et je me réjouis de pouvoir prendre la parole, en son nom, devant cette auguste assemblée. Permettez-moi tout  d’abord de féliciter chaleureusement S. E. M. Omolewa pour son élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale et  de saluer le retour des États-Unis  et l’arrivée du Timor-Leste dans notre Organisation.
16.2 Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la dernière session de la Conférence générale, beaucoup d’eau a  coulé sous les ponts et Madagascar s’est doté d’un nouveau régime, ce qui signifie une nouvelle politique et de  nouvelles orientations. Étant donné l’importance de cette session, nous aimerions  lui apporter notre contribution en  exprimant nos convictions, nos soucis, et surtout nos espoirs devant cette assemblée qui, nous le croyons, en tiendra  compte dans ses recommandations finales.
16.3 Une des idées fortes que le gouvernement malgache entend concrétiser est de faire valoir un ensemble de  valeurs, d’attitudes et de comportements qui traduisent le respect de la vie, de la personne humaine, de sa dignité et de  ses droits. Nous sommes décidés à en finir avec la pauvreté. Le Gouvernement malgache s’est engagé à mettre en œuvre  une politique visant à réduire la pauvreté de moitié d’ici 10 ans. Il a désigné l’éducation comme le facteur clé dans le  processus de développement et en a fait l’une des priorités nationales.
16.4 Cette volonté d’aller de l’avant, nous l’avons traduite, tout d’abord par l’adoption d’une nouvelle politique  éducative tournée vers l’apprentissage de la vie afin de contribuer au développement rapide et durable du pays par la  formation de citoyens et de cadres, responsables et compétents. L’éducation, par le bagage culturel et les compétences  qu’elles offrira aux jeunes, multipliera leurs chances d’échapper à la pauvreté. Nous voulons ainsi mettre en place une  éducation de base de qualité et en faire bénéficier tous les Malgaches d’ici à 2015, et ce dans le respect des six objectifs  de Dakar. Cette éducation de qualité inclut le sport que nous développons déjà au sein de nos établissements, en  organisant chaque année entre eux des compétitions sportives à l’échelle nationale. Formés à la discipline dès l’enfance,  les jeunes n’auront pas recours au dopage pour accroître leurs performances.
16.5 Nous nous efforçons ensuite de préserver et promouvoir notre patrimoine culturel, matériel et immatériel, par  une éducation systématique de la population. Nous sommes convaincus, en effet, qu’une acculturation risque de  produire des êtres hybrides sans racines et sans repères, donc facilement ballottés par les vents du progrès et de la  modernité.
16.6 Il s’agit enfin pour nous de raffermir la vraie démocratie en renforçant l’État de droit par une bonne  gouvernance, un accès équitable à l’information et une circulation fluide de cette information en utilisant toutes les  possibilités offertes par les technologies de l’information et de la communication pour transférer des connaissances,  programmer les formations, administrer et gérer l’éducation en vue d’améliorer la qualité et l’efficacité de  l’enseignement et du système éducatif en général. Nous nous engageons à sortir des sentiers battus, où l’éducation n’est  qu’un moyen d’accumuler des connaissances. Pour nous, le secteur éducatif doit avoir, tout à la fois, une action  correctrice, préventive et formatrice en particulier devant ce fléau mondial qu’est le VIH/sida.
16.7 Nous réaffirmons solennellement notre attachement aux principes des Nations Unies pour la défense des  droits fondamentaux de l’homme, ainsi qu’aux engagements internationaux auxquels Madagascar a souscrit, tels que le  NEPAD, le Plan d’application du Sommet mondial pour le développement durable, les objectifs de développement du  Millénaire. Dans ce cadre nous nous proposons de mettre en œuvre un plan stratégique de développement et de réforme  du système éducatif dont un volet, le Plan d’action national « Éducation pour tous », est en cours de finalisation ; de  redynamiser les structures de formation technique et professionnelle et l’enseignement supérieur pour assurer à tous les  niveaux l’acquisition de compétences utiles au développement ; de renforcer la politique nationale d’alphabétisation et  d’éducation des adultes, en particulier en faveur des femmes ; et de participer à la création d’une synergie globale entre  tous les secteurs du développement national.
16.8 Pour promouvoir la coopération dans ce domaine, nous suggérons d’accroître, dans l’avenir, les échanges  entre pays autour de projets précis en matière d’éducation, de culture ou de recherche scientifique, et de jumelages entre  écoles de façon à favoriser le partage, entre adultes comme entre enfants de différentes nationalités.
16.9 Honorables délégués, notre programme est peut-être ambitieux, mais il est réalisable si vous conjuguer vos  efforts aux nôtres pour soutenir cette volonté malgache d’innover, et pas seulement dans le domaine du savoir et de la  connaissance comme l’a recommandé S. E. M. Ravalomanana, président de la République de Madagascar : « Ensemble,  il faut savoir oser œuvrer efficacement pour un développement rapide et durable du pays. » Le secteur éducatif reste  ainsi l’un des socles du redressement et du développement durable de Madagascar, grâce à une éducation de qualité,  une politique éducative tournée vers l’apprentissage de la vie, une bonne gouvernance et l’utilisation des nouvelles  technologies de l’information et de la communication. Ainsi entendons-nous associer davantage notre pays et le peuple  malgache aux idéaux de l’UNESCO et « promouvoir la paix dans une perspective de confiance en prônant le dialogue  entre les cultures et le développement de chaque individu ».
16.10 Ce dialogue, Monsieur le Président, doit trouver sa source dans la prise de conscience de chacun à travers les  valeurs culturelles qui lui sont propres. Il nous faut préserver notre identité tout en respectant les valeurs des autres  civilisations si nous voulons assurer un développement harmonieux et durable. Dans cette optique, Madagascar a  entrepris de mettre en œuvre une politique dynamique de préservation et de mise en valeur de son patrimoine, dont  l’inscription en 2001 de la Colline royale d’Ambohimanga sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial a marqué une étape  importante. Je saisis cette occasion pour inviter Monsieur le Directeur général à visiter ce site au cours de son prochain  séjour à Madagascar. Vous y serez le bienvenu, Monsieur le Directeur général.
16.11 Monsieur le Président, nous avons compris que l’utilisation à bon escient des ressources culturelles, tel le  respect des traditions ancestrales pour préserver la faune, la flore et même la vie en société, encourage la participation  effective des populations aux projets de développement. C’est donc par conviction que Madagascar a participé à  l’élaboration d’une Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, dont elle soutiendra fermement  l’adoption lors de la présente session. Nous sommes convaincus que si nous faisons des diversités une richesse au lieu  d’un sujet de discorde, nous pourrons aller résolument de l’avant pour améliorer les conditions de vie de l’humanité et  faire régner la paix et l’amour dans le monde entier.
16.12 Monsieur le Président, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous l’avez compris, Madagascar rejoint tout à  fait le projet qui vise à donner à l’UNESCO les moyens d’élaborer, dans un proche avenir, un instrument normatif sur la  diversité culturelle. Mesdames et Messieurs. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.
17.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. Je vous souhaite un plein succès dans l’action que vous menez pour faire face aux  nombreux défis qui se présentent à votre pays.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
17.2 I now wish to invite to the rostrum the distinguished Minister of Education of China.
(18.1) Mr ZHOU Ji (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Distinguished Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, distinguished Mr Director-General, distinguished Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, friends, at the outset, please  allow me to congratulate you, Mr Omolewa, for your election to the presidency of the current session of the General  Conference. I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing president, Mr Jalali, for his outstanding leadership as well as  his contributions to the Organization. I would extend a welcome to the United States of America on its return to  UNESCO and to Timor-Leste, which has just become a member of UNESCO.
(18.2) I am very happy today because it is the National Day of my country. I wholeheartedly wish it everlasting  prosperity. Today is also the National Day of Nigeria, and we would like to extend our congratulations. Let us wish  together for a greater development of UNESCO’s undertakings and join hands for the sake of greater contributions to  humankind.
(18.3) The Chinese Government holds that science and technology constitute a primary productive force, and human  resources are the first resource. Since education is the key to the enduring prosperity of a nation, the strategies of  “reinvigorating the country via science and education” and “making the country strong by relying on talents” must be  implemented. So please allow me to touch upon the topics concerning education, science and culture as well as the role  of UNESCO in the light of developments in implementing the strategy of “reinvigorating the country via science and  technology” by the Chinese Government.
(18.4) First, more attention should be paid to educational development in rural areas. The rapid progress of science  and technology, while accelerating the social development of humanity, increases disparities among countries and  regions, leading to the so-called “civilization divide”, “digital divide” and “development divide”. Since the rural areas  and rural population of developing countries are at the bottom of these “gaps”, it becomes a major task for the  governments of all countries, especially the developing ones, to help the rural areas and the farmers to close the “gap”  through reform and development of rural education. This is also a task of strategic and historic importance for UNESCO.  The Chinese Government has always attached great importance to education in rural areas. Thanks to its unremitting  efforts over decades, the great task of popularizing nine-year compulsory education and eradicating illiteracy among  youth and adults had been accomplished on the whole by the end of the last century. Nine-year compulsory education had  become a reality in areas accounting for 92% of China’s population, and the illiteracy rate among youth and adults had  been brought down to below 5% by the end of 2002. However, we are keenly aware that education in rural areas remains  the weakest part of China’s education system and is not adequate to China’s modernization drive and the expectations of  its people.
(18.5) Last week, the Chinese Government convened, for the first time in its history of education, a national  working conference on education in rural areas. At that conference it was decided to accord priority to rural education in  the social development of the rural areas and to place rural education on top of the education agenda of this government.  The Chinese Government will take strong measures to hasten the progress of rural education. It is also committed to  ensuring that each and every child in rural areas has access to schooling and quality education. China appreciates,  supports and actively participates in UNESCO-launched EFA efforts, including the E-9 initiatives. We hope that more  will be achieved in this area and that EFA goals will be fully attained worldwide when we reach the end of another
15-year journey as envisaged in Dakar.
(18.6) Secondly, it has become the strategic choice for countries to vigorously develop higher education. With the  fast-approaching knowledge economy, higher education is coming more and more to the centre stage of society. The  Chinese Government has put on its agenda realization of the EFA goal and the sustainable, healthy and rapid  development of higher education as two parallel important tasks in its educational work. Since the 1998 World  Conference on Higher Education, China has undergone dramatic changes in its higher education, with its university  enrolment growing from 7.8 million in 1998 to 16 million in 2002. In the coming years, the Chinese Government will  continue to expand the size of its higher education and enhance its quality. Special efforts will be made to build up a  number of high-calibre universities and a closer linkage between higher education, on the one hand, and scientific  innovation, economic growth, cultural development and social progress on the other. UNESCO and other related  international organizations are expected to afford assistance to the development of higher education in the developing  countries. I think the consultation mechanism with the related international organizations and financial bodies established  via the World Conference on Higher Education should continue. The Chinese Government appreciates the creative efforts  made by the Regional Bureau for Education in Asia and the Pacific in helping its Member States develop their higher  education.
(18.7) Thirdly, the ethics of science and technology and the joint action of global scientists in emergencies have  become more urgent than ever. The advances of biological science and technology, especially the application of cloning  technology, have once again brought into the limelight the issue of how scientific knowledge and technology will affect  the future of humanity and other issues related to ethics and morality. It is no doubt most forward-looking of UNESCO to  have set up the World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology, together with other expert  organizations, and to have adopted declarations and conducted the relevant activities. During the SARS outbreak in some  countries and regions several months ago, Chinese medical staff and scientists teamed up with their foreign counterparts  in combating the scourge and rescuing patients. What they did fully demonstrates their commitment and willingness to  make a sacrifice at the critical human junctures. We hope that UNESCO will play a more important role in promoting  cooperation and sharing research results among scientists, and will extend recognition to those who have made great  contributions in this regard. We would also like to suggest that a mechanism and programme be established so as to  enable scientists the world over to take joint action in times of emergency.
(18.8) Fourthly, wide-ranging dialogues among cultures and civilizations need to be reinforced. The history of  humanity has repeatedly shown that exchanges among, understanding of and respect for different cultures and  civilizations will bring about peace and prosperity. China has always believed in the principle of “looking for harmony  without assimilation”. China acknowledges and respects the diversity of cultures and civilizations of the world, and  advocates resolving disputes through peaceful dialogue and cooperation. The 28th session of the World Heritage  Committee is going to be held in Suzou, China, next June. The Chinese Government will spare no effort in making it not  only a successful conference on heritage protection, but also an important occasion for exchanges and dialogues among  different cultures and civilizations.
(18.9) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO is considered to be a laboratory of ideas, a setter of standards,  a builder of capacity and a catalyst for international cooperation. We hope that it will continue to be responsive to the  changes of the times, concentrate its limited resources and render, within its areas of competence, more and better  assistance to its Member States based on their different conditions. We value the constructive role UNESCO has played  in China’s reform and opening up. Here I would like, on behalf of the Chinese Government, to extend our thanks to  UNESCO for its support and assistance to China. We are ready to maintain and expand our sound cooperation with the  Organization and to make new contributions to safeguarding world peace and promoting balanced development among  all regions of the globe. Thank you.
19. The PRESIDENT:  Congratulations, honourable Minister, on the celebration of your country’s National Day, and best wishes for  the future. I would now like to invite the honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs of Croatia to the rostrum.
20.1 Mr PICULA (Croatia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I would like to extend to you, Mr President, my delegation’s sincere  congratulations on your election and wish you every success in performing the tasks of your high office. I should like to  begin with a few words on the reforms that have been introduced in UNESCO. Croatia agrees that these are in line with  our attempts to create a stronger organization more responsive to the global issues which challenge its original mandate  – contributing to peace by promoting cooperation among nations through education, science, culture and  communication. After more than 50 years, UNESCO is facing new challenges, and its longstanding mission to  strengthen respect for universal norms and values has gained new relevance and new dimensions. It is essential for the  Organization to remain open to current trends and to constantly seek to reform itself in order to continue to act in  keeping with best international practices. In this respect Croatia encourages UNESCO to build on existing cooperation  and establish new collaboration with global and regional organizations as well as with States and civil society whose  mandates correspond with this Organization’s vision.
20.2 Croatia attaches great importance to UNESCO’s focus on our region within the context of the dialogue  among civilizations. As an active participant in the ongoing stabilization process and in the development of good- neighbourly relations, Croatia readily promotes cooperation on a bilateral basis as well as within regional forums. To  this end, we are grateful to the Director-General for his organization of two important events, the first in Paris last  spring on the strengthening of cooperation in South-East Europe and the second more recently in Ohrid on Dialogue  among Civilizations for South-Eastern Europe.
20.3 Mr President, in today’s global world, lives are being shaped by three dominant factors: the proliferation of  scientific and technological innovations, the rapid spread and development of information and communication  technologies, and the rapid process of globalization. Nothing is more deeply intertwined with these processes than the  system of education. Education contributes to individual development, it “opens doors” to a better life in which the  individual can play an active and responsible role. A functioning education system is thus crucial for the development  of human capital, which in turn exerts a positive influence on the overall social and economic development of every  country. In the process of harmonizing Croatian legislation with that of the European Union, Croatia’s education system  is currently undergoing structural and substantive reforms. These are oriented towards achieving better quality within  the education system, ensuring access for all, and forging stronger partnerships in the process. The primary goal of the  Croatian education system is to promote creativity, analytical thinking and the application of knowledge in order to  enhance communication and social cohesion and provide qualified people for today’s demanding labour market.
20.4 In the field of natural sciences, the priorities and interests of the Republic of Croatia correspond to  UNESCO’s activities in the fields of ecology and environmental protection, water, land and biodiversity management  strategies, including the revitalization of small islands, for ecological, social and economic sustainability. It should be  pointed out here that Croatia has established its own research projects in all these areas. As to the social and human  sciences, Croatian priorities are closely linked to programmes concerning the promotion of human rights, the  management of social transformations and bioethical issues. In the respect of the latter, my delegation would like to  congratulate UNESCO on the draft international declaration on human genetic data, the adoption of which is to be  discussed during this General Conference. Overall scientific and technological progress in the Republic of Croatia is  viewed as providing a solid foundation for sound decisions and policy-making in response to the global challenges of  sustainable development. To this end, Croatia endeavours to align its activities in the natural, social and human sciences,  and in communication and information technologies more closely to promote regional and international scientific  interaction, in which UNESCO has a decisive role to play.
20.5 The Republic of Croatia is honoured to have some of its cultural monuments and sites included in the World  Heritage List, underscoring the principle that cultural heritage is a key component of identity. At the same time, the  establishment of an international standard-setting instrument on cultural diversity will prove a useful tool for the
115  promotion of cooperation and linkages among the various cultures of the world through UNESCO, ultimately leading to  the preservation of cultural diversity. Croatia fully supports the principles laid down in the Universal declaration on  Cultural Diversity adopted at the 31st session of the General Conference in 2001. Diversity among cultures as a  fundamental element of our different identities is quickly becoming a phenomenon in today’s globalized world. Croatia  for its part has actively participated in both the International Network on Cultural Diversity and the International  Network on Cultural Policies and will be hosting a conference on both networks in Opatija later this month.
20.6 Croatia was actively involved in the drafting process of the international convention for the safeguarding of  the intangible cultural heritage. The intangible heritage requires our protection, because it in turn can ultimately  contribute to sustainable development. To achieve this goal, international cooperation, and in particular support for  local authorities, are crucial. Having experienced firsthand the widespread destruction of Croatian cultural monuments  during the war in the 1990s, Croatia fully supports the adoption of the declaration concerning the intentional destruction  of cultural heritage during this General Conference.
20.7 Croatia is honoured to play host to the Culturelink, a network of networks for research and cooperation in  cultural development, established by UNESCO in 1989. Activities with the network to date have opened up new  horizons of cooperation, linking continents and States through projects in culture and sustainable development.
20.8 Mr President, Croatia is fully aware of UNESCO’s comprehensive mandate, which helps it to produce  significant know-how and valuable pools of knowledge. Focusing on its strengths and its consolidation must be at the  centre of our joint efforts to enable UNESCO to continue to play a key role within the United Nations system as the  lead agency in the areas of education, science, culture and communication. Thank you for your attention.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs of Croatia, and congratulations on the efforts  of your country. I now wish to invite the distinguished Minister for Pre-School Education, Youth Affairs and Adult  Learning of Sweden to the rostrum.
22.1 Ms HALLENGREN (Sweden):  Mr President of the General Conference, dear delegates, I would like to congratulate Mr Michael Omolewa  on his election as President of the General Conference. I also take this opportunity to welcome the return of the United  States of America to UNESCO. We are confident that its contribution to UNESCO will make it a more effective  Organization. Once again UNESCO is a truly global organization and it is now in a better position to bridge differences,  and promote mutual understanding and tolerance. I would also like to express our full support for the statement made by  the European Union.
22.2 “Learning to live together” is easy to say but it is harder to realize. It requires citizens and human beings with  knowledge, tolerance and appreciation of other cultures. Tolerance and respect are the only way to a more peaceful  world. It is evident that this process starts at a very tender age and continues on throughout life in every country, and in  each and every one of us.
22.3 It seems that UNESCO’s mission is the answer we seek for the world today – a world where violence and  needs are growing. For Sweden this has become a desperate and growing need, as in most parts of the world today. For  us, in Sweden, this has become tragically apparent through the murder of our Foreign Minister, Ms Anna Lindh. We can  never accept violence, as it is a sign of lack of respect for freedom, openness and democratic values. To honour Anna  and other victims of violence and oppression we must continue to work even harder for a safe, open and democratic  society in all our countries.
22.4 Mr President, dear delegates, we commend the Director-General and his staff for the work achieved on the  present Programme and Budget. We find it in line with our views. It is clear and in better focus than previous versions.  Among the things we want to see further improved are the links between the Medium-Term Strategy and the biennial  programme. We would also like to see the “expected results” further refined. For this to happen we need to reach  decisions on the reforms of the work of the Executive Board and the General Conference. Together with Denmark and  Iceland, we have presented a draft resolution on this item. We would like to see a small working group deal with this  matter, and we suggest that there should be fewer members of the Executive Board and that the programme and budget  periods should be longer.
22.5 Mr President, UNESCO’s most important task is to serve as lead agency for the education for all (EFA)  process. The global monitoring report “Education for All: Is the world on track?” is very impressive and gives us clear  information on the situation. We believe that UNESCO must enhance its efforts even more. And we are not confident
116  that the 10% budget increase will be sufficient. UNESCO also needs to become much more visible, and work in closer  cooperation with other partners and civil society.
22.6 Sweden – together with the other Nordic countries – has taken an active part in the EFA process. We have  drawn up national plans. We have taken part in subregional meetings together with colleagues from the Baltic States.  And we have also – in the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers – organized meetings to improve cooperation  between the development agencies and ministries of education. The Nordic countries are in the process of signing a  Memorandum of Understanding with UNESCO on support for EFA, promoting joint donor practices and harmonization.
22.7 Over the years UNESCO has played an important role in supporting education for children with special needs,  called “inclusive education”. Even though it is a part of the Dakar goals it is still only vaguely reflected in the Draft  Programme and Budget. We would like to give it higher priority and focus. If we are serious about this, the  formulations must be sharpened and, as always in politics, words must be followed by actions.
22.8 Mr President, UNESCO has been designated lead agency for the promotion of the coming United Nations  Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg,  the Swedish Prime Minister Göran Persson announced the intention to hold an international seminar in Sweden on  education for sustainable development. The conference “Learning to change our world” will take place in Gothenburg  from 4 to 7 May 2004. The conference is the Swedish contribution to the Decade and will, we hope, serve as an input to  the International Conference on Education in Geneva in September 2004.
22.9 In 1998 the Swedish Government, together with UNESCO, organized the Intergovernmental Conference on  Cultural Policies for Development. The result of the Conference was the adoption of the Stockholm Action Plan. A  follow-up meeting with broad participation was held earlier this year. On the agenda for this Conference there is a  proposal for a new convention on cultural diversity. Such a convention would be a strong link to the Stockholm  Conference and the Action Plan. Sweden welcomes this initiative and will take an active part in the work to draft a  convention as soon as possible.
22.10 Mr President, dear delegates, two of UNESCO’s main functions, as described in the Medium-Term Strategy,  are to serve as a laboratory of ideas and to act as a standard-setter. Both functions call for a visible presence and the  active participation of younger people. The Youth Forum was a small step forward. Young people must be a natural part  of the debates in the commissions and during the General Conference. We need their views. By making young people  responsible for decisions, UNESCO will also become relevant to them – they who represent the future. I would  therefore like to conclude by calling on colleagues, heads of delegations, to study closely the report of the Youth Forum  and to instruct their delegations to take the report seriously. Further, I would like to see younger people – of both  genders – included in future national delegations. Young people are the future but also an important part of today’s  society: they need and can contribute to UNESCO’s mission of fostering of peace, tolerance and human development.  Thank you for your attention.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank you Your Excellency, honourable Minister for Pre-School Education, Youth Affairs and  Adult Learning of Sweden, for your important intervention. I now wish to invite the honourable Minister of Higher and  Tertiary Education of Zimbabwe to present his address.
24.1 Mr CHOMBO (Zimbabwe):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to heartily congratulate you, Mr President, on your  well-deserved election to the esteemed office of President of the General Conference at its 32nd session. Your own  track record, Mr President, both in UNESCO and in the fields of UNESCO’s competence – particularly in the field of  education – reassures us that you will competently steer us in our work. We also note with appreciation the  commendable work carried out by your predecessor. Mr President, Zimbabwe adds its voice to all those who have  welcomed into the family of nations the United States of America and Timor-Leste.
24.2 Mr President, what marked the 31st session of the General Conference was that it was held in the shadow of  the terrible events of 11 September 2001. Once again, we are under the dark shadow of a world in conflict. However,  the difference between the 11 September events and the situation today is that, whereas then the world spoke with one  voice, now – as the United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan mourns – the world is divided. As a means of  restoring our unity, we welcome the Dialogue among Civilizations initiative. Regarding conflict situations, Zimbabwe  commends the efforts of the Director-General and UNESCO in handling the post-conflict situations of Afghanistan,  Iraq and the Middle East, where serious attempts are being made to bring back normalcy to the education system, as  well as to restore and safeguard the cultural heritage in those countries.
24.3 We note with satisfaction that the Director-General has visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo and set  up a task force to address that country’s post-conflict requirements. Zimbabwe endorses the position adopted by the  G77 Paris Chapter at its meeting of 2 September 2003, namely that UNESCO should have clearly laid down policies,  procedures and guidelines for dealing with all post-conflict situations.
24.4 Turning to the Draft Programme and Budget, Zimbabwe supports the US $610 million budget scenario. The  challenges facing UNESCO are clearly set out in document 32 C/5 and these can only be met in the context of that  budget scenario. The following observations and comments are thus made in that context.
24.5 Education remains at the heart of UNESCO’s mission. Today the main challenge is to achieve the six  Education for All (EFA) goals. Zimbabwe welcomes the additional US $10 million proposed for EFA if the  US $610 million scenario were adopted. Mr President, Zimbabwe underscores the importance of quality education  through collaborative research and training. This is why we think it is important to continue the activities of the  Southern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ), the Headquarters of which is the  UNESCO Harare Cluster Office. Through research, vital information is collected and used to monitor and assess the  quality of education. This Cluster Office was officially opened last month by the UNESCO Assistant Director for  External Relations and Cooperation. Mr President, the HIV/AIDS pandemic is reversing the gains made in education.  We note that in document 32 C/5, UNESCO intends to pay particular attention to the role of education in the fight  against AIDS. This is a noble and pragmatic goal consistent with UNESCO’s areas of competence.
24.6 We commend the Director-General and the Executive Board for explicitly placing Major Programme II,  Natural Sciences, in the context of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD). Coming from a region and  a country which is drought-prone, we appreciate the new water-related Millennium Development Goal adopted by  WSSD. We also commend the Director-General for fully integrating UNESCO into the United Nations World Water  Assessment Programme. Through UNESCO, we hope that the region of Southern Africa can be considered for future  pilot projects, for example relating to the Zambezi/Limpopo basins, the catchment area of which includes Botswana, the  Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mozambique, Malawi, South Africa, Zambia and of course Zimbabwe. We  therefore strongly support the draft resolution submitted by Botswana to include a subprogramme on Sustainable  Integrated Management of Arid and Semi-Arid Regions of Southern Africa, within the Natural Sciences Sector.  Mr President, the importance of renewable energies is underscored by WSSD and the New Partnership for Africa’s  Development (NEPAD). We commend its inclusion in the Draft Programme and Budget as a flagship activity under  Major Programme II. Zimbabwe therefore supports the draft resolution submitted by Senegal and other countries to  redress existing anomalies.
24.7 Mr President, UNESCO, as the collective conscience of humanity, is well positioned to provide guidance on  issues of ethics. We thus commend the Director-General for the initiatives taken in the area of human genetic data. The  draft international declaration on human genetic data is a milestone achievement and we support its adoption.
24.8 The UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity ushered in a new era: one that puts human dignity  at the centre of all else. In our view it is logical to follow through the process by considering the possibility of drawing  up an international standard-setting instrument on cultural diversity. Zimbabwe supports the adoption of the preliminary  draft convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage by the General Conference at its 32nd session.
24.9 Let me conclude by informing this august assembly that, in pursuance of UNESCO’s objectives of promoting  sustainable development, poverty eradication and the empowering of rural populations, especially women and youth,  Zimbabwe is successfully implementing its land reform programme, with the aim of returning the country’s heritage to  its rightful owners in order to correct colonial injustices, empower its people and utilize land as a basis to create wealth.  This programme, which has been hailed as a successful lesson and model by many countries, is being implemented as  an engine for economic development. I wish to take this opportunity to thank all friendly countries which have rallied  behind Zimbabwe during this most challenging but exciting period. Finally, I wish to express our appreciation of the  excellent relations that exist between Zimbabwe and UNESCO. I thank you.
25. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your presentation. I now invite the honourable Minister of  Culture of the Syrian Arab Republic to the rostrum.  א ٢٦,١ א(א א  ):א  ، א א ، א א א ، א א א ، א א א، ، א א א א א
(26.1) Mr AL SAYYED (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, my warmest greetings to you all. I should like to congratulate the President of the  General Conference on the trust which the General Conference has bestowed on him, which is based on his valuable  qualities, and his outstanding skills and abilities. I wish him every success and good luck in the task entrusted to him in  the proceedings of this session. I welcome the return of the United States of America and Timor-Leste to UNESCO,  which I hope will strengthen the Organization and its humanitarian and civilizing mission to construct the defences of  peace in the minds of men.
(26.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to convey to you the greetings of the President, the Government and  the people of Syria, on whose shores the first alphabet in history was invented and which gave birth to the world’s oldest  civilizations. Throughout its history, both ancient and modern, Syria has been a symbol of fellowship between religions,  of love, tolerance, cooperation and respect, and also a symbol of the encounter between civilizations and the blending of  cultures, a refuge for the afflicted and oppressed, who found there peace and safety, trust and tranquillity. That was what  prepared this ancient and blessed land for a vital role in the flowering of world culture and civilization referred to by His  Holiness Pope John Paul II. Our Arab-Islamic nation is based on openness between people and civilizations. Conquests  were launched from its territory and swept over it. It suffered misfortunes and invasions but, in spite of all that, it still  offered the world a model of society and humanity asserting receptiveness and a willingness for contact with fellow  human beings, for it continued to fly the flag of life, the flag of human brotherhood. On the basis of this deep  commitment to humanity and civilization Syria holds in high esteem the noble mission that UNESCO pursues in the  fields of education, culture and science. It values the Organization’s great efforts to implement its many and varied  projects aimed at the construction of a knowledge society and the eradication of illiteracy, the protection of the tangible  and intangible cultural heritage and the preservation of the cultural identity of peoples, respect for their cultures, heritage  and values, and the strengthening of human rights and democratic principles.
(26.3) While measures to combat poverty, hunger, illiteracy and environmental degradation are among the priorities  which UNESCO is addressing, the number one priority in our Arab region is the ending of the Israeli occupation of Arab  land in Palestine, the occupied Syrian Golan and the remaining part of southern Lebanon. This priority stems from the  decisions of international law and the resolutions of the Security Council, which stipulate the withdrawal of Israel, the  establishment of an independent State of Palestine with Jerusalem as its capital, and the return of the refugees to their  homes. There can be no human development so long as the occupation continues. The preservation of human life is the  first priority. In our occupied Arab lands in Palestine, the Golan and southern Lebanon, facilities are being destroyed and  educational and cultural institutions are closed down while innocent inhabitants and their children are tortured and killed.  The sole crime of those living under occupation is that they are defending their own entity, presence and land. Indeed,  laws worldwide call for the defence of one’s self and one’s land and for resistance to the occupant. Had it not been for the  sacrifices made by the peoples who were colonized in this world, they would never have won their freedom and  independence. Nothing is more noble than sacrifice in the cause of freedom, independence, pride and national dignity.  We cannot conceive of achieving security and peace of any sort so long as the occupation continues. The Israeli  occupation forces are doing their utmost to obliterate the Arab cultural heritage: their repeated attempts to set fire to the  Dome of the Rock and the al-Aqsà Mosque and to tamper with archaeological sites in the Syrian Golan are all indicative  of that aim. Similarly, they are endeavouring to eliminate the Arab demographic presence, and the corresponding political,  economic, social, intellectual and cultural life, by means of repression, restrictions, persecution, imprisonment, expulsion  and annihilation. They are also endeavouring to appropriate various Arab cultural forms, claiming as their own even the
120  embroidery on clothes, folk songs and types of food, and to distort the picture presented of Arab history in Arab schools  under their occupation.
(26.4) Ladies and gentlemen, under the wise leadership of President Bashar al-Asad, and in keeping with its  humanitarian values and profound civilization, Syria rejects racism, supremacy, injustice, aggression, terrorism and  extremism. It therefore joined the entire world in condemning the terrorism to which the United States of America was  subjected on 11 September, for Syria itself has suffered from terrorism and understands that terrorism and extremism are  inseparable, that where there is extremism, human values are absent. It also is of the view that a distinction must be made  between terrorism and the right of peoples to oppose an occupant. While the right to use force unfortunately prevails in  the world today, we nonetheless consider that the force of right is stronger and more durable, and is what should prevail  and be reinforced. The forces of good in the world – and UNESCO is in their vanguard – must have a voice which is  influential in strengthening the force of right and building the defences of peace in the minds of men.
(26.5) It is hard and bitter for items of the cultural heritage of humanity to be looted from an Arab capital, Baghdad,  which is a major site in the collective memory of the nation and of humanity as a whole. And this feeling of pain cannot  be erased except through the return of this heritage and its preservation as the property of humankind, and by enabling the  Iraqi people to take control of its own resources in order to preserve its independence, its territorial and national unity and  its rich heritage. We greatly appreciate UNESCO’s stance and its rapid action to preserve this ancient human heritage.
(26.7) The strategy pursued by Syria is the strategy of a comprehensive and just peace, a peace that can last. Its  approach is clear, its vision comprehensive and its role pivotal at the Arab, regional and world levels in the application of  international legality and law so that peace and security may be achieved in the Arab region. Only a comprehensive and  just peace can provide an opportunity for all-round cultural, social, economic and security-related development. It must  be a peace based not on aggression, injustice, murder and the destruction of homes, but on respect for principles, human  beings, and international legality. I wish the Conference success and good luck in its work. Peace be upon you.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank Your Excellency very much for your comments and contribution.  (The President continues in French)
(28.1) Mr NAJAR (Tunisia) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Mr President of the General Conference,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am  pleased to congratulate the President of the General Conference and to wish him every success in his task. I am also  pleased to express my deep gratitude to the Chairperson of the Executive Board and her colleagues, and to the Director- General of our Organization for their sterling efforts to preserve UNESCO as a reference point and a beacon in a world  whose bearings have become uncertain, and whose peoples have been seized by bewilderment.
(28.2) The challenges facing us require from the international community constant vigilance and a profound  awareness of the need for solidarity and cooperation in order to preserve people’s humanity and hopes for a better life.
122  None in this troubled world is better able than our Organization to act as the living conscience of humanity and the  repository of the higher humanitarian values that are threatened with oblivion and extinction as a result of the torrent of  globalization. Our fields of endeavour – education, culture, science and communication – constitute basic human rights,  and it is incumbent upon all humankind to ensure that they are made available to all. If we promote them properly in  accordance with the principles proclaimed in our Organization’s Constitution, we give the lie to prophecies about the  clash of civilizations and the conflict of cultures, and we refute the claims made by the partisans of civil strife, fanaticism  and terrorism.
(28.3) Since independence, Tunisia has wagered on education and devoted to it the better part of its resources. It has  enshrined the right to education and guaranteed education to all, basing it on the principles of tolerance, openness and  human rights. From the start of its experiment, it has stressed the need for more rapid, courageous decision-making in the  interests of those human communities that are most exposed to the dangers of poverty and ignorance and for the  application of the principle of “positive discrimination” for their welfare. In this connection, Tunisia supports the  proposals contained in the report entitled Learning: The Treasure Within and also the proposals of the Dakar World  Education Forum (2000), especially the call for wider application of the principle of “debt relief for education”. Likewise,  Tunisia reiterates the appeal it made at the last session for the establishment of an international fund for educational  development in the countries in greatest need. I hardly need to reiterate that these measures tie in with the appeal by His  Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali for the creation of a world solidarity fund, a proposal which was endorsed  by the United Nations in December 2002. These humanitarian initiatives can only be successful in the context of a new  model of international cooperation based on the principle of balanced partnership and an awareness of our common  human destiny.
(28.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, humanity has entered a new phase of history characterized by a far- reaching transformation of the means of production and the science and technology underpinning them, and also of man’s  conception of himself and the world. In these times of transition, people’s visions become blurred, points of reference  become confused, and doubt replaces certainty. This is why we need to renew the system of values on the basis of which  we shape our conduct, attitudes and desire to live together. In this connection, Tunisia supports the project on ethics in  the practice of modern science and technology. In backing this project enthusiastically, we urge that inspiration be drawn  from the experience of all civilizations and faiths in drawing up guidelines for the protection of the human genome  against excesses which may arise from scientific discoveries.
(28.5) The digital divide that separates the most developed countries from the rest today threatens to marginalize  entire peoples. Tunisia, which was chosen to host the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society in
2005, will endeavour to ensure that this event provides an impetus to reduce this gap and promote international  cooperation in order to achieve justice, peace and harmony among peoples.
(28.6) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the threats to the cultural, civilizational and human heritage in Iraq  require greater vigilance on our part and a concern to preserve our cultures and our human memory. For their diversity is  the best guarantee of creativity and dialogue among peoples. Each culture should be regarded as exceptional, and we  should commit ourselves one and all to ensuring that each culture may express its unique presence in a world symphony  in which no one voice rings louder than another or sounds a discordant note. We greatly appreciate the particular efforts  made by the Director-General to deal with the cultural catastrophe in Iraq.
(28.7) In view of the importance of physical education and sport for inculcating the values of tolerance and  solidarity and for the dialogue among cultures, the President of the Republic of Tunisia has proposed the inclusion in the  agenda of the 58th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations entitled “International Year of Sport and  Physical Education”. We propose that practical expression be given to this proposal by setting a time frame for the  celebration of this Year.
(28.8) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed the year 2000  International Year for the Culture of Peace, and we all worked in our respective countries to disseminate that culture,  especially among young people in schools, and to inculcate in them the lofty principles contained in the historic  declaration that was adopted on that occasion. In view of our commitment to these principles, we must voice our grave  concern over the blockage of the paths to peace in the Middle East and over the violation of international laws by Israel  and its use of force in order to impose its will on a people suffering under occupation, and to deprive adults and children  alike of their right to education, culture and life.
(28.9) The challenges before us are great and the issues crucial. We are convinced that proper awareness of these  challenges and issues is the starting point for finding a solution. The only sound solutions must be collective, and involve  building dialogue, solidarity and introducing a new culture to inspire joint international action. In concluding, I can but  reiterate Tunisia’s attachment to the principles of UNESCO and its full readiness to support all initiatives aimed at  promoting education for all, well-focused culture and useful science. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon  you.
29.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Excellence, de votre intervention et des activités dont vous nous avez fait part.
123  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
29.2 I now invite the next speaker, the Assistant Minister for Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam, to take the floor.
30.1 M. Lê (Viet Nam) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord vous présenter, Monsieur Omoleva, mes  félicitations les plus vives pour votre brillante élection aux hautes fonctions de Président de la Conférence générale.  Connaissant vos qualités d’homme de cœur et d’esprit ainsi que votre parfaite connaissance de l’UNESCO, je suis  convaincu que les travaux de cette importante session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO seront couronnés de  succès. Je voudrais aussi souhaiter la bienvenue aux deux pays venus nous rejoindre à l’occasion de cette session : le  Timor-Leste et les États-Unis d’Amérique. Comme vous tous, le Viet Nam se réjouit du renforcement et de la  confirmation de l’universalité de l’UNESCO qui sont essentiels à la réalisation de ses objectifs.
30.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, nous vivons une étape décisive de l’histoire du développement de l’humanité. Face  aux nouveaux obstacles à la paix et au développement, nous nous réjouissons que l’UNESCO ait déjà une vision  nouvelle et de plus en plus précise de sa mission dans le domaine de la coopération et de la solidarité internationale,  alors que l’Organisation des Nations Unies et d’autres organisations intergouvernementales en sont au stade des  recherches et des réaffirmations. Nous partageons pleinement cette vision, Monsieur le Directeur général, qui permet à  notre Organisation de s’engager plus profondément à jouer son rôle de « médiateur impartial » entre les parties  concernées, à s’attaquer aux racines mêmes des problèmes dans les situations de postconflit, et incite à donner une forte  impulsion au dialogue entre les cultures et les civilisations, dans un monde à la fois contrasté, globalisé et diversifié.
30.3 Le Viet Nam est une nation pluriethnique. De par notre histoire, nous avons engrangé une expérience longue  et enrichissante de communication et de dialogue avec de nombreuses cultures et civilisations dans le monde. Nous  sommes convaincus que le dialogue et l’écoute de chacun constituent un vecteur essentiel de la paix. La Déclaration  finale de New Delhi en juillet dernier et le Message d’Ohrid en août dernier sur le dialogue des cultures et des  civilisations illustrent la prise de conscience par les plus hautes autorités politiques dans le monde de l’importance  stratégique de cette question à l’heure actuelle. Il convient d’établir les bases d’un nouveau départ fait de dialogue et de  coopération et de mettre en pratique ce programme à tous les niveaux et là où cela s’impose. C’est dans cet esprit que le  Viet Nam se propose d’organiser à Hanoi l’an prochain une conférence régionale sur le thème « Dialogue entre les  civilisations pour la paix et le développement durable ». Nous y avons été fortement encouragés par l’accueil très  favorable fait à cette initiative et par le soutien que lui apporte le Directeur général et nous vous invitons à vous y  joindre.
30.4 Monsieur le Président, une des principales missions de l’UNESCO réside dans l’élaboration d’instruments  normatifs concernant les problèmes les plus importants auxquels la communauté internationale doit faire face à l’heure  actuelle ou qui ont un impact sur son avenir. Je voudrais remercier le Directeur général et le Secrétariat pour le travail et  les efforts considérables accomplis au cours de ces dernières années en vue de la préparation de nouveaux instruments  normatifs qui seront examinés et adoptés au cours de cette session, notamment l’Avant-projet de convention  internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, le Projet de recommandation sur la promotion et  l’usage du multilinguisme et l’accès universel au cyberespace, et le Projet de charte sur la conservation du patrimoine  numérique. De même le Viet Nam souhaite qu’à cette session, nous œuvrions ensemble pour que l’UNESCO élabore un  avant-projet de convention sur la diversité culturelle qui pourrait être adopté par la Conférence générale à sa prochaine  session.
30.5 Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, l’éducation est au cœur du développement de l’individu et de la société  et le programme « L’éducation pour tous » au cœur de l’action de l’UNESCO. Nous souhaitons que les conclusions de  la Table ronde ministérielle sur le thème « Promouvoir la qualité de l’éducation », organisée au cours de cette session,  inspirent l’action de l’UNESCO pour les prochaines années, notamment pendant la Décennie des Nations Unies pour  l’alphabétisation et la Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’éducation en vue du développement durable.
30.6 En ce qui concerne les sciences exactes et naturelles, nous saluons l’action menée par l’UNESCO pour  donner suite à la Conférence mondiale sur la science à Budapest ainsi qu’au Sommet mondial pour le développement  durable de Johannesburg. A cet égard nous accordons la plus grande importance à l’interaction entre la diversité  culturelle et la biodiversité. La préservation de l’environnement, du savoir-faire et des connaissances traditionnelles des  communautés locales ainsi que l’établissement d’un réseau de réserves de biosphère au Viet Nam font partie de nos  objectifs de développement durable. Nous soutenons la création du Programme international relatif aux sciences  fondamentales qui va dans le sens du développement des capacités, de l’éducation scientifique, du développement des  réseaux et de la définition des priorités régionales.
30.7 L’action menée par l’UNESCO dans le domaine de la communication au cours de ces deux dernières années,  tout comme la Table ronde ministérielle sur le thème « De la société de l’information et de la communication à la  société du savoir » constitue une contribution substantielle au Sommet mondial sur la société de l’information qui aura  lieu prochainement. Nous œuvrerons ensemble pour transmettre au monde le message délivré par le Directeur général à  la dernière session de la Conférence générale : apprendre à vivre ensemble dans le village planétaire suppose le droit de  s’exprimer, le devoir d’être vigilant et le désir de comprendre. Je voudrais y ajouter une quatrième composante : la  compétence pour réaliser ces droits, ces devoirs et ces aspirations. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
31. The PRESIDENT:  I now invite the honourable Minister of Education of Turkey to make his presentation.
32.1 Mr ÇELIK (Turkey):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation I congratulate you on your election as President of the General Conference  at its 32nd session. We are confident that through your able guidance this General Conference will produce results  which will very positively affect the Organization’s activities in the years to come. Ambassador Omolewa, we assure  you of our contribution to facilitate your challenging responsibilities as the President of UNESCO’s highest governing  body. I welcome the return of the United States of America to the UNESCO family and our new Member State, Timor- Leste.
32.2 Mr President, the evil terrorist attack of 11 September 2001 cast its gloom over the 31st session of the  General Conference. Now, two years later, we are confronted with a heinous attack on the United Nations Headquarters  in Baghdad in August. Once again I am duty-bound to voice our condolences to the families of the victims. Turkey  strongly condemns all acts of terrorism no matter by whom they are perpetrated and whatever their reasons or aims  might be, and believes that international cooperation is crucial in combating terrorism.
32.3 Mr President, the urgent action taken by UNESCO has been instrumental in preventing the cultural heritage  of Iraq from being further pillaged and destroyed. We closely follow the measures taken by the Organization to provide  assistance to Iraq in the fields of its competence. We deem it imperative to take further steps to safeguard the rich  cultural heritage of Iraq, which embraces the Sumerian, Abbasid, Ottoman and other periods up to the present day. My  Government has pledged UNESCO financial resources for the protection of the cultural heritage of Iraq. As a  neighbouring country, it is our sincere hope that stability and tranquillity will be completely established in Iraq as soon  as possible.
32.4 Mr President, through education many problems can be solved at their very root. This is why Turkey has  initiated a series of campaigns such as the “Support for the National Education Campaign”, which targets the whole  society but gives priority to young girls and women, and the “Support for the Schooling of Girls” campaign in  cooperation with UNICEF, which aims to eradicate the gender gap in education. In many cases the resources earmarked  for educational purposes from regular budgets are not sufficient. To overcome this hurdle our government has enacted a  law followed up by a campaign entitled “100% Support for Education”. This law enables private persons and  companies to deduct their voluntary contributions for educational purposes directly from their taxable incomes. By this  means we have been able to accumulate substantial financial resources for educational purposes. We hope to attain
100% participation in secondary education, as is the case in primary education.
32.5 Mr President, as a country blessed with cultural riches, Turkey gives utmost consideration to the  safeguarding of the cultural heritage and fervently believes that every effort should be made to preserve the common  cultural heritage of mankind. The international standard-setting instruments initiated by UNESCO are of great  importance for the safeguarding of our common cultural heritage. Turkey hosted the third UNESCO Round Table of  Ministers of Culture in Istanbul, which resulted in the Istanbul Declaration, a milestone in the preparation of the future  convention on the intangible cultural heritage. We also hope that the declaration concerning the intentional destruction  of cultural heritage will create a wider public awareness of the need to protect the cultural heritage.
32.6 Mr President, we are pleased that the works of Ibni Sina in the Süleymaniye Manuscript Library were  included in the Memory of the World register. I would like to take this opportunity to invite UNESCO and the Research  Centre for Islamic History, Art and Culture (IRCICA) to join a cooperation project. The project consists in establishing  a large-scale and multifunctional restoration and conservation laboratory for oriental manuscripts, a “Manuscripts  Hospital”, so to speak, which would serve the Middle East, the Balkans, Central Asia and the Caucasus.
32.7 In UNESCO, our aim must be to maintain and even to give a fresh impetus and new dynamism to the  Organization to find solutions for the problems of the new millennium. Ethics is one of the major fields where  UNESCO can play a pivotal role. The UNESCO Philosophy Day, initially proposed by Turkey, has now gained
125  acceptance and is being celebrated in various countries across the world. In the belief that philosophy provides the  conceptual basis for the prevention of racism, discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance, we recently hosted the  Twenty-First World Congress of Philosophy in Istanbul. Turkey believes that peace and genuine cooperation can only  be achieved through dialogue. The high-level conference for reinforcing cooperation in South-East Europe was one  significant attempt to strengthen dialogue among countries with similar problems and systems. Meetings like that  between the European Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (EU-OIC Forum) in Istanbul and the  regional meeting in Ohrid could also serve as examples for similar forums in other regions of the world.
32.8 Mr President, in conclusion, I should like once again to congratulate the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for  his dedicated efforts to increase the efficiency of the Organization. Seeing the results of his undertaking, we surely have  good reason to be optimistic for the decades to come. Thank you.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I wish to thank you, honourable Minister, for your kind comments and we are delighted to hear of the efforts  your country continues to make. Now it is my pleasure to invite the honourable Minister of Education of Pakistan to  make her statement. You are welcome, Madam.
34.1 Ms JALAL (Pakistan):  In the name of Allah, the most Merciful, the most Compassionate, Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, heads and members of delegations,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you). On behalf of the Government of Pakistan,  it is an honour to participate in the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Pakistan welcomes the return  of the United States of America to UNESCO and the entry of Timor-Leste. We look forward to working with them in  our expanded family. This is the second General Conference in the new millennium, providing us with an opportunity  to explore together the promotion of universal human rights amidst corporate globalization, diversity and respect for  cultural contexts. Culture for me is an amalgam of the spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional dimensions  embedded in the dynamic interpretation of fundamental human rights and values of a given society. I would like to  acknowledge the work of the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his team at UNESCO in taking forward the  challenges of an increasingly complex world through holistic, innovative programmes as reflected in document 32 C/5  and institutional mechanisms.
34.2 Let us be reminded, as we negotiate globalization, tolerance, peace, education and learning technologies, that  this action needs to be undertaken and to be seen through a human lens in places which have multi-layered histories. We  uphold and respect diversity and preservation of our living heritage, both intangible and tangible. Pakistan is the cradle  of the world’s leading civilizations. The first village, dating back to 9000 B.C., was found at Mehargarh in Balochistan.  The Indus civilization was the first literate civilization of the subcontinent. We in Pakistan seek an asset-based  relationship with UNESCO where we can interact through each other’s comparative advantage.
34.3 UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy 2002-2007 is premised on decentralization, quality and knowledge- based societies. Since 2001 we have been engaged in country-wide decentralization and for us the demands on capacity  are immense with the recently formed 109 district and provincial governments. We have thus experienced major shifts  in roles and responsibilities from centralized to decentralized systems. For the first time 45,000 women are in local  government. Community participation has been provided legal cover in the form of Citizen Community Boards. Ladies  and gentlemen, the reflection processes these days in Pakistan are iterative, to address changing systems and procedures  aligned to emerging needs. Our literacy rate, at 51.6%, continues to be a major bottleneck in our transitions.
34.4 An unprecedented political will for education has been mobilized at the highest levels in Pakistan, led by the  President and the Prime Minister. Pakistan’s macro-reforms include devolution, economic revival, education sector  reforms, the National Plan of Action for EFA and information technology policy, encompassed in the country’s Poverty  Reduction Strategy. The country consensus is that economic growth alone does not guarantee human development, but  that human capital is critical in the war against poverty.
34.5 The gender gap is large and persistent at every level of education in South Asia. The challenge before us,  therefore, is to remove gender disparities, particularly in new programmes and enrolment drives. Country Guidelines for  a Strategic Framework of Action have been developed to implement the United Nations Literacy Decade. Pakistan has  sought an active engagement with its regional neighbours, with UNESCO’s support. The foundations of the South Asia  EFA Forum were laid during the Dakar meeting in 2000. The first ministerial meeting in May 2003 culminated in the  Islamabad Declaration which outlines our collective regional challenges in the core areas of gender, quality and  financing.
34.6 We need a more inclusive approach in ensuring expanded partnerships for quality EFA. We seek compatible  terminologies so as not to create hierarchies. The “mainstream” has failed to deliver quality education. Private sector  delivery ranges from as little as 5 percent to 60 percent in many countries of the world. The mainstream excludes the  non-formal, the madaris and other delivery systems. In our recent regional meeting the South Asian partners realized  that governments and donors are allocating only three to five percent of their education budgets to literacy and non- formal education. Recognizing current gaps in literacy, enrolment and completion rates, the current allocations need  rethinking. Education for all must mean education by all. It must mean embracing partnerships for mainstream and non- mainstream education into one universe with agreed common norms for quality learning and within the realm of public  responsibility.
34.7 The rapid growth of information and communication technologies (ICTs) and economic globalization  requires that the E-9 countries and regional alliances strengthen active international collaboration to move towards  knowledge-based societies. This would call for a critical input of adequate resources. We are also concerned by  discriminatory practices regarding whose knowledge is considered legitimate. I for one represent the history of the  “other”, the “little tradition”. I know what it is like to live in silence and also to have a voice, which is bestowed on me  as a trust on behalf of all those who need a voice. And believe me there are millions out there with rich assets in terms  of history and culture who must be heard.
34.8 For quality EFA to gain momentum towards the building of learning societies, we need regional peace and  cooperation. We respect the pluralism and diversity of humankind. We stand committed to dialogues for human  development and poverty reduction.
34.9 Pakistan is a willing partner in post-conflict reconciliation and reconstruction. We are currently engaged in  responding to the rehabilitation and development needs of refugees in the health, education and other basic areas within  the limits of our resources. Let us not forget that the largest part of the UNESCO family lives on the African continent.  Let us also not forget the small islands which have their own comparative advantage, an equal voice and just as pressing  needs and concerns.
34.10 Education is the most critical lever for alleviating poverty, empowering people and ensuring peace,  prosperity and solidarity. Dakar mobilized the developed countries as partners of EFA. They are signatory to debt write- offs and swaps for highly indebted both low- and medium-income countries. We also acknowledge UNESCO’s  initiative on enhancing financing for EFA. But we need to ask candidly whether the Fast-Track Initiative (FTI) is a  resource-enhancing framework or whether it has a limiting effect.
34.11 Ladies and gentlemen, how can we link our initiatives in the fields of culture, science and technology and  education? We have lit a torch for peace and understanding among the young generation of Pakistan through the  Associated Schools Project network, with more than 300 schools supported by UNESCO. Pakistan stands committed to  the call for creating defences of peace in the minds of people. Let us all begin this process from UNESCO’s platform as  our contribution to the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World.
34.12 In the end, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in one’s life when one feels empowered on account of  time and circumstance. I stand at such a threshold on behalf of my country and region. There is a need to seek active  convergence between the individual, social, national and international dimensions for the promotion of education in all  its comprehensive dimensions touching upon culture, science, technology and knowledge creation, in which UNESCO  must play the role of a serious catalyst at multiple levels. Thank you very much.
35. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the honourable Minister of Education of Pakistan and invite the Ambassador of Chile in France to  take the floor on behalf of his country.
(36.1) Mr SCHILLING (Chile) (translation from Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General  of UNESCO, Ministers, Ambassadors, representatives of Member States, ladies and gentlemen, as the Ambassador of  Chile to France I have the honour to speak as the representative of the Minister of Education of Chile, Mr Sergio Bitar,  who has been unavoidably detained in the country. I should like to congratulate Mr Omolewa on his election as President  of the General Conference, and I should like to welcome Timor-Leste’s joining into the Organization and the United  States of America’s return. I should also like to make special mention of the Director-General’s journey to Chile this year.
(36.2) Chile is a distant country, with a distressing recent political past, of which you are no doubt all aware.  Because of both our difficult geographic conditions and the need to recover the precious gift of freedom and democracy  we have been investing heavily in education and social development, and are carrying out far-reaching reforms in order  to ensure quality education. However, I do not wish to speak of Chile, but rather “from” Chile, since we share both the  problems and aspirations of a world that is suffering at the dawn of this new century. The events in Iraq are a matter of  concern to us, since they have placed dramatically on the agenda the problem of the fragility of peace, but also that of the  inadequacy of multilateral political processes to prevent war. Such problems confirm not only the relevance of  UNESCO’s commitment to the building of peace through education and knowledge, but its very existence as a  multilateral organization in which we may all express our views, in the certainty that we will be listened to with respect.
(36.3) We are convinced that “education is the wealth of nations” and that it must be available to all children and  young people, as a crucial prerequisite for sustainable and equitable human development and as a decisive factor for  building peace in the minds of men. Chile shares the resolve to endeavour to ensure free and compulsory education by the  year 2015, as laid down in the Dakar goals, which for Chile’s purposes we have redefined as overcoming the problem of  drop-out from secondary education by the year 2010, so as to achieve 12 levels of compulsory schooling for all children,  boys and girls alike, in Chile. We know that quality basic education, especially in language and mathematics, is the  fundamental pillar of subsequent education, but we also believe that it is necessary to redefine the quality of education,  placing greater emphasis on the inclusion of contents and activities designed to recognize and legitimize the diversity of  cultures, encourage tolerance and acceptance of differences and strengthen civic education based on the recognition of  human rights. Together with the issue of school enrolment, but going beyond that, we must take up the challenge of  lifelong learning, and of introducing not only into schools but also into the wider sectors of society the new information  technologies and the ethical principles they raise.
(36.4) However, Chile wishes to sound a note of caution: the legitimate and necessary efforts to enrich human  capital through education must not be seen as a substitute for rising to the fundamental challenge of dealing  comprehensively with inequality and poverty. It is necessary to broaden access to higher education and ensure excellence  at that level if we are to progress along the path of a country’s all-round development. Accordingly, we attach the utmost  importance to UNESCO’s efforts to advance ethical thinking on the consequences of scientific progress and  technological development for people’s everyday lives. It is this complex range of social, educational, scientific and  ethical actions that we, like UNESCO, believe to be indispensable for equitable and sustainable human development. And  to this complex set of factors must be added communications and information. We consider it to be of the utmost urgency  to work with UNESCO in order to narrow the so-called digital divide and overcome the obstacles to information and the  free flow of ideas. In this connection, we have useful experiences to offer in the field of school computer networks and  digital literacy programmes for the population. However, we also believe that our rich human potential is not something  new, and that at the same time we must step up our action to protect cultural heritage, since it is that that we consider to  be of key importance in securing our identities as nations, since it tells us who we are and who we are destined to become,  not only within our own diverse make-up, but even thanks to that diversity. Consequently, we strongly support  UNESCO’s actions in this field and urge it to persevere in its endeavour to preserve the cultural properties that are  threatened in various ways, working to prevent illicit trafficking and extending its action to the intangible cultural  heritage.
(36.5) Mr President, Chile has faced up to its recent past, honouring the victims of the breakdown of democracy and  advancing along the path of the need for redress for those who were affected by the systematic official denial of human  rights. Chile has recovered its memory of the past so as better to face up to the future. There is consensus that the events  and processes that began 30 years ago must never happen again. A culture of peace, tolerance and respect for diversity,  promoted by UNESCO, have more meaning in Chile than ever before and strengthen our resolve to participate actively in  the programmes of the Organization. Thank you very much.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency. I now invite the Ambassador and Chargé d’Affaires of Bolivia to  take the floor on behalf of his country.
(38.1) Mr SAN MARTÍN (Bolivia) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Ministers, heads of delegation, I shall begin by conveying the apologies of the Minister of Education,  Mr Domingo Carvajal, who for compelling reasons of domestic order is unable to attend this session of the General  Conference and has therefore asked me to present his address, which reads as follows:
(38.2) Education is a mirror of society reflecting economic, social and cultural conditions, but at the same time  conveying values conducive to change and transformation. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, we are living in
130  an era of knowledge and information, which have increased the value of time but threaten to widen the differences  between regions. The countries on the fringes are steadily becoming less important, producing less and consuming less,  and their position on the international political agenda is slipping, yet paradoxically their population is growing faster  than that of the rich countries. This situation is becoming increasingly serious because it widens the gaps between the  minority associated with information, knowledge and power, and the multitude of the poor.
(38.3) Bolivia is a small country which in the past two decades, at the cost of great sacrifices, has complied with the  requirements of structural adjustment and globalization without reaping the benefits of its efforts. We are helpless  witnesses of a loss of direction as we undergo an economic recession that generates serious social conflicts, disruption  and a breakdown of institutional legitimacy. Bolivia wishes to establish, within UNESCO’s fields of competence, the  programme for “Support for democratic governance and human rights education in Bolivia”, which is in line with the  Organization’s objectives for the 2004-2005 biennium, giving priority to the teaching of universal values, democratic  principles and practices, and human and civic rights. The purpose of the proposed programme is to help build capacity for  political management, crisis monitoring, evaluation of fundamental political decisions and conflict prevention and  resolution, in addition to strengthening democratic values in Bolivian society as a whole. At the national level, all sectors  of society are endeavouring to face up to the present crisis and it is hoped that the “Bolivian Strategy for Poverty  Eradication” and the “Bolivian Education Strategy” will prove to be appropriate instruments for overcoming the crisis. In  the international context, Bolivia has signed up to various agreements and conventions, including the Framework for  Action adopted by the World Conference on Education for All (EFA) held in Jomtien in 1990 and agreed goals of the  Dakar World Education Forum held in 2000, at which results achieved since the Jomtien conference were evaluated.
(38.4) Various sectors in Bolivia today agree on the need to construct models linking economic considerations with  the well-being of society as a whole, and in this context there is new potential for formulating an educational response to  the new challenges facing Bolivian society. The proposal in question is a comprehensive and innovative one that takes  stock of the present situation, the achievements and shortcomings of educational policies and, on the basis of what has  been accomplished to date, responds to the needs of the various levels of education, whether formal, tertiary or alternative.  The proposal must be based on consultation among the parties involved, link up the demands of society with expert  knowledge, be truly sensitive to diversity and allow for flexibility in the educational projects and models proposed. It  must be viable, set realistic goals and design the necessary strategies to achieve them. It calls for an efficient management  system making optimum use of the country’s limited resources and likewise the resources of international cooperation by  using them efficiently and in an autonomous manner. These are the underpinnings of the “Bolivian Education Strategy
2004-2015” that is currently being developed as a concerted process with active intersectoral and across-the-board  participation, having as its ultimate purpose the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. An extraordinary  process of consultation with all stakeholders has been carried out, mainly with teachers, the Episcopal Education  Commission, the educational councils of the indigenous peoples and representatives of civil society grouped together  under the umbrella of the Education Forum. Two thousand representatives of the educational community as a whole have  taken part in this process through various thematic workshops.
(38.5) As part of the Literacy Decade, Bolivia is working on broadening the scope of literacy work by extending it  to include post-literacy with a view to reducing marginalization. The “Bolivian Education Strategy 2004-2015” seeks to  raise educational quality in both primary and secondary education, with a wide range of course options and technical and  university education so designed as to enable future generations to be properly equipped for responding to the needs and  realities of the country and for taking on board the ever more rapid advances in technology, and as an effective way of  narrowing the gap between our country and the developed countries, while at the same time complying with the  education for all objectives advocated by UNESCO. In this context, we hope to see an increased and more effective  UNESCO presence in Bolivia.
(38.6) Cultural diversity includes linguistic diversity. This is why efforts are being made to refine the concepts and  operative contents of bilingualism so as to achieve effective functional bilingualism, with each person mastering both the  mother tongue and Spanish, the latter as the language of intercommunication and the former as the expression of cultural  affirmation and a mechanism for preserving indigenous languages. Bolivia shares the view that the linguistic rights of the  various communities should be protected within a legal framework. For Bolivia, interculturalism is paramount, and for  this reason it needs to strengthen the positive values of its various cultures, seeking to ensure that each one of them  knows, understands and respects all the others, the ultimate aim being to achieve a multicultural community with  common goals that can build a society based on solidarity, justice, participation and responsibility for the course of its  own history.
(38.7) Aware as it is of the importance attached by the international community to the management and use of  hydrological resources, with the proclamation of 2003 as “International Year of Freshwater”, and in compliance with the  commitments entered into at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, Bolivia has taken on a  leadership role in the region. In October, the “Forum of the Americas, concerted action for the sustainable management  of fresh water in the twenty-first century”, was held in our country; the Forum highlights social dialogue as an instrument  for sustainable management of fresh water, and we hope that this message will likewise be taken up in the various world  forums.
(38.8) On a final point, I consider the protection of the intangible cultural heritage to be a matter of paramount  importance. Since 1973 Bolivia has been in the forefront of initiatives at UNESCO to protect it, and consequently
131  reiterates its support for the preliminary draft international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural  heritage, just as it supported the Cuzco Consensus and the Declaration of Quirama. Thank you very much.
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellencies, honourable Ministers, distinguished heads of delegation, eminent  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of this plenary session. Thank you very much for this  productive morning and for your continued cooperation. We shall resume at 3 o’clock sharp. In the meantime, please  enjoy a good lunch and a short rest. The meeting is adjourned.   La séance est levée à 12 h 50   The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.50   Заседание закрывается в 12.50  א א١٢,٥٠א    会议于 12 时 50 分结束