233  Neuvième séance plénière
3 octobre 2003 à 10 h 10  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Ninth plenary meeting
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to declare open the ninth plenary meeting, at which we shall continue  with the general policy debate.
1.2 Distinguished Ministers, heads of delegations, friends, ladies and gentlemen, before we resume the general  policy debate I should like to inform the plenary that the General Committee held its second meeting this morning. The  General Committee discussed the progress of work in the commissions and committees, and the agenda for plenary  meetings. I have the pleasure to inform you that the work of all subsidiary organs is proceeding according to schedule.
1.3 The General Committee was also informed of the visit of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, His  Excellency Mr Askar Akayev, which is scheduled for Monday, 6 October 2003. President Akayev is expected to  address the General Conference on that morning. The President and the Director-General will then attend the ceremony  to be held in the traditional tent, or yurt, for the signing of the Plan of Operations for the project on the preservation of  Silk Roads sites in the Upper Chuy Valley in Kyrgyzstan.
1.4 Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, I should like to thank you for your outstanding cooperation concerning  the time limit agreed upon for statements in this general policy debate. If I am not mistaken, the 32nd session of the  General Conference has so far had the shortest average time per speaker. I hope that we will continue to maintain this  record. I am not sure whether this is a reflection of your respect for our eight-minute time limit or your dislike of our  musical selection, which signals that the speaker has exceeded his speaking time. Sometimes I am tempted to bring on  the music that will make us all dance, but I am told that I am no longer just an African for all of you, so I have resisted  that temptation. Perhaps the true reason is an enormous interest in my African present. That present, by the way, is the  symbol of African unity; it has a bronze head, and you will take it with you and, with it, forever remember Africa. You  can even pass it on to generations yet unborn, because, according to an African proverb, it is not so much the size of a  present that matters as the thought behind it. This is what my forefathers would like me to convey to you in presenting  you with that African present. In any case, the formula we have adopted seems to be working very well, as more and  more people are taking the award. I do encourage you to take it, otherwise you will hear the music and the crescendo  that goes on until it drowns out your message.
1.5 I now have the honour to call on our first speaker for this morning, the honourable Minister of Basic  Education, Sport and Culture of Namibia, His Excellency Mr John Mutorwa. Your Excellency, you are welcome to the  rostrum.
2.1 Mr MUTORWA (Namibia):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, ladies  and gentlemen, may I, on behalf of the Namibian delegation, join the previous speakers in congratulating you,  Mr President, on your election. We also wish to congratulate the Director-General and his staff for the well-prepared  Draft Programme and Budget, which suggests that we are moving towards greater concentration and focus in order to  ensure the impact of UNESCO’s programmes and activities. Like other Member States, Namibia welcomes the return  of the United States of America to UNESCO, which brings with it an increase of the Organization’s budget. We also  add our voice to those who have spoken before us in warmly welcoming Timor-Leste as the newest Member State of  UNESCO.
2.2 Education for all remains the priority for many of us. We vividly recall the Dakar Framework for Action of
2000, which gave us so much hope. We are grateful to the Director-General for his efforts to maintain the momentum,  and we wish to encourage him to pursue those efforts and to campaign for more financial and technical assistance to  enable Member States to implement their national plans effectively.
2.3 HIV/AIDS preventive education is number two on the list of priorities, and we appreciate the prominence  given to HIV/AIDS in UNESCO’s documents. May I, Mr Director-General, express Namibia’s gratitude for  UNESCO’s recent financial contribution towards our effort to fight HIV/AIDS in our education sector.
2.4 The Government of the Republic of Namibia is about to embark upon a family literacy programme in  severely disadvantaged areas of our country. Our aim is to create synergy between adult education and formal education,  by working simultaneously with children entering school and their parents, during the first term of the year. Since other  countries are more experienced in such programmes, we would appreciate any assistance in doing preparatory research  into local family literacy practices, preparation of curricula and materials, and the training of facilitators.
2.5 Namibia has in recent years established 12 community learning and development centres, with a thirteenth  soon to be opened. These centres are also part of a wider network of 46 centres for open and distance learning, known  as the Namibia Open Learning Network. Here again, we would be very happy to have exchange programmes with other  countries, particularly in Asia, where such centres have been pioneered, and to improve the electronic communication  facilities at such centres.
2.6 The activities of the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) also deserve special  mention, in particular the Annual Training Programme in Educational Planning and Administration and its support for  the Southern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ). These two programmes are making a  remarkable contribution to capacity-building in our respective countries.
2.7 In the area of the sciences, greater focus is needed on the promotion of science education and enhancement of  the capacity of science and mathematics teachers. We further commend UNESCO’s efforts in the area of water for all  and encourage UNESCO to continue to concentrate on energy management. We from Southern Africa also wish to see  the Sustainable Integrated Management of Arid and Semi-Arid Regions of Southern Africa featuring in the Approved  Programme and Budget.
2.8 As regards culture, Namibia appreciates UNESCO’s efforts to promote cultural heritage and diversity. We  encourage the Director-General to continue his efforts to provide for both financial and technical assistance to Member  States for cultural activities, especially those under the World Heritage Convention of 1972. The support given needs to  go beyond the listing of sites on the World Heritage List and include capacity-building in the management, protection  and preservation of sites. We further support and encourage the promotion of cultural industries, as they can potentially  make a significant contribution to poverty eradication.
2.9 In the area of communication and information, we are pleased to note UNESCO’s continuous efforts to  provide people with access to information and knowledge. Namibia would appreciate collaboration and support in  promoting the use of technologies through multimedia centres and diverse media, especially in remote rural areas, in  order to narrow the digital divide and foster social inclusion. In our view, the actions and activities we have just  enumerated should ultimately contribute towards the eradication of poverty and the achievement of the Millennium  Development Goals.
2.10 UNESCO is well placed to play a significant and meaningful role in post-war or post-conflict reconstruction.  We applaud UNESCO for its swift response and involvement in the post-conflict reconstruction in countries like  Afghanistan and Iraq. At the same time, Namibia wishes to see the same attention and assistance extended to other  countries, on the African continent, such as Angola, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia,  Sudan and many more.
2.11 In conclusion, Mr President, Namibia supports the reform process and commends the Director-General on his  remarkable achievements so far. However, more efforts should be made by the sectors to decentralize both financial and  human resources to the field. The staffing of cluster offices needs to match the responsibilities of these offices. Yes, we  need an increased number of staff at the field level, but more importantly, we need staff at the appropriate level, so that  they can add value to what Member States are trying to achieve. Mr President, I thank you very much.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, and thank you for the gift of two minutes that you have given us.  I congratulate you on the excellent work that you are doing for your country. It is now my pleasure to invite the  honourable Minister of Education and Sciences of Equatorial Guinea, His Excellency Mr Antonio Fernando Nve Ngu,  to the rostrum.
(4.1) Mr NVE NGU (Equatorial Guinea) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable members of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen: Mr President, on behalf of the delegation of my country, Equatorial Guinea, and on  my own behalf, I would like to say how very pleased we are at your conclusive election to the Presidency of this
32nd session of the General Conference. We are fully confident that, with your long professional experience, the General  Conference will at this session be able to adopt important decisions for the good of our Organization.
(4.2) Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable and  distinguished delegates, I have the honour to convey to the General Conference the fraternal best wishes of His  Excellency the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. The delegation it is my privilege to lead wishes to  associate itself with the general expression of satisfaction on the part of the General Conference at the fact that Timor- Leste has joined, and the United States of America has rejoined, the ranks of UNESCO’s Member States. Addressing this  august assembly as representative of the Government of Equatorial Guinea, I would like to express my satisfaction at the  role played and the efforts exerted by UNESCO in the strengthening and building up of a humankind that has a sense of  responsibility, that is receptive to cooperation, generates ideals of peace and seeks balance between economic growth and  individual development within the international community and, more especially, in our country, Equatorial Guinea.
(4.3) In keeping with these principles, we go along with the philosophy of sustainable human development  approached from the viewpoint of the ultimate aims of development as such, namely the fulfilment of people’s hopes, the  progress they seek, the things they need and the things they want to do. In this respect, the challenge now facing the  Government of Equatorial Guinea is to decide what can and must be done to develop the capacities of the people of the  country, to allow them to avail themselves to the full of all the opportunities offered by the economic growth that the  country is experiencing. Since 1990, the country has been engaged in a process of democratic development that advocates  freedom of political association, freedom of religion and culture, of movement and expression, that sets life and the  family as the State’s supreme goals, and that encourages participation in public affairs as a means of ascertaining the  views and the will of the people of Equatorial Guinea.
(4.4) The government thus believes that social equity should go hand in hand with economic growth in the cause of  individual welfare. Hence the social policies pursued by the government are so scheduled as to promote social mobility  through development programmes aimed at the efficient provision of health, education, employment and cultural services,  a greater margin of freedom and respect for human rights. Proceeding from that frame of reference, the government  expresses and affirms before this august assembly its institutional conviction that education is an essential element in  sustainable human development, given that its role is to provide the socio-economic system with properly qualified  human resources. It is also an effective factor in the national policy for reducing poverty, laying the foundations for social  equity and the consolidation of democratic values and peace, both nationally and internationally, and represents a means  whereby knowledge useful for the maintenance of health and the preservation of the environment may be acquired.
(4.5) It was these convictions that induced the government to act upon the Jomtien Conference Framework for  Action, as expanded and made more specific in Dakar in April 2000. Thus, with the support of the sponsors of the  education for all programme, the government has made considerable efforts, culminating in the drafting and adoption of a  National Plan for Educational Development which has, moreover, received international support, having been presented  at the eighth Conference of Ministers of Education of African Member States last December in Dar es Salaam. The basic  characteristic of the preparation of this plan was the involvement of all those concerned with the country’s education:  government, representatives of religious institutions, principals of educational institutions, teachers, parents and students.  We would like once again to express our gratitude for the support we are receiving from UNESCO and the United  Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) for the organizing and holding in November of a round table on assistance to  Equatorial Guinea in the funding and implementation of the educational development measures provided for in the plan,  a meeting to which all interested bilateral and multilateral institutions are invited to attend.
(4.6) Education occupies an increasingly central and strategic place in our style of development; the future of  Equatorial Guinea, Africa and the developing countries in general depends on their position in the information and  knowledge society that is coming into being in the world. The changes taking place worldwide put knowledge in the  position of the main factor in nations’ competitivity. There is an ever-increasing demand in our countries for education as  a contributory factor in training citizens for integration into the social dynamic and for a fuller part in our cultural  identities, endowing them with the characteristics of receptivity towards, and capacity for, change. This makes it  important to maintain the validity of the concepts of quality and equity as criteria guiding and maintaining opportunities  for the development of the institutions responsible in our countries for the training of children and young people. If from  school onwards pupils are trained systematically and on an international basis so as to foster a scale of social values and  coherent attitudes based upon education, and if education manages to provide citizens with the means and the skills  required for the exercise of active, productive citizenship, then it will have fulfilled its role as a factor in the  transformation of our societies. Thank you very much.
5. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister. I congratulate your country on the efforts it is making. I now  invite the honourable Minister of Culture of Lithuania to take the floor.
6.1 Ms ŽAKAITIENĖ (Lithuania):  Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by expressing our  congratulations to the new President of the General Conference, Mr Omolewa. We are grateful to Mr Jalali, former  President of the General Conference, for his energy, creativity and successful leadership. Lithuania sincerely welcomes  the decision of Timor-Leste and the United States of America to join the largest world peace forum – UNESCO.
6.2 It is an honour for me to speak about pivotal initiatives by UNESCO on behalf of Lithuania, which has  always supported UNESCO in all its fields of activities. We believe that the proposed international convention for the  safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, declaration concerning the intentional destruction of cultural heritage,  international declaration on human genetic data, recommendation on the promotion and use of multilingualism and  universal access to cyberspace, and charter on the preservation of the digital heritage testify to UNESCO’s apt, flexible  and innovative approach to the most important and urgent issues concerning culture as an essential value of humanity.  Lithuania considers that there is a need to elaborate an international standard-setting instrument concerning cultural  diversity.
6.3 Preservation of cultural heritage is one of the main goals of Lithuanian national cultural policy. Lithuania has  always supported UNESCO’s quest to preserve world heritage – cultural and natural, tangible and intangible. Our  country already has well-established working relationships with the World Heritage Committee for the preservation of  Lithuanian heritage and promotion of the World Heritage Convention. Two sites – Vilnius old town and Curonian Spit  – are included in the World Heritage List. Monitoring of these two sites as well as other natural and cultural heritage  sites is one of the most important, indeed primary goals of Lithuania. As an expression of this dedication and continuing  involvement in the issues of preservation of cultural and natural heritage, Lithuania seeks membership in the World  Heritage Committee.
6.4 We also consider that a convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage is essential for all  countries as they face the impacts of the rapid development of information and communication technologies. It must be  understood that nothing can compensate for the extinction of invaluable forms of cultural expression. The loss of  traditional forms of human creativity would definitely impoverish humanity worldwide. Therefore, Lithuania fully  supports UNESCO’s conscious, responsible and sensitive approach to this most fragile part of our heritage.
6.5 Thinking about global-scale and international initiatives, UNESCO is indeed the driving force for nations to  take responsibility for cultural diversity and dialogue among civilizations worldwide. Lithuania highly appreciates the  opportunity to be part of this force. In June 2003 we organized the interregional project “Dialogue among Civilizations:  Caucasus”. It was the continuation of the International Conference “Dialogue among Civilizations”, held in April 2001  and attended by the Director-General. This year the dialogue took place between six countries of two distant regions –  Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia from the South Caucasus, and Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania from the Baltic. The  project was organized in collaboration with the Council of Europe. In addition to various cultural events, the  interregional round table issued recommendations. The draft resolution on South Caucasus and Baltic States  collaboration, based on these recommendations, is submitted to the General Conference for consideration.
6.6 Lithuania is aware of the importance of the knowledge society. Recently, the Lithuanian Government hosted  the first World Information Technology Forum (WITFOR), which was organized in Vilnius by the International  Federation for Information Processing under the auspices of UNESCO. The conference adopted the Vilnius Declaration,  which we believe should become an important tool in encouraging and inducing countries to choose the priorities of the  knowledge society. Among the major goals defined in this declaration are bridging the digital divide, ensuring freedom  of expression and respecting linguistic and cultural diversity. Another significant indication of Lithuania’s commitment  to UNESCO’s initiative to promote the development of the knowledge society worldwide is the recent appointment of  former Lithuanian President Mr Valdas Adamkus as UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for knowledge societies.
6.7 Scientific and technological innovations have profoundly marked the evolution of humankind throughout  history. However, if applied in irresponsible ways they might become a threat to humanity. Being well aware of this,  Lithuania supports UNESCO’s initiative to adopt an international declaration on human genetic data, and last year  organized an International Conference on Bioethics in Central and Eastern Europe. The Conference debated a wide  range of topics on bioethics. The proceedings of the Conference presented reports by the most eminent and regionally  recognized researchers and scientists.
6.8 I would also like to express Lithuania’s support for one of the most important UNESCO programmes,  Education for All. In a few weeks’ time the Lithuanian Ministry of Education and Science will host a subregional  conference, “Quality Education for All: Basic Competencies for Lifelong Learning. The European Dimension and the  Baltic Vision”.
6.9 Ladies and gentlemen, let me assure you that Lithuania is aware that only an integrated, flexible and  innovative approach can accomplish the desired results as we continue our work on many vital and relevant issues; we  therefore believe that by initiating a range of legal instruments, as mentioned above, as well as implementing its  programmes, UNESCO reinforces its role as a powerful international body for the promotion of essential human values  that will make the world a better place for every nation. Thank you very much.
(8.1) Mr SHALGHAM (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President, Mr Director-General,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, honoured guests, it gives me  great pleasure to greet you all, on behalf of the delegation of the Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, on the  occasion of the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. In addition, I am very pleased to compliment  Mr Michael Omolewa on his election as President of this session. I wish him all success in directing the work of the  Conference.
(8.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, there can be no doubt that our presence here in  this important international forum gives us an excellent opportunity to get to know one another and to exchange  experiences in this Organization’s fields of work. It also enables our experts to discover some examples of efforts that  Member States are making to improve their systems of education and science, and to learn about the humanitarian tasks  being undertaken by this Organization in helping developing States with issues relating to education, the protection and  maintenance of their cultural structures and institutions, and the transfer and exchange of knowledge in all forms. May I  also express my esteem for the efforts of the Secretariat and its regional and field offices in preparing the excellent Draft  Programme and Budget for the next biennium (2004-2005). It is gratifying that all the parties concerned, including  Member States, the Secretariat, National Commissions and governmental and non-governmental organizations, have  participated extensively in that task by submitting their suggestions and opinions, and the Secretariat deserves all due  appreciation for this work.
(8.3) Mr President, we in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are making great efforts to upgrade the educational process.  In recent years, we have drawn on UNESCO’s expertise in the form of consultation, studies on our education systems and  evaluation of those systems in cooperation with our national experts and of the outcomes of our local experience. The  results, if I may say so, have been outstanding. We have applied the new educational structure, which is a project aimed  at situating specialized education at the intermediate level, rather than at the general intermediate level, and we have  developed systems of technical and vocational education, covering all levels, along lines designed to meet the needs of  our development plans.
(8.4) Ladies and gentlemen, my country is closely following the efforts of the UNESCO Secretariat as it applies a  reformist approach to the task of improving its structure, adopts a new policy leading to the incorporation of an integrated  management data system and reviews the situation of the field offices. We encourage and support the Organization’s  work plan for implementing decentralization. However, we continue to feel that the lack of geographic balance in the  matter of staff appointments, and also in the matter of the use of contractual consultants, is most regrettable.
(8.5) We are deeply grieved at the destructive wars and conflicts that are raging in some regions of the world,  inevitably leaving a trail of loss of life and ruined educational and cultural institutions in their wake. We consider that the  principles, ideals and ethical values upheld by our Organization are in grave peril. The Constitution of UNESCO – which,  as you know, stands for tolerance, the renunciation of violence, encouragement for dialogue among cultures, intellectual  and moral solidarity among humanity and non-discrimination on the basis of race, sex or creed – is being openly and  flagrantly violated. Consequently, we must strive to give currency to the words of UNESCO’s Constitution, “Since wars  begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. It is the serious  responsibility and duty of all of us together to promote ethical ideals and tolerance and to encourage dialogue through our  programmes, cultural plans and educational curricula, and to use science and technology appropriately for peaceful ends.
(8.6) Ladies and gentlemen, the world is closely following the massive destruction and looting of cultural property  that has occurred in our sister country, Iraq. It is not the property of Iraqis alone that has suffered, but the cultural heritage  of all humanity. The safeguarding and preservation of these treasures are governed by international conventions of which  none can claim to be unaware, and responsibility for them rests with the international community, headed by UNESCO.  The destruction and looting in Iraq have been on a scale unprecedented in the history of the world. The various media  have presented us with an appalling and distressing portrayal of the massive violation of the sanctity of the cultural  property of a Member State of this Organization. We wish to take advantage of this forum to call for an effort to bring  about the return of that property, which is of incalculable historic value. It is part of humanity’s cultural heritage, and all  of us have a duty to preserve, maintain and protect it. We also call for the return of all cultural property stolen during  periods of colonialism, as required by the terms of the relevant international conventions. Furthermore, I call upon  imperialist States to remove the mines that they have planted. To date those mines have claimed large numbers of  innocent victims, including schoolchildren, and they continue to act as an impediment to the execution of development  projects such as schools, farms and industrial facilities in colonized States. My own country is one that has suffered  grievously from mines that were planted there during the Second World War.
(8.7) I am quite sure that you have followed and are continuing to follow the events that are taking place in the  Palestinian territories, including the killing of innocent, defenceless people, especially those of school age, repression, the  closing of universities, schools and other institutions, and the difficulty in attending in any case owing to the roadblocks  that are impeding the educational process. Palestinian schoolchildren are confronted by fear and intimidation.
(8.8) Ladies and gentlemen, my country has contributed to the Organization’s efforts to rewrite human histories. In  particular, it has contributed generously to the project for an encyclopaedic General History of Africa because it  considers that UNESCO’s initiative in that connection is praiseworthy. The completed work has now been published,  thanks to a network of researchers and specialists in the history of our continent. In addition, in recognition of the  Organization’s efforts in various scientific fields, including in particular the area of freshwater supply, in which it has  encouraged scientific research and studies, my country has offered an incentive in the form of the “Great Man-Made  River International Water Prize”. The Prize was instituted to mark the completion of the strategic Great Man-Made River  project that has been implemented by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya at the instance and under the guidance of Colonel  Moammar Gadhafi, the architect of the project, and it will be awarded for the second time in the course of this  Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you all.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. It is now my pleasure to invite the Deputy Head of the Government of the Russian Federation,  Her Excellency Ms Galina Karelova to the podium. You have the floor, Madam.
(10.1) Ms KARELOVA (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The current session of the General Conference is taking place in  international circumstances that require the global community to exert concerted and well-focused efforts to achieve  concrete results. Indeed, the dawning twenty-first century has brought with it serious new tests for the moral solidarity of  humankind, in the name of which UNESCO was founded and continues to act.
(10.2) Our Organization finds itself today, as does the entire United Nations system, faced with a stark choice – that  of proving equal to the challenges of the age or of occupying a not very attractive place of honour among the historical  relics of a receding era. It is therefore important to make a correct assessment of the results of the reform efforts under  way in recent times in UNESCO, especially under the initiative and leadership of Mr Matsuura, and it is naturally also  important to set out guidelines for further action. I should like to note that the report presented by the Director-General  and also, more generally, the work performed by the Secretariat during the period under review, in the opinion of the  Russian delegation, deserve acclaim. The main achievement, as we see it, is that consistent progress has been made in  modernizing UNESCO and making its action more effective.
(10.3) We have before us a clear strategic objective: to boost UNESCO’s impact on the formation of a stable and  predictable world order, to ensure sustainable development, and to pool forces in quest of a solution to the global  problems of humankind. The most important of these tasks – overcoming the threat of international terrorism – can and  must be solved by the global community in the twenty-first century, just as the global community was able in the  twentieth century to avert the global threats of totalitarianism and nuclear confrontation. Humankind has accumulated  relevant experience of joint action, and UNESCO has similarly broad experience in that regard.
(10.4) Now, with the return of the United States of America, which we heartily welcome, the Organization not only  has a considerably modernized apparatus, but has also recovered its original universality.
(10.5) Clearly, it is not enough to talk just of UNESCO’s peace-keeping contribution to the prevention and easing of  regional, ethnic and sectarian conflicts. We must think of providing all possible support, within the fields of competence  of the Organization, to all those who actually come into contact with international terrorism and who actively oppose it in  various regions of the world. In particular, we appreciate the readiness shown by UNESCO’s leadership to provide  Russia with concrete, tangible assistance for the execution of its national programme to reaffirm tolerance and restore the  education system in Chechnya. That kind of activity, it seems, needs to be carried out as part of special, integrated  programmes. The strategy to combat racism, discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance submitted to the  consideration of the General Conference at its current session is a step in the right direction. Terrorism is fed by extreme  poverty; therefore, the fight against that social phenomenon may be seen as another priority area of UNESCO’s work.  Intersectoral activity in that field needs to be substantially strengthened, and the circle of participants and partners  broadened.
(10.6) Another important area for UNESCO is the shaping of the knowledge society. The increased attention that is  proposed in the Draft Programme and Budget to determining the new social role of information and communication  technologies and, naturally, the development of the Internet, is therefore fully justified.
(10.7) Sociocultural, ethnic and humanitarian problems, and problems of scientific and technological progress and  processes of globalization must not become a new factor of disunity. For this reason, Russia is in favour of UNESCO’s  being actively involved in finding specific ways of minimizing the drawbacks of globalization, above all in the  humanitarian fields. At the same time, we prefer to speak not only of encouraging dialogue among cultures and  civilizations as alternatives to the new global opposition, but also of seeking a true partnership among then. One  manifestation of such a partnership might be the deliberate development of exchanges with a view to strengthening  linguistic diversity, which allows the mutually rewarding interaction of different civilizations.
(10.8) Dear colleagues, we also need to think about UNESCO’s future programme activities well in advance. The  outlook for world peace will be dim indeed if we fail to find an integrated, long-term solution to the question of the moral  and physical health of young people. I wish you all the best and every success. Thank you for your attention.
11. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Madam, for your interesting statement. I now invite the honourable Minister for  Foreign Affairs of Latvia, Ms Sandra Kalniete, to the rostrum.
12.1 Mme KALNIETE (Lettonie) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un grand  plaisir pour moi de retrouver tant de mes chers amis et collègues à l’UNESCO. Il y a peu encore, j’avais l’honneur de  représenter la Lettonie en qualité d’Ambassadeur de mon pays auprès de cette Organisation. J’ai pu ainsi constater  l’efficacité et le succès des réformes engagées par le Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, en ce qui concerne tant  l’organisation du Secrétariat que le choix des programmes d’action prioritaires. Permettez-moi aussi d’exprimer ma joie  devant le retour des États-Unis et l’adhésion du Timor-Leste à l’UNESCO. Celle-ci va s’en trouver enrichie non  seulement sur le plan financier, mais aussi et surtout sur le plan des ressources humaines  et des possibilités en matière  de coopération et d’action commune.
12.2 En premier lieu, je tiens à souligner l’importance de l’action menée par l’UNESCO dans les zones en  situation de postconflit. Ses efforts contribuent à restaurer un climat de confiance et l’esprit de tolérance, ainsi qu’à  assurer la survie des valeurs culturelles. L’UNESCO a un rôle primordial à jouer face aux défis du XXIe siècle : faire  barrage à la violence et enseigner la tolérance.
12.3 La résolution relative à l’élaboration d’une convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa 31e session a eu un retentissement considérable dans notre  société. Pays de taille modeste, mais doté d’un riche patrimoine culturel, la Lettonie a insisté à maintes reprises sur la  nécessité d’un tel instrument. Lors d’une réunion des ambassadeurs européens sur la protection du patrimoine culturel  immatériel organisée par la délégation permanente de l’Italie auprès de l’UNESCO le 12 septembre dernier, le Ministre  de la culture de Lettonie a eu l’honneur de présenter sa politique de préservation de ce patrimoine, en mettant en  exergue le rôle que celle-ci joue dans l’affirmation de l’identité nationale lettone. Aussi, ai-je été particulièrement ravie  d’apprendre de la bouche du Sous-Directeur général pour la culture, M. Bouchenaki, que l’expérience lettone donnait  un contenu concret aux discussions sur la future convention concernant le patrimoine culturel immatériel. Je suis fière  que la pratique lettone, fondée sur des mesures d’appui aux institutions gouvernementales et municipales, et sur un  système éducatif encourageant le développement culturel, puisse être une source d’inspiration pour d’autres États.
12.4 Dans nos efforts pour préserver notre patrimoine immatériel, nous sommes très proches de nos voisins -  l’Estonie et la Lituanie. En réponse à l’appel lancé par l’UNESCO pour que les États membres identifient les chefs-
244  d’œuvre de leur patrimoine culturel immatériel, les trois pays baltes ont soumis un projet commun, intitulé « Les  traditions nationales des festivals de chant et de danse en Estonie, Lettonie et Lituanie et leur symbolisme ». Afin de  faire partager son expérience, la Lettonie projette d’organiser avec le concours de l’UNESCO une conférence  internationale sur des thèmes se rapportant au patrimoine culturel immatériel à Riga en 2005.
12.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, la qualité de l’environnement - physique, immatériel ou spirituel - et le  développement équilibré, constituent ensemble l’une des pierres angulaires de notre avenir. Dans le cadre du  Programme « l’Éducation pour tous », le Système des écoles associées et le mouvement mondial en faveur de  l’éducation pour tous sont en plein essor en Lettonie. Les objectifs mondiaux et les actions stratégiques définis dans le  cadre de ce programme ont été incorporés dans la Stratégie nationale pour le développement de l’éducation en 2002-
2005. Le rapport final du Forum mondial sur l’éducation de Dakar en 2000 a donné lieu à un large débat en Lettonie. En  septembre dernier, le Gouvernement letton a signé un décret relatif au Forum national pour l’éducation pour tous. Ce  texte confère au Forum le statut de conseil consultatif au sein du gouvernement, établissant ainsi un lien entre celui-ci et  la société civile, ainsi qu’avec les partenaires internationaux.
12.6 Plusieurs manifestations internationales se sont tenues à Riga ces derniers temps, faisant de notre capitale un  centre régional de l’enseignement comme de la recherche. De plus notre coopération avec la Division des sciences  fondamentales et des sciences de l’ingénieur de l’UNESCO a trouvé son couronnement dans l’octroi de bourses de  l’UNESCO à sept universitaires lettons pour le développement de partenariats internationaux dans le domaine de la  recherche fondamentale.
12.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, pour garantir la qualité de l’environnement et un développement équilibré, il  importe que nous engagions une réflexion sur l’éthique des sciences et sur la diffusion de l’information. C’est pourquoi  la Lettonie attache beaucoup d’importance à sa participation aux travaux du Comité intergouvernemental de bioéthique  de l’UNESCO. Une loi relative à la recherche sur le génome humain entrera en vigueur dans mon pays le 1er janvier
2004. De même, c’est avec un grand intérêt que la Lettonie attend le prochain Sommet mondial sur la société de  l’information qui se tiendra à Genève en décembre 2003 et Tunis en 2005.
12.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, en Lettonie, le nom de l’UNESCO revient souvent dans les débats sur la mise en  valeur du centre historique de la ville de Riga, qui est inscrit sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial. Les experts de  l’UNESCO ont pris une part décisive à la planification de ce projet. Tout dernièrement, le Parlement letton a adopté une  loi sur la protection et la préservation de ce même centre historique, dont il existe peu d’équivalents. L’UNESCO  devrait inviter d’autres pays à envisager l’adoption d’une telle loi dans les années à venir. À nos yeux, la diversité  culturelle doit aller de pair avec l’égalité entre toutes les nations, grandes ou petites, en matière de droits et de devoirs.  Nous suivrons avec intérêt le travail que l’UNESCO s’apprête à accomplir en 2004-2005 dans ce domaine. Nous  sommes favorables à l’élaboration d’un nouvel instrument normatif international.
12.9 La Lettonie veut faire entendre sa voix pour soutenir l’Europe dans ses efforts pour ranimer ses grands  idéaux communs et mobilisateurs et agir en conformité avec eux. Alors que le projet d’élargissement de l’Europe n’en  était encore qu’au stade préparatoire, le Président de la Commission européenne, M. Romano Prodi, avait déclaré que,  au-delà de tous les petits projets, il fallait entreprendre de reconstruire « une âme pour l’Europe ». Le Président de la  République tchèque, Vaclav Havel, a souligné que la tâche la plus importante pour l’Europe au XXIe siècle sera de «  forger une image nouvelle et authentique de ce que l’on pourrait appeler l’identité européenne ». Je vous remercie de  votre attention.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive statement. I now invite the honourable Minister for  Education, Youth and Culture of Jamaica, Her Excellency Ms Maxine Henry-Wilson, to the rostrum.
14.1 Ms HENRY-WILSON (Jamaica):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, Jamaica wishes to add its congratulations to you, Mr President, on your election, which has already been  justified by the able manner in which you have been conducting the proceedings of this highly important gathering. Let  me join also in commending the hardworking staff of UNESCO, who have made every effort to organize this General  Conference in the impressive manner that we see here today. Jamaica would like to add its welcome to Timor-Leste,  which has joined this august Organization, and to the United States of America on its return. In making our contribution  today, we feel like a most-favoured nation owing to the signal honour conferred upon it of hosting a working visit by  the Director-General to Jamaica in May of this year.
14.2 Mr President, in its very eventful existence thus far, UNESCO can proudly accept the accolades of the global  family of nations for its worthy contribution to the advancement of mankind. This contribution the Organization has
245  made through its tireless efforts in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. Jamaica can give  eloquent testimony to this far-reaching work. We in Jamaica have enthusiastically embraced the Education for All (EFA)  concept with the six agreed Dakar goals, which now underpin the strategic objectives of our education system. In  keeping with these objectives, we have established certain minimum targets, many of which we are closer to achieving.  These include full enrolment of the early childhood (four and five year-olds) age cohort by the year 2003; 90% average  daily attendance at the primary level by 2005; 80% of all those completing grade 6 to demonstrate full literacy by 2003;
15% enrolment rate in tertiary education by 2005, as agreed in concert with member nations of the Caribbean  Community (CARICOM); a minimum of one computer per primary school, linked to the Internet or provided with  encyclopaedia and other learning software; a satisfactory level of physical infrastructure in all schools by 2010; and,  importantly, the piloting this year of a High School Equivalency scheme for those regarded as “drop-outs” from the  traditional school system.
14.3 But even as we strive to achieve these targets, Mr President, we acknowledge the difficulties posed by our  resource constraints. Jamaica has to commit nearly 60% of its Gross Domestic Product to debt repayment. Despite this,  we continue to signal the importance of education for all Jamaicans by allocating to education the largest slice of what  remains of our national budget. We are determined to mobilize our national energies and intellect to meet all our  education goals in the short term. We do not pretend that we will achieve all these objectives, but we will do our utmost  to achieve them. We look forward to sharing useful and practical ideas and experiences with colleagues in the vibrant  exchange of information during the planned Ministerial Round Table on Quality Education.
14.4 Jamaica, like so many other countries, is engaged in building a knowledge society. Information and  communication technology (ICT) has become a basic building block of modern society. We believe that mastering basic  ICT skills and concepts is part of the core of education, alongside reading, writing and numeracy. We share the logic  evident in UNESCO’s focus on the need to foster equitable access to information and knowledge for development and  promote freedom of expression and the development of communication. We also see the logic in preferring the concept  of knowledge societies to that of information societies and anticipate full participation in the World Summit on the  Information Society, which is being coordinated by UNESCO and the International Telecommunication Union and will  be held in Geneva (2003) and in Tunis (2005).
14.5 We strongly believe that all the gains from the production of intellectual properties arising from the  development of communication and information technologies will benefit mankind little unless they are harnessed to  the general good of the larger number of people, especially those mired in poverty. We feel emboldened by UNESCO’s  own insistence in this regard. As a companion to this challenge, we suggest, Mr President, that as we pursue strategies  responding to the imperative need to construct a knowledge society, we should start with a critical constituency – young  people. We are aware that we are not alone in Jamaica in our deep concern for the welfare of our children as we face  budgetary constraints that limit State-funded social programmes, including access to quality education and health. As  more mothers go out to work, there are increasing problems concerning the protection of children, sexual molestation  and violence against and among children in our societies.
14.6 Mr President, Jamaica takes great comfort in UNESCO’s recognition of the need and its support for the  creation of an international strategic partnership to enhance means of communication. Member States quite rightly look  to UNESCO for guidance and support in formulating and adopting integrated communication and information policies.  In addition, UNESCO’s advice is seen as critical for the establishment of media legislation that will promote access to  information and ultimately freedom of expression, human rights and democracy. It is a source of pride to us in Jamaica  that we are well advanced in promulgating an Access to Information Act, a process with which I was fully involved in  my previous assignment as Minister of Information in the Office of the Prime Minister.
14.7 Jamaica intends to participate as fully as possible in marking the International Year to Commemorate the  Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition next year. We take special note of plans by our sister Caribbean nation of  Haiti to celebrate, at the same time, the 200th anniversary of the death of Haiti’s founding father, Toussaint Louverture,  who led the struggle for the liberation of his people. Jamaica wishes to lend its support to the proposal for the creation  of an international prize in honour of this Haitian hero who represents the spirit of courage, self-sacrifice and example  in bequeathing to the Caribbean its first free black society. At the same time, Jamaica is happy to note that the project  on the History of the Caribbean is nearing completion, and that provision has been made in the Draft Programme and  Budget for the next stage – the preparation of texts for schools and their popularization.
14.8 In conclusion, Mr President and distinguished colleagues, Jamaica continues to be cognizant of the historic  burden placed on UNESCO as a beacon of hope and a torch that lights the way for creating the structures of peace, and  for the educational, scientific and cultural development of this planet on which we are placed but for a short time. In our  hands lie the possibilities for enriching and strengthening our common humanity. We are confident that, under the  leadership of this agency, we will continue to reform and position ourselves to ensure that this and the next generation
246  of the world’s children will inherit a positive and productive view of themselves and of a world in which they can find  peace, happiness and prosperity through opportunities for all. I thank you very much.
(16.1) Mr YAKHLEF (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):   Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to offer you Palestine’s  compliments on your election as President of this Conference, an honour which you well deserved. In addition, I am  pleased to offer my congratulations to those States that have joined UNESCO at this session, and to express my  admiration and high regard for this international Organization, which defends peace and justice, protects human values  and cultural ethics, and works to affirm democracy and human rights.
(16.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to you from occupied Palestine, the Holy Land, which is being subjected  to the most appalling forms of aggression at the hands of the Israeli occupation authorities. Harsh collective punishments  have been imposed upon our people, from closures, blockades and prohibitions on travel between towns, villages and  refugee camps to assassination operations and killings. All our windows on life have been closed: education has been  paralysed, as has cultural life. I do not have the time to give you a detailed account of the suffering that is being inflicted  on hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren and university students and their teachers, nor to tell you at length about the  destruction of cultural centres, archaeological sites and museums. The numerous reports that we have submitted to  UNESCO and our urgent appeals to the Director-General and the World Heritage Committee documenting the situation  are there in the Organization’s records. Crowning this Israeli policy are the construction of an apartheid wall to isolate  and enclose Palestinian areas and turn them into isolated islands, and an aggressive decision to expel President Arafat,  who is the elected head of the Palestinian people. As you know, the United Nations General Assembly has rejected this  Israeli decision.
(16.3) The Israeli occupation is the basic obstacle to development, knowledge, culture, education, economic  prosperity and, indeed, to all aspects of life. It is the duty of all who love peace, possess wisdom, are in favour of justice  and cherish freedom to raise their voices to urge the international community to bring the hateful Israeli occupation to an  end. We ask them to bring pressure to bear on the Israeli Government to comply with the agreements it has signed with  the Palestine Liberation Organization and the relevant international covenants that have been adopted by the Security  Council and the United Nations General Assembly, and to open the doors of hope to the Palestinian people, that they may  enjoy freedom and independence. It is also incumbent upon this international Organization to make its voice heard, above  the voices of hatred, selfishness and war, above the voices of domination, colonialism and subjugation, and above the  Israeli policies of aggression which are being used to create expansionist facts at the expense of Palestinian rights and to  impose the option of war and destruction, rather than a policy of negotiation, conflict resolution and political means.
(16.4) The Palestinian people very much appreciate the moral support that UNESCO has provided and continues to  provide in its struggle to achieve liberation and establish an independent Palestinian State. The Palestinian people look  forward to joining the international community and its free democratic institutions, and to playing an effective role in  contributing to the service of humanity and the strengthening of international security and peace. Accordingly, the  Palestine Liberation Organization wishes to thank those States that supported Palestine’s application for admission to full  membership of UNESCO.
(16.5) We should also like to ask the General Conference to support the proposal of the Director-General of  UNESCO concerning the development and strengthening of the UNESCO Programme for Palestine in the framework of  all budgets, so that we can rebuild our schools, cultural institutions, educational facilities and universities, which have  been destroyed, entirely or in part, by the Israeli occupation forces. The destruction has encompassed the human cultural  heritage in the city of Jerusalem and the old quarters of Nablus, Bethlehem and Hebron. We take advantage of this forum  to announce that we are committed to the cultural and educational policies developed by this Organization, and that we  are in favour of entrusting the Director-General with responsibility for preparing a draft convention on cultural diversity.  We also support the convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, and the Arabia Plan for Arab  cultural development. We reaffirm the importance of the use of the Arabic language as a working language within  UNESCO.
(16.6) In conclusion, we reiterate our commitment to democratic values, pluralism and human rights, and our  commitment to the political process of negotiation, which will lead to a just and comprehensive peace in Palestine and  the Middle East, based on law and legitimate, internationally binding resolutions. I thank you.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, your Excellency, President of the Higher Council of Education and Culture of  Palestine, for your excellent, very informative statement. I would now like to invite the honourable Minister of  Education and Research Affairs of Norway, Madam Kristin Clemet, to the rostrum.
18.1 Ms CLEMET (Norway):  Thank you. Mr. President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, I would first like to join previous speakers  in welcoming the United States of America back to UNESCO, and also extend a heartfelt welcome to Timor-Leste.  Norway strongly supports UNESCO’s efforts to create the ethical, educational, cultural and scientific backdrop to a  sustainable future. Recent acts of terrorism have challenged global security and solidarity. We must face this challenge,  and tailor UNESCO’s efforts accordingly. The Prime Minister of Norway was co-sponsor of the international  conference on terrorism held in New York last week, where the role of education in promoting tolerance and mutual  respect was underlined and UNESCO’s important role highlighted.
18.2 Education is crucial to our efforts to eradicate poverty and build democracy. As regards education for all,  UNESCO deserves credit for its work on the Global Monitoring Report, which clearly states that the Dakar goals will  not be met unless all stakeholders intensify their efforts. We have only two years left to meet the goal of gender equity.  The Nordic countries have decided to adopt a common approach in their work to support UNESCO in its efforts to meet  Education for All goals by 2015. We are now in the process of finalizing a Memorandum of Understanding with  UNESCO on this issue. In the EFA process the focus has been on access and basic education and we are pleased to see  UNESCO now focusing on quality education for all. At the same time, access to secondary and higher education is  extremely limited in many countries, and this should be given more attention. Comprehensive planning is a key factor  in shaping education systems.
18.3 I am very pleased that the proposed draft resolution on higher education and globalization received such  broad support during the debate yesterday in Commission II. I look forward to seeing the Organization playing a  leading role in this very important area. The now 50-year-old Associated Schools Project Network has proved  sustainable. It promotes quality education for all and teaches young people to understand and enjoy the rich cultural  diversity of our globe. Nordic participants in the Youth Forum would like to see the Forum established on a more  permanent basis. In my opinion we should consider this idea when planning future general conferences.
18.4 Mr President, science is of paramount importance in the efforts to achieve sustainable development and  eradicate poverty. However, the rapid advances in science and technology raise new ethical issues with social and  human implications. Norway strongly supports UNESCO’s normative role in these fields and considers that ethical  issues concerning access to fresh water must be a priority. As Chair of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable  Development, Norway will encourage all partners to keep water as a priority on the political agenda. We support the  United Nations agencies in implementing the Millennium Development Goals and the goals of the World Summit on  Sustainable Development. The keywords are water resource management, water supply and sanitation. We believe that  UNESCO must take immediate action to fully mobilize all relevant partners and stakeholders.
18.5 Mr President, during this session of the General Conference, several normative instruments in the field of  culture and communication will be discussed, which all address the issues of diversity, access and cultural identity.  Norway believes that UNESCO should develop an international convention to promote and protect the diversity of  cultural content and artistic expression. This is well within the Organization’s mandate: protection of diversity requires  recognition of the special status of cultural goods and services. Two key principles are of prime importance to us – the  promotion of domestic cultural expression and openness to other cultures – and we believe that there must be a balance  between them.
18.6 Norway supports the adoption of the international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible heritage,  which is an important source of cultural identity and diversity. The challenge for UNESCO and the States Parties will  be to ensure that the new convention, together with the 1972 Convention, constitute a holistic approach to cultural  heritage. Norway is a candidate for election to the World Heritage Committee. We wish to contribute to the follow-up  of the Global Strategy, as outlined at the General Assembly of States Parties to the Convention held in 1999. We must  work towards a thematically and geographically balanced World Heritage List. The Nordic World Heritage Foundation  was established by the Government of Norway, in cooperation with its Nordic partners, to support the implementation  of the 1972 Convention. The Foundation has supported several projects in developing countries. Norway hopes that this  General Conference will grant the Foundation the status of regional centre.
18.7 Mr President, we congratulate the Director-General on the results of his reform efforts. UNESCO is a leaner,  more focused organization than it was a few years ago. However, there are still areas that could be improved. We would  like to see the Executive Board reformed in terms of its size and working methods, and we also believe that longer
249  programme and budget periods should be considered. The world community needs an effective, relevant and responsive  UNESCO. Thank you for listening.
(20.1) Mr AL SHARHAN (United Arab Emirates) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and  blessings of God be upon you all. I should like to begin by joining those who have spoken before me in offering my  congratulations to Mr Omolewa on his election as President of the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO,  and in expressing my high regard and esteem for Mr Jalali, the previous President. I knew that Mr Jalali was a poet and  philosopher, but I did not know that he had a beautiful voice, which has been unanimously acclaimed in this Organization.  I should also like to thank Ms Aziza Bennani, the Chairperson of the Executive Board, who represents the best qualities  of Arab womanhood, and all the Members of the Board, as well as the Director-General and his colleagues of the  Secretariat, for their sterling efforts aimed at furthering the work of this Organization and enabling it to attain its noble  goals.
(20.2) I should like to take this opportunity to emphasize the fact that the United Arab Emirates intends to support  UNESCO’s efforts to broaden the scope of dialogue among cultures and civilizations and to strengthen pluralism and  respect for cultural diversity, in accordance with the international agreements to which all peoples have subscribed, in the  service of sustainable development. May I also take this opportunity to say how pleased we are that the United States of  America has returned to take up its natural place in the Organization. Its presence among us will strengthen UNESCO’s  role and enhance the international rule of law.
(20.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the final years of the second millennium have been marked by the emergence of hope  in a human future of mutual understanding and cooperation among all people for a life free of racism and intolerance.  Despite this, calls for a “clash of civilizations” have grown steadily louder and stronger, opening the door to extremism  and fanaticism of all kinds and giving rise to errors, misconceptions and short-sighted policies, with the result that the  global environment has become filled with tension, violence and destruction. It is incumbent upon the world’s intellectual  institutions, led by UNESCO, to play their appropriate role in combating this intellectual pollution, which is carrying our  world away from the noble objectives of peace.
(20.4) In this context, the delegation of the United Arab Emirates would like to note the following facts. First, global  civilization represents a mixture of various human cultural interactions. It is the outcome of human relationships through  the ages, ever since God created the world and those who dwell in it. All civilizations and cultures, Eastern, Western and  Arab, have contributed to the shaping of human thought and the forming of human values and principles. The active  contributions of Arab and Islamic civilization to human civilizations are well known. Secondly, terrorism is a global  phenomenon; it is not the monopoly of any single mindset, nationality, nation or religion, and absolutely cannot be  identified with any single identity or creed. Most of the victims of terrorism have been from the Arab and Islamic world.  Thirdly, world peace is an integral whole that is not subject to double standards and concepts. The security and safety of  one people cannot be established at the expense of the security and safety of another people, and there cannot be peace  under occupation. The victim cannot reasonably be asked to ensure the safety of his executioner. Consequently, the  delegation of the United Arab Emirates wishes to emphasize that it is essential for the Israeli occupation of the  Palestinian territories to be brought to an end, for the Palestinian people to be allowed to exercise its right of self- determination and establish an independent State, and for the refugees to return to their homes. My delegation also calls  once again for the admission of Palestine as a full member of UNESCO.
(20.5) The cultural heritage, over and above its value as a symbol of self-identity, is a human inheritance that is of  concern to all. For that reason, we again urge UNESCO to intervene vigorously to put a stop to efforts aimed at altering  the Palestinian cultural features of the city of Jerusalem. May we point out that the resolutions of the last General  Conference and the decisions that the Executive Board has repeatedly adopted on the matter have remained without effect  to this day? The United Arab Emirates strongly supports UNESCO’s declaration on the intentional destruction of the  cultural heritage. Such destruction represents a crime against the common heritage of humanity. Nor can we speak of  Jerusalem and its heritage without mentioning Iraq and its heritage as well. Here, too, our Organization is called upon to  do everything in its power to save and preserve what remains of Iraq’s heritage, which belongs to you all. We also urge  support for the Iraqi people as they seek to rehabilitate their educational, scientific and cultural institutions.
(20.6) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with respect to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005, the  delegation of the United Arab Emirates is pleased with the approach adopted by the Secretariat, and welcomes the  positive steps that have been taken to implement the Organization’s far-reaching programme of reform and to broaden the  scope of reforms already undertaken with a view to attaining UNESCO’s objectives more effectively. In particular, I  should like to note the following points. In the first place, high priority has been given to the Education Sector, and  substantial resources have been allocated to it. Education is the foundation stone of prosperity and economic growth and  a determinant of poverty eradication and sustainable development. In that connection, at the Executive Board session that  began before the General Conference, my delegation submitted a draft decision entitled “South-South solidarity in the  field of education”, which attracted virtual consensus. We know that Southern countries possess great capacities in that  field, which could be activated to achieve education for all and eradicate illiteracy. I should like to take this opportunity  to thank the Director-General for his favourable report on the establishment of a Regional Educational Planning Centre in  the United Arab Emirates under the auspices of UNESCO. We are confident that the Centre will play an important role in  attaining UNESCO’s objectives in the field of education in the Gulf region. In the second place, a good deal of attention  has been devoted to national capacity-building in the field of the basic sciences, environmental protection and the rational  management of natural resources, especially water resources, with a view to coping with the challenges in that area in the  light of the resolutions adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg. In speaking of  sustainable development, of course, we are affirming the need to be concerned with the concepts of sustainable identity  and sustainable cultures, indeed, sustainable societies, as well. In the third place, some new technologies have generated  strange forms of behaviour and outlook that in most cases have been accompanied by reduced scope for human values  and ethical principles. This is a matter that required addressing through the adoption of a public education programme  designed to raise awareness of the adverse impact of misuse of these technologies. In the fourth place, the Culture Sector  programmes for the coming biennium constitute a foundation stone in the construction of the defences of peace in the  minds of men, thanks to their designated objectives of fostering dialogue among cultures and creating conditions that are  propitious for such dialogue, encouraging pluralism, and strengthening the links between culture and development. There  can be no doubt that the preparation of a Convention on cultural diversity, one that affirms that all cultures and religions  are of equal dignity, represents an important mechanism for the strengthening of peace and constructive dialogue among  all peoples. The United Arab Emirates has demonstrated its determination to assign great importance to cultural diversity  and the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage by founding two awards that have had significant resonance  within UNESCO, namely, the Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan Prize for oral and intangible heritage and the Sharjah  Prize for Arab Culture.
(20.7) Ladies and gentlemen, in today’s world, dominated as it is by tensions, assailed by conflicts and swept by the  forces of extremism and terrorism, all of the forces for good must walk hand in hand to usher in a world of peace, such as  all Scriptures have called for and all prophets have proclaimed. I thank you, and I wish you all success.
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much for your statement, Your Excellency, and I wish to congratulate your country for the  important work it is doing for the people. I would now like to invite the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia  and Herzegovina, Her Excellency Ms Lidija Topič, to the rostrum.
22.1 Ms TOPIĆ (Bosnia and Herzegovina):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of  delegations, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to the  distinguished representative of Nigeria, His Excellency Mr Michael Abiola Omolewa, on his unanimous election as  President of the General Conference. I am convinced that, under the very able leadership and wise guidance of  Mr Omolewa, all of us present here will endeavour to bring this session to a successful conclusion. I would also like to  take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the previous President, His Excellency Mr Ahmad Jalali, who for the last  two years has been inspiring worldwide, in word and in song, in his original and brilliant way, spreading the beauty and  nobility of the UNESCO spirit, which is the sense of belonging to the quest for the same ideal, despite the differences.
22.2 Allow me also to welcome the United States of America back to the fold of the Organization. We look  forward to working with you again in UNESCO. I am also pleased to welcome the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
22.3 Mr President, in the over fifty years of its existence, UNESCO has made a great contribution to peace by  promoting mutual understanding and international cooperation throughout the world. The Organization has also made a  significant impact on the educational, scientific and cultural development of its Member States, and on the development  of respect for human rights and human dignity. The 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO is being held  at a time when we share more than ever a vision of global solidarity and common safety. But differences still remain.  Access to quality education and quality health care is unfortunately far from being available to all. The benefits of  modern science and participation in cyberspace are on only one side of the digital divide. To meet the challenges, today  more than ever, the Organization is expected to reinforce the right to education, strengthen international, scientific and  intellectual cooperation, protect the cultural heritage and, finally, broaden access to information and knowledge in the  public domain.
22.4 An extremely important and indeed fundamental issue within UNESCO’s fields of competence is certainly  education. The problems and challenges of education today are as serious as ever and are to be found in all parts of the  world. They demand the undertaking of resolute and efficient actions in order to prevent or at least to decrease poverty,  disease, insecurity and environmental degradation. All of us should take individual and collective responsibility in  addressing these problems.
22.5 Mr President, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are determined to undertake and implement complex reforms.  In carrying out these reforms, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina strongly adheres to the values of  democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We also attach importance to the reform and modernization of education  in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is our firm belief that, by observing the individual as well as the collective right to  receive education in one’s own language and alphabet, we will enhance mutual dialogue and tolerance, with a view to  preserving the multicultural society of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
22.6 At the same time, Bosnia and Herzegovina is determined to make the fullest contribution to improving  relations in the region and to promoting peace, understanding and cooperation. We continue to participate in all the  initiatives and programme activities of UNESCO, thus creating conditions for mutual cooperation among peoples and  opening up new perspectives for building a culture of peace and tolerance. Developing and broadening new scientific  and technological ideas, as well as preserving the cultural heritage, are also among our priorities.
22.7 In this context Bosnia and Herzegovina welcomes the ever-greater interest of the Organization in the region  of South-East Europe and its more coherent and systematic strategy directed at improving existing forms of cooperation,  thereby establishing new avenues for scientific cooperation in this part of Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina has  emphasized on several occasions how highly it values the role, importance and work of UNESCO’s Regional Bureau  for Science in Venice as a centre for the advancement of regional cooperation among the countries of the region. We are  of the opinion that this office will prove to be particularly important in the coming period.
22.8 We also welcome the activities of the World Heritage Committee and its global strategy for a balanced and  representative World Heritage List and, in this context, we wish to express our hope that the Old Town of Mostar will  be inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. An extraordinary example of UNESCO’s assistance and presence in  Bosnia and Herzegovina is its assistance in rebuilding the Old Bridge in Mostar, an undertaking initiated by UNESCO  which represents not only the restoration work proper, but carries with it the important symbolism of re-establishing  broken ties and dialogue between different nations. In this context, I would like to inform you about the initiative of the
253  Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to organize a regional forum on the date of the Old Bridge reconstruction  ceremony in Mostar next summer. This will not only provide an extraordinary opportunity for an exchange of views  about modalities for the further improvement of mutual relations, but also send a clear message about our readiness to  further promote dialogue, stability and prosperity. We plan a ceremony that will once more express our will to surmount  our differences, building bridges not only to cross rivers, but to unite people. The message which will be sent is that the  Old Bridge in Mostar is a meeting point of different cultures, different traditions, and that a solution can be found to any  lack of understanding anywhere in the world. The Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dr Dragan  Čović, proposed to the United Nations General Assembly in New York last week that this project should become a  symbol of unity in the next year. We invite all of you to give your support to this initiative.
22.9 Mr President, I would like, finally, to take this opportunity to thank all the devoted men and women working  at the UNESCO Office in Sarajevo for all they have done during their nine years of work and presence in Bosnia and  Herzegovina. Once again I express regret for UNESCO’s phasing out of its presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but  remain convinced that cooperation will but be furthered. Numerous projects and activities undertaken in the post-war  rehabilitation and reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which UNESCO has had a very significant place,  clearly demonstrate that UNESCO’s support for creating an environment for lasting peace, more rapid development and  prosperity is indeed irreplaceable. I express special thanks for the valuable support given by UNESCO to the ARS  AEVI Museum Centre for Contemporary Art in Sarajevo.
22.10 In conclusion, I would like once again to reaffirm the commitment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities  to further cooperation with UNESCO. The principal goals of this Organization and of my country coincide and together  we shall do our best in our endeavour to create a more just society with due respect for the rights of all. Thank you for  your attention.
23.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Madam, for your comprehensive and interesting statement. We are delighted by the  fruitful work you are doing for your country. Honourable Ministers, heads of delegation, ladies and gentlemen, we  received a letter this morning from the delegation of Dominica, which reads as follows: “(1) Mr Nicholas Liverpool, our  Representative on the Executive Board, was inaugurated as President of Dominica yesterday, 2 October 2003. He sends  his best wishes to you. (2) Regrettably, Mr Roosevelt Skerrit, Minister of Education, Sports and Youth Affairs was  unable to travel to Paris due to an emergency and will not be present to deliver his speech today, 3 October 2003.” I  shall inform you as soon as I receive further information on the participation of Dominica in our debate.
23.2 It is now my pleasure to invite Her Excellency Ms Rafiatou Karimou, the Minister of Primary and Secondary  Education of Benin, to take the floor.
24.1 Mme KARIMOU (Bénin) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Honorables délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord, à la suite des distingués  délégués qui m’ont précédée à cette tribune, féliciter chaleureusement le Président de notre Conférence générale pour sa  brillante élection. Comment ne pas éprouver un sentiment légitime de fierté pour l’Afrique entière devant la confiance  que tous les États membres ici présents ont bien voulu lui accorder à travers le Nigéria, pays frère et voisin. Monsieur le  Président, nous sommes convaincus que vous vous acquitterez de votre tâche avec compétence, sagesse et dignité.  Permettez-moi ensuite de féliciter tout particulièrement Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et de la remercier, au  nom des membres de la délégation du Bénin, pour la façon remarquable dont elle s’acquitte de sa mission. Enfin, je  voudrais féliciter et remercier le Directeur général de l’UNESCO pour son dévouement et pour les efforts soutenus qu’il  ne cesse de déployer à la tête du Secrétariat de notre Organisation.
24.2 Monsieur le Président, le retour des États-Unis d’Amérique au sein de l’UNESCO et l’adhésion du Timor- Leste nous font faire un pas décisif vers l’idéal d’universalité qui est la base même de la constitution de notre  Organisation. Nous félicitons les deux États et les exhortons à travailler avec sagesse et détermination et de concert avec  tous les autres membres de la famille de l’UNESCO à la réalisation des nobles objectifs de notre Organisation.
24.3 À l’instar de la 31e session de la Conférence générale tenue au lendemain des événements tragiques du 11  septembre 2001, la 32e session entame ses travaux dans une période critique, six mois à peine après le déclenchement  des opérations en Iraq. Que dire des conséquences des destructions d’un patrimoine millénaire tant apprécié de  l’humanité et de toutes les souffrances résultant des nombreuses pertes en vies humaines, sinon qu’elles démontrent la  pertinence de l’UNESCO et de ses idéaux de paix ainsi que la nécessité, de nos jours, de réinventer un système des  Nations Unies plus solidaire ? Mon pays voudrait ici remercier le Directeur général pour la promptitude de ses réactions  face à cette situation de crise et l’encourager à œuvrer de toutes ses forces à la reconstruction du système éducatif et à la
254  restauration du patrimoine dans ce pays, comme dans d’autres pays en situation de conflit au Moyen-Orient et en  Afrique.
24.4 Monsieur le Président, le Bénin se félicite de l’excellence des relations qui le lient à l’UNESCO et qui se sont  traduites, entre autres, par la visite officielle que M. Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général, a faite à Cotonou du 21 au 22  novembre 2002. Au nom du Gouvernement et du peuple béninois, je tiens à lui renouveler notre sincère gratitude pour  l’excellente qualité de cette coopération. L’UNESCO s’emploie chaque jour à promouvoir la paix dans le monde, par  les efforts qu’elle déploie dans ses domaines de compétence. Le Bénin voudrait faire siennes les principales priorités  contenues dans les grands programmes proposés dans le 32 C/5. À cet égard et sans entrer dans les détails, je voudrais  insister sur le renforcement du Comité consultatif de l’UNESCO pour le NEPAD qui devra désormais servir de cadre  général de coopération entre les pays africains et notre Organisation. Dans le même ordre d’idées, il faudra également  renforcer les capacités du Département Afrique de l’UNESCO en le dotant de moyens humains et financiers adéquats.  C’est dire que ce Département doit demeurer le maître d’œuvre de cette coopération de type nouveau. Le Bénin se  réjouit aussi des résultats de la récente réunion, tenue à Dakar, sur le renforcement des capacités des institutions de  formation de formateurs et des centres d’excellence en Afrique subsaharienne. Nous invitons le Directeur général à  traduire en actes les résultats de ces assises, tout en mettant un accent particulier sur la formulation d’une politique de la  science et la rénovation du système d’enseignement supérieur et de la recherche, condition incontournable pour un  développement durable en Afrique.
24.5 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de l’éducation, fidèle aux engagements pris par la communauté  internationale en avril 2000 à Dakar, le Bénin travaille activement à l’élaboration de son plan national d’Éducation de  base pour tous (EPT) qui sera disponible avant la fin de l’année 2003. Par ailleurs, mon pays apporte son soutien au  programme relatif aux sciences exactes et naturelles qui vise, entre autres, l’amélioration de la qualité et de la gestion de  l’eau, ainsi que la protection de l’environnement et des écosystèmes. Nous félicitons le Secrétariat pour ses activités  dans les domaines de l’anticipation et de la veille prospective, traits distinctifs de notre Organisation au sein de la  famille des Nations Unies, surtout en ces temps de sommeil de la raison et de la sagesse.
24.6 Monsieur le Président, le Bénin demeure convaincu que c’est en favorisant la connaissance, l’appréciation et  le partage de leurs cultures, aussi riches que diverses, ainsi que leurs valeurs de civilisations, que les peuples contribuent  à bâtir, de manière durable, les défenses de la paix dans le cœur et l’esprit de l’humanité tout entière. Aussi sommes- nous en faveur de l’adoption, dès cette 32e session, d’une convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel. Nous sommes également pour la mise en chantier d’une convention sur la diversité culturelle, dans la  perspective de sa possible adoption à la 33e session. Je voudrais, en outre, appeler l’attention de cette auguste assemblée  sur l’importance que revêt pour le Bénin le projet « La route de l’esclave ». À cet égard, je tiens à apporter le soutien de  mon pays à toutes les dispositions pratiques que le Directeur général de l’UNESCO se propose de prendre dans la  perspective de la commémoration, tout au long de 2004, du bicentenaire de la naissance d’Haïti, État afro-américain né  de la seule révolte d’esclaves réussie dans l’histoire de l’humanité.
24.7 S’agissant du 32 C/5, le Bénin, après un examen approfondi du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-
2005, approuve dans sa globalité le document en optant pour le scénario de croissance réelle de 610 millions de dollars.  Dans le même temps, il déplore la faiblesse de la part allouée à l’Afrique dans les grands programmes, notamment en  éducation et en science, où elle est quasiment insignifiante. C’est pourquoi, mon pays lance un appel à la Conférence  générale afin que des moyens plus conséquents soient alloués à ce continent afin de lui permettre de relever les grands  défis qui l’attendent en ce début du troisième millénaire. C’est sur ces mots d’espoir que je souhaite plein succès à nos  travaux. Vive l’UNESCO. Vive la coopération internationale. Je vous remercie.
25.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Madame la Ministre des enseignements primaire et secondaire du Bénin. Je vous félicite pour votre  message de grande portée et pour votre labeur inlassable au service de votre pays.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
25.2 I would now like to invite the distinguished Minister of Education of Bangladesh, Dr Osman Farruk, to the  rostrum.
26.1 Mr FARRUK (Bangladesh):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Peace be with you. In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, it is indeed a  great honour and privilege for me to represent Bangladesh at the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO.  Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to extend to you the warmest greetings from the honourable Prime Minister of the
255  People’s Republic of Bangladesh, Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia. She has been unflinching in her commitment to  the lofty objectives which UNESCO and its Member States stand for.
26.2 I would like to congratulate the newly elected President of the General Conference. When I was working at  the World Bank, I had the opportunity to visit, and work in Nigeria for a number of years. I know the Nigerians, and I  know the people of Africa, and I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates, that we could not have chosen  a more dynamic and distinguished personality to lead UNESCO during these difficult and challenging times. I  congratulate the outgoing President, Mr Ahmad Jalali, for completing his term with distinction and of course for his  musical talents. We also thank the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Madam Aziza Bennani, and the Director- General, Mr Matsuura, for their leadership in reorganizing, revitalizing and streamlining the management and finances  of the Organization over the past biennium.
26.3 I am pleased to welcome, on behalf of my government, the new Member State of UNESCO, Timor-Leste, as  well as the returning member, the United States of America. I hope the question of Palestine’s full membership of  UNESCO, which has not been considered during this session, will be considered at an early date, in the spirit of  inclusiveness and fair play.
26.4 Distinguished delegates, Bangladesh stands out as a real-life example of what political commitment, together  with investment in human resources can do to realize UNESCO’s universal goals. Despite limited resources,  Bangladesh has consistently devoted some 15 to 20% of its government’s budget to education, more than half of which  has gone to primary and mass education. We have built effective partnerships with private-sector and NGO initiatives  for ensuring expanded access to all levels of education. To remove poverty as a barrier to access, primary education has  been made free and compulsory; textbooks are provided free at government expense, food or cash stipends are provided  at secondary levels. Most importantly, girls’ education has been made free up to the 12th grade, in addition to payment  of monthly stipends. Nearly six million girls receive such stipends at an annual cost of over US $100 million. This  action was envisioned by the Prime Minister, and is something she holds very dear.
26.5 The outcome of these decisive and proactive measures have been spectacular. We have achieved a 98%  enrolment rate at primary level. Our mass education programme has resulted in an adult literacy rate estimated at about
60 to 65%. Enrolment rates at secondary level have reached 65%, compared to 28% 10 years ago. Gender parity has  been achieved at the primary and secondary level, with girls comprising over 50% of enrolled students. We have  introduced vocational and business management streams and information and communication technologies (ICTs) at  secondary level in schools, including those with religious orientation. Enhancing the quality of education is now the  prime focus of a number of our policies. We expect enhanced UNESCO and donor support in all the above areas.
26.6 Mr President, our initiatives for poverty alleviation through human resource development, especially since  the restoration of the democratic government of Begum Khaleda Zia in the early 1990s, have been complemented by  various innovative income and employment generation programmes, such as the micro-credit scheme of the Grameen  Bank, and government and NGO initiatives. As a Member of UNESCO’s Executive Board we have made serious  efforts to disseminate our experience to other countries through UNESCO programmes. We are ready to continue with  these efforts in the future.
26.7 Mr President, we support the proposals for an expanded science and technology development programme.  Emphasis, however, should be on the development of technologies that would effectively support poverty-alleviation  efforts and develop in-country expertise. Measures to prevent the unethical use of biotechnology and gene and cloning  technologies have to be instituted. Freshwater supplies are dwindling and/or being contaminated by surface and sub- surface contaminants. We seek expanded UNESCO cooperation to address such problems affecting human life and  well-being, in Bangladesh and elsewhere.
26.8 We support the proposed initiatives for the protection and preservation of tangible and intangible cultural  heritage as well as for cultural diversity between and within nations. This is particularly important in the face of  globalization and potential unipolarization. We greatly appreciate UNESCO’s support and cooperation in the  preservation of two of our historical sites – one an eighth-century Buddhist Monastery and the other a sixteenth-century,
60-domed Mosque in Bangladesh. We hope that UNESCO will extend its support to cover other ancient sites and relics  and to assist us in the preservation and enhancement of our rich repertoire of folklore, folksongs and dances.  Bangladesh supports UNESCO’s efforts to promote dialogue among civilizations as the strongest weapon to combat  terrorism, violence and discrimination based on religion, race or colour.
26.9 We call for further decentralization, Mr President, rationalization and reduction of expenditure at  Headquarters and the strengthening of regional, cluster and country offices and National Commissions. Mr President,  we consider the Draft Programme and Budget to be an encouraging response to the challenges facing UNESCO.
256  However, we would like to suggest allocating increased budgetary resources to enhancing education quality, higher  education, E-9 activities and those of the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO). We  suggest that UNESCO support to a greater extent the inclusion of persons with physical and emotional challenges in  EFA, vocational training and lifelong education programmes, in Bangladesh and other developing countries. We  welcome the substantial increase in extrabudgetary resources. They should, however, be used more for programme- related activities, and not exclusively for post-conflict situations or for establishment costs. Mr President, distinguished  delegates, despite national and international efforts, nearly 900 million of the world’s population remain illiterate,
130 million children are still out of school and there are some 150 million drop-outs at primary level every year.  Progress on the Dakar Declaration and Millennium Development Goals remain disappointing for 78 countries and  alarming for some 28 countries. The resource requirements for putting them back on track runs into billions of dollars.  Yet bilateral flow of official development assistance for education has declined by about 16% over the decade of the
1990s. It would be a matter of great shame for the nations of the world if lack of resources slows or terminates our  journey towards achieving global peace, security, solidarity, harmony, human dignity and poverty alleviation. Given  that billions are spent by governments, both rich and poor, in wars and belligerent activities of various kinds, and not on  building the defences of peace in our minds, I would like to end my statement, Mr Director-General, by posing a  question to the nations of the world: should money really be a problem for achieving the mission which UNESCO and  humanity stand for? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your statement and for the enlightening information about  the situation in your country. It is now my pleasure to invite the honourable Minister of Education and Culture of  Uruguay to the rostrum.
(28.1) Mr GUZMÁN (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President, honourable ministers and delegates, we congratulate the President, Mr Omolewa, who has been  a friend of Uruguay since his teaching days in Nigeria. His action in this function will help to reform UNESCO, in  keeping with the Director-General’s commitment, which Uruguay supports, especially as regards the decentralization  process enabling, for instance, the Regional Office for Science and the MERCOSUR Office to operate in Montevideo.  We congratulate UNESCO because with the United States of America it retrieves a power with a long moral tradition,  and with Timor-Leste it confirms that its universal spirit is forged with the sentiments and beliefs of all peoples  regardless of differences in material power.
(28.2) It is said and repeated that, even though the world is no longer the same, the mission to build the defences of  peace in the minds of men is still the same as in 1946, when UNESCO proclaimed it in its admirable Constitution. It is  true, but it is not enough to read and repeat it. We must make this mission part of our lives in order to respond to  declining hope, to the shrouding of our normative conscience, and to the growing opacity of ideals that have surrendered  their power of inspiration as humanity suffers a dwindling of moral and legal standards, and both national and  international institutions have relinquished awareness of the imperative immediacy of their aims.
(28.3) With regard to our country, we could simply repeat here that we have more than 95% literacy and free official  university education, also mentioning such successes as the extension of preschool teaching in recent years, school  feeding and the use of computers in primary education, the constitutionally compulsory nature of secondary education,  and cash scholarships for thousands of university students, together with values such as the existence of teachers able to  train and guide the poor and the marginalized. We could give this Conference facts and figures that UNESCO has been  gathering in Uruguay since long before the United Nations established the Literacy Decade and the Dakar goals. But as
258  an adult country we know the cost of resting on the laurels of initially favourable comparisons. That is why, even though  we know that our effort has been great and honourable, we prefer to acknowledge in all modesty our present concern at  the poor performance in secondary education, a question affecting mathematics just as much as grammar, algebra and  syntax, with which we are collectively compromising the foundations of discourse. Many sectors are indifferent to basic  value issues, which prevents their members from setting clear goals in their lives based on reasoning. We are also  alarmed at the loss of confidence that education can unlock opportunities, which curtails and jeopardizes its natural lead  role. The different public and private stakeholders in education regularly discuss these problems, which do not affect  Uruguay alone. We are greatly encouraged to see that UNESCO is raising them, inter alia in discussions with ministers  and delegates from around the world such as the very fruitful debate now taking place.
(28.4) Uruguay undertakes to provide UNESCO with its best efforts to construct an education that will, first,  continue to be extended to all, without overcrowding; secondly, to promote a critical spirit and creative capacity without  killing the traditions that confer cultural identity and transmit age-old wisdom; and, thirdly, to heighten the spirit of  solidarity, while enhancing skills and virtues as a source of legitimate differences that benefit the progress of  communities and avoiding rigid ideals that overlook the individual. To that end, it will be necessary to halt the trend  towards having education merely serve technology and to respond openly to present conflicts of authority with new forms  of consolidation. Sometimes technology might suffice if specialized, but full development requires integral education and  culture. The present generations must meet the disorganizing challenges of economic and political life. Paradoxically,  they must lay their convictions upon values deriving from a worldwide spate of news items on corruption, a word that  unduly transmits a feeling of widespread and paralysing contagion. Paradoxically, too, they must base their faith on work  and competition at a time when markets are being closed by almost medieval protectionist measures.
(28.5) To help the new generations, what have to be useful instruments are the preliminary draft international  convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, which we think should be adopted without amendment,  and a draft convention on cultural diversity that defends identities while respecting the freedom and rights of individuals  and of peoples. It also has to be useful to adopt the draft recommendation on the promotion and use of multilingualism  and universal access to cyberspace and the draft charter on the preservation of digital heritage, which we endorse. But the  substantive answer will entail recovering the passion for creative freedom. Such recovery will call for re-establishing the  importance of humanism in harmony with technical requirements, building the natural bridge between practical tools,  theoretical mathematics and grammar, and local and world history where the heart and the logic of ideas are shaped. All  this is threatened by the sharp decline in the habit of abstracting, which is also apparent in the world’s most developed  countries.
(28.6) Education, science and culture will need jointly to reorganize the concept of what is human so that  differences, which are still enormous, in the treatment of each other may gradually diminish in order to build a world in  which principles guide norms and declarations, such as those on the human genome and genetic data or the international  instrument on bioethics and the integrated strategy to combat racism, discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,  which naturally we endorse. Furthermore, they need to guide each country’s and even each individual’s actual decisions.  Scientific research is also possible in countries with scarce resources and, with or without them, we must defend this  attitude if we do not want to go on having peoples that live below themselves.
(28.7) An attitude open to other customs is necessary for harmony in cultural diversity, given that humanity has  much to hope for from a greater dialogue between civilizations. But it is not acceptable to shield under cultural pluralism  attacks on life, physical integrity or freedom of conscience. The United Nations and UNESCO must defend human  minima because they were founded for that purpose and such is their main raison d’être. The Universal Declaration of  Human Rights must be enhanced by what has been studied, experienced and suffered in the half century of the United  Nations system. Even after experiencing difficult material circumstances, our country has kept intact its sensibility and  volition, commensurate with and serving humanity. Mr President and distinguished Ministers, it is our offer to work  together to recast the purposes of UNESCO on the basis of searching introspection in order that it may serve not only as  an organization concerned with measurable information and specific projects, but also as a source and reservoir of  knowledge and an instrument to shape the overarching wisdom that will be. Thank you very much for your attention.
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your statement and the wealth of information you have given us  on the major initiatives your country has taken in recent years. I now invite the honourable Minister of Culture of the  former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to take the floor.
30.1 M. STEFANOVSKI (ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine) (Discours prononcé en macédonien ; texte  français fourni par la délégation) :   Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, j’ai fait le pari de prononcer le discours le plus bref de la 32e session de la  Conférence de l’UNESCO. J’espère que j’y réussirai.
30.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, cette année restera marquée dans l’histoire de l’UNESCO comme l’année du retour  des États-Unis, retour que la République de Macédoine salue chaleureusement. Cela dit, cette année restera également  dans l’histoire de la République de Macédoine et dans la mémoire de ses citoyens, l’année de l’UNESCO. En effet,
259  l’année 2003 s’est déroulée sous le signe de notre Organisation. En mars dernier, j’ai eu l’honneur d’inaugurer avec le  Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, une exposition d’art contemporain macédonien, dans la salle Miró, à deux pas  de la salle où nous nous trouvons actuellement. Cette importante exposition qui, selon le célèbre journal Le Monde, «  apporte une nouvelle sensibilité dans l’art européen et mondial », était intitulée « Dialogues : l’art macédonien  aujourd’hui ».
30.3 Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est précisément cette notion de dialogue qui a été à l’origine d’une des plus  importantes conférences que l’UNESCO ait organisé, en collaboration avec la République de Macédoine, dans la région  de l’Europe du Sud-Est. Je veux parler du Forum régional sur le « Dialogue entre les civilisations » qui s’est tenu, en  août  dernier, dans la ville d’Ohrid, site du patrimoine mondial, au sud de la République de Macédoine. Cette réunion,  qui s’est déroulée sous l’égide du Président macédonien Boris Trajkovski et du Directeur général de l’UNESCO,  Koïchiro Matsuura, a prouvé que, après plus d’une décennie d’événements tragiques dans le Sud-Est européen, l’esprit  et les principes qui animent l’UNESCO revivent enfin dans cette partie du monde. « Le Message d’Ohrid » a été adopté  à l’unanimité par les huit chefs d’État de l’Europe du Sud-Est, ainsi que par les 22 représentants personnels de chefs  d’États du monde entier et une centaine d’intellectuels et experts qui participaient au Forum. C’est là un signe évident  d’un retour en force de l’esprit de dialogue, de tolérance et de respect mutuel entre les civilisations, les cultures et les  religions de peuples qui ont toujours vécu ensemble sur ce territoire.
30.4 Cette année a bel et bien été l’année de l’UNESCO dans mon pays. La preuve en est que l’Organisation s’est  associée à une manifestation culturelle très prestigieuse : les Soirées poétiques de Struga. Depuis plus de 40 ans, la ville  de Struga, devenue capitale mondiale de la poésie, réunit des poètes du monde entier, qui viennent construire au bord du  lac d’Ohrid un « Anti-Babel » international. La fusion de ce Festival et de l’UNESCO constitue à mes yeux une réelle  contribution au dialogue. Voici pourquoi : lors de la dernière édition du Festival, en août dernier, M. Koïchiro Matsuura  et moi-même avons signé un communiqué conjoint qui jette les bases d’une collaboration constante entre l’UNESCO et  les Soirées poétiques de Struga. J’ai le plaisir de vous annoncer qu’à cette occasion, un nouveau prix international de  poésie a été créé. Il s’adresse aux poètes de moins de 35 ans, ressortissants de tous les États membres de l’UNESCO.  Chaque année, le 21 mars - Journée mondiale de la poésie - le jeune lauréat sera proclamé ici, dans la Maison de  l’UNESCO, en même temps que le lauréat de la Couronne d’Or des Soirées poétiques de Struga. Mon invité personnel,  l’année prochaine, sera notre grand ami le poète Ahmad Jalali, ancien Président de la Conférence générale. Je lui  réserve cette surprise. Ne le lui dites pas si vous le voyez.
30.5 Mesdames, Messieurs, la République de Macédoine soutient pleinement les activités que mène l’UNESCO  en vue de l’adoption de textes normatifs dans le domaine de la diversité culturelle et du patrimoine culturel immatériel.  D’autre part, elle a proposé un projet de résolution, le projet 32 C/DR.40, qui concerne la numérisation et la restauration  du patrimoine culturel dans les pays de l’Europe du Sud-Est, notamment ceux des Balkans, qui traversent une période  de postconflit.
30.6 Je souhaiterais, avant de terminer, partager avec vous une pensée de Pablo Neruda, l’un des lauréats de la  Couronne d’Or de Struga :  pour ce grand et immortel poète, le patrimoine de l’humanité ne sont pas ses plaies, mais ses  espoirs. Sachez, Mesdames, Messieurs, que pour mon pays, la Macédoine, l’UNESCO est la maison de l’espoir. Je vous  remercie.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister. I note that you also serve as President of your National  Commission for UNESCO. I congratulate you for your brevity, which might encourage the Executive Board to reduce  the speaking time to less than eight minutes for the future! Thank you for your brilliant example. I now invite His  Eminence Monsignor Francesco Follo, Permanent Observer of the Holy See to UNESCO, to take the floor.
32.1 Mgr FOLLO (Saint-Siège) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, permettez-moi  tout d’abord de vous transmettre les cordiales salutations de Sa Sainteté le pape Jean-Paul II, qui suit avec une grande  attention les événements du monde et les travaux de la communauté internationale. Pour apporter la contribution du  Saint-Siège à la présente session de la Conférence générale, permettez-moi d’évoquer trois points qui me semblent  essentiels, et sur lesquels les différents partenaires de la société civile sont appelés à travailler, dans une collaboration  toujours plus étroite.
32.2 Tout d’abord, le respect dû à tout être humain. C’est l’élément central de la construction d’une société, quelle  qu’elle soit. Le Saint-Siège souhaite rappeler la nécessité de placer au centre de toute réflexion l’homme, l’inaliénable  dignité de son être biologique et spirituel, le caractère sacré de sa vie, et la valeur du lien conjugal et familial. Il est clair  que s’il est fait abstraction de la valeur première de l’homme, les décisions prises ne pourront qu’aller contre l’homme  et contre l’humanité. Ne pas tenir compte du lien conjugal, qui est au principe même de la cellule de base de la société,
260  conduit inévitablement à rendre caducs les différents liens sociaux. Ne pas reconnaître le caractère sacré de la vie  entraîne inexorablement à faire de l’homme et de son patrimoine génétique un simple matériau d’expérimentation, qui  peut être exploité par telle ou telle idéologie à des fins destructrices. Il faut en particulier proclamer que les thérapies  géniques qui utilisent les cellules-souches embryonnaires détruisent des êtres humains fragiles et font courir des risques  graves à l’humanité. Le dicton bien connu « La fin ne justifie pas les moyens » nous rappelle que toute démarche  éthique doit reposer sur une réflexion associant ses finalités et les moyens pour y parvenir. Dans le même temps, il  importe d’aider les scientifiques et les chercheurs à trouver des voies dignes de l’homme.
32.3 Deuxième point, l’éducation est un autre aspect important pour l’avenir de la société, auquel il convient de  porter une grande attention. Mais il importe de situer la formation culturelle et professionnelle dans le cadre plus large  d’une éducation intégrale de la personne, pour le plein épanouissement de tout l’être et de tout être, dans sa vie  personnelle et dans son rôle de citoyen dans la cité. Dans cette perspective, toute société doit être attentive à la  dimension spirituelle et morale, en revalorisant l’élément transcendantal. La référence religieuse dans la formation  culturelle, et plus encore l’ouverture à la transcendance et la liberté laissée à la vie et à la pratique religieuses, sont des  aspects qui permettent à chaque être, et notamment aux jeunes, de fonder leur existence sur des valeurs autres que  purement matérialistes. Il nous faut affirmer que la vie spirituelle est fondamentale pour tout être humain. Dans ce  domaine, le droit de la famille et son statut propre doivent être respectés, car les parents, premiers éducateurs de leurs  enfants, sont appelés à leur transmettre leur patrimoine culturel et spirituel, et à ouvrir les jeunes à la dimension  transcendantale de l’existence. Vous comprendrez donc que la question religieuse au sens large ne peut être simplement  reléguée dans la sphère privée, car elle engage l’avenir de l’homme et de la société avec ses valeurs et ses  comportements éthiques.
32.4 Enfin, dans la vie internationale, nous sommes tous attentifs à la question de la paix, sans laquelle il n’est pas  possible d’instaurer un ordre mondial respectueux de l’humanité. Il incombe à la communauté internationale de  s’engager toujours plus avant dans la construction de la paix. Elle doit aussi faire tout ce qui est en son pouvoir pour que  tout peuple puisse avoir une terre et décider de manière autonome de son existence et de la conduite de ses affaires  intérieures, et pour que les habitants d’une nation soient les premiers bénéficiaires des richesses que compte le pays. On  ne pourra établir la paix civile et sociale sur un territoire tant que trop d’intérêts étrangers empêcheront ses habitants de  prendre part au développement local et profiteront indûment du bien d’autrui. Pour remettre la terre à ceux qui y vivent,  il appartient à la communauté internationale, aux responsables des nations et aux organisations internationales, dans le  respect des règles internationales de s’engager toujours plus dans la formation complète des autochtones, afin que ceux- ci soient à même de prendre en mains les destinées de leur pays. C’est là une éthique de la solidarité à laquelle nul ne  peut plus se soustraire.
32.5 Au terme de mon intervention, je voudrais dire ma joie et la joie du Saint-Siège de voir le Timor-Leste  rejoindre l’UNESCO et les États-Unis d’Amérique y retrouver leur place comme délégation à part entière. Ce retour  sera grandement bénéfique pour nos travaux et pour les États-Unis eux-mêmes. Je vous remercie de votre aimable  attention.
33. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je remercie Mgr Follo, observateur permanent du Saint-Siège auprès de l’UNESCO. Je donne maintenant la  parole à l’Ambassadrice, déléguée permanente de la République dominicaine auprès de l’UNESCO, S. E. Mme Lil  Despradel.
(34.1) Ms DESPRADEL (Dominican Republic) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director- General of UNESCO, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, first and foremost, I wish to congratulate you Mr President  on the sober, competent and firm manner in which you are carrying out your new function. Mr President, my country is  very pleased with the measures taken by the Director-General with respect to decentralization and staff policy. This  course of action should be continued. We consider it better to have fewer offices in the field so as to increase the  resources of those that may serve a larger number of countries in UNESCO’s areas of competence. Accordingly, a  coordinated dialogue should be fostered between the National Commissions, the Permanent Delegations and the  Secretariat of the Organization. The Dominican Republic considers that the relations between UNESCO’s two governing  organs, the General Conference and the Executive Board, with the Director-General and his Secretariat have improved  markedly over the past biennium. Nevertheless, we must continue reflection regarding the relationship between the three  organs and their operating costs. For example, in the view of my delegation it is essential that the mechanisms whereby  the General Conference exercises its sovereignty be improved for the sake of a more democratic process in UNESCO.
(34.2) Mr President, my country supports the adoption at this General Conference session of the budget suggested to  us by the Executive Board, which for the first time in several biennia shows an albeit moderate increase in the resources  for programme execution. We note that in the new C/5 document education comes in for the lion’s share of funding.  However, we need much more in order to fulfil our fundamental role of educating peoples to live in peace. My delegation  requests the world’s rich countries to increase extrabudgetary donations to education in all its aspects. With regard to the  social sciences, the Dominican Republic considers that, by dint of common effort, the reflection process on social  transformations and governance problems should result in hard and fast proposals consonant with the history of peoples  and adapted to each case.
(34.3) Mr President, UNESCO’s standard-setting role is very important. My country applauds the consensual,  balanced – attentive to all sensibilities – and exemplary manner in which the preliminary draft international convention  on the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage was drawn up, which we hope will be adopted by this august  assembly. In this respect, we wish to appeal to Member States to ratify rapidly, to the extent possible, the conventions  that we adopted at previous General Conference sessions. The dialogue between civilizations and cultures lies at the heart  of this institution. My country joins with many others in asking this honourable assembly to mandate the Director- General to prepare, with the help of our experts, a draft convention on cultural diversity, the urgency of which in today’s  globalizing world is obvious.
(34.4) Mr President, the Dominican Republic welcomes the return of the United States of America to this House  which it helped to found and the arrival of Timor-Leste. Mr President, institutions are built with the sum of much tenacity.  Let us unite ours with that of Mr Koïchiro Matsuura in order to strengthen our role as the intellectual and moral  conscience of humanity. Thank you very much.
35. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Dominican Republic. You  equalled the record of His Excellency from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the prize I hoped to give  to him has now been challenged by this latest presentation, I am sad to say. Maybe I will think about giving two prizes,  after due consultation with my colleagues. We now have the last speaker for this morning. I would like invite the
262  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to UNESCO, His Excellency  Mr Kim Hyang San, to take the floor.
36.1 Mr KIM (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea) (Speech delivered in Korean; English translation supplied  by the delegation):  Mr President, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, at the outset,  on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Michael  Abiola Omolewa, on your election as President of the General Conference of UNESCO. My appreciation also goes to  you, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General, for your efforts to strengthen the functions and role of UNESCO as  required by the current situation.
36.2 Mr President, the desire of humankind for a peaceful and prosperous world is still facing challenges even in  the new century. The policies of domination based on unilateralism and the supremacy of power are pursued openly and  further materialized in the forms of an armed invasion and the threat of pre-emptive nuclear attack against sovereign  States. The disparities between countries in the areas of education, science, information and communication have  further widened and cultural diversity is in danger of collapsing. Moreover, the dangers of intercultural and inter- civilization confrontation and, even more serious, of confrontation between nations and States are increasing.
36.3 Mr President, we believe that, during the past biennium, UNESCO has further revitalized its activities, which  are focused mainly on identifying ways and means of contributing to world peace and security and overcoming the  negative impact of globalization, as can be seen in the first Medium-Term Strategy of the new century. The  Organization has given priority to Education for All (EFA), the ethics of science and technology, the protection of the  world heritage and the strengthening of national capacities, and has concentrated much of its effort, with some success,  on creating an atmosphere of mutual understanding, tolerance and peace.
36.4 In the first place, a large number of national EFA action plans have been drawn up and have created  favourable conditions for a drastic reduction of 50% by 2015 in the number of illiterates – now more than 800 million –  in the world. Secondly, following new scientific discoveries, such as those relating to the human genome, active efforts  have been made to prevent their potentially negative effects on human beings, leading to the drafting of an international  declaration aimed at ensuring respect for human rights and ethics in the application of genetic engineering.
36.5 In addition, the adoption of the international convention on the safeguarding of the intangible cultural  heritage is expected during this Conference. It follows the adoption of the Convention on the Protection of the  Underwater Cultural Heritage by the General Conference at its 31st session. My delegation regards this as another  significant achievement by UNESCO in the protection of cultural diversity. In this connection, I would like to express  our appreciation of the Children’s Performing Arts Festival in East Asia, which has been held twice under the theme of  “culture of peace” at the initiative of the Director-General. These festivals have contributed greatly to the promotion of  mutual understanding and cooperation among the countries in the region.
36.6 Mr President, in recent years the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has concentrated much effort on  improving the quality of education and decisively enhancing the level of advanced technology in keeping with the  government’s emphasis on education and science and the needs of the information industry in the new century, while at  the same time encouraging the protection of the national cultural heritage and folklore traditions.
36.7 During the past biennium, cooperation between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and UNESCO  has been further strengthened in many fields, such as the improvement of the quality of primary and secondary  education, the training of talented scientists and technicians, and the protection of the heritage. Active efforts have been  made to nominate Koguryo tombs for inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List. The inscription of these tombs,  which are a valuable heritage of our nation and have universal value, will be on the agenda of the 2004 session of the  World Heritage Committee.
36.8 The National Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has paid close attention to the  strengthening of cooperation with UNESCO Offices in Beijing, Bangkok and Jakarta in keeping with the  decentralization policy of the Organization. In this process, it has successfully implemented projects on, inter alia, the  improvement of teachers’ qualifications, the protection of the heritage and the training of scientific and technical  experts.
36.9 While we greatly appreciate the work done by the Organization during the last two years, my delegation  wishes to make some comments on the Organization’s proposed activities for the coming biennium. In the view of my  delegation, it is justifiable for UNESCO to have formulated the draft of document 32 C/5 in such a way as to focus all  culture-oriented activities on the protection of cultural diversity and to underline the importance of building learning
263  societies, protecting water and related ecosystems and fostering equitable access to the information society. We  welcome the real growth scenario envisaged in the budget for 2004-2005, which will serve as a basis to revitalize the  Organization’s activities in a realistic way.
36.10 However, it is imperative that, in the course of finalizing the Programme and Budget for the next biennium,  more realistic and detailed ways and means should be identified of ensuring impartiality and balance in the overall work  of the Organization relating to such things as assistance to its Member States. Special attention should be paid to  strengthening the capacities of developing countries. We hope and expect that UNESCO will continue to discharge its  responsibilities and role as an intellectual organization working for the common cause of peace, development and  equality during the next biennium.
36.11 Mr. President, tension still persists on the Korean peninsula, and the solution of the nuclear disagreement  between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States of America, on which the world’s attention  is currently focused, is of prime importance for realizing peace and stability in the Korean peninsula as well as in other  regions of the world. My government remains consistent in its desire to resolve the nuclear issue peacefully through  dialogue and negotiation.
36.12 On the Korean peninsula, peace has been maintained thanks to the powerful deterrent embodied by our  independent SONGUN policy of attaching great importance to the Army. The Government of the Democratic People’s  Republic of Korea remains steadfast in its policy and its determination to achieve peace and the reunification of Korea  and so contribute to peace and security in the region and throughout the world. For the first time since Korea was  divided, the Inter-Korean Summit Meeting was held in Pyongyang, and a North-South Joint Declaration was made  public thanks to the ideas of national independence and great national unity put forward by the respected and beloved  General Kim Jong Il. These have marked a turning point in the progress towards reunification through concerted efforts  of the Korean nation. The Government and people of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will achieve national  reconciliation, unity and reunification and contribute to the peace and security of the region and the world.
36.13 Mr President, the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue to contribute  actively to international efforts to promote world peace by intensifying cooperation with UNESCO and all Member  States in accordance with the government’s foreign policy of independence, peace and friendship. Thank you for your  attention.
37.1 The PRESIDENT  Thank you very much, Your Excellency the Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Democratic  People’s Republic of Korea to UNESCO.
37.2 Honourable Ministers, heads of delegation, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we have now  come to the end of the ninth plenary meeting, and I wish to thank you again for your continued cooperation, which has  made it possible for us to keep to our schedule. With respect to the ongoing dispute over the award of the prize to either  the honourable Minister of Culture of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or the Ambassador and Permanent  Delegate of the Dominican Republic, I would like to suggest that perhaps in future we should consider seconds as well  as minutes in order to determine who exactly is the winner. For the time being, we shall continue to deliberate on who is  the winner.
37.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall meet again this afternoon at 3 o’clock sharp, and I shall continue to  appreciate your punctuality. The meeting now stands adjourned.   La séance est levée à 12 h 45   The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.45   Заседание закрывается в 12.45  א א١٢,٤٥א    会议于 12 时 45 分结束