3  Première séance plénière
29 septembre 2003 à 10 h 00  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  First plenary meeting
29 September 2003 at 10 a.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  Primera sesión plenaria
1.1 Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran), Temporary President:  א א  א In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, since the last session of our distinguished assembly, a number of public personalities  and ordinary people have left this world. Among them, allow me to mention one of our eminent colleagues, President of  the General Conference at its 23rd session in Sofia in 1985 and our dear friend, Mr Nikolaï Todorov, who contributed  tremendously to the realization of UNESCO’s ideals and objectives. Furthermore, I would like to invite you to pay  tribute to all the innocent victims of terror and violence in the world. I would also propose that we pay a special tribute  to the United Nations personnel who, pursuing their noble goals of peace, under the leadership of Mr Sergio Vieira de  Mello, were recently victims of blind terrorism. These murderous attacks attempted to injure the very soul of the United  Nations system, its spirit and its valiant mission to achieve universal peace and tolerance.
1.3 I would like to invite everyone to stand and observe one minute’s silence in their memory.  (The General Conference observes one minute of silence)  (The President continues in French)
1.4 Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Ministres, Excellences, chers  collègues, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de la dignité et de la solidarité humaines, animé du plus haut respect pour  vous et pour cette Maison, j’ai le plaisir de m’adresser à la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, réunie en sa 32e session.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
1.5 Out of respect for the host country, I would have liked to be able to continue in French, but not this time. If  next time you elect me as President of the General Conference, I promise I will. I am supposed to be brief, therefore I  will not read all of my speech. You will receive the complete version of it in print. At the outset I would like to  sincerely thank you, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, the Deputy Director-General, the Assistant Directors-General and all members of the Secretariat for your  cooperation during these last two years. I would also like to thank the interpreters, security personnel, technicians and  all those involved in the running of every corner of this House. I would especially like to extend sincere thanks to the  Secretary of the General Conference, Mr Kol, my secretary, Laila Wallart, and all of my dear staff, without whom I  could not have fulfilled this heavy responsibility. My thanks also go to Mr Al Shaabi, Secretary of the Executive Board,  for his kind cooperation.
1.6 I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely congratulate the United States of America and Timor-Leste  on their joining this House.
1.7 During the 31st session of the General Conference, held after the tragic events of 11 September, we approved  important documents, including the preliminary draft convention for the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage, the  UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, and 31C/Resolution 39 against terrorism, which is also a  manifestation of the intellectual and ethical character of our Organization and provides us with a comprehensive basis  for mounting a multifaceted fight against terrorism and its roots, while stressing that acts of terrorism can never be  justified, whatever the motives.
1.8 We should not only take education itself as the first priority in this respect, but also the quality of its content,  as we have seen for example, that the most dangerous terrorists are highly educated. Many problems around us have  emerged from miseducation. Terrorism and many other crimes begin in people’s minds. Remember: “the seas and  oceans all come from the source of a very small stream.”  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ١,٩ א א א א ، .א א אא א א ، ، א א ، א א ، א א א .א "א، א: א ، א א ، א  ".א
(1.9) (Translation from the Arabic): Ladies and gentlemen, let me now give an example of that approach to  teaching an understanding of religion through the various phases of history. When I was a schoolboy in my small home  town in Iran, where there is a village called Kharaqân, our teacher took us one day to the mausoleum of Abu l-Hasan al- Kharaqâni, a great Islamic religious scholar and cultural figure, to give us an understanding of faith. Above the entrance  was a sentence of his written a thousand years ago: “Give whoever comes into this house food, and do not enquire about  his faith or religion, because whoever owes his existence to God surely deserves food from me”.  (The President continues in English)
1.10 But unfortunately not all teachers in this world share that vision. We are diversified in terms of culture,  religion and language; but, as Rumi says:  “… inside us  There is another unity.    Behind each eye here,  One glowing water.    Every forest branch moves differently  In the breeze, but as they sway,  They connect at the roots.”
1.11 Dear colleagues, the United States of America is returning to our Organization. UNESCO welcomes this  return, as this will make the Organization more universal and more internationally effective. The very philosophy of the  United Nations implies that when one wishes for any development for the betterment of human society, it is more  meaningful to be present within the circle in a cooperative spirit. At least, my personal experience has taught me so. The  political and budgetary weight and importance of this return is clear, but another important aspect is UNESCO’s  potential connection to a remarkably capable and active civil society, which can enrich this House in the pursuit of its  mission.
1.12 Having mentioned this, I think that these days the potential of civil society in all Member States – especially  in developed countries – is under-utilized in UNESCO. It is a reliable channel, which can reflect the wishes and  expectations of the majority of people, and this is an integral part of our raison d’être.
1.13 Dear friends, as I have always been very impressed by the nobility of the text of our Constitution, let me pay  tribute here to the founders of UNESCO who so brilliantly codified such a unique approach for an intergovernmental  organization. Just as its codification was not easy, so it is not easy to perform a complex mission combining political  actions with a knowledge-based approach in the service of ethical ideals. I hope that soon the letter “E” in UNESCO  may not only stand for education but ethics as well.
1.14 What a beautiful but complex task! An intergovernmental body is given the duty of reaching out to people’s  minds to construct the defences of peace therein, while believing that the foundation of peace is the intellectual and  moral solidarity of mankind if it is not to fail.
1.15 Although our official policy-making Members are governments, if our mission is to create human solidarity,  and if, according to our Constitution “… the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable  to the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty …” then, for this mission, prophets, many thinkers, philosophers,
6  scientists and artists are in fact potential UNESCO members. This is indeed the uniqueness and richness of our  Organization. Therefore, Nelson Mandela, while not being able to forget, can forgive; Karl Popper teaches us that we,  as human beings, should not kill and tear each other apart, but instead should let our theories fight each other, and that  the power of science resides in its openness to criticism; Rumi teaches us the pluralistic concept of identity by saying:  “… I am not from any cultural system/Not from the East/Nor the West/My place is placeless, a trace of the  traceless./Neither body or soul,/First, last, outer, inner, only that/Breath breathing human being.” Gadamer teaches us  that without accepting the priority of the question over the answer, we can neither conduct a genuine dialogue, nor  develop a new understanding, nor gain new knowledge as “Knowledge always means, precisely, considering  opposites;” Mahatma Gandhi wrote to UNESCO: “I learnt from my illiterate but wise mother that all rights to be  deserved and preserved came from duty well done”. They, together with Confucius, Thomas Paine, Chekhov,  Muhyeddin ibn al-Arabi, Victor Hugo, Pablo Neruda – who was once a member of our Executive Board – and many  others like them, are therefore all UNESCO members through the nature of their ideas. And this is also the case with  many active members in the world’s civil society today.
1.16 Excellencies and dear friends, vision is how we measure the world. The spirit of our Constitution and the  global experiences of our time are clearly indicating to us that the dominancy of any single vision over the international  paradigm is a great risk for UNESCO and the world. The nature of our constitutional mission requires a genuine  dialogue among visions, among world views, which depends upon thought rather than argument. This will let us wash  our eyes and let ourselves see! Imagine if the world were populated with light forms, and we had our eyes shut. What  would you then miss?
1.17 New ideas are waves on the sea of openness. This visionary dialogue can be saved from suppression by the  dominant opinion through the harmony between intergovernmentality, intellectuality and morality, which should  culminate in operationality in UNESCO. Dialogue among cultures and civilizations is one component of this. Now that  we are becoming even more universal, let us create an even stronger will to realize this goal. UNESCO’s ideals tell us  that dialogue among visions cannot merely be equated with dialogue among powers.
1.18 After long consultations with almost all of you, I formed a regular informal brainstorming forum for real  dialogue among all permanent delegates, free of formalities but not free of serious goals. You supported its continuation  for a better mutual understanding among us and a place through which we can see possible areas of consensus among  geographical groups.
1.19 Dear friends, let us not forget why UNESCO was created. It was not because of an appetite for luxury and  debates for the entertainment of intellectuals. It was born out of pain, blood and heavy global trauma. As the shock of  the Second World War taught the founders of UNESCO, so subsequent shocks have also taught us that a peace based  exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be a peace which could secure the  unanimous, lasting and sincere support of peoples.
1.20 Dear colleagues, you trusted me and elected me as President of the General Conference. I did my best to be  honest and to consult all of you as much as possible, not only because it was part of the official duty you entrusted me  with, but because I really believe in my heart in the cause of UNESCO. I have defended UNESCO’s cause and ideals to  the fullest extent of my capacity and I will continue to do so. Please forgive me for any shortcomings due to my human  weaknesses and accept my sincere appreciation for your friendly cooperation.
1.21 My time is ending, but I should not forget to thank the Director-General, who has sincerely tried to make  UNESCO present and active in Afghanistan, Iraq and Palestine. I am sure that with your support he will do his best to  continue this human task.
1.22 Mr Director-General, I remember you quoted a poem by Sadi of Shiraz four years ago in your inaugural  speech. I would like to bring my speech to an end with the same poem. “All humans are limbs of each other; he who  touches one of its limbs, touches me – and if he wounds it, he wounds me. Then, if I have not sympathy for the wounds  of others, I am unworthy to be called human.” Thank you.  (The President gives a rendering of a Persian song)
(2.1) Ms BENNANI (Morocco), Chairperson of the Executive Board (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am  pleased to address you at the opening of this 32nd session of the General Conference, the end of which will coincide with  the end of the biennium during which I had the task of chairing the Executive Board. This period was replete with intense  activity and work, and full of great promises and hopes. We achieved what we did in the course of the biennium thanks to  the fruitful cooperation of all the Board Members, the Director-General and all the staff of the Secretariat. I cannot forget  our close cooperation with the President of the General Conference, Ambassador Ahmad Jalali, whose term of office  expires today, and who gave the Board the benefit of his fine words and profound thoughts.
(2.2) The current session of the General Conference comes at a time of increased awareness, on the international  stage, of the importance of multilateral work – of the importance of the United Nations system in general, and of the role  of our Organization in particular. With the return of the United States of America to full membership in the Organization,  UNESCO is recovering both its standing and its universal dimension. This universality is the very raison d’être of  UNESCO because the Organization is unique among all its sister agencies of the United Nations system in being a  laboratory of ideas. This laboratory can only perform its function properly by seeking out all intellectual forces, wherever  they may be, and engaging with them on the basis of real give and take.
(2.3) Here I am bound to mention one of the founding fathers of our Organization, the American poet Archibald  McLeish, and his role in laying the foundations of the dream by building our Organization. He was the author of the  ringing cry first uttered during the preparatory meetings for the foundation of UNESCO, the cry that was to show the path  the Organization has charted for itself ever since its foundation, since it took its place at the beginning of the  Organization’s Constitution: “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace  must be constructed.” The renewed encounter between the American intellectual community and UNESCO will impart to  the Organization fresh lustre similar to that imparted to it upon its foundation – the lustre that carries with it the hope of  peace, justice and love among peoples, and the hope of using all available means in the fields of education, science,  culture and communication to promote people’s welfare wherever they are. Human welfare and respect for human dignity  are at the core of all religions and creeds, and of all beautiful ideas. Those two objectives must be the ideal for which our  Organization strives. UNESCO was founded following the Second World War, with the toll of death and destruction that  it imposed on all humankind, in order to appeal to the human intellect to cooperate to renounce malice, violence and  hatred in all their forms, and to work to build a new world on the ashes of the old, wounded, bleeding world that was  exhausted by the trials of war, a new world based on justice, freedom and awareness, a world which would renounce all  forms of rancour, racism, discrimination and violence, a world in which all the peoples of the world would find their  place, and in which all people would be free and equal.
(2.4) The current session of the General Conference will serve to update UNESCO’s constantly renewed role at a  time when the world is witnessing grave events, for humankind today stands face to face with problems which threaten  its very existence. The tremendous scientific and technological progress under way in the world today has made us  realize just how frail our planet is, and more generally how fragile its equilibrium is; it has also made us realize the need  to ensure that human beings are the purpose and goal of this progress. Yes, we need progress in ethics and humanitarian  theory to keep pace with this rapid scientific progress, and to be capable of containing it and guiding it. The world  therefore needs UNESCO more today than at any time in the past; it needs its ethical and intellectual role to set the  necessary standards and to support cultural diversity and make it flourish, and to help all humankind to follow the march  of knowledge. The modernization of our Organization’s role is none other than its renewal as the conscience of all  humankind, for this is the organization that endeavours to think constantly about the future of our planet and the future of  humankind in order to support world equilibrium, combat poverty, eradicate illiteracy, and build a world in which justice,  solidarity, coexistence and tolerance reign supreme. The participation in this session of this large number of heads of  State and government, ministers, scientific and intellectual figures is surely proof of their confidence in our Organization  and of the hopes that are pinned on it.
(2.5) The edifice of conscience cannot be built in one go, once and for all, because it is a structure which rests on  life and experience. As long as there is life there is development based on trial and error – this is the law of existence.  Clearly, this edifice needs much discussion, reflection and sincere and diverse work. We are in the process of entering the
9  global village that is our world but we can only enter by means of our beautiful diversity, our numerous experiences, and  the ability of each and every one of us to give of our best in order to enhance this wonderful structure. Ladies and  gentlemen, these are the challenges of the future, and I very much hope that our General Conference will be equal to  them. Peace be upon you. Thank you for your attention.
3. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board. May I now invite the Director-General  to take the floor for his address. Mr Director-General.  ALLOCUTION DU DIRECTEUR GÉNÉRAL  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  DISCURSO DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL  ВСТУПИТЕЛЬНОЕ СЛОВО ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОГО ДИРЕКТОРА  א  א 总干事讲话
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:    Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Honourable Ministers,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is with feelings divided between grave concern and renewed confidence that I  address you today, just over two years after the 11 September terrorist attacks, which plunged us into a state of shock  and dismay, undermining our confidence in a global system of collective security.
4.2 These two years, marked as they have been by so many conflicts, have plunged the United Nations into the  most serious crisis it has had to face in its history, forcing it to question, more than ever before, the capacity of its  institutions to reflect the world’s new realities.
4.3 This perception of a United Nations system in disarray is one that is widely shared. I nevertheless believe that  we must not allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by feelings of pessimism or discouragement. To do so would be, in  some measure, to dishonour the memory of our colleagues who died so tragically in Baghdad while serving, with  devotion and commitment, the universal values of peace and reconciliation for which we stand. UNESCO will remain  faithful to the message of hope that inspired those men and women of peace, particularly their outstanding leader,  Mr Sergio Vieira de Mello.
4.4 As I pointed out earlier, we must not give way to either discouragement or pessimism. While it is a time for  taking stock of our progress and questioning our weaknesses, I believe that we can take pride in what we have worked  for and accomplished together over the last two years.
4.5 Indeed, our Organization has undergone profound changes. Its methods of work have been overhauled; it has  refocused on its core mandate and, while rationalizing its decentralization processes, it has started to build a culture of  accountability. Today, despite the serious troubles affecting the United Nations system, I believe that one can say that  UNESCO is a responsible organization that has regained confidence – confidence in itself but also the confidence of  Member States.  (The Director-General continues in French)
4.6 Depuis deux ans, et malgré les tensions évoquées, nous avons su faire de l’UNESCO une enceinte reconnue  de dialogue et d’action. Notre médiation active dans les situations de postconflit, comme en Afghanistan ou en Iraq, est  unanimement saluée. Notre capacité de formuler des principes et normes universellement acceptables sur des sujets  complexes est toujours plus reconnue et acceptée. Nous savons mieux qu’hier nouer des partenariats, travailler avec la  société civile, mettre en commun des savoirs et partager des compétences. Notre légitimité au sein des Nations Unies  s’en est trouvée renforcée. Sur des sujets aussi essentiels que l’eau, l’éducation pour tous, la prévention du sida, la  sauvegarde des patrimoines ou la réflexion bioéthique, nous apportons des réponses différentes, adaptées, concrètes.  Bien sûr, face aux fléaux persistants que sont le racisme, la violence ou l’extrême pauvreté, notre humanité a besoin de  s’unir et de se mobiliser davantage. L’UNESCO, dans la mesure de ses capacités, doit également faire plus et mieux  pour venir en aide aux pays les plus démunis, notamment sur le continent africain.
4.7 Ce sentiment retrouvé d’utilité et d’efficacité, sans lequel tout le sens de notre action paraîtrait vain, je veux  en lire la preuve dans la participation de nombreux chefs d’États et ministres à nos débats. La venue des Présidents de la  République italienne et de la République des Philippines aujourd’hui, du Kirghizistan, de la France, et du Pérou dans les  jours à venir, nous honore tout particulièrement. Pour ma part, j’y vois un message d’encouragement, car je sais
10  combien le succès de notre action repose d’abord et avant tout sur le soutien de chacun des États membres et  l’engagement personnel de leurs plus hauts responsables.
4.8 Permettez-moi enfin, avant de déclarer ouverte cette 32e session de la Conférence générale, de dire combien  je suis heureux, satisfait et ému d’accueillir parmi nous deux membres. Avec l’arrivée du Timor-Leste et le retour des  États-Unis d’Amérique au sein de notre Organisation, j’ai le sentiment que nous accomplissons un pas décisif vers  l’universalité. Il ne faut pas négliger la force des symboles, et celui-ci en est assurément un. Nous tournons la page des  guerres d’indépendance et de la guerre froide, tout en ouvrant un nouveau chapitre de notre histoire qui verra, j’en suis  certain, les nations rassemblées pour faire face, collectivement, aux nouveaux défis du XXIe siècle.
4.9 À toutes et tous, et avant d’exprimer ma profonde gratitude à M. Ahmad Jalali, président de la Conférence  générale, ainsi qu’à Mme Aziza Bennani, présidente du Conseil exécutif, pour le dévouement, l’énergie et la lucidité  avec lesquels ils se sont acquittés de leur tâche pendant leur mandat, je veux dire une nouvelle fois que nous pouvons  être à nouveau confiants, comme je le suis à chaque fois qu’il m’est donné de parcourir vos pays, et que me revient en  écho un soutien de plus en plus affirmé en faveur de notre Organisation. Je vous remercie.
5. The PRESIDENT:    Thank you, Mr Director-General and Madam Chairperson.  CONSTITUTION DU COMITÉ DE VÉRIFICATION DES POUVOIRS   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  CONSTITUCIÓN DEL COMITÉ DE VERIFICACIÓN DE PODERES  УЧРЕЖДЕНИЕ КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ   א 成立全权证书委员会
6.1 The PRESIDENT:    Ladies and gentlemen, the next task before us is to establish the Credentials Committee. As you all know,  and according to Rule 32, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Credentials Committee  consists of nine Member States elected by the General Conference upon proposal of the Temporary President, with due  regard to fair geographical distribution. After careful examination of the composition of previous committees, and  following consultations of a great number of delegations, I would like to suggest that the Credentials Committee be  composed of the following countries: Azerbaijan, Costa Rica, El Salvador, France, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,  Madagascar, Mozambique, Oman, Saudi Arabia. Are there any objections to this suggestion? It is so decided.
6.2 Allow me to remind you that, according to Rule 32, paragraph 2, the Committee is responsible for electing its  own Chairperson. I would like now to invite its members to meet immediately in Room VIII. Thank you.  CONSTITUTION DU COMITÉ DES CANDIDATURES  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  CONSTITUCIÓN DEL COMITÉ DE CANDIDATURAS  УЧРЕЖДЕНИЕ КОМИТЕТА ПО КАНДИДАТУРАМ   א 成立提名委员会
7.1 The PRESIDENT:    Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for us to set up the Nominations Committee. As you know,  and according to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Nominations Committee consists of  the heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. The head of any delegation may designate another  member of his or her delegation to attend meetings and vote in his or her place; the representative of each delegation on  the Committee may be assisted by another member of the delegation. Furthermore, Rule 34, paragraph 4, provides that  the Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. I now invite the Nominations Committee to hold its first meeting in  Room IV.
7.2 Colleagues, dear friends, Excellencies, I propose now to suspend the meeting for a few minutes in order to  welcome our distinguished guests, Ms Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, President of the Republic of the Philippines and Mr  Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, President of the Italian Republic. During this suspension, I invite you to remain seated and to
11  warmly welcome the UNESCO choir composed of members of the personnel of UNESCO who will perform Nocturnes  by Mozart. Enjoy yourselves until we join you again. Thank you.  (A musical interlude is performed by the UNESCO choir)  (The meeting is suspended at 10.50 a.m. and resumes at 11.10 a.m.)  VISITES DE S. E. MME GLORIA MACAPAGAL ARROYO, PRÉSIDENTE DE LA RÉPUBLIQUE  DES PHILIPPINES ET DE S. E. M. CARLO AZEGLIO CIAMPI, PRÉSIDENT DE LA RÉPUBLIQUE ITALIENNE  VISITS BY H.E. MS GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE  PHILIPPINES, AND H.E. MR CARLO AZEGLIO CIAMPI, PRESIDENT OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC  VISITA DE LA EXMA. SRA. GLORIA MACAPAGAL ARROYO, PRESIDENTA DE LA REPÚBLICA DE  FILIPINAS Y DEL EXCMO. SR. CARLO AZEGLIO CIAMPI, PRESIDENTE DE LA REPÚBLICA ITALIANA  ВИЗИТЫ ЕЕ ПРЕВОСХОДИТЕЛЬСТВА Г-ЖИ ГЛОРИИ МАКАПАГАЛЬ АРРОЙО, ПРЕЗИДЕНТА  РЕСПУБЛИКИ ФИЛИППИНЫ И ЕГО ПРЕВОСХОДИТЕЛЬСТВА Г-НА КАРЛО АДЗЕЛО ЧАМПИ,  ПРЕЗИДЕНТА РЕСПУБЛИКИ ИТАЛИЯ  א א א ، א א א א ،  菲律宾共和国总统格洛丽亚·马卡帕加尔·阿罗约女士阁下和意大利共和国总统卡罗·阿泽利奥·钱皮先生阁 下的访问  (H.E. Ms Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and H.E. Mr Carlo Azeglio Ciampi  take their places at the rostrum)
8.1 The PRESIDENT:    Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, it is an immense honour and a great pleasure to welcome to this 32nd  session of the General Conference and to the house of tolerance and dialogue and intellectuality the President of the  Republic of the Philippines, Her Excellency Ms Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and the President of the Italian Republic, His  Excellency Mr Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. Distinguished guests, please accept my most cordial welcome to UNESCO  Headquarters. On this particular occasion allow me to say a few words.
8.2 Her Excellency Ms Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was sworn in as President of the Philippines in 2001, after  having been elected Vice-President with the largest number of votes in the history of the elections. After a glowing  academic career in the field of commerce and economics she entered government and was the author of many laws on  economic and social reforms. As President she has sought to unite people under the values of poverty alleviation, high  morals in government and society, leadership by example and new policies and politics. Committed to strengthening  regional solidarity, she has won support for the establishment of a regional anti-terrorist network and is internationally  recognized as a leader in the global war against poverty and terrorism. It is my pleasure, Madam President, to welcome  you to this house and invite you to take the floor.
9.1 Ms MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (President of the Republic of the Philippines):    Thank you very much. Mr Ahmad Jalali, His Excellency Mr Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, President of Italy,  Madame Aziza Bennani, Chairperson of the UNESCO Executive Board, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of  UNESCO, Excellencies, delegates to the 32nd session of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.  (The speaker continues in French)
9.2 L’éducation, la culture et les sciences sont des outils indispensables pour rendre l’homme capable d’être  maître de son destin.  (L’orateur poursuit en anglais)
9.3 Let me begin by thanking UNESCO for four recent gestures to promote my country’s cultural heritage. First, its  assistance in preserving our millennia-old Ifugao rice terraces in the northern Philippines. Aside from their wondrous  beauty, these rice terraces testify to our ancestors’ sophistication in the science of upland irrigation. Second, the  designation of the Earthsavers’ Dream Ensemble composed of persons with disabilities, as UNESCO artists for peace. This  ensemble demonstrates that in the Philippines physical disability need not prevent cultural excellence. Third, the inclusion  of our collection of various radio broadcasts documenting the events of our 1986 bloodless People’s Power Revolution in  UNESCO’s Memory of the World register. These broadcasts demonstrate that a great part of cultural heritage is intangible  in nature – music, dance, oral poetry and even historic radio broadcasts. We take this opportunity to urge this Conference  to approve the draft international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. Fourth, UNESCO’s
12  assistance in analysing the impact of illegal fishing on the Tubbataha Reef in the western Philippines. Tubbataha Reef is  number one in biodiversity in the world today and its protection illustrates a culture of respect for nature.
9.4 On the part of the Philippines I am happy to report that the Philippines Senate recently ratified the UNESCO  Regional Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Diplomas and Degrees. But, more fundamentally, what I would  like to do today is to affirm and elaborate on my country’s support for the overarching priority given by UNESCO to  the eradication of poverty and to the formation of knowledge societies. On the eradication of poverty, among the  institutions in the United Nations system UNESCO embodies the holistic approach to development. As the leader of a  developing country faced with the challenge of winning the battle against poverty, I firmly believe that empowering  individuals holds the key to achieving this goal. Education, culture and the sciences are indispensable tools for  empowerment. Mankind has made tremendous progress in these fields, especially in the technological and scientific  fields, yet progress remains elusive, particularly in the developing world. Conflicts are symptoms of this elusive  progress, of the inequities around us. Without meaningful access to economic opportunity people feel excluded,  exclusion breeds resentment, and this in turn makes the excluded easy recruits for those who espouse violent means for  their own selfish or radical agenda.
9.5 My Government has adopted a comprehensive approach in the battle against poverty composed of: a market  environment to create jobs, strong institutions of governance, social safety nets and agricultural modernization founded  on social equity. Education is key to all these components of our war against poverty. We continue to pursue greater  international cooperation in information and communication technology (ICT) development and education. UNESCO’s  Medium-Term Strategy addresses this issue and we are therefore in complete accord with UNESCO’s goals and  implementation programmes. In that regard, my Government is pursuing greater access to education by “closing the  classroom gap” and mainstreaming distance learning. In our developing country, with meagre fiscal resources, we  define “closing the classroom gap” as building additional classrooms in schools where the student-classroom ratio  exceeds 100 to one. In schools where the student-classroom ratio is less than 100 to one, but more than 50 to one, we do  two shifts for our students and teachers. We are also setting up the distance learning programme in an initial 400 of our  poor and far-flung villages. These villages are Christian, Muslim, or a mixture, or represent many of the other religions  and ethnic origins in our country.
9.6 Because the Philippines is a multi-ethnic society, so it supports UNESCO’s drawing up of an international  instrument on cultural diversity. On the part of our country, I have adopted a policy of institutional accommodation of  our various cultural traditions, by such policies as empowering the madrasa schools of our Muslim communities to  become part of the formal educational system. In our formal educational system we emphasize mathematics and science  in the new basic curriculum in order to prepare our citizens for gainful employment in the knowledge economy.
9.7 And this brings us to UNESCO’s thrust towards forming knowledge societies. The Philippines agrees that we  should focus on creating knowledge societies rather than on information societies. What is the difference between the  two? Information societies are too closely linked to the idea of technological innovation alone, while knowledge  societies also capture the dynamism and complexity of the challenges we face. Information societies focus on providing  hardware and software, but knowledge societies give attention as well to the human and social systems that must also be  transformed for technology to make a difference. In information societies the concept of the digital divide attaches  overriding importance to the physical availability of computers and connectivity, but in knowledge societies the concept  of the digital divide is widened to the issues of content, language, education, literacy, and community and social  resources. In knowledge societies the concept of the digital divide recognizes that the poor in developing countries  remain isolated economically, socially and culturally from the growing content of the arts, science and technology. It  recognizes that the problem is magnified by the language barrier because English is used in 80 percent of websites  although only ten percent of the world speaks the language. The capital and intellectual responses to this digital divide  require significant resources and this makes private-public partnerships in ICT development imperative.
9.8 In our country there is a project called “Filipinas SchoolNet”. It is a multi-stage, multi-company sponsored  project to equip public schools for a digital economy. It has teamed up with a consortium of companies to connect  public high schools with each other for tele-collaboration in curriculum development and sharing of teaching materials.  This public-private sector partnership in building bridges to cover the digital divide is being propagated through the  Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). It has made inroads in the training and curriculum development  aspect in Viet Nam and Cambodia. Resolving the digital divide in knowledge societies would require holistic plans and  programmes covering policy, human capacity, enterprise, applications, content and infrastructure that can serve as a  catalyst for development. This points to an urgent need for a multilateral institution capable of orchestrating such an  effort that could maximize private-public partnerships. UNESCO can be that institution.
9.9 UNESCO’s mandate after all renders it uniquely able to fight and win the war against poverty through  education, science and culture. This Conference provides us with the opportunity to move forward in addressing these  concerns. I have high hopes that in a spirit of partnership and cooperation we will achieve our goals.
13  (The speaker continues in French)
9.10 Former l’esprit de l’homme, rendre la connaissance accessible à tous, apporter la dignité humaine à chaque  individu, famille et société, promouvoir la paix avec compréhension, tolérance et savoir - cela reste notre tâche  essentielle. Merci.
10.1 The PRESIDENT:    Thank you very much, Madam President, for your illuminating address. It has told us a lot about your efforts  and ideas.
10.2 I now take this opportunity to introduce the distinguished President of Italy, Mr Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. He is  the only Italian President ever to have been elected in the first round of elections by the Italian Parliament. This is not  just an anecdote but evidence of his image as a statesman who has always enjoyed the broadest consensus in all sectors  of Italian public and political life. As a young officer – he is still young of course – he served the cause of freedom  against fascism, and as a young man he served his country after graduating brilliantly from one of the most prestigious  universities in Italy, La Normale di Pisa. As an economist, his successful career in the Italian Central Bank culminated  in his promotion to its highest position, that of Governor. His experience, his balanced approach and his undeniable  competence propelled him to the highest political responsibilities, including Minister of Finance and Head of  Government, duties that he always carried out in the best interests of his country. A committed European, he has left his  mark on the most significant areas of European integration and today the European Union regards him as one of the  most inspired and convincing interpreters of the amazing achievement of peace, progress and democracy in Europe.
10.3 It is my honour, Mr President, to welcome you to this house of intellectuality, which is the house of the  world’s conscience. I invite you to illuminate us with your words, Mr President.
11.1 M. CIAMPI (Président de la République italienne) (Allocution prononcée en italien ; texte établi à partir de  l’interprétation en français) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, je souhaite remercier le Président de la Conférence générale de  l’UNESCO pour son aimable accueil et pour les paroles d’introduction qu’il a prononcées. C’est avec un très grand  plaisir que j’ai accepté, à l’invitation du Directeur général, M. Matsuura, d'assister à l'ouverture de la 32e session de la  Conférence générale de l'UNESCO aux côtés de la Présidente de la République des Philippines, Mme Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo, à laquelle je suis heureux d'adresser mes salutations cordiales.
11.2 L'UNESCO est une institution née à une époque qui nous apparaît aujourd'hui fort lointaine, mais la tâche qui  lui fut confiée alors, n'a rien perdu de sa valeur. De l'accomplissement de cette mission dépend encore l'avenir même de  l'humanité. Lorsque le 16 novembre 1945 fut approuvé à Londres l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO les conséquences  tragiques de la guerre la plus destructrice de l'histoire étaient dans tous les esprits. Le 26 juin 1945, quelques semaines  seulement après la fin de ce terrible conflit, la Charte des Nations Unies, dont l'objectif premier était d'épargner aux  générations futures le fléau de la guerre était signée à San Francisco. Quelques mois plus tard, les gouvernements qui  venaient de fonder l'Organisation des Nations Unies créaient l'UNESCO. Cette décision a constitué une étape  importante dans la mise en place de l'ensemble d'institutions et d'organisations qui permettent aux Nations Unies de  jouer pleinement leur rôle et de réaliser toutes leurs potentialités. Me reviennent à l'esprit les paroles prononcées par le  Premier Ministre britannique Clement Atlee à l'ouverture de la Conférence qui allait donner naissance à l'UNESCO :  "Plus les peuples se rendront compte de tout ce qu'ils ont en commun et de la manière et des raisons pour lesquelles ils  sont différents les uns des autres, plus ils répugneront à prendre les armes les uns contre les autres". L'éducation des  peuples est le fondement même de la paix. Pouvons-nous dire après plus d'un demi-siècle que la mission si bien définie  dans le Préambule de l'Acte constitutif de l'UNESCO - élever les défenses de la paix dans l'esprit des peuples - est  accomplie ? Je crains qu'il ne faille en toute conscience répondre que cette œuvre est loin d'être achevée.
11.3 Les gouvernements ont confié à l'UNESCO l'immense tâche d'assurer la diffusion de la culture et l'éducation  de tous en vue de promouvoir la justice, la liberté et la paix. Pour être menée à bien, cette tâche exige l'engagement de  plusieurs générations. Aujourd'hui, comme il y a 50 ans, elle peut paraître encore utopique. Elle est pourtant plus que  jamais indispensable. Les idéaux qui inspiraient alors les hommes d'État ont une longue histoire. L'importance centrale  de la personne humaine, la sauvegarde de sa dignité, son aspiration à la liberté et à la justice, trouvent des racines  anciennes dans la civilisation de l'Occident. Selon des parcours historiques différents, d'autres grandes civilisations ont  à leur tour œuvré pour promouvoir les idéaux de paix qui sont au fondement des aspirations humaines et pour affirmer  le respect des droits fondamentaux de l'homme. On observe donc à toutes les époques et sous toutes les latitudes le  même attachement de l'esprit humain aux valeurs universelles. C'est dans ces valeurs universelles que nous tous,  représentants de tous les peuples du monde, pouvons nous reconnaître en les sentant nôtres.
11.4 Dans le monde d'aujourd'hui, où l'homme dispose d'armes de destruction massive d'une puissance sans  précédent, le destin de chaque peuple est lié à celui de tous les autres peuples. La diffusion d'une culture universaliste et  d'une pédagogie de la paix nous apparaît plus que jamais comme la voie à suivre pour la sauvegarde de toutes les  nations de la terre. L'existence d'une organisation internationale se vouant à la diffusion dans le monde des valeurs  centrées sur l'homme qui, depuis toujours, sont nécessaires à l'existence d'une société civile est une source d'inspiration  et de confiance pour mon peuple comme pour tous les autres. Des décennies de travail patient à l'UNESCO ont prouvé  que l'objectif qui lui avait été assigné était le fruit de la clairvoyance. Grâce aussi à l'UNESCO, la société moderne voit  dans la culture et dans l'art les instruments de sa survie et de son progrès. En sauvegardant les témoignages de tant de  civilisations, qui se sont trop longtemps ignorées ou opposées, l'UNESCO invite tous les hommes à lutter contre  l'intolérance, ce fruit pervers de l'incompréhension entre les peuples. Chaque nouvelle menace accroît les attentes des  États membres et, partant, les responsabilités et les tâches qui incombent à l'UNESCO. Les hésitations et les erreurs  passées sont compréhensibles ; il fallait les corriger et cela a été fait. L'important est que l'UNESCO se retrouve à  présent plus unie et plus résolue dans la mise en œuvre des objectifs qui lui ont été fixés. Je suis heureux de saluer  aujourd'hui le retour, au sein de l'Organisation, des États-Unis d'Amérique, pays porteur d'une culture démocratique  profonde et diversifiée qui a inspiré quinze autres peuples. Je m'en réjouis et pour les États-Unis et pour l'UNESCO.
11.5 L'éducation, clé de la liberté des individus, est aussi la clé du développement et du progrès social et civil des  États. Avec la lutte contre la faim, l'engagement en faveur de l'éducation est d'une importance fondamentale dans le  cadre de la coopération Nord-Sud. Le volontariat, les mouvements associatifs scolaires et l'attention portée aux  problèmes de l'enfance sont des éléments essentiels du patrimoine de l'UNESCO, que celle-ci a l'obligation d'enrichir.  Le maintien et l'amélioration des équilibres écologiques de la planète, la sauvegarde des grands sites qui constituent le  patrimoine naturel, le renforcement des capacités scientifiques et technologiques, la réflexion sur l'éthique des sciences  et la bioéthique, sur les transformations sociales et sur les migrations internationales doivent rester au cœur des  préoccupations de l'UNESCO. L'attachement de l'UNESCO à une science qui vise également à améliorer les conditions  de vie des pays émergents doit être soutenu. Il s'est exprimé dans les instruments internationaux qu'elle a déjà adoptés,  comme la Déclaration universelle sur le génome humain, ou en voie d'adoption, comme la Déclaration internationale  sur les données génétiques, de même que par son apport aux recherches visant à faire face aux urgences sanitaires  planétaires. Expression de la conscience et du respect du patrimoine spirituel reçu en héritage et de celui d'autrui, la  culture est un rempart qui protège contre les clivages et les rapports antagonistes entre États. Elle concilie les exigences  de liberté des individus, la communication entre les peuples et la coopération entre les États.
11.6 Nous sommes de plus en plus souvent placés devant une alternative : dialogue et respect mutuels d'une part,  intolérance de l'autre. Lorsque l'intolérance l'emporte, elle débouche sur les conflits et sur la destruction des ressources  sociales et économiques. L'espoir, longtemps nourri, d'une communauté internationale régie par des règles communes et  s'étendant à tous les peuples de la terre a commencé à devenir réalité dans la deuxième moitié du XXe siècle. La Charte  des Nations Unies proclame la dignité et la valeur de la personne humaine, et appelle au respect des droits de l'homme  et des libertés fondamentales. Un système multilatéral, fondé sur des principes et des règles partagés est une garantie  pour tous. Pour le construire, nous devons forger entre le Nord et le Sud une alliance novatrice s'appuyant sur un certain  nombre de piliers fondamentaux - lutte contre la pauvreté, diffusion de l'instruction, de la formation et de la science,  coexistence pacifique de confessions religieuses et de cultures différentes, abolition de toutes les formes de  discrimination. Il y a trois ans à peine, la communauté internationale, dans la Déclaration du Millénaire, où sont  réaffirmés solennellement les principes indispensables au progrès de l'humanité, a jugé nécessaire d'en dénoncer  l'insuffisante application, surtout dans le domaine de l'éducation. Je le rappelle ; la liberté et l'égalité, la solidarité et la  tolérance, le partage des responsabilités, le respect de la diversité et la conscience d'un patrimoine culturel et naturel  commun restent des objectifs tout à fait actuels. Réaliser ces objectifs est une responsabilité à laquelle nous ne saurions  nous dérober. Ce n'est qu'en nous assignant des projets opérationnels pragmatiques que nous pourrons espérer mettre fin  aux conflits qui ensanglantent si tragiquement tant de régions dans le monde et qui détruisent des ressources précieuses.  Les décisions que les gouvernements sont appelés à prendre individuellement ou dans le cadre multilatéral pour  atteindre des objectifs reconnus comme indispensables ne sauraient aujourd'hui faire abstraction du contexte global. La  mondialisation a pénétré dans nos vies. Elle accélère la circulation des idées comme des facteurs de production. Mais  elle suscite aussi des interrogations légitimes, auxquelles nous devons apporter des réponses responsables en toute  connaissance de cause. L'UNESCO l'a bien compris. Protéger le patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel de  l'humanité, sauvegarder et transmettre aux générations futures les savoirs, les arts, les métiers et les traditions et langues  locales est une manière de contrôler la mondialisation. La défense du droit à la diversité est aussi un défi du XXIe siècle.  C'est un impératif moral et politique.
11.7 La Déclaration universelle de l'UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle codifie des principes, énonce des objectifs  et indique les moyens à mettre en œuvre. L'Italie souhaite l'adoption d'un instrument normatif sur la diversité culturelle  qui refléterait la volonté de tout pays de protéger son identité historique et l'unicité de son patrimoine culturel, physique  et immatériel. Un régime juridique international renforcera le dialogue interculturel et le développement durable.  L'Union européenne offre un exemple extraordinaire de traditions diverses s'harmonisant et se reconnaissant les unes les
15  autres en une synthèse supérieure. Elle a rompu à tout jamais avec la logique des rapports de force comme règle de vie.  Elle est passée d'un système d'alliances à une authentique communauté de destin. Elle a dépassé la logique des conflits,  des équilibres de pouvoirs et affirmé sa foi dans le rôle prééminent des principes, des valeurs et des règles. Elle a  reconnu dans la multiplicité de ses racines et de ses traditions le fondement de l'identité européenne commune et créé  les institutions qui lui permettent de traduire en actes ses idéaux. La constitution européenne, dont le texte est en voie de  finalisation, permettra à l'Union européenne, en tant que sujet de droit, de faire entendre sa voix et d'affirmer sa culture  et sa civilisation dans la recherche de solutions aux graves problèmes de notre époque.
11.8 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, l'esprit, l'engagement et l'action de l'UNESCO, invitent tous  nos pays à être à la hauteur de leurs responsabilités afin de réaliser ensemble des objectifs ambitieux - diffuser l'éducation,  la science et la culture, en tant que véhicules de la communication entre les peuples. Nous devons tirer une fois pour toutes  la leçon des tragédies du XXe siècle. Nous devons avoir foi en la capacité de l'être humain de relever les défis les plus  difficiles et être convaincus que le système des Nations Unires représente encore aujourd'hui l'instrument le mieux à même  de rendre le monde meilleur et plus sûr. Il existe partout une grande majorité qui désire la paix, le bien-être et la sérénité et  qui se reconnaît dans des valeurs communes. Nous devons agir de toutes nos forces et faire obstacle aux prophètes du  défaitisme et de la violence qui voudraient qu'aux anciens affrontements entre puissances succèdent de nouveaux conflits  entre civilisations. L'éducation et la culture sont les ressources qui vous ont été confiées pour repousser les menaces  d'affrontement, de terrorisme et d'abus. Les conditions sont réunies pour que le XXIe siècle soit marqué par une nouvelle  avancée de l'humanité. Aujourd'hui, nous nous regardons les uns les autres avec sérénité ; appréciant à sa juste valeur le  rôle joué par chacun, nous défendons partout la dignité de la personne. L'éducation et la culture, solidement placées au  cœur du travail de tous, nous aideront à vaincre l'obscurantisme de l'intolérance et à nous garder des aberrations auxquelles  sont exposées toutes les cultures. Nous redécouvrirons ainsi, que par-delà sa diversité, l'humanité possède une matrice  commune, source de respect mutuel et de dialogue. Je vous remercie.
12.1 The PRESIDENT:    Thank you so much, Mr President. On behalf of all the countries represented in this room, I should like to  extend my warmest thanks to our eminent guests. Their presence and their words here today remind us that tolerance  and dialogue among peoples and nations are an essential goal – a key to a safe future, to democracy, to progress and to  peace. In listening to our distinguished guests we realize how much UNESCO has to offer and how much the leaders of  the world can help UNESCO to make its presence felt in decision-making processes and among decision makers. Thank  you once again for your presence and for your words.
12.2 Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, I now ask you to remain seated while we take leave of our  distinguished guests. Thank you.  (The meeting is suspended for a few minutes while the President  of the Republic of the Philippines and the President of the Italian Republic   are escorted from the room)
12.3 Distinguished colleagues, I ask you to take your places. Before adjourning this meeting after the ceremony  you have just witnessed, I have some information for you. First of all, I remind you that the Credentials and  Nominations Committees have been invited to hold their first meetings. Secondly, I am pleased to announce that the  inauguration of the sculpture “Freccia” by Arnaldo Pomodoro, donated to UNESCO by the Italian Government, will be  held in a few minutes on the Piazza in the presence of His Excellency the President of the Italian Republic. In order to  proceed to the location of the ceremony, please turn left on your way out of this room, cross the exhibition hall and then  go outside to the Piazza. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are all aware, Ms Laura Welch Bush, First Lady of the United  States of America, will pay a visit to UNESCO on the occasion of the renewal of her country’s membership to  UNESCO. We shall welcome her. I would like to insist on punctuality for this afternoon’s meeting which will resume at
3 o’clock sharp. Allow me also to remind you of the importance of punctuality in the coming days in order for us to  avoid falling behind. Thank you very much.