163  Septième séance plénière
2 octobre 2003 à 10 h 10  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  puis : Mme NDONG-JATTA (Gambie)  Seventh plenary meeting
1. The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegations, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the seventh plenary  meeting. Before we proceed with the continuation of the General Policy debate this morning, I would like to invite the  Chairperson of the Credentials Committee to present to us his second report. Mr Chairperson, you have the floor.
2.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar), président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, depuis la lecture de mon premier  rapport en séance plénière le 30 septembre 2003, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations  des deux pays dont les noms s’affichent sur l’écran : il s’agit de Malte et Vanuatu. Le Comité a également reçu les  pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations des pays dont la liste s’affiche à présent et qui avaient auparavant  présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Ces pays sont les suivants : Andorre, Cameroun, Ghana, Irlande, Kirghizistan,  Norvège, Pologne, République démocratique du Congo et Tchad. Le Comité a reçu en outre les pouvoirs provisoires de  la délégation d’un Membre associé qui n’avait pas auparavant présenté de pouvoirs : il s’agit de Macao, Chine. Le  Comité a également reçu les pouvoirs provisoires de la délégation d’observateurs de la Palestine, qui n’avait pas encore  présenté de pouvoirs. En conséquence, Monsieur le Président, conformément à l’autorisation qui m’a été donnée par le  Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs.
2.2 D’autre part, les délégations d’États membres dont les noms suivent n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs :  Antigua-et-Barbuda, Djibouti, États-Unis d’Amérique, Guinée-Bissau, Îles Cook, Îles Marshall, Libéria, Micronésie  (États fédérés de), Nauru, Timor-Leste et Tuvalu. Les délégations des Membres associés dont les noms apparaissent  maintenant à l’écran n’ont pas elles non plus présenté de pouvoirs : Aruba, Îles Caïmanes et Tokélaou. Enfin, en ce qui  concerne les délégations d’observateurs, n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs celles des États suivants : Brunéi  Darussalam et Liechtenstein. Tel est mon rapport aujourd’hui, Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie.
3. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Y a-t-il des commentaires ou des observations ? Oui. J’en prends note.  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous allons pour l’instant poursuivre le débat de politique générale.  DÉBAT DE POLITIQUE GÉNÉRALE (suite)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)  DEBATE DE POLÍTICA GENERAL (continuación)  ОБСУЖДЕНИЕ ВОПРОСОВ ВНЕШНЕЙ ПОЛИТИКИ (продолжение)  א  )(א 总政策辩论续（续）
4. The PRESIDENT:  Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, may I once more remind you of the time limit of eight minutes that has  been set for all of us. As you know, those who exceed this limit will have the painful experience of being interrupted by  music, while anyone keeping within the time limit will receive a very precious gift from the heart of Africa. I would like  you to take advantage of these gifts from Africa, otherwise I shall have to take them back to Nigeria as excess baggage  on my way home. I would therefore be most obliged if you would all respect the eight-minute time limit. It is now my  pleasure to invite the honourable Minister of Education of El Salvador to make his presentation this morning.
(5.1) Mr MARÍN COTO (El Salvador) (translation from the Spanish)   Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished Vice-Presidents, Madam Chairperson of the Executive  Board, Heads of Delegation, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen: for small, emerging and developing nations  such as El Salvador, education and culture are key components in the transition from an economy based on the traditional  factors of production, such as capital and raw materials, to one that places increasing emphasis on knowledge. Education  and culture boost human capital, strengthen social capital and facilitate the processes of cooperation and smooth social  interactions essential to high-production economies. Culture is a potential factor of civic integration and identity, and it is  based on forms of knowing, being, doing and living in harmony with others. To safeguard our cultural heritage is to  strengthen our past, which unites us for the task of building the future. It is a source of pride and satisfaction to us that we  are celebrating the second anniversary of the inclusion of our archaeological site Joya De Cerén in the UNESCO World  Heritage List. It is also 10 years since the adoption of our Special Law on the Protection of the Cultural Heritage, and we  have formed Central American teams to safeguard the cultural heritage in the event of disaster in any country of the  region. Convinced that our chief heritage is the human being, we recently completed a profile of the indigenous peoples  of El Salvador so as to address their needs.
(5.2) In addition to the key functions of providing a basis for national identities, promoting social cohesion and  ensuring that accumulated knowledge is handed down between generations, education also has the role of sustaining and  underpinning economic and social development. Modern technological changes are increasingly modifying educational  management in response to the immediate requirements of the business community and the world of work. In this context,  the task of ministers of education in the developing countries is to manage the national investment in human capital, to  increase the national stock of such capital, and to reduce the gaps in its training, with the aim of furthering access to  technologies by the regions and national and international socio-economic groups, and ensure the quality training of the  new human capital.
(5.3) In response to this situation, El Salvador has over the last four years included the framing of a national policy  and the creation of a new National System of Quality Education in its sustained efforts to increase the coverage of all  levels of education. Our action has been focused on constructing an effective System of Professional Teacher  Development, a System of Educational Information, Monitoring and Assessment, an Institutional Evaluation and  Accreditation System for Higher Education, and various educational innovation programmes. Our activity’s guiding  principle is to make the school a dynamic and autonomous agency for meeting the needs of its local environment and to  overhaul both initial and in-service teacher training policies. These innovative systems of decentralized training establish  new alliances between local study centres, independent training bodies such as universities, higher centres of educational  research, consultancies and individual specialists, the private sector and the State education system.
(5.4)  In step with the increasing participation and involvement of parents and other members of the local  community in the educational enterprise, the teaching environment is being changed into a living, dynamic and relevant  entity for meeting the needs of the most direct beneficiaries of educational action – our children, young people and adults.  We assume that the gap in achievement between pupils depends to a large extent on the socio-economic situation of the  family and the social environment and we are proposing, to offset and correct these inequalities, the establishment of a  creative and intelligent relationship between the organization of the school, the quality of teacher training, and the  commitment and attitudes of the wider educational community. We believe in the qualitative impact of civic participation,  which has had an important role in Salvadorian education – from the promotion of programmes to extend the coverage  and improve the quality of rural education, such as EDUCO, an internationally recognized programme in which parents  are responsible for the administration and management of schools, to the reconstruction in less than a year, with national  and international help, of more than half of all our schools, which had been damaged as a result of two extremely  powerful earthquakes occurring within the space of one month in 2001.
(5.5)  In this connection, I am pleased to be able to inform this Conference that El Salvador has been very  successful in working in coordination with all the governmental and non-governmental bodies operating in the  educational field. We have promoted the Dakar Agreements and we have already drafted and reached a consensus on the  National Education for All Plan. This process began at the start of 2002, with the participation of the majority of the civil  society organizations in the country, the Ministry of Education, UNESCO and other international bodies. In the course of
2002, the various agencies that undertook the preparatory work for the establishment of the National Education for All  Forum, organized in the form of broad-based committees, were acquainted with each of the educational projects being  implemented by the Ministry of Education and linked them with the Dakar objectives and the projected goals for 2015. In  October 2002, a unit of the Ministry of Education was designated by this group to coordinate the drafting, publicizing and  evaluation, in conjunction with civil partner bodies, of the Education for All Plan and the establishment of the National  Forum.
(5.6) Mr President, at a time when we are making the transition from the industrial society to the knowledge  society, in which economic growth is increasingly based on the generation and application of new technologies, it is
167  important to avoid new gaps in the introduction of information communication technologies among members of the  teaching community. We must also safeguard the integrity of the human factor vis-à-vis the media instrumental in the  educational process and develop an information and communication infrastructure of the highest quality in the service of  all so as to meet the needs of all participants in the education system and their social environment. El Salvador is  therefore gratified that document 32 C/5 gives priority to teaching and access to knowledge and information. Finally,  Mr President, along with these important activities, we likewise measure and value the efforts that the Latin American  countries are making, in association with many and varied groups belonging to civil society, with the aim of achieving  quality education for all and with the help of all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(7.1) Mr RASHEED (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr President of the General Conference,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, I greet you all in friendship, with respect and esteem. I should like to congratulate the President of the General  Conference on the confidence placed in him. May I also express my high regard for the efforts undertaken by all senior  officials in this noble Organization of ours.
(7.2) Humanity has made extraordinary strides in the fields of science and communications. The entire world has in  effect become one place: a person can talk with someone who is on the other side of the earth, and can both hear and see  him or her. Despite this astonishing accomplishment, however, there is still no answer to the question of how peace can  reign on planet Earth if relations between peoples and governments are not based on the values of justice, freedom and  mutual respect. It is essential for this Organization to develop a shared ethical constitution that may be adopted by all  humanity. Such a constitution is a necessary condition enabling us to implement the agreements we have reached as they  would be practical expressions of its bases and principles. Of what crime are hundreds of millions of innocent, powerless  people guilty, that they should be condemned to live in a world in which the strong devour the weak and the wealthy steal  the possessions of the poor, a world in which a gang of criminals can go freely about, assassinating peace, purity and  security in people’s hearts and minds and blighting their spirits? The right to food, the right to medical treatment, the  right to water, the right to knowledge, the right to dignity, all these must become fundamental human rights guaranteed  by the international community, and they must be enshrined in the ethical constitution of which I was just speaking.
(7.3) We in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have been afflicted with a number of acts of violence and terrorism  perpetrated by a few mentally or psychologically warped individuals, but we are still one of the world’s most internally  secure and stable States. For this we have to thank the Islamic religion, the teachings of which are our guide. Saudi  Arabia’s confidence in its role as a pillar of civilization is absolutely unshakable. On this occasion, we call once again on  UNESCO to develop a precise and unambiguous definition of “terrorism”, one that cannot be twisted or interpreted to  suit the various views and interests of different parties. There is a great difference between terrorism on the one hand, and  resistance to an occupier and self-defence on the other.
(7.4) Ladies and gentlemen, cooperation among civilizations is vital for the spread of peace and prosperity in the  world, and a prerequisite for such cooperation is good will and a sincere desire to bring it about. A “clash of civilizations”  is by no means something natural or inevitable, it is a product of human greed, ambition and hostility to other human  beings. I have no hesitation in asserting that every civilization that has ever arisen has benefited from what other  civilizations had to offer, and the more open a civilization is to other civilizations, both giving and taking, the richer and  more flourishing it will be. I am quite sure that any community that can be described as civilized has borrowed from  other civilizations, and that every community that is closed in upon itself must of necessity be uncivilized. Different  civilizations share many common denominators, they meet at many points, as honest members of both will recognize.
169  They will understand that there are differences between them, they will be aware of the reasons for those differences, and  they will respect each other despite divergences in their respective views and outlooks.
(7.5) Ladies and gentlemen, despite our optimism about a better future, God willing, when we look at the situation  today, we cannot but be saddened at what we see: unsustainable growth that disregards environmental equilibrium and  takes no account of the fact that future generations have a right to live in a healthy environment, which it is our duty to  bequeath to them; increasing greed that is widening the gap separating the developing States from the developed States; a  terrifying ethical void in which the strong fabricate values that suit their interests, values that they then seek to impose on  the rest of the world, but will discard in favour of different ones as soon as their interests require. Would not agreement  on values be an initiative that would foster mutual understanding and civilized relations? Surely there is no reason why  our Organization should not work with all its might in those areas that can rescue humanity from these crises?
(7.6) In that connection, I cannot forbear to mention the injustice, aggression and killing that are occurring in many  parts of the world, including Palestine, the Holy Land, which has become the scene of a growing tragedy, as its people  are deprived of the most important and essential human rights: food, clothing, medicine, security and education. Homes  are demolished over the heads of their occupants, trees are cut down, livestock is destroyed and people are deprived of  the means of livelihood. These have become the routine conditions under which Palestinians live. The spectacle is  presented on the world’s television screens day after day, while the world watches impassively, unmoved and indifferent.
(7.7) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to emphasize our support for the contents of the Draft Programme and  Budget for the coming biennium, and in particular for the draft resolution on a solidarity fund for water, which was  prepared by Saudi Arabia and submitted by the group of Arab States in the Organization. In view of the fact that one  sixth of humanity does not have access to this fundamental human right, this is a vital matter that cannot be neglected. I  should also like to express our admiration for the Organization’s efforts in the sphere of education for all. Saudi Arabia is  proud to have merited a mark of the Organization’s esteem in the form of the King Sejong Literacy Prize.
(7.8) One reason why I am optimistic about UNESCO’s ability to realize its aspirations is the fact that the United  States of America has returned to this Organization. The United States is a great country, one that is founded on lofty  principles and has made outstanding contributions to the advance of civilization. The world today needs all the help it can  get in its pursuit of justice, peace and love. UNESCO is a forum in which we hope to see the United States play a major  positive and effective role, taking and giving, hearing and being heard, participating in the most important areas of human  development, namely education, science and culture.
(7.9) Ladies and gentlemen, I beseech Almighty God to ensure that peace, justice, ethics and solidarity will prevail  on our planet, and that present and future generations will reap the fruits of love and cooperation, rather than hatred and  strife. I thank you all for your attention.
8. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, and thank you for keeping within the limit. It is now my special  delight to call the honourable Minister of Education of South Africa. Please come to the rostrum.
9.1 Mr ASMAL (South Africa):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has become a truism of our time that we live in a globalizing world.  The expanded scope and accelerated pace of border-crossing flows of people, money, and technology are generating a  world of interconnectedness. These same processes are, however, producing an increasingly polarized world. The entire  world is divided by the widening gap within and between states, between rich and poor, strong and weak, and insiders  and outsiders in the global play of power. And so, the task before us, in UNESCO and elsewhere, is to find ways of  harnessing the processes and resources of globalization to build bridges across the divisions of a polarized world. But  we need to aspire to more than merely bridging the divide. We need to dissolve the global divide by ensuring a degree  of symmetry in benefits.
9.2 South Africa, Mr President, desires to draw attention to three challenges that are essential for constructive  intervention in globalization: first of all reviving multilateralism, secondly reviving values, and thirdly resisting the  commodification of education. UNESCO is well positioned to meet these challenges as reflected in UNESCO’s  Medium-Term Strategy.
9.3 First, with respect to multilateralism, we are all acutely aware that in recent years the unilateral actions by  certain powers have created crises in the international order, undermining the efficacy of international institutions,  including UNESCO. We have also seen new claims for economic power, privilege, and penetration into global markets,  cloaked in the guise of multilateral negotiations, which seek to undermine the truly multilateral instruments and  institutions of the United Nations.
9.4 As a matter of urgent global concern, therefore, Mr President, we must find ways and means of revitalizing  real multilateralism in international relations. We must reverse the tide, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
170  Kofi Annan, has argued, where, and I quote, “the very relevance of current multilateral rules and institutions has come  into question and where the vision of global solidarity and collective security rooted in the Charter of the United  Nations is being undermined”. So we need to reaffirm, in Nelson Mandela’s phrase, the “solidarity of peace-loving  nations”.
9.5 Second, we recognize in South Africa that it is essential to find new and creative ways to engage the  multiplicity of linguistic, cultural, and religious identities within our country and the larger global community. Under  apartheid these distinctions were used as an instrument of coercion and subordination. We revel in the diversity of our  society in South Africa. Locally and globally, we all deal with educational challenges posed by racism, sexism,  xenophobia and intolerance, and the profound ignorance entrenched by the certainties of unilateral power.
9.6 So how do we then move, Mr President, from ignorance to understanding, from intolerance to tolerance, and  from mere tolerance to informed respect for difference and diversity? We in South Africa have learned, for example,  that religion should not be a source of division and tension. Recently I launched South Africa’s policy for religion and  education. The policy sets out guidelines for religion education, which is defined as teaching and learning about religion,  religions and religious diversity in South Africa and the world, and provides for religion education to be part of the  curriculum for all grades in the schools. In keeping with the ongoing work on religion and education under the auspices  of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, our policy distinguishes between the teaching of religion,  which is the responsibility of the home, family and religious community, and teaching about religion and religions,  which is the responsibility of all the public schools.
9.7 So our policy also responds to UNESCO’s call to implement the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.  I myself believe – but I do not think we should waste time drafting a convention which would secure increased  subscription to the Declaration – in facilitating dialogue among cultures, religions, and world views in ways that  promote mutual human recognition. We have found that those who purvey the false idea of an inevitable “clash of  civilizations” only promote an ideology of the graveyard. Choosing life, we embrace UNESCO’s goal of valuing our  heritage, acknowledging our different experiences, and learning to work together to create a common future that affirms  both our diversity and our unity.
9.8 So education is indispensable for learning to live with each other. Education systems are linked to the type of  society we wish to build. To this end the South African Values in Education Initiative, a major project, is based on the  premise that not all values can possibly be determined by the market. Human values, such as equality, dignity, integrity  and social honour, cannot be commodified in a market-based economy. These values cannot be bought; they are not for  sale; but we are convinced that they can be learned, nurtured and transmitted.
9.9 This leads me to my third point, the importance of resisting the commercialization, or commodification, of  education. In this forum, I do not need to go into detailed arguments on the importance of regarding education as a  fundamental public good. However, these arguments will need to be marshalled, and marshalled again, in response to  current assumptions within the World Trade Organization (WTO) that have the potential to turn education into a global  commodity. As you know, WTO has identified “barriers” to global trade in education, which it assimilates to a service.  But these “barriers” are actually the pillars of any public education system. They are only “barriers” to the extent that  they might limit the scope of private entrepreneurial providers to compete for students in a so-called global supermarket  in which education has been thoroughly commodified and divorced from any national values and interests and means in  the economic, social or cultural development of people. Item 5.17 of UNESCO’s present agenda and the draft resolution  submitted by Norway attempt to deal with the issue, but in a rather broad and incomplete way. Let me make it quite  clear that South Africa will not respond to any invitation to open our so-called market in higher education and training.  Education is UNESCO’s business, not the World Trade Organization’s business.
9.10 The global phenomenon that presupposes interdependence among the peoples of the world is contrary to the  sickening ethnic wars, genocides, denial of self-determination and recourse to war and terrorism of the current period,  which tell a different story, one which the famous Irish poet, W.B. Yeats, in his poem, “The Second Coming”,  encapsulated in the lines: “… what rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?”
9.11 So we must stop the rough beasts. UNESCO cannot afford to be complacent in the process; it cannot claim  the comfort of neutrality if it is to remain true to its original mission of mobilizing the intellectual, scientific and cultural  power of the international community to advance respect for universal human liberty and justice. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished Minister of Education of South Africa and congratulations for the bold  initiatives you have taken in your country. I now invite the Minister of Education, Science and Technology of Kenya to  the rostrum.
11.1 Mr SAITOTI (Kenya):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates,  allow me to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to the presidency of the General Conference of UNESCO  at its 32nd session. Please accept the assurances of our highest esteem and our best wishes for a successful Conference.
11.2 Mr President, many problems in the world today call for unity of purpose and moral and ethical solidarity in  the search for solutions for the benefit of humankind. I therefore join other delegates in welcoming the United States of  America back to the UNESCO family. We look forward to the United States of America providing inspiration as a  leading democracy with enormous economic resources. We also welcome Timor-Leste as the newest Member State of  UNESCO.
11.3 Mr President, at the threshold of this millennium, the world was full of optimism and hope that the social  divide between North and South would be substantially narrowed. It was gratifying that the world community, through  various fora, sought to debate crucial challenges that face the world’s citizens. These fora included the United Nations  Millennium Summit of 2000, the various World Summits on Sustainable Development and the United Nations-hosted  International Conference on Financing for Development held in Mexico, among others.
11.4 While these fora have succeeded in pinpointing what ails the majority of the world’s developing nations and  their citizens, concrete tangible action that can really assist developing nations to move forward socially and  economically have yet to materialize. In particular, the promise of progress that many thought would result from  globalization has not been realized in developing countries. While globalization was intended to accelerate development,  it has unfortunately resulted in economic stagnation and recession in some of the economies of the developing countries.
11.5 Today, however, some developing countries are taking responsibility for the economic advancement of their  citizens. In Africa, this has resulted in various regional economic sub-groupings, which seek to enhance regional trade  as well as a common approach to other issues. In this respect, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD)  is a home-grown initiative intended to put African ideas, hopes and goals at the centre of African development  strategies. I would like to commend the Director-General for his support for the NEPAD initiative through UNESCO  programmes.
11.6 Mr President, I am happy to observe that UNESCO has been at the forefront, not only in reviewing the  problems that beset developing countries, but also in seeking to work with these nations as an equal partner by  providing technical assistance, mobilizing resources and articulating the needs of these nations with other organizations.  These efforts should continue, for we do believe that meaningful progress is that which advances the lives of the  majority of the world’s peoples.
11.7 Mr President, we also commend UNESCO for its concern and efforts to reduce the digital divide, so that  developing countries can benefit from the tremendous advantages of information technology. We would like to  encourage these efforts, since the majority of the world’s populations still lack access to information and  communication technologies (ICTs) due to high costs and lack of connectivity. In an effort to provide access to  information technology, Kenya has introduced computer studies at secondary and tertiary levels of education. We are  also in the process of drawing up an information and communication policy. But like most countries, we require  additional resources as well as technical assistance in order to make tangible progress and empower a greater proportion  of our people with ICT skills and knowledge.
11.8 Kenya also recognizes the crucial role of science and technology in advancing sustainable development,  alleviation of poverty and promotion of economic growth. Kenya therefore supports the need for capacity-building in  the basic sciences.
11.9 Mr President, in December 2002 Kenyans elected a new government, which has committed itself to  improving the lives of its people, through strengthening domestic governance, and the active pursuit of social and  economic development. In order to enhance access, the government has introduced free primary education to achieve  lifelong education for all. This was done in the firm belief that education is the prime mover for the social  transformation of our people, as well as a catalyst for social cohesion which in turn is crucial for peace. Since this bold  initiative in January 2003, an extra 1.2 million children have so far reported to school, bringing the total primary pupil  enrolment to 7.2 million.
11.10 This rapid growth has brought with it immense challenges in the provision of resources such as additional  teachers, teaching materials and physical facilities. This has resulted in a substantial increase in our education budget.  We are, however, grateful for the support received from our development partners towards this initiative. Mr President,  we have also instituted a participatory approach to planning and decision-making in education, which includes civil  society and other stakeholders. In this regard, a national forum for education is being planned, to be held later this year,  in order for Kenyans to be able to debate on what kind of education they want, and for what purpose.
11.11 Mr President, let me conclude my remarks by commending UNESCO for its efforts in working with African  nations, which are now focusing more than ever before on the need for peace and sustainable development for their  people. There is now renewed effort for conflict resolution, and many countries are choosing the path of democratic  governance. This new environment for the conduct of our affairs must be nurtured, as it is the only sure path towards  the economic empowerment of our people. I do thank you very much indeed.
12. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank the honourable Minister of Education, Science and Technology of Kenya, for keeping  his speech within the time frame, and commend him for the excellent work he is doing for his country. It is now my  privilege to invite the honourable Minister of Human Resource Development, Education and Cultural Affairs of Sri  Lanka to please come to the rostrum.
13.1 Mr KODITUWAKKU (Sri Lanka):  Mr President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, I wish to begin by offering my warm congratulations to the President of the General  Conference, Professor Michael Omolewa. We are indeed fortunate to be guided by his vast experience and wisdom ,  and we wish him every success. I would also like to thank the outgoing President, Mr Jalali, who has served his term in  an exemplary manner. I must applaud the Director-General and the UNESCO Secretariat for increasing the impact and  relevance of UNESCO from a global perspective. May I also welcome the return of the United States of America and  the admission of Timor-Leste to UNESCO.
13.2 Sri Lanka in the recent past has been successful in taking positive steps in its effort to regain the country for  its own people. We are optimistic about preventing a resumption of the conflict which devastated Sri Lanka for two  decades up until the end of 2001. The support of the international community for the peace process has helped  substantially to restore peace in the country and revive the economy. We acknowledge the assistance with great  appreciation.
13.3 Over the years, Sri Lanka has been a proud beneficiary of UNESCO in all its fields of competence. Whilst  Sri Lanka endorses UNESCO’s current strategic focus, I wish to share certain thoughts with this august assembly which  should be taken into account in order to optimize the relevance of UNESCO to its Member States.
13.4 Let me conceptualize my thoughts as follows. Over the past few centuries, the world has progressed through  various “ages” up to the present age of information and knowledge. The advances in science and technology that have  driven this transition have triggered and speeded up a process of globalization and the emergence of a borderless world.  Even in this borderless world, despite the leapfrogging potential of these advances, a majority of the human race  continues to live in misery, deprived of basic needs. This remark should not be misconstrued as an attempt to deny or  discount the positive impact of such significant advances in absolute terms. And yet the disadvantaged always seem to  be inescapably trapped on the wrong side of various divides, the latest being the digital divide.
13.5 The vast majority of Member States on the weaker side of the divide spring from glorious civilizations. They  had their own systems of governance, their own economy, culture and values, and their own principles of social equity  and progress. In many respects, these systems performed well, struck a harmonious balance in the societies and  ecological environments concerned and coped with the increasing demands upon them. It was then that models of  governance conceived and shaped in the western world were introduced into these countries, where the deprived  populations now live.
13.6 The adoption of such models was more an imposition from outside with the support of an elitist local  leadership than a voluntary acceptance by the majority or true intelligentsia of such societies. It constituted a major  distortion which consigned to oblivion the indigenous models of such countries. The indigenous models did not have  the opportunity to improve or blossom as a result of scientific and technological advances, as happened in the West later.  It is striking and undeniable that a majority of the deprived live in countries whose systems of governance and  approaches to life have been replaced by foreign models.
13.7 My aim is not to suggest that such countries should revert to the past or swim against the tide. Advances in  science, technology and communications, the current process of globalization and the market-driven principles of  economics should be properly harnessed for the benefit of the majority who are still deprived. But I believe that this  cannot be achieved unless the systems of international cooperation through multilateral organizations such as UNESCO  take more vigorous action. It is therefore vital to identify the priorities to be addressed in each region and in each  country. In Sri Lanka, for example, while we have made significant progress toward the goal of education for all since  the introduction of free education in 1945, there are other issues in education itself that need to be addressed. Our  current priority is to improve the quality of secondary education, placing more emphasis on the bilingual option, which  includes use of the mother tongue and English as mediums for the teaching of selected subjects and effective use of  ICTs in education. A more meaningful expansion of tertiary education has become absolutely essential since there is a  serious shortage of higher education opportunities for those who are eligible for admission to university. As a result of  the conflict in Sri Lanka and the commitment to find a negotiated political settlement by both parties, peace education at  all levels has become a vital necessity. In fact the Director-General of UNESCO has already extended his assistance in  this regard by launching the “Teacher’s Guide to Peace Education” in the Parliament of Sri Lanka in 2002. Here I am  reminded of the Constitution of UNESCO, which begins with the words “Since wars begin in the minds of men it is in  the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. That is why peace education is a priority in Sri Lanka.
13.8 Finally, I believe that UNESCO, which already has a deep impact on people through its work in education,  science, culture and communication, touching the very process through which the human person is shaped, is ideally  placed to support this initiative, which would promote empowerment and the goals of universal respect for justice and  fundamental freedoms in keeping with the ideals of the United Nations. Thank you.
14. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, and congratulations on the work you are doing for your country.  Now it is my privilege to invite the honourable Minister of Higher Education and Research of Togo to the rostrum.
15.1 M. AGBA (Togo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Honorables délégués, Mesdames et  Messieurs, je voudrais tout d’abord vous présenter, Monsieur Omolewa, les chaleureuses félicitations de la délégation  togolaise pour votre brillante élection à la présidence de notre présente session, et vous souhaiter plein succès dans  l’accomplissement de votre mandat. Je voudrais ensuite féliciter et remercier votre prédécesseur, M. Ahmad Jalali, de la  République islamique d’Iran, pour sa précieuse contribution à la consolidation des nobles objectifs de notre  Organisation. Que Mme Aziza Bennani, présidente du Conseil exécutif, et l’ensemble des membres du Conseil  reçoivent également toutes nos félicitations pour la qualité du travail accompli tout au long de l’exercice biennal qui  s’achève.
15.2 Le Gouvernement togolais, par ma voix, rend aussi un hommage particulier et mérité au Directeur général de  l’UNESCO, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, pour les nombreuses initiatives qu’il a prises, depuis déjà quatre ans, en vue de  renforcer la crédibilité et l’efficacité de notre Organisation. Le peuple togolais a déjà eu l’occasion d’apprécier sa  rigueur et sa perspicacité lors de la visite officielle qu’il a effectuée au Togo du 29 au 30 avril 2000, six mois après son  élection, à l’invitation du Chef de l’État. L’histoire retiendra, nous en sommes persuadés, les innovations que le  Directeur général a su impulser, avec clairvoyance et détermination, en vue de mieux maîtriser la politique de  décentralisation de l’Organisation et d’assurer une gestion plus rigoureuse de ses ressources, tout en préservant notre  objectif : maintenir la paix et la sécurité dans le monde par l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication.
15.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, cette quête permanente a été réaffirmée dans la Stratégie à  moyen terme de l’UNESCO pour 2002-2007. L’éducation reste un droit fondamental de l’être humain. Elle apporte aux  enfants, aux jeunes et aux adultes la capacité de réfléchir et de mener une vie meilleure. Elle brise le cycle de la  pauvreté et constitue l’une des clés du développement économique et social. Le Cadre d’action de Dakar conforte cette  vision de l’interdépendance de l’éducation et de la lutte contre la pauvreté, en affirmant que le progrès de l’éducation  pour tous est une condition nécessaire à la réalisation des objectifs internationaux en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté,  et un élément essentiel pour la réduction des inégalités entre les pays et au sein des sociétés.
15.4 L’amélioration des conditions de vie des différentes couches sociales des vaillantes populations togolaises a  toujours été au centre des préoccupations du gouvernement. Malgré les résultats satisfaisants enregistrés dans les années
70 dans le cadre des différents plans quinquennaux jusqu’à l’élaboration récente du Document de stratégie pour la  réduction de la pauvreté (DSRP), force est de noter que, depuis les années 90, la pauvreté gagne du terrain, notamment  parmi les couches les plus vulnérables. Ces couches sont particulièrement exposées aux conséquences de la suspension  de l’aide qu’une partie de nos partenaires continue à infliger au Togo. Néanmoins, nous reportons nous aussi nos  espoirs sur le NEPAD, cette nouvelle vision politique du développement en Afrique, qui entend consacrer une
174  démarche d’appropriation par l’Afrique de son propre développement. Ma délégation ne peut que se réjouir du fait que  l’UNESCO ait pris en compte dans son Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005 les nobles objectifs de ce  Nouveau partenariat pour le développement de l’Afrique, en vue d’accompagner le continent africain dans sa lutte  contre la pauvreté et de l’intégrer pleinement dans l’économie mondiale.
15.5 Monsieur le Président, le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005 qui fait l’objet du document
32 C/5 soumis à l’approbation de la Conférence générale contient des propositions riches, variées et constructives du  fait des orientations et des objectifs qui y sont énoncés. Les actions envisagées à travers les cinq grands programmes et  les projets intersectoriels font ressortir la problématique du développement et de la paix et ouvrent au seuil du  XXIe siècle des perspectives d’épanouissement du genre humain dans les sphères intellectuelle, culturelle, scientifique  et technologique.
15.6 Le Cadre d’action de Dakar a réaffirmé la vision exprimée à Jomtien en 1990, dans la Déclaration mondiale  sur l’éducation pour tous. Le Plan d’action pour l’EPT 2002-2005 que le Togo s’apprête à adopter, conformément aux  indications de l’UNESCO, s’inscrit dans la mise en œuvre des six objectifs du Cadre d’action de Dakar, en mettant plus  particulièrement l’accent sur la généralisation de l’enseignement primaire, c’est-à-dire en faisant « en sorte que, d’ici  à 2015, tous les enfants, en particulier les filles, les enfants en difficulté et ceux qui appartiennent à des minorités  ethniques, aient la possibilité d’accéder à un enseignement primaire gratuit de qualité ».
15.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans le cadre de la campagne mondiale pour l’Éducation pour tous lancée le
9 avril dernier, le Togo a célébré cette année du 30 avril au 6 mai, la Semaine mondiale de l’Éducation pour tous 2003  sur le thème « Relancer les efforts pour éliminer les disparités sexuelles d’ici à 2005 et réaliser une scolarisation  universelle d’ici à 2015 ». En effet, des insuffisances reconnues du système éducatif togolais empêchent aujourd’hui  encore un grand nombre de citoyens d’accéder à l’instruction et à une qualification professionnelle.
15.8 La résolution A/RES/56/116 par laquelle l’Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, à sa 56e session, a  proclamé la période 2003-2012 « Décennie des Nations Unies pour l’alphabétisation », est une heureuse initiative dont  nous nous sommes vivement félicités, car elle vient encourager et soutenir les efforts que le gouvernement, avec l’appui  de ses partenaires, déploie depuis 1971 dans le cadre de ses divers programmes d’alphabétisation fonctionnelle pour  combattre l’analphabétisme et l’illettrisme. Le lancement officiel de cette décennie dans notre pays, le 12 juin 2003,  ponctué, sous l’égide d’un comité interministériel, de manifestations diverses dont le point culminant fut la célébration,  le 8 septembre dernier, de la Journée internationale de l’alphabétisation, en est un témoignage éloquent.
15.9 Monsieur le Directeur général, à la précarité sociale, à l’exclusion et à l’abus des drogues, la fin du  XXe siècle aura vu s’ajouter l’effroyable pandémie de sida. La menace que celle-ci fait peser sur la réalisation des  objectifs de l’éducation pour tous et, au-delà, sur le développement en général, en particulier dans l’Afrique  subsaharienne, représente un formidable défi. Le Forum de Dakar a bien compris à quel point le sida était un puissant  facteur d’inégalité, empêchant un peu plus encore des populations déjà économiquement démunies d’accéder à  l’éducation, et décimant à la fois le corps enseignant, des adultes dans la force de l’âge et une jeunesse active et  précieuse pour le développement de nos pays. L’éducation sanitaire, l’éducation préventive contre le sida et la lutte  contre l’abus des drogues constituent des programmes spécifiques sur lesquels notre système éducatif met un accent  particulier, notamment dans le cadre de l’élaboration du Plan d’action national pour l’EPT 2002-2015.
15.10 La délégation togolaise voudrait enfin insister sur la nécessité d’adopter dès la présente session le projet de  convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, instrument qui, une fois en vigueur,  constituera sans nul doute une étape majeure vers l’avènement d’une civilisation universelle.
15.11 Monsieur le Président, Honorables délégués, mon pays a fait de la paix et de la sécurité des valeurs cardinales  de sa politique de développement. Il adhère donc pleinement aux objectifs assignés à la Décennie internationale de la  promotion d’une culture de la non-violence et de la paix au profit des enfants du monde (2001-2010). Nous sommes  convaincus que les valeurs qu’incarne la culture de la paix contribuent à l’élimination de la pauvreté et à la réduction  des inégalités, en nous encourageant à œuvrer pour la promotion d’un développement durable et le respect des droits de  l’homme et de la démocratie, tout en préservant la diversité culturelle et l’environnement. Je souhaite plein succès à nos  travaux. Je vous remercie.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank the honourable Minister of Higher Education and Research of Togo for his contribution,  and to congratulate him on the work he is doing. I will shortly call the next speaker, but I just want to inform you that  while she is talking, the honourable Minister of Education of The Gambia, Madam Ann Therese Ndong-Jatta, is going  to preside over the meeting. Our next speaker is the honourable Minister of Education of Denmark. Madam, you have  the floor.
17.1 Ms TØRNŒS (Denmark):1  Mr President of the General Conference, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate you, Mr Omolewa, on your election to the high  office of President of the General Conference at its 32nd session. I also wish to congratulate the United States of  America on their return to UNESCO, thereby restoring the universality of the Organization. We look forward to  cooperating with you at UNESCO.  (Ms Ndong-Jatta, Gambia, takes the Chair)
17.2 Mr Director-General, you have taken up the challenges posed by globalization and the rapid changes taking  place in the world. You have done this inter alia by undertaking the thorough reform of UNESCO’s administration and  of the working methods of its governing bodies. We welcome the Director-General’s proposals for improving the  functioning of the three organs of our Organization – the General Conference, the Executive Board and the Secretariat –  but Denmark and the other Nordic countries would like to see further reform. We have therefore tabled a draft  resolution aiming at stimulating and possibly speeding up the reform process.
17.3 Under its Constitution, UNESCO’s mission is basically an ethical one. It concerns fundamental human  values. UNESCO is the main world forum for discussing how we can contribute to peace and security by promoting  these values. My government is therefore pleased to note that this session of the General Conference is devoted to a  very high degree to normative work.
17.4 Madam President, I shall now briefly present my government’s viewpoint on the many different normative  instruments. The programme commission on education will deal with the question concerning the desirability of  adopting a UNESCO convention on anti-doping in sport. As you will recall, the World Anti-Doping Agency met in  Copenhagen in March 2003, where the main sports organizations, and 80 governments, approved the World Anti- Doping Code. Since then the Danish Government has contributed both financially and otherwise towards the first draft  of this convention. We think it is important that the fight against doping gets a much stronger platform. We will  therefore continue our efforts and our support in this field so that an efficient convention may be adopted by the General  Conference at its 33rd session in 2005.
17.5 The science commission will deal with the declaration on human genetic data. We welcome this initiative to  ensure the respect of human dignity and fundamental rights. The aim of the declaration is clear: to set out principles and  to form the basis for guidelines of good practices. We have some suggestions to further improve the already very fine  text.
17.6 Madam President, I now come to the instruments dealing with different aspects of culture. First, the  declaration on acts constituting a crime against the common heritage of mankind, which we regard as a supplement to  the existing international instruments, especially the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in  the Event of Armed Conflict. We are not convinced, however, that this declaration is necessary and does not overlap  with other instruments. We look forward to discussing the scope and relevance of the declaration during this session of  the General Conference.
17.7 Madam President, regarding the very important preliminary draft convention on intangible cultural heritage,  the Danish Government supports the international efforts to address this field of cultural heritage. We would like to  congratulate UNESCO on all its efforts that have resulted in this preliminary draft convention, now considerably  improved. My country has, however – as a matter of principle – some problems with the financing of the convention,  which in the draft is based on compulsory contributions. I would like to stress that our concerns here are of a general  nature, not specific for this draft convention.
17.8 Also in the field of culture, the General Conference will, at this session take a decision on the preparation of a  convention on cultural diversity. The Danish Government believes strongly that cultural diversity should be respected,  promoted and developed. A convention might be the right way to obtain this goal. We would, however, recommend that  a possible convention should only be promoted, if it is judged to be at the same time necessary, understandable and  operational. We would insist, though, that we should all work for a very concise definition of the scope of such an  instrument and we would also insist that a future convention should fully respect already accepted international  agreements in this field.
1  The speaker provided the Secretariat with the full text of her statement which, with the authorization of the President, is reproduced in full in  an annex to this verbatim record.
17.9 Madam President, the programme commission on communication and information will discuss the proposed  charter on digital heritage. The Danish Government finds this initiative praiseworthy, but we find the text before us in  need of further clarification and elaboration. Another instrument to be discussed in this commission is the  recommendation on multilingualism and access to cyberspace. As you may recall, Denmark was among the countries  that had strong reservations about the text that was presented to the General Conference at its 31st session in 2001. I am  happy to state that we find the revised text now before us much better and clearer, but we still have some reservations.
17.10 As regards follow-up to earlier norms I wish to say a few words about the follow-up to the Dakar Framework  for Action in the field of Education for All (EFA). In its role as coordinating agency for international EFA follow-up,  UNESCO has worked actively to promote an international dialogue on the priorities in this process and to monitor the  process. We look forward to seeing the effect of EFA programmes at country level. In cooperation with UNESCO, the  Nordic Countries are in the process of setting up an agreement on further joint extrabudgetary support to UNESCO’s  work with EFA.
17.11 Madam President, please allow me some comments on what is after all the main document of the General  Conference, namely the Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005. We find the document an improvement compared  with former programme and budget documents. It is better focused, has clear-stated objectives and shows better  cohesion with the six-year Medium-Term Strategy adopted in 2001. In one field, however, namely that of  communication, we would have wished for better correspondence between the Programme and the Medium-Term  Strategy. For our government, freedom of expression should be the overriding principle and first priority in the world of  communication. Denmark and other Nordic countries have therefore tabled a draft resolution aiming at harmonizing the  Programme to a greater extent with the priorities expressed in the current Medium-Term Strategy.
17.12 Madam President, in 2005 my country celebrates the 200th anniversary of the great Danish storyteller and  author, Hans Christian Andersen. Hans Christian Andersen is known and loved all over the world for his fairy tales. His  stories enhance universal human values and appeal to both children and adults. I have only to mention a few of his titles,  such as “The Ugly Duckling”, “The Nightingale” or The Emperor’s New Clothes” to illustrate my point. We believe  that Hans Christian Andersen, through his work, illustrates that fundamental human values are shared by the diversity of  cultures and civilizations all over the world Therefore, we wish to share Andersen with you, and we are very happy to  see that he has been included in the list of anniversaries. Thank you very much.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister of Education of Denmark. We note your concerns, and we  congratulate you on your position, and your support for UNESCO. Before I call the next speaker, I would like to salute  all of you, the Director-General and my distinguished colleagues on the rostrum. I would also like to congratulate our  elected President on being so gender-sensitive. We appreciate the sensitivity he has shown to women, as well as his  sensitivity to small States. I now call upon His Excellency, Mr Pasquale Valentini, Minister of Education, Universities  and Cultural Institutes of San Marino. You have the floor, Sir.
19.1 M. VALENTINI (Sain-Marin) :   Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est pour moi un honneur et  aussi une grande responsabilité de prendre la parole au nom de la République de Saint-Marin, pour porter le message  d’un Etat, qui, bien que petit par ses dimensions, est fier de sa tradition de liberté, de démocratie, de respect des droits  de l’homme, et entend participer à la construction du dialogue entre les nations, condition indispensable pour servir la  paix et le progrès des peuples.
19.2 Le contexte international présent, caractérisé par la menace d’une nouvelle forme de terrorisme,  particulièrement violent et étendu, fait plus que jamais apparaître l’impérieuse nécessité d’un engagement renouvelé de  toutes les nations dans le but de rechercher les moyens et les instruments d’une collaboration propre à empêcher le  recours à la violence et aux armes pour remédier aux injustices et résoudre les conflits entre État. Il apparaît  indispensable de repenser le rôle fondamental que peut et doit mener l’Organisation des Nations Unies et de retrouver  ce désir spontané de paix, d’union et de réconciliation qui en a caractérisé la naissance et l’action initiale.
19.3 Nous accueillons avec une grande satisfaction l’annonce du retour des États-Unis d’Amérique au sein de  l’UNESCO. Nous pensons, avec le Directeur général, qu’il s’agit d’un événement d’une importance historique, décisive  pour l’UNESCO, en ce qu’il lui permettra de réaffirmer son rôle et son prestige sur la scène internationale et de  développer ses programmes d’action. Nous sommes conscients qu’il y a de nombreux secteurs où les nations doivent  agir pour remédier aux difficultés auxquelles tant de populations se trouvent confrontées, au début de ce troisième  millénaire, et garantir un futur pacifique à l’humanité. Cependant, comme dans un vaste système de vases  communicants, les problèmes de la culture, de la science et de l’éducation ne sont pas indépendants des autres
177  problèmes de l’existence humaine, comme la paix et la faim. Les problèmes de la culture sont conditionnés par d’autres  dimensions de l’existence humaine, de même que celles-ci les conditionnent.
19.4 C’est pourquoi il importe aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, de réaffirmer l’engagement de l’Organisation des  Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture. Parmi les grands défis relevés par le Directeur général pour
2004-2005, nous soulignerons les suivants : premièrement, l’éducation comme chemin à parcourir pour éliminer la  pauvreté. Souligner la priorité de l’éducation signifie reconnaître que les programmes visant à éliminer la pauvreté et les  maladies endémiques ne sauraient faire abstraction de l’être humain, personne unique en son genre, mais doivent tenir  avant tout compte de ses relations fondamentales avec la famille, et ensuite avec la société. Un tel principe tend à  valoriser et à renforcer ce que les personnes ont construit, leur histoire, leur culture, leur patrimoine de vie. C’est un  point de départ fondamental, qui permet de faire comprendre à la personne sa valeur et sa dignité, et qui, par conséquent,  stimule son sens des responsabilités. Seule cette préoccupation éducative permettra à nos projets de démontrer, dans le  temps, leur efficacité et cette stabilité qui est une des conditions d’un authentique développement. Il ne s’agit pas de  proposer à nouveau des programmes parfaits, mais de promouvoir des initiatives capables d’impliquer et de mobiliser  les réalités présentes.
19.5 Deuxièmement, le respect de l’éthique des sciences et des technologies, en particulier la bioéthique. Ce  deuxième défi souligne la préoccupation suivante : les connaissances scientifiques semblent ouvrir à l’homme de  nouvelles possibilités d’intervention dans les secteurs des sciences, de la nature et de la médecine. Conduites et utilisées  dans la méconnaissance des impératifs éthiques, ces recherches et ces découvertes peuvent toutefois se retourner contre  l’homme lui-même, menaçant la dignité même de son existence et son environnement naturel. L’engagement de  l’UNESCO n’a donc rien perdu de sa valeur et aucun effort ne doit être ménagé pour que la dignité de chaque homme  vivant sur la terre soit respectée. Nous sommes tous conscients que c’est la culture qui est la caractéristique de l’être  humain et c’est la culture qui crée le lien entre les hommes. Tout en formant des vœux pour la réalisation du programme
2004-2005, nous confirmons que la République de Saint-Marin tient à œuvrer pour la protection et l’affirmation de la  culture, fondement même d’un monde juste pour l’homme. Je vous remercie.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, honourable Minister from San Marino, for a very focused presentation. I now invite  His Excellency Mr Mario Michel, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Education, Human Resource Development,  Youth and Sports of Saint Lucia. You have the floor, Sir.
21.1 Mr MICHEL (Saint Lucia):  Thank you, Madam President. Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished  representatives, esteemed delegates, permit me at the outset to extend the sincere congratulations of my delegation and  my country to the Ambassador of Nigeria on his election to the presidency of this vital platform of international  dialogue and understanding. UNESCO has increasingly become a space characterized by tolerance, the free expression  of divergent ideas and the convergence of will, and Saint Lucia takes particular pleasure in once again participating in  the biennial General Conference.
21.2 We meet at a time when our world and civilization are faced with more and not less crisis. On the one hand,  the evil of terrorism – the natural progeny of extremism – has engendered fear, cultivated a reactive intolerance, and  fragmented understanding across the fabric of all civilizations. A new, simplistic bipolarism is now asserting itself,  reducing the complex tensions of our world to absolute shades of black or white, good or evil, and we face the real  danger of the deepening of the divide of intolerance between cultures, geographies and religions. Emerging from recent  events in the Middle East is a strong tendency towards unilateralism in the conduct of international affairs that elevates  dictation beyond dialogue and barriers ahead of bridges.
21.3 In the face of this new international conjuncture, UNESCO has an even more urgent destiny to fulfil. Now  more than ever, the time-tested values articulated by the founding nations of UNESCO need to be upheld and promoted.  While being resolute in the fight against extremism, we must also present as a model to the world the civilizing impact  of tolerance and understanding, and we must do so in an inclusive embrace that encircles all who subscribe to the  dreams of a better and greater humanity. UNESCO and the rest of the United Nations system have faced the test of their  relevance to our world, and the enduring challenge will be whether they will continue to be the vital space within which  the positions of all nations can be respectfully articulated and global consensus forged, or whether they will allow  themselves to become a mechanism of convenience to a singular insistence.
21.4 Madam President, Saint Lucia joins the rest of the world community in welcoming the United States of  America back to this community of nations. We trust that the return of this great nation is indicative of its recognition of  the importance of operating in concert with the other nations of the world and that its presence will immeasurably  strengthen the defences of peace that we are obligated to construct. We join also in welcoming with admiration the
178  newly independent people of Timor-Leste who by their resilience and courage have earned the right to a free voice and  a fraternal seat at this table.
21.5 Madam President, allow me to quickly outline some major concerns that Saint Lucia has with the new  priorities outlined in the recent address of the Director-General to the Executive Board and to this General Conference.
21.6 In the first instance we have noted the emphasis being placed on reconstruction in post-conflict situations.  This represents a fundamental paradigm shift from what UNESCO has always represented and an elemental departure  of this nature ought to be subject to some debate by Member States. UNESCO has always been about preventing wars,  and it would be a dangerous development for us to reverse this positive paradigm to now make the Organization focus  on cleaning up after wars wilfully waged. If anything, we must deepen our resolve in strengthening the defences for  peace in the minds of men rather than shoring the fragments of their wars against our common ruin.
21.7 The other major concern is about how UNESCO treats its budgetary and so-called extrabudgetary resources.  We support the call for UNESCO to look seriously into the Joint Inspection Unit Report requesting the governing  bodies of the United Nations system to establish some guidelines in order to have more control over extrabudgetary  funds. Extrabudgetary funds should be more integrated into the programme and budget of the Organization.
21.8 In that same spirit, Madam President, we must ensure that the greater proportion of the resources available to  the Organization is spent directly on programmed field activities and on organizational as opposed to donor priorities of  benefit to the widest grouping of countries rather than on the maintenance of bureaucracy. We should also ensure that  the programmes of UNESCO remain equally available to all Member States and are not tailored for specific countries at  the expense of others in need.
21.9 Allow me – with the honesty of purpose and the frankness of posture for which my country has become  known within this family – to express my deep concern about the erosion of the honest broker role for UNESCO by our  own actions and inaction. I believe that what happened earlier this week with the resolution on the admission of  Palestine to this august body was regrettable. My delegation was astounded by the inattention shown to the position  expressed by the delegation of South Africa and the rushed deferral of Palestine’s admission. We do ourselves no credit  when open debate is suppressed in this manner, and we must at all times be guided by the principle that, as long as we  exclude any party from entering this house of dialogue and intercultural understanding, we diminish the chances for  peace.
21.10 Madam President, the hopes for peace and for prosperity fostered by the new century have rapidly evaporated  in the face of extremism, fanaticism, intolerance of all stripes and monochromatic paradigms. Today more than ever, the  dream of UNESCO as a major bulwark for peace and understanding among the peoples and cultures of the world is  relevant and necessary. It is our historical responsibility to sustain, deepen and promulgate the vision that a world of  tolerance, respect for diversity and genuine dialogue is possible.
21.11 Sent Lisi kai fe tout sa e pe pou wealize weve sala – this is translated from Saint Lucia’s Creole language, and  means that Saint Lucia will do all that it can and should do towards the realization of this dream. And our fervent wish  is that this 32nd session of the General Conference will provide the oasis, so sorely needed by the international  community of nations, wherein the optimism of the will can prevail despite the pessimism of the spirit. Je vous remercie  de votre attention.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Minister. It is good to hear voices from the small States. We note your concern and  applaud your wisdom. May I now call Her Excellency Ms Otilia Lux de Cotí, Minister of Culture and Sports of  Guatemala.
(23.1) Ms LUX DE COTÍ (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I  wish to begin by invoking Almighty God and thanking him for making it possible to hold this conference, bringing  together all the peoples, nations, languages and cultures of this wonderful planet we inhabit. Our starting-point was one  of extreme grief, remembering the supreme sacrifice of the United Nations representative in Baghdad, Mr Sergio Vieira  de Mello. May his spilt blood be our guiding star, lighting for us the path of peace and respect for life as a supreme value  of human rights.
(23.2) I represent Guatemala, with its age-old history: I am a true and proud descendant of the Mayan civilization.  On behalf of our country, I congratulate Mr Omolewa on his election as President of the General Conference and the  Director-General for his efforts on behalf of development and peace. I am glad to see that the world today is more  accessible as a result of the profound changes resulting from technology, information and globalization. The new  communication media are creating closer links between all cultures, ethnic groups and languages, thereby enabling us to  understand one another better. Naturally, this cultural phenomenon of our time presents not only advantages but also  challenges, this being the logical consequence of any human activity.
(23.3) Taking as its frame of reference the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural  Policies for Development, held in 1998 in Stockholm, our government framed innovative cultural and sporting policies,  renewing in the process old state structures and opening up new spheres of civic participation, enabling women and men  to work together on formulating integral and sustainable human development policies, programmes, plans and projects  focused mainly on human rights, ethnic identity, linguistic diversity, the physical and tangible cultural heritage and  respect for the biodiversity of Guatemala. These new cultural policies in Guatemala are also based on the Peace  Agreements that put an end to a 36-year-long civil war and, as our President said in a recent speech to the United Nations  General Assembly, facilitated democratization and constituted a blueprint for the radical renewal of harmonious living  among all Guatemalans.
(23.4) We believe that we have come to an agreement, in keeping with UNESCO’s guidelines, on a specifically  Guatemalan model of dialogue, enabling great efforts to be made to foster dialogue among cultures, in particular among  all Guatemalans, with the sound proposition of living peacefully together in harmony. This undertaking forms part of the  effort to construct a new society that, taking account of a past marked by discrimination, exclusion and confrontation, sets  out to cultivate an image of itself grounded in peace, in cultural, ethnic and linguistic diversity, in its Mayan, Afro- Caribbean and Western roots and expressions, in its natural wealth, in its geopolitical reality and in its spirit of solidarity  with other cultures. In this context, we declare ourselves in favour of the recognition of the rights claimed by all cultures,  the rich fund of freedom and creativity that characterizes human beings as a whole, who have their roots in diversity and  in the rights of expression and belief.
(23.5)  With regard to education, our government is grateful for UNESCO’s support, and, taking account of the  Dakar recommendations and Framework for Action, we have made significant progress in the realm of educational  provision, curriculum reform and the professionalization and reform of education; likewise in intercultural and bilingual  education based on the indigenous languages of the country and on literacy programmes. Efforts are also being made to  support the non-formal education process and education for peace and democracy. Personally, I consider that education is  the best ally of peace. Concerning science and technology, advances in these fields of human knowledge are undeniable;  however, all the nations of the world, especially the strongest and richest, must show solidarity with the weak, poor  nations. Ancestral and original knowledge, the science and technology of the ancient world, to be found especially among  the indigenous peoples, should not only be preserved but must also be respected and supported, for therein lies a key  element in the salvation of humanity and an undeniable contribution to the success of strategies for the eradication of  poverty.
(23.6) In a global world, cooperation and equity among nations are essential. Advanced science and technology  should be placed in the service of all, in particular the disadvantaged nations. Everything depends on the political  goodwill of the leaders of the developed nations. The world is our home, the earth is our homeland. I would suggest  strengthening UNESCO’s programmes aimed at protecting the environment, promoting preventive education against the  threat of HIV/AIDS, rescuing traditional knowledge and, at the same time, facilitating access by the least developed  countries, children, young people, women and the indigenous population to scientific advances, particularly those related  to health, information and identity-preserving development, thereby constructing a genuine knowledge- and  development-based society. The world and the earth belong to the generation that come after us, especially to youth,  which is the lifeblood of human existence. It is a cultural obligation to bequeath to our children a better world and an  inhabitable earth. It is a duty to leave them the inheritance of a culture of peace, a safer world. We retain the hope that  good will triumph over evil. We preserve the illusion that life will prevail over death. We still hold to the belief that light  will dispel darkness. We are grateful for the presence and support that Guatemala has received from UNESCO; this  unconditional support has been a splendid contribution to improving the rights and the participation of the women and
181  men of Guatemala, including in particular the presence of civil society organizations and indigenous peoples in decision- making bodies.
(23.7)  To conclude, Guatemala celebrates the return of the United States of America to UNESCO and welcomes the  forthcoming adoption of the International Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and the  future drafting of an international convention against doping in sport. It likewise supports the proposal to create a  standard-setting international instrument on cultural diversity, the draft declaration concerning the intentional destruction  of cultural heritage, the international declaration on human genetic data, and the desirability of drafting a universal  instrument on bioethics. We share the idea that discussion should begin on the draft revised recommendation on the  promotion and use of multilingualism and universal access to cyberspace, as well as the possibility of issuing a charter on  the preservation of the digital heritage. Thank you very much.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Minister. We appreciate the good work you are doing and have noted the concerns  you have expressed. I now call His Excellency Mr Bosèngkham Vongdara, Deputy Minister of Education of the Lao  People’s Democratic Republic. You have the floor, Sir.
25.1 M. VONGDARA (République démocratique populaire lao) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de ma délégation, je tiens à mon tour à féliciter chaleureusement M. Omolewa  pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale. Je voudrais également joindre ma voix à celles des  délégations qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune pour saluer le retour des États-Unis d’Amérique au sein de notre  Organisation. Ce retour est, faut-il le souligner, d’une importance historique et offre à l’UNESCO une occasion  d’affermir son rôle et son rayonnement sur la scène internationale. Je tiens à féliciter également notre voisin, le Timor- Leste, pour son admission en tant qu’État membre de notre Organisation et lui souhaiter la bienvenue.
25.2 Madame la Présidente, la 32e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO s’ouvre, comme la session  précédente, dans un climat de tension internationale. Depuis 2001, en effet, le non-respect du droit international et les  conflits régionaux débouchent sur la guerre et la loi du plus fort règne en maître. C’est dire que la paix est chaque jour  plus menacée et fragile. Notre pays, épris de paix et de stabilité internationale, n’a de cesse d’œuvrer pour mettre en  pratique les principes fondamentaux énoncés dans l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO et adhère sans réserve aux idéaux de  l’Organisation.
25.3 Au cours de l’exercice 2002-2003, la République démocratique populaire lao a fait des progrès considérables  dans le domaine de l’éducation. L’analphabétisme a sensiblement diminué. Le taux d’alphabétisation de la population  âgée de plus de 15 ans atteint aujourd’hui 70 %. En ce qui concerne la mise en œuvre du Plan d’action du Forum de  Dakar, notre pays se félicite de sa coopération avec le Bureau régional de l’UNESCO pour l’éducation en Asie et dans  le Pacifique à Bangkok aux fins de la mise à jour de son plan national.
25.4 L’éducation de la petite enfance connaît un développement notable. Quant à l’enseignement primaire, son  taux de croissance a été porté à 26 %. Le taux net de scolarisation est passé à 82,5 %. L’enseignement secondaire a  progressé à un rythme très satisfaisant. Le taux brut de scolarisation est de 52 % dans le premier cycle et de 30 % dans  le deuxième cycle. Ces dernières années, l’enseignement technique et professionnel et l’enseignement supérieur, tant  public que privé, ont fait un grand pas en avant. Le taux d’inscription s’établit à 560 pour 100.000 habitants. Afin de  réaliser ses objectifs dans différents domaines de l’éducation, notre gouvernement a décidé, au prix de gros efforts, de  consacrer 11,5 % du budget national à l’éducation et a intensifié sa coopération avec la communauté internationale.
25.5 Dans le secteur de la culture, nous voudrions exprimer notre gratitude à l’UNESCO, et en particulier au  Centre du patrimoine mondial, qui ont appuyé l’inscription du site de Vat Phou sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial. La  remise du certificat par le Directeur général, lors de sa visite officielle dans notre pays en décembre 2002, a couronné  cette inscription.
25.6 Nous voudrions souligner que la Déclaration universelle sur la diversité culturelle que la Conférence générale  a adoptée à sa 31e session n’est qu’une étape dans les efforts pour faire progresser l’action internationale en la matière.  Aussi souhaiterions-nous qu’une autre étape soit franchie par l’UNESCO et que soit élaborée une convention  internationale sur la diversité culturelle. Nous appuierons toute action allant dans ce sens. Notre pays accueille avec  satisfaction le texte de l’avant-projet de convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel qui est soumis  à l’approbation de la 32e session.
25.7 En ce qui concerne le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005, nous notons avec un grand intérêt  la priorité accordée à l’éducation pour tous et l’accent mis sur le renforcement du processus de décentralisation. Nous  constatons avec beaucoup de satisfaction les efforts faits par le Secrétariat pour intégrer dans tous les programmes les
182  besoins spécifiques des pays les moins avancés, ainsi que l’ensemble des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement.  Nous regrettons toutefois que l’action de l’UNESCO visant à tenir concrètement les engagements souscrits au Sommet  de Johannesburg et à la troisième Conférence des Nations Unies sur les pays les moins avancés ne soit pas clairement  définie.
25.8 Nous souscrivons à la proposition tendant à porter le montant du Programme de participation à 23 millions de  dollars. Ce programme est pour nous d’un secours inestimable et va nous permettre d’entreprendre diverses activités  dans les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO. C’est bien volontiers que nous appuyons les propositions du Conseil  exécutif recommandant à la Conférence générale d’approuver un plafond budgétaire de 610 millions de dollars des  États-Unis.
25.9 Madame la Présidente, si nous voulons un XXIe siècle plus harmonieux et plus solidaire, il nous faut  d’urgence trouver de nouveaux moyens de résoudre les conflits, car victoires ou défaites ne peuvent durer longtemps.  Notre monde se caractérise aujourd’hui par une interdépendance telle que la défaite d’un pays a des répercussions sur  tous les autres. Les concepts de guerre et de violence, quelles qu’en soient les justifications, semblent anachroniques.  Du reste, les vrais perdants seront les pauvres et les sans-défense, ceux qui sont innocents. Pour des millions d’hommes  et de femmes, un monde sans guerre n’est encore qu’un lointain espoir. Et la mission principale de l’UNESCO demeure  aussi actuelle et nécessaire que jamais.
25.10 Pour conclure, je voudrais, une fois encore, joindre ma voix à celles des autres délégations pour réitérer  l’appel au dialogue, à la recherche du consensus, au partage et au respect mutuel, qui sont autant de conditions d’une  authentique coopération entre les nations. Ainsi, nos efforts pour instaurer une "paix durable sur le fondement de la  solidarité intellectuelle et morale de l’humanité" seraient en bonne voie. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
26. The PRESIDENT :  Thank you very much, Your Excellency for a concise account of the good work your country is engaged in. I  now call His Excellency Mr Antonio Burity da Silva Neto, Minister of Education of Angola. You have the floor, Sir.
27.1 M. DA SILVA NETO (Angola) (Discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Distingués délégués à la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, Madame la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, permettez-moi avant toute chose, de  saluer très chaleureusement toutes les personnes présentes à cette 32e session de la Conférence générale et de joindre  ma voix à celle de tous les orateurs qui m’ont précédé à cette tribune pour féliciter M. Omolewa, au nom du  Gouvernement de la République d’Angola, de la délégation qui m’accompagne et en mon nom personnel, pour sa  brillante élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale, qui honore le continent africain. Ma gratitude va également  à Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif et au Directeur général, auquel j’adresse mes vœux de plein succès dans ses  hautes fonctions.
27.2 Madame la Présidente, Excellences, nous sommes réunis dans cette magnifique salle, en un moment où,  malheureusement, notre rêve d’un monde entièrement pacifié reste lointain, alors que la paix est la condition  indispensable à la réalisation des idéaux de notre Organisation commune, qui vise à encourager l’éducation, la science  et la technologie et à impulser le dialogue permanent entre les peuples. Il subsiste encore de nombreux foyers de  tensions et de conflits, surtout sur le continent africain, qui a le plus besoin de la paix pour libérer rapidement les pays  de l’ignorance, de la pauvreté et des grandes épidémies. C’est donc avec le plus grand plaisir, Madame la Présidente,  que je prends la parole devant cette instance pour vous dire que la République d’Angola a finalement trouvé la paix tant  souhaitée après 41 années de guerres, d’abord contre le colonialisme portugais et ensuite entre frères, guerres menées à  l’instigation d’intérêts internes et externes.
27.3 En matière d’éducation, le Ministère compétent a engagé plusieurs réformes afin de parvenir dans les plus  brefs délais à la généralisation de l’enseignement à tous les enfants et à l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement.  D’après le calendrier adopté, la mise en œuvre du nouveau système éducatif se fera en cinq étapes qui pourront se  chevaucher, à savoir : préparation, expérimentation, évaluation et correction, généralisation et évaluation globale. La  réforme que nous conduisons porte également sur les établissements d’enseignement supérieur qui seront chargés de  contribuer à l’amélioration de la qualité de l’enseignement aux différents niveaux, notamment par la recherche, afin de  favoriser les innovations et la formation du personnel enseignant et non enseignant et de répondre ainsi à la demande de  développement de l’éducation. La qualité de l’éducation a toujours été une priorité pour l’UNESCO et ses États  membres. Aujourd’hui, plus que jamais, les pays reconnaissent que les contenus de l’éducation et les processus  d’apprentissage ont plus d’importance que l’accès à l’éducation. C’est dans cette optique que se situe l’action du  Gouvernement angolais, suite aux recommandations de la Conférence de Jomtien sur l’Éducation pour tous et du Forum  mondial sur l’Éducation pour tous tenu à Dakar en avril 2000. En matière d’enseignement supérieur, l’objectif de  l’Université Agostinho Neto est, dans un premier temps, d’en assurer le développement. Il est important de souligner les
183  progrès réalisés ces dernières années, pour ce qui concerne aussi bien l’éducation que la science et la technologie, grâce  à la création de nouvelles universités et autres établissements d’enseignement supérieur qui contribuent à la formation  des cadres indispensables pour le développement du pays dans tous les secteurs. La paix qui s’est instaurée dans le pays  autorise le retour des populations déplacées et leur réinstallation dans leur région d’origine. Elles peuvent ainsi  reprendre les tâches qui correspondent à leur mode de vie et à leurs intérêts.
27.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous nous félicitons des efforts accomplis ici à l’UNESCO pour que cette  Organisation continue à jouer un rôle novateur et prospectif en faveur du partage des savoirs et de la création de  capacités scientifiques et technologiques dans la société de l’information et du savoir de manière que tous les pays  puissent faire face à la concurrence dans une économie mondialisée et que les efforts scientifiques puissent aboutir à un  développement durable et au progrès social. C’est pourquoi l’Angola demande à cette assemblée d’approuver le projet  de résolution qu’il présente et au Directeur général de prendre les mesures nécessaires pour envoyer en Angola une  équipe intersectorielle qui ferait une étude de faisabilité concernant l’élaboration d’un programme d’assistance spéciale  postconflit dans les domaines de compétence de l’UNESCO.
27.5 S’agissant de la culture, il est à noter que la conservation et la valorisation du patrimoine culturel et naturel  du pays constituent une préoccupation constante du Gouvernement angolais. De ce fait, comme la guerre est terminée, il  devient impérieux d’intensifier les actions dans ce domaine. L’éducation joue un rôle important pour la promotion de la  culture angolaise dans sa diversité et pour la préservation du patrimoine, autant de choses qui constituent une des bases  de la défense de la paix. Nous souhaiterions que l’UNESCO, qui donne un nouvel élan au programme sur les langues  nationales et au projet sur la route de l’esclave, procède à l’adoption de la Convention sur le patrimoine culturel  immatériel pour assurer la promotion et la conservation de ce patrimoine. Dans le domaine de la communication, nous  vivons dans une époque fortement marquée par les technologies de l’information et par la tendance à une massification.  Toutefois, s’il est certain que le phénomène de la mondialisation nous met devant des responsabilités accrues quant au  destin de l’Humanité dans son ensemble, il n’en est pas moins vrai que la question de l’identité nationale pèse encore  fortement sur l’équilibre des relations internationales. Or, c’est cette identité qu’il est nécessaire de faire connaître de  façon adéquate et intense à nos partenaires naturels si l’on veut que s’opère un brassage des cultures.
27.6 Madame la Présidente, Excellences, nous saluons le retour des États-Unis d’Amérique et l’admission de  Timor-Leste à l’UNESCO. Nous remercions le Directeur général et l’encourageons à poursuivre les réformes engagées  qui donneront une plus grande vitalité et plus de transparence aux organes qu’il dirige si bien. Je vous remercie.
(29.1) Mr TOUKAN (Jordan) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President, Mr Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you all. I should like to begin by offering my  congratulations to Mr Michael Omolewa on his election as President of the 32nd session of the General Conference, and
185  to extend to him my best wishes for a successful and productive session. I should also like to offer my thanks and esteem  to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his judicious leadership of the Organization during an important period of its work, one that  has been noteworthy both for challenges and for great accomplishments, and for the qualitative change that he has  brought about in UNESCO’s functioning at the beginning of this new millennium. Thanks to him, the Organization has  made major strides towards reform and has successfully confronted global challenges that are increasing day by day.
(29.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like, on behalf of my country, to welcome the return of the United States of  America to membership of UNESCO, where it, along with other States, can play a pioneering role in the task of giving  material form to the Organization’s ethical and intellectual mission, thereby enabling it to continue to serve as an  intellectual and political forum, one that looks to future horizons and accepts new international challenges, be they  scientific, cultural or economic. The contemporary world is beset by conflicts, famines, environmental pollution,  desertification, the spread of diseases and an exploding population, owing to humanity’s wrongful exploitation of the  gifts of the civilization of our age. This places a greater responsibility on our international Organization to take up these  challenges. We are all striving, we human beings of successive generations, to live in a clean, pollution-free world, one  where love, tolerance, justice and mutual respect between peoples shall prevail, where everyone shall enjoy the rights to  which he or she is entitled, where all societies shall be democratic, shall respect human rights and shall be multicultural,  enriching world civilization with their diversity. That is why we support the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity,  which was adopted by the General Conference at its last session, and also any international agreement arising therefrom  that fosters respect for multiculturalism and national identities.
(29.3) Ladies and gentlemen, many of the challenges to which I have alluded have been addressed in the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2004-2005, especially the section on mobilization to combat poverty, with its focus on  education to ensure success in that endeavour. The document’s concern with preventive education to combat the diseases  of our time is also noteworthy, as are the continuing effort to achieve sustainable development and improve water  resource management, the ongoing concern with ethical issues in science and technology, the initiatives relating to  dialogue among civilizations, multiculturalism and the preservation of the cultural heritage of the world’s various  communities and peoples. In that connection, I must note in particular the occupied holy city of Jerusalem and the  implementation of decisions relating to it that were adopted by the Executive Board of this Organization at its last session,  or the resolutions adopted by the General Conference and the relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations General  Assembly and the Security Council on the situation of that occupied city. The occupying power continues to disregard  these resolutions and decisions as they apply to Jerusalem’s culture, architecture, history and people and the renovation of  the shrines there. The occupying power also refuses to allow the representative of the Director-General of this  Organization to carry out the mission entrusted to him, which is to prepare a report on the condition of the city.  Accordingly, we support the Director-General’s initiative aimed at preparing a comprehensive work plan for the  safeguarding of the city of Jerusalem and establishing a Committee of Experts to develop the main lines of that plan. My  country is prepared to participate as a member of that Committee and to contribute, at the international level, in the task  of protecting the city’s endangered heritage.
(29.4) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to commend the item in Major Programme II of the Draft Programme and  Budget on support for the establishment and development of an international centre for the use of synchrotron rays in the  experimental and applied sciences in the Middle East (SESAME), which is to be located in Jordan, and also the  strengthening of the science programme and its relationship with international cooperation for peace and development. I  ask this august Conference to support this orientation on the part of the Director-General, whom I thank most sincerely,  along with the Organization as a whole and its Executive Board, for the care that they have rightly devoted to the  SESAME project, for the prospective Centre will serve to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of science. I am  pleased to note at this point that the foundation-stone of the Centre was laid early this year on the campus of Al-Balqa  Applied University, near Jordan’s capital, Amman, under the auspices of His Majesty, King Abdullah II Bin Al-Hussein,  accompanied by the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who has spared no effort to support this vital  project. All the necessary arrangements have been made to complete the building of the Centre and install the equipment  provided by the Government of Germany in 2006 so that the Centre can become operational. I should like to take this  opportunity to ask any States of the Mediterranean basin that have not yet become members of the Centre to do so, for  this is a very important project that will serve the cause of scientific progress in the region.
(29.5) Ladies and gentlemen, we support the Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005, which is a reaffirmation  of the Organization’s continuing reform effort through concentration, rationalization and decentralization. Because of that  support, we feel impelled, in the context of the five major programmes, to make two requests. First, that regional or  national seminars be organized to build regional and national strategies for the development of education for the  knowledge economy, and to provide Member States with more support at the regional and national levels for curriculum  development and the production of educational materials using information technology. And secondly, that Member  States are afforded support to ensure more effective protection of our cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, in all  its forms, and work for more UNESCO Chairs in the field of dialogue among civilizations and cultural pluralism.
(29.6) In conclusion, I should like to reiterate my thanks and esteem for the efforts of the Executive Board, the  Director-General of UNESCO, the Secretariat and the regional field offices aimed at carrying the work of the  Organization to ever greater heights in the coming years. Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you all.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished Minister of Education of Jordan. We take note of the work that is going  on in your country, and your concerns. I now call upon His Excellency the honourable Dr Henry Jeffrey, Minister of  Education of Guyana. You have the floor, Sir.
31.1 Mr JEFFREY (Guyana):  Madam President, Mr Director-General, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Excellencies, ladies  and gentlemen, who would have thought that the advent of a unipolar world would have brought such global instability?  The conflict of two major ideologies, circumscribed to more or less specific geographical spheres, has given way to  multiple ideological and cultural conflicts almost everywhere! Well-understood locations of destructive force have  ceded their place to many illusive, even if individually more limited, global threats. It is almost certain that the ordinary  citizen of today feels less secure than those living two decades ago.
31.2 True, there has been substantial scientific and technological progress and, taken generally, there has been  much social improvement. However, despite all our efforts, there is still massive poverty, inequality and exclusion in  the very fields of this Organization’s competence. Further, only the blind would claim that we have learnt to live better  lives, that we have a greater appreciation and respect for our and other species. Perhaps one has to live in a country like  Guyana to truly appreciate the discordance between our material and cultural growth. In Guyana, the challenge is to  successfully create conditions that will foster integrated cultural coexistence. Indeed, this appears a sine qua non for us  if we are to participate in the general material progress of which I have spoken.
31.3 Madam President, I should like, on behalf of my people, my government and myself, to congratulate the  President and his colleagues for accepting the responsibility of guiding this 32nd session of the General Conference. We  are assured that under his astute guidance, only a successful conclusion is possible. We also welcome the return of the  United States of America, which can only enhance the work of this Organization. To the distinguished Director-General,  let me say how very honoured we were to have played host to you during your short but fruitful visit to our country.  Today, organizations must consistently change or die. Therefore, Sir, we congratulate you on the reforms you have been  able to effect since you assumed the office of Director-General.
31.4 In keeping with the situation I have outlined, my delegation believes that, as we examine and discuss the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005, we need to pay particular attention to UNESCO’s commitment to bring  peace, justice and tolerance. We need to chart a course that will improve our capacity to cooperatively live productive  lives. Even where access to material wealth is obvious, the level of disassociation from our community and even from  ourselves is truly amazing. As we face the challenges of globalization, our task must be to make material development  the handmaiden of the good life everywhere.
31.5 More specifically, in Guyana we maintain a heavy emphasis on education, which accounts for some 8.3% of  our GDP. Although we can claim to have achieved Universal Primary Education, our Education Strategic Plan
2003/2007 identified a number of disparities that persist in the education system, especially in the remote hinterland  areas where most of our indigenous people live. Our Plan, which incorporates the Dakar goals that are relevant to us,  provides a framework that has allowed us to access the Education for All Fast Track Initiative, coordinated by the  World Bank. We wish to thank the people and Government of the Netherlands for the resources they have already  committed to assist Guyana in this process.
31.6 Madam President, Guyana’s geographical location and indigenous, African, East Indian, Chinese, and  European heritage have left it well endowed naturally and culturally. Our current efforts to develop our tourist industry  require us to give high priority to enhancing these assets sustainably. In this regard, we will continue to try to meet the  conditions laid down by the World Heritage Committee for the creation of a world heritage cluster site that will contain  some of our most historic and beautiful locations.
31.7 Madam President, if we are to defeat bigotry, xenophobia, chauvinism, racism and related dysfunctionalities,  we need open and free societies where views and ideas can be freely exchanged and challenged. That is why we are  particularly pleased with the Memorandum of Understanding between the University of Guyana and UNESCO for the  establishment of a UNESCO Chair on “Freedom of Expression”.
31.8 UNESCO’s mandate encompasses some of the most important needs of the present day. One of its purposes  is to encourage the establishment of and adherence to rules and laws in a world where the recourse to force usually  appears to serve one’s interests more effectively. It also has a vital ethical mission in a world in which materialism  suppresses morality. We in Guyana pledge to continue to work for the attainment of an equitable, free and prosperous  global community. I thank you.
32. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Minister of Education of Guyana and all the voices from the small States calling out for peace.  We appreciate the work being accomplished in your country. It is my pleasure now to call upon Her Excellency  Ms Marta Lafuente, Vice-Minister of Education of Paraguay.
(33.1) Ms LAFUENTE (Paraguay) (translation from the Spanish):   Madam President, Ministers, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Heads of  Delegation, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen: first of all, I should like, on behalf of my country and our delegation, to  congratulate the President of the General Conference on his election; similarly, we welcome the return of the United  States of America to the Organization and the accession to membership of Timor-Leste.
(33.2) The 32nd session of the UNESCO General Conference comes at a time of exceptional importance in the  institutional, social and cultural development of Paraguay. In the political arena, the significant step taken recently to  strengthen democracy is our country’s best guarantee of citizens’ participation in public affairs. Equally important, in a  different realm, is the strong progress made during the past decade in education, based on an educational reform  recognized at the national and international level as one of the most ambitious Paraguay has undertaken in recent times.  In this exceptional context, Paraguay affirms and renews its intention to reinforce its presence and responsibility in the  international community, a sphere in which UNESCO is one of the main landmarks.
(33.3) The start of the reform of basic general education and basic schooling coincided with the holding of the  Jomtien Conference and, consequently, our reform is based on its educational principles and guidelines. The reform of  middle education is based on UNESCO’s four pillars of education, to which Paraguay has added a fifth: “learning to do”.  The aim of the education reform is to improve the quality of life of men and women. By quality of life we mean the  simultaneous satisfaction of the need to construct individual and collective identity and the need for security, well-being  and freedom. Following a prolonged period of backwardness resulting from 35 years of dictatorship, Paraguay has  managed in less than a decade to bring one million boys, girls and young people into the school system, bearing in mind  that our population is 5,830,000 and that 63% of the population is under 30 years of age. Bilingual Castilian/Guaraní  education is one of the basic components of the policy of equality, given the socio-linguistic profile of the population. We  should like to point out that Paraguay is the first State on the continent to give official recognition to an Amerind  language for its entire population. Romoïvo ojoykére mokoïvéva ore ñe’ë, guarani ha castellano, hi’ä oréve rohechauka  ore romomba’eha pe ore mba’eteéva, romboyke’ÿr mba’eve oúva oréve okaguio, ikatuma guive orepytyvö rosë haguä  tavy, mboriahu ha teko asygui. I should like our distinguished audience to hear our Guaraní voice. “With bilingual  education we are strengthening our identity and our openness to cultural diversity in the world and to all that contributes  to overcoming ignorance, poverty and suffering.” To increase the effectiveness of basic education, raise its quality,  expand the availability of middle education, since at present 60% of young people do not reach this level, and reform  teacher training to meet the needs of education for the twenty-first century: these are the challenges facing educational  reform. Reform of higher education is one of our greatest challenges. Illiteracy affects 7.1% of the population in  Paraguay, and our country has pledged to achieve the goals set for this decade, the Decade of Literacy.
(33.4) In terms of culture, Paraguayan society is multi-ethnic and multicultural, as we have already mentioned and,  in that connection, in view of the wealth of the intangible heritage, we welcome the progress made on the draft  international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. It is equally important that the standards  relating to the convention be approved by the General Conference at this, its 32nd, session. We also consider it important  that UNESCO should be the forum for debate on and preparation of a preliminary draft of a future international  convention on cultural diversity. We appreciate UNESCO’s efforts to foster the development and promotion of cultural  expressions in Paraguay, especially its music, the Guaraní language and the Paraguayan polka.
(33.5) The availability of fresh water is decreasing throughout the world. Already, one person in five does not have  access to clean drinking water. Paraguay has a water system the surface waters of which are composed of more than
800 rivers and, what is more, its territory rests on part of the Guaraní aquifer, known as the Acuífero Gigante del  MERCOSUR. If we were to use only 40 cubic kilometres annually, we should be able to provide 300 million persons
189  with 300 litres of water per day. We welcome UNESCO’s contribution to the implementation of Major Programme II,  which deals with this theme for the good of humanity.
(33.6) With regard to decentralization, we endorse the concept of and rationale for management reform; nevertheless,  we would request that an evaluation be carried out in the MERCOSUR region with a view to defining clearly the role and  responsibilities of the cluster, regional and national offices. We also believe the time has come to reconsider the closure  of the UNESCO Office in Asunción.
(33.7) Given the principles it endorses, UNESCO has a fundamental role to play in Latin America, in view of the  latter’s present circumstances. Poverty has increased: nearly 50% of the population is poor; 36% of children under the  age of two are seriously undernourished; only one in three adolescents has access to secondary education; the maternal  mortality rate is five times higher than in the developed word; one third of the population lacks drinking water. One  cannot help but ask: why does such a rich continent have such widespread poverty? Why is Latin America the most  inequitable continent on the planet? Restoring a proper understanding of the causes and developing effective proposals  for confronting them is part of the agenda that we must strengthen with UNESCO, including an increase in resources.  “The South exists, too.” These inequalities threaten the success of educational programmes and the viability of  democracy. Above all, they call for an ethical dimension to all human action.
(33.8) We endorse UNESCO’s aim to become a laboratory for reflection. Nevertheless, we believe that a laboratory  is always an artificial space, and accordingly we propose giving it a local framework, for example a human community  for dialogue on the biosphere and its preservation, to include all people and not only the “info-rich”. We have a right to  the future. Thank you very much.
(35.1) Mr ALWAN (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):   In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Madam President, Madam Chairperson of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, peace and the mercy and blessings of  God be upon you all. It gives me great pleasure to begin my remarks by congratulating the President of the General  Conference on his election as President for this session, and to wish him all success as he presides over its work. I should  also like, on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the new Government of Iraq, to offer my thanks and  esteem to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for his judicious leadership and for his distinguished support for the strengthening of  cooperation programmes and activities between UNESCO and Iraq during his new mandate. May I also express my  gratification at the reforms that he has undertaken. I think that I must also take this opportunity to commend the role  played by, and salute the memory of, a friend of all Iraqis, the late Sergio de Mello, a victim of terrorism. He made  education the top priority of United Nations action in Iraq. I should also like to express my gratitude to all the States that  are extending the hand of assistance and support to Iraqis in rebuilding their country.
(35.2) Ladies and gentlemen, until the early 1980s Iraq enjoyed an advanced system of education that was ruined by  the policies and practices followed by the previous regime. Spending for education and culture was sharply cut when the  resources allocated were redirected to military spending and misused, and, of course, when sanctions were imposed upon  the country. Educational facilities deteriorated, teaching materials were in desperately short supply, and many qualified  teachers and experts left the country; in a word, the educational accomplishments that Iraq had achieved over the  preceding decades were lost. For example, average annual spending fell to a mere $47 per student, and over 80% of Iraqi
191  schools were unable to perform their duties and were urgently in need of repair and rehabilitation. The education sector  was severely crippled. The culmination came in the form of destructive operations carried out by forces of ruin seeking to  destabilize Iraq and blight its prosperity. Today, we have approximately 3,000 schools that are awaiting urgent repairs  after having been plundered and vandalized, and some 700 that will have to be completely rebuilt. The vandalism  extended to technical and vocational schools as well: over 80% of their equipment and laboratories have been destroyed.
(35.3) Nor has the deterioration of Iraq’s education sector been limited to its infrastructure; there has also been a  noteworthy weakening in students’ performance and markedly increased numbers of drop-outs. Our statistics indicate  that 25% of all children of primary-school age are now not attending school; in the case of girls in rural areas, the figure  is closer to 50%. The poverty and hardship that affect most of the Iraqi people, unfortunately, constitute the root cause of  the drop-out phenomenon and the decline in the educational level.
(35.4) The ruin and destruction that have befallen education in Iraq have not affected Iraqis only. The deformation,  damage and theft that have been and continue to be the lot of Iraq’s cultural heritage have affected all humanity, because  the heritage of my country, the land of Mesopotamia, belongs to the entire world, and not to Iraqis alone. Accordingly,  we ask you all to join with us in bringing about the return of our stolen archaeological property and dealing with the  disaster that has befallen our cultural heritage, and to help us protect that heritage and rebuild its structures and symbols. I  am referring in particular to the restoration and maintenance of Iraq’s museums and the National Library.
(35.5) Madam President, Iraqis today believe that the rebuilding of their country’s education system must be one of  the priorities of reconstruction, and that it is the basis of sustainable development and economic and social progress.  There is no doubt that we are confronted with enormous challenges: the rebuilding of infrastructure, the renewal and  reorientation of the system, and national capacity-building, especially with respect to the training of teachers, curriculum  reform and the upgrading of teaching and learning methods. The Iraqi Government’s short-term plans include making a  start on the rebuilding of schools and educational institutions that have been destroyed and developing a work plan for the  reorientation of the system. That reorientation will feature learning for all, the upgrading of educational quality and the  strengthening of equality, regardless of affiliations, and freedom of expression. We want to build a new vision for the  development of our human assets so that we can reclaim our rightful place and our ancient cultural history, ensuring that  education and culture play a fundamental role in combating bigotry and the culture of violence and terrorism and  spreading the principles of tolerance, democracy and human rights, which were comprehensively violated during the  previous period of despotism. As you know, Iraq today urgently needs UNESCO and the entire international community  to make an extraordinary effort and provide it with immediate support in addressing these challenges.
(35.6) Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the return of the United States of America to UNESCO. We consider that,  thanks to this positive development, the Organization will now be able to perform its tasks and attain its objectives more  effectively, and that the world’s efforts to support education and promote literacy will be strengthened.
(35.7) We have considered the Draft Programme and Budget for 2004-2005, and we support its main lines of  emphasis. Generally speaking, it is consistent with our concerns and aspirations, especially in the areas of education for  all and literacy, and training and national capacity-building.
(35.8) The Iraqi people have embarked on a new era, rebuilding the State and civil society and reorganizing political  life, and placing their trust in the values of equality, justice, democracy and human rights for all Iraqis, regardless of race  or creed. We in the new government are well aware of the immensity of the challenge confronting us and the full weight  of this difficult task, but we are relying on our people. Guided by the experience of other peoples, and with the  cooperation of those who are stretching out their hands to help us through this crucial period in our contemporary history,  we are confident that this new era will be one of well-being and prosperity. I thank you. Peace and the Mercy and  Blessings of God be upon you all.
36. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Minister. We have taken note of all the concerns and efforts of your government. I now  invite Mr Herbert Domacassé, Minister of Education and Culture of the Netherlands Antilles. You have the floor, Sir.
37.1 Mr DOMACASSE (Netherlands Antilles):  Madam President, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government of the Netherlands Antilles I would first like  to congratulate our new President, Ambassador Omolewa, on being chosen to preside over the General Conference of  UNESCO at its 32nd session, and I wish him continued success in the subsequent proceedings. We also join previous  speakers in welcoming the United States of America back to UNESCO. As newly appointed Minister of Education and  Culture of the Netherlands Antilles, it is for me a great honour to take part in UNESCO’s General Conference.
37.2 The Netherlands Antilles has a unique position in UNESCO as an Associate Member, being part of the  Kingdom of the Netherlands. Yet because of our geographical location, we form part of the region of Latin America and  the Caribbean within UNESCO’s structure. The Netherlands Antilles deliberately chose to be part of the UNESCO  cluster office for the Caribbean based in Kingston, Jamaica, which was established in January 2002 as part of the
192  reorganization of UNESCO. Since then, we have noticed the attention that UNESCO has given to the Caribbean by the  positioning of a cadre of professional expertise in all UNESCO’s fields of competence. Although we would also like to  see more Caribbean nationals posted in the subregional office, we are of the opinion that the increased professional  capacity since 2002 will benefit the entire Caribbean region. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the  Caribbean countries for the efforts made to create a common approach to work together on strategic priorities.
37.3 My government believes that education is a fundamental right for every citizen, regardless of religion, race  and political belief. Education is the key to the social and economic growth of our modern community. Therefore, our  efforts are based on an educational system which should be directed at social survival, the ability to cope and each  individual’s capacity for self-defence. We are presently carrying out a fundamental change in our educational system. I  will not go into detail about the new structure; however, I will say that the core of this whole process is to focus mainly  on the child so that he or she can develop in such a way as to make a positive contribution to a rapidly changing society.  In the Education Sector, we recommend that UNESCO continue with the Culture of Peace Programme. Based on the  latest evidence of a growing crime rate in almost all countries in the Caribbean, we are of the opinion that more  attention should be paid to the quality of education based on the ethics and values in a society. Because of the  geographical situation of the Caribbean there is also a strong need for training materials and support of Caribbean  advancement in disaster management. In cooperation with UNESCO we suggest that a plan be set up for this purpose.
37.4 In the Communication and Information Sector, more support should be given to local productions and the  role of the media in documenting major Caribbean events as part of a public media strategy for the region. UNESCO’s  activities in this area should be based on the awareness of the need for an efficient media policy and the establishing of  a regional framework for media policies as a basis upon which to set up national media policies.
37.5 The protection of the natural and cultural heritage is becoming an essential component in the development of  heritage tourism. Furthermore we, as parents, teachers and managers, are obliged to make sure that our cultural heritage  is being transferred to our children – the youth – who are the future. In the Culture Sector, there is a need for capacity- building and research in the field of cultural industries, where not only artists and craftspeople should be trained, but  also administrators, managers, promoters and copyright lawyers.
37.6 As the Caribbean was a major region where enslaved Africans were forced to build a new life, the Haitian  Revolution should be seen as the pilot revolution to encourage the rest of the western hemisphere to abolish slavery.  Thus, we must inevitably pay extra attention to the Bicentenary of the Haitian Revolution and to the year 2004 as the  International Year to Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition. The Social and Human Sciences  Sector has not been active up to now in the Caribbean subregion. I would therefore like to recommend that UNESCO,  in the coming biennium, give sufficient support to actions related to human rights, gender equality, youth empowerment,  social research and social policy in our region. This is of the utmost importance in order to prevent corruption and  degeneration of communities, with all the related consequences.
37.7 With regard to the Natural Sciences Sector, I would like to mention that the Sector is not sufficiently visible  in the Caribbean subregion, although a remarkable start has been made with the Caribbean Sea Project in combination  with the Sand Watch Project, which deserve to continue.
37.8 Madam President, as its Chairperson, I am very proud to commemorate this year the 20th anniversary of the  Netherlands Antilles National Commission for UNESCO. The Netherlands Antilles was the first country to become an  Associate Member of UNESCO. I would like to bring to the attention of this Conference, however, our concern  regarding the application of the rights and obligations of Associate Members, as ratified in resolution 41.2 adopted by  the General Conference at its 6th session. This resolution clearly states “Associate Members shall have the right to  participate equally with Members subject to the limitation on voting”. On behalf of the Associate Members of  UNESCO, I would like to make a request to the Director-General to inform all partner organizations of UNESCO of  these equal rights of Associate Members, as ratified in 6 C/Resolution 41.2.
37.9 In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly believe in the strength and value of  UNESCO. It remains the international organization for creating a bridge to peace in the world. It is the international  Organization that ensures an intercultural dialogue on sustainable human development. It is the organization that  guarantees that small countries are able to maintain their own identity and the one that demonstrates the equitable  distribution of needs of all Member States and Associate Members. Madam President, Thank you.
38. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Minister of Education and Culture of the Netherlands Antilles for that very focused statement. I  now call His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Sihamoni, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to UNESCO of  Cambodia.
39.1 S. A. R. le Prince NORODOM SIHAMONI (Cambodge) :   Madame la Présidente, Excellences, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Mesdames, Mesdemoiselles, Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter très chaleureusement S. E. M.  Michael Omoleva pour son élection au poste prestigieux de Président de la Conférence générale. Au nom du Royaume  du Cambodge, au nom de S. M. le roi Norodom Sihanouk et au nom du Gouvernement Royal, je présente mes  meilleures et cordiales salutations aux éminents États membres ici présents. C’est pour moi un grand honneur de  pouvoir m’adresser à la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO réunie pour sa 32e session. Je saisis cette heureuse occasion  pour exprimer ma profonde gratitude à S. E. M. Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général de l’UNESCO, pour son soutien  constant au peuple khmer.
39.2 Le Cambodge se félicite du retour des États-Unis d’Amérique et de l’arrivée du Timor-Leste au sein de  l’UNESCO.
39.3 Madame la Présidente, ces dernières années, les autorités cambodgiennes ont fait de l’élimination de la  pauvreté et du développement socioéconomique du pays leurs premières priorités. Le Ministère de l’éducation, de la  jeunesse et des sports a présenté son plan national pour l’Éducation pour tous. Le Cambodge soutient l’approche  interdisciplinaire fondée sur l’élaboration de programmes associant la culture, l’éducation et l’éducation pour une  culture de la paix, encore si nécessaire dans une société toujours marquée par les stigmates des conflits. L’intégration  des femmes dans le système éducatif reste une autre priorité du gouvernement, qui partage en cela la vision de  l’UNESCO.
39.4 Madame la Présidente, le Cambodge se félicite de ce que la Conférence générale soit appelée à examiner la  question de l’élaboration d’un nouvel instrument normatif international pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel  immatériel. La nécessité d’assurer d’urgence la protection adéquate du patrimoine immatériel exige l’adoption d’un tel  instrument juridique. Nous nous associons aux efforts des États membres qui souhaitent élaborer aussi un instrument  international pour la protection de la diversité culturelle. La lutte pour le respect des cultures et des identités nécessite  un instrument normatif international fixant un cadre juridique propre à protéger et promouvoir cette diversité, faute de  quoi nous risquons d’assister à une homogénéisation des diverses formes d’expression culturelle et artistique qui font la  dignité de l’être humain.
39.5 Le Cambodge se félicite de l’importance donnée à la Convention de 1970 concernant les mesures à prendre  pour interdire et empêcher l’importation, l’exportation et le transfert de propriété illicites des biens culturels. Les États  doivent porter une attention extrême à la lutte contre les fouilles clandestines et au contrôle des opérations d’acquisition,  d’exportation et d’importation de biens culturels. Nous soutenons l’adoption d’une déclaration relative aux actes  constituant un crime contre l’humanité. Un tel texte aura pour objet principal d’énoncer des principes de base  concernant la protection du patrimoine culturel, et visera expressément la destruction intentionnelle du patrimoine  culturel en temps de paix comme en temps de guerre. Mon pays tient à souligner le rôle considérable que joue le Comité  intergouvernemental pour la promotion du retour de biens culturels à leur pays d’origine ou de leur restitution en cas  d’appropriation illégale. Le retour de biens possédant une profonde valeur spirituelle et culturelle permet à des pays  comme le Cambodge de reconstituer la mémoire collective de leur civilisation.
39.6 Madame la Présidente, le Cambodge se félicite du soutien accordé aux sciences de l’eau, pour la promotion  desquelles l’UNESCO joue désormais un rôle mobilisateur et prône des approches visant à faire de l’eau, non plus un  facteur de conflit, mais un facteur de paix. Au pays khmer, l’UNESCO s’impose comme un acteur majeur pour la  protection de notre grand lac, le Tonlé Sap, et, bien entendu, pour la promotion de l’éducation relative à  l’environnement.
39.7 Mon pays s’est résolument lancé dans l’édification de la société de l’information. Il est fort surprenant de  voir dans notre capitale et dans nos provinces la passion des Cambodgiens pour les technologies de l’information. Nous  soutenons les programmes de l’UNESCO qui visent à encourager le développement des nouvelles technologies et leur  utilisation dans les pays les plus pauvres.
39.8 Nous tenons à féliciter le Directeur général pour la politique de décentralisation qu’il a mise en œuvre et qui  permet de renforcer les bureaux hors Siège chargés d’élaborer des projets opérationnels dans des pays en situation de  postconflit, comme c’est le cas du Cambodge. À cet égard, il convient de souligner le rôle central du Bureau de  l’UNESCO au Cambodge et le dynamisme de l’équipe qui l’anime. L’UNESCO s’est bien illustrée par la manière dont  elle a mobilisé la communauté internationale pour la sauvegarde d’Angkor. C’est maintenant dans le domaine de  l’éducation qu’elle assure la coordination des donateurs.
39.9 Madame la Présidente, à plusieurs égards, 2003 est pour le Cambodge une année marquante. Elle est d’abord  l’année de deux célébrations. Le 9 novembre prochain, le peuple khmer célébrera le cinquantième anniversaire de son
194  Indépendance, œuvre historique et éternelle de S. M. le roi Norodom Sihanouk. Les 14 et 15 novembre, la France  accueillera à Paris une conférence intergouvernementale destinée à commémorer les 10 ans du Comité international de  coordination pour la sauvegarde et le développement du site historique d’Angkor, coprésidé par la France et le Japon, et  dont l’UNESCO assure le secrétariat permanent. Le Cambodge a décidé cette année de présenter sa candidature au  Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO, pour la première fois depuis son adhésion à l’Organisation le 3 juillet 1951.
39.10 Pour finir, permettez-moi d’adresser à la Conférence générale mes vœux fervents de succès et de pleine  réussite pour cette 32e session. Je vous remercie de votre attention.
40. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Your Royal Highness, for telling us of your country’s concerns and the work it is  doing. I now call Her Excellency Ms Yolande Tano, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Côte d’Ivoire to  UNESCO. You have the floor, Madam.
41.1 Mme TANO (Côte d’Ivoire) :   Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les Chefs de délégations, Madame la Présidente du Conseil  exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Honorables invités, Mesdames et Messieurs, au nom de M. le  Ministre de l’éducation nationale, empêché, au nom de la délégation ivoirienne que j’ai l’insigne honneur de conduire,  ainsi qu’en mon nom personnel, je voudrais vous exprimer toute la joie que j’éprouve à participer aux travaux de cette
32e session de la Conférence générale, à la tête de laquelle vient d’être porté un frère, S. E. M. Michael Abiola  Omolewa, délégué permanent du Nigéria. Je voudrais, avant de poursuivre mon propos, transmettre les sincères  remerciements du chef de l’État, le Président Laurent Gbagbo, la profonde gratitude du gouvernement et du peuple  ivoiriens à S. E. M. Koïchiro Matsuura, directeur général de l’UNESCO, pour le soutien efficace et multiforme que  l’UNESCO, à l’instar de nos autres partenaires pour le développement, n’a cessé d’apporter à la Côte d’Ivoire depuis le  début de la crise sociopolitique qu’elle traverse. Nous le remercions aussi pour la contribution inestimable de  l’Organisation à la recherche d’une solution politique définitive, comme nous sommes reconnaissants à certains  contributeurs, tels que la France, la Belgique, le Japon, l’Union européenne, la Grande-Bretagne, et d’autres.
41.2  Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, pour nous, Ivoiriens, cette 32e session revêt une importance  toute particulière, car la crise que vit notre pays, en nous faisant réfléchir, nous permet de mieux comprendre les  fondements essentiels de la création de l’UNESCO il y a plus de 50 ans. N’est-ce pas en plein drame, celui que  représenta la deuxième guerre mondiale, qu’est née l’idée de cette Organisation prestigieuse ? Le Premier Ministre  anglais, Clement Attlee, en ouvrant la première Conférence de l’UNESCO à Londres en 1946, lançait de façon  lapidaire : "N’est-ce pas après tout dans l’esprit des hommes que les guerres prennent naissance ?" On sait la fortune  que connut cette pensée depuis. Non seulement elle est un point essentiel du préambule de l’Acte constitutif, mais  surtout ce qui pouvait apparaître comme une construction de l’esprit garde encore aujourd’hui toute sa valeur. Mieux  qu’une promesse, c’est une espérance pour toute l’humanité qui, malgré des problèmes technologiques, doit résoudre  des problèmes comme celui de l’eau, de la santé, de l’éducation et surtout celui de la promotion de la paix dans le  monde. Par son Acte constitutif et par ses domaines de compétence, l’UNESCO nourrit fortement cet espoir dont  parlaient les pères fondateurs du système des Nations Unies. C’est pourquoi je veux profiter de cette occasion pour  souhaiter la bienvenue aux nouveaux membres comme le Timor-Leste et saluer vivement le retour des États-Unis  d’Amérique dans notre maison commune, l’UNESCO.
41.3 Honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, à ce stade de mon propos, permettez-moi quelques  commentaires que m’ont inspiré la lecture et l’analyse du 32 C/5. La conception générale du Programme et budget pour  l’exercice 2004-2005 est claire et concise ; elle prend en compte les préoccupations essentielles des États membres.  Pour le grand programme I sur l’éducation, la Côte d’Ivoire adhère aux orientations générales de l’UNESCO pour  l’exercice 2004-2005. Certes, mon pays rencontre d’énormes difficultés dans la mise en œuvre des résolutions de Dakar,  en raison notamment de la crise. Toutefois, le programme d’éducation d’urgence et de reconstruction, le programme  PEER, a assuré à tous les enfants de Côte d’Ivoire le droit à l’éducation par une intervention dans les différentes zones  pour évaluer, valider ou proposer des alternatives. Son action a permis de ne pas ternir l’image de l’école ivoirienne.  Cet aspect des activités dans le domaine de l’éducation, avec des interventions de terrain, mérite d’être renforcé pour  assister les pays en crise. En outre, la lutte contre la pandémie du sida demeure une priorité. C’est pour cette raison que  la Côte d’Ivoire a été le premier pays à créer un ministère chargé de la lutte contre le sida. Il meurt, chaque semaine de  l’année scolaire, cinq enseignants et sept élèves en moyenne. Nous sommes reconnaissants à l’UNESCO et au  Gouvernement italien pour leur concours à la création en Côte d’Ivoire d’un centre de recherches et de prévention du  sida. Nous estimons que la coopération de l’UNESCO dans le secteur des sciences pour la lutte contre le sida doit être  renforcée afin d’aider l’Afrique à se doter des structures et des compétences nécessaires pour enrayer ce fléau.
41.4 J’en viens au grand programme III relatif aux sciences sociales et humaines pour dire que la question de la  bioéthique est au cœur des préoccupations de notre pays. C’est pourquoi le gouvernement a mis en place un Comité
195  national de bioéthique. La question de l’éthique ne se limite plus au domaine médical. De plus en plus, les projets de  recherches doivent intégrer cette dimension dans leur approche. La Côte d’Ivoire prend en compte également la  dimension de la pauvreté dans sa politique de développement durable. Aussi a-t-elle élaboré, avec l’appui des  partenaires pour le développement, un document relatif à une stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté. En raison du  contexte actuel, il faut encore relativiser l’effet des actions engagées.
41.5 S’agissant de la culture, grâce à l’aide de l’UNESCO, le marché des arts et des spectacles africains, le MASA,  a pu avoir lieu en Côte d’Ivoire malgré les difficultés. Toutefois, mon pays souhaite que l’UNESCO renforce son  soutien pour le retour du patrimoine africain encore pillé et dispersé à travers le monde.
41.6 S’agissant du programme sur la communication, la Côte d’Ivoire appelle au renforcement des capacités de  formation des professionnels et à celui des structures, ainsi qu’à la promotion des médias indépendants. Il s’agit de  relever le défi d’une société de la communication et de l’échange pluriel. Enfin, pour terminer mon intervention, je  voudrais souhaiter, au nom de la délégation ivoirienne, plein succès à l’exercice 2004٢٠٠٥ . Je vous remercie.
42.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mme Yolande Tano for a very succinct presentation. The policy debate will continue, but it is time  for a pause. I would like to thank all the eloquent speakers, who have drawn our attention to the progress that has been  made in UNESCO’s fields of competence. However, a number of statements have highlighted the great disparities and  inequities as well as the conflicts, civil strife and wars across the globe that continue to keep us away from our goals. It  is a challenge to UNESCO to rise up to people’s expectations and refocus its attention on those impediments. We thank  you all and hope that, in the main, as has been stressed in the statements we have heard, such real and genuine dialogue  among, between and within nations and peoples and civilizations will continue and contribute to the fulfilment of our  desires.
42.2 I would also like to thank the audience for their patience. I hope they have listened attentively to the many  words of wisdom, which seem to have come especially from small States. We have a saying in The Gambia that when  two elephants are at war it is the grass that suffers. This reminds me of the dangers we would all face if we do not pay  heed to the voices of those who seem to be excluded from events. I thank you all and wish you Bon Appétit. We shall  reconvene at 3 p.m. The meeting is adjourned.   La séance est levée à 12 h 55   The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.55   Заседание закрывается в 12.55  א א١٢,٥٥א    会议于 12 时 55 分结束