17  Deuxième séance plénière
29 septembre 2003 à 15 h 5  Président : M. JALALI (République islamique d’Iran)  puis : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Second plenary meeting
29 September 2003 at 3.05 p.m.  President: Mr JALALI (Islamic Republic of Iran)  later: Mr OMOLEWA (Nigeria)  Segunda sesión plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Dear colleagues, dear friends, friends of UNESCO, friends of harmony among nations, ladies and gentlemen,  I declare open the second meeting of the 32nd session of the General Conference. We shall begin by examining item 1.4  of our agenda, which is contained in document 32 C/1 Prov. Rev., prepared by the Executive Board at its 167th session.  Supplementary items to be added to the agenda will be considered by the General Committee of the General Conference  at its first meeting tomorrow morning and at further meetings if necessary. In this regard, allow me to remind you that,  according to the Rules of Procedure, all proposals concerning supplementary items to be added to the agenda must be  examined beforehand by the General Committee of the General Conference.
1.2 May I now invite Ms Bennani, Chairperson of the Executive Board, to present this item. Madam, you have  the floor.
1.3 Mme BENNANI (Maroc), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs,  conformément aux dispositions de l’article V.B.6 (a) de l’Acte constitutif, le Conseil exécutif a étudié, lors de sa 166e  session, l’ordre du jour provisoire de la présente session de la Conférence générale sur la base du document 166 EX/25  et Addenda, qui lui avaient été soumis par le Directeur général, et a adopté la décision 166 EX/7.1. Cette décision  dispose « que toutes autres questions qui pourraient être présentées par des États membres ou des Membres associés ou  par l’Organisation des Nations Unies, conformément à l’article 9 du Règlement intérieur, 100 jours au moins avant la  date fixée pour l’ouverture de la session (c’est-à-dire le 20 juin 2003 au plus tard), seront inscrites à l’ordre du jour  provisoire qui sera ensuite communiqué aux États membres et Membres associés 90 jours au moins (c’est-à-dire le
30 juin 2003) avant l’ouverture de la session ».
2.2 À sa 167e session, après avoir examiné le document 167 EX/24 portant sur des ajouts et modifications  apportés à l’ordre du jour provisoire, et en conformité avec l’article 12 du Règlement intérieur, le Conseil exécutif a  décidé - par décision 6.1 - d’inclure 11 nouveaux points dans l’ordre du jour provisoire. En application de l’article 13 du  Règlement intérieur, le Conseil exécutif a préparé, sur la base de l’ordre du jour provisoire, de la liste des questions  supplémentaires et des modifications figurant dans le document 167 EX/24, un ordre du jour provisoire révisé.
2.3 Monsieur le Président, conformément à l’article 13 du Règlement intérieur et au nom du Conseil exécutif, j’ai  l’insigne honneur et le plaisir de soumettre pour approbation à la Conférence générale l’ordre du jour révisé de sa 32e  session, contenu dans le document 32 C/1 (prov.) Rev. Je vous remercie.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board.
3.2 Is there any comment on this item before its adoption? The agenda is adopted.  ÉLECTION DU PRÉSIDENT DE LA CONFÉRENCE GÉNÉRALE  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  ELECCIÓN DEL PRESIDENTE DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  ВЫБОРЫ ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  א א  א 选举大会主席
4.1 Colleagues, friends, we are now going to examine item 1.5 concerning the election of the President of the  General Conference. The document concerned is document 32 C/NOM/1 and Addendum.
4.2 I now call upon H.E. Mr Barros Valero, Chairperson of the Nominations Committee, to present the  recommendations concerning the President of the 32nd session of the General Conference. Mr Chairperson, you have  the floor.
(5) M. BARROS VALERO (Mexique), président du Comité des candidatures (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président, de l’honneur qui m’a été fait. Monsieur le Président, le Comité a  examiné la recommandation du Conseil exécutif relative au poste de Président de la 32e session de la Conférence  générale. C’est ainsi que le Comité a décidé de recommander à la Conférence générale d’élire par acclamation  M. Michael Abiola Omolewa président de la 32e session de la Conférence générale. Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le  Président.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  Friends, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this proposal is warmly supported;  therefore, I am very pleased to announce the election of His Excellency Mr Michael Omolewa, Permanent Delegate of  the Federal Republic of Nigeria to UNESCO, as President of this 32nd session of the General Conference.  (Applause)  It is my duty to inform you, distinguished colleagues, that His Excellency Mr Michael Omolewa has represented his  country, Nigeria, in UNESCO for the past few years, and since 1999 has sat on its Executive Board. After his studies in  history, his successful academic career was notable for the emphasis he placed on adult learning and distance education.  He is an academic expert on education. This is an issue which he then pursued within the Nigerian National  Commission for UNESCO and which, along with his commitment to those who are marginalized, continues to inspire  his diplomatic and human character today. He is a scholar, a skilful diplomat who comes from Africa – a continent that  is a UNESCO priority. And I consider his Presidency over this prestigious House to be a blessing for our ideals.
6.2 In my opinion his Presidency represents a turning point in the consolidation of solidarity among all nations in  this Organization, between developed and developing countries. He will represent all of us – all Member States – in this  intellectual watchtower of the United Nations system. He is a friend, a colleague, and a brother with a human spirit. I  adore him, and all of my colleagues here, during the years that I was here; his ideas for this House are excellent and he  will be a source of promotion of our ideals. I understand that it is my duty, before I leave this podium, to give the floor  to our Director-General, Mr Matsuura, who has a few words to say. Mr Director-General, you have the floor.
7.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I congratulate the new President, it gives me great pleasure to  thank you, Mr President, on behalf of all Member States of UNESCO, all members of the Secretariat and myself, for the  dedication, hard work and tireless devotion to duty you have brought to your role during the past two years. It has been  an outstanding performance, one that has been enlightened by your erudition and enlivened by the breadth and depth of  your intellectual interests. Above all, it is your insistence on the ethical mission of UNESCO that will leave its longest  mark on the Organization, coupled with your enthusiastic promotion of dialogue between civilizations and between  cultures. Allow me to express my personal thanks to you for the close spirit of collaboration we have enjoyed during  your term as President. In recognition of your work it gives me great pleasure to present you with UNESCO’s gold  medal.  (Applause)
7.2 I would like to pay tribute to the new President of the General Conference. Mr President, please accept my  warm congratulations on your election. I wish you every success in fulfilling the duties and the responsibilities that,  from this moment, fall upon your shoulders. Please be assured of my full support in the period ahead. Thank you very  much.
8.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. I would also like, in turn, to thank you for your spirit of cooperation, good  heart, sincerity and transparency since you arrived in this House. You had in mind to bring about a serious reform of the  Organization; you did it, and I am sure that you will continue that – the results are clear for everybody. I know your  devotion to the ideals of this House and I would like to thank you again. Whenever I wanted to consult you, to conduct  this heavy duty, you were available with good heart, openness and transparency, and this is what we expect from this  House. I would like to thank you for everything you did to cooperate with me and to cooperate with the ideals of  UNESCO and I wish you the best success.
8.2 Now before I invite our President I would like you, dear colleagues, to sit down and give me just 30 seconds,  please. You know, dear colleagues, Africa is our priority and an African speaker is going to be President of the House. I  felt it my duty to dress in African dress, and I will never forget that when I was candidate for the Presidency,  representing Asia and the Pacific, the African group supported me, and I want to honour that. I would now like, with a  good heart, to invite the President of the 32nd session of the General Conference to take his place at the podium.  (Applause)
8.3 Friends, Mr President of the 32nd session of the General Conference, I congratulate you. Before I hand over  to you this prestigious authority, as I know how difficult your task will be in this House to respect the timetable, I would  like to present you with this box of After Eight chocolates. It may help you to keep Ministers from talking for more than  eight minutes! Thank you.  (Mr Jalali withdraws from the rostrum to take his place with the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran.   Mr Omolewa, Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, assumes the Presidency)
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, Ambassador Ahmad Jalali, President of the 31st Session of the General Conference, Your  Excellency, Ambassador Aziza Bennani, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General  of UNESCO, heads and members of delegations and observers, distinguished colleagues and friends, honourable ladies  and gentlemen, two years ago, on this very rostrum, my President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo stood before you and  reaffirmed his personal, and Nigeria’s unhindered commitment to UNESCO and to its honourable ideals. The honour  you have just bestowed on my country and on myself is for me an immense demonstration of your appreciation of  Nigeria’s abiding faithfulness to our Organization.
9.2 I am sincerely moved by your confidence in electing me to this high office. I feel humbled by the  responsibilities but your support gives me vigour. I am confident that with God’s guidance and with your kind support,  we shall, together, be equal to the challenges of a successful General Conference and a momentous biennium.
9.3 Allow me also to express my deep appreciation to the African group, which considered Nigeria and myself as  its representatives, their worthy flag-bearer. I feel privileged and obliged to my country for presenting me for this  singular honour. It seems to me a long way from the precincts of the university, where I first started cooperating with  UNESCO, many years ago.
9.4 I should also like to congratulate my predecessor, Ambassador Ahmad Jalali, for the efficient and dedicated  manner in which he has acquitted himself as President over the past two years. He truly celebrated the advantage of not  being bound to directives, but rather to the Constitution of UNESCO, and the collective moral instructions of Member  States, to voice views, concepts and sensitivities rooted in the spirit of that Constitution.  (The President continues in French)
9.5 Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi aussi de remercier S. E. Mme l’Ambassadrice Aziza Bennani pour la  compétence avec laquelle elle a présidé le Conseil exécutif durant ces deux dernières années, ainsi que tous les  membres du Conseil pour leur précieuse contribution au travail de l’Organisation. Comme nos aînés le disaient :  « Manquer de remercier celui qui vous a aidé hier revient à le priver de son bien ». Enfin, je dois remercier notre cher  Directeur général : nous avons suivi de près les progrès accomplis depuis qu’il a pris la tête de l’Organisation. Nous  avons apprécié son engagement et la mise en œuvre transparente et efficace d’un ambitieux programme de réforme.  Monsieur le Directeur général, au moment où je prends mes nouvelles fonctions, je suis impatient de poursuivre cette  coopération. Sachez que je ne laisserai aucune pierre et aucune feuille s’immiscer dans la quête d’un consensus  authentique et significatif concernant tous les défis qui nous attendent.
9.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, beaucoup voient cela comme un truisme, mais permettez-moi de le répéter  aujourd’hui du haut de cette tribune : si l’UNESCO n’existait pas, il faudrait l’inventer. L’UNESCO est indispensable.  L’UNESCO tient ses engagements. L’UNESCO est efficace lorsqu’elle s’attaque au fléau de l’illettrisme, aux  problèmes liés à l’eau, au manque d’accès au savoir et à l’information, et elle a un rôle unique à jouer pour favoriser le  dialogue entre les cultures et les civilisations. Ces réalisations ne sont pas des moindres. L’éducation pour tous, la  préservation et la conservation du patrimoine - qu’il soit culturel, naturel ou immatériel - le respect de la diversité  culturelle : ces thèmes résonnants cachent des concepts profonds et des accomplissements qui sont le fruit de notre  engagement commun. Certes, la quête de la paix et la création d’un monde juste et plus équitable est ce qui nous réunit  tous et donne un sens tout particulier à notre travail. Les pères de notre Acte constitutif ont défini nos objectifs de façon
21  très clairvoyante. Plus que jamais, nous nous devons de suivre la voie qu’ils ont tracée et de poursuivre le travail en  faveur de la paix et du développement humain à travers l’éducation, les sciences, la culture et la communication.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
9.7 Ladies and gentlemen, today we are still far from eradicating illiteracy and ignorance. Too many people have  yet to profit from our efforts towards education for all. The fruits of science and technology are still denied to many and  the communication and information gap – indeed the divide that keeps us apart – is growing wider every day. Lack of  education and knowledge causes scores of people – young, middle-aged and old alike – to fall victims of the HIV/AIDS  pandemic. We must break the silence and face up to the bare facts; for without honesty and transparency we will not  succeed.
9.8 The creation of UNESCO was a tremendous act of faith: faith in the future, in a brighter future for  humankind. UNESCO has always demonstrated its resilience and flexibility in dealing with the most urgent needs of  the time. One of its finest hours came when it responded to the call of the newly independent nations of Africa, Asia  and the Caribbean that joined its ranks in the 1960s. More recently, UNESCO again exhibited great flexibility and  inventiveness in coping with the demands of its new Member States from Central and Eastern Europe. And today, we  are confronted with the need to respond to the crying needs of countries beset by conflicts or emergencies, countries  whose fate cannot be charted along ideological lines.
9.9 Challenges and injustices that still abound in our world, call for a determined action of UNESCO. Vacuum,  disparity and rifts need to be bridged, injustices need to be tackled, and ignorance must be fought. It is therefore  essential that we become an assembly of nations committed to solidarity, equity and brotherhood.
9.10 Nevertheless, inequality persists in our world. Whole societies are burdened with unbearable – or shall we  say unsustainable – debts that continue to prevent them from moving forward in their quest to create better conditions  for their people. Let us join hands to surmount these obstacles unbecoming to humankind. UNESCO must stand firm  and face the challenges of ignorance and poverty, and take note of the emerging information, knowledge and digital  disparity. Finally, and most importantly, UNESCO must face the challenges of learning to live together – in peace, with  regard and respect for the other.
9.11 Our Organization also faces new ethical challenges, especially in the world of science and research.  UNESCO must serve as a forum for open exchange, but also develop normative texts in that regard to help guide action  and behaviour in some of these issues. While upholding the global vocation and value of our Organization, we see in  the development of regional and subregional strategies for many programme areas a useful instrument for a closer and  more specific cooperation with Member States. In my region, for example, a close link has been created between  UNESCO and NEPAD, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. This is a good example which could be  emulated in other regions of the world.
9.12 Universality of action, universality of outreach, universality of spirit and, of course, universality of  membership will henceforth be our calling. It is a precious gift that we must nurture and cultivate every day – through  international cooperation which, though often overlooked, remains the key mandate of our Organization. And so, we are  delighted indeed to welcome our latest member, the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as it takes its place amongst  us. We equally look forward to the return of the United States of America, which resumes its rightful place in this  concert of nations which, as one of its founding Member States, they helped establish.  (The President continues in French)
9.13 Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est en travaillant ensemble avec sincérité, humilité et compréhension que nous  serons en mesure de progresser vers le but auquel nous aspirons tous - vers un monde juste, équitable et pacifique. Je  suis certain que si nous restons fidèles à la vision des pères fondateurs de l’UNESCO, nous pourrons, par notre action  unie et sincère, contribuer à rendre ces aspirations réelles et durables. Une fois encore, permettez-moi de vous remercier  pour la confiance que vous m’accordez. Soyez certains que je ferai tout ce qui est en mon pouvoir pour être à la hauteur  de la tâche que vous m’avez confiée : présider aux travaux de cette historique 32e session de la Conférence générale de  notre Organisation. Je vous remercie.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
9.14 Please allow me now to read a message from the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,  Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, which was conveyed to me only a few hours ago.
9.15 It is with pleasure that I recall my participation in the inauguration of the 31st session of the General  Conference of UNESCO, in the company of my friend Jacques Chirac, the President of the French Republic and host of  our Organization in 2001. At that time, I was privileged to present to the world community not only the new face of  Nigeria – free, democratic, pluralistic, tolerant and committed to the values of dialogue, diversity and education for all –  but also a new face of Africa, which had just agreed on a novel trailblazing plan for the development of our continent,  the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, NEPAD.
9.16 Today, I am addressing you as a distinguished son of Nigeria, and I want to convey through you to the  leaders and nations of the world the appreciation of my Government and indeed of all Nigerians for the honour, trust  and confidence bestowed on us collectively in electing you to serve as President of the General Conference. Your  selection for this high office is not only an honour, but an obligation to us all to work for a world where the principles  and priorities of UNESCO are upheld and promoted. Let me assure you that the Government of Nigeria will do its  utmost to make the term of your Presidency a success for the entire international community.
9.17 The 32nd session which you are presiding over is meeting at a time of many challenges to the multilateral  system. Yet UNESCO, in the past four years under the leadership and steady hand of my friend, Koïchiro Matsuura – its  distinguished Director-General – has performed well and has earned the confidence, trust and indeed gratitude of its  Member States. It has become a beacon among the United Nations agencies in all its domains – and I hope that it will  remain so as new and important responsibilities are added to its already challenging roster of issues aimed at creating a  world of peace. The eradication of illiteracy, the pursuit of education for all, access to safe water and sanitation for all,  the protection and conservation of the world’s heritage, the opening up of the treasures and riches of scientific  development, the ethics of science and technology, and above all the eradication of poverty and the pursuit of the  Millennium Development Goals are among the towering expectations of Member States of the Organization as it settles  in this first century of the new millennium.
9.18 With the return of the United States of America, for which I salute President George W. Bush, UNESCO has,  for all practical purposes, secured again its universality. This is a high treasure which must be guarded and preserved. It  is only through a universal commitment that the challenging goals formulated by the international community with  respect to poverty, education – in particular girls’ education – literacy, water, access to knowledge and information and  in other areas can be effectively pursued and attained. We in Africa look up to UNESCO to make a decisive  contribution to the effective realization of NEPAD.
9.19 Let us rededicate ourselves, beginning with meaningful measures to advance a dialogue among cultures and  civilizations, to create the defences of peace in the minds of men – which is among the most noble mandates any United  Nations agency has ever received from its members. UNESCO as the voice of reason, the voice of compassion and  solidarity, UNESCO as the advocate of equality and of the appreciation of the richness in our diversity – and indeed,  UNESCO as the house of dialogue, tolerance, understanding, respect for the other and promotion of diversity, must be  continuously nourished in today’s world, which too often is in search of itself. Much hope is placed in the results of  your deliberations, as you review the past and plan the future of our Organization. You must succeed. For it is through  your success that the hope for the achievement of building a better world will be kept alive. With my warmest personal  greetings and best wishes from Nigeria for a successful 32nd session of the General Conference. From Olusegun  Obasanjo.  VISITE DE MME LAURA WELCH BUSH, PREMIÈRE DAME DES ÉTATS-UNIS D’AMÉRIQUE  VISIT OF MS LAURA BUSH, FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  VISITA DE LA SRA. LAURA WELCH BUSH, PRIMERA DAMA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMÉRICA  ВИЗИТ Г-ЖИ ЛАУРЫ ВЭЛЬШ БУШ, ПЕРВОЙ ЛЕДИ СОЕДИНЕННЫХ ШТАТОВ АМЕРИКИ  א א א א ، א  א 美国第一夫人劳拉·布什来访
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, as you are all aware today is a special day for us and for UNESCO. The United States  of America will resume membership of UNESCO as of 1 October 2003. On this occasion we have the honour to  welcome Ms Laura Welch Bush, First Lady of the United States of America. In this regard I would like now to propose  a five minute suspension of the meeting in order to let the Director-General welcome our guest, Ms Laura Welch Bush,  and during this time I would ask you all to please remain seated.  (The meeting is suspended at 3.40 p.m. and resumes at 3.45 p.m.)  (Ms Laura Bush enters the hall and is escorted to her place at the rostrum)
10.2 Your Excellencies, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished  heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, as we welcome the United States of America back to  UNESCO please permit me to introduce the senior distinguished members of their delegation to the General Conference,  led by the United States Secretary of Education, the Honourable Roderick Paige.
10.3 Welcome, and thank you very much for being with us. Your excellencies, the history of the United States  abounds with courageous and determined women who have dedicated their lives to fighting injustice and making our  world a better place for everyone. One such remarkable American woman was Eleanor Roosevelt who, we all recall,  was instrumental in the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The purpose of that Declaration was to  make it possible for all human beings to live in freedom, dignity and peace. Today, UNESCO continues to pursue this  noble goal through education, science, culture and communication. Today we are honoured to have another First Lady  of the United States helping us in this dignified mission.
10.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the United States of America is home again, back in UNESCO, the house of all  culture. And who can better denote the valuable relation between UNESCO and its long-lost founding Member State, its  future synergy, than Ms Laura Bush, the Honorary Ambassador for the United Nations Literacy Decade. Long before  Ms Bush became the First Lady of the United States she was an elementary school teacher and librarian. That  experience not only taught her important lessons about how children learn but it also inspired her to promote education,  to speak on behalf of children and the teachers who help them learn and grow to achieve their greatest potential.  Ms Bush became a motivating factor and leader in her country by launching a national initiative called “Ready to Read,  Ready to Learn”, providing parents with the resources to teach children how to read. Wherever she travels Ms Bush  encourages others to pursue the honourable career of teaching and to use their talents to make a difference in the lives of  children the world over. She has been a strong advocate for greater education opportunities for women and children.  She believes that every child, every single child, deserves a high quality education so that no child is left behind in  school or in life. We are therefore pleased and honoured to have her with us.
10.5 Ladies and gentlemen, let us please welcome Ms Laura Bush, First Lady of the United States of America.  (Applause)
11.1 Ms BUSH (First Lady of the United States of America):  Thank you, Dr Omolewa, for your very warm welcome. Mr President of the General Conference,  Madam Chairperson of the Executive Board, and Mr Director-General, your commitment to education is inspiring and I  am privileged to serve as the Honorary Ambassador for the United Nations Literacy Decade. Distinguished  Ambassadors, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to address this distinguished gathering.
11.2 One year ago President Bush stood before the United Nations General Assembly and pledged that the United  States of America would return to UNESCO as a symbol of our nation’s commitment to human dignity. Our delegation  is proud to be here today, representing our country and fulfilling that commitment. We believe in working with the  nations of the world to promote values shared by people throughout the world. Working in communities to help friends  and neighbours is part of the fabric of American society. As of 1 October the United States Government will once again  be a full, active and enthusiastic participant in UNESCO’s important mission to promote peace and freedom. And the  people of my country will work with our UNESCO colleagues throughout the world to advance education, science,  culture and understanding.
11.3 Members of our delegation represent some of the United States’ most respected leaders in their fields.  Dr Roderick Paige, the United States Secretary of Education, leads the delegation. Congressman Tom Lantos is here.  Dr David Donald is a Harvard historian and one of the world’s foremost experts on President Abraham Lincoln. Susan  Graham is an award-winning mezzo-soprano from my hometown of Midland, Texas, who has captivated the world with  her music and is here in Paris rehearsing for an opera. Dr James Billington is Librarian of Congress. He has expanded  the Library’s electronic resources to share information with the world. These outstanding leaders represent a host of  agencies, universities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), who are eager to mobilize and once again work  with our partners from UNESCO’s 189 Member States. We have much to offer, and we have much to learn. And,  fellow delegates, given the many challenges in our world today, our work is more urgent and more important than at  any time in UNESCO’s history.
11.4 UNESCO was born of the conviction that peace and security for all nations and all peoples will be advanced  when ignorance, suspicion and mistrust are replaced with education, respect and tolerance. My country was among the  first to ratify UNESCO’s Constitution, which was adopted in the wake of the Second World War. That “great and  terrible war”, the Constitution states, was “made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity,  equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation, in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the
24  doctrine of the inequality of men, and races”. Those words, written almost 58 years ago, speak to us with new challenge  today as we confront the ideology of hate and violence expressed in worldwide acts of terror.
11.5 No nation, we have learned, is immune. We have seen terrorism in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast  Asia. My own country was a target on a terrible September morning two years ago. Since that day, acts of terror have  robbed innocents of their lives in Jakarta, Pakistan and Riyadh. And last month terrorists attacked the very symbol of  the civilized world, striking the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, killing those who had come to deliver  humanitarian help and hope to the people of Iraq. Among the 22 people killed was Sergio Vieira de Mello, who had  dedicated his life to the work of peace and understanding between nations. Many of you knew Sergio well. In his  honour we will take up the noble cause that he lived and ultimately died for.
11.6 UNESCO, an institution borne of a yearning for peace that survived years of war, can now help achieve  peace by spreading the values that will help defeat terror and lead to a safer and better world: education, tolerance,  respect for all human life and respect for each other’s differences. These are our common dreams for our children, and  these are the charge of UNESCO. Now, more than ever, the nations of the world, the peoples of the world, must affirm  the stated purpose of this Organization: “to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human  rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex,  language or religion”. Important work, and it is our work – all of us here at UNESCO. As a former public school  teacher and librarian, I believe education is our most urgent priority, and should have the first and highest call on our  time and resources. Education is vital to developing nations and generations. From the moment they are born, our  children’s lives are shaped by the education we provide them. Education expands eager young minds; a lack of  education stifles and limits them. The chance to learn, and to read and write, should never be only the privilege of the  few – royalty or the rich, the first-born or the sons. Education is the birthright of every human being – all the world’s  sons and all the world’s daughters.
11.7 I have visited many schools across the United States where children are acquiring the skills to achieve their  dreams in life. I have read with elementary students in Japan, London and Mexico. I have met with Girl Scouts in Korea  to talk about service and leadership. I have painted with young survivors of an earthquake in San Salvador in an arts  therapy programme. I know that education is vital for personal development, but as I have watched the faces of the  world’s children, I have also realized that education is vital to a rich and fulfilling life.
11.8 Our work is so important and UNESCO can make so much difference that I hope we will focus on achieving  results in four key areas of education. First, we are committed to literacy and to providing a basic primary education for  every person in every remote corner of the world. Reading is the building block of all education; yet one in seven adults  in the world today cannot read. Illiteracy especially stifles the aspirations of women: two thirds of the nearly
900 million illiterate adults in the world are female. The ability to read and write gives people the freedom to learn  independently and the self-confidence to stand up for themselves. For people throughout the world, and especially for  women and girls, education is power – the power to control their own lives. Learning empowers women to ask  questions, to understand their rights, and to make their own decisions. In Kosovo, Albanian women are not only  learning to read and write, they are beginning to reverse decades of discrimination against women. Two years ago, only  a few women attended classes in the Windows for Life programme. Today, more than 2,000 women are learning to read  and cook and sew. Some are even discovering how to manage their own early childhood centre. They also learn about  marriage, women’s rights, and even how to deal with their mother-in-law. (I do not have that problem!) In Kosovo,  where many women used to sign their name only with a fingerprint, today they are proudly casting votes by writing on  a ballot paper.
11.9 And to prevent another generation of adult illiteracy, we must make a major commitment to primary  education for all children, especially girls. Worldwide, more than 100 million children do not have access to schools,  and 60% of them are little girls. In developing countries, one of every three children does not complete five years of  primary education. Lack of a primary education frequently has lifelong consequences. United Nations studies show that  illiterate girls marry as early as age 11 and may have up to seven children before they turn 18. Girls who go to school  are likely to wait to marry later and to have smaller, healthier families. Mothers with a secondary education have
36% lower child mortality rates than mothers with only a primary education. When women and girls go to school they  learn the skills they need to succeed in life, and the confidence they gain makes them the strongest advocates for their  children’s right to education.
11.10 UNESCO’s aptly-named Education for All initiative has an ambitious but I am convinced attainable goal of  ensuring universal primary education and expanding literacy worldwide by the year 2015. This programme closely  mirrors the goals of my husband’s “No Child Left Behind” initiative, which was passed by the United States Congress  two years ago. Through an insistence on results and accountability it seeks to ensure that every child gets a quality  education and that no child is left behind. Our close collaboration on these education initiatives will help both the
25  United States and UNESCO achieve our goals. Together we can bring learning and literacy to children across the world,  building the best possible foundation for freedom and peace.
11.11 One of the most inspiring places to witness the transformation that education brings is in Afghanistan. Three  years ago, 92% of girls did not attend school because the Taliban did not allow women to be educated. Today, nearly  four million children are in school, including more than a million girls. Young girls, who were not allowed to leave their  homes unless they were accompanied by a male relative, who had to hide their books under their burkas, are now  studying mathematics and science. As they learn new words and mathematical formulas, they are gaining a greater  respect for themselves. At the newly-reopened Sultana Razia School, girls now talk about their future, about becoming  doctors and teachers, and about rebuilding their country. One young girl said, “I want to become a lawyer, because I  want to bring justice and freedom to Afghanistan, especially for women”.
11.12 Children in Afghanistan are eager to learn, and yet one and a half million children cannot go to school  because there are not enough buildings or teachers. The number of school-age children has outpaced the number of  qualified teachers in many countries. My own country will need more than two million new teachers in the next decade.  Worldwide, 15 to 35 million more teachers will be required to achieve our goal of universal education by 2015. In  Afghanistan, where many teachers themselves have only a primary education, additional training is critical to the  success of the nation’s education system.
11.13 I am pleased today to announce that the United States Government is working to re-establish the American  School in Kabul, beginning next fall, for Afghan children and for children of international families there. Prior to the  Taliban, the American School was an outstanding institution of culture and education. Our new Ambassador-designee  to Afghanistan, Zal Khalizad, attended classes there as a young man. Because a large percentage of the student body  will be Afghan, the school will help both international and Afghan children to grow up learning and working together in  an environment of respect. The school is a symbol of my country’s ongoing commitment to Afghanistan and to the  critical role of education in rebuilding a society. In tandem with this project, I am working with our Government and the  private sector to develop a teacher-training institution that will help Afghanistan meet its educational needs by training  Afghan teachers, especially women. Both of these projects – the American School and the teacher-training institute –  are being organized through the US-Afghan Women’s Council, a public-private partnership established by Presidents  Bush and Karzai to help empower Afghan women in rebuilding their country.
11.14 UNESCO’s second educational priority must be quality education – education based in truth and tolerance.  The more children learn about other countries, faiths and cultures, the more likely they are to respect other people.  Education can help children see beyond a world of hate and hopelessness. UNESCO is doing wonderful work in this  area. A history project in the Balkans seeks to overcome centuries of stereotypes and division. In Iraq, UNESCO  Member States are helping to rid textbooks of the language of hate and propaganda. Children in the village of Ovitoto in  Namibia are learning about tolerance and how to resolve conflicts. New curriculum that focuses on democracy and  civics is being taught in 15 Namibian schools. In addition to class work, students are expected to attend village meetings  and talk with their parents about current events.
11.15 A continent away, children in the United States are learning about children in Pakistan through an email pen  pal programme. A United States initiative called Friendship through Education links American schools with schools in  the Middle East. Students write essays about their lives, their religion and their culture. And they build friendships and a  dialogue that teaches them to seek and listen to the opinions of others. Sara, an elementary student from North Carolina,  said, “It’s exciting to have a pen pal. He sent me a picture and he looks different because of his skin, but I don’t care  because we are really all the same. Maybe if we communicated with people from other countries, they would like us  more, and maybe we would like them more”.
11.16 The third way in which UNESCO can make a difference in the world is through post-conflict education, the  important work of rebuilding education systems in countries that have been affected by war and civil strife. In these  chaotic situations, the basic tools of education – schools, teachers, textbooks and supplies – are usually inadequate or  non-existent.
11.17 UNESCO has done valuable work rebuilding education in Uganda, Sierra Leone and Liberia, and your  collaboration can help change the future of children in Afghanistan and Iraq. Surely we can agree that rebuilding those  countries as secure, hopeful and self-governing nations is in all of our best interests, especially the best interests of the  people of Afghanistan and Iraq. The presence of a peaceful, stable Iraq at the heart of the Middle East will be a  powerful beacon for freedom – an example of hope – in that vital region. A recent Gallup survey found nearly two  thirds of Iraqis say ousting Saddam Hussein was worth the hardships they have experienced; an overwhelming majority  feels that Iraq will be better off in five years than it was before. Nowhere is this more obvious than in education. One
26  tragic legacy of Saddam Hussein’s rule is an overall adult illiteracy rate of 61%, and a staggering 77%, or three in four  women in Iraq, cannot read.
11.18 Our coalition forces are working with 36,000 local Iraqi workers to refurbish 1,600 schools across Iraq. Some  soldiers are calling in help from back home. Major Greg Softy of a Cavalry Regiment of the First Armoured Division  sent an email to friends and family to request school supplies and other items for Iraqi children, and a group of citizens  in St Paul, Minnesota, has sent dozens of packages and set up a website to encourage others to contribute. More than
80% of Iraq’s primary and secondary schools and all but two universities have now reopened. Students and teachers are  free to discuss topics that were once forbidden. They no longer fear that secret police are sitting in their classrooms to  monitor their studies. Iraqis are experiencing the freedom that education brings. Next month, five million students will  receive their own textbooks free of Ba’athist propaganda thanks to a UNESCO programme that reviews textbooks and  removes the language of hate and division. Today, children and adults are discovering Iraq’s best writers and poets in  books once banned. Professors, chosen through open staff elections, are teaching lessons in freedom and human rights.  These stories of progress inspire us to eradicate illiteracy, recruit and train more teachers and create learning  environments that teach the values of tolerance, democracy and peace.
11.19 Finally, and importantly, I hope UNESCO will emphasize education programmes that can literally make a  life or death difference. For those affected by HIV and AIDS, education is the key to survival. More than 10 million  children under age 15 have been orphaned by AIDS. Many have lost not only their parents and their loved ones, but also  their teachers. Education can teach these children the facts about AIDS, and the skills they will need to support  themselves. In July, I visited the Botswana-Baylor Children’s Clinic that provides treatment for families affected by  HIV and AIDS. I painted figures called “Hope dolls” with the children. The children create and decorate these dolls,  then use them to tell their stories about living with AIDS. The dolls are then shipped to other clinics and children  throughout the world, ambassadors to let other AIDS victims know that they are not alone in living with this terrible  disease. The dolls are the storytellers of hope and survival, spreading the message: “I know there is Hope because I  have seen her with my own eyes.”
11.20 I am proud that President Bush has made a massive commitment – $15 billion – to fight this humanitarian  crisis. This is the largest single commitment of funds in history for an international public health initiative on a specific  disease, and I am very proud of my husband’s leadership to help the children of the world. In collaboration with  UNESCO, the United States will work to build more centres of care and education for those afflicted with HIV and  AIDS.
11.21 By directing our resources towards these four priorities – basic literacy and primary education, education in  tolerance, post-conflict education and AIDS/HIV education – UNESCO will be acting to fulfil its most important  purpose and improving millions of lives. Today, in unity with every nation here, the United States commits itself to the  promise of education for every man, woman and child. This year my country will invest $333 million in primary,  secondary and college education in developing nations. Our new Millennium Challenge Account increases our overall  development assistance by 50%. The United States is committed to working in and with the world to offer greater  education and opportunity – and thus a brighter future – for all people.
11.22 The United States also shares UNESCO’s goals of extending the benefits of science and technology to all  nations. We will continue to work closely with Member States on joint research to foster scientific and sensible  environmental policy and to monitor environmental changes around the world.
11.23 The United States also shares UNESCO’s goals of preserving and promoting cultural heritage through  museums and humanities research. The respect we desire as individuals and nations extends to a respect for our past –  the rich heritage that has made the nations and peoples of the world what we are today. The arts are our most human  expressions, the universal language of our hearts and souls. Art and music give us comfort and joy as they enrich our  lives. When Afghanistan was liberated from the Taliban, one of the first sounds heard in the celebrations in the streets  was the sound of music. And music has always been a significant part of Iraq’s culture. During Saddam Hussein’s rule,  many musicians were forced to sell their instruments to support their families. The United States National Endowment  for the Arts has collected more than 300 instruments from orchestras around the United States to put the makings of  music back in the hands of Iraqi artists and students. And soon we will celebrate Iraq’s rich culture when the Iraq  National Symphony Orchestra performs with the American National Symphony Orchestra at the Kennedy Center in  Washington, D.C.
11.24 Afghanistan was once a crossroads of the world. Its rich heritage includes the influence of many cultures and  religions, from Persians to Buddhists. UNESCO is continuing its work to conserve the remains of the great stone  Buddhas that were destroyed by the Taliban. In Iraq, teams from UNESCO have worked with many United States  organizations, from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Endowment for the Arts to the
27  Library of Congress and the Department of State, to help Iraq preserve its antiquities, most of which have now been  recovered. And as we respect and cherish our shared past, we teach our children important lessons about our future. As  we move forward, UNESCO must be a powerful voice for independence of the press and freedom of expression.  Human beings achieve our full potential only when we are free – free to speak our minds and debate ideas, free to  worship as we choose, free to listen to those who have different values and beliefs.
11.25 Today I look at the world and I see great opportunities for the advancement of human rights and human  freedom. My fellow delegates, I challenge all of us to work together to make this a Decade of Literacy and a Century of  Liberty. Literacy and liberty are natural allies, and they are the core mission of UNESCO. Before us are both  opportunities and obligations. We must educate every person in reading and writing and their basic human rights. We  must preserve the cultural heritage of our past, and illuminate a future of scientific advance and discovery with careful  ethics and a reverence for the dignity of life.
11.26 Always, through all of our programmes, we must teach the world’s children to respect human life – their own  lives and the lives of others. Every parent, every teacher, every leader has a responsibility to condemn the terrible  tragedy of men, women and children killing themselves to kill others. As President Bush has said, “All fathers and  mothers, in all societies, want their children to be educated and to live free from poverty and violence. No nation owns  these aspirations, and no nation is exempt from them.” As the civilized world stands against terror, UNESCO’s work  can make an enormous difference. Together we can construct, as UNESCO’s Constitution states, the defences of peace  in the minds of men. Thank you all very much.  (Applause)
12. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the First Lady of the United States of America for the visit she  has paid to us. I would ask you to please remain seated until our meeting resumes.  (The meeting is suspended while Ms Bush is escorted from the room)  ÉLECTION DES VICE-PRÉSIDENTS DE LA CONFÉRENCE GÉNÉRALE  ELECTION OF THE VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  ELECCIÓN DE LOS VICEPRESIDENTES DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  ВЫБОРЫ ЗАМЕСТИТЕЛЕЙ ПРЕДСЕДАТЕЛЯ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  א א א  א 选举大会副主席
13. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Mesdames et Messieurs, nous poursuivons maintenant l’examen du point 1.5 qui concerne les élections des  vice-présidents de la Conférence générale et des présidents des commissions et comités de cette 32e session de la  Conférence. Les documents pertinents sont le 32 C/NOM/1 et son Addendum. Je donne donc la parole à  S. E. M. l’Ambassadeur Barros Valero, président du Comité des candidatures, qui va nous présenter les  recommandations du Comité concernant les postes de vice-présidents de la Conférence générale. Monsieur Barros  Valero, vous avez la parole.
(14.1) M. BARROS VALERO (Mexique), président du Comité des candidatures (traduit de l’espagnol) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, avant d’examiner le point 1.5 de l’ordre du jour,  permettez-moi de vous féliciter pour votre élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale à sa 32e session. Monsieur le  Président, nous tous qui avons eu le privilège de travailler avec vous connaissons bien votre engagement sincère en faveur  de l’éducation, votre volonté de servir, votre haute intelligence et vos qualités diplomatiques et c’est pourquoi nous  sommes certains que, sous votre conduite, notre Organisation fera, lors de cette 32e session de la Conférence générale, des  progrès décisifs sur la voie de la réalisation de nos objectifs.
(14.2) Monsieur le Président, le Comité des candidatures a recommandé, lors de sa séance de ce matin, d’élire aux  postes de vice-présidents de la 32e session de la Conférence générale les chefs de délégation des États membres appartenant  aux groupes électoraux suivants : groupe I : Canada, France, Italie, Luxembourg et Pays-Bas. Le groupe électoral I,  Monsieur le Président, a proposé de communiquer bientôt des renseignements concernant le poste de sixième vice- président de ce groupe électoral. Le groupe II sera représenté par les pays suivants : Azerbaïdjan, Croatie, Lituanie,  Pologne, Serbie-et-Monténégro et Ukraine. Le groupe III par les pays suivants : Argentine, Barbade, Brésil, Jamaïque,  Nicaragua et Uruguay. Le groupe IV par les pays suivants : Afghanistan, Australie, Chine, Inde, Japon et République  démocratique populaire lao. Le groupe V.a par les pays suivants : Congo, Gambie, Guinée-Bissau, Maurice, Rwanda et  Swaziland. Le groupe 5.b par les pays suivants : Égypte, Oman, Qatar, Soudan, Tunisie et Yémen. Telle est la  recommandation du Comité des candidatures que je vous soumets, Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne les vice- présidents de la 32e session de la Conférence générale.
15. Le PRÉSIDENT :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Puis-je considérer que les chefs de délégation des États membres dont les noms  viennent d’être cités sont élus vice-présidents de la Conférence générale ? Je ne vois pas d’objection. Je considère donc  que cette proposition est adoptée.  CONSTITUTION DES COMITÉS ET COMMISSIONS  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS  CONSTITUCIÓN DE LOS COMITÉS Y LAS COMISIONES  УТВЕРЖДЕНИЕ КОМИТЕТОВ И КОМИССИЙ   א 成立各个委员会
16. Le PRÉSIDENT :  Chers délégués, nous devons à présent élire les présidents des commissions et comités de la 32e session de la  Conférence générale. Si vous en êtes d’accord, nous procéderons à un examen global des recommandations du Comité  des candidatures concernant les commissions. À cet effet, je donne la parole au Président du Comité des candidatures  afin qu’il nous présente les recommandations du Comité concernant les postes de président des six commissions.  Monsieur le Président, vous avez la parole.
(17) M. BARROS VALERO (Mexique), président du Comité des candidatures (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. À la réunion de ce matin, le Comité des candidatures a décidé de recommander à  l’unanimité d’élire les personnalités suivantes comme présidents des commissions du programme et de la Commission  administrative : comme président de la Commission I, M. José Israël Vargas, du Brésil ; comme présidente de la  Commission II, Mme Zobaïda Jalal, du Pakistan ; comme président de la Commission III, M. Tapio Markkanen, de la  Finlande ; comme président de la Commission IV, M. Olabiyi Yaï, du Bénin ; comme président de la Commission V,  M. Abdelwahab Bouhdiba, de la Tunisie ; et comme président de la Commission administrative, M. Vladimir Kalamonov,  de la Fédération de Russie. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
18.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. S’il n’y a pas d’objection, je déclare M. José Israël Vargas du Brésil  élu président de la Commission I, Madame Zobaïda Jalal du Pakistan élue présidente de la Commission II, M. Tapio
29  Markkanen de la Finlande élu président de la Commission III, M. Olabiyi Yaï du Bénin élu au poste de président de la  Commission IV, M. Abdelwahab Bouhdiba de la Tunisie élu président de la Commission V et enfin M.  Vladimir  Kalamanov de la Fédération de Russie élu au poste de président de la Commission administrative. Mesdames et  Messieurs, je vous présente toutes mes félicitations.
18.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, maintenant que sont élus les six présidents des commissions ainsi que les présidents  du Comité des candidatures et du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, il reste à élire le Président du Comité juridique,  ce qui complètera le Bureau de la Conférence générale. Pour ce faire, j’invite maintenant le Secrétaire de la Conférence  générale à nous communiquer des informations concernant la composition de ce dernier Comité.
19. Le SECRÉTAIRE :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Comme vous le savez, conformément au Règlement intérieur de la Conférence  générale, le Comité juridique constitué pour une session de la Conférence est élu par elle à sa session précédente. Le  Comité juridique constitué pour la 32e session qui s’est ouverte aujourd’hui a donc été élu à la 31e session en 2001, et je  vais vous donner lecture de la liste des États membres dont il se compose : Algérie, Allemagne, Argentine, Cameroun,  Chili, Colombie, Côte d’Ivoire, Égypte, Fédération de Russie, France, Ghana, Guatemala, République islamique d’Iran,  Japon, Liban, Pays-Bas, Portugal, République arabe syrienne, République tchèque, Royaume-Uni et Venezuela. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
20.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Secrétaire. Permettez-moi de vous rappeler à ce sujet que conformément à  l’article 36.2 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, le Comité juridique doit élire son président. J’invite  donc les membres du Comité à se réunir à 17 h 30 dans la salle VI. Je vous remercie.
20.2 Je donne maintenant la parole à la Présidente du Conseil exécutif.
21. Mme BENNANI (Maroc), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. C’est la première fois que je prends la parole depuis que vous avez pris  possession de ce marteau à la fois magique et redoutable ; aussi, permettez-moi de vous présenter en mon nom  personnel et au nom du Conseil exécutif mes plus chaleureuses félicitations. Beaucoup de personnes ici dans cette salle  vous connaissent. Vous êtes à l’UNESCO depuis longtemps et vous vous êtes fait remarquer par vos nombreuses  qualités. Je voudrais souligner une chose qui n’est peut-être pas connue de tout le monde, c’est que c’est la première  fois dans l’histoire des élections à la présidence de la Conférence générale que nous avons un candidat de consensus.  Dès que vous l’avez annoncée, l’unanimité s’est faite autour de votre candidature, ce qui n’a rien d’étonnant étant  donné vos nombreuses qualités professionnelles, intellectuelles, humaines, votre sagesse et votre sens de la diplomatie.  Donc je vous félicite personnellement, je félicite le Nigéria, je félicite l’Afrique et je félicite l’UNESCO de vous avoir  élu. Je suis convaincue que vous saurez, à partir de cette haute responsabilité qui vous échoit, porter encore plus haut et  fort les idéaux pour lesquels nous nous battons tous. Le rideau se lève aujourd’hui sur une aube nouvelle et vous êtes le  maître de cérémonie. Nous sommes à votre écoute pour savoir ce que nous allons faire dans la suite de cette 32e session  de la Conférence générale.  ADMISSION D’OBSERVATEURS D’ORGANISATIONS NON GOUVERNEMENTALES  ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM  NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  ADMISIÓN DE OBSERVADORES DE ORGANIZACIONES NO GUBERNAMENTALES  ДОПУСК НАБЛЮДАТЕЛЕЙ НЕПРАВИТЕЛЬСТВЕННЫХ ОРГАНИЗАЦИЙ   א 接纳各个非政府组织的观察员
22.1 Mme BENNANI (Maroc), présidente du Conseil exécutif :  En ce qui me concerne, je passe à la présentation du point 1.7, comme vous m’avez conseillé de le faire, mais  je précise à l’adresse des interprètes que je vais continuer en espagnol.   (La Présidente du Conseil exécutif poursuit en espagnol)
(22.2) (traduit de l’espagnol) Nous passons donc au point 1.7 relatif à l’admission à la 32e session de la Conférence  générale d’observateurs d’organisations non gouvernementales (autres que celles qui entretiennent des relations formelles  avec l’UNESCO), de fondations et autres institutions similaires entretenant des relations officielles, et d’autres  organisations internationales. C’est un titre long mais c’est celui du point 1.7. À cet égard, je tiens à vous informer que le  Conseil exécutif, se référant à l’article 7 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, a examiné à sa 167e session le  document 167 EX.27 et Addendum relatif aux demandes d’organisations non gouvernementales (autres que celles  entretenant des relations formelles avec l’UNESCO), de fondations et autres institutions similaires entretenant des relations  officielles ainsi que celles d’autres organisations internationales désireuses de se faire représenter par des observateurs à la
32e session de la Conférence générale. Par sa décision 167 EX/6.5, le Conseil exécutif a recommandé leur admission à la  Conférence générale.
(22.3) Monsieur le Président, au nom du Conseil exécutif, je recommande que les organisations dont le nom figure dans  le document 32 C/10 et Addendum soient admises en qualité d’observateurs à cette 32e session de la Conférence générale.  Je vous remercie.
23. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much, Madam Chairperson. I am very grateful for your usual kind remarks and comments. I  now wish to submit this recommendation to the approval of the General Conference. If I see no objections I will take it  that the recommendations is adopted unanimously. Thank you.  DEMANDE D’ADMISSION DE LA PALESTINE À L’UNESCO   REQUEST FOR ADMISSION OF PALESTINE TO UNESCO  SOLICITUD DE ADMISIÓN DE PALESTINA EN LA UNESCO  ПРОСЬБА ПАЛЕСТИНЫ О ПРИЕМЕ В ЮНЕСКО  א  א 请求接纳巴勒斯坦为教科文组织成员
24. The PRESIDENT:  Now we have before us item 9.1 of the agenda, Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO. The  relevant document for your consideration is document 32 C/30. In this regard I wish to give the floor once more to the  Chairperson of the Executive Board to present the Board’s recommendations on the subject. Ms Aziza Bennani, you  have the floor.
25. Mme BENNANI (Maroc), présidente du Conseil exécutif :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. En ce qui concerne le point 9.1, je voudrais vous informer que le Conseil  exécutif a examiné à sa 167e session la demande d’admission de la Palestine à l’UNESCO, en rappelant ses décisions  antérieures. Par sa décision 167 EX/8.5, le Conseil a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter un projet de  résolution exprimant, entre autres, son espoir de pouvoir examiner favorablement ce point à sa 33e session. Le texte de  ce projet de résolution est contenu dans le document 32 C/30. Monsieur le Président, en vous présentant ce projet de  résolution, je me permets d’exprimer l’espoir que notre ultime objectif, qui est la paix, devienne, dans un proche avenir,  une réalité pour tous. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
26. The PRESIDENT:   Thank you very much Madam Chairperson. If I see no objections, may I consider that the General  Conference approves the draft resolution contained in document 32 C/30? I give the floor to South Africa.
27. Mr ASMAL (South Africa):  I think that the Executive Board, Mr President, is prevaricating on this. It is postponing an issue which it  should be grappling with. Palestine is recognized by the African Union and was recognized by the Organization of  African Unity. There is no reason or basis for excluding Palestine from membership of UNESCO, being committed to  the development of education, science and culture and particularly the right to self-determination. We are violating the  right of self-determination by excluding Palestine and we should admit Palestine to UNESCO now.  (Applause)
28.1 The PRESIDENT:  Head of the delegation of South Africa, what you have done is to support the recommendation that is before  you, so I may take it now that this is unanimously adopted.
28.2 Thank you. The draft resolution is adopted.
28.3 Do any heads of delegation wish to take the floor on this subject? I see none. I understand that neither the  Observer for Palestine nor the head of delegation of Israel has indicated a wish to speak.  PREMIER RAPPORT DU COMITÉ DE VÉRIFICATION DES POUVOIRS   FIRST REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  PRIMER INFORME DEL COMITÉ DE VERIFICACIÓN DE PODERES  ПЕРВЫЙ ДОКЛАД КОМИТЕТА ПО ПРОВЕРКЕ ПОЛНОМОЧИЙ  א א  א 全权证书委员会的第一次报告
29. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, let us now examine the first report of the Credentials Committee. In the first place,  permit me to congratulate Mr. Hery-Zo Ralambomahay of Madagascar on his election as Chairperson of the  Committee. Congratulations, Sir. You have the floor now, Mr Chairperson.
30.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar), président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord au nom du Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs et en mon nom personnel, de féliciter M. Michael Abiola Omolewa pour son élection à la présidence de la  Conférence générale. Le considérant davantage comme un grand frère et un ami, je forme des vœux pour que cette  session de la Conférence se déroule dans les meilleures conditions.
30.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, à sa première séance plénière, tenue le 29 septembre 2003, la  Conférence générale de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation la science et la culture a, conformément aux  articles 26 et 32 de son Règlement intérieur, constitué pour sa 32e session, un Comité de vérification des pouvoirs,  composé des États membres suivants : Arabie saoudite, Azerbaïdjan, Costa Rica, El Salvador, France, Madagascar,  Mozambique, Oman et République démocratique populaire lao. Le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs a tenu sa  première séance ce même jour à midi. Le Comité a élu à sa présidence M. Hery-Zo Ralambomahay, représentant de  Madagascar au Conseil exécutif de l’UNESCO. À la demande du Président, le Conseiller juridique a informé le Comité  des critères à appliquer pour décider de la validité des pouvoirs présentés aux termes de l’article 23 du Règlement  intérieur de la Conférence générale. Cet article dispose que les pouvoirs des délégués et des suppléants émanant soit du  chef de l’État ou du gouvernement, soit du ministre des affaires étrangères, ou d’un autre ministre autorisé par celui-ci à  délivrer des pleins pouvoirs. Le Conseiller juridique a également expliqué la signification de l’expression « pouvoirs  provisoires » utilisée par le Secrétariat et ce qu’elle impliquait.
30.3 Le Secrétariat a ensuite informé le Comité de l’état des pouvoirs qu’il avait reçus jusqu’alors. Le Comité a  conclu que les pouvoirs des États membres suivants avaient été délivrés en conformité avec l’article 23 du Règlement  intérieur de la Conférence générale, c’est à dire qu’ils émanaient soit du chef de l’État ou du gouvernement, soit du  ministre des affaires étrangères ou d’un autre ministre autorisé par celui-ci à délivrer des pleins pouvoirs. Il a en  conséquence considéré que les délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent étaient dûment accréditées. Ces  pays sont les suivants : Afghanistan, Afrique du Sud, Allemagne, Angola, Arabie saoudite, Arménie, Australie,  Autriche, Azerbaïdjan, Bahamas, Bahreïn, Bangladesh, Barbade, Bélarus, Belgique, Belize, Bénin, Bhoutan, Bulgarie,  Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodge, Chine, Chypre, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatie, Cuba, Danemark, Dominique,  Égypte, El Salvador, Équateur, Érythrée, Espagne, Éthiopie, ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, Finlande,  France, Gabon, Gambie, Géorgie, Grèce, Guinée, Guinée équatoriale, Guyana, Honduras, Iles Salomon, Inde, Iraq,  Islande, Israël, Italie, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne, Jamaïque, Japon, Jordanie, Kenya, Kiribati, Koweït, Lesotho, Lettonie,  Lituanie, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Maroc, Maurice, Mauritanie, Mexique, Mongolie,  Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibie, Népal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigéria, Nioué, Nouvelle-Zélande, Oman, Ouganda,  Ouzbékistan, Pakistan, Palaos, Panama, Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, Paraguay, Pays-Pas, Philippines, Portugal,  République arabe syrienne, République centrafricaine, République de Corée, République démocratique populaire lao,  République populaire démocratique de Corée, République tchèque, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Roumanie, Rwanda,  Saint-Marin, Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines, Sainte-Lucie, Samoa, Sénégal, Serbie-et-Monténégro, Seychelles,  Slovaquie, Soudan, Sri Lanka, Suède, Suisse, Suriname, Swaziland, Togo, Tonga, Trinité-et-Tobago, Turkménistan,  Turquie, Ukraine, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yémen, Zambie et Zimbabwe. Le Comité recommande que les
32  délégations des États membres susmentionnées soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la 32e session de la  Conférence générale.
30.4 Les délégations des États membres dont les noms s’affichent ont présenté des pouvoirs sous la forme de notes,  de lettres ou d’autres documents émanant d’un ministre autre que le ministre des affaires étrangères et non autorisé à cet  effet par ce dernier, ou du chef d’une mission diplomatique, d’un délégué permanent auprès de l’UNESCO ou d’un haut  fonctionnaire du gouvernement. Ces pays sont les suivants : Albanie, Algérie, Andorre, Argentine, Bolivie, Bosnie- Herzégovine, Botswana, Brésil, Cameroun, Canada, Cap-Vert, Chili, Comores, Costa Rica, Émirats Arabes Unis,  Estonie, Fédération de Russie, Fidji, Ghana, Grenade, Guatemala, Haïti, Hongrie, Indonésie, Iran (République  islamique d’), Irlande, Kazakhstan, Kirghizistan, Liban, Malaisie, Monaco, Norvège, Pérou, Pologne, Qatar, République  de Moldova, République démocratique du Congo, République dominicaine, Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et  d’Irlande du Nord, Saint-Kitts-et-Nevis, Sao Tomé-et-Principe, Sierra Leone, Slovénie, Somalie, Tadjikistan, Tchad,  Thaïlande et Tunisie. Le Comité propose que ces notes, lettres et autres documents soient acceptés à titre de pouvoirs  provisoires des délégations des États membres concernées, sous réserve que celles-ci présentent ultérieurement des  pouvoirs en bonne et due forme, et que, dans l’intervalle, ces délégations soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la
32e session de la Conférence générale.
30.5 Des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont été présentés par les délégations de membres associés des Antilles  néerlandaises et des Iles Vierges britanniques. Le Comité a en outre reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme établis au  nom des délégations d’observateurs de Singapour et du Saint-Siège, ainsi que des pouvoirs provisoires établis au nom  de la délégation des États-Unis d’Amérique, observateur. Le Comité propose que ces pouvoirs soient également  acceptés.
30.6 Les délégations des pays dont les noms s’affichent n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs à notre Comité. Ces  pays sont les suivants : Antigua-et-Barbuda, Djibouti, Guinée-Bissau, Iles Cook, Iles Marshall, Libéria, Malte,  Micronésie (États fédérés de), Nauru, Timor-Leste, Tuvalu et Vanuatu. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
31. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much Mr. Chairperson, I would like to extend to you my congratulations for the effective  and efficient work you and your Committee have done. Congratulations. Now I would like to ask if there are comments  on this report from Member States. Afghanistan. Is there any other country that wishes to speak, so that we can make a  list? Afghanistan and Colombia. I shall give the floor to Afghanistan and Colombia and then close the list.
32. Mr AZIZ (Afghanistan):  Mr President, first and foremost, on behalf of the Afghan delegation, I would also like to congratulate you on  your unanimous election as President of the 32nd session of the General Conference. I would also like to congratulate  other colleagues, other friends and heads of delegation who have been selected and approved by the General  Conference as Vice-Presidents of the 32nd session of the General Conference. I would like as well to congratulate the  chairpersons of the different committees and commissions including the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  whom I am also addressing as a friend. Mr. President, just two or three days ago, I submitted to the relevant unit of the  General Conference the list of the members of the delegation from Afghanistan, credentials signed by His Excellency  President Karzai as well as by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
33. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador of Afghanistan. We will respond to that very shortly, but  let us first of all listen to the delegation of Colombia. Delegation of Colombia, you have the floor.
(34) Mme VELEZ JARA (Colombie) (traduit de l’espagnol) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais me joindre aux paroles de notre collègue et vous féliciter au nom de la  délégation de Colombie pour votre élection à ces hautes fonctions. D’après nos informations, c’est la seule fois où toutes  les nations ont voté de manière unanime, afin d’honorer ainsi celui qui va diriger nos travaux lors de cette Conférence  générale. Nous vous adressons nos félicitations et vous souhaitons plein succès dans votre tâche, pour le bon déroulement
33  de la Conférence générale. D’autre part, je voudrais vous signaler que vendredi dernier 19 septembre, en présentant mes  lettres de créance en ma qualité de nouvelle déléguée permanente de mon pays, j’ai remis aussi au Directeur général les  lettres de Mme la Ministre des affaires étrangères dans lesquelles elle donnait la liste des personnes qui constituent notre  délégation. Je vous prie de bien vouloir les demander au Directeur général. Je vous remercie.
35. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to invite the representative of the Director-General to respond to those two issues raised by  Afghanistan and Colombia. Representative of the Director-General, you have the floor.
36. M. SAYYAD, sous-directeur général pour les relations extérieures et la coopération :  Monsieur le Président, aucun problème ne se pose au stade actuel. Toutes les lettres et demandes doivent  passer devant le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs. Il n’y a pas d’inquiétude à avoir ; le processus est en marche et le  Comité va revenir ici dans cette salle pour annoncer la liste définitive. Je vous remercie.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Mr Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, do you wish to respond? You have the  floor.
38. M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar), président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs :   Peut-être, Excellence, la liste que nous avons affichée est-elle passée trop vite. Cela étant, je peux vous assurer  que l’Afghanistan et la Colombie ont les pouvoirs requis pour siéger à la 32e session de la Conférence générale. Nous  les avons bien reçus. Merci.
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  May I ask if the distinguished representatives of Afghanistan and Colombia are satisfied with the response  and the process? I see that you are both in agreement. Thank you very much.
39.2 As I see no other objections, I shall consider that the General Conference takes note of this first report of the  Credentials Committee and that the related issues will be addressed.  CONCLUSIONS DU FORUM DES JEUNES  CONCLUSIONS OF THE YOUTH FORUM  CONCLUSIONES DEL FORO DE LA JUVENTUD  ИТОГИ МОЛОДЕЖНОГО ФОРУМА  א  א 青年论坛结束
40. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I am now pleased to give the floor to Miss Sekitoleko, Chairperson of the Youth  Forum, who will present to us the main conclusions of the Forum. As you are all aware, the Youth Forum was held at  UNESCO Headquarters from 26 to 28 September. During these three days, 183 young representatives of 154 countries  were able to exchange their views, share their experiences and identify proposals and solutions for the future. During  this time the Forum focused on three major items closely related to UNESCO’s mandate – education for sustainable  development, preventive education in the field of health, and communication and cooperation. Ms Chairperson, I give  you the floor.
41.1 Ms SEKITOLEKO (Uganda), Chairperson of the Youth Forum:  Good afternoon. My name is Juliet Sekitoleko. I am a Member of Parliament in Uganda, representing youth,  and it is my privilege to be the Chairperson of the Youth Forum.  (Applause)  Ladies and gentlemen, young people are key stakeholders in the present. We are greatly affected by critical global  challenges, and therefore can be agents for social change. It is important to note that we make up at least half of the  population of our planet.
41.2 Youth are indeed the human face of globalization. For the last three days, the third Youth Forum of the
32nd session of the General Conference united 104 Member States, 22 non-governmental organizations and one  Observer State. The Forum is a continuation of UNESCO’s positive involvement with young people. There were two  critical concerns which were discussed in the Forum, for which concrete suggestions for action were made to UNESCO.
41.3 First, we discussed education for sustainable development with a particular focus on freshwater management.  Building the capacity of young people to be custodians and effective managers of water resources is critical. As conflict  can be a cause of water scarcity, and water is at the origin of many conflicts, we believe that peace education and water  education should be closely linked to promote cooperation.
41.4 Secondly, we discussed the importance of preventive education on the subject of HIV/AIDS. One in two of  all new infections occur in 15 to 24 year-olds, nearly 7,000 youths a day, worldwide. In this context, and working with  different cultures and religious groups, we proposed formal and informal educational strategies for UNESCO, including  curriculum development, life skills, peer-to-peer education, and awareness campaigns (for example, using youth media,  comics, talk-back radio and drama).
41.5 Ladies and gentlemen, many countries, we believe, do not have the political will to involve young people in  decision-making, as partners in their country’s development. As the youngest Member of Parliament in my country, and  a member of my Government’s delegation to this Conference, I am personally committed to increasing youth  participation in development. The Youth Forum has given me new hope to pursue this goal. Now, I would like to invite  our Rapporteur from Australia to review the third area of our discussion. I thank you.
42.1 Mr MORAITIS (Australia) Rapporteur of the Youth Forum:  Ladies and gentlemen, the Youth Forum was indeed a success. But UNESCO’s commitment to youth must  be more than three days long. Working with youth must be a focus 365 days a year. Our third area of discussion focused  on ways to improve such communication and collaboration. Firstly, at the national level, where most of UNESCO’s  programmes are implemented, the Youth Forum proposed that National Commissions engage with youth more  effectively through the creation of permanent board members or representative roles, formal consultations and the  establishment of affiliated Youth Networks.
42.2 Secondly, at the international level, the Youth Forum stressed the importance of and called for additional  resources for, UNESCO’s Section for Youth. We hope that UNESCO will develop a major research project to  understand the role and needs of young people in international development. We expect funding to be set aside for  youth-initiated projects. And we propose new programmes to support youth-focused media and communication.
42.3 Thirdly, regarding the Youth Forum itself, we strongly encourage institutionalizing the Forum as an integral  feature of the General Conference and including it in the regular budget. This will allow for better planning and more  effective follow-up. All countries should send delegates to the Youth Forum, and they should participate in decisions on  youth at UNESCO’s other bodies, including the General Conference. We delegates to the third Youth Forum commit  ourselves to continuing to take local action and remain in global communication with UNESCO.
42.4 Young people lie at the very heart of UNESCO’s important mission – we are the students, technical and  scientific innovators, and creators and consumers of culture. This mission of UNESCO can only be realized if UNESCO  listens to our vision, harnesses our energy, responds to our needs and supports our action. UNESCO has already taken  steps towards the meaningful inclusion of young people within its programmes, but these need to be significantly  enhanced and expanded at every level. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention today and good  luck. Thank you.  (Applause)
43.1 Mr PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much for your report. Now ladies and gentlemen, may I suggest that the General Conference  takes note of the report of the Youth Forum?
43.2 I see no objections. It is so decided.
43.3 Do any delegations wish to make a statement? I give the floor to Australia.
44. Mr WILTSHIRE (Australia):  Thank you very much, Mr President, and as it is the first time Australia has spoken, may we congratulate you  on your election. It could not have happened to a nicer guy, and we are delighted with your appointment. Mr President,  Australia would like to thank the delegates to the Youth Forum for the excellent report they have presented to us. We  would like particularly to thank the Director-General for organizing the Youth Forum and in particular the theme  “UNESCO and Youth: a mutual commitment”, which sends out a very important message. I would like personally to  thank Mr Stany Kol and the Secretariat of the General Conference for helping to organize and facilitate the Youth  Forum. It is indeed a very, very important element. Mr President, I notice in the report of the Youth Forum which has
35  been distributed, that the young people have called for the Youth Forum to be institutionalized as a part of the General  Conference. I think this is a very logical step. We have now had three Youth Forums. The first one was a very good  experiment. The second one became even better and it is clear that this third Youth Forum has indeed been a great  success, and the recommendations will be very helpful to UNESCO in its future planning. So the next logical step  would be for us to see it as an integrated component of the General Conference, and Australia would like to request the  Director-General to investigate this possibility to see whether in fact this cannot be implemented, perhaps in document
33 C/5. Thank you very much, Mr President.
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Australia. Iceland, you now have the floor.
46. Mr EINARSSON (Iceland):  Thank you Mr President, and may I also use this opportunity to congratulate you and us on your election,  Mr Omolewa. I would also like to use the opportunity to stress the importance of the Youth Forum, not for the  youngsters but for us all. The Youth Forum, I think, cannot be abolished. It is on its way, hopefully, to becoming an  institution, as Mr Wiltshire said. And especially I would like to stress another point in the report from the Youth Forum.  That is to encourage governments to incorporate youth in the UNESCO National Commissions. Thank you very much.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Iceland. We will ensure that your comments are  reflected in our reports. We have now come to the end of the second plenary meeting of this General Conference. I shall  adjourn the meeting, which will resume tomorrow morning at ten o’clock. I would like to plead with every member to  be punctual so that we can continue our business. I wish you a good evening. The meeting is adjourned.     La séance est levée à 17 heures   The meeting rose at 5 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 17.00   Заседание закрывается в 17.00  א א٥,٠٠א    会议于 17 时结束