421  Seizième séance plénière
10 octobre 2003 à 17 h 40  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Sixteenth plenary meeting
422  INSCRIPTION D’UN NOUVEAU POINT À L’ORDRE DU JOUR   INCLUSION OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENDA  INTRODUCCIÓN DE UN NUEVO PUNTO EN EL ORDEN DEL DÍA  ВКЛЮЧЕНИЕ НОВОГО ПУНКТА В ПОВЕСТКУ ДНЯ  א  א 在议程中加入新项目
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegation, dear colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I should now like  to declare open the sixteenth plenary meeting – a very eagerly awaited meeting, judging by your enthusiasm,  punctuality and attendance. Dear colleagues, before turning to the item concerning the election of Members of the  Executive Board, I would like to inform you that the General Committee held its fourth meeting this morning.
1.2 Following this meeting, the Bureau recommends to the General Conference to include a supplementary item  in its agenda namely: “Number of members of the Legal Committee”. It is proposed that this item be numbered 7.8.  May I remind you that, according to Rule 15 of our Rules of Procedure, new items of an important and urgent character  may be added to the agenda by approval of a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting. Are there any  objections to the inclusion of this new item entitled “Number of members of the Legal Committee” in our agenda? I see  no objection. It is so decided.
1.3 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I would like to indicate that, if a draft resolution is presented under this  item, it should be submitted for examination by the Legal Committee.   ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX (suite)  ORGANIZATION OF WORK (continued)  ORGANIZACIÓN DE LOS TRABAJOS (continuación)  ОРГАНИЗАЦИЯ РАБОТЫ (продолжение)  )(א   工作安排（续）
2. The PRESIDENT:  Furthermore, the General Committee recommends that the General Conference approve the timetable for the  final phase of our work for the period beginning with the eighteenth meeting on Wednesday, 15 October afternoon and  ending with the closing meeting of the General Conference on Friday, 17 October. All the details of this calendar can be  found in document 32 C/INF/23. I see that there is no objection.  ELECTION DE MEMBRES DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  ELECCIÓN DE  MIEMBROS DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO  ВЫБОРЫ ЧЛЕНОВ ИСПОЛНИТЕЛЬНОГО СОВЕТА  א א  א 选举执行局委员
3. The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, dear colleagues, as you know the election of Members of the Executive Board took  place today in Room V under the supervision of Ambassador Zhang Xuezhong from China, Vice-President of the  General Conference. I understand that this ballot has taken place in conformity with the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference and with a considerable turnout. As you all know, one Member State from Group IV withdrew its  candidature yesterday evening. Ladies and gentlemen, before I read out, by electoral group, the results of today’s ballot  in the election of Members of the Executive Board, I shall give the floor to the Returning Officer, Ambassador Zhang  Xuezhong of China, Vice-President of the General Conference, who supervised the elections. You have the floor,  Ambassador.
(4.1) M. ZHANG Xuezhong (Chine), président du bureau de vote (traduit du chinois) :  Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je vous remercie tout d’abord d’avoir proposé  de me confier la présidence du bureau de vote pour l’élection de membres du Conseil exécutif à la présente session de la  Conférence générale.
(4.2) Outre moi-même, le bureau se composait de six scrutateurs. Nous avons pu nous acquitter de notre tâche sans  le moindre incident, dans une entente parfaite et une atmosphère tout à fait plaisante et détendue. Un seul tour de scrutin a  été cette fois-ci suffisant pour élire la totalité des membres du Conseil. Dans un instant, M. le Président de la Conférence  générale va vous donner lecture des résultats. Je tiens à adresser, au nom de la délégation chinoise et en mon nom propre,  mes sincères remerciements à tous les scrutateurs qui m’ont activement secondé dans l’exercice de mes fonctions. Je  saisis cette occasion pour exprimer également ma gratitude au Secrétariat, et en particulier à M. Kol et à ses  collaborateurs, dont le soutien, tout au long du scrutin, a contribué à son bon déroulement.
(4.3) À ma connaissance, et au dire de nombre de collègues du Secrétariat, il est rare qu’une élection à l’UNESCO  se déroule dans d’aussi bonnes conditions. Au nom du bureau de vote, je tiens à adresser mes félicitations à tous les États  membres qui ont été élus. Je remercie aussi de leur concours nos collègues du Secrétariat. Je vous remercie.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Zhang, for skilfully supervising the election. I also wish to thank all  those who have served with you as tellers: Mr John Dann (Luxembourg), Ms Magdalena Pohlodova (Slovakia),  Mr Carlos Briceno (Peru), Ms Mary-Joy Brocard (Philippines), Ms Pule Bosilong (South Africa) and Mr Mohamed- Adel Samet (Algeria), for the time and effort they devoted to the electoral process.
5.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to read out, by electoral group, the results of the ballot for the  election of Members of the Executive Board. Group I, in which there are five seats to be filled. Number of Member  States entitled to vote at the present session: 182; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 1; number of votes  recorded: 177; names of the Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending  order of the number of votes: Canada: 169; Switzerland: 166; France: 165; Italy: 159; United States of America: 147.
5.3 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Canada, Switzerland, France, Italy and United  States of America.
5.4 Group II, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 182; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 2; number of votes recorded: 176; names of the  Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Russian Federation: 119; Slovenia: 113; Czech Republic: 112; Hungary: 94; Serbia and Montenegro: 85; Azerbaijan: 74;  Romania: 64.
5.5 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Russian Federation, Slovenia, Czech Republic  and Hungary.
5.6 Group III, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 182; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 4; number of votes recorded: 174; names of the  Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Venezuela: 167; Ecuador: 163; Guatemala: 160; Uruguay: 160.
5.7 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Venezuela, Ecuador, Guatemala and Uruguay.
5.8 Group IV, in which there are six seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 182; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 1; number of votes recorded: 177. Names of the  Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Sri Lanka: 140; Bangladesh: 128; Indonesia: 123; Cambodia: 122; Pakistan: 106; Afghanistan: 90; Nepal: 89%;  Mongolia: 75; Kazakhstan: 53; Palau: 42.
5.9 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Cambodia,  Pakistan and Afghanistan.
5.10 Group V (a), in which there are seven seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 182; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 3; number of votes recorded: 175. Names of the  Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Mauritius: 151; Cameroon: 138; Namibia: 129; Cape Verde: 128; Mali: 119; Congo: 116; Ghana: 104; Côte d’Ivoire: 80;  Uganda: 78; Gambia: 73.
5.11 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Mauritius, Cameroon, Namibia, Cape Verde,  Mali, Congo and Ghana.
5.12 Group V (b), in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 182. absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 1; number of votes recorded: 177; names of the  Member States candidates and number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes:  Bahrain: 120; Morocco: 112; Yemen: 89; Libyan Arab Jamahiriya: 74; Sudan: 52; and Syrian Arab Republic: 49.
5.13 Therefore, I declare elected Members of the Executive Board: Bahrain, Morocco and Yemen.
5.14 Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to offer my very warm congratulations to the Member States that have been  elected to the Executive Board. Félicitations à tous.  (Applause)
5.15 I wish to inform these newly-elected Members that they are invited to attend an information meeting, on  Wednesday, 15 October at 11 a.m. in Room X. I also wish to inform the General Conference that the Executive Board,  in its new composition – in other words, both existing and new Members – will hold its first meeting of the
168th session of the Executive Board on Monday, 20 October at 10 a.m. in Room X.  (The President continues in French)
5.16 Chers collègues, avant de lever cette séance, permettez-moi de vous rappeler que nous reprendrons nos  travaux en plénière, mercredi prochain 15 octobre, à 15 heures. Toutefois, une séance plénière exceptionnelle est prévue  mardi prochain 14 octobre, à 11 heures, afin d’accueillir le Président de la République du Pérou, M. Alejandro Toledo,  et le Président de la République française, M. Jacques Chirac.
5.17 Mesdames et Messieurs, nous sommes parvenus à la fin des travaux de cette seizième séance plénière. La  séance est levée. Je vous remercie.   La séance est levée à 17 h 55   The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 17.55   Заседание закрывается в 17.55  א א٥,٥٥א    会议于 17 时 55 分结束