511  Vingt et unième séance plénière
17 octobre 2003 à 10 h 15  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Twenty-first plenary meeting
512  LIEU DE LA 33e SESSION DE LA CONFÉRENCE GÉNÉRALE  VENUE OF THE 33rd SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  LUGAR DE LA 33ª REUNIÓN DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL  МЕСТО ПРОВЕДЕНИЯ 33-Й СЕССИИ ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОЙ КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  א א א א  א 大会第 33 届会议的地点
1. The PRESIDENT:  Honourable Ministers, heads of delegation, dear colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I have been  advised that we have a quorum and I would therefore like to declare open the twenty-first plenary meeting of this  General Conference. This plenary meeting will be devoted to the examination of items 13.1 and 5.8, and to the  examination of the reports of Commission I and Commission IV and the adoption of the resolutions contained therein.  Item 13.1 of our agenda concerns the venue of the 33rd session of the General Conference. The document pertaining to  this item is 32 C/46. I now have the pleasure to give the floor to the Chairperson of the Executive Board who will  introduce this item.
2. Mme BENNANI (Maroc), présidente du Conseil exécutif :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, chers collègues,  conformément à l’article 2 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, le Conseil exécutif a examiné à sa 167e  session le point relatif au lieu de la 33e session de la Conférence générale. L’article 3 du Règlement intérieur dispose  que tout État membre peut inviter la Conférence générale à se réunir sur son territoire, et que les invitations doivent être  transmises au Directeur général au moins six semaines avant l’ouverture de la session en cours. À la date fixée par les  dispositions de cet article, c’est-à-dire au 14 août 2003, aucun État membre n’avait invité la Conférence générale à tenir  sa 33e session, en 2005, sur son territoire. En conséquence le Conseil exécutif, dans sa décision 167 EX/6.3, a  recommandé que la Conférence générale décide de tenir sa 33e session au Siège de l’Organisation à Paris. Cette  recommandation figure, comme l’a dit M. le Président de la Conférence générale, dans le document 32 C/46. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
3. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Madam. Honourable delegates, as you have heard from the Chairperson of the  Executive Board, the General Conference is invited to adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 6 of document
32 C/46. Are there any objections? I see none. It is therefore adopted. The 33rd session of the General Conference will  therefore be held in Paris in 2005.  POINT 5.8 : RAPPORT DU FORUM DES JEUNES DE LA CONFÉRENCE GÉNÉRALE DE L’UNESCO (2003)  ITEM 5.8: REPORT OF THE UNESCO GENERAL CONFERENCE YOUTH FORUM (2003)  PUNTO 5.8: INFORME DEL FORO DE LA JUVENTUD DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL DE LA UNESCO
4.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Chers collègues, nous passons à l’examen du point 5.8 - Rapport du Forum des jeunes de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO (2003). Le document correspondant à ce point est le document 32 C/55. Vous vous souviendrez  que la Conférence générale a eu le privilège d’accueillir, lors de sa deuxième séance, Mme Kabonesa Sekitoleko,  présidente du Forum des jeunes, qui nous a présenté les principales conclusions de ce Forum. J’invite maintenant la  Conférence générale à examiner le projet de résolution relatif à ce point qui figure dans le document 32 C/PLEN/DR.3.  Les observations du Directeur général sur ce projet de résolution se trouvent dans le document PLEN/DR.3 Addendum.
4.2 Je crois savoir que la délégation d’Australie souhaiterait prendre la parole sur ce sujet. Monsieur le délégué  de l’Australie, vous avez la parole.
5. Ms COWAN (Australia):  Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of all the co-sponsors, Australia has much pleasure in proposing this  draft resolution. It arises from one of the key recommendations of the highly successful Youth Forum held prior to this  General Conference, namely that a Youth Forum should be an integral part of every General Conference. We are  grateful to the Director-General for his positive response to this recommendation, as outlined in the comments he has  provided on the draft resolution. On behalf of all the delegates to the Youth Forum, I would like to take this opportunity
513  to thank you, Mr Matsuura, and your Youth Division for the way you are involving young people as partners to achieve  the goals of UNESCO, for the benefit of present and future generations. Thank you.
6. The PRESIDENT:  Do any other delegations wish to speak? Thank you very much. I shall give the floor to those on the list and  then close it and proceed with our very busy day today. I give the floor to the distinguished representative of Belgium.
7. Mme FRANÇOIS (Belgique) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Nous avions fait savoir à l’auteur de ce projet de résolution, la délégation de  l’Australie, que la Belgique en était entièrement partie prenante. Or le nom de la Belgique ne figure pas dans le  document 32 C/PLEN/DR.3. Nous tenons à confirmer que notre délégation estime qu’il sera très fécond et constructif  pour l’Organisation qu’un forum des jeunes fasse partie intégrante de chaque session de la Conférence générale et nous  appuyons donc totalement ce projet de résolution. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
8. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, Madame. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué de l’Uruguay.
(9) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this is simply to request that Uruguay be included among the  countries sponsoring this draft resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now invite the representative of Venezuela to take the floor.
(11) Mr DÍAZ (Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Venezuela endorses the spirit of this draft resolution and we should like to be  included among the sponsors of this draft. We believe that each General Conference session should have a youth forum  since this gives young people from our countries the opportunity to participate in these multilateral activities. We should  like to take this opportunity also to thank the Government of Canada for enabling the delegate of Venezuela to participate  in the Youth Forum associated with this year’s session of the General Conference. Thank you very much.
12. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Venezuela. I would like the Secretary to read out the names of those that are on our  list.
13. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Voici la liste des délégations qui ont demandé jusqu’ici à s’exprimer : Soudan,  Norvège, Pakistan, Islande, Ghana et Inde. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
14. The PRESIDENT:  I would now like to ask if any other countries wish to take the floor. Mr Secretary, could you read out the  final list of speakers please?
15. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Je reprends, en la complétant, la liste dont je viens de donner lecture : Soudan, Norvège, Pakistan, Islande,  Ghana, Inde, auxquels s’ajoutent le Kenya, l’Azerbaïdjan et le Mali.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Now I would like to give the floor to Sudan.
(16) Mr KARADAWI (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall briefly mention two points. Having supported the draft resolution,  I should like to ask officially that the name of the Sudan be added to the list of sponsors, because, through the Sudanese  youth delegation, we have officially invited the International Youth Union to cooperate with the Arab Youth Union in  holding the International Youth Conference in the Sudan in 2004, and agreement in principle has been reached in the  matter. This is my first point. As regards my second point, it would be highly desirable for more languages to be used at  the Youth Forum. Arabic, for example, could be used as one of its official languages. We are in favour of the Forum’s  being held during the Conference rather than before it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now invite the representative of Norway to take the floor.
19. Mr BRISEID (Norway):  Thank you, Mr President. Norway is very satisfied that the Youth Forum is about to be established as an  integral part of the General Conference. We would like to emphasize particularly the mainstreaming approach and  therefore, in planning for the next General Conference, we have to make sure that young people’s opinions are  integrated in the proceedings of the Conference itself. Norway has also noted that, at this last Forum, 105 countries  were represented. I think, Mr President, that our ambition for the next General Conference should be to have all  Member States of UNESCO included, so I would ask the Secretariat to have this in mind when the next Youth Forum is  planned. Thank you.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Norway. I now invite the representative of Pakistan to  take the floor.
21.1 Ms INAYATULLAH (Pakistan):  Thank you, Mr President. Pakistan is very pleased to be a sponsor of this draft resolution, and we would like  the Director-General to kindly give concrete expression to the elements and desires voiced therein, particularly for the  next session of the General Conference. In this regard we would like to make a specific proposal and request that the  General Conference not only talk about youth, but for youth. As the previous speaker has just pointed out, we should  make an effort to include at least one youth delegate in every delegation; gender equity should be encouraged, and we  should work out ways and means of integrating youth, even into the work of the commissions. If we think this through,  it is definitely possible.
21.2 In his comments, the Director-General recognized the vibrant and engaging discussions of the youth group,  who identified three particular areas of interest: HIV/AIDS, fresh water and education. We would like to request the  Director-General to work out ways and means of involving youth in implementation, planning and programmes, in  particular for these three areas, so that we address their specific concerns. Lastly, we do hope that National  Commissions will be able to deploy and employ youth as interns. Thank you.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam. I would now like to give the floor to the delegate of Iceland.
23. Ms HELGADÓTTIR (Iceland):  Thank you, Mr President. Iceland has consistently stressed the need to involve youth in the work of  UNESCO. It therefore very much welcomes the Director-General’s positive response to the draft resolution and looks  forward to the next General Conference of which the Youth Forum will be an integral part. We would very much like to  endorse the proposals just made by Norway and Pakistan to mainstream youth into the work of UNESCO.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Madam. I now invite the representative of Ghana to take the floor.
25. Mr KUSI-ACHAMPONG (Ghana):  Thank you, Mr President. The Ghana delegation also wishes to support the draft resolution and accordingly  wishes the name of Ghana to be added to the list. Given the importance of the involvement of our youth in decision- making exercises, Ghana wishes to appeal to the Secretariat to try and explore possibilities of helping some of the  Member States, when the need arises, to ensure that all the Member States will be represented at the next Youth Forum.  Thank you, Mr President.
26. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ghana. I now give the floor to Kenya.
27. Ms NZOMO (Kenya):  Thank you, Mr President. The Kenyan delegation wishes to be fully associated with this draft resolution. The  Youth Forum is a noble idea and it should be encouraged. Kenya, therefore, should be listed as a co-sponsor of the draft  resolution. Thank you, Mr President.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to India.
29. Mr BALAKRISHNAN (India):  Mr President, the Indian delegation warmly supports this initiative of Australia and would also like to be  added to the list of sponsors. Holding regular Youth Forum meetings would certainly help to involve and mainstream  youth in all the activities of UNESCO. Thank you.
30. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, India. I now give the floor to Azerbaijan.
31. M. GODJAYEV (Azerbaïdjan) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. L’Azerbaïdjan accorde une grande importance au Forum des jeunes et soutient  pour cette raison ce projet de résolution. Nous souhaitons donc que le nom de l’Azerbaïdjan figure parmi les auteurs de  ce projet de résolution. Merci beaucoup.
32. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le délégué de l’Azerbaïdjan. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué du Mali.
33. M. MARIKO (Mali) :    Merci, Monsieur le Président. Le Mali voudrait s’associer au projet de résolution et souhaiterait que son nom  figure dans la liste des auteurs. Merci.
34. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, chers collègues, pour vos observations. Puis-je considérer que la Conférence générale  adopte le projet de résolution tel qu’il figure dans le document 32 C/PLEN/DR.3 ? Il en est ainsi décidé. Je vous  remercie beaucoup.   RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION I : RÉSOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION I: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN I: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ I: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  א א:א א א  א 第 I 委员会的报告：决议和建议
35. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Nous passons maintenant à l’examen du rapport de la Commission I. Le document correspondant est le  document 32 C/71. J’invite S. E. M. l’Ambassadeur Vargas, président de la Commission I, à présenter le rapport de la  Commission. Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, vous avez la parole.
36.1 Mr VARGAS (Brazil) (Chairperson of Commission I):  Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor to present the oral report of Commission I. Mr President –  my dear friend, Ambassador Omolewa – Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, Madam Chairperson of  the Executive Board, honourable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is both a pleasure and a privilege for me to present  the report on the work of Commission I to the 32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Before I do so, I  should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the members of the Commission for the quality of their  debate and mutual collaboration, cooperation and understanding they displayed during a week in which they dealt with  several topics that affect the very core functioning of this Organization. Without their excellent efforts at striving  towards consensus, I fear that my task would have been much more difficult. Equally, Mr President, it would be remiss  of me not to thank the members of the Bureau of the Commission for their support. I should especially like to thank the  Rapporteur, Mr Jiří Blažek from the Czech Republic, for his excellent work and the Vice-Chairpersons, in particular  Mr David Walden from Canada and Mr Adil Ahmed Karadawi from Sudan, whom I have called upon occasionally to  take the chair.
36.2 My report is a synthesis of the decisions reached by the Commission. The substantive questions addressed  throughout the meetings, together with the recommendations adopted, form an integral part of the written report  submitted to you as document 32 C/71 and Add. and Corr. While 11 meetings were planned initially, the Commission  conducted its work during the course of 12 meetings, consisting of nine debates held from 7 to 17 October 2003. At its  first meeting the Commission elected by acclamation the Vice-Chairpersons and the Rapporteur and adopted its  timetable of work.
36.3 The first debate was given over to the consideration and adoption of the preparation of the Draft Programme  and Budget for 2006-2007. During this debate, the Commission was asked to provide future-oriented indications  regarding the principal priorities and other priorities of the different programmes. It was also asked to reflect on the  interrelationship between these priorities and the strategic objectives of the Medium-Term Strategy. The ways and  means of ensuring enhanced transdisciplinarity and intersectorality were touched upon, together with an examination of  the mainstreaming of the needs of Africa, the least developed countries, women and youth.
36.4 Delegates from 22 Member States took part in this discussion. Various comprehensive requirements were  defined, such as the full use of UNESCO’s comparative advantages in implementing multilateral actions, the need to  enhance cooperation with other actors concerned, the complementarity of intergovernmental, governmental and non- governmental actions, and the need to make further progress in ensuring transdisciplinarity with the indispensable  strengthening of monitoring, reporting and evaluation of all actions. Much emphasis was given to the harmonization of  UNESCO’s programming with existing frameworks at the national level, such as the United Nations Development  Assistance Frameworks (UNDAFs), the Common Country Assessments (CCAs), and the Poverty Reduction Strategy  Papers (PRSPs), with a view to ensuring the full contribution of UNESCO’s competencies to a country’s development  process, especially in regard to the fight against poverty, while taking advantage of specific niches and appropriate roles  for the Organization’s action.
36.5 It was noted that the main, and other, priorities defined in document 32 C/5 should be maintained for  document 33 C/5. More efforts should be made, however, to allocate additional staff to areas of programme priorities.  The advances in results-based programming, budgeting, management and monitoring were welcomed and the  refinements already envisaged by the Director-General towards the inclusion of more qualitative and impact-oriented  performance indicators and the formulation of benchmark indicators were welcomed by many delegations. A particular  challenge to be faced was the question of how to formulate pertinent indicators and benchmarks of a cultural and ethical  nature.
36.6 The need for enhanced intersectoral action was particularly underlined, especially through the increased use  of common lines of action, expanding them to other areas such as languages, education for sustainable development or  science-communication and information links. Several delegations requested a more focused and strategic approach  regarding the projects related to the two cross-cutting themes of the Medium-Term Strategy, for which they also  requested better regional balance. The importance of National Commissions was stressed by various delegations, in  particular with regard to their capacity to ensure programme implementation locally.
36.7 Several delegations underlined the great importance of associating youth more closely with the  Organization’s actions, in the light of the fruitful results obtained by the Youth Forum held prior to the present session  of the General Conference, which have been confirmed by the resolution we have just adopted. At the end of this debate,  the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt in extenso resolution
32 C/COM.I.II.III.IV.V/DR.1 as amended.
36.8 Mr President, debate 2 dealt with the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS). Representatives from 18  countries took the floor to commend the Institute on the important advances made in the statistical activities of  UNESCO over the last two years. UIS was congratulated particularly for the efforts it has made to work in concert with  the other international agencies. Particular stress was laid on the need for even more emphasis on statistical capacity- building in developing countries, mention being made of the demand of the statistical problems pertaining to small  island countries. The Institute was urged not to confine itself to quantitative information but to consider a wider range  of material and ensure sensitive interpretation which would take into account the context of data collection and cultural  and other differences existing between countries. Particular concern was expressed at analysis that fails to appreciate the  very different starting points of concerned countries or the variability of the resources available to them.
36.9 It was recognized that close relationships are essential in order for UNESCO to fully benefit from UIS and  for the Institute’s work to be informed by UNESCO’s priorities, despite the relocation of the Institute to Montreal. At  the end of the debate, the Commission decided to recommend to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 06003 of document 32 C/5 with the final budgetary provisions pertaining to UIS.
36.10 The Commission continued its discussions in debate 3, examining five chapters of document 32 C/5 – Part  II.C: Chapter 1 “Coordination of action to benefit Africa”; Chapter 2 “Fellowships Programme”; Chapter 3 “Public  information”; Chapter 4 “Strategic planning and programme monitoring”; and Chapter 5 “Budget preparation and  monitoring”. After presentations by representatives of the Director-General, 49 Member States took part in the  discussions on these items.
36.11 With regard to Chapter 1 “Coordination of action to benefit Africa” all Members congratulated the  Organization on its initiatives in favour of that continent, in particular through the new framework for action  represented by the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Equally, they expressed their satisfaction at  seeing UNESCO become increasingly involved in concrete activities to implement the new partnership, in its fields of  competence. Several speakers stressed the need to move on to the development of a global UNESCO-NEPAD  cooperation programme based on subregional and regional projects. The Organization was thus invited to ensure that, in  the implementation of its activities, all the continent’s subregions received fair coverage. National Commissions should  be given the role of focal points in the coordination of UNESCO-NEPAD cooperation, and their capacities to undertake  such functions strengthened.
36.12 Concerning Chapter 2 “Fellowships Programme” all speakers welcomed the corresponding additional budget  provisions and expressed their appreciation of the current procedure for processing the corresponding requests. They  stressed the importance of fellowships, especially as regards the training of key educational personnel and the transfer  of knowledge and international cooperation they may induce. Because the Fellowships Programme is an instrument for  reinforcing the Organization’s profile, many representatives expressed the desire that it should be strengthened in order  to cover several additional disciplines.
36.13 As for Chapter 3 “Public information” the great majority of Member States praised the new communication  strategy and the increased visibility resulting from its implementation. A large number of delegates spoke of the need to  augment the circulation of the Courier and the desirability of having it translated into languages other than the six  working languages of the Organization. Concerns were aired as to the continued financing and sustainability of the  Courier and the difficulty of its adequate distribution at national level. Many Member States regretted the lack of time  and funding presently allocated to training members of the National Commissions through the public information  workshops. It was requested that more BPI documents be translated into at least the six working languages of the  Organization – especially Arabic and Chinese.
36.14 Regarding Chapter 4 “Strategic planning and programme monitoring” many delegates expressed the need to  increase synergy between the Secretariat and Member States in the formulation of the programme and budget. Several  speakers praised the increase in programme monitoring, especially through the integration of SISTER and FABS. Praise  was given to the refinements being made in the area of results-based programming, management and monitoring,  especially as regards the use of adapted quantitative indicators to better monitor the implementation of the programme  at national level. Some members requested clarifications as to the ongoing and existing relationship between the  Medium-Term Strategy, the regional medium-term strategies and the elaboration of the objectives of the clusters. All  participants were especially supportive of the UNESCO Youth Forum and requested increased participation of youth in  the formulation and implementation of its programme and budget. It was also noted that greater reinforcement of the  actions relative to the dialogue among civilizations should be undertaken.
36.15 Finally, concerning Chapter 5 “Budget preparation and monitoring” the Member States of the Commission  requested additional details on the new procedures and approaches developed by the Secretariat in connection with the  new management tools of the Organization. Concerning budget elaboration and implementation, it was requested that
518  additional and more timely information on the process of preparation of the C/5 document be provided to National  Commissions. At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the  resolutions contained in paragraphs 11002, 12002, 13002, 14002 and 15002 of document 32 C/5 with the necessary  budgetary provisions for these Chapters.
36.16 Mr President, debate 3 also addressed resolutions concerning the strengthening of cooperation with three  Member States from the African continent: Angola, Côte d’Ivoire and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Needless  to say, Mr President, this particular area of the African subcontinent has been ravaged by protracted and prolonged  warfare. The Commission, therefore, has instructed me to request the Director-General to take into account the urgent  nature of the situation prevailing in these countries and to examine the possibility of using unobligated financial  resources found at the end of the current biennium to effectively implement the corresponding resolutions with the  utmost urgency. I might add, Mr President, with great pleasure, the fact that my commission adopted these resolutions  by acclamation, in extenso.
36.17 In debate 4 the question of adapting the “Regulations for the general classification of the various categories  of meetings convened by UNESCO” to the needs of the Organization was examined. Ten speakers took the floor on this  subject, requesting clarification as regards the representation of National Commissions in meetings organized by  UNESCO, and expressing their satisfaction with the current categories of classification adopted for meetings. A  majority was happy to note that those meetings classified as “out of category” have been reduced to a number well  below the levels formerly observed. It was requested that statistics relative to the numbers of meetings and expert  groups held, their respective categories and the clear monitoring of those remaining “out of category” be systematically  reported upon. At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the  resolution proposed in document 32 C/19 Add., as amended by the Commission.
36.18 In debate 5 we looked at the Participation Programme. As you are well aware, Mr President, this topic is of  particular importance to all representatives, for it not only enhances UNESCO’s profile in the Member States, but also  builds the capacities of those Member States most in need. The Commission was pleased with the results of this debate,  especially as regards both the priority given to the submissions presented by Member States most in need, as well as to  the preference given to those activities for the benefit of the developing countries. The Commission recommended that  the General Conference approve the proposed resolution contained in paragraph 09004 of document 32 C/5 as amended  by the Commission.
36.19 Debate 6 brought together several items: Part III.B: External relations and cooperation; sectoral and  intersectoral strategies for the Organization’s cooperation with international non-governmental organizations; definition  of regions with a view to the execution of regional activities; and proposals by Member States for the celebration of  anniversaries with which UNESCO could be associated in 2004-2005. Thirty-seven Member States and three NGOs  took part in the debate, most of them welcoming the action taken by the ERC Sector. Concerning the cooperation with  National Commissions, most speakers stated strong appreciation and support for current efforts relating to the capacity- building of National Commissions for UNESCO through training, equipment and communication services. They  requested that these activities should be continued and expanded in the next biennium, with appropriate adaptation to  the specific needs faced in each region.
36.20 Several Member States emphasized the central role played by National Commissions as liaison bodies at the  country level in relation to the various institutions and partners. Some delegates asked for a clearer definition of the  respective roles and functions of National Commissions on one hand, and of Permanent Delegations, UNESCO field  offices and civil society partners on the other. A number of Member States called for further promotion of regional and  interregional cooperation among National Commissions and for stronger cooperation with regional institutions such as  ISESCO, ALECSO and the Council of Europe. In this regard, the Commission requested me to draw attention to such  innovative initiatives as the Euro-Arab Dialogue.
36.21 A long discussion took place on the activities of the UNESCO Clubs movement and on the present state of  UNESCO’s relations with the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs and Associations (WFUCA). General support was  expressed for the importance of Clubs and on the favourable impact of their action at community level. Their links with  National Commissions in each Member State are considered to be essential to ensure their proper coordination and  monitoring. The Commission also discussed, at length, whether or not it was necessary to change the name of UNESCO  Clubs into Clubs for UNESCO (or Friends of UNESCO) in order to avoid the confusion that has already arisen on this  subject. With regard to the question of sectoral and intersectoral strategies, most speakers emphasized the importance of  NGOs as vital representatives of civil society and the need for UNESCO to strengthen its cooperation with these  networks of experts.
36.22 With regard to the “Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional  activities”, the Commission decided to recommend to the General Conference that the Democratic Republic of Timor- Leste be added to the Asia and the Pacific region, and that the United States of America be added to the Europe region.  Finally, Mr President, the Commission turned its attention to the item concerning the “Proposals by Member States for  the celebration of anniversaries with which UNESCO could be associated in 2004-2005”. Fifteen speakers referred to  the celebration of anniversaries proposed by the General Conference and the activities planned in that context,  requesting more support both from the Member States and from UNESCO. I wish to endorse all the specific remarks  made by the Member States of the Commission, although I do not wish to give details in this report. I am sure that the  Secretariat has taken good note of them.
36.23 At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended to the General Conference that it: adopt the  resolution contained in paragraph 18002 concerning Part III.B: External relations and cooperation, as amended; take  note of document 32 C/31 and Add. on sectoral and intersectoral strategies for the Organization’s cooperation with  international non-governmental organizations, and adopt the resolution proposed in paragraph 93 of document 32 C/31  Add.; admit the United States of America to the Europe region and Timor-Leste to the Asia and the Pacific region; and  adopt the resolution contained in document 32 C/17, as amended. Draft resolution 32 C/COM.I/DR.4 was not retained  because the anniversary proposed therein was already listed in the resolution in document 32 C/17 as amended.
36.24 Debate 7 dealt with field management and coordination. Twenty speakers took the floor during the debate.  Many of them emphasized the efforts which have been made to date and called for the pace of decentralization to be  speeded up. The plan of action for the continuation of the decentralization strategy should cover seven to ten years and  indicate clearly the changes envisaged for the staff in each field office (in particular, with respect to grade level,  professional competence, in-depth knowledge of the regions and command of the respective languages). A majority of  speakers stressed the need for further strengthening of the financial and human resources of the field offices. A number  of speakers mentioned the respective roles of, and relations between, the different types of field offices. Some speakers  felt that the wearing of the “two hats” of regional office and cluster office by some offices led to confusion and that, in  any case, some of these offices could not carry out both of these functions with their present level of resources. In  addition, the chain of command of the field offices, which must report to the Bureau of Field Coordination (BFC) and  the programme sectors, was also considered to be a little confusing.
36.25 Most speakers referred to the need to strengthen the coordination between field offices and National  Commissions, with a number of speakers noting the persistence of serious communication problems between them. The  Commission requested that my oral report expressly mention the importance of collaboration with the National  Commissions, with particular reference to paragraphs 17005 and 17007 of document 32 C/5. Numerous speakers  stressed that the continuation of the new decentralization strategy should be independently reviewed, with the  involvement of the National Commissions in particular, in order to create a deeply-rooted “culture of evaluation” at all  levels of the decentralization process. The Commission then recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the  resolution proposed in paragraph 17002 of document 32 C/5 as amended. Mr President, throughout our discussions – be  they on the Participation Programme, Fellowships, Clubs or NGOs – the essential role of the National Commissions  was mentioned. This is a subject which has also been widely raised during this session of the General Conference and  on previous sessions of the Executive Board. I wish to draw your attention to it once again.
36.26 Mr President, I have come at last to the subject of our final debate – debate 8 – which concerns the relations  between the three organs of UNESCO: role of the General Conference with respect to the Medium-Term Strategy (C/4)  and the Programme and Budget (C/5). As you know, the relations between the three organs is a recurring question that  has been considered in several sessions of the General Conference and Executive Board. After examining the question  of relations between the three organs of UNESCO in the report by the working group of the Executive Board on  proposals for improving the functioning of the three organs of UNESCO, the Board decided to transmit to the present  session of the General Conference, for its consideration, the documents examined by the Board during the 2002-2003  biennium. Many delegates welcomed the ongoing reform process concerning governance in the Organization but felt  that even more reform was necessary, particularly as regards the articulation between the three organs. Delegates  expressed their expectation that the emerging reform be linked to the overall reform of the United Nations system.
36.27 All delegates underlined the importance of open-ended discussion, which should not be restricted solely to  the effective management of each organ but deal with the existing interface between each organ. The reform should  therefore deal with a wide range of issues and not only with the way in which the General Conference and Executive  Board examine the programme and budget. These issues include the structures, function and working methods of the  organs, all of which allow it to increase efficiency and consequently the rationalization of resources. The need for a  working group to be created and composed of experts or representatives of Member States had been discussed. The  issues of attendance of this working group by observers and respect for geographical representation in the group were  stressed by a number of representatives. Furthermore, it was felt that this working group should take into account the
520  extensive work carried out by the previous working groups, including the most recent one chaired by Mr Krogh. The  Commission recommended to the General Conference that it adopt draft resolution 32 C/COM.I/DR.1 Rev., as amended,  to deal with this all-important matter.
36.28 Mr President, I have come to the end of my report. I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for the  fairness and competence with which you have been directing the deliberations and decisions of this very successful  session of UNESCO’s General Conference. I am grateful to the Director-General for the indispensable and competent  assistance offered to the Commission by the Secretariat. I have already expressed my gratitude to the interpreters who  have so ably helped us to improve on our own languages. Finally, sir, I must say that the Commission could not have  reached a safe harbour without the ability and competence of the Secretary – our good friend Genevieve, and her team:  Tomata, Clandïne, Myriam, Fatoumada, Russ, Jaco, Anna, Karima, Catheril. Thank you all for your attention.
37.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur. Permettez-moi de vous féliciter pour la maîtrise dont vous avez,  une nouvelle fois, fait preuve dans l’exercice de vos fonctions de Président de la Commission I.
37.2 Puis-je vous demander à présent, chers collègues, si vous avez des questions ou commentaires à formuler sur  le document 32 C/71 ? Je donne la parole au délégué du Lesotho.
38. Ms TSEKOA (Lesotho):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish to congratulate the Chairperson of Commission I. Mr Vargas has  produced a good report. However, the delegation of Lesotho would like to request a small addition to the penultimate  line of paragraph 8. After the words “especially the fight against poverty”, I would like the words: “and HIV/AIDS” to  be added. I thank you.
(40) Mr RASHEED (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. My compliments to Ambassador Vargas on this excellent report. Mr President, if I  may I should like to comment on UNESCO’s participation in the celebration of anniversaries. We have before us
43 occasions with which UNESCO is to be associated in the course of the next two years. I was hoping, and still hope,  that UNESCO’s participation could be restricted to anniversaries of the founding of cultural and scientific institutions and  research centres. If the Organization must participate in celebrations of the anniversaries of specific individuals, it seems  to me more appropriate to celebrate their births rather than their deaths. Why should we celebrate anyone’s death? It is  the anniversary of a great man’s birth that calls for celebration, not the anniversary of his death. As for the other matter,  we are about to adopt a resolution on UNESCO’s association with 43 occasions, but we do not know who these people  are. Would it not be possible to write a single line about each person with whose anniversary UNESCO wishes to be  associated? The list includes many persons about whom we know nothing. Thank you, Mr President.
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much indeed. I would now like to invite Ambassador Vargas to respond to those  observations. Ambassador Vargas, you have the floor, Sir.
42. Mr VARGAS (Brazil) (Chairperson of Commission I):  Regarding the last intervention, I wish to point out that we are acting on decisions taken by the Executive  Board and adopted by the General Conference. We take note of your comments for future action but in principle the  justification for every case has been brought to the attention of the Executive Board and the criteria have been adopted
521  and accepted by the General Conference. So that is all I have to say. It is not possible at this stage to open a debate on  selection procedure. Thank you.
43. The PRESIDENT:  With regard to the issue raised by Lesotho, I would like to ask the Secretary for his comments. Mr Secretary,  you have the floor.
44. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. L’observation du Lesotho a trait à une partie du rapport de la Commission que  celle-ci a approuvée et qui est soumise à la Conférence générale, non pour décision mais simplement pour qu’elle en  prenne note. Par conséquent il est, en principe, difficile que la plénière modifie cette partie du texte puisqu’elle  appartient en quelque sorte à la Commission. Le Président de la Commission souhaitera peut-être s’exprimer à ce  propos. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
45. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci, Monsieur le Secrétaire. Y a-t-il d’autres interventions ?
46. Mr VARGAS (Brazil) (Chairperson of Commission I):  I have no comments in addition to what has been said by the Secretary of the General Conference. I agree  with his point of view.
47. The PRESIDENT:  I now invite Georgia to speak. Madam, you have the floor.
(48) Ms LAGUIDZE (Georgia) (translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. I shall be very brief. I just wanted to take the floor to make special mention of the  work of the secretariat of Commission I, and Mr Vargas, who deployed his long experience of diplomacy and outstanding  knowledge of UNESCO to the full in addressing the major and serious issues before the Commission. This was all  reflected in the successful resolution of all the extensive and complex matters involved. It is with gratitude that I wish  once more to express my appreciation of Mr Vargas’s work and to thank him. Thank you for your attention.
49. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I now invite the Director-General to take the floor.
50. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  I would like to refer to a point raised by the delegate of Saudi Arabia regarding the anniversaries with which  UNESCO will be associated. I would remind the General Conference that there exists a set of criteria for the choice of  such anniversaries, decided by the Executive Board. I would refer you to 159 EX/Decision 7.5. There are six criteria. So  the question raised by the delegate of Saudi Arabia is a matter that ought to be discussed by the Board in the context of  such criteria. I shall therefore refrain from further comment. I would like to summarize by saying that the points raised  by Saudi Arabia are matters for further consideration by the Board. Thank you very much.
51. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. Nigeria, you have the floor.
52. Ms ALUKO (Nigeria):  Mr President, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Vargas for conducting the Commission’s work so  creditably. I was at the Commission throughout the period, and I admire his patience and his dexterity, without which  the work of the Commission could not have progressed so efficiently. Thank you, Mr President.
53. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Nigeria. Sudan, please, you have the floor.
(54) Mr KARADAWI (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I, in my turn, wish to compliment the Chairperson of the Commission on his  excellent work. Mr President, you asked me to submit a proposal concerning the affiliation of the Sudan to Africa south  of the Sahara in Commission I, and I did so in the Administrative Commission. I should just like to be sure about the  proposal I submitted in the Administrative Commission. I believe the message reached the Director-General. The aim  was to enable the Sudan to enjoy the rights of both groups, the Arab group and the Africa group, especially the group of  African countries south of the Sahara. Thank you very much, Mr President.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ambassador Vargas.
56. Mr VARGAS (Brazil) (Chairperson of Commission I):  Yes, that question has been raised in the Commission by the distinguished delegate of Sudan who, by the  way, is one of the Vice-Chairpersons of our commission. My own view, and I think it was the feeling of the  Commission too, is that the relationship between the dual affiliation of Sudan to both southern Africa and the other  group is not a question for our commission to examine. As I understand it, it would be a question for NEPAD itself to  deal with. That was the feeling I gathered from our meeting.
57. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to ask the Director-General to make a comment on that.
58. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Thank you very much, Mr President. I have taken good note of what the delegate of the Sudan said the other  day, and I would like to mention that the Sudan belongs to the Arab group in terms of electoral grouping, but in  programme terms, in terms of programme execution, the Sudan belongs to both the Arab group and the African group.  In other words, we are already implementing what you are asking for where programmes are concerned. So I would like  to give my assurance to the delegate of Sudan that we will take your request amply into account.
59.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. Is the representative of the Sudan satisfied? Yes. Thank you  very much.
59.2 Ladies and gentlemen, as there appear to be no further comments or objections, I consider that the plenary  takes note of the report of Commission I and adopts the resolutions proposed therein.
59.3 I would like to thank Ambassador Vargas and the Commission for the excellent work done. I think the  Commission was lucky to have been chaired by a person with such vast knowledge of the workings of UNESCO as this  Chairperson. Congratulations, Ambassador, and God bless you.
60. Mr VARGAS (Brazil) (Chairperson of Commission I):  I would like to express my gratitude to the Commission members and to the plenary.
61. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed further, I would like to invite the Secretary to make a statement.  You have the floor, Sir.
62. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais procéder à une clarification concernant l’ordre du jour de la  plénière de cet après-midi. Vous vous en souviendrez, le programme des travaux de la plénière, tel qu’il a été fixé par le  Bureau de la Conférence générale prévoit, entre autres choses, pour cet après-midi l’examen du point 11.16, relatif aux  « Propositions du Directeur général concernant l’utilisation de la contribution des États-Unis d’Amérique pour la  période allant du 1er octobre au 31 décembre 2003 ». Or, ce point a été accidentellement omis dans le programme de la
523  journée ce matin dans le mini-journal. Je confirme donc, en vous demandant de bien vouloir excuser le Secrétariat,  qu’aucun changement n’est intervenu dans le programme de cet après-midi, et que le point 11.16 y figure bien. Merci.
63. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I am sure that you will recall that this point was discussed when we were making  some alterations to the timetable for the General Conference. Thank you very much, Secretary.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION IV : RÉSOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS  REPORT OF COMMISSION IV: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN IV: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ IV: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  א א א:א א א  א 第 IV 委员会的报告：决议和建议
64. The PRESIDENT:  We shall now turn to the examination of the report of Commission IV. The relevant document is 31 C/74.  Before giving the floor to the Chairperson of this Commission, I should like to recall that item 8.4, the draft  international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, will be examined separately from the  report and will be the object of a vote. Furthermore, in this case and in conformity with the Rules of Procedure  concerning recommendations to Member States and international conventions covered by the terms of Article IV,  paragraph 4, of the Constitution, a two-thirds majority is required. I would now like to invite the Chairperson of  Commission IV, Ambassador Olabiyi Babalola Joseph Yaï, to present his report.
65.1 M. YAÏ (Bénin), président de la Commission IV :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, j’aimerais tout  d’abord exprimer mes remerciements sincères à tous les membres du Bureau de la Commission IV : M. Tullio Scovazzi  (Italie) ; S. E. M. Adolfo Castells (Uruguay) ; S. E. M. Teiichi Sato (Japon) ; M. Slimane Hachi (Algérie) et M. Tomasz  Orlowski (Pologne) ; rapporteur de notre Commission, dont le soutien chaleureux ne m’a jamais fait défaut et sans  lesquels je n’aurais pu mener à bien nos travaux. Ce fut assurément une entreprise collective !
65.2 Il m’incombe à présent de rendre fidèlement compte de la teneur de nos délibérations, en en faisant ressortir  les points saillants. Par souci de concision, je ne mentionnerai pas les noms des États membres qui ont pris part à la  discussion, sauf lorsque l’un d’eux en a expressément formulé le souhait. Par ailleurs, je vous rappelle que toutes les  décisions que nous avons prises, c’est-à-dire, les recommandations de la Commission IV, figurent dans son rapport écrit,  qui porte la cote 32 C/74.
65.3 Mais d’abord, permettez-moi quelques remarques liminaires. Je voudrais saluer le retour des États-Unis au  sein de l’UNESCO et l’adhésion d’un nouvel État membre, le Timor-Leste. Ces développements confèrent à  l’Organisation une portée encore plus universelle. Cette universalité est d’autant plus précieuse que nous nous sommes  penchés ces derniers jours sur des sujets d’importance mondiale, notamment : le projet de déclaration sur la destruction  intentionnelle du patrimoine culturel, l’avant-projet de convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel et l’opportunité d’une convention internationale sur la diversité culturelle, pour n’en citer que  quelques-uns. La décision d’accroître sensiblement le budget de l’Organisation arrive à point nommé, au moment où  l’UNESCO voit son rôle sur la scène internationale renforcé. Tel est le contexte politique dans lequel la Commission IV  a mené ses travaux.
65.4 J’aimerais également souligner combien il était important, dans ce contexte, que tous les points de notre ordre  du jour soient adoptés par consensus. Qu’ils l’aient été est un fait exceptionnel, de bon augure pour les prochaines  étapes que nous aurons à franchir : d’une part, le processus de ratification de la convention sur le patrimoine culturel  immatériel et, d’autre part, les travaux préliminaires devant aboutir à une convention sur la diversité des contenus  culturels et des expressions culturelles. Je voudrais également rappeler le très haut niveau de représentation des  délégations, souvent présidées par des ministres, et le nombre sans précédent - plus de 300 - des interventions pendant  les débats dans notre Commission. Je me dois de souligner aussi l’ouverture d’esprit et la compréhension mutuelle dont  les délégués ont fait preuve en toute circonstance et de féliciter le Directeur général pour la qualité des documents qui  nous ont été présentés. À cette occasion, nous voudrions remercier encore l’équipe du secrétariat de la Commission qui  nous a secondés avec une compétence et un dévouement forçant l’admiration. Quatre jours durant, la Salle II aura été,  grâce à tous, une « presqu’île majestueuse d’humanité ».
65.5 J’en viens à la lecture de mon rapport. Dans le cadre de la 32e session de la Conférence générale, la  Commission IV s’est réunie du jeudi 9 au mardi 14 octobre. Deux prolongements de séance n’ont pas été de trop pour
524  nous permettre d’examiner les quinze points inscrits à notre ordre du jour. Compte tenu du temps limité qui était imparti  à la Commission, j’ai proposé dès le premier jour qu’un groupe de travail se réunisse en marge de ses travaux sous la  présidence de son Vice-Président, M. Scovazzi, en vue d’affiner le texte du Projet de déclaration de l’UNESCO sur la  destruction intentionnelle du patrimoine culturel, avant présentation à la Commission pour adoption. J’ai également  proposé la création d’un deuxième groupe, de nature informelle celui-là, afin de produire un texte susceptible de  recueillir un consensus sur les points 5.3 et 5.4 : Jérusalem et la mise en oeuvre de la résolution 31 C/31 et Application  de la résolution 31 C/43 concernant les institutions éducatives et culturelles dans les territoires arabes occupés, comme  cela a été le cas pour le deuxième point dans la Commission II. Mes propositions ont été acceptées et la création de ces  deux groupes a grandement facilité le débat au sein de la  Commission. Puisse cette expérience positive servir de  modèle d’organisation efficace des travaux lorsqu’un thème se révèle particulièrement complexe ou délicat.
65.6 Le débat 1 a été consacré à l’examen et à l’adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005,  ainsi qu’à l’examen des projets de résolution présentés par les États membres à ce titre. Ont pris la parole 82 délégués,  un observateur, un représentant d’une organisation intergouvernementale et trois représentants d’organisations non  gouvernementales. Les délégués ont soutenu dans leur majorité le Projet de programme et de budget et félicité le  Directeur général de la clarté et de la pertinence de ce document. Ils ont massivement approuvé le choix des priorités, à  savoir, la diversité culturelle, le dialogue interculturel et le patrimoine - dans ses expressions tant matérielles  qu’immatérielles - en soulignant la nécessité d’encourager les États membres à intégrer ces priorités dans leurs  politiques culturelles nationales.
65.7 Un grand nombre de délégués ont demandé un renforcement des liens intersectoriels, notamment entre le  Secteur de la culture et celui de l’éducation. De nombreux intervenants ont vivement souhaité un accroissement des  ressources budgétaires allouées à la culture, compte tenu de ce que l’UNESCO est la seule organisation internationale  qui mène à l’échelle mondiale une action réfléchie, cohérente et efficace dans le domaine de la culture.
65.8 Une majorité de délégués ont exprimé leur soutien aux activités de promotion du patrimoine mondial et  appuyé la réforme engagée en vue d’une mise en œuvre plus efficace de la Convention de 1972. Nombre d’entre eux  ont demandé que l’on renforce la crédibilité et la représentativité de la Liste du patrimoine mondial en lui consacrant  des ressources financières et humaines additionnelles et en prêtant une attention accrue à sa dimension éducative.
65.9 Les États membres ont fortement appuyé l’action normative de l’UNESCO dans divers domaines culturels.  Dans leur majorité, les délégués se sont félicités de l’Avant-projet de convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du  patrimoine culturel immatériel et ont émis le souhait que ce texte soit adopté par la Conférence générale à sa présente  session. Plus généralement, les délégués ont approuvé l’action menée par l’UNESCO en faveur de la sauvegarde du  patrimoine culturel immatériel, témoignant ainsi d’une volonté plus large de préserver la diversité culturelle en  comblant une lacune dans la protection juridique du patrimoine culturel. Nombre de délégués ont évoqué les limites de  la Déclaration universelle sur la diversité culturelle dues à son caractère non contraignant et souligné la nécessité de  s’engager dans la rédaction d’une convention internationale en la matière.
65.10 Les délégués ont salué et encouragé les efforts menés par le Secteur de la culture dans le domaine de la  protection du patrimoine avant et après un conflit, notamment en Afghanistan et en Iraq, où l’action de l’UNESCO a été  tout particulièrement louée. L’accent a été mis sur la nécessité de lutter contre la destruction intentionnelle et le pillage  des biens culturels ainsi que d’obtenir le retour des biens culturels volés à leur pays d’origine. Au cours de ce débat, on  a également souligné l’importance des programmes relatifs au tourisme culturel, à l’Histoire des civilisations de l’Asie  centrale, à la proclamation des chefs-d’œuvre du patrimoine oral et immatériel, à la sauvegarde des langues en péril et,  enfin, à la promotion des arts et de l’artisanat.
65.11 Le nouveau programme transversal sur les liens entre la diversité culturelle et la biodiversité a été salué par  de nombreux délégués, qui se sont félicités du caractère novateur de cette approche. Beaucoup se sont réjouis du choix  de la Route de l’esclave comme projet phare. Ce projet permettra en effet de porter un nouveau regard sur une période  douloureuse de l’histoire de l’humanité et de contribuer à la lutte contre toutes les formes de discrimination ainsi que  contre les formes modernes de l’esclavage. C’est pourquoi il a été demandé de prolonger ce projet jusqu’en 2007. Les  délégués ont attiré l’attention sur la nécessité de concevoir des approches adaptées à la situation et aux priorités des  petits États membres et des États insulaires, qui peuvent différer considérablement de ceux des grands pays. Plusieurs  délégués ont invité l’UNESCO à encourager davantage les arts et les créateurs contemporains.
65.12 Pour conclure mon rapport sur ce débat, au cours duquel la Commission a examiné 17 projets de résolution  présentés par les États membres au titre du grand programme IV - Culture, j’aimerais attirer votre attention sur l’un  d’eux en particulier. Il s’agit du document 32 C/DR.12, sur lequel une trentaine d’États membres sont intervenus pour  exprimer, d’une part, leur souhait de renforcer la mise en oeuvre de la Convention concernant la protection du  patrimoine mondial, culturel et naturel (1972) et, d’autre part, la nécessité d’allouer des ressources plus importantes à
525  l’ensemble du programme relatif à la culture. À l’issue de ces interventions, il a été décidé par consensus de  recommander à la Conférence de demander au Directeur général d’assurer le renforcement du sous-programme IV.2.1  par une allocation supplémentaire d’un million de dollars des États-Unis. au titre de la contribution des États-Unis  d’Amérique pour la période du 1er octobre au 31 décembre 2003. Enfin, les délégués ont été fermement d’avis qu’un tel  renforcement ne devrait pas se faire au détriment des autres programmes du Secteur de la culture, qui sont tous d’une  importance indéniable et au sujet desquels les délégués ont réitéré leur entière satisfaction. À l’issue du débat, la  Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’approuver l’enveloppe budgétaire globale du grand programme  IV.
65.13 Le débat 2 a porté sur la préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2006-2007 (33 C/5). Y ont  pris part les représentants de 17 États membres et de deux organisations non gouvernementales. Tous ont exprimé leur  satisfaction à l’égard des activités du grand programme IV et réclamé une augmentation générale  des ressources   humaines et  budgétaires allouées au  Secteur de la culture dans le 33 C/5. Tous ont réaffirmé l’importance de l’action  de l’UNESCO en matière de protection du patrimoine culturel et relevé la nécessité de consolider les acquis en se  concentrant, à l’avenir, sur la mise en œuvre et le suivi des instruments normatifs existants et sur la recherche d’une  meilleure interaction entre ces instruments.
65.14 Un grand nombre d’intervenants ont mis l’accent sur le caractère transversal des activités relatives à la  culture et souhaité en conséquence une plus grande interdisciplinarité des programmes. Parmi les propositions  formulées au sujet de nouveaux axes d’action figuraient l’extension du champ du patrimoine culturel immatériel à  l’expression culturelle et artistique contemporaine, la nécessité de recourir à la numérisation pour sauvegarder le  patrimoine culturel audiovisuel, et le suivi des actions relatives aux chefs-d’œuvre du patrimoine oral et immatériel de  l’humanité. Il a été également suggéré d’inclure dans le 33 C/5 un plan d’action plus concret concernant la mise en  œuvre et le suivi de la Déclaration universelle de l’UNESCO sur la diversité culturelle. Plusieurs délégués ont rappelé la  nécessité de mettre l’accent sur la revitalisation du Plan d’action de Stockholm, notamment en mentionnant plus  explicitement les activités de suivi de ce plan dans le 33 C/5, y compris en ce qui concerne les indicateurs culturels.
65.15 S’agissant des thèmes transversaux et des activités se rapportant au dialogue interculturel, plusieurs orateurs  ont jugé d’une importance fondamentale de mieux intégrer les actions en faveur des jeunes dans la mise en œuvre des  politiques culturelles et insisté sur la nécessité d’élaborer des programmes spécifiques les concernant, y compris par  l’utilisation des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication. Les activités relatives aux « routes »  ont recueilli un soutien général. Une délégation a suggéré que le 33 C/5 fasse une plus grande place aux activités en  faveur du dialogue interreligieux. À l’issue de ce riche débat, la Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale  d’adopter, dans son intégralité, le projet de résolution 32 C/COM.I, II, III, IV, V/DR.1 tel que modifié par les  Commissions qui l’avaient précédemment examiné.
65.16 Dans le cadre du débat 3 les délégués de 15 États membres et le représentant d’une organisation non  gouvernementale ont pris la parole au sujet des points 5.2 - Proclamation de 2004 Année internationale de  commémoration de la lutte contre l’esclavage et de son abolition -, 5.12 - Proposition visant à octroyer le statut de  Centre régional placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO à la Fondation nordique du patrimoine mondial -, et 7.2 - Projet  d’amendements aux statuts du Fonds international pour la promotion de la culture.
65.17 En ce qui concerne la proclamation de 2004 « Année internationale de commémoration de la lutte contre  l’esclavage et de son abolition », la Commission a estimé que cet événement devrait avoir une portée avant tout  internationale. Mention a été faite de la nécessité de briser le silence en restaurant la mémoire, non seulement par la  recherche, l’étude des traditions orales, les itinéraires historiques, les archives nationales, la création d’un prix à la  mémoire de Toussaint Louverture, les échanges entre créateurs et artistes de tous genres, mais aussi par l’éducation,  notamment dans le cadre du Système des écoles associées.
65.18 La proposition tendant à l’octroi du statut de centre régional placé sous l’égide de l’UNESCO à la Fondation  nordique du patrimoine mondial a été applaudie par l’ensemble des intervenants. Quelques délégués ont exprimé le  souhait que le champ d’action de cette Fondation soit étendu non seulement à l’Asie et au Pacifique, mais encore à  l’Afrique, ainsi qu’à d’autres régions du monde, notamment l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes. Nous avons pris note de  l’intervention de la Norvège concernant le budget de la Fondation, qui a été augmenté de 40 % pour l’année 2004.
65.19 Pour ce qui est, enfin, du projet d’amendements aux statuts du Fonds international pour la promotion de la  culture, trois délégations ont posé des questions au sujet du fonctionnement du Fonds, qui portaient notamment sur la  composition de son conseil d’administration, ainsi que sur ses mécanismes financiers et institutionnels.
65.20 Le débat 4 a été consacré à l’Avant-projet de convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel. Lors de ce débat, 61 États membres, un observateur et deux organisations non gouvernementales
526  ont pris la parole. Le Président du Groupe des 77 a indiqué que le groupe était favorable à l’adoption de l’avant-projet  de convention qui figure dans le document 32 C/26 du Secrétariat en tant que convention de l’UNESCO sans débat à la  présente session de la Conférence générale. Une très large majorité de délégués s’est également exprimée sans réserve  en faveur de l’adoption du projet de convention à la présente session, notamment au double motif qu’il est urgent de  sauvegarder le patrimoine culturel immatériel en raison de sa vulnérabilité et que le projet de convention viendra  combler une lacune de l’action normative visant à la protection du patrimoine culturel dans son ensemble.
65.21 Quelques délégués ont toutefois exprimé des préoccupations à l’égard du texte du projet de convention tel  que présenté, et ce, pour des raisons différentes. Le Danemark aurait souhaité un mécanisme de financement lié au  budget ordinaire de l’UNESCO et non pas des contributions obligatoires des États parties. Le Royaume-Uni, rappelant  le rôle des communautés et des détenteurs d’éléments de ce patrimoine, s’est dit préoccupé surtout par la question de la  propriété du patrimoine culturel immatériel, qui ne devrait pas selon lui relever de la compétence des gouvernements ou  des entités supranationales. Il a souligné que la Liste des oeuvres représentatives ne devrait pas être conçue comme  l’équivalent de celle du Patrimoine mondial, vu son aspect limitatif, qui correspond mal à des domaines aussi sensibles.  Pour les Pays-Bas, le mécanisme institutionnel de la convention ne devrait pas devenir un modèle pour l’élaboration  d’autres instruments internationaux, car en général il est préférable de recourir à des mécanismes de moindre ampleur,  qui sont considérés comme plus efficaces. L’Australie, pour sa part, souhaiterait un approfondissement de la définition  du patrimoine culturel immatériel employée dans la convention afin de permettre à tous les États de mettre en oeuvre les  mesures prévues par la convention aux niveaux national et local. Le Mexique, tout en appuyant résolument le projet de  convention, a souligné qu’il aurait souhaité que la référence aux peuples autochtones - pueblos indígenas en espagnol -  si chère au contexte mexicain, soit dûment reflétée dans le texte de la convention. L’Islande, quant à elle, a exprimé des  doutes quant à l’utilisation de l’expression « performing arts » dans le texte anglais pour désigner les arts du spectacle.  Plusieurs délégués ont informé la Commission des initiatives en cours ou législations déjà en vigueur dans leur pays  pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel. Il a également été précisé que la Convention contribuera au  développement durable, au dialogue interculturel et pourra être un facteur de cohésion sociale au niveau national.
65.22 En ce qui concerne le projet de résolution 32 C/COM. IV/DR.3 Rev. présenté par la Fédération de Russie, la  Roumanie, le Kazakhstan et la Géorgie, visant à inclure un paragraphe additionnel dans le Préambule du texte de la  Convention, la Fédération de Russie, parlant au nom des auteurs, ayant précisé que ce texte n’était pas un  amendement  à proprement parler, mais une clarification, la Commission a pris note de cette clarification. En effet, la proposition  russe visait à expliciter l’esprit de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme, notamment par une mention  spécifique des principes contenus dans la Charte des Nations Unies concernant la paix et la sécurité internationale, et en  particulier du fait que la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel devait être fondée exclusivement sur la tolérance.  Cette clarification fera l’objet d’une mention explicite dans les Actes de la Conférence générale.
65.23 La Commission a ensuite approuvé par consensus et par acclamation le texte de l’avant-projet de convention  figurant dans le document du Secrétariat, et recommande à la Conférence générale d’en faire la cinquième convention  de l’UNESCO relative à la protection du patrimoine culturel. Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, la liste est  longue, de ceux et celles qui, experts comme hommes et femmes de bonne volonté, officiellement ou dans l’anonymat,  mais toujours mus par une conviction à la mesure des enjeux, ont contribué à l’avènement de ce projet, qui est déjà un  événement. Qu’ils soient ici tous remerciés. Ce serait injustice que de taire le nom de l’artisan principal de ce projet de  convention, j’ai nommé le juge Mohamed Bedjaoui. Recevez, cher frère et ami, nos remerciements les plus chaleureux.  Je ne doute pas, honorables délégués, que vous suivrez l’avis de la Commission et que vous ferez ensuite tout ce qui est  en votre pouvoir pour amener vos gouvernements respectifs à ratifier cette convention dans les meilleurs délais, afin  que commence promptement l’étape de sa mise en oeuvre. Il y a à cela plusieurs raisons, dont la principale tient dans les  paroles prononcées à l’intérieur de cette même enceinte, il y a quelques décennies, par Amadou Hampaté Bâ, le sage de  l’Afrique, à savoir que « chaque vieillard qui meurt est une bibliothèque qui brûle ».
65.24 Notre débat 5 portait sur l’opportunité de l’élaboration d’un instrument normatif international concernant la  diversité culturelle. Sur ce point, 81 États, dont les Philippines au nom du Groupe des 77, un observateur, une  organisation intergouvernementale et deux organisations non gouvernementales ont pris la parole. Dans leurs  interventions, les délégations ont abordé principalement les questions suivantes : premièrement, le mandat et le rôle de  l’UNESCO quant à l’opportunité et à la nature d’un nouvel instrument juridique ; deuxièmement, la portée et le champ  d’application de l’instrument normatif ; en troisième lieu, la coopération avec les organisations internationales  concernées et l’articulation avec les instruments existants ; et, enfin, l’organisation des travaux pour mener à bien  l’action normative.
65.25 Dans leur très grande majorité, les orateurs ont considéré que l’UNESCO devait poursuivre son action  normative en faveur de la protection de la diversité culturelle et qu’elle était l’organisme le plus approprié pour  accueillir un tel instrument. La majorité des États ont souhaité que cet instrument revête la forme d’une convention  internationale. Par ailleurs, la plupart des orateurs ont précisé que le champ d’application du futur instrument devrait
527  porter sur la protection de la diversité des contenus culturels et des expressions artistiques véhiculés par les industries  culturelles, domaine qui ne bénéficie pas d’une protection juridique spécifique à l’échelle internationale. Ces mêmes  États ont rappelé que la culture, support des identités, ne peut être considérée comme une marchandise comme les  autres, à l’échelle tant nationale qu’internationale, et qu’il était nécessaire de promouvoir une dimension multilatérale  des politiques culturelles. On pense ici aux vers prophétiques de l’inégalable Octavio Paz :  « El dinero no dice: tú  El dinero dice cúanto  Saber contar no es saber cantar »
65.26 Plusieurs États ont démontré, à travers leur expérience nationale du multiculturalisme et leur histoire, le bien- fondé d’une action normative dynamique consacrant le pluralisme culturel et le dialogue interculturel comme facteurs  de développement durable et de cohésion sociale. Dans leur grande majorité, les intervenants ont rappelé que la  philosophie qui sous-tend le projet de convention sur la diversité culturelle est animée par un esprit d’ouverture et de  dialogue et non par une volonté protectionniste. Il a également été considéré que l’UNESCO devrait s’attacher à  renforcer les capacités des pays en développement, notamment dans le domaine des industries culturelles. D’autres  États membres ont souligné la nécessité d’une analyse plus approfondie des enjeux de la diversité culturelle et ont  considéré qu’une décision sur l’opportunité d’une action normative dans ce domaine était, à ce stade, prématurée. À cet  effet, un processus de consultation des organisations internationales concernées par cette question, à savoir : l’OMC,  l’OMPI et la CNUCED, devrait être lancé par l’UNESCO. La majorité des États, ayant souhaité que la question de la  diversité culturelle fasse l’objet d’une convention internationale, ont souligné l’urgence de soumettre à la Conférence  générale à sa 33e session, c’est-à-dire en 2005, un avant-projet allant dans ce sens. De nombreux délégués ont manifesté  le souhait de participer activement aux travaux d’élaboration de cet avant-projet.
65.27 À l’issue d’un long débat sur les deux propositions soumises par le Secrétariat, d’une part, et par les États- Unis d’Amérique, d’autre part, et après une suspension de séance, la Commission est parvenue à rédiger un texte de  consensus qui a été approuvé par acclamation. Cette résolution dispose que la protection de la diversité des contenus  culturels et des expressions artistiques doit faire l’objet d’une convention internationale. Le projet de résolution présenté  par un autre État membre sur le même point n’a pas été retenu par la Commission, étant donné qu’il portait sur le Projet  de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005. Par ailleurs, lors de l’adoption du rapport de la Commission, la Belgique a  exprimé le souhait que l’article 19 de la Déclaration universelle des droits de l’homme soit repris in extenso dans le  quatrième considérant de la résolution.  (Le Président de la Commission IV poursuit en anglais)
65.28 Mr President, honourable delegates, perhaps more than any other culture commission in many years, we have  been faced with the challenge of finding common ground amidst very different viewpoints, in particular with regard to  international normative instruments. I think we have accomplished that task remarkably well!
65.29 Our debate 6 was devoted to discussing the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the  Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property and the draft UNESCO declaration concerning the  intentional destruction of cultural heritage. The delegates strongly emphasized the relevance of the 1970 Convention  and presented the efforts made by their governments to revise national legislation and/or to adopt specific measures in  this field, such as cultural and museological management and the introduction of specific penalties for illicit trafficking  and forgery. One delegate informed the Commission of the recent commitment of his government to ratify the  Convention.
65.30 While finding the preparation of periodical State Parties’ reports useful and necessary, some countries  considered that this was not the only way to promote the Convention. In this regard, speakers underlined the importance  of a database, public awareness-raising, capacity-building of museum staff, police and customs officers, as well as the  creation of inventories on heritage and increased control over excavations. One delegate stressed the actions taken by  his government to fight illicit trafficking on the art market. To give further impetus to the Convention, it was also  suggested that an international mechanism be set up to monitor and enhance intergovernmental cooperation in the fight  against illicit trafficking. One Member State also proposed that the mandate of the Intergovernmental Committee for  Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin and its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation  be strengthened “inter alia in terms of proposals of mediation and conciliation for Member States”. At the request of  several Member States, the frequency of reporting by the Committee was revised to every four years instead of every  six years. After further discussion, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt this proposal.
65.31 With regard to the draft UNESCO declaration concerning the intentional destruction of cultural heritage, the  Vice-Chairperson, Professor Scovazzi (Italy), who had chaired the working group on that item, presented its methods of
528  work and noted that some members, while not obstructing the submission of a text without brackets to the Commission,  regretted that it did not fully reflect their opinions. The group was composed of two representatives from each electoral  group, though it was in fact open-ended, in accordance with a decision endorsed by the Commission at its first meeting.  The group met six times, including Sunday, and produced a consensual text that was agreed upon by all its members.
65.32 Although the delegate of Greece pointed out slight differences between the English and French versions,  which will be taken care of by the Secretariat, all the speakers agreed on the principles of the declaration and confirmed  their readiness to adopt the consensual text. Considering the great importance of the issue, Italy, supported by Hungary,  expressed regret that the consensual text agreed upon was not sufficiently advanced. Italy hoped that UNESCO would  develop a more binding legal text on the intentional destruction of cultural heritage in the near future, particularly since  the scope of most of the provisions of the present text had been weakened during the final stages of its preparation. Italy,  Belgium and Hungary, having declared that they accepted the consensual text, nevertheless regretted the deletion of the  reference to the cultural heritage “of special interest for the community directly affected by such destruction”, in section  VI and especially in section VII of the text, thus weakening the impact of the declaration. Moreover, Belgium also  regretted that the notion of reparation had not been retained in section VI of the declaration. The Commission decided  to recommend to the General Conference the consensual text as amended by the Commission, with the addition of a  reference to “UNESCO recommendations” in section V in the light of the debate.
65.33 The Commission also took note of the following two reports: report of the Intergovernmental Committee for  Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation on  its activities (2002-2003) (32 C/REP.15) and the report of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of the  World Cultural and Natural Heritage on its activities (2002-2003) (32 C/REP.14).
65.34 With regard to debate 7, devoted to Jerusalem and the implementation of 31 C/Resolution 31 (item 5.3) and  implementation of 31 C/Resolution 43 concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories  (item 5.4), the members of the informal group, under the skilful and diplomatic guidance of Ambassador Francesco  Caruso of Italy, enabled the Commission to reach agreement upon a consensual resolution. When given the floor,  Mr Caruso presented a brief report on the work of the informal group and expressed his gratitude to the members of the  Secretariat who had enabled the group to meet day and night, including over the weekend, and had assisted them on  technical aspects in every way. Mr Caruso also thanked the delegates of Palestine and Israel for their “enlightened  approach”.
65.35 The Commission then adopted the draft resolution on Jerusalem and the implementation of 31 C/Resolution
31 by consensus and acclamation, without debate. The delegate of Israel stressed that, for the first time, the revised draft  resolution on Jerusalem could be considered as a “depoliticized, professional document within UNESCO’s fields of  competence”. The representative of Palestine voiced his hope that this resolution would be followed by tangible  progress and concrete actions in the matters concerned. In the spirit of the consensus reached by Commission II on the  resolution concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories (item 5.4), the Commission  recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution by consensus and acclamation.
65.36 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after four days of intensive debates – and I would like to point out that  the number of hours we spent in the Commission was double the number planned – we respected the timeframe  foreseen for our work. I wish to stress the goodwill, openness and mutual respect of all the Member States in their  efforts to reach consensus, even on very complex issues. I must emphasize that never once, despite the complexity of  these issues, did we have to proceed to a vote. Let me finally draw attention to the fact that both the quantity and the  high-profile quality of the statements made, coupled with the strong request for additional financial support to the  culture programme, stand as living evidence of UNESCO’s increasing worldwide role and responsibility and of the  pivotal role of culture in politics and society. I hope that I have managed to convey to you a taste of the richness of the  discussions and the complexity of the issues that were dealt with during the meetings of the Commission. We did not  always agree – indeed, it would have been boring if we had – but I am pleased to state that our respective sensitivities  have, once again, reaffirmed the dynamics of our cultural diversity.  (The Chairperson of Commission IV continues in French)
65.37 Honorables délégués, un rapport du Président de la Commission IV, chargé de la culture, ne saurait prétendre  conclure. Je terminerai donc par une ouverture, ouverture sur ce qu’il nous reste à accomplir. Et j’emprunte pour ce  faire les mots du poète français ou franco-roumain, Tristan Tzara : « Illimitée puissance du vouloir, telle est la dignité  de l’homme aujourd’hui : lutter pour démanteler les fortifications autour de lui, saper leurs misérables fondements, en  attendant qu’elles s’écroulent de tout le poids de leur misère absurde qui fait que l’homme rampe encore parmi les  détritus de trop stupides préjugés ». Je vous remercie.
66. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador Yaï. Please allow me to congratulate you on that excellent and rich  report. I know that Commission IV had a very sensitive and heavy agenda at this session. I would like to congratulate  you and all members of your Commission warmly for the work successfully accomplished under your skilful, serene  and wise guidance. Ladies and gentlemen, I now draw your attention to document 32 C/74 and ask if there are any  comments or observations.
67.1 Mr AZIZ (Afghanistan):  Mr President, thank you so much. I must congratulate the distinguished Chairperson of Commission IV for  the way in which he has conducted the work of the Commission – not an easy task, but one he successfully  accomplished. I also wish to state once more here, as I did in Commission, that the return of the cultural properties to  their countries of origin is one of the fundamental principles of this great Organization. Cultural property represents the  identity of the people of the country to which it belongs and therefore every effort should be made by the Member  States concerned to have it restored to their territory. This will inspire the Organization to work towards ensuring that  stolen cultural property that belongs to the sites of a State – and in the case of my country belongs to the whole of  humanity – is returned to its original site. We are working towards that and we wish to cooperate with the Member  States concerned, and particularly with the Director-General. I also wish at this stage to thank the Director-General, his  staff and the divisions concerned for all the efforts made and for the measures taken to secure the return of cultural  heritage properties and cultural items to my country, Afghanistan.
67.2 Secondly, Mr President, as I stated in Commission IV, we agree with the UNESCO declaration concerning  the intentional destruction of cultural heritage. We further state that the intentional destruction of the cultural heritage of  any country, of any nation anywhere, is a crime against culture and therefore a crime against humanity. We wish to  maintain that statement, which we made in Commission IV. I believe that every effort should be made by this great  Organization to bring to justice, certainly with existing international law, those who have perpetrated that crime or those  who perpetrate that crime in the future. They should beyond a doubt be brought to justice, in the proper courts where  such courts exist, or in cooperation with the Member States. I thank you, Mr President.
(69) Mr GHUBASH (United Arab Emirates) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by thanking Ambassador Yaï, the Chairperson of  Commission IV, for his praiseworthy efforts and his remarkable skill in overseeing the work of that Commission. The  subjects with which the Commission had to deal are, as you know, pivotal, important and essential to the recovery of the  cultural and intellectual identity of our Organization. This vital question requires a constant effort of us all. The  widespread support for the preliminary draft international convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural  heritage is an important indication of worldwide concern with this aspect of the human heritage. This convention is in  itself one of UNESCO’s most important recent accomplishments. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate  Judge Mohammed Bedjaoui for his efforts in preparing this historic document. These conventions that UNESCO has  produced, beginning with the 1972 Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and ending
530  with the convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, not to overlook the Convention on the  Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, are all major accomplishments, and I should like to take advantage of  this opportunity to thank the Director-General and his team of specialists for these achievements. I should also like to  urge the Director-General, on behalf of my country, to establish the necessary mechanisms to begin laying the  groundwork for the preparation of a draft convention on cultural diversity, so that it can be submitted to the next session  of the General Conference in 2005. Lastly, I should like to express my country’s support for the admirable remarks of the  representative of Afghanistan and the important, vital points that he has raised. Thank you.
70. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of the United Arab Emirates. I now invite the  distinguished representative of Togo to take the floor.
71.1 M. AGBOBLI (Togo) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Le débat sur la diversité culturelle représente aujourd’hui un défi  pour l’humanité tout entière et surtout pour des régions comme l’Afrique, ma région, qui ont eu à souffrir des méfaits  d’une longue période de domination. C’est pourquoi nous sommes fiers que ce dossier sensible ait pu être traité avec  neutralité par la présidence de la Commission IV. À Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Yaï, nous voudrions adresser toutes nos  félicitations pour la pertinence des points de vue qu’il a exprimés tout au long des débats. La délégation togolaise  souhaite que l’UNESCO veille à éviter que les règles de l’OMC puissent un jour affaiblir la stratégie que nous avons  mise en place pour préserver à jamais cette diversité culturelle. Nous souhaitons vivement que le Directeur général de  l’UNESCO fasse rapidement parvenir aux États membres les conventions appropriées pour quelles puissent être  ratifiées à temps et nous permettent d’agir.
71.2 Puisque l’occasion m’est donnée d’intervenir, je voudrais féliciter le Département Afrique de tout ce qu’il  fait à l’égard de notre zone très sensible et marginalisée dans un monde tourmenté afin que nous puissions à l’avenir  agir dans le sens du redressement. Nous souscrivons entièrement à toutes les résolutions qui ont été approuvées par la  Commission IV et adressons encore une fois nos félicitations à tous les États qui ont participé au débat. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
72. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now invite the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania to take the floor.
73. Mr SHEYA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like first of all to congratulate Commission IV for the good work  accomplished, and I particularly commend the good leadership of its Chairperson, Professor Olabiyi Yaï, who is a  brother African and an experienced diplomat. I congratulate him personally for his report, which is very comprehensive  and informative. The decisions reached by consensus by this Commission on some of the most critical issues of our  time – and I would mention in particular the preliminary draft international convention for the safeguarding of the  intangible cultural heritage and the question of the desirability of drawing up an international standard-setting  instrument on cultural diversity – are indeed commendable. I trust that this plenary will adopt this report with a  commendation to the Chairperson of the Commission and those who took part in its deliberations. I thank you.
74. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, distinguished representative of the United Republic of Tanzania. I now give the floor to the  representative of Ecuador.
(75.1) Mr PRECIADO BEDOYA (Ecuador) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like most sincerely to congratulate the Ambassador  of Benin for his excellent leadership of Commission IV, in the course of which sensitive items examined during this
32nd session of the General Conference of UNESCO were approved. Mr President, please allow me a brief moment to  say a few things, very few, which I do not want to keep bottled up inside me and must tell you directly, face to face.
(75.2) Firstly, on behalf of Ecuador I thank all our sister States of Latin America and the Caribbean for the decision  to back the candidatures of the countries of the group, each one elected today to a seat on the Executive Board. My thanks  also go to the Member States of the Organization throughout the world, which ultimately ratified that group decision. It  seems, Mr President, that I am the first person of African descent to have come to UNESCO as ambassador of one of  those distant multi-ethnic, multicultural Andean countries, also reached by the African diaspora, and who, as such, will  represent it in this high body of institutional governance. There are atavistic ties, visible shared signs between you and me,  Mr President, and I am sure that at the time of your election you perceived and figured out the message of warm  congratulations which I sent you, with drumbeats going deep in my heart as it were. Because at that time I was not  scheduled to take the floor, whereas drumbeats are an unmistakable language which you and I know and sense from long  ago.
(75.3) But I am not bent here on extolling our negritude since I am well aware that ethnic inflation of any kind  implies a flagrant and unforgivable negation of humanity. I only wish to tell you, on behalf of the handfuls of those  Negroes who seas ago, crossings ago, far distances ago, as I say in one of my poems, of those who for centuries have  been living scattered across the southern part of the American continent, that it is extremely encouraging that amidst the  gloomy dynamic trends afoot in today’s world, UNESCO, whose General Conference appointed its President for the
32nd session unanimously, with votes of all colours and origins, as a living expression of its being a transparent vortex of  othernesses now under your able leadership, has as in the case of Commission IV adopted wise resolutions. These  measures will enable UNESCO to continue as the forum fostering a grand intercultural gathering, the space of  enlightenment where the best powers of the universal mind come together and are channelled to beneficial ends.
(75.4) What is also very encouraging is the firm conviction that here individuals enjoy the wonderful privilege of  intelligence for the edifying purpose of using it in quest of the best projections for the future of humanity, that humanity  which is constantly renewing its eager hope in this noble body watching over it. In keeping with what I have been saying,  allow me to end with a brief poem of mine, of scarcely 10 lines, entitled “Embrace”, which I dedicate to all the delegates  to this Conference. “When you enter my house, which is right in the roadway, squared up to the wind, in yesterday’s  somewhere, where centuries ago I razed the walls and rent out the windows, know that if I am not there, I went forth in  search of you. Leave me the token of your whatever name, so that later upon returning, I will have found you.” Thank  you, Mr President.
76. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je remercie le délégué de l’Équateur. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué d’Haïti.
77. M. EMMANUEL (Haïti) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La délégation d’Haïti voudrait remercier toute l’équipe de la Commission IV,  en particulier son Président, M. l’Ambassadeur Yaï, pour le travail si difficile qu’il a su mener avec tact et dextérité  pour aboutir à l’adoption des projets de résolution par consensus. Vous me permettrez, Monsieur le Président, de  présenter aussi mes remerciements au Directeur général et à l’équipe du Secteur de la culture pour toutes les initiatives  prises en faveur de mon pays, Haïti, en vue de la commémoration du bicentenaire de son indépendance. Je suis en  particulier reconnaissant à toute l’assemblée qui a manifesté une grande solidarité à l’égard de notre pays en soutenant  ce que vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, avez proposé, à savoir la création d’un prix international « Toussaint  Louverture ». Cet ancien esclave, devenu Gouverneur de Saint-Domingue, oubliant les humiliations du passé, a voulu  créer à Saint-Domingue une société multiraciale de blancs, de noirs et d’hommes de couleur. Quand j’ai vu dans cette  salle, tous les délégués d’États membres, tous les présents, y compris les représentants d’ONG, apporter unanimement  leur appui à ce projet, j’ai ressenti une immense émotion devant l’hommage rendu à cet homme exceptionnel, parmi  toutes les personnalités remarquables de son époque. Je vous remercie tous du plus profond de mon cœur .
78. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur d’Haïti. Je donne la parole maintenant au délégué du Sénégal.
79. M. DIOUF (Sénégal) :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je voudrais à mon tour féliciter le Président  de la Commission IV. Nous avons pu apprécier son intelligence, sa compétence et la remarquable aisance avec laquelle  il a dirigé nos travaux. Je voudrais aussi me féliciter des résultats auxquels nous avons abouti et dire, tout en adressant  des encouragements au Directeur général, que nous souhaiterions que des moyens substantiels soient consentis au  Secteur de la culture. Il y a quelques jours, nous nous sommes interrogés sur la place de l’UNESCO dans le concert  mondial ; or, il va sans dire qu’aujourd’hui les problèmes culturels doivent primer dans la vision que nous voulons  donner à notre institution. Je voudrais donc que, sur la base du consensus auquel nous sommes parvenus, nous  engagions, tous autant que nous sommes, des actions en direction de la culture, de manière à ce que notre Organisation  reprenne sa place dans le concert international. Je vous remercie.
80. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je vous remercie beaucoup Excellence. Je donne maintenant la parole au délégué du Nigéria.
81. Ms ALUKO (Nigeria):  Thank you, Mr President. We wish to congratulate the Chairperson of Commission IV, Ambassador Olabiyi  Babalola Yaï, for the careful manner in which the work of the Commission was handled, leading to consensus on all the  delicate issues which the Commission dealt with. We urge the Director-General to do all that is necessary to ensure that  the decisions reached are implemented. Congratulations. Félicitations.
(84) Dr AL-SABAH (Kuwait) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank all the  hard-working members of Commission IV, including in particular the Chairperson, the Ambassador of Benin, and the  Rapporteur, the Ambassador of Poland. I should also like to thank all the members of the Secretariat for their cooperation,  including in particular Mr Mounir Bouchenaki, Assistant Director-General for Culture, and all those who worked with  him, whose admirable efforts have resulted in the preparation of the documents submitted to this Commission. On behalf  of Kuwait, I thank all the States that elected Kuwait as a member of the World Heritage Committee. Thank you,  Mr President.
84. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Uganda.
85. Ms BAKOKO-BAKORU (Uganda):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to congratulate you and thank Commission IV for its very  good report. Cultural heritage and cultural diversity are increasingly central to Africa’s development as a region. As you  know, besides being the dark continent and the poorest continent, we are also afflicted by diseases like HIV/AIDS, and  so intergenerational learning is becoming crucial if the adults are to learn from the children and the children to learn  from the adults. Mr President, I know you are a very seasoned diplomat and educationist and I believe that you will  work vigorously to ensure that these recommendations will be implemented. I thank you and your team.
86. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Uganda. I now invite the representative of Guatemala  to take the floor.
(87) Mr TORRES MAROQUÍN (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, should like to take the floor to express my warm congratulations  to the members of Commission IV, particularly its Chairperson, for this very meticulous report he has presented to us. I  am from a country with a very abundant intangible heritage and not only should I like to endorse the report but also, on  behalf of Guatemala, our delegation endorses the item concerning a proposed convention on the intangible heritage.  Thank you very much.
88. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of Guatemala. I now invite the representative of India to  take the floor.
89.1 Ms SABAHARWAL (India):  Thank you very much, Mr President. It is only appropriate that so many delegations should ask for the floor  to pay their tribute to the chairmanship of Ambassador Yaï for the excellent manner in which he conducted the work of  Commission IV and to compliment all the officials of the Culture Sector under the leadership of Mr Bouchenaki. Each  of them made a distinct contribution and played a distinct role in the specific programmes that were taken up for  consideration in the Culture Commission.
89.2 We fully agree that this has been a historic session for the Culture Commission, which had on its anvil  several normative instruments, for adoption or for further consideration and elaboration. Particularly praiseworthy is the  fact that, under the chairmanship of Ambassador Yaï, we were able to have a free, full and fair debate and reach  decisions through consensus. This will certainly enrich the process of elaborating the provision of the future normative  instruments that the public will look at. At the same time the debate alleviated and addressed the misgivings, doubts or  questions that some of us had on certain provisions of the instruments we were adopting at this session of the General  Conference.
89.3 So we would like wholeheartedly to commend Ambassador Yaï. We would also like to take this opportunity  to reiterate the position we took in the Commission that this is a sector which needs further resources. We therefore  welcome the outcome of the recommendations of the Commission, for now we can look forward to resources for both  the tangible and the intangible heritage. We also welcome the mention of the 1970 Convention relating to the return or  restitution of cultural properties. I think there has been, for the first time, some marginal progress in terms of looking at  the activities of the Intergovernmental Committee and seeing how UNESCO action can be made more credible and  more effective.
89.4 On the intangible cultural heritage, I would hasten to add that this action is taking place at the same time as  the launching by my government of a national mission on India’s intangible cultural heritage, so we are extremely  pleased and look forward to synergistic cooperation with UNESCO in this field.
89.5 We will equally play a constructive role in the elaboration of the normative instrument on cultural diversity.  We are also satisfied at the successful outcome of the Declaration concerning the Intentional Destruction of Cultural  Heritage and are happy that it could be negotiated at this session in a pioneering and pragmatic manner that will  preserve the credibility of UNESCO in such initiatives. While on this subject, India would like to stress that such  initiatives undoubtedly need to be considered by experts but should also at the right moment, be submitted for
534  consideration by governmental experts, so that UNESCO’s efforts in this area may be, as I have just said, pioneering  but at the same time offer a practical and credible role for UNESCO. Thank you very much.
90. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, distinguished representative of India. I now call the representative of the Central African  Republic.
91.1 M. KOMBOT-NAGUEMON (République centrafricaine) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La République centrafricaine est un pays bien loin d’ici, mais je ne voudrais  pas la laisser lointaine et silencieuse dans ce grand débat très intéressant sur la diversité culturelle. Merci d’avoir présidé  la Commission chargée de la culture, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Yaï, du Bénin - ce quartier latin de l’Afrique ; il vous  revenait d’assumer ces fonctions et nous en sommes heureux et fiers.
91.2 Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, Monsieur le Président et Monsieur le Directeur général, je voudrais simplement  souhaiter qu’au moment où il sera question des suites à donner aux décisions que nous venons de prendre, il soit tenu  compte, afin que la symphonie de la culture universelle ne reste pas inachevée, des minorités que constituent dans nos  pays les Pygmées, qui sont pratiquement le berceau de l’humanité et dont la culture reste très mal connue. C’est là mon  souhait le plus fervent. Merci encore pour tous les efforts qui sont faits en faveur de la préservation de la diversité  culturelle et toutes nos félicitations. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
92. le PRÉSIDENT :   Je donne la parole au délégué de la Mauritanie.
93. M. OULD KHALIFA (Mauritanie) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président, de me donner la parole alors que ce débat très important touche à sa fin. Je ne  faillirai pas à l’occasion qui m’est donnée de saluer à nouveau mon frère l’Ambassadeur Yaï, qui est également un  collègue à double titre parce que diplomate et enseignant. Je le félicité très chaleureusement à l’instar de tous les autres  orateurs. On reconnaît en lui l’homme de consensus, l’homme qui tempère les énergies débordantes pour ramener le  calme et l’entente. Permettez-moi aussi de féliciter le Secteur de la culture et toute l’équipe du Sous-Directeur général,  M. Mounir Bouchenaki, qui a déployé beaucoup d’efforts depuis les tout premiers débuts. Je ne saurais pas non plus  passer sous silence le nom du professeur Bedjaoui, qui a engagé, avec le concours du Directeur général, le cycle des  réunions intergouvernementales au cours desquelles a été préparée cette convention internationale pour la sauvegarde  du patrimoine culturel immatériel, si importante pour mon pays. Je tiens de plus à remercier le Directeur général et, à  travers lui, le Japon qui a financé la plupart des réunions intergouvernementales et à féliciter l’ensemble des membres  de la Commission qui ont fait en sorte que nous ayons un rapport de qualité entre les mains, rapport auquel mon pays  souscrit entièrement. Je vous remercie.
94. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Merci beaucoup, cher collègue. La parole est au délégué de la Colombie.
(95) Ms VÉLEZ JARA (Colombia) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Ambassador Yaï, the delegation of Colombia would like to acknowledge the skill  and certainty with which you led Commission IV. Achieving consensus on the crucial matters debated in the past week  merits our most sincere and warm congratulations. We should also like to thank Mr Bouchenaki, Mr Bedjaoui and the  Secretariat’s Culture team for the organization and running of this Commission. Thank you.
96. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The Chairperson and Commission IV will  certainly have taken note of your commendation. I consider then that, in the absence of any objections, the plenary takes  note of the report of Commission IV, and adopts the resolutions proposed therein.
97.1 Mr MILLER (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. The United States of America acknowledges and supports the wish of each nation  to preserve and promote its unique cultural values and identity in a culturally diverse global society. We believe that  UNESCO has an important role to play in promoting cultural diversity within and among countries. We understand that  the overwhelming majority of Member States came to this Conference prepared to support a resolution calling for work  to begin on a convention on cultural diversity. The United States of America appreciates the willingness of our fellow  Members to modify the resolution to address some of the concerns we have raised and it is in this spirit of cooperation  that we did not ask for a vote on this resolution. We plan to work constructively with all Members to address our  concerns during the negotiating process on the convention.
97.2 Mr President, we remain seriously concerned that the proposed convention could conflict with the mandates  of other international organizations, could seek to legitimize restrictions on the flow of cultural information, or goods or  services, and could have serious human rights implications. It is our hope that, in undertaking consultations with WTO,  UNCTAD and WIPO, the Director-General will seek to ensure that the proposed cultural diversity convention does not  conflict with, nor undermine, existing legal structures and obligations.
97.3 The UNESCO Constitution states that among UNESCO’s primary purposes is to “recommend such  international agreements as may be necessary to promote the free flow of ideas by word and image” and to “initiate  methods of international cooperation calculated to give the people of all countries access” to the materials of others. We  trust that, as work proceeds on the proposed convention, Member States will keep these purposes in mind. We recall  that some 20 years ago UNESCO embarked on an effort to regulate the flow of information, an effort now broadly  acknowledged as misguided. We hope the current effort can avoid the mistakes of that endeavour.
97.4 We hope that, as work on the cultural diversity convention progresses, we will focus on the ways we can  work together to promote and support cultural diversity, both within and among nations, and not on ways to insulate  ourselves from each other and from the artistic, social and political enrichment that diverse sources of culture bring to  our lives. Thank you, Mr President.
98. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, distinguished representative of the United States of America. I would now like to  invite the representative of Israel to take the floor.
99.1 M. REVAH (Israël) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Avant de m’exprimer au sujet du rapport de la Commission IV, je me dois  d’appeler l’attention, au nom de l’État d’Israël et du peuple juif, sur un très grave événement qui s’est produit hier, alors  même que nous adoptions ici la résolution relative au point 5.1, sur l’élaboration d’une stratégie de lutte contre le  racisme, la discrimination, la xénophobie. Au moment où nous adoptions cette résolution, le premier ministre d’un pays  très important prononçait le discours le plus antisémite qui ait été peut-être jamais prononcé depuis la seconde guerre  mondiale. Ce premier ministre d’un pays membre de l’ONU affirmait qu’après que les Européens ont tué six millions  d’entre eux au cours de cette guerre, les juifs dirigent toujours le monde. Il s’est lancé dans un discours antisémite sans  pareil. Je tenais à le rappeler car il est impossible que cela soit passé sous silence, dans cette enceinte, au lendemain de  l’adoption de notre résolution. Je souhaite que nous trouvions le moyen de marquer notre désapprobation face à ces  déclarations.
99.2 J’en viens à présent à ce qui nous occupe. Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Madame la  Présidente du Conseil exécutif, au cours de cette 32e session de la Conférence générale, il a été rappelé à plusieurs  reprises et de différentes façons qu’un changement fondamental était en train de s’opérer, au sein de notre Organisation  concernant son fonctionnement, son efficacité. Sans sous-estimer le travail auquel ont donné lieu les différents points à  l’ordre du jour de la Conférence générale, permettez-moi d’affirmer que les efforts qui ont permis l’adoption des deux  résolutions, relatives aux points 5.3 et 5.4, respectivement, reflètent pleinement l’esprit de la nouvelle UNESCO. Ces  efforts méritent, comme vous l’avez souhaité, de faire école et, je l’espère, non seulement à l’UNESCO, mais partout  ailleurs. En suscitant l’ouverture d’un débat sur ces deux résolutions, Monsieur le Président, notre objectif n’était  nullement de briser le consensus. Bien au contraire, nous voulions parvenir à un véritable consensus ou du moins nous  en rapprocher le plus possible. Malgré le peu de temps dont nous disposions, et grâce à la bonne volonté dont ont fait  preuve les différentes parties, nous y sommes presque arrivés. Les projets de résolution que les Commissions II et  IV  ont décidé de recommander à la plénière après avoir confié à des groupes de travail le soin de les mettre au point, sont,  comme vous venez de le dire, largement dépolitisées, et beaucoup plus conformes aux domaines de compétence de  l’UNESCO. J’ajouterai qu’elles reflètent aussi un réel souci de se débarrasser de tout langage belliqueux et hostile, ce  dont il convient de se féliciter. Les prochaines occasions devront être mises à profit pour poursuivre la tâche et la  parachever, en éliminant les références politiques qui subsistent. Malgré ces querelles, nous nous sommes joints au  consensus, car - nous n’avons plus à le prouver à la Conférence générale -, notre bonne volonté est sincère. J’exprime  donc le vœu que l’on ne perde pas de temps, que cet acquis ne demeure pas épisodique et que, sans attendre la 33e  session de la Conférence générale, les prochaines sessions du Conseil exécutif s’inspirent elles aussi de ce que nous  venons d’amorcer et poursuivent le travail entamé. Je remercie tous les collègues qui ont participé, de jour et de nuit,  aux travaux des deux groupes informels, et plus particulièrement les Présidents des deux Commissions qui ont permis  ce travail, ainsi que le Secrétariat, sans oublier notre cher collègue, l’Ambassadeur d’Italie, chef d’orchestre de ce  consensus. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
100. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank the distinguished representative of Israel. I now give the floor to the representative of  Palestine.
(101) Mr ABDELRAZEQ (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. In the first place, I should like to thank Ambassador Yaï, Chairperson of  Commission IV, for the great efforts he has put into the Commission’s work and the striking results that have been  achieved under his guidance. I should also like to offer my particular thanks, once again, to the representatives of  Member States who have participated in the informal working group headed by Ambassador Francesco Caruso of Italy. I  should like to note at this point that we regarded the matter of consensus as something that would enable UNESCO to  preserve its characteristic spirit of solidarity in dealing with problems confronting it. I should like to state that the  Ambassador of Israel’s statements to the effect that he accepted the principle of consensus, and that these resolutions  were depoliticized, were eminently positive. I welcome his readiness to cooperate with UNESCO in implementing these  resolutions and giving effect to their content as soon as possible. I also agree with him that if we work quickly to  implement the content of these resolutions, we shall be able to preserve that spirit of consensus. Accordingly, I say to the  Director-General, “We have all placed the responsibility on your shoulders, and we know that you are worthy of that  responsibility”. Thank you.
102. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much indeed, distinguished representative of Palestine.  POINT 8.4 : AVANT-PROJET DE CONVENTION INTERNATIONALE POUR LA SAUVEGARDE DU  PATRIMOINE CULTUREL IMMATÉRIEL ET RAPPORT DU DIRECTEUR GÉNÉRAL SUR LA SITUATION  DEVANT FAIRE L’OBJET D’UNE ACTION NORMATIVE ET SUR L’ÉTENDUE POSSIBLE D’UNE TELLE  ACTION   ITEM 8.4: PRELIMINARY DRAFT INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE SAFEGUARDING OF THE  INTANGIBLE CULTURAL HERITAGE AND REPORT BY THE DIRELCTOR-GENERAL ON THE SITUATION  CALLING FOR STANDARD-SETTING AND ON THE POSSIBLE SCOPE OF SUCH STANDARD-SETTING  PUNTO 8.4: ANTEPROYECTO DE CONVENCIÓN INTERNACIONAL PARA LA SALVAGUARDIA DEL  PATRIMONIO CULTURAL INMATERIAL E INFORME DEL DIRECTOR GENERAL SOBRE LA SITUACIÓN  QUE DEBE SER OBJETO DE UNA ACTIVIDAD NORMATIVA, ASÍ COMO SOBRE EL POSIBLE ALCANCE  DE DICHA ACTIVIDAD  ПУНКТ 8.4: ПРЕДВАРИТЕЛЬНЫЙ ПРОЕКТ МЕЖДУНАРОДНОЙ КОНВЕНЦИИ ОБ ОХРАНЕ  НЕМАТЕРИАЛЬНОГО КУЛЬТУРНОГО НАСЛЕДИЯ И ДОКЛАД ГЕНЕРАЛЬНОГО ДИРЕКТОРА О  ПОЛОЖЕНИИ ДЕЛ В ОБЛАСТИ, ГДЕ ТРЕБУЕТСЯ ПРОВЕДЕНИЕ НОРМОТВОРЧЕСКОЙ  ДЕЯТЕЛЬНОСТИ, И О ВОЗМОЖНОЙ СФЕРЕ ЕЕ ОХВАТА  א:٨,٤א א א א ، א א א א א א א  א 项目 8.4：国际保护非物质文化遗产公约草案初稿和总干事关于制订准则的情况及其可能的范围的报告
103.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to item 8.4 and to the adoption of the draft international  convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. This requires a two-thirds majority of members  present and voting. As we proceed to vote, I would like to remind distinguished delegates of my earlier requests for  delegates to keep their name plates raised when voting until I give the sign that all votes have been counted. I shall start  by asking those who are in favour of the adoption of the convention to raise their name plates. I now invite those who  are against the adoption of the convention to raise their name plates. And now those abstaining, please so indicate.
103.2 The results of the vote are as follows: in favour: 120; against: none; abstentions: eight. I assume we have the  required two-thirds majority. Can this be confirmed by the Legal Adviser?
104. The LEGAL ADVISER:  Thank you very much, Mr President. I think you have given me the floor because you thought I was a little  under-employed here. I believe you have the two-thirds majority required for the vote on this instrument, Mr President.
105.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Mesdames, Messieurs, la majorité des deux tiers étant réunie, la Convention est adoptée. Merci beaucoup,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous venons donc d’adopter la Convention internationale pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine  culturel immatériel. Permettez-moi en cet instant historique de souligner que nous avons travaillé de longues années sur  cette question et que cette Convention, la cinquième de l’UNESCO en faveur du patrimoine culturel, comble un vide  juridique dans ce domaine. Chers collègues nous avons tout lieu de nous réjouir de l’adoption de cet instrument qui  répond à la nécessité d’assurer d’urgence la protection de ce patrimoine vulnérable.
105.2 Je donne maintenant la parole à l’Ambassadeur Bedjaoui, de l’Algérie, qui a présidé avec brio les travaux  préparatoires. Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, vous avez la parole.
106.1 M. BEDJAOUI (Algérie) (Président du Comité juridique) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, j’ai quelques raisons personnelles, bien sûr,  de me réjouir vivement de la décision que vient de prendre la Conférence générale. Mais au-delà de ma satisfaction  personnelle, je pense en toute sincérité que c’est là une excellente décision. Je crois en effet que la convention adoptée  présente le grand avantage d’être très souple. Elle répond au souci majeur de protéger d’urgence le patrimoine  immatériel, eu égard à sa vulnérabilité. Cette convention me paraît constituer très certainement un cadre d’action  susceptible d’être adapté aux situations diverses qui pourraient se présenter au cours des 15 ou 20 ans à venir, elle est en  cela un instrument indispensable. Elle se garde, il faut le souligner, d’empiéter sur les compétences d’autres institutions  internationales, telles que l’OMPI. Les experts gouvernementaux et moi-même y avons tout particulièrement veillé. Par  ailleurs, ce n’est pas un texte figé : c’est une convention, je le répète, d’où l’on a exclu toute rigidité. C’est pour cela du  reste qu’elle a bénéficié d’un large consensus, dont témoigne le nombre, nettement supérieur à la majorité des deux tiers,  des voix qui se sont prononcées pour son adoption.
106.2 Je remercie tous ceux qui ont aidé à cet heureux dénouement. Il faut en savoir gré à tous les États membres et  à leurs distingués experts gouvernementaux, qui ont su donner une chance historique à la sauvegarde du patrimoine  immatériel, à la fois témoin et expression du génie de chaque peuple et de chaque identité culturelle dans le monde.  Monsieur le Président, si cela m’était permis, je citerais tout spécialement certains États membres, sans vouloir  aucunement minimiser la contribution de tous les autres. Il me plairait en effet de rendre hommage à des États comme le  Japon, l’Italie ou la Corée, ou encore la Turquie, les Pays-Bas, l’Espagne ou le Brésil, qui ont si généreusement  contribué à faire en sorte que cette convention voie le jour. Je voudrais, avec votre permission, formuler des louanges  plus personnelles encore en citant aussi le Maroc et le Bénin, dont les représentants, Mme Aziza Bennani et M. Yaï, ont  respectivement présidé le Conseil exécutif et la Commission IV. Leurs talents et leur savoir-faire font partie de notre  patrimoine immatériel, mais fort heureusement, ce patrimoine-là n’est pas vulnérable. Nul besoin par conséquent de  sauvegarde, mais en revanche, ces collègues méritent toute notre admiration. Il faut aussi - et j’allais dire surtout -  rendre hommage à la persévérance, à la ténacité et au souffle puissant du Directeur général, que les difficultés n’ont à  aucun moment découragé. La convention que nous venons d’adopter, Mesdames et Messieurs, est une oeuvre collective,  largement inspirée par le pragmatisme et l’esprit de compromis. Laissons-la donc vivre ! Et pour reprendre le titre d’une  chanson précisément anglo-saxonne, chantons comme le firent autrefois les Beatles, "let it be, let it be". Merci.
107. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Ambassador Bedjaoui. I think that would be a good note on which to end this twenty-first plenary  meeting. The General Conference shall gather for the last – but by no means least – meeting of the 32nd session this  afternoon at 3 p.m. sharp. Have a good lunch. The meeting is now adjourned.   La séance est levée à 13 h 5   The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05   Заседание закрывается в 13.05  א א١,٠٥א    会议于 13 时 05 分结束