463  Dix-neuvième séance plénière
16 octobre 2003 à 10 h 25  Président : M. OMOLEWA (Nigéria)  Nineteenth plenary meeting
1. The PRESIDENT:  I invite all the delegates who did not have the privilege of being at the private meeting on item 11.17 that has  just taken place to please join us. We shall first of all examine the fourth report by the Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee, which will be followed by the examination of the report of the Administrative Commission. I therefore call  the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, Ambassador Ralambomahay, who will present to us the Committee’s  fourth and last report. Your Excellency, you have the floor, Sir.
2.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le représentant du  Directeur général, Madame la Présidente du Conseil exécutif, depuis la lecture de mon troisième rapport en séance  plénière le 7 octobre 2003, le Comité a reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations dont les noms  s’affichent à l’écran. Ces pays sont les suivants : Libéria et Micronésie (États fédérés de). Le Comité a également reçu  les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme des délégations de l’Argentine, du Botswana, des Comores, de la Grenade et du  Pérou, qui avaient auparavant présenté des pouvoirs provisoires. Conformément à l’autorisation qui m’a été donnée par  le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, je propose que la Conférence générale accepte ces pouvoirs.
2.2 Les délégations d’États membres dont les noms s’affichent à l’écran, n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs.  Ils sont au nombre de cinq : Antigua-et-Barbuda, Guinée-Bissau, Iles Cook, Nauru et Tuvalu. Les délégations d’Aruba  et des Iles Caïmans (Membres associés) n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Les délégations du Brunéi-Darussalam  et du Liechtenstein, observateurs, n’ont pas non plus présenté de pouvoirs à ce jour.
2.3 Monsieur le Président, puisque c’est la dernière fois que j’interviens en séance plénière, permettez-moi de  vous remercier très sincèrement de votre collaboration et de votre patience. Je remercie aussi Madame la Présidente et  les augustes membres du Conseil exécutif, ainsi que les membres du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, qui ont  proposé de me confier la présidence de ce Comité. Mes remerciements vont aussi à Monsieur le Directeur général et au  secrétariat de la Conférence générale, pour la compréhension et la coopération précieuses dont ils ont fait montre ; à  Monsieur le Conseiller juridique et à son équipe, dont l’aide m’a été précieuse dans l’accomplissement de ma tâche. Je  ne saurais oublier mon assistante, Madame Gisèle Ndédi, et ses collaborateurs, qui m’ont très efficacement secondé.  Qu’ils reçoivent ici le témoignage de ma reconnaissance. Je voudrais remercier aussi les interprètes et les techniciens,  que j’ai souvent mis à contribution lors de la lecture de mes rapports à la plénière. Je vous remercie de votre attention.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson, for your comprehensive report. I now suggest that we take note of  the report of the Credentials Committee. Are there any objections? I see none. It is so decided. Thank you very much.
3.2 I would like to thank the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee, our distinguished delegate from  Madagascar, who has worked very efficiently with commitment and openness throughout this General Conference.  Dear Ambassador, please allow me to congratulate you for the work that you have accomplished, which has facilitated  the work of the General Conference. Thank you very much indeed.  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE : RÉSOLUTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS   REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION: RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  INFORME DE LA COMISIÓN ADMINISTRATIVA: RESOLUCIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES  ДОКЛАД КОМИССИИ ПО АДМИНИСТРАТИВНЫМ ВОПРОСАМ: РЕЗОЛЮЦИИ И РЕКОМЕНДАЦИИ  א א א:א א א  א 行政委员会的报告：决议和建议
4. Le PRÉSIDENT :   Mesdames et Messieurs, nous allons maintenant examiner le rapport de la Commission administrative. Le  document qui vous est soumis est le document 32 C/70. J’invite le Président de la Commission administrative, S. E.  M. Kalamanov, à prendre la parole pour nous présenter le rapport de la Commission. Monsieur le Président, vous avez  la parole.
(5.1) Mr KALAMANOV (Russian Federation) (Chairperson of the Administrative Commission) (translation from  the Russian):   Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all the pleasure and satisfaction  of informing you of the successful achievement of the rather complex tasks before the Commission. In accordance with  the agenda approved by the General Conference on 29 September 2003, the Commission examined 19 items at
12 meetings. They concerned such issues as the Programme and Budget, the methods of work of the Organization,  financial questions, staff issues, constitutional and legal matters, and issues related to Headquarters maintenance and  security. At the outset I should like to remind you that the plenary has already adopted resolutions submitted by the  Administrative Commission on items 1.3 “Report by the Director-General on communications received from Member  States invoking the provisions of Article IV.C, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution” and 11.15 “Implementation of
31 C/Resolution 52 on the scale of assessments and currency of Member States’ contributions” (Part A only of that  resolution). In addition, a joint meeting of the Administrative Commission and the five programme commissions will be  held this afternoon at 3 p.m. on item 4.2 in order to prepare a recommendation on the Appropriation Resolution for the  General Conference. The Commission elected as Vice-Chairpersons the representatives of Kuwait, the Republic of Korea,  Saint Lucia and Spain, and as Rapporteur the representative of Nigeria. I should like to take this opportunity to thank  Mr Ramallo for carrying out the duties of Chairperson of the Commission in my absence. The Commission’s timetable of  work was adopted thereafter.
5.2 J’en viens au point 1.3 - Rapport du Directeur général sur les communications reçues des États membres  invoquant les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c), de l’Acte constitutif, qui figure dans le document 32 C/11  et Add., Add.2 et Add.3. Afin de faciliter le travail de la Commission, un groupe de travail sur le droit de vote a été créé  comprenant des représentants des délégations de l’Égypte, du Japon, du Kenya, du Koweït, du Mexique, du Pakistan, de  Sainte-Lucie, de la Slovaquie, de l’Espagne et de l’Ouganda. Les recommandations du groupe de travail ont été  approuvées par la Commission et transmises à la plénière qui a adopté sans amendement le projet de résolution proposé  au paragraphe 6 du document 32 C/70. Cependant la Conférence générale a décidé d’inclure un nouveau point à l’ordre  du jour, à savoir le point 11.19 « Demande tendant à ce que soit reconsidérée la suspension du droit de vote d’États  membres ». Au titre de ce point de l’ordre du jour, la Conférence générale a voté la suspension de l’article 83 de son  Règlement intérieur et a décidé d’accorder le droit de vote au Tchad, à la Gambie, à la Guinée, au Paraguay et au  Tadjikistan.
5.3 En ce qui concerne le point 4.1 - Méthodes de préparation du budget, prévisions budgétaires pour 2004-2005  et techniques budgétaires, la Commission a décidé que les techniques et méthodes budgétaires appliquées dans la  préparation des prévisions budgétaires pour 2004-2005 étaient conformes à la résolution 68  adoptée par la Conférence  générale à sa 31e session et à la décision 4.1 prise par le Conseil exécutif à sa 166e session. La Commission a donc  recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter la résolution contenue dans le paragraphe 7 du document 32 C/70.
5.4 Je passe au point 4.2 - Examen et adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2004-2005. Les  documents pertinents sont publiés sous les cotes suivantes : 32 C/5, 32 C/5 Corr., 32 C/5 Corr.2, 32 C/5 Add., 32 C/6,
32 C/8, 32 C/8 LEG, 32 C/INF.10, 32 C/INF.13. La Commission administrative a examiné les Titres I, III.C, III.D et IV  du budget. Pendant la discussion sur le Titre I.A, la Commission a accepté, à la demande du Secrétaire du Conseil  exécutif, d’aligner l’indemnité de représentation du Président du Conseil exécutif sur celle du Président de la  Conférence générale, ce qui n’entraînera aucune augmentation du budget global alloué au Conseil exécutif. Lors du  débat sur le Titre III.D du budget, certains délégués ont exprimé des inquiétudes quant au montant global consacré à
466  l’administration, la maintenance et la rénovation des bâtiments du Siège, compte tenu, en particulier, des besoins accrus  résultant de la proposition faite par le Directeur général en vue du renforcement de la sécurité des bâtiments de  l’UNESCO dans le monde (32 C/68). Par ailleurs, certaines délégations ont regretté que le plafond budgétaire  provisoire pour 2004-2005 n’ait pas été inclus à l’ordre du jour de la Commission administrative, ce qui les privait de la  possibilité d’examiner les trois scénarios contenus dans le projet du document 32 C/5. Quelques délégués ont été d’avis  qu’il serait utile d’inscrire ce point sur le plafond budgétaire provisoire à l’ordre du jour de la prochaine session de la  Conférence.  (Le Président de la Commission administrative poursuit en anglais)
5.5 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to item 11.1 “Report by the Director-General on the  implementation of the reform process” (32 C/32). Concerning Section I “A new vision for UNESCO”, satisfaction was  expressed with the progress made in the strategic planning efforts and results-based management, but some speakers felt  that more work was necessary for results-based management to become an inherent part of UNESCO’s organizational  culture. In the area of human resources, Member States expressed their overall satisfaction about the progress made in  recent years. However, several delegates stressed the need to strike a gender balance and ensure geographical  distribution alongside equity in the level of positions and equity for internal candidates vis-à-vis external candidates at  equal level of competence; the need to match the appropriate level of staff deployed to the field with the expertise  present in the host countries; the need for adequate training of staff transferred to the field, particularly administrative  officers; and the need for a more comprehensive staff policy. In this respect, some delegates queried the priority given  to internal candidates in recruitment, and stressed that the first criterion should be competence and qualifications. The  representative of the Director-General confirmed that, in accordance with Staff Regulations, competence and  qualifications were always the main considerations for recruitment. The Young Professionals Programme and the  improved less top-heavy staff structure were commended by the Commission.
5.6 Regarding new management style, the Commission was pleased that the new Finance and Accounting  Management Information System (FABS) had taken off at Headquarters, and urged the Director-General to ensure that  it was rolled out to the field offices as soon as possible. The representative of the Director-General informed the  Commission that roll-out to the field would be completed in 2004. Delays in the preparation and implementation of the  new human resources management information system caused concern. The representative of the Director-General  explained that the priority of the Secretariat was to review the administrative processes in accordance with the revised  personnel policies, before starting implementation. The representative of the Director-General confirmed that budgetary  provisions for FABS roll-out to field offices had been provided but that none had been made for the implementation of  the new HRM management information system. One delegate drew the Commission’s attention to the fact that the  much-outdated UNESCO Administrative Manual needed urgent revision if it was to reflect the new management  procedures.
5.7 Concerning decentralization, some speakers underlined that its implementation was an ongoing process.  Some progress had been achieved and the UNESCO field office network had become more coherent. The Commission  highlighted major challenges that are still to be dealt with and requested the Secretariat to accelerate the pace of  implementation of the new strategy. It was advised, at the same time, that the evaluation of the decentralization process  should be conducted with extensive consultation with the Member States. Concern was expressed over inadequate  staffing of field offices in terms of quantity, quality and level of staff. There was also need to revise the coverage of  certain cluster offices.
5.8 The Commission requested that the respective roles and responsibilities of Headquarters, regional bureaux,  cluster offices and national offices be clarified and that more effective communication between these various parts of  the Secretariat be established. Enhanced coordination and communication between field offices and National  Commissions was considered essential. The need for greater harmonization with other United Nations agencies, so as to  optimize the use of already scarce resources and avoid duplication of work, was also highlighted.
5.9 Delegates recommended the integration of evaluation as a routine ongoing process, not only for the field, but  also at Headquarters, which would enable the development of a culture of in-built evaluation. The Commission  recommended to the General Conference that it adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 9 of document 32 C/70.
5.10 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to item 11.2 “Financial report and audited financial  statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO for the financial period ended 31 December 2001, and report by the  External Auditor” (32 C/33 and Add.). The representative of the External Auditor reiterated that the audit opinion given  on the financial report of the 2000-2001 biennium was unqualified and without reservations. Summarizing, the External  Auditor highlighted the most salient issues raised: the need to improve financial and management reporting; the  management of the account for anticipated cost increases; the use of carry-forward funds; improvements on the
467  validation process on unliquidated obligations; the question of the revival of the Investment Committee in relation to the  optimization of interest yields; the strengthening of field office financial management, and the status of the  implementation of FABS. He concluded by informing the Commission that the creation of the Committee of Budget  and Finance, as recommended in the audit report, had improved the monitoring and financial management of the  Organization’s resources. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in  paragraph 10 of document 32 C/70.
5.11 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to item 11.3 “Financial report and interim financial  statements relating to the accounts of UNESCO as at 31 December 2002 for the financial period ending 31 December
2003” (32 C/34 and Add.). In introducing this item, the representative of the Director-General informed the  Administrative Commission that the interim financial accounts were unaudited and that these had been prepared for the  first time under FABS. He also noted that the document under review was a consolidated report which brought together  all of UNESCO’s financial accounts. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 11 of document 32 C/70.
5.12 Turning now to item 11.4 “Modernization of UNESCO’s approach to recording expenditures” (32 C/35),  under this item the Commission mainly discussed the question of the amounts carried forward from one biennium to the  next, as recommended by the External Auditor. Several delegates considered that sound management should not  produce end-of-biennium surpluses while programmes remained unimplemented; in line with current regulations,  should they occur, they should be returned to Member States. Other delegates agreed with the External Auditor, who  stressed that funds at the end of a biennium were the result of efforts to avoid exceeding the budget. It would be wiser to  continue the carry-forward mechanism, with the proviso that such funds are used, with the approval of the Executive  Board, for priority programmes in 2004-2005 rather than spending these resources hastily at the end of the biennium.
5.13 In order to arrive at a draft resolution which would encompass all the views expressed on the subject, the  Commission set up a Drafting Group comprising representatives of Algeria, Brazil, France, Lebanon, Nigeria, the  Russian Federation and Spain, the External Auditor and the representative of the Director-General, to examine the  matter and come up with an acceptable draft resolution. Delegates cautioned that although a certain flexibility was  needed to allow efficient use of carry-forward funds for high priority programmes, the mechanism should not become  institutionalized. With regard to the percentage of funds to be carried forward, the majority of delegates agreed that
2% of the appropriation in document 31 C/5 was reasonable, bearing in mind that the Executive Board would be  deciding on the use of such funds. It was also agreed that the Director-General should undertake a study on the merits  and demerits of a carry-forward mechanism, including comparisons with other United Nation agencies. Concluding, the  Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 12 of document
32 C/70.  (The Chairperson of the Administrative Commission continues in Russian)
(5.14) (Translation from the Russian) Item 11.5 “Scale of assessments and currency of Member States’  contributions” (32 C/36 and Add. and Add.2). Discussion of this item mainly concerned the implications of the scale of  assessments for the contributions of Member States, since the level of contribution of some Member States had changed  and for others it had increased. In the opinion of some delegates, it would be appropriate for UNESCO to use its own  method of assessment based on the actual situation and social factors in its Member States. The Commission decided to  submit to the plenary the draft resolution contained in document 32 C/36 with a few technical amendments. These  included proposals that: (a) 54% of contributions should be assessed in euros, and (b) 2 October 2003 should be the  reference date mentioned in paragraph 8(d) of the document. Accordingly, the Commission recommended that the  General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 13 of document 32 C/70.
(5.15) Item 11.6 “Collection of Member States’ contributions” (32 C/37 and Add. and Add.2). In their introduction  to this item the Chairperson and the representative of the Director-General provided the latest information on the
470  collection of Member States’ contributions. At the time of drafting this report, 23 Member States were defaulting on their  payment plans. The Commission noted significant improvements in the payment of contributions in 2002-2003 and  expressed the view that continuation of that trend could, in the long term, lead to reduced external borrowing. It therefore  thanked those countries which had paid their dues on time and urged countries in arrears to pay their contributions. At the  conclusion of the discussion, the Commission decided to submit to the plenary the resolution contained in paragraph 14  of document 32 C/70.
(5.16) Item 11.7 “Working Capital Fund: level and administration” (32 C/38 and Add.). The Commission  recommended without debate that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 15 of document
(5.17) Item 11.8 “Managing the UNESCO complex: report by the Director-General and report of the Headquarters  Committee” (32 C/40 Parts I and II and Add. and Add.2 and 32 C/INF.8). The representative of the Director-General  spoke in some detail about the three phases of the Belmont Plan. Phase I is nearing completion and the results are already  visible. Implementation of the next phase depends on the General Conference’s authorizing the Director-General to  contract a loan guaranteed by the French Government. Several delegates expressed their gratitude for the clear  presentation and their appreciation of the work carried out, and thanked France for its kind offer. The Commission  recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 16 of document 32 C/70.
(5.18) Item 11.9 “Staff Regulations and Staff Rules” (32 C/41 and Corr.). In order to give the Director-General more  flexibility in implementing the new human resources management policies, the Commission agreed that the requirement  for a competitive process in Staff Regulation 4.2 should be changed for transfers at equal grade and for renewals of  appointments. Concerning the advertisement of vacant posts, delegates discussed the need to include the time-frame in  the proposed amendment to Staff Regulation 4.3.2 and agreed that for external candidates vacant posts should be  advertised for a period of two months. The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 17 of document 32 C/70.
(5.19) Item 11.10 “Staff salaries, allowances and benefits” (32 C/42). The representative of the Director-General  confirmed that document 32 C/42 contained information on decisions taken by the Director-General in accordance with  decisions and recommendations of the International Civil Service Commission and the General Assembly. The  Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 18 of document
(5.20) Item 11.11 “Report by the Director-General on the situation concerning the geographical distribution of the  staff” (32 C/43 and Add.). The discussion focused mainly on three issues: (1) the status of language posts (whether they  should be geographical posts or not); (2) the factors used in the formula recommended by the working group to calculate  geographical quotas – membership, contributions and population factors; (3) the introduction for low-population  countries with less than 500,000 inhabitants of a minimum of one post. On the issue of recruitment, members of the  Commission noted the measures taken by the Secretariat to achieve equity in staff recruitment through recruitment  missions to regions and called for the more active involvement in the process of National Commissions, Permanent  Delegations, universities and field offices. It was proposed that UNESCO vacancy notices should be more widely  disseminated, including through local media, and that a roster should be established of qualified candidates from under-  and non-represented countries. With regard to changes in geographical distribution, some delegates asked for further  information on the range of the quotas to enable them to make a qualitative assessment of progress made in this area.  Representatives of small Member States and Associate Members from the Caribbean and Pacific regions expressed their  serious concern that, on account of the remoteness of these States, limited access to new information and communication  technologies, and non-effective representation of their interests at Headquarters, they cannot fully benefit from the results  of the measures launched by the Secretariat in the matter of staff recruitment. The need to ensure adequate funding for the  Young Professionals Programme, which has helped alleviate imbalances in staff distribution, was acknowledged. The  Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 19 of document
(5.21) Item 11.13 “United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and UNESCO Staff Pension Committee” (32 C/44). The  representative of the Director-General reported on the increase in the capital, a negative rate of the total annualized return  for the biennium and a surplus in the actuarial position of the Fund. The Commission recommended that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 20 of document 32 C/70.
(5.22) Item 11.14 “Report by the Director-General on the state of the Medical Benefits Fund and appointment of  Member States’ representatives to the Board of Management for 2004-2005” (32 C/45 and Add.). The representative of  the Director-General informed the Commission about the series of studies carried out by the Organization on the  activities and financial situation of the Medical Benefits Fund. Problems related to the processing of payments and  reimbursement of medical expenses owing to the outdated and saturated computer software system currently in use were  raised. Either it would have to be replaced with modern software or claims processing would have to be outsourced.  Given that UNESCO lacks the expertise to carry out such work, some members of the Commission supported the idea of  outsourcing claims processing, which might be more cost-effective and time-saving. The Commission recommended that  the General Conference adopt the draft resolution contained in paragraph 21 of document 32 C/70.
(5.23) Item 11.16 “Proposal by the Director-General concerning the use of the contribution of the United States of  America for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2003” (32 C/62). Delegates welcomed the return of the United  States of America and the Director-General’s proposal for the use of the funds made available. The representative of the  Director-General explained that the establishment of a Special Account made it possible to implement the plan of action  set out in the document without time constraints, and therefore urged the Commission to approve the suspension of the  relevant part of the Financial Regulations. The resolution contained in paragraph 23 of document 32 C/70 was  recommended to the General Conference for adoption without any amendments, although its last paragraph was placed in  square brackets since it was considered that it should be discussed by the General Conference in plenary.
(5.24) Item 11.18 “Strengthening the security of UNESCO premises worldwide” (32 C/68). The representative of  the Director-General briefly outlined the contents of document 32 C/68, which referred to security measures taken in field  offices and at Headquarters and proposed four possible sources of funding for the considerable effort needed to establish  and strengthen security: extrabudgetary sources, voluntary contributions, increased charges for services, and the use of  some of the carry-forward funds. Delegates expressed the view that carry-forward funds should be earmarked primarily  for the funding of priority programme activities. However, given the current exceptional circumstances, and I am  referring here to the tragic events particularly in Baghdad, and because of the absence of contingency funds in UNESCO  which makes dealing with emergencies difficult, the members of the Commission were prepared to agree to the allocation  of part of the carry-forward funds to security measures. Following the discussion, the Administrative Commission  recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 24 of document 32 C/70. Staff  representatives took the floor to make statements on agenda items 11.1, 11.8, 11.9, 11.10, 11.11 and 11.14.
(5.25) Mr President, allow me to conclude my presentation with some words of thanks to all those who have  contributed to the fruitful conclusion of the Administrative Commission’s work. Above all, I should like to thank the  delegates of Member States and also the representatives of the Director-General, in particular the Deputy Director- General, Mr Barbosa, the Assistant Director-General and Executive Director of the Office of the Director-General,  Ms Rivière, and all other colleagues to whom I am most grateful. I should also like to thank all those who have facilitated  the work of the Administrative Commission, beginning with the Secretary of the Commission, who was assisted by a  team of dedicated and willing colleagues, without whose effective assistance we could not have successfully  accomplished our work. Allow me fully to express my sincere gratitude to all those who have assisted us from behind the  scenes, the interpreters and translators, technicians, room clerks and anybody else I may have omitted. Thank you,  Mr President.
6.1 Le PRÉSIDENT :   Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur l’Ambassadeur, et je vous félicite pour le travail accompli par la  Commission administrative.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
6.2 As you know, item 11.16 “Proposals by the Director-General concerning the use of the contribution of the  United States of America for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2003” was entrusted to the Administrative  Commission in order to have the Commission’s opinion concerning the suspension of the appropriate article of the  Financial Regulations with regard to this item. As you have all heard during Mr Kalamanov’s presentation, the  Administrative Commission has made a recommendation in this connection. However, as this item is submitted to the  plenary for the decision as a whole, it has been proposed that the recommendation of the Administrative Commission on  this item should be adopted separately from the rest of the report. Furthermore, as you know, one of the  recommendations contained in the report of Commission IV, which is being adopted this morning, also refers to this  item. This is why it is proposed that item 11.16 should be examined on Friday afternoon, after the examination of the  report of Commission IV that also considers this item.
6.3 Ladies and gentlemen, you will also note in regard to item 1.3 concerning voting rights that Mr Kalamanov  recalled that the plenary has taken a decision on the subject, and that it was re-examined under item 11.19. Therefore no  decision is required today on this matter.
6.4 I would now like to invite you to turn your attention to the report of the Administrative Commission which is  contained in document 32 C/70, and call for your comments and observations on the document. I am opening a list of  speakers wishing to take the floor on the subject. So far there are six speakers on the list. Thank you very much. I now  give the floor to Denmark.
7. Mr BRÜCKNER (Denmark):  I would like to speak on behalf of the Nordic countries after the adoption of the report of the Administrative  Commission. Thank you.
(9) Mr KARADAWI (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President, clearly I shall not be as brief as the distinguished delegate of Denmark. I will start  by commending the Chairperson of the Commission and the team working with him on this excellent, outstanding report  which covers complex, sensitive and thorny issues. Mr President, I would like to discuss a quite subsidiary subject that  concerns the delegation of my country, Sudan. I believe that it comes implicitly under item 11.1, to be precise in Part III  on the implementation of decentralization. My country’s delegation raised a topic in the Administrative Commission and  in Commission I that we considered to be worthy of their attention, concerning Sudan’s right to participate in and share  the concerns and problems involved in UNESCO’s programmes and its activities for Africa, and in particular the area  south of the Sahara. As everybody knows, Mr President, Sudan is a country covering a vast area of diverse ethnic groups  and various cultures, blending within it more than 500 tribal groups speaking over 100 languages and dialects. It belongs  to Africa geographically, organically and culturally, as it belongs in the same respects to the Arab nation. Sudan is  classified in both the Africa and Arab States groups, according to the Manual of the General Conference (Section G  “Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional activities”, 2002 edition). On the basis  of the above, Mr President, and for electoral purposes, Sudan is fully entitled to participate in both of the groups in  question, in particular in UNESCO programmes concerning sub-Saharan Africa. In all humility we would like to request  the Director-General to give this matter the attention it deserves. I would point out that the delegation of Sudan is not  asking for any changes concerning the subject in the draft resolution of the distinguished Commission, and it commends  the much-appreciated efforts of the Chairperson of the Commission and his team. Sudan, which is making sure progress  towards a comprehensive and just peace, would like UNESCO to take this matter in hand. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
10. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Sudan. It would seem to me that your presentation is more appropriate for  Commission I, whose report will be discussed tomorrow. However, I expect delegates will remember your extensive  statement or, if necessary, you may repeat it then. The next speaker is Luxembourg. You have the floor, sir.
11. M. DANN (Luxembourg) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. J’interviens au sujet du paragraphe 6 du projet de résolution relatif au point
11.16. Si j’ai bien compris, ce paragraphe 6 sera examiné vendredi après-midi ?
12. The PRESIDENT:  I shall ask the Secretary to respond to that.
13. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Effectivement, Monsieur le Président, comme vous l’avez annoncé à l’ouverture de ce débat tout à l’heure, la  recommandation de la Commission administrative relative au point 11.16, de même qu’une recommandation qui figure  dans le rapport de la Commission IV, en cours d’adoption en ce moment, seront examinés vendredi après-midi en même  temps que les propositions du Directeur général contenues dans le document 32 C/62. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
14. The PRESIDENT:  I now invite Chile to take the floor.
(15) Mr ROGERS (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, like the delegation of Denmark, my delegation would like to speak  after the Commission’s report has been adopted. Thank you.
16. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Chile. I now invite France to take the floor.
17. Mme DE BRUCHARD (France) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. J’interviens dans le même sens que le Chili. Nous souhaitons prendre la parole  après l’adoption du Rapport, après que le délégué du Danemark, et sans doute d’autres délégations, se seront exprimés.  Merci.
18. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, France. I now invite Venezuela to take the floor.
(19) Mr DELGADO (Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):  Like the rest of our colleagues who have spoken, my delegation congratulates the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission on the work accomplished and on the content of the report. Nevertheless, with regard to page
23 of the document, which concerns the collection of contributions from Venezuela, I should like to point out an error in  the amount of the arrears. According to paragraph 2, the contributions due from Venezuela amount to $10,889 when in  reality, to be precise, our debt amounts to $2,780,854. While this would be in our favour because the difference is very  large, we prefer precision and would like the correct amount due to appear in the document. I believe that the error is due  to a repetition of the amount of contributions due from Uruguay, appearing on the previous page, of $10,889 and,  furthermore, it is stated that the payment will be made in five instalments whereas it is subsequently made clear in the  document that the payment will be in three instalments. I should like to ask the Secretariat to take note of these comments  and make the necessary corrections. Thank you very much.
20. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Venezuela. I now ask the Secretary to respond to the issues raised.
21. Le SECRÉTAIRE :    Oui, Monsieur le Président. Je crois que l’erreur que signale le représentant du Venezuela ne concerne que la  version espagnole. Le chiffre que le représentant du Venezuela vient de citer correspond à ce qui figure dans les  versions française et anglaise. Il va de soi que toutes les erreurs de ce type seront rectifiées avant la publication des  documents définitifs.
22. The PRESIDENT:  Venezuela, you may rest assured that your concerns will be taken into account. I now call Afghanistan. You  have the floor, sir.
23. Mr AZIZ (Afghanistan):  Mr President, thank you very much once again. I think it is my duty now to thank both the Director-General  and the Secretariat for their assistance prior to the submission of our proposal concerning the collection of the  contribution of Afghanistan. I should also like to thank the Member States and the Administrative Commission for  having approved our proposals and the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission for the very excellent report he  has just presented. I propose that we adopt this report with the exception of the item to be considered on Friday. Thank  you very much.
24. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. That is what I was going to propose after all the speakers have taken the floor, but  thank you very much for your very helpful proposal. I now invite the distinguished representative of the United  Kingdom to take the floor.
25. Ms HARRIS (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation would like to add its name to the list of those wishing to make a  comment after the adoption of the report. Thank you, Mr President.
26.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, may I, in the absence of further requests for the floor, take it that the General  Conference wishes to take note of the report of the Administrative Commission and approve the resolutions contained  therein, with the exception of the item that will be discussed on Friday. Are there any objections? I see none. It is so  decided.
26.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank once again the Chairperson and all the members of the  Administrative Commission for their hard work, commitment and dedication throughout the period of the General  Conference. We greatly appreciate your efforts. I shall now return to those countries that expressed the wish to make a  statement after the adoption of the report. I shall being with Denmark, the first to make such a request. Denmark, you  have the floor.
27.1 Mr BRÜCKNER (Denmark):  Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the five Nordic countries, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and  Denmark, I would like to comment on item 1.3 of the agenda of the Administrative Commission concerning  communications received from Member States invoking Article IV C, paragraph 8(c) of the Constitution.
27.2 The Nordic countries regret that the debate on this issue was re-opened last Wednesday in plenary. The  plenary overruled the decision taken in the Administrative Commission and in the plenary itself a couple of days before,  to allow voting rights to a number of States which were in arrears for reasons beyond their control but not to allow  voting rights to four Member States. The Administrative Commission set up a working group that tried to review, as  positively as possible, the requests received from Member States to obtain voting rights in spite of arrears. Particular  attention was given to the respect of existing payment plans and to the commitment made to reduce the total amount of  the arrears. To that effect the working group also involved the Member States concerned in the decision-making process  and in some cases invited them to provide additional information.
27.3 The Working Group studied in detail 23 requests, and the Administrative Commission decided that the  request of 19 Member States should be accepted and that only four Member States did not comply with the conditions  laid down in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and consequently should not take part in the  voting at this session of the General Conference.
27.4 The plenary accepted the recommendations made by the Administrative Commission, which is itself a  plenary commission of the General Conference. But the plenary later reopened the debate and introduced a proposal  that had not, at any stage, been put to the Administrative Commission for consideration, namely, that Rule 83 be  suspended entirely. This meant that all Member States, including all Member States in arrears and even Member States  in arrears that did not even send an explanatory communication to the Organization, gained voting rights.
27.5 In UNESCO the only way of sanctioning countries that do not pay their contributions is not to accord voting  rights to such Member States. This is an important sanction, it is the only sanction that we Member States impose upon  those of our membership which are in arrears and which have not convinced us that this is beyond their own control. It
475  is the most lenient sanction within the United Nations system. All Member States, whether or not they are in arrears  continue to have the right to take part in debate, and they may present themselves as candidates for election to  UNESCO’s subsidiary bodies. All Member States, whether in arrears or not, may continue to benefit from UNESCO’s  programmes and activities.
27.6 In UNESCO we normally stress the importance of universality. But universality also means sharing the  responsibility of the Organization and sharing responsibility means, among other things, that all Member States have a  duty to pay their contributions fully, and on time. The decision of the plenary shows, however, that in UNESCO the  non-payment of contributions has no consequence at all. Moreover it calls into question the working methods of the  General Conference: why set up a time-consuming working group to conduct a detailed case-by-case study of each  request if all countries, in any case, are to obtain voting rights? It is not only a waste of time and money, but it also  shows a lack of respect for countries that make an effort to pay their contributions fully, and for the many Member  States, including many developing countries which, despite their economic difficulties, respect their obligation to pay  on time.
27.7 The Nordic countries support the continued application of Rule 83, which can give the countries with  payments in arrears a second chance to obtain voting rights on certain conditions. We would like to stress, however, that  if Rule 83 is to have any effect, we must support the work of the Administrative Commission and respect its  recommendations. We also believe that, in the future, Rule 83 should be applied with more consistency and in  conformity with the main intention of the Rule, namely, that all countries shall submit their payments in due time and  that exceptions shall be granted only in very special and extraordinary situations, due to conditions beyond the control  of the Member State.
27.8 Of course, decisions taken in the Commission will sometimes be opened up in plenary by Member States.  That is our right. In this case, however, the decision taken in plenary to suspend Rule 83 was in response to an entirely  new proposal, which had not been tabled in the Administrative Commission. The Administrative Commission was  therefore bypassed on a very important item of Administrative Commission business. This calls into question the role of  this Commission and the seriousness with which we treat deliberations. Thank you for your attention.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Denmark. I now call on Chile.
(29.1) Mr ROGERS (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin I should like to thank the Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, Mr Vladimir Kalamanov, for the presentation of  his report. I also wish to congratulate him on the work accomplished in the Commission.
(29.2) Mr President, my delegation asked for the floor because we wish to associate ourselves with and endorse the  statement just made by the distinguished Ambassador of Denmark, on behalf of the Nordic countries. When the plenary
476  examined item 1.3 of the agenda on the Wednesday of last week, Mr President, my delegation was unfortunately unable  to participate because it had other meetings at the same time, and we were not present in the room. Without going into the  substance of the issue, I should like to make some brief comments regarding the procedure.
(29.3) Indeed, Mr President, at the beginning of this General Conference session it was decided which agenda items  would be examined by each commission. In this particular case, item 1.3 of the agenda was assigned to the  Administrative Commission. This body, in turn, decided to set up a working group and it worked very hard, even meeting  on a Saturday afternoon. In this working group, all the States concerned had the opportunity to be heard. The group  drafted a report which was subsequently approved by the Administrative Commission, where all the Member States are  represented, and subsequently it was also adopted by the plenary. We therefore, like the distinguished Ambassador of  Denmark, regret that the item was reopened in plenary and particularly that, as I said, this took place after the plenary had  adopted the Administrative Commission’s own report. My country’s delegation believes, Mr President, that in future we  should avoid this type of situation and make proper use of the bodies that the Conference itself has established.
30. The PRESIDENT:  I would like to thank the distinguished delegate of Chile. I now invite the delegate of France to take the floor.
31.1 Ms DE BRUCHARD (France):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we are hearing a very important point. But please allow me first  to commend very warmly the statement made and the work accomplished by our colleague from the Russian  Federation.  (Ms de Bruchard continues in Russian)
(31.2) (Translation from the Russian) He has presented a very clear, good-quality report which shows just how  much work we got done with him, and I thank him for it. It is, I believe, highly important. I would also like to express my  gratitude to him for what I heard today, in this room – his statement in excellent French. It demonstrates how important  linguistic and cultural diversity are for us now, and he has helped us to achieve it, for which I am most grateful.  (Mme de Bruchard poursuit en français)
31.3 Monsieur le Président, je voudrais en venir au point qui nous occupe. Je veux parler de la question qui a été  soulevée et fort bien exposée par notre collègue du Danemark. Si vous le permettez, je souhaiterais toutefois que l’on  entende l’Italie, qui exerce la présidence de l’Union européenne. Je suis certaine, Monsieur le Président, que la France  ne pourra que s’associer à ce qui sera dit par l’Ambassadeur d’Italie au nom de l’Union européenne. Merci.
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, France. I am delighted by the linguistic diversity we have in this room. I now give the  floor to Canada.
33. M. HAMEL (Canada) :   Pour ne pas perdre trop de temps, je me contenterai de m’associer aux propos du Danemark et du Chili. Je  souhaiterais moi aussi davantage de rigueur, ainsi que le respect des recommandations des groupes de travail de la  Commission administrative. Je vous remercie.
34. The PRESIDENT:  Shukran, distinguished delegate of Canada. I now invite the representative of Italy to take the floor.
35. M. CARUSO (Italie) :   Spassiba. Je remercie l’Ambassadeur de la Fédération de Russie pour le remarquable travail accompli par la  Commission administrative. Monsieur le Président, je prends la parole au nom de l’Union européenne pour dire que  celle-ci soutient la déclaration que le Danemark vient de faire au nom des pays nordiques au sujet des contributions. Les  membres de l’Union européenne estiment qu’il faudrait faire preuve de rigueur et de bonne gouvernance en la matière.  Nous comptons sur le Directeur général et nous souhaitons qu’il fasse des propositions au Conseil exécutif, à l’une de  ses prochaines sessions. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
36. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I would now like to invite the distinguished representative of the Netherlands to take the floor.
37. Mr VOORNEVELD (Netherlands):  The Italian Ambassador spoke on behalf of the European Union as a whole.
38. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. Japan, you have the floor.
39. Mr SATO (Japan):  Shukran, Mr President. First of all I would like to express my congratulations to, and respect for,  Ambassador Kalamanov for the successful and excellent work he has done. The question of voting rights is a sensitive  issue which requires us to strike a delicate balance between solidarity and fairness, between flexibility and  steadfastness, between compassion and discipline. We are in strong sympathy with the great difficulties faced by the  countries in arrears. At the same time we attach great importance to the need for viable and stable rules of procedure in  matters of finances. Japan would like to see and would be happy to participate in a constructive discussion in the  Executive Board so that a firmer and surer basis can be established to deal with this issue. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
40. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Ambassador. I now give the floor to Uruguay.
(41) Mr CASTELLS (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I should like, in common with those who have spoken  before me, to thank the Chairperson of the Administrative commission although, since my Russian is very basic, I have  no wish to manhandle that beautiful language and the thanks will be in Spanish. Mr President, my delegation can do no  less than associate itself with the statements by Denmark, Chile, the European Union and others. My delegation was  present at the plenary referred to, and you will all recall that we cautioned against exempting a State from the established  procedure. And, since the plenary decided all the same to exempt the State, our delegation then proposed that all States  should be exempted; otherwise it would be potentially unjust. Nevertheless, it would have been preferable to respect the  established procedures, refrain from reopening the debate, endorse the recommendation of the working group, which, as  the representative of Chile said, worked very hard, and endorse the proposal of the Administrative Commission. That is  all, Mr President; I just wanted to clarify Uruguay’s position.
42. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now invite the representative of Barbados to take the floor.
43. Ms CUMMINS (Barbados):  Muchas gracias, señor. That is the extent of my linguistic diversity. Mr President, Barbados wished to take  the floor to associate itself with the comments made by the Nordic group, Chile, Japan and others with respect to the  very serious and sensitive nature of this subject, and note that on a very difficult day last week we were forced to take a  very principled stand on this matter, and in some way found ourselves in a situation where one body within the  Organization was in some way divergent or opposing another body. This is not a desirable situation. We certainly agree  with the statement made by Japan about the need to investigate further how we may ensure that we take a disciplined  and yet sensitive approach to the matter. We would certainly not wish in any way to put the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference in jeopardy by any further inaction or disregard on our part. Thank you, Mr President.
44. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of Barbados and would now like to ask the representative of Argentina to take the  floor.
(45) Ms DE GOYCOECHEA (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. I should like to associate myself with the previous speakers. Excuse me, I forgot: I  should like in particular to thank Ambassador Kalamanov for the manner in which he presided over the Administrative  Commission and for the excellent report he presented to us. I also wholeheartedly support the Nordic group’s statement  and those of Chile, Italy and Uruguay. I believe that, in the name of “solidarity”, some shortcomings have occurred  regarding observance of and respect for the rules. I hope that in future the General Conference and all States will  endeavour to avoid this problem, which, in the long term, also means striving to respect the law and non-discrimination.  Thank you.
46. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. The representative of Georgia now has the floor.
(47) Ms LAGUIDZE (Georgia) (translation from the Russian):   Thank you, Mr President. I join with those speakers who have expressed their appreciation of the work of the  Administrative Commission. I would also like to say that it is only thanks to Mr Kalamanov’s wise leadership of the  Administrative Commission that we managed to adopt absolutely clear, correct and well-founded decisions on many  administrative and financial problems. For my country, and for the group of countries of the former Soviet Union, the  issue of the payment of contributions of Member States, is, as you know, a most worrying subject. We have tried to  explain these countries’ situation in working groups and are grateful to the Administrative Commission for the  understanding with which it and its working group, and the relevant division of UNESCO, have dealt with resolving the  problem. I would also like to join those colleagues who called on us to respect the Rules we have adopted, and here I am  thinking of Rule 83. Of course, each Member State must respect the decision taken on this issue. We will do our utmost  to convince our governments to take all the necessary measures in the forthcoming biennium to pay off this still  unfortunately substantial arrears of contributions. However, I would nevertheless like to urge the Organization to show  yet more understanding and flexibility in relation to the many countries still unable to pay their membership contributions  in accordance with the demands made by the Organization. I would like to stress that, of course, we fully respect the  provisions of the rules which oblige us to do all we can. I would like once more to thank Mr Kalamanov for the excellent  and considerable work he accomplished as Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. Thank you.
48. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Georgia. I would now like to ask India to take the floor.
49.1 Ms SABHARWAL (India):  Thank you very much, Mr President. We would also first of all like wholeheartedly to congratulate  Ambassador Kalamanov for the excellent manner in which he steered the work of this extremely important  Commission, the Administrative Commission. On the discussion and the views that we have heard on the suspension of  Rule 83, allow me at the outset to clarify India’s position, namely that India too wholeheartedly endorses rigour and  discipline as the basis for the sound management of any organization and would not support any derogations or  exceptions for trivial or non-serious considerations. What we have before us, however, is the very serious and very  sensitive issue of a waiver of the denial of voting rights to countries which are faced with extremely grave and serious  circumstances, despite the consideration given to the matter by the Administrative Commission – and particularly its  Working Group, which worked very hard – and the Commission’s recommendation, after such consideration, that four  out of the Member States concerned would still not pass muster. We feel that this is a very serious matter and, as the  Ambassador of Japan has pointed out, this matter ought really to be given further in-depth consideration and a sound  basis should be developed for the whole issue to be addressed, in order to avoid in future any elements of subjectivity,  or uncertainty in the application of this waiver – a waiver providing that in situations of very exceptional and  extraordinary circumstances countries’ voting rights can be restored.
49.2 Above all, Mr President, there is one matter about which India would have a very serious concern: I am sorry  that India cannot go along with the observation that, if the work and recommendations of the Commissions are to be  overruled and the plenary is to take a different view, then that may be viewed as a contradiction in the work of two  organs of the General Conference. We feel that the plenary ultimately has the final view and it may be that some inputs  are not available to the Commission. This is all part of the process of deliberation, where a commission looks into a  matter and then the plenary, with the benefit of all inputs – the larger political considerations – is also entitled to  exercise its rightful role. Thank you very much.
50. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now call the representative of Madagascar.
51.1 M. RALAMBOMAHAY (Madagascar) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais aussi m’associer aux orateurs précédents pour féliciter  l’Ambassadeur Kalamanov pour l’excellent travail qui a été fait et qu’il nous a présenté. Pour ce qui concerne le débat  qui nous occupe, je ferai d’abord remarquer qu’aucun des pays en développement qui éprouvent des difficultés à  s’acquitter de leur contribution ne prend la parole pour la simple et bonne raison qu’il s’agit là d’un débat très difficile  et délicat. Certes, nous devons faire preuve de bonne gouvernance, c’est-à-dire appliquer le règlement, mais nous  devons aussi faire preuve de solidarité vis-à-vis de ces pays qui tiennent à leur participation à la vie de notre  Organisation, et en témoignent par leur présence à cette session de la Conférence générale, mais qui n’ont pas les  moyens de régler leur contribution.
51.2 Je crois pour ma part, suivant en cela la proposition faite par M. l’Ambassadeur du Japon, que le Conseil  exécutif devrait effectivement se pencher sur ce problème, du point de vue de l’application stricte du Règlement  intérieur - et peut-être de la hiérarchie des décisions, vu les contradictions qui peuvent apparaître entre les travaux d’une  commission et les décisions de la plénière -, mais surtout sur la nature même de la participation aux travaux de la  Conférence générale des États qui n’ont pas pu s’acquitter de leur contribution. Ils nous ont expliqué, aussi bien en  commission qu’en plénière, les raisons pour lesquelles ils n’ont pu le faire et nous devons en tenir compte. Le respect de  la discipline est certes indispensable au bon fonctionnement d’une organisation, mais il faut aussi, je crois, se pencher  sur le problème extrêmement grave qui se pose. Quant aux dérogations accordées, il me semble que leur nombre n’a pas  été si élevé que cela. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
52. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madagascar. I now invite Indonesia to take the floor.
53. Mr RACHMAN (Indonesia):  Thank you very much. Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rahīm (in the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate).  I would like to congratulate Ambassador Kalamanov for his excellent work and associate myself with the statements  made by my colleagues and friends from India and Japan. This kind of case is very common in an organization that is so  diverse. We must always bear in mind the goals of UNESCO and that, to achieve those goals, we need good  regulations. However, regulations always have two poles – strictness and flexibility. I call upon us all to be very strict in  matters of principle, namely, the goals to be achieved. But we must also consider the capacity of certain countries. We  need to examine that case by case with flexibility. Hopefully the Executive Board should be able to deal with this kind  of problem. I hope we will maintain our harmony and achieve our goals. So we must pay attention to these four pillars:  goals, regulations, harmony and achievement. In the speech by President Chirac yesterday we all heard about the  wisdom of preserving UNESCO and also the importance of ensuring harmony within the organization. So I fully
480  endorse and support the report of the Administrative Commission. In the case of sensitive issues, we should ask the  Executive Board to solve the problem. Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmat Allāh wa-barakātuh  (Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be upon you).
54. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Indonesia. I would like to invite Switzerland now to take the floor.
55. M. FELDMEYER (Suisse) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je voudrais appuyer le point de vue qui a été exprimé par la délégation du  Danemark avec le soutien des pays nordiques et d’autres États. J’estime en effet qu’il fait preuve de plus de rigueur  dans l’application du Règlement intérieur - lequel n’exclut du reste pas une certaine souplesse quand il y a lieu de faire  des exceptions en matière de droit de vote. Mais la rigueur s’impose : c’est aussi une question d’équité à l’égard de tous  les États membres, et l’Organisation a tout à y gagner. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
56. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Switzerland. Australia, you have the floor.
57. Ms STERN (Australia):  Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, my delegation would like to warmly congratulate Mr Kalamanov on the  excellent job he did in steering the very important work of the Administrative Commission. We would also like to  support the comments and the very constructive suggestion made just a few moments ago by the delegate of Japan.  Thank you.
58. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Australia. I now give the floor to Viet Nam.
59. M. LÊ (Viet Nam) :   Xiexie ni ! Je voudrais m’associer aux déclarations du groupe de l’Union européenne, qui s’est exprimé par  les voix du Danemark et de l’Italie, ainsi que de la France. Je pense moi aussi qu’il nous faut faire preuve de rigueur  dans l’application du Règlement. Mais la question des contributions et du droit de vote est extrêmement délicate et  sensible. Permettez-moi de citer l’exemple de mon propre pays. Le Viet Nam est un pays très pauvre, qui a été dévasté  par la guerre. Il fut un temps où nous redoutions les sessions de la Conférence générale, car il nous fallait alors nous  acquitter de notre contribution. Or, il nous était difficile de verser ne fût-ce qu’une somme symbolique. Nous avons fait  beaucoup d’efforts pour nous mettre en règle dans les délais prescrits et, jusqu’à présent, la Conférence générale n’a  jamais eu à examiner le cas du Viet Nam. Il est arrivé que la délégation envoyée par notre pays à la Conférence générale  soit contrainte de produire l’ordre de paiement pour obtenir le droit de vote. C’est pourquoi, je peux comprendre que  certains pays soient dans cette même situation. Je souhaiterais donc que la Conférence générale prenne en considération  les cas particuliers. On dit qu’il n’y a pas de règle sans exception - ce qui ne signifie pas qu’il faille pour autant  généraliser les exceptions. Merci.
60. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Afghanistan.
61.1 Mr AZIZ (Afghanistan):  Mr President, I am sorry to take the floor once again. My country is not concerned by this matter, therefore  what I wish to say has nothing to do with our problems. Mr President, I would like to remind the General Conference  that, faced with a problematic issue, the President of the General Conference took a decision, which in my view was  right and correct. And what is this? In the General Committee a Member State asked, in my presence, whether or not it  could propose a subject for discussion by the General Conference. The President of the General Committee, yourself,  with the subsequent agreement of the General Committee, gave the right to that country to put forward a proposal,  thereby opening up discussion on that question.
61.2 The matter was brought the next day to the General Conference, and that country again proposed – in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure – to reopen discussion on the matter of the four Member States that for  whatever reason could not pay their contributions to the Organization. The General Conference accordingly decided to  open the discussion and therefore agreed on the matter. But I should also like to remind our colleagues and friends that  among these four countries there was a country belonging to the former Soviet Union – Tajikistan – which in relation to  a resolution had been approved by the General Conference. That country was subject to that resolution but, not  presently being established here in Paris, was unable to present a payment plan in just two days’ time. That issue was  therefore also raised and put to the General Conference which accordingly, first and foremost, considered Rule 83 of the  Rules of Procedure and gave Tajikistan the right to vote. That then became the issue.
61.3 While saying this, Mr President, I full-heartedly support what the distinguished Ambassador of India has just  said, and I strongly support what the distinguished Ambassador of Japan has proposed: that these sensitive issues –  whether they concern one country or two – be thoroughly studied, examined by the Executive Board and a proposal  made to the appropriate authority – in other words, the General Conference and the relevant commissions.
61.4 I never thought that the General Conference itself overruled the decision of the Administrative Commission.  Even if that is the case, I know that the General Conference has the right to suspend any rules in cases which it  considers to be very sensitive. I can also say and predict that this will not be the first time that certain rules are  suspended.
61.5 I have the greatest respect for the work of the working group, particularly for its Chairperson, and for the  Administrative Commission. At the same time, however, I am sensitive to the Member States that, because of an error  of a day or two, or because of enormous difficulties, were not really able to implement the proposals they made to the  General Conference. The whole issue is a sensitive one. And I think what the General Conference – in fact, you,  yourselves – decided is absolutely in conformity with the spirit of this very great Organization. Thank you so much.
62. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished representative of Afghanistan. I now give the floor to the representative of Mexico.
(63) Ms GÓMEZ OLIVER (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my delegation would like to acknowledge the constant skill and  intelligence with which Ambassador Kalamanov guided the work of the Administrative Commission of the General  Conference. Mr President, my delegation would like to endorse the views of those delegations which have already taken  the floor on the need for strict observance and application of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  particularly Rule 83. Mr President, the delegation of Mexico believes that this same rigour must be present in the  application of all – absolutely all – the rules governing the activity of our Organization. That is all I wanted to say,  Mr President. Thank you.
64. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Mexico. I now give the floor to Cuba.
(65.1) Mr LÓPEZ DEL AMO (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to join those who have taken the floor before me in  congratulating Ambassador Kalamanov for his efficient guidance of the work of the Commission over which he presides.  I should also like to endorse what was said by the distinguished representative of Japan about always striking a delicate  balance between respect for established rules and considerations arising from cases in which extraordinary circumstances  may have made it impossible for a State to meet its obligations. However, I should like above all to refer to another item  in the report we have just adopted, item 11.18.
(65.2) We understand the concerns regarding the protection of premises and security problems, particularly since the  unfortunate and terrible incident at United Nations Headquarters in Baghdad in which an outstanding Brazilian diplomat  lost his life. We nevertheless believe that, with regard to security, some general principles must also be observed because  we are talking about all UNESCO offices in the world. We consider that the host countries should always have a specific  obligation to ensure the necessary security for such offices in their territory. UNESCO has only limited resources for its  major programmes and we are aware of the enormous difficulties that the Director-General and his closest colleagues  have in allocating those limited funds in the most effective possible manner. And looking at that figure of $20 million, we  are constantly mindful of the major programmes of UNESCO in need of financial support.
(65.3) I should therefore like to ask the Director-General, when he presents to us in the Executive Board the  proposals for strengthening the security of UNESCO offices, to try to ensure that obtaining the necessary funds does not,  for example, as aired in the initial document, entail any increase in the rental paid for offices by the Member States of  UNESCO, the vast majority of which are developing countries striving to keep their offices open here; that there also be  no increase in the fees for use of UNESCO Headquarters premises, such as theatres and exhibition halls, which are high  as it is when set against the scant resources of the developing countries and which sometimes make it difficult for those  countries to lay on their cultural events here. I have confidence in the wisdom of our Director-General and Assistant  Director-General, and I am sure that they will be able to provide us with a programme to be discussed in the Executive  Board that takes these factors into account and, at the same time, includes the necessary measures to safeguard UNESCO  premises, keeping in mind at all times that UNESCO best ensures its security by ever acting within the principles of its  Constitution, which gives it all the necessary moral force, which is always the best defence and the best security. Thank  you very much.
66. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the list of speakers. Is there any other country that wishes  to take the floor? Sudan. Any other countries? No. I give the floor to the representative of Sudan.  א ٦٧ א(א  )א א  ، א א א א א ، א א٨٣א ، א א א ، א א "אא ؟: :א"א א"،" א א א ، א א א א ،.א א אא א א א א א א א א א א א ، א א.א ، א.א א א א א אא א א א א(א )א א א א א א א א.א ،  .א
(67) Mr KARADAWI (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):   Mr President, I should like to apologize for this belated request to speak for the second time, however, I have  a substantive question concerning Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and the debate that has  taken place, namely: “Is this Rule objective and just?” The answer is most certainly: “Yes, it is objective and just”, and
483  we have to apply it, regardless of its effect on some States, in order that the system for the payment of contributions is not  adversely affected at future sessions. We must adopt a clear-cut position, and not merely talk about flexibility and rigour,  or about exceptions, since such exceptions have a serious effect on future payment and on obligations in this regard. If  the rule is not just and not objective, we can amend it so that it is just and objective. Irrespective of the decision  concerning some States taken in the Administrative Commission and subsequently amended in the plenary (as the  plenary is entitled to do), I believe that we must either respect our principles, our rules and our regulations or we must  amend them to ensure that they are just, objective and rigorous. Thank you, Mr President.
68.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, 30 delegates have made statements on this very important subject. I think the issue has  been fairly clear. There is some considerable pain felt by those who make every effort to pay, only to discover that it  would still be possible to take part in the General Conference without necessarily having to go through the process of  paying their contributions. So those who have made such an effort believe that they have been punished by the decision  to allow others to take part in the process. A second issue raised is that, if you allow this type of process to continue,  you may end up with an Organization that does not have adequate funding to carry out the various programmes and  activities approved by the General Conference. On the other side is the other argument that some countries find  themselves in a situation in which they are helpless, through no fault of their own, but owing to disasters, difficulties,  challenges and so on. And yet they want to be part of this process; they want to be part of the universal UNESCO. They  do not want to be excluded; they want to be included.
68.2 So the General Conference found itself in a situation in which it had to take a decision, in which it had to see  whether it was possible to apply the rule and yet be flexible. In the ensuing vote there were two votes against, 64 in  favour, and 26 abstentions. I thought about the meaning of an abstention. It means no vote, in other words you are  neither for nor against. So I just looked at the figures of two against 64, and I came to the conclusion that the General  Conference was actually saying yes, because that is what it said. And yet this decision has raised a fundamental problem,  namely, how do we respond when a commission goes one way and the General Conference wants to go another way?  How do you respect that commission and at the same time uphold the sovereignty of the General Conference? These  were issues that I believe were in the minds of the various people who were faced with decisions. Now I feel, personally,  very, very sad indeed. I feel very sad because here is a situation in which there is much pain, as I could see from some  of the expressions today, pain in those for and pain in those against, and I am the person in the middle who is expected  to be and who should be speaking the voice of all of us. I think that the Ambassador of Japan has been very helpful in  his recommendation, namely to involve the tier of administration and organization to which he referred, which can  perhaps be regarded as the mind and head of that body which is the General Conference. I would like to ask you to  please allow us to take on board all these issues, together with the views and sentiments expressed and the specific  recommendations made by the various speakers today. All this will be included in the records and will, I am sure, help  UNESCO to move forward to ensure that the Organization is both sustainable and sensitive. I believe that the kind of  recommendation that will emerge from the Executive Board after copious study will help us face this and any similar  challenge that might arise in the future. I was very mindful at every stage of the implications of our decisions. I was  very mindful of those wide implications, but I am happy that the very fact that the decision has been taken and has  generated this response shows that our Organization will be in a stronger position for the future.
68.3 I would now, ladies and gentlemen, like to put the matter behind us and turn to item 11.8 because, even  though you have adopted the report, we still have to vote on that particular item so that the Director-General may  contract a loan. It should not just be a consensus. So, I invite you to consider item 11.8, and I shall now ask the  Secretary to explain the procedure. Mr Secretary, please, you have the floor.
69. Le SECRÉTAIRE :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Comme vous venez de le dire, aux termes du Règlement intérieur de la  Conférence, et plus précisément de l’article 85, paragraphe 2 (j), toute décision impliquant l’autorisation de contracter  un emprunt dont le remboursement exigerait l’inscription de crédits dans les budgets de plusieurs exercices financiers  requiert une majorité des deux tiers. Tel est bien ce qu’implique la proposition de décision que vous vous apprêtez à  mettre aux voix maintenant pour que tout soit bien clair. Vous pouvez donc passer au vote, Monsieur le Président.
70.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. We shall now proceed to vote on the draft resolution on item 11.8. Those who are in  favour, please raise your name plates. Now those who are against, please raise your name plates. Are there any  abstentions?
70.2 The results of the vote are as follows: 84 in favour, none against, with three abstentions. The draft resolution  is therefore adopted.
70.3 It remains for me to thank you all very much, as we have come to the end of this morning’s plenary meeting.  We shall take up item 11.16 tomorrow, and meet again this afternoon at 3 p.m. sharp. The meeting stands adjourned.   La séance est levée à 12 h 15   The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.   Se levanta la sesión a las 12.15   Заседание закрывается в 12.15  א א١٢,١٥א    会议于 12 时 15 分结束