(1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Your Excellencies, once again I welcome you to our  meeting this afternoon. Before we start listening to the statements of delegations, I will give the floor first of all to the  Secretariat because the General Committee of the General Conference met this morning and examined two items in  connection with the inclusion of items on the agenda, but it could not present its report due to time constraints. I therefore  give the floor to the Secretariat to present the report of the General Committee of this morning.
2. Le Secrétaire adjoint :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Lors de sa troisième réunion ce matin, le Bureau a décidé de recommander à la  Conférence générale d’inscrire deux nouveaux points à son ordre du jour. Le premier point, proposé par la Guinée- Bissau, s’intitule « Renforcement de la coopération avec la République de Guinée-Bissau ». Si la Conférence générale  décide d’inscrire ce point à l’ordre du jour, il deviendra le point 5.35 et sera attribué pour examen à la Commission I. Le  deuxième point que le Bureau recommande à la Conférence générale d’inscrire à l’ordre du jour est proposé par le  Sénégal et la République du Congo et s’intitule « La drépanocytose, une priorité de santé publique » ; il deviendrait le  point 5.36. Il est proposé que ce point soit attribué pour examen à la Commission II dont la Présidente a donné son  accord pour qu’il soit examiné à la séance que la Commission consacrera à l’adoption de son rapport le samedi
15 octobre au matin. Merci Monsieur le Président.   :א ٣ ،.א א א א א א א א.א ، א  .א.א
(3) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much to the Secretariat. If the Conference agrees with the recommendations of the General  Committee concerning the inclusion of these two items on the agenda, I will bring the gavel down. I see no objection, it is  so decided. Thank you very much.  Report by the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission  Rapport du Président de la Commission administrative  Informe del Presidente de la Comisión Administrativa  Доклад председателя Комиссии по административным вопросам  א א א   行政委员会主席的报告：   :א ٤ א ، א א א א، ، א א א א א.א א א  .،.א
(4) The President (translation from the Arabic):  I now give the floor to the honourable Dominique Levasseur, from Canada, Vice-Chairperson of the  Administrative Commission, as its Chairperson, Dr Mohammed Bedjaoui could not be with us this afternoon. I give her  the floor then to present the report of the Administrative Commission. The floor is yours, Madam.
5.1 Mme Levasseur (Canada) (Vice-Présidente de la Commission administrative) :  Distingués délégués, Monsieur le Président, ce rapport porte sur le point 1.3 « Rapport du Directeur général  sur les communications reçues des États membres invoquant les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c) de  l’Acte constitutif ». Conformément à l’article 83 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, la Commission  administrative examine dès le début de ses travaux les communications des États membres invoquant les dispositions de
379  l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c), de l’Acte constitutif. Dans ce contexte, il a été rappelé que la date limite pour accepter  ces communications était le 6 octobre 2005, à 18 heures. Tous les États membres qui auraient soumis des  communications à cette date pourraient continuer à voter tant que la Conférence générale n’en aurait pas décidé  autrement en séance plénière, sur la base du rapport de la Commission administrative. La Commission a ainsi mis en  place un groupe de travail pour procéder à une étude détaillée, au cas par cas, et pour lui proposer des  recommandations. Le Groupe de travail, placé sous la présidence du Ghana et composé de l’Algérie, de l’Australie, de  la Barbade, du Bénin, du Ghana, du Japon, de la Norvège, de la Fédération de Russie, du Venezuela et de la Zambie,  s’est réuni cinq fois entre le 6 et le 10 octobre 2005.
5.2 Monsieur le Président, le 6 octobre au soir, le Groupe de travail avait reçu 18 communications d’États  membres invoquant les dispositions de l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8 (c). L’un d’entre eux, le Soudan, s’est acquitté du  montant requis pour obtenir le droit de vote après le dépôt de sa communication, laquelle a donc été retirée, réduisant le  nombre des demandes à étudier à 17. Le Groupe de travail a procédé à un examen détaillé de chacune de ces demandes  dans le cadre des dispositions de l’Acte constitutif, de l’article 83 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale et  de la résolution 30 C/82. Une attention particulière a été prêtée au respect des plans de paiement existants et aux efforts  faits par les États membres pour réduire le montant total de leurs arriérés. Le Groupe de travail a invité à cette fin les  États membres concernés à participer au processus de décision en apportant, en cas de besoin, des éléments  d’information complémentaires.
5.3 Le Groupe de travail, après un examen attentif de chaque cas, est arrivé à la conclusion que 14 d’entre eux  pouvaient faire l’objet d’une recommandation favorable concernant l’attribution exceptionnelle du droit de vote, alors  que les informations fournies concernant les trois autres cas ne permettaient pas cette attribution. Le Groupe de travail a  considéré que, sur les 14 cas faisant l’objet d’une recommandation favorable, trois communications émanant d’États  membres en proie à de sévères difficultés économiques et financières étaient en conformité avec les dispositions de  l’article 83 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Une quatrième communication était présentée dans le  cadre de la résolution 32 C/66 concernant un certain nombre d’États de l’ex-Union soviétique. Les demandes des dix  autres États membres pour lesquels le Groupe de travail a fait une recommandation favorable émanent d’États membres  connaissant des conditions exceptionnellement difficiles en raison soit de guerres ou conflits armés récents ou en cours,  soit de situations économiques et financières particulièrement difficiles ou de catastrophes naturelles. Pour ces raisons,  et bien que leurs demandes ne répondent pas aux conditions stipulées par l’article 83 du Règlement intérieur de la  Conférence générale, le Groupe de travail, après avoir longuement examiné leurs requêtes, a décidé de faire à leur sujet  une recommandation favorable. Le Groupe de travail a demandé à la Commission administrative de rappeler aux États  membres l’importance de respecter les engagements qu’ils ont pris pour le règlement de leurs arriérés lorsqu’ils  demandent à bénéficier du droit de vote. En particulier, il a souligné l’importance du versement ponctuel des annuités  dues au titre des plans de paiement approuvés par la Conférence générale, ainsi que du paiement de la contribution du  biennium en cours. Le Groupe a également demandé au Secrétariat de continuer à attirer l’attention des États membres  sur les possibilités de règlement des contributions en monnaie locale par les États qui le souhaitent.
5.4 Monsieur le Président, au terme de ma présentation, je vais énoncer la liste des 14 États membres qui, d’après  la Commission administrative, devraient donc obtenir le droit de vote. Trois pays sont en conformité avec l’article 83 du  Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale, leur cas ne requiert donc qu’un vote à la majorité simple. Il s’agit du  Costa Rica, du Pérou et de la République démocratique du Congo. Le cas des onze pays suivants requiert un vote à la  majorité des deux tiers : Grenade, Guinée-Bissau, Iraq, Libéria, Nauru, Niger, République centrafricaine, République de  Moldova, Sierra Leone, Somalie, Uruguay. J’en viens finalement aux trois États membres pour lesquels la Commission  administrative a donné un avis défavorable au rétablissement de leur droit de vote. En effet, le groupe de travail a  considéré que les communications soumises par ces États membres n’étaient pas en conformité avec les conditions de  l’article 83 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale et, en conséquence, qu’ils ne peuvent pas prendre part aux  votes de la 33e session. Ces États sont Djibouti, la Guinée et le Turkménistan. Distingués délégués, Monsieur le  Président, le Groupe de travail a passé un temps considérable à procéder à une étude détaillée et au cas par cas de  chaque demande. En raison de la nature hautement sensible de cette question, le Président du Groupe de travail m’a  chargée de faire appel à vous pour que la résolution concernant ce point de l’ordre du jour soit adoptée par la plénière  sans débat. Je vous remercie de votre attention.   :א ٦ א ، א א ، א א א א א ، א ،.א ، א ، א אא א.א א א א א א ، א א א ، א א א א א א א א א ، א א ، אא א א א א א א א ، ؟ א א אא، א א א.א.א ، א א א א ، א، א.א
(6) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you for that extensive and thorough report, I am sure that you carried out a great deal of work to reach  that conclusion, and conclusions sometimes satisfy everybody and sometimes do not. I now leave the matter up to you,  ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Member States. If you agree with the proposals of the Administrative  Commission and the working group as presented by the Vice-Chairperson of the Commission, we shall not need to vote  three times. So, I submit to you the proposals of the Commission. If you agree with them, we shall consider that the  Conference has endorsed all the recommendations which were presented by the Vice-Chairperson of the Administrative  Commission. I leave the matter to you. Are there any comments or objections? It appears that you are all being helpful,  so I take it that the report of the Administrative Commission is approved by the General Conference without any  objections. Thank you very much. Thank you once again, Madam, for this extensive report, you and all the Commission  members, please accept our thanks and appreciation. This afternoon I have another saying for you, and once more it is  about women. The saying goes “Woman, like the tender grass, bends before the breeze but does not break in the storm”.  Thank you.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  א )(א   总政策辩论（续）   :א ٧,١ א א א א ، א א  .א
(7.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  The honourable Viliami Takau, Director of Education of the Ministry of Education of Tonga, now has the  floor.  (The President continues in English)
7.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor, please
8.1 Mr Takau (Tonga):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, honourable Ministers,  distinguished delegates, I bring to you very warm greetings from His Majesty King Taufa’ahau Tupou IV and the  people of the Kingdom of Tonga. Mr President, may I join with the others in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as  President of UNESCO’s General Conference at its 33rd session. May your term in office be a fulfilling and rewarding  one. I have no doubt that UNESCO’s programmes and commitments in the new biennium will be greatly enhanced by  your wisdom, experience and excellent leadership.
8.2 Mr President, I would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Professor Michael Abiola Omolewa,  for his excellent leadership during the last biennium, and to the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura,  for his steadfast commitment to the Organization’s visions, aims and goals, and for his excellent leadership,  administration and management of the various functions and activities of the Organization. I also congratulate  Mr Matsuura on his nomination for a second term as the Director-General of UNESCO.
8.3 Mr President, I am mindful that at this very moment, as I am talking, there are rescue workers, volunteers,  relatives, fathers, mothers, sons and daughters and children who have been anxiously looking through the rubble and  mud for loved ones and survivors following the devastating earthquake that hit parts of Pakistan and India in the past  few days. I, on behalf of my country, humbly wish to convey our respect, heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the  victims of this natural disaster and their families – and indeed to all victims of recent natural atrocities and terrorism in  all countries all over the world. On the threshold of UNESCO’s 60th anniversary, despite the abundance of positive  developments that have taken place in so many fields of human endeavour, the world is still faced with the devastating  effects of natural disasters such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes, while also suffering from the curse of  manmade atrocities in the forms of war, terrorism, global warming and the like. UNESCO’s mandated spheres of  competence, and the functions and activities they encompass, have therefore become an integral element of survival and  the development of mankind, thus making UNESCO a vital global institution that will forever be closely bound up with  human existence on our planet.
8.4 Mr President, Tonga supports the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 (33 C/5), and thanks the  Director-General for including the Youth Forum in the programme of the 33rd session of the General Conference.
381  Tonga would like to urge that the report and recommendations of the Youth Forum be positively considered for action  during the biennium.
8.5 Mr President, you will recall that at its 32nd session, the General Conference adopted 32 C/Resolution 48,  which calls for the Organization to support the 1994 Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development  of small island developing States (SIDS). Tonga, together with the Small Island Member States in the Pacific, are  grateful to the Director-General and UNESCO for the active participation and commitment on their behalf in the United  Nations Meeting of small island developing States that took place in Mauritius from 10 to 14 January 2005.  Furthermore, Tonga is also supportive of UNESCO’s responses to United Nations General Assembly resolution 59/311  adopted on 14 July 2005 on the follow-up to the international meeting in Mauritius, and welcomes UNESCO’s two- pronged approach in this area: that of mainstreaming the needs of the small island developing States in all the  Organization’s activities while reinforcing a holistic, integrated approach to sustainable island living and development  through intersectoral action with an intergenerational perspective, at interregional level. The attention given to often  marginalized dimensions such as culture, indigenous knowledge, youth and outer islands is also very welcome.
8.6 Mr President, Tonga welcomes the draft international convention against doping in sport, supports its  adoption at this conference and is grateful for UNESCO’s commitment to supporting the administration of the  convention from the regular budget.
8.7 Mr President, Tonga fully supports the programme and actions relating to the Literacy Initiative for  Empowerment (LIFE) and the promotion of the United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012), and is preparing to  actively participate in the programme and initiatives relating to the promotion of the United Nations Decade of  Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). Finally, Mr President, Tonga acknowledges the contribution  made by the UNESCO cluster office for the Pacific Member States in Apia, Samoa, through the promotion and  implementation of UNESCO’s programmes and activities in the region. Tonga welcomes the appointment of Dr Visesio  Pongi from Tonga, as the Director of the UNESCO Apia Office, and we wish him and his staff all the best, and every  success during the coming biennium. I thank you for your patience and attention, ladies and gentlemen.   :א ٩ א א א ، א א.א א א א א، א א א א א א א ،  .א
(9) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much for your excellent address, and I must express my gratitude and appreciation for your  support and kind congratulations. I now call upon the honourable Joseph Murekeraho, Minister of State in charge of  Primary and Secondary Education of Rwanda, to take the floor.
10.1 Mr Murekeraho (Rwanda):  Mr President of the General Conference, distinguished Members of the Executive Board, honourable  Director-General and his team, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government of Rwanda and its delegation, I  would like to express my congratulations to the new President and the new General Committee for the confidence  placed in you by the 33rd session of the General Conference. I would also like to thank the outgoing committee and the  Secretariat for the dedication and competence with which they have served the Organization during the last two years. I  am convinced that the shoes of the outgoing General Committee will fit the newly elected committee, to which we  pledge our full support. Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, His Excellency the President of the  Republic of Rwanda, Mr Paul Kagame, conveys his greetings to you all and expresses his gratitude for the support  Rwanda has been receiving from UNESCO as an institution and from UNESCO Member States and his confidence that  the cordial relationship will continue to flourish.
10.2 Mr President, allow me to state that, with globalization, education is no longer a national issue, but one that  transcends linguistic and ideological boundaries, and that UNESCO’s role as the champion of this noble ideology  deserves a Nobel prize. In the case of Rwanda, from the period of emergency after the devastation of 1994 up until  today, the country has benefited significantly from UNESCO. To cite but a few examples, UNESCO has sponsored 43  projects at a total cost of approximately $111,000, including some through the cluster office in Nairobi to support  quality assurance in basic education and HIV/AIDS in schools.
10.3 As regards the major programmes in document 33 C/5, Rwanda is satisfied with the Director-General’s  proposals regarding the decentralization of both staff and programme resources, the proposed allocation of resources to  the principal priorities, the priority given to teacher training initiatives in sub-Saharan Africa, and UNESCO’s initiative  in proposing an international convention against doping in sport and a declaration on universal norms on bioethics.
10.4 Mr President, I would like to state that Rwanda has made substantial progress since 1994 as regards universal  primary education and access to the secondary and tertiary levels. The number of pupils in primary education was  around 800,000; now it is close to 1,900,000. The net enrolment rate was then less than 60% and is now close to 94%.  The teacher qualification rate was 46.6%; now it is close to 94%. The repetition rate has dropped from 32.1% to 19%,
382  while the transition rate has increased from 21% to approximately 50%. In secondary schools the number of students  has increased massively from 50,000 to 334,978. Similarly in tertiary institutions the number has risen from almost
4,000 to over 25,000. We owe all this, Mr President, to the political will, relative peace and stability, and good  governance in our country.
10.5 Rwanda has committed itself to providing nine years of basic education, including catch-up programmes for  children who have dropped out of the school system. At the heart of this commitment is the desire to ensure that all  children, irrespective of socio-economic background, have access to a minimum level of education that will provide  them with the basic skills and knowledge that are essential tools in the fight against ignorance and poverty. Allow me,  Mr President, to mention that, as a result of the determination of the government to combat illiteracy, the literacy rate  has increased from 48% to 55%. Indeed, UNESCO’s EFA Global Monitoring Report gives 66.8% and we hope to reach
85% by 2010. Mr President, our government is confident that access to education will no longer be a dream by the year
2020. We know that access is bound up with quality teaching and learning. The Kigali Institute of Education (KIE) and  other affiliated colleges to be established, plus the existing primary teacher training colleges, will focus on the issue of  quality teaching while the government addresses teacher development needs.
10.6 Mr President, our country is land-locked and without natural resources. That is why we believe that our most  important assets are our human resources. Our national project, called Vision 2020, is seeking to develop an economy  that will be knowledge-based and technology-led. For this reason Rwanda is laying heavy emphasis on the quality  teaching of the basic sciences and mathematics in primary and secondary schools and on the applied sciences in tertiary  institutions, with particular attention paid to the teaching of information and communication technology at all levels of  education. With support from many of our partners, such initiatives as the National School Net Programme, the  Development Gateway Foundation, the World Link, our institutions of higher learning such as the Kigali Institute of  Science, Technology and Management (KIST) and the National University of Rwanda, the creation of a web portal for  Rwanda, a Geographical Information System (GIS), spatial databases and remote sensing will cause Rwanda to leap  towards economic development.
10.7 Mr President, Rwanda is one of the leading countries in recognizing the role of women in decision-making.  For example, 39 of the 80 members of Parliament are women. To enable women to climb such a ladder, all gender  disparities in the education system must be removed. For example, through the initiative of our First Lady, a National  Council to promote education for girls has been established, through which the best girl performers per district, per  province, and nationally are rewarded. Concerning HIV/AIDS, awareness programmes have been designed and are  sometimes integrated into the school curricula as part of life skills, and HIV/AIDS clubs have been formed in schools.
10.8 Mr President, in the area of culture, we appreciated UNESCO’s assistance in capacity-building to protect, to  preserve and to manage the tangible and intangible heritage. However, we need UNESCO expertise to help preserve the  memory of the victims of genocide as an enduring symbol of the condemnation of barbaric acts directed against a  million innocent Rwandans, which the world could have stopped.
10.9 Mr President, despite our achievements there still exist challenges, most of which are associated with lack of  skilled manpower in all sectors, especially the education sector because it is the provider for all the other sectors. For  Rwanda, 1994 was, as it were, the year zero for the surviving Rwandan people. Dealing with the aftermath of genocide,  especially in the school system, is a global challenge. Providing a physical and technological infrastructure for the  school system and quality teaching, especially in science and technology, are some of our preoccupations.
10.10 As one scholar put it, Mr President, “Nothing is as easy as it looks”, “Everything takes longer than you think  it will”, “If anything can go wrong, then it will”, “Unanticipated events subvert capacity to implement as planned”. That  is why, Mr President, Rwanda’s wish is to progress from a national per capita income of $240 to at least $510, that is  the sub-Saharan African average, and to reduce the proportion of the population below the poverty line, now  approximately 60%. We believe that, with your moral and practical support for investment in our education system,  your global dream and our national one will become a reality provided that the political and socio-economic conditions,  such as peace and stability in Rwanda and beyond, are favourable and the obstacles overcome. I thank you all. May God  bless you.    :א ١١,١ א א א ، א א ، א ، .א א.א א א ، א א ، א א  .א
(11.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for that interesting statement. I would like to assure you that  human resources are the most important resource because they do not run out. I should also like to express my  appreciation for your support and trust. I now give the floor to the honourable Norman Caldera Cardenal, Minister for  Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua.  (The speaker continues in French)
11.2 Vous avez la parole, Excellence.
12.1 Sr. Caldera Cardenal (Nicaragua):   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames,  Messieurs les Chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs :  (L’orateur poursuit en espagnol)
(12.2) (Translation from the Spanish) On behalf of Nicaragua, I wish to express our sorrow for the victims of the  earthquake in Pakistan and the floods in Central America, particularly in Guatemala and El Salvador. Also on behalf of  the Government and people of Nicaragua, Mr President, I should like to convey the greetings of the President of the  Republic, Mr Enrique Bolaños Geyer, and his best wishes for the success of this 33rd session of the General Conference  of UNESCO. I likewise wish to record our satisfaction at the acceptance by the Director-General of the invitation  extended to him this year by President Bolaños to visit our country. We are looking forward with great pleasure to his  visit at the beginning of next year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the difficult political situation which our  country is going through, Nicaragua wishes to confirm its strong commitment to peace, democracy and the welfare of its  citizens, so that every day more and more Nicaraguan citizens may live in dignity – objectives that are fully in keeping  with the purposes of the United Nations and with the work performed by UNESCO. We are grateful for UNESCO’s  constant support for its Member States, especially the small states like us which have difficulties in achieving the  Millennium Development Goals that were recently endorsed by the General Assembly of the United Nations.
(12.3) Our report for 2003 on the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals considers one of the objectives  for education to be attainable by 2015, namely, “Promote gender equality and empower women”. Difficulties still remain  in achieving universal primary education, but we are confident that, with the appropriate strategies and the support of  friendly countries and organizations, we can achieve it. Between 1997 and 2004, we achieved a 25% increase in the  proportion of pupils completing the fifth level of primary schooling, which rose from 39% to 62%. We have set in train a  number of measures aimed at increasing the coverage of adult and literacy education, the numbers catered for having  increased from about 66,000 in 2003 to over 91,000 in 2005. In addition, a literacy programme has been initiated, as part  of a social volunteer scheme involving pupils in the fourth and fifth years of secondary school, whereby it is hoped to  benefit over 50,000 additional adults annually.
(12.4) A year ago, the Government of Nicaragua through the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport prepared a  Joint Work Plan for the period 2005-2008, which was the result of a joint initiative involving key players in the  educational community. The purpose of this planning tool is to prioritize, firm up and facilitate the implementation of  basic and secondary education policies. It will serve as a benchmark for undertaking educational policy measures, thereby  establishing a clearer link between the budget and the indicator results. Significant progress towards the goals specified in  the Joint Work Plan is already apparent in the form of an increase in the coverage of pre-school, secondary and adult  education, although the same progress has not been achieved at the primary level, which constitutes our major challenge.  Satisfactory achievements have also been observed in the task of reducing school dropout and failure rates at the primary  and secondary levels, poverty and migration being key reasons why students drop out of the formal education system.
(12.5) In spite of these difficulties, Nicaragua remains committed to increasing the coverage of primary education to
100% by 2015. To attain that goal, it is necessary to make changes to the strategy and policies in the education sector. It  is also necessary to have at our disposal the human and financial resources required for various activities designed to  improve the quality of education. In other words, if there are no inputs, there can be no products. At the high-level  plenary meeting held in New York in September last, Nicaragua therefore joined other Member States of the United  Nations in recognizing the pressing need to increase official development aid in order to attain internationally agreed  goals by 2015. In that connection, they acknowledged the time-limits set by some developed countries which have  pledged to allocate 0.7% of gross domestic product to official development aid no later than 2015 and to allocate at least
0.5% by 2009.
(12.6) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should like the take the opportunity to express our thanks to  UNESCO for the support that it has given to cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue by holding forums and debates  on traditional dances of Nicaragua and other cultural events on the national intangible heritage. In the field of culture, the  Government of Nicaragua has nominated two sites to be declared part of the world heritage of humanity. One of them,  the historical centre of the city of Granada and its natural surroundings, is a mixed cultural and natural site. This site,  which has great cultural and natural value, enjoys legal protection and forms part of the landscape and history of the
385  oldest city in the Americas. The second site is the five-naved Cathedral of León, a jewel of colonial architecture, whose  nomination is supported by the Member States of the Central American Integration System (SICA), which I have the  honour to chair pro tempore. As many of you know, the Cathedral of León holds the remains of our famous poet Rubén  Dario. We trust that with UNESCO’s support we will succeed in having these two cultural properties placed on the  World Heritage List.
(12.7) The Government of Nicaragua has made tremendous efforts to adopt measures that would steer the country’s  economy towards financial sustainability and ensure transparent and rigorous management. The international community  has supported us in these efforts. The results have not been long in materializing. It is important to stress that in 2005  Nicaragua is in a better position in the Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme,  having risen from 118th to 112th place on the Human Development Index, which measures a country’s progress on the  basis of various indicators including education, health, income and demographic variables such as life expectancy,  maternal and infant mortality, and so on.
(12.8) We urge that studies, decisions and resources related to the decentralization of UNESCO should be more  effective in keeping with the guidelines issued by the United Nations Secretary-General, consequent upon the changes  proposed by the Member States. UNESCO, our UNESCO, must pursue its course resolutely, having mapped out clearly  its direction and goals. We want a strong UNESCO that has multiplier effects, makes itself felt in its Member States and  helps us to establish a genuine educational pact at all levels. We want a UNESCO that mobilizes as much intellectual  cooperation to the maximum and acts locally through its international programmes, complementing national poverty  reduction drives and fostering the dissemination of values and knowledge. We want a UNESCO that will help us to  safeguard, promote and protect our tangible and intangible cultural heritage and our cultural diversity: This is the task  that UNESCO must endeavour to carry out and that Nicaragua must encourage and support over the coming years. We  sincerely hope that this will be so. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, everyone.   :א ١٣,١ אא ، א א א.٢٠٢٠، א ، א א א  .א
(13.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much to His Excellency, the President of your country and your Government for their trust  and support, and congratulations to you on the universalization of education by 2020. I now give the floor to the  honourable Marciano Silva Barbeiro, Minister of Education of Guinea-Bissau.  (Le Président poursuit en français)
13.2 Excellence, vous avez la parole.
14.1 M. Barbeiro (Guinée-Bissau) (discours prononcé en portugais ; texte français établi d’après l’interprétation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, sans aucun doute un  des temps forts de notre présence à cette 33e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO est-il le moment où nous  est donné le privilège de prendre la parole devant cette auguste assemblée afin de participer à cette grande réflexion  globale sur les problèmes majeurs qui touchent notre planète, et de nous associer à l’effort collectif déployé pour  trouver des moyens durables de faire advenir un monde où règnent la paix et l’harmonie entre les hommes, un monde  qui valorise notre environnement culturel et naturel, un monde qui respecte les droits de l’homme et défende les libertés  individuelles universellement reconnues.
14.2 La Guinée-Bissau, malgré tous les soubresauts de son histoire récente qui l’ont détournée de son évolution  naturelle vers l’élargissement des espaces de liberté dans toutes les sphères de la vie et de la société, – notamment dans  les institutions de la République – ne s’est pas dissociée des grandes préoccupations mondiales, celles qui retiennent à  juste titre l’attention de l’ensemble de la communauté internationale. Je pense en particulier à la lutte contre le  terrorisme, à la nécessité de créer des mécanismes efficaces de prévention des catastrophes naturelles tels que les  tsunamis qui ont touché l’Asie du Sud-Est, les cyclones qui viennent de dévaster le sud des États-Unis, les  tremblements de terre qui ont frappé la région du Cachemire ou les inondations qui ravagent l’Amérique centrale. Face  à toutes ces tragédies, nous n’avons jamais manqué de manifester notre solidarité à l’égard des victimes et des  gouvernements des pays touchés. La vague de cyclones qui vient de frapper les États-Unis montre à quel point un pays  est en effet vulnérable aux catastrophes naturelles même s’il dispose d’énormes ressources qui devraient le mettre à  l’abri des conséquences matérielles et humaines de ces phénomènes. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, la solidarité est une valeur universelle mais pratiquée dans une mesure relative et de très nombreux peuples du  monde, pour des raisons diverses, réclament un appui et une solidarité accrus de la part de la communauté internationale.
14.3 Il y a de cela quelques années, l’évolution de la Guinée-Bissau a été détournée de son cours harmonieux  normal du fait d’une crise politique et militaire sans précédent qui a dévasté le pays, a freiné notre avancée vers le  progrès, a remis en cause toutes les conquêtes que nous avions pu faire depuis l’indépendance au prix de grands  sacrifices et a menacé l’existence même de notre État-nation. Le peuple de la Guinée a rapidement compris qu’une telle  catastrophe l’interpellait dans son essence même, dans son histoire et dans sa culture et il a su se remettre de cette phase  dramatique de son histoire. Les récentes élections présidentielles ont marqué le retour du pays à l’ordre constitutionnel
386  et à la démocratie. Après une guerre civile et deux coups d’État, une période de transition a démarré en 2003, qui a  mené à la tenue d’élections législatives en 2004 et connaît maintenant son épilogue avec les élections présidentielles de
2005. Le dilemme que pose la cohabitation politique est le grand défi qu’il va nous falloir maintenant relever. Le  nouveau système institutionnel, qui est basé sur un nouveau contrat social, contraint à se mobiliser autour de ce qui est  l’intérêt national, en laissant de côté tous les ressentiments, toutes les rancœurs, tous les différends personnels pour se  concentrer sur les priorités de la délicate mission qui consiste à restaurer la stabilité sociale et économique du pays.
14.4 Malgré ces cycles d’instabilité, la Guinée-Bissau a su conserver des caractéristiques, capacités et valeurs  propres à la faire réapparaître rapidement dans le concert international et à la faire émerger de cette crise comme une  nation capable de rendre le bien-être et la confiance dans l’avenir à ses citoyens. En effet, après avoir été plongé dans  une crise profonde, une crise de société, une crise d’État, une crise de régime, le pays a su trouver les forces et les  réserves nécessaires pour ouvrir de nouveau la voie à la réconciliation et à la concorde nationales. À l’heure actuelle,  notre pays s’est doté d’institutions démocratiques, légitimées par le vote populaire. De sorte que nous disposons d’un  cadre institutionnel tout à fait favorable pour reprendre le cours de notre histoire et relancer la reconstruction du pays  qui a beaucoup pâti du conflit politico-militaire de 1998. Le pays avance maintenant rapidement sur la voie de la  normalité démocratique et de la stabilité sociale et politique. Nous sommes bien conscients que tout ce que nous avons  obtenu jusqu’à ce jour nous l’avons obtenu grâce à l’appui et à la solidarité de la communauté internationale, en  particulier des organisations du système des Nations Unies. Mais nous ne pouvons relâcher notre effort un seul instant.  Il nous faut consolider ces récentes et fragiles conquêtes, car sinon nous courons le grand risque d’un retour en arrière  qui serait une véritable tragédie pour le pays.
14.5 La nation est consciente de l’impérieuse nécessité d’avancer, mais nous avons aussi conscience que, seuls,  nous ne pourrons pas relever les énormes défis qui nous attendent. C’est la raison pour laquelle, Monsieur le Président,  nous avons présenté à cette Conférence le texte d’un projet de résolution dont l’objet est d’appuyer la Guinée-Bissau  par la création d’un programme spécial d’aide qui serait particulièrement axé sur le secteur de l’éducation et de la  formation. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, la situation sociale est actuellement dramatique  en Guinée-Bissau. Nous avons en particulier besoin d’une aide internationale pour faire face à une épidémie de choléra  qui sévit depuis trois mois dans le pays et a déjà tué plus de 200 personnes. Le secteur de l’enseignement a besoin d’être  relancé. Nous devons transformer les écoles en véritables espaces d’apprentissage : en effet nos écoles n’offrent pas les  conditions d’un apprentissage propice à l’acquisition de connaissances et capacités qui correspondent aux besoins du  marché du travail et permettent une intégration active dans la société.
14.6 La Guinée-Bissau a l’un des taux d’analphabétisme les plus élevés de l’Afrique au sud du Sahara. En effet,  plus de 40 % des enfants d’âge scolaire de notre pays ne vont pas à l’école. Plus de 65 % de la population adulte sont  analphabètes. En outre, nous manquons d’infrastructures scolaires et beaucoup des infrastructures existantes ne sont pas  propres à permettre un processus d’enseignement/apprentissage normal. Les manuels scolaires manquent à tous les  niveaux du système éducatif et plus de 70 % des professeurs n’ont eu aucune formation professionnelle à la pédagogie.  Il est aujourd’hui plus qu’évident que pour réaliser les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous d’ici à 2015, et pour atteindre  les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement, les efforts du gouvernement ne sauraient suffire. Nous avons besoin  d’un appui accru de la part de la communauté internationale et en particulier de toutes les organisations et personnalités  qui s’occupent du secteur de l’éducation et de la formation. C’est la raison pour laquelle, j’en suis convaincu, Monsieur  le Président, le projet de résolution que nous soumettons à l’Assemblée recevra un accueil favorable de pratiquement  toutes les délégations ici présentes.
14.7 Monsieur le Président, chers collègues, le secteur de la culture n’a pas été oublié dans notre pays. Nous avons  eu le privilège de participer aux travaux de la réunion qui a élaboré l’avant-projet de convention sur la protection de la  diversité des contenus culturels et des expressions artistiques. Malgré toutes les critiques que nous avons pu entendre ici  sur le caractère restrictif de ce texte, qui a même été qualifié d’attentatoire à la libre circulation des idées, nous  continuons à penser que celui-ci est bien fondé sur les principes qui ont inspiré la création d’une commission afin de  l’élaborer. Nos pays observent avec une certaine inquiétude, en cette ère de mondialisation, l’afflux massif sur leur  territoire de produits de l’industrie culturelle des pays dominants, produits qui prennent de plus en plus de place dans les  esprits de notre population et en particulier de nos jeunes. Cette production culturelle de masse menace la survie de  formes d’expression culturelle authentiques qui doivent être protégées et qui sont, elles, le fruit d’une expérience  séculaire qu’il faut préserver. Tous les pays, en particulier les plus fragiles, doivent être aidés dans leur lutte pour  sauvegarder leur identité culturelle. C’est la raison pour laquelle nous pensons qu’il est très important de nous doter  d’une convention qui permette d’exprimer toutes ces préoccupations et nous propose des mesures idoines pour défendre  cette richesse incommensurable qu’est la diversité culturelle de l’humanité.
14.8 Il est indéniable que l’UNESCO a réalisé d’immenses avancées au cours de ces dernières années, et qu’elle  est de plus en plus désireuse de relever les défis que pose la mondialisation en cours. Cette Organisation a su devenir  plus souple, plus précise, plus orientée vers l’obtention de résultats concrets, conformes aux objectifs qu’elle s’était  fixés. Tout cet effort de modernisation de notre Organisation, tout ce qui a été fait pour rapprocher les différents  membres de la famille UNESCO, nous le devons à la remarquable personnalité de son Directeur général,  Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura. Je forme le vœu que notre Institution continue à pouvoir compter sur la clairvoyance et
387  l’énergie de notre Directeur général afin de nous mener vers de nouveaux progrès sur les fronts du savoir, de la science,  de la liberté et de la sécurité. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.    :א ١٥,١ א א א א ، א ، א ، אא א ، א.א א א א.א ،  .א
(15.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your wide-ranging statement. Your appeal on behalf of the  spread of education and the fight against cholera in your country was heard by the Conference and will be taken into  serious consideration. The honourable Dr Evelyn S. Kandakai, Minister of Education of Liberia, now has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
15.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
16.1 Ms Kandakai (Liberia):  Let me join the other speakers in greeting the President of the General Conference and congratulating him for  serving in his important role. I also want to greet others on the rostrum from the UNESCO Secretariat.
16.2 Distinguished delegates, Excellencies, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Liberia applauds UNESCO and the  United Nations on the celebration of the United Nations’ 60th anniversary. One cannot contemplate the world today  without the United Nations and its specialized agencies such as UNESCO, UNICEF, WHO and others. Without the  United Nations system, many of the fundamental, global principles we hail today – the right to life, to peace, to  education, to gender equity and so on – would be untenable. It is the United Nations system and what it stands for, with  all of its weaknesses and strengths, that has resulted in these ideals being accepted as international norms. It is the  United Nations system, through UNESCO, that has glorified a culture of peace and, to paraphrase Federico Mayor,  promoted the force of logic rather than the logic of force. The United Nations system has served as both a catalyst and a  medium for efforts to realize these ideals in our world today. While one can evaluate the work of the United Nations  system through a global lens, that lens is coloured and shaped by those of States, institutions, enterprises, individuals  and so on. In other words, although we can make statements and draw conclusions about the United Nations system or  UNESCO from a global perspective, there are bound to be continental, regional, subregional, national, non- governmental or other viewpoints. In this vein, Liberia is a country that views the United Nations system and UNESCO  with much appreciation for their accomplishments and their good relations with us, while keeping an eye out for any  improvement in their organization and governance that would be most likely to ensure that every country in the world,  especially our own, lives up to what have now come to be regarded as global standards. In this respect, we congratulate  the Director-General on the completion of his first term in office and wish him a resounding success in his second.
16.3 Liberia – largely thanks to the United Nations, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)  and the international community – now stands ready to conduct national, general and presidential elections which are  being held today – on 11 October – following the comprehensive peace agreement reached in Accra (Ghana) in August
2003, which led to the formation of the National Transitional Government of Liberia (NTGL). On 3 November 2003, in  the glow of accession to office, this government declared universal free and compulsory primary education during a  colourful ceremony in the presence of the Secretary-General of ECOWAS and the Regional Director of UNICEF. The  launch of this initiative by the Chairman of NTGL, with the backing of the UNICEF Back to School programme, was a  brave and bold move under the circumstances. This momentous decision has led to serious challenges, but we now  believe that the programme is at long last irreversibly on track. A year or so later, Liberia was graced by the most  distinguished presence of the Director-General of UNESCO who, to put it mildly, risked life and limb to visit a war-torn  country in what was not an ideal situation. Mr Director-General, we cannot tell you how much your visit meant to us,  and how much confidence it inspired and injected into our education system. We are also grateful for the UNESCO  antenna office for Liberia and Sierra Leone established in Liberia during your tenure.
16.4 We wish to take this opportunity to thank UNESCO and the United States of America for the $1,050,000  granted to Liberia as a post-conflict African country, and to thank the Italian Government and UNESCO for the grant of  almost $600,000 for the community education and vocational skills training programme – dubbed “IFIT” – which  embraces literacy, skills building and micro-credit, and which is going to cover the entire country, targeting youth and  women. Liberia is also poised to hold a donors’ conference on its education sector master plan, which is being revised,  and its education for all (EFA) action plan which was launched by the head of the transitional government on 13 May
2005. We also wish to use this occasion to thank all our bilateral and multilateral partners who have assisted in our  education programmes in so many ways. While we struggle to pursue the goals for basic education, we must raise the  alarm about the effect that the huge increase in the primary school population will have on our secondary and, hence,  tertiary level institutions; an urgent call for help not only at the primary level, for if quality is a new watchword at that  level, demanding not only enrolment but completion of primary education, we must infuse fresh momentum and  standards into vocational, secondary, technical and higher education, including teacher education.
16.5 Mr President, distinguished delegates, I would like to close on a note of optimism, especially as it relates to  the future of Liberia, engaged in the implementation of goals and targets set by our national polices and plans, which  are highly correlated with the EFA and Millennium Development Goals. I share the optimism of those who believe that  these goals are attainable. What men have done in the past, men can do now, and so can women. Liberia will rise to the  challenges of meeting these global goals, which are vital to our national interest and to the development of the  individual, who must be socialized and imbued with the norms and ideals of our one world. The world appears to be  turning a moral corner, with much concern for correcting past injustices created by worldviews of the dominant versus  the passive. One source of ideals and values that has not been fully exploited to redress these injustices is the realm of  faith. While extremism in the realm of faith threatens the world with terrorism on the negative side, on the positive side  of faith lie all those noble and true ideals that would assure true equality for all, regardless of race, creed, sex or tribe.  UNESCO is the instrument by which such ideals might enter the mainstream of world thought and action. We entertain  the hope that this vision of faith in action will be sharpened by UNESCO and grounded in our respective countries for a  much better and a more moral world. I thank you.   :א ١٧ א ، א.אא א .א.א א א א א ، א ، א א ،.א  .א
(18.1) Mr Farah (Somalia) (translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your  Excellencies, distinguished heads of delegation and delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I offer you greetings from Somalia,  a post-conflict country, a country that is emerging from a devastating civil war, from a war without a name. All that I can  say about it is that it destroyed the country and divided what had been a single people. At this point, at the beginning of  my remarks, I should like to offer my compliments to Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan on his unanimous election as President  of the 33rd session of the General Conference. I am confident that thanks to his expertise, culture and the wisdom for  which he is well known, he will conduct the work of the Conference and bring it to a successful outcome. I should also  like to compliment his predecessor, Mr Michael Omolewa, for his tireless efforts during his tenure as President of the  previous session of the General Conference. The work he performed in that capacity was remarkable, and bore the stamp  of seriousness and decisiveness. In addition, I should like to compliment Mr Hans Wrede, Chairman of the Executive  Board, for his efforts and dedication and all the work he has done in his capacity as Chairman to realize the aims of the  Organization. Lastly, on behalf of my government, I should like to offer my thanks and esteem to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura,  the Director-General of UNESCO, for his assiduous work in all the Organization’s fields of competence, his sincere  efforts, and his pioneering role in the management of the Organization during his first term of office, and my  congratulations on his nomination for a second term. I wish him all success. I should like to pause at this point to offer  our sincere condolences to Pakistan, India and Afghanistan on the ravages of the devastating earthquakes that have  afflicted their people. I should also like to express my sympathy to Guatemala for the victims of floods in that country.  On a happier note, I should like to welcome the Sultanate of Brunei Darussalam, which has recently become a member of  our Organization. I am confident that it will be a beacon of light for us all.
(18.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Conference of ours is being held at an historic stage in the history of  our Organization, which is celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of its founding. Here at the beginning of the twenty-first  century, we are standing at the gates of a new stage in the history of humanity, one that is accompanied by challenges,  concerns and tragedies. In my view, it is our duty to rise, shoulder to shoulder in solidarity, to confront these challenges.  Today, the world has become a single village, and in order for us all to live in that village, solidarity and fraternity among  all peoples are indispensable, as are mutual understanding and tolerance among all religions, and sharing among all, rich  and poor, those who are advanced and growing on the one hand, and those who are looking forward to advancement and  growth on the other. In this way we shall all be able to stand and triumph in the face of the political, economic, social and  environmental challenges that are confronting us in the twenty-first century. It is essential to promote dialogue for the  sake of mutual understanding and acceptance of others. It is essential to resist the culture of war and to spread a culture of  peace, strengthening the spirit of harmony and amity among peoples. The tasks we face include promoting literacy,  combating poverty, providing quality education for all, ensuring that the benefits of information are enjoyed by all,  developing knowledge societies, promoting an ethical outlook in the various fields of science, technology and research,  affirming the importance of cultural diversity, which in my view serves to enrich the continuing mutual exchange of  thought between peoples, acting to safeguard the environment, and protecting the tangible and intangible heritage. This is  what we believe in, and this is UNESCO’s mission, in which we take pride.
(18.3) As you all, Somalia was in a state of civil war for over 15 years. It was a devastating and bloody war that left  behind more than half a million dead, most of them unarmed civilians, including children, women and old men. It also  displaced 2 million people, some within Somalia and some beyond its borders, destroyed the country’s economy, and led  to the plundering of its resources on an unprecedented scale. Internally, warlords and their militias had no regard for  people’s lives and honour. Externally, bands of adventurers came from all sides, and foreign fleets began to plunder the  rich maritime resources of Somalia’s great length of teeming fish-filled coastal waters, taking advantage of the prevailing  situation of lawlessness and anarchy and absence of security, with no police or coastguard to interfere with them. Those  vessels used any fishing methods they liked, including some that are internationally prohibited. Other ships came to dump  toxic chemical waste on our beaches and along our coasts, open and unguarded as they were. Another aspect of this war
390  was that hospitals, schools, institutes, universities, museums and institutions of learning generally fell victim to  devastation, looting and theft, with the result that education came to a halt and our children, the pupils, were left with no  lessons to study and fell victim to violence and fighting, to say nothing of hunger, misery and homelessness. An entire  generation has had no education at all, and some of its members have carried, and continue to carry, weapons. Finally,  after many conferences on national reconciliation among Somali factions, a conference was held in Nairobi, hosted by the  Government of Kenya, with a mandate from the regional organization the Intergovernmental Authority on Development  (IGAD), and with the support of the African Union, the League of Arab States, the European Union, the United Nations  and the international community. At that conference, which was attended by most of Somalia’s heads of factions, local  rulers, tribal sheikhs, other stakeholders and representatives of civil society, the participants finally succeeded, after two  years of negotiations, in reaching agreement on the election of an interim parliament of 275 members representing all  factions and all Somalia’s 18 districts, and including meaningful representation for Somalia women. This assembly, in a  democratic, transparent procedure, elected a President of the Republic, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, who in turn appointed a  Prime Minister, also by democratic means. In Nairobi, a Somali transitional federal government was founded after  negotiations that had lasted for two years. I can say to you today, yes, Somalis have successfully achieved national  reconciliation, they have elected, transparently, their political, constitutional and administrative governing institutions,  and are looking forward to peace and stability. The government is making exhaustive efforts, through negotiation,  dialogue and persuasion, to extend peace and stability to all regions of the country. However, Mr President, ladies and  gentlemen, you must assiduously follow the news from Somalia. There are many obstacles, the way is long, and the  government, despite its Herculean efforts, may be at risk of dangers which it will have difficulty in avoiding unless it  receives meaningful assistance from the international community. Further suffering as a result of the continuation of this  situation would not lie easily on the conscience of the international community.  (The speaker continues in French)
18.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je viens de présenter à la Conférence générale un projet de  résolution concernant le renforcement de la coopération avec la Somalie, qui a certes pour principal objet d’appeler  votre attention, mais aussi de solliciter votre appui pour permettre au peuple somalien de sortir enfin de ce cauchemar  qui n’a que trop duré. Je vous remercie beaucoup.   :א ١٩,١ א ، א א א ، א א ، א א. א א א א א ، א א א  .א
(19.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your moving statement. It is to be hoped that peace and harmony  will prevail in your country, Somalia. Thank you also for your trust and congratulations. I now give the floor to the  honourable Jean-Pierre Lola Kisanga, Minister for Higher and University Education of the Democratic Republic of the  Congo.  (The speaker continues in French)
19.2 Excellence, vous avez la parole.
20.1 M. Lola Kisanga (République démocratique du Congo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres et Chers Collègues, Honorables Délégués,  Mesdames, Messieurs, au nom du Président de la République démocratique du Congo, Son Excellence Monsieur Joseph  Kabila et au nom du Gouvernement de transition, je voudrais féliciter le Président de la 33e Conférence générale de  notre Organisation pour sa brillante élection et remercier son prédécesseur pour tout le travail qu'il a accompli lors de la
32e session. Mes félicitations vont également au Directeur général, l'ami très cher de mon pays, pour le deuxième  mandat qui va lui être accordé, ce qui atteste la confiance que lui témoignent les États membres et la reconnaissance de  la qualité de la tâche qu'il a exécutée durant son premier mandat. Notre dynamique Président du Conseil exécutif ainsi  que toute son équipe méritent aussi d’être félicités pour nous avoir guidés dans l’étude des dossiers qui nous sont  présentés.
20.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la République démocratique du Congo aborde le dernier virage de sa transition  commencée en juillet 2003 et tient à remercier solennellement la communauté internationale pour son soutien grâce  auquel ses premières élections libres, démocratiques et transparentes se tiendront en 2006 et qui confèrera leur  légitimité aux institutions et à leurs animateurs. Au sortir d’une période de troubles et de conflits divers, la RDC tient à  consolider la paix dans l'ensemble de la région d'Afrique centrale et s'engage à combattre le terrorisme international et  la violence sous toutes leurs formes. Soucieuse de son peuple, elle réaffirme sa détermination à mener une lutte sans  merci contre la pauvreté. Nous sommes également très sensibles à toutes les catastrophes naturelles qui endeuillent la  planète, et à toutes ces populations qui souffrent, auxquelles nous exprimons notre compassion. Aussi, avons-nous  sollicité l'attention de la communauté internationale pour qu'une action de solidarité internationale soit organisée  d’urgence en pareille circonstance. Monsieur le Président, lors de la 32e session de la Conférence générale, cette auguste  assemblée a honoré mon pays en adoptant la Résolution 32 C/COM.I/DR.5 par laquelle elle invite le Directeur général à  aider son gouvernement dans ses efforts de reconstruction au titre du Programme et budget 2004-2005 et au-delà, au
391  travers de la Stratégie de coopération UNESCO-RDC dont une première évaluation a relevé la réussite de plusieurs  actions menées dans le cadre de sa mise en œuvre. La version déposée au Secrétariat en donne une description détaillée.
20.3 Monsieur le Directeur général, je me permets de vous communiquer les principales remarques de mon pays  au sujet du document 33 C/5. Au sujet du Grand programme I : Éducation, il félicite 1’UNESCO d'avoir retenu comme  priorité principale l'éducation de base, ce qui correspond à ses préoccupations, et il souhaite participer aux trois  principales activités suivantes : l’alphabétisation pour accéder à l'autonomie, le VIH/sida ainsi que l’éducation et la  formation des enseignants en Afrique subsaharienne. S'agissant de cette dernière initiative, mon pays tient à encourager
1'UNESCO à soutenir l'effort de renforcement des capacités de 1'Université pédagogique nationale de Kinshasa, axé en  priorité sur la formation des formateurs et dont les programmes ont été élevés au niveau de la formation doctorale, et ce  dans le cadre du Programme de redressement du secteur éducatif au Congo, le PRESEC. Le renforcement des capacités  dans le domaine de la planification, de la gestion et de l'évaluation de la mise en œuvre de l'Éducation pour tous  intéresse particulièrement mon pays qui procède actuellement à la diffusion de son Plan sur tout le territoire national.  Améliorer la qualité de l'éducation est le maître-mot qui guide nos actions dans ce secteur. Aussi, appuyons-nous toute  initiative mentionnée dans le document 33 C/5 qui est de nature à y contribuer. Notre pays remercie et félicite
1'UNESCO pour les efforts entrepris pour nous doter de nouveaux programmes d'enseignement, mais il souhaiterait  qu’ils se poursuivent en vue de réformer le programme de philosophie et d’enseignement des sciences et de la  technologie, 1'utilisation des nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication dans le domaine de  l'éducation, et particulièrement 1'utilisation de didacticiels de l'enseignement à distance pour lesquels ils sollicite un  appui, surtout en ce qui concerne leur production pour les structures tant formelles que non formelles. Les Chaires  UNESCO créées en RDC accomplissent un travail important dans différents domaines et méritent donc toute l'attention  de l'Organisation.
20.4 En ce qui concerne le Grand programme II : Sciences exactes et naturelles, le fait d'avoir considéré l'eau et  les écosystèmes associés comme la priorité principale est conforme à nos préoccupations. La RDC participe activement  à la Décennie internationale d'action « L’eau, source de vie », en interaction avec la Décennie des Nations Unies pour  l'éducation en vue du développement durable. Elle attache une grande importance aux sciences fondamentales sans  lesquelles aucun développement durable ne peut être envisagé. Aussi, sera-t-elle présente à toutes les manifestations  organisées dans ce domaine et retient-elle le renforcement des capacités de ses institutions de recherche comme axe  d'action prioritaire. La RDC a toujours souhaité participer au Programme solaire mondial auquel elle a fait parvenir ses  projets hautement prioritaires. Or, à ce jour, aucune suite n’y a été donnée. L'atténuation des effets des catastrophes  naturelles est une question qui concerne ses populations, lesquelles ont besoin d’y être sensibilisées, en particulier les  femmes, les associations locales et les organisations non gouvernementales.
20.5 Pour ce qui est des sciences sociales et humaines, mon pays apprécie toutes les priorités retenues dans ce  secteur, surtout la démarche globale adoptée par 1'UNESCO, qui consiste à consolider le travail accompli au cours des  exercices précédents, notamment en assurant le suivi des actions inscrites dans la Stratégie de coopération entre  l'Organisation et mon pays ; ce processus est satisfaisant, surtout s’il apporte des solutions concrètes aux problèmes liés  à notre pays en transition et en situation d’après-conflit. En cette période préélectorale, l'accompagnement de
1'UNESCO dans toutes les étapes est vivement souhaité, surtout pour promouvoir la citoyenneté et 1’État de droit,  préalable à un développement durable. Les questions liées à l'égalité des genres préoccupent mon pays en cette période  cruciale. Nous sommes en faveur de la création du Centre africain d’études et de recherches sur la femme dans les pays  des Grands Lacs et disposés à y participer, conformément à la recommandation formulée à l'issue de la Consultation sur  l'autonomisation des femmes dans la région des Grands Lacs, organisée à Addis-Abeba, en Éthiopie. La constitution de  la RDC qui sera soumise le 17 décembre 2005 au référendum populaire prévoit une représentation féminine de 50 %,  dans toutes les institutions de la République après les élections, ce qui revient à consacrer le principe de la parité.
20.6 En ce qui concerne la culture, mon pays approuve le sous-programme proposé par l'Organisation et fera de sa  priorité principale son cheval de bataille par la consolidation des liens entre la diversité culturelle et le dialogue,  fondement d'un développement durable. Il salue le financement reçu de l'UNESCO pour le projet ITUL dont il souhaite  la proclamation par l'Organisation comme chef-d’œuvre immatériel. Le modèle de certificat d'exportation des biens  culturels établi par l'Organisation a retenu son attention. Il l'encourage à poursuivre ses efforts dans ce domaine qui  revêt une importance cruciale pour lui. Nous ne pouvons clore ce chapitre sans faire allusion à l'expérience tentée en  RDC, surtout dans sa partie est, pour résoudre des conflits ethniques, à savoir le projet intitulé Barza  intercommunautaire qui mérite l’attention de l’Organisation. Ces efforts se poursuivront dans les autres provinces de  l’est touchées par la guerre. Il s’agit d’une démarche rationnelle et d’une vision intégrée de réinsertion des  communautés à la base, à la suite des profondes déchirures sociales et des fractures sociologiques qui les ont marquées  durant les conflits qui ont secoué notre pays.
20.7 La RDC appuie le programme Communication et information concernant l'autonomisation des populations  par l'accès à l'information et au savoir, et notamment : promouvoir la liberté d'expression et le développement de la  communication de même que l’utilisation des technologies de 1’information et de la communication à des fins  éducatives, scientifiques et culturelles au profit des nations les moins avancées. Les axes d'action prioritaires dans ce  domaine ont retenu son attention et elle sollicite l'appui de l'Organisation pour leur concrétisation.
20.8 Concernant le volet soutien au programme, la RDC appuie la position de l'Organisation sur la promotion de  sa coopération avec l'Afrique à travers le NEPAD, le programme PEER et l'EPT, justifiée par l'augmentation du budget  alloué par rapport à celui de 2004-2005. Elle souhaite voir les États membres d'Afrique bénéficier d'un soutien accru  pour atteindre l'ensemble des objectifs. La RDC invite le Département Afrique de l'UNESCO à poursuivre son action  sans désemparer, tout en comptant sur son soutien.
20.9 Au nom du Président de la République démocratique du Congo et du Gouvernement de transition, je souhaite  plein succès aux assises de la présente Conférence générale de 1'UNESCO et réaffirme tout l’appui de mon pays aux  activités et programmes de l'Organisation. Notre appui est également acquis au Directeur général pour son deuxième  mandat. Le Président de la République vous invite, Monsieur le Directeur général, à venir visiter la République  démocratique du Congo et d’ores et déjà, si cela vous agrée, mon pays par ma voix vous souhaite une cordiale  bienvenue. Je vous remercie.   :א ٢١,١ א א.א، א א.א.א א א א ، א  ..א
(21.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister. Your appeal to the Conference for international support was heard. Thank  you also for your kind congratulations. I now give the floor to the honourable Joe Natuman, Minister of Education of  Vanuatu. Please go ahead.  (The President continues in English)
21.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
22.1 Mr Natuman (Vanuatu):  Mr President of the 33rd session of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow us to join the  previous speakers in conveying to you our sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to head this august body.  We would also like to pay tribute to the outgoing president, Ambassador Michael Omolewa, for his able leadership  during the 32nd session of the General Conference. Furthermore, we wish to congratulate Mr Koïchiro Matsuura on his  nomination to serve a second term as Director-General of UNESCO. We also take this opportunity to welcome Brunei  Darussalam for its admission to UNESCO, and Singapore for its decision to become a Permanent Observer. Their  decision to do so will clearly contribute to the universality of the Organization.
22.2 Mr President, Vanuatu is a small island developing State (SIDS) in the South-West Pacific and is also a least  developed country (LDC) with few natural resources. We therefore have no choice but to invest in the most important  resource that we have: our people. In this connection, since 1980, successive Vanuatu governments have continued to  attach paramount importance to education as a means to build a sustainable future for the country. To demonstrate its  commitment to this endeavour, our government decided in the late 1980s to abolish primary school fees. Currently, the  education sector alone consumes about 20% of the annual national recurrent budget.
22.3 In so far as education for all (EFA) is concerned, Mr President, I am pleased to acknowledge the help we  received from the UNESCO cluster office in Apia in drafting our EFA National Plan of Action for 2001-2015, after its  examination by the Vanuatu National EFA Forum which consisted of government, civil society and other stakeholders,  including the Vanuatu Teachers Union. We continue to update this Plan of Action and the latest version, which was for
2004, was well integrated with the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the government’s  Medium-Term Prioritized Action Agenda (PAA), the Ministry of Education’s 2004-2006 Corporate Plan and the  Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Master Plan for 2003-2010. Mr President, given the work we  have done on EFA in the last five years, we have managed to increase enrolment rates for school-age children up to  about 90% and we will be on target by 2015. Similarly, in terms of retention rate, we had decided on a policy to provide
10 years’ basic education to our children; that is two years at pre-school and eight years at primary school level. This  policy will be implemented as from 2006, when 89 schools throughout the country have been selected as Centre  Schools to enrol students completing class 6 at the end of this year. Students entering class 7 and class 8 basic education  will, in addition to the normal core subjects, also be taught basic life skills. We will continue to integrate technical and  vocational education and training into the formal education system and align this with the employment requirements of  industry. But as we expand basic education, this also puts pressure on our secondary education sector, which we also  need the resources to expand. Gender parity stands at around 48%. However, it is the area of quality education that we  continue to be concerned about. In this regard, the need to train, retrain and retain good qualified teachers is so crucial.  We are doing this at the Vanuatu Institute for Teacher Education (VITE). Furthermore, we started a programme late last  year designed to accord status to our hard-working teachers and acknowledge their efforts. The programme entails the  President of Vanuatu visiting actively serving or retired teachers and awarding them a national medal of merit.  Therefore, Mr President, we are happy to note the education programme set out in document 33 C/5, which we  discussed in Commission II and fully endorse, thereby enabling UNESCO to contribute in the next biennium to our
393  national education efforts. In addition, we would like to thank the Director-General for restoring the Young  Professionals programme in document 33 C/5 and, given that the Pacific region is under-represented in the Secretariat,  we urge that our future applicants for this programme be given serious consideration as a way to redress the current  geographical imbalance.
22.4 Mr President, with a population of 200,000 people, Vanuatu has been blessed by inheriting 112 indigenous  languages. Per capita this makes us perhaps the most diverse country on the planet. Given this background, therefore,  Mr President, you can understand our position on the preliminary draft convention on the protection and promotion of  the diversity of cultural expressions, which we strongly support. We also support the other draft texts that are being  submitted to the General Conference: the draft international convention against doping in sport and the draft universal  declaration on bioethics and human rights.
22.5 Concerning natural disaster preparedness, we welcome the work undertaken by UNESCO to establish early  warning systems in the Indian Ocean following the devastation caused by the tsunami last December, and call on the  Organization to work with other organizations in the Pacific such as the World Meteorological Organization (WMO)  and the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission (SOPAC) to set up similar early warning systems, particularly  for the South-West Pacific, so that the whole of our region will have full coverage.
22.6 Finally, Mr President, the need for peace in the world is urgent. In too many parts of the world, national and  international conflicts are taking lives. In celebrating the Organization’s 60th anniversary, UNESCO’s mission,  therefore, as set out in its Constitution, is as necessary and relevant today as it was in 1945. The programme of work in  the area of education that UNESCO follows in the next biennium – and the years to come for that matter – should be  focused directly on developing tolerance among all people, promoting human rights and respect for all cultures,  protecting the environment, closing the knowledge and communication gaps and continuing to set high standards for all  human endeavours. Other United Nations agencies will contribute to these goals, but UNESCO’s special role is to  promote a strong ethical vision in which all people matter so that today’s children may have hope for a safer, more just  and better future. Under the leadership of UNESCO and in partnership with other Member States, organizations and  civil societies, we reaffirm our commitment to promoting the realization of UNESCO’s mission. Mr President,  distinguished delegates, thank you for your attention.   :א ٢٣,١ א א ، א ، א.א א ، ، א א.، א א א א א א،א א א א ،.
(23.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your instructive statement and for your congratulations. I  salute you because there are 100,000 of you and you have 112 languages and you live in close-knit harmony and  cooperation, with one language for every 1,000 people. That is a good example for us to follow. I now give the floor to  the honourable Chitranganee Wagiswara, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Permanent Delegate to  UNESCO.  (The President continues in English)
23.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor, please.
24.1 Ms Wagiswara (Sri Lanka):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an honour and a privilege for me to speak on  behalf of the leader of the delegation of Sri Lanka, the Deputy Minister for Education, who unfortunately is not in a  position to make this statement today on account of commitments in Sri Lanka. On his behalf, let me convey our best  wishes for a successful and productive conference.
24.2 I wish to begin by extending my warm congratulations to the President of the General Conference, His  Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan. We are indeed fortunate to be guided by your vast experience and wisdom  and we wish you every success. I would like to extend our sincere appreciation to the outgoing President, His  Excellency Professor Michael Omolewa, for an excellent job done over the past biennium. I take this opportunity to  congratulate the Director-General, His Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, on his nomination for a second term in office.  We are indeed confident that you will once again exceed our expectations in the smooth and efficient running of this  Organization in order that we achieve its noble objectives. I applaud the Director-General and the UNESCO Secretariat  for being responsible for guiding the transition of UNESCO in order to intensify its impact and relevance from a global  perspective.
24.3 Sri Lanka is pleased to note the accomplishments of the recently concluded Executive Board meeting. The  Executive Board has clearly indicated that increased focus needs to be placed on achieving the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs), especially those relating to UNESCO’s core mandate.
24.4 Mr President, since gaining independence in 1948, successive governments of Sri Lanka have continued to  give priority to free education from preschool to university level, thus enabling us to maintain a high rate of literacy and  attain a high rating in the Human Development Index. Mr President, you would no doubt agree that improving literacy  and attaining a high human development index ranking do not necessarily guarantee the desired levels of development.  Sri Lanka is a classic example of this paradox. Education without the required sustainable development results in a  constant brain drain and high levels of unemployment among educated youth. We could overcome this only through the  growth of the economy coupled with sustained development of the country. Individual countries, especially developing  countries such as ours, therefore look to UNESCO’s wide mandate, which enables it to help developing countries to  achieve their development goals through capacity-building and transfer of technology.
24.5 It is imperative that we recognize the advances made in the field of science which contribute to a large extent  to uplifting the quality of life of mankind. The key to progress is science and technology. We therefore welcome the  initiatives taken by UNESCO to provide equitable access to scientific information and endorse the programmes and  projects being implemented in this sphere.
24.6 I wish to take this opportunity to thank the Director-General and UNESCO for the assistance extended to Sri  Lanka following the tsunami and for the action being taken to have in place a tsunami early warning and mitigation  system in the Indian Ocean. Our hearts go out to the victims of yet another natural disaster: the earthquake last week in  Pakistan and India, and also to the victims of Hurricane Katrina last month and of the floods in some of the countries in  Central America.
24.7 Mr President, as a country which has cultural and religious diversity deeply embedded in its identity, Sri  Lanka embraces the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. The  omnipotent market forces tend to engulf cultural contents and expressions as they sweep across borders, leading to a  natural selection of the stronger, industrially developed cultures, submerging the less organized cultures of the world.  Developing countries, particularly, bear the brunt of cultural globalization as they have to concentrate on economic  development and reform at the expense of their cultural goals. Furthermore, cultural industries are underdeveloped in  countries like ours and, in the absence of an international structure to preserve diversity particularly in the absence of  the necessary infrastructure, we are unable to ensure their sustenance and growth.
24.8 The Government of Sri Lanka strongly commends the Director-General for timely and cohesive action by  UNESCO in drafting a convention that aims to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions. We hope that  the General Conference will adopt this convention shortly.
24.9 The Government of Sri Lanka is pleased to host World Press Freedom Day in 2006, under the auspices of  UNESCO. Sri Lanka has long since been committed to freedom of the press and has continuously promoted and  safeguarded the rights of journalists and fostered a media culture devoid of state intervention. I must state here that the  existence of media devoid of state intervention or control does not guarantee media freedom and plurality. It is also  important that the media should focus on the general interest of the public and not on private interests. Mr President,  one cannot emphasize enough how important it is for the media to have trained professionals, the facilities to gather and  analyse information, and, importantly, the infrastructure to sustain economically viable operations. It is evident that the  development efforts of the United Nations agencies and other donors in developing countries would be undoubtedly  complemented by the development of media structures that could observe and report on the implementation of  development projects. International cooperation to promote free and pluralistic media therefore should become part and  parcel of development assistance.
24.10 I wish also to emphasize that developing countries have gone through changes in the media landscape  alongside political changes over the past few decades. Global media expansion is a fact. We are now more informed  about global issues. There has been a remarkable increase in the independent media at the national level. However, the  media have also become an industry, with increasing focus on profits. Issues that are more attractive to those with  higher purchasing power have come to take precedence over the social and democratic role of the media. In this  profit-oriented environment many developmental concerns are often under-reported or even unreported. Space available  to voice the concerns of the poor and the marginalized has become minimal. As a result, the communication needs of  these people have become nobody’s concern. We believe that UNESCO is uniquely placed to address these concerns.
24.11 Mr President, Sri Lanka, as a country that has been plagued with the menace of terrorism for over two  decades, expresses its solidarity with the global fight against terrorism. The recent assassination of our foreign minister  has brought to the fore questions on the role of the international community in the peace process in Sri Lanka. The  Government of Sri Lanka believes that, in a globalized world, the international community has an important role to play  as conflicts within a nation are often influenced by international developments and pressures. In this context we in Sri  Lanka welcome the recent declaration by the European Union Member States which has sent a clear signal that the  European Union Member States are not willing to tolerate the blatant abuse of human rights, the use of violence and  terrorism, and the continued recruitment of child soldiers. We urge UNESCO to use its mandate to persuade young  people in particular that they should renounce the pursuit of violence and engage in the process of democracy and peace.
395  I am confident, Mr President, that together we will be able to rid our world of the menace of global terrorism so that our  future generations can live in a peaceful world.
24.12 Mr President, I would like to conclude by congratulating UNESCO on 60 years of excellence. As stated by  our President in her statement at the inauguration of the General Conference, Sri Lanka, too, concludes 60 years of  membership in UNESCO. We look forward to continuing this fruitful cooperation with UNESCO and pledge to  cooperate with UNESCO and to support it in achieving the noble ideals set out in the Constitution for a more  prosperous future for us all. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٢٥ א ، א א ، א ، א.א א א א א א א ، א.، ،  .א
(25) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your interesting and comprehensive address, and thank you too  for your trust and support. I now give the floor to the honourable Rachad Farah, Ambassador of Djibouti, Permanent  Delegate to UNESCO. Your Excellency, please go ahead.
26.1 M. Farah (Djibouti) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale de l'UNESCO, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général de l'UNESCO, Excellences, Honorables Délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c'est un  grand honneur pour moi et pour mon pays de prendre la parole devant cette auguste assemblée. Permettez-moi de  féliciter le Directeur général, Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura, pour tous les efforts qu'il déploie pour maintenir très haut la  flamme de notre Organisation. Nous saisissons aussi cette occasion de le féliciter pour son nouveau mandat. Nous le  soutenons dans toutes ses actions et sommes convaincus qu'elles seront très bénéfiques pour notre Organisation. Je  saisis également l'occasion pour féliciter Monsieur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, Délégué permanent du Sultanat d'Oman  auprès de l'UNESCO, pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de la présente session de la Conférence générale et lui  souhaite plein succès dans ses fonctions. Je salue également les efforts qui ont été déployés par son prédécesseur, Son  Excellence Monsieur Michael Abiola Omolewa. Mes félicitations s’adressent également au Président du Conseil  exécutif.
26.2 L'attention dont a bénéficié la République de Djibouti de la part de l'UNESCO est d'autant plus importante  qu'elle intervient à un moment où, sous la direction du chef de l'État, Son Excellence Monsieur Guelleh, notre pays  entamait de profondes réformes institutionnelles et politiques. En effet, depuis son élection à la magistrature suprême en
1999, le Président de la République a impulsé une dynamique tendant à moderniser l'appareil administratif. Les points  saillants de cette politique sont : la refonte de la politique éducative pour accélérer les objectifs de l'Éducation pour tous  (EPT) ; la création d'un pôle d'enseignement supérieur pour favoriser la rétention des cadres et promouvoir la qualité de  l'EPT ; la reconnaissance de la femme comme acteur à part entière du développement social, économique et politique du  pays ; la promotion de la bonne gouvernance et de l'État de droit ; le développement de la culture ; le souci de la  préservation de l'environnement.
26.3 L'aide des pays qui soutiennent la cause du développement et du renouveau de l’éducation en République de  Djibouti a également été appréciable. Je voudrais remercier ici tous les pays amis qui se sont impliqués chez nous, en  particulier la France, le Japon, les pays arabes du Golfe, les États-Unis d'Amérique, l'Union européenne et ses membres,  ainsi que tous les autres pays amis et organisations. Parmi ces efforts pour une amélioration du système éducatif dans  les pays en développement, je voudrais décrire l'expérience que j'ai vécue au sein de la Conférence internationale de  Tokyo sur le développement de l’Afrique (TICAD), institution mise en place en 1993 qui a eu pour effet une  implication importante du Japon dans le secteur de l'éducation et de la culture. Dans le cadre du plan d'action issu de la  TICAD, plusieurs écoles et collèges ont été construits et ceci a contribué à l'augmentation de la population scolarisable  et à la modernisation du système éducatif.
26.4 Monsieur le Président, la culture est devenue pour nous un important moyen idéal de rapprocher les nations  de la région, notamment par l'organisation régulière d’une manifestation culturelle interrégionale connue sous le nom de  Fête de la Corne, ou FESTHORN. Cette manifestation d'échange et d'enrichissement intellectuel réunit chaque année à  Djibouti des artistes et des intellectuels des pays de la sous-région et contribue ainsi à nourrir ce dialogue et à  rapprocher les cœurs. Je suis heureux de savoir que l’UNESCO, dans le droit fil de cette idée, va organiser bientôt à  Paris un symposium préparatoire qui réunira les intellectuels de la Corne de l’Afrique. La République de Djibouti,  comme vous le savez, a toujours encouragé la renaissance d'un esprit nouveau et pacifique dans la Corne de l'Afrique. À  cet égard, je rappellerai les efforts visant à renforcer le processus de renaissance, de réconciliation et de paix en Somalie  déployés par notre pays lors de la Conférence de paix pour la Somalie qui s'est tenue à Arta. Je saisis cette occasion qui  m'est offerte aujourd’hui de m’adresser à vous pour demander à la communauté internationale et à l’UNESCO de  soutenir davantage nos frères et sœurs somaliens pour les aider à instaurer plus solidement une paix durable et à  reconstruire leur pays ravagé par tant d'années de guerre pour que, bientôt, la nation somalienne retrouve sa place dans  le concert des nations.
26.5 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, par mon intervention devant vous tous, je souhaite réitérer  l'attachement de mon pays à l'appui que l'UNESCO accorde à la politique de développement social durable engagée par  la République de Djibouti, et au renforcement de ce soutien, notamment dans les domaines de la culture, des sciences et  de l'éducation. Pour ce dernier secteur, je sollicite un élargissement de cette aide qui prenne en compte le programme en  faveur du déploiement de la politique nationale de développement de la petite enfance, lequel est, sans conteste, un  facteur déterminant du renforcement de l'efficacité et de l'efficience des services éducatifs en vue de réaliser l'EPT et  d’atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Ce soutien, au demeurant, s'inscrit dans les activités de  l'UNESCO.
26.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, je voudrais, en conclusion, réitérer nos engagements en faveur des idéaux et  objectifs de l'UNESCO qui, 60 ans après sa création, s’impose toujours comme le haut lieu de la culture de la paix et de  la promotion du dialogue entre les civilisations. Nous devons tous redoubler d’efforts et renforcer notre solidarité pour  la promotion et le triomphe de ces idéaux face aux extrémismes de tous bords qui veulent saper les principes de  tolérance et d'entente entre les nations. Je vous remercie.   :א ٢٧ א א ، א ، א.א א א א.א א.א א א אא א א ، ،  .א
(27) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your interesting and wide-ranging statement. Your appeal on  behalf of Somalia was noted by the General Conference. I appreciate your support and your kind congratulations. And  now the honourable Florencia Ballivián de Romero, Ambassador of Bolivia, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO has the  floor.
(28.1) Ms Ballivián de Romero (Bolivia) (translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Ladies and Gentlemen: my Delegation would  like to congratulate you, Mr President, on being chosen to preside over the work of this session of the General  Conference and to assure you of our cooperation in ensuring the success of the tasks with which you have been entrusted.  I should also like to congratulate Mr Matsuura on his re-election as Director-General. We are confident that during his  new term he will take the necessary steps to strengthen still further the relations between UNESCO and Bolivia. A few  days ago, at the start of the celebration of the 60th anniversary of our Organization, we heard in this same room, a  magnificent interpretation of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, a musical masterpiece inscribed by UNESCO on the  Memory of the World Register, which is an eloquent testimony to the creative capacity of art. At the same time, at that  very moment, a number of Central American countries were suffering storms and volcanic eruptions, in a relentless  demonstration of the forces of nature, causing desolation and human and material destruction. Today Pakistan and India  are victims of another natural disaster. We should like to express our solidarity with and condolences to these countries.  All these phenomena, ranging from the most harmonious human creativity, such as the symphony, to uncontrollable  natural phenomena, are covered by UNESCO’s programme, which includes preserving and fostering art and its  expressions and helping to set up early-warning systems. That is what makes UNESCO's mission so valid and relevant.
(28.2) Bolivia is a founding member of this Organization and during all this time it has worked with all the Member  States to respond to the challenges of a complex international situation and help give practical expression to the  principles on which UNESCO was founded. The results of our efforts have been to some degree encouraging.  Nevertheless, new and difficult challenges confront us, and it is obvious that much remains to be done. My country, for  example, decided to incorporate the Millennium Development Goals into its social policies, following a participatory  process of national consultation and work coordinated with the United Nations specialized agencies, lending institutions  and international cooperation bodies. Yet it is unlikely that we can reach our goals by 2015, especially the eradication of  extreme poverty and the goals set for education and health. This outlook only serves to strengthen our commitment,  which is why we are urging UNESCO to contribute more decisively to this effort, which constitutes a shared priority in  the field of education. Bolivia has increased its national budget and set up a National Education for All Programme to  give effect to the commitments made at the world summits, in particular the 1989 Jomtien meeting. Since 1994 Bolivia  has been carrying out a programme of educational reform, which lays down the democratic character of education and  provides for an intercultural and bilingual approach to education, in response to the country's socio-cultural heterogeneity.  The first phase of the programme was focused on the primary level, and we are now engaged in a process of consultation  and collaboration for drawing up a new strategy for Bolivian education. The activities promoted in the field of education,  combined with the country's economic development, have increased access to primary education and are yielding  favourable indicators with regard to the level and quality of education; yet poverty and political instability are having a  negative impact on the achievement of better results. Culture is one area in which UNESCO has an excellent reputation  and enormous prestige in Bolivia due to the recognition of various sites and expressions as the tangible and intangible  heritage of humanity. Joint efforts are being made to preserve these works and expressions, and I should like to reiterate  my Government's interest in maintaining and strengthening this cooperation.
(28.3) With respect to the work of the 33rd session of the General Conference, I wish to mention that the Bolivian  Delegation has participated actively and constructively in the intergovernmental meetings at which discussed the legal  instruments to be adopted by the Conference were negotiated. Where the draft convention on the protection of the  diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions is concerned, Bolivia strongly supports the adoption of this  convention, having helped to incorporate into the text the concept of “interculturality”, which constitutes a legal basis for  the recognition and the fostering of relations among different ethnic and cultural groups. Similarly, my Delegation  supports the draft declaration on universal norms on bioethics and emphasizes that the text of this instrument includes
398  specific references to social and environmental questions, thereby providing a framework for legal recommendations of  universal scope and ensuring that the application of bioethics is not confined to medicine and the life sciences.
(28.4) In connection with the Organization’s reform process, especially the report by the ad hoc working group on  relations between the three organs, Bolivia considers that this question must be addressed at the intergovernmental level  and cover such important issues as the role of the National Commissions and the Permanent Delegations to UNESCO in  Paris. Lastly, Bolivia supports the resolutions adopted by the respective Commissions concerning the functioning of the  international convention against doping in sport and recommending the adoption of a zero nominal growth budget for the
(29.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your interesting and instructive statement, and likewise thank  you for your congratulations. We have now come to the end of the statements of Member States, and shall move on to  hear some equally interesting statements, first of all non-governmental organizations. I should like to remind you that the  time allotted to non-governmental organizations is four minutes. Therefore, it will be a great gift for you if you speak for  less. So, I first call upon Senator Jacques Legendre, Secretary General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the  Francophonie.  (The President continues in French)
29.2 Vous avez la parole, Monsieur le sénateur.
30.1 M. Legendre (Assemblée parlementaire de la Francophonie) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord de saluer votre élection, Monsieur le  Président de la Conférence générale, et de vous féliciter pour celle-ci. Permettez-moi également de vous dire que  l’Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie se réjouit de la réélection annoncée au poste de Directeur général de  Monsieur Matsuura, avec qui nous entretenons des relations de travail et de confiance. L’Assemblée parlementaire de la  Francophonie (APF) est l’Assemblée consultative de l’Organisation internationale de la Francophonie ; elle regroupe  des parlementaires de plus de 70 parlements ou organisations interparlementaires répartis sur les cinq continents. Son  action vise principalement à promouvoir et défendre la démocratie, l’État de droit, le respect des droits de l’homme, le  rayonnement international de la langue française et la diversité culturelle. La défense du pluralisme culturel est au cœur  de notre action, tant en sont immenses les enjeux culturels, économiques et, avouons-le, politiques. Nous poursuivons  bien des objectifs avec l’UNESCO, je pense notamment à l’Éducation Pour Tous, et la convention de coopération que  nous avons signée avec elle au mois de juillet dernier n’a fait que formaliser l’étroitesse des relations que nous avons  tissées au cours du temps.
30.2 Il n’en reste pas moins que ce n’est pas sans une certaine émotion que nous nous exprimons pour la première  fois à cette tribune. La Francophonie, laboratoire de la diversité culturelle en raison de sa vocation et de sa composition  géographique et économique, forte de son expérience spécifique au service du développement, a structuré et renforcé  ses interventions en faveur de la diversité culturelle. Celle-ci a déjà été érigée en priorité par le Sommet des chefs d’État  et de gouvernement organisé à Maurice en 1994 et a fait l’objet, outre de nombreux débats généraux, de la Conférence  des ministres de la culture qui s’est déroulée à Cotonou en 2001 et du Sommet tenu à Beyrouth en 2002. Les chefs  d’État et de gouvernement de la Francophonie ont manifesté un engagement ferme et sans équivoque en faveur de la  diversité culturelle lors du Sommet tenu à Ouagadougou, au Burkina Faso, les 26 et 27 novembre 2004. Cette position  conforte un souhait profond de l’Assemblée parlementaire de la Francophonie, qui, dans une résolution adoptée à sa  session de Niamey en 2000, avait déjà apporté son soutien à l’affirmation selon laquelle il est du droit de chaque peuple  de préserver et de promouvoir la diversité culturelle et de s’assurer qu’aucune règle de libéralisation du commerce ne  mette en péril sa capacité à promouvoir sa propre culture et sa propre identité. Elle avait alors recommandé au Sommet  des chefs d’État « d’adopter le principe d’une convention internationale consacrée à la diversité culturelle au sein d’une  instance spécifiquement préoccupée de la promotion de la culture ».
30.3 Vous comprendrez donc que c’est avec une particulière attention que nous avons suivi, grâce notamment à  notre commission de la culture et à son rapporteur Monsieur Jacques Chagnon, du Québec, les discussions ayant  conduit à l’élaboration de l’avant-projet de convention sur la protection de la diversité des contenus culturels et des  expressions artistiques, dont vous débattrez au cours de cette 33e session. En 2004, l’APF avait adopté une résolution  qui exhortait les États et gouvernements membres de la Francophonie à s’abstenir, au sein de l’OMC, de tout  engagement de libéralisation en matière de biens et services culturels, et à honorer ce principe également dans le cadre  d’accords commerciaux bilatéraux et régionaux. L’APF s’attache à promouvoir une convention forte, confirmant
399  clairement le droit des États à mettre en œuvre des politiques culturelles, et non un texte aux vertus purement  déclaratoires. Elle est particulièrement attentive à : la définition d’un champ d’application clairement et strictement  circonscrit aux expressions culturelles ; à la promotion d’un instrument d’une portée juridique au moins égale à celle  des accords commerciaux et autres traités internationaux ; à la définition des droits et obligations des États et d’un  mécanisme de suivi et de règlement des différends, et à la création d’un cadre de coopération en faveur des pays en  développement.
30.4 C’est ce que nous attendons, Monsieur le Président, de cette 33e session de la Conférence générale. C’est ce  que nous espérons, et nous vous remercions d’avoir écouté aujourd’hui notre message.   Mr Alawadhi (Yemen) takes the Chair.   :א ٣١ א.א א، א  .א
(31) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I should like to invite Rudy Salles, representative of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, to be so kind  as to take the floor to deliver his statement.
32.1 M. Salles (Union interparlementaire) :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ministres, Mesdames et Messieurs les Ambassadeurs,  Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est avec le plus vif plaisir que je prends la parole ici dans la Maison de l’UNESCO et que je  salue chaleureusement tous les participants au nom de l’Union interparlementaire, dont la participation aux travaux de  la Conférence générale, désormais régulière, résulte de la volonté de l’UNESCO, sous l’impulsion de son Directeur  général, d’associer à son action pour la paix les parlements qui, dans un cadre démocratique, sont l’expression la plus  légitime de la société dans toute sa diversité. Les parlements, et l’organisation qui les représente, entendent relayer  l’opinion publique mondiale auprès des organisations internationales comme l’UNESCO, alors que se concrétise peu à  peu la réflexion sur la réforme des institutions internationales, avec pour toile de fond la mondialisation. Cette  mondialisation s’accomplit inexorablement et il est essentiel qu’elle s’accompagne du renforcement des parlements,  lesquels doivent aussi faire entendre la voix des peuples sur la scène internationale. En effet, les engagements pris par  les gouvernements au sein des différentes instances internationales sont des engagements d’État et, en tant que tels, ils  ne sauraient être mis en œuvre sans le concours de l’ensemble des institutions fondamentales de l’État, et donc du  Parlement. Cette dimension parlementaire des institutions internationales a déjà trouvé de nombreuses expressions  concrètes à l’UNESCO, qu’il s’agisse, en ce qui concerne l’Union interparlementaire, de l’organisation conjointe de  conférences spécialisées ou de co-publications. La dernière en date de ces initiatives est une Table ronde parlementaire  sur les thèmes de l’Éducation pour tous et de la ratification des conventions internationales dans le domaine du  patrimoine culturel, table ronde qui doit se tenir en salle IX mercredi 12 octobre, à 15 heures, et à laquelle prendront  part notamment certains des points focaux parlementaires de l’UNESCO, réseau mondial dont la mise en place se  poursuit en collaboration avec l’UIP. La coopération entre nos deux organisations, c’est aussi le Guide de la pratique  parlementaire, axé sur les politiques et stratégies de l’UNESCO et destiné aux collaborateurs des organisations  internationales travaillant en concertation avec les parlements. C’est enfin l’élaboration entreprise par l’UNESCO, avec  les conseils de l’UIP, d’un Guide à l’intention des parlementaires sur l’Éducation pour tous, dont le lancement se fera à  la 114e Assemblée de l’UIP en mai 2006 à Nairobi. L’Union interparlementaire se réjouit de cette coopération car  l’action de l’UNESCO est cruciale pour la démocratie. En effet, sans l’éducation, il ne saurait y avoir ni citoyenneté  responsable, ni développement durable. Pour reprendre les termes de la Déclaration universelle sur la démocratie  adoptée par l’UIP et élaborée avec le concours de l’UNESCO : « Pour que l’état de démocratie soit durable, il faut un  climat et une culture démocratiques constamment nourris et enrichis par l’éducation et d’autres moyens culturels et  d’information ».
32.2 Cette citoyenneté responsable, pilier de la démocratie et aboutissement de siècles de maturation politique,  s’affirme désormais sur la scène politique internationale. Par delà les frontières, hommes et femmes veulent construire  un monde solidaire et en maîtriser le devenir. L’action commune de l’UNESCO et de l’Union interparlementaire doit  contribuer à renforcer la coopération internationale et à faire de cette aspiration des peuples une réalité.
32.3 Je ne voudrais pas clore mon intervention sans dire un mot d’une initiative née de l’Union interparlementaire  et qui m’est particulièrement chère, la création d’une Assemblée parlementaire de la Méditerranée. Cette Assemblée a  ses racines dans la Conférence parlementaire sur la sécurité et la coopération en Méditerranée, processus original qui ne  réunissait pas seulement que des pays méditerranéens, mais tous les pays méditerranéens. Parmi les thèmes dont  débattra cette Assemblée, il y a naturellement la sécurité et la coopération, mais aussi le dialogue des cultures et des  religions, le patrimoine, l’environnement, les échanges économiques, les droits de l’homme et les droits de la femme.  Cet espace de dialogue et de travail en commun contribuera, sans aucun doute au rapprochement des cultures et des  peuples de la Méditerranée. Je vous remercie.
(33) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Salles, representative of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, for your valuable and interesting  statement on cooperation among peoples and non-governmental organizations. I now call upon Ms Françoise Sauvage to  kindly take the floor to deliver her address.
34.1 Mme Sauvage (Présidente du Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, le  Comité de liaison ONG-UNESCO a, parmi ses missions, celle de développer des actions collectives entre les ONG  ayant des relations officielles avec l'UNESCO, en coopération étroite avec le Secrétariat de l'Organisation. Par là même,  il doit s'assurer de l'existence d'échanges d'information appropriés et veiller à ce que les intérêts et les opinions des  ONG soient reflétés par l'UNESCO. Durant le dernier biennium, les ONG ont ainsi pris une part active aux réalisations  dans les principaux domaines de compétence de l'Organisation. J’en citerai quelques exemples : l'élaboration du projet  de convention sur la protection de la diversité culturelle pour laquelle des ONG qualifiées ont été conviées aux réunions  intergouvemementales d'experts, la participation au sommet de Genève sur les nouvelles technologies de l'information  et de la communication, et la préparation de celui de Tunis ; en matière d'éducation, je soulignerai la participation  remarquée des ONG aux consultations collectives « Enseignement supérieur » et « Éducation pour tous ». Dans chacun  de ces domaines, les ONG ont fait des observations, soumises ensuite aux États membres, participé aux débats, défendu  des propositions dont certaines ont été retenues par les comités de rédaction. On peut regretter toutefois que cette  reconnaissance de la participation des ONG à la préparation des grandes conférences, à l'élaboration des plans d'action soit  parfois remise en question et que les ONG, de ce fait, éprouvent une certaine frustration devant les difficultés à se faire  entendre, en dépit de la très grande ouverture du Directeur général et de la plupart de ses collaborateurs les plus directs.
34.2 La globalisation, les contraintes financières auxquelles sont soumises les organisations internationales  montrent clairement que le rôle des ONG et, plus largement, de la société civile sera fondamental, au cours des années à  venir, dans la mise en œuvre des actions prioritaires de l'UNESCO. Le plan de décentralisation implique une meilleure  adéquation du rôle de la société civile aux niveaux régional, national ou local. Les États membres du Comité sur les  ONG du Conseil exécutif - à qui je rends hommage pour l'intérêt qu'ils portent à nos travaux - souhaitent une meilleure  coordination entre les commissions nationales, les bureaux hors Siège et les ONG. Nous sommes prêts à inviter nos  ONG à impliquer davantage leurs branches nationales dans l’exécution de ces programmes, à créer des réseaux avec les  ONG nationales pour plus d’efficacité et de synergie. Il faut évidemment des moyens pour y parvenir et le Comité de  liaison sera sensible à toutes propositions qui iraient dans le sens d’une coopération accrue sur le terrain qui soit  exigeante, et efficace. Pour cela des ressources financières sont nécessaires et il est souhaitable que le Programme de  participation soit plus ouvert aux projets défendus par les ONG.
34.3 Comme vous le savez, le rapport du Groupe de haut niveau sur la réforme de l’ONU consacre une large part  de ses travaux aux relations des Nations Unies et des institutions spécialisées avec la société civile. L’expérience de  l’UNESCO dans ce domaine, ses pratiques, ont été largement commentées comme offrant un exemple de partenariat  possible entre une organisation internationale et la société civile. J’appelle les États membres à poursuivre dans la voie  d’un réel partenariat avec les organisations non gouvernementales qui ont fait la preuve d’un véritable dévouement à la  cause internationale. Le travail qu’elles accomplissent déjà sur le terrain apporte un appui essentiel à l’action de  l’UNESCO. Je souhaite que les États membres en soient pleinement conscients et soutiennent les efforts conjoints pour  une coopération accrue. Le Comité de liaison a choisi de participer activement aux manifestations organisées pour le
60e anniversaire de l’UNESCO et a inscrit au programme de la Conférence internationale des ONG qui aura lieu à Paris  en décembre 2005 une table ronde consacrée au thème : ONG-UNESCO, 60 ans de coopération : Bilan et perspectives.
34.4 Je voudrais terminer en vous faisant part des regrets de deux organisations non gouvernementales très  importantes dans le domaine de l’éducation qui m’ont demandé de vous informer qu’elles ne participeraient finalement  pas au débat de cet après-midi et qu’elles viennent de quitter la salle. En effet, nos ONG ont été soumises à une  modification du programme qui nous a été communiquée au dernier moment et qui crée une fois de plus des difficultés  aux ONG souhaitant prendre la parole. C’est pourquoi je me suis permis de faire cette remarque à leur demande. Je  vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.   :א ٣٥ א א א א.א א א א א ،.א א א א ، א  .א
(35) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Ms Sauvage, for your call for cooperation with UNESCO. I hope that cooperation in the coming  biennia will be better than at present. I invite Ms Lourdes Arizpe, President of the International Social Science Council,  to be so good as to take the floor to deliver her address.
36.1 Ms Arizpe (International Social Science Council):  Mr President, members of the presidency, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as President of the  International Social Science Council (ISSC), I would like to thank you for the opportunity of addressing the General  Conference, and I would also like to express my pleasure at being at UNESCO once again after having served for many  years in this Organization. I would also like to support what the last speaker said in terms of enhancing the relationship  between UNESCO and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
36.2 Mr President, a historical view of world development would identify a first stage, stemming from the  expansion of Western institutions and models; a second inward stage, where the process of State building and the  attempts to strengthen national sovereignty led to framing action in national terms; and a third current period, where  global forces are involved with the diversity of societies and cultures in framing actions. In this current period,  sustainable development, traditionally focused on economic growth and environmental sustainability is now opening up  to questions of social sustainability. Indeed, evidence from many regions is showing that instead of a trickling-down of  economic benefits we are seeing upward percolation of the effects of global unsustainability.
36.3 Social science has not only been able to forecast such trends but also to provide important insights into their  multidimensional causes. In spite of this, social sustainability is only slowly beginning to be recognized. Last February,  at one of the sessions of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, held to review the five years of follow-up of  the 1995 Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, I asked why, in a world where economies are growing  and societies are collapsing, there was no mention at all of social risks alongside economic risks, environmental risks  and other kinds of risks.
36.4 The International Social Science Council, well aware of these trends, has been working for more than 10  years in these areas. In 1993 it created the International Human Dimensions Programme on Global Environmental  Change (IHDP), which is now co-sponsored by the International Council for Science (ICSU). This programme has been  very important in placing on the global agenda the anthropogenic causes of environmental problems. In 1995 ISSC  created the Comparative Research Programme on Poverty (CROP), now based at the University of Bergen in Norway.  After 10 years of experience in this field, the programme has noted that research on poverty has gone through four  stages, the latest of which focuses on the production of poverty. That is, on how action and actors, most of them  unintentionally, create conditions that produce poverty, and which continue to reproduce it. Also, in 1999, ISSC created  the Gender, Democratization and Globalization programme, which is showing through its projects what kind of  measures can help ensure that girls and women benefit equally in economic development and participate equally in  democratic advancement.
36.5 At present, a more proactive approach is needed in two traditional areas of social development – global social  change and ethnic conflict. Accordingly, the ISSC is launching two new programmes. One is the International Global  Social Change programme, whose workshops were to have coincided with the UNESCO forum on social research and  social policy before it was postponed. This new programme has five working groups, headed by Immanuel Wallerstein  and Elizabeth Jelin, dealing with, among others, ascendant and polarizing trends in globalization; global vulnerabilities  and social policy; emerging global players; culture and migration; migration; labour and human rights. ISSC is also  launching a new programme on research on ethnic conflict and policy to deal with the interface of ethnic conflict,  broadly defined, and policies to deal with such phenomena. Both these programmes, like all previous ones, are funded  from sources outside UNESCO, yet, as the previous speaker emphasized, the framework agreement with UNESCO  provides the infrastructure that allows ISSC to work effectively in its very broad spheres of influence.
36.6 ISSC has also continued its mutually beneficial participation in UNESCO’s activities including the  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and the work on the draft convention on the  protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. It is a matter of great satisfaction that the ISSC  membership drive begun in 2002 has led to the participation of new important actors in ISSC, including, most recently,  the social science councils of Germany, the United Kingdom, Norway and the Netherlands.
36.7 Mr President, the Executive Committee of ISSC welcomes the resolution presented at this General  Conference to conduct a review of the natural and social-science programmes at UNESCO. We affirm the great  importance of the natural and social sciences in meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and advancing  the overall agenda of UNESCO and the United Nations system. We applaud the recent improvements to UNESCO’s  overall operations, and we hope that the review will lead to more effective management and adequate resources for the  science programme, and for the social-science programmes in particular, at UNESCO.
36.8 ISSC also wishes to join in the recent joint statement made by the chairpersons of the main science  programmes in UNESCO in recognizing first and foremost that the role of science in society and governance has never  been as important as today. ISSC would like, however, to highlight social development as one of the areas that has to be  enhanced. Such development requires “A Fair Globalization”, as put forth in the report of the World Commission on the  Social Dimension of Globalization, in order to deal with increasing inequalities, enhance policy coherence at the  international level and pay greater attention to cross-border migration. Thank you very much.
37.1 The President:  Thank you, Ms Arizpe.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٣٧,٢ א א א א א ، א א א א א א.א ، א א א ، א א א א .
(38.1) Mr Baccouche (Arab Institute for Human Rights) (translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start by thanking UNESCO in the person of its Director- General for the decision to raise relations with the Arab Institute for Human Rights to the level of formal consultative  relations. The decision crowns years of diverse cooperation since the establishment of the Arab Institute for Human  Rights in 1989 as a regional non-governmental organization with UNESCO participating in its Board of Directors  alongside the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), the United Nations  Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). This cooperation, and cooperation  with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, were expanded on the occasion of the implementation of  ambitious programmes during the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education (1995-2004). This saw the study  of hundreds of textbooks for primary and secondary schools in most Arab countries, with regard to the agreement of their  contents with universal human rights, and the organization of many seminars and training sessions for non-governmental
403  organizations and senior officials in Arab ministries of education. In the final year of the aforementioned Decade, the  Arab Institute for Human Rights, together with UNESCO, organized an evaluation meeting for the Decade in Tunis. If  the Decade did not achieve all the objectives set for it, it did contribute, without a doubt, to raising awareness of the  importance of teaching human rights and human rights education, and the need to evaluate related programmes and books  from this perspective. The Arab Institute for Human Rights values the resolution of the United Nations General  Assembly concerning the global programme for human rights education, agreement having been reached on a first phase  in 2005-2007. The programme prolongs the efforts made during the above-mentioned Decade regarding human rights  education as a long-term strategic choice which is essential for the promotion of human rights in their universal, global  sense.
(38.2) The involvement of the Arab Institute in the network of human rights institutes working with UNESCO has  convinced us of the importance of cooperation between governmental and non-governmental organizations. Our  experience in the Arab region has shown us that such cooperation continues to be weak but is starting to produce some  results. The Institute is proud of its success in helping to establish channels for consultation and fruitful cooperation in  many Arab countries between government bodies and civil society organizations. This cooperation has taken the form of  partnership and cooperation agreements with some universities and ministries, including ministries of human rights,  justice, information, child and family affairs, and especially ministries of education in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia,  Lebanon, Jordan, Yemen, Qatar, Bahrain and so on. The Arab Institute’s experience and the results of the studies  concerning the specific features of civil society in many Arab countries have all increasingly confirmed that human rights  education, the spread of the culture of human rights and the promotion of human rights require cooperation between  governments and government institutions, on the one hand, and civil society organizations, on the other. Where this kind  of cooperation exists, we see improvements in the human rights record, and conversely, where human rights violations  are increasingly serious, conditions are not conducive to the cooperation that is in the interests of all. Lastly, the Arab  Institute, which executed all the projects on its agenda during the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, is  determined to take part in implementing the World Programme of Human Rights Education, 2005-2007, through the  network of organizations working with it, and the thousands of trainees completing its training courses and dozens of  trainers who are spread out throughout the Arab countries and are helping to strengthen the fabric of their societies and  deepen awareness of the importance of the role of civil society in furthering human rights and their universal authority  and overall conception. Obviously it cannot achieve all the results expected without the political will to further human  rights and the rights of peoples, nationally and internationally. Thank you for your attention. May peace be with you.   :א ٣٩ א א א א א אא א א א א ، א א א א א א א א ، א.א ،א א א א ،.
(39) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Baccouche, for your statement which focused on the importance of cooperation among  governmental and non-governmental organizations in the Arab States, and also on the role of some ministries and civil  society organizations in reinforcing human rights in the Arab region. Thank you. I now call upon Ms Simona Constanzo  Sow, Director of the Coordinating Committee for International Voluntary Service, to be so good as to take the floor to  deliver her address.
40.1 Ms Sow (Coordinating Committee for International Voluntary Service):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Your Excellencies, distinguished  delegates, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. If you have come to help me you are wasting your time, but if you  have come because you think that your liberation is linked to mine, let’s work together. This aboriginal proverb  explains well the spirit of international voluntary service as we understand it: an act of mutual solidarity during which  everyone receives and everyone gives.
40.2 International work camps have been used as a tool to foster intercultural learning, reconciliation and dialogue  among cultures ever since the shock of the First World War in the 1920s. The Coordinating Committee for International  Voluntary Service (CCIVS), which I have the honour to present here today, promoting international volunteering on  this premise since 1948, when it was created with the support of UNESCO. Today more than 250 member organizations  and branches all over the world send and receive tens of thousands of volunteers every year in voluntary projects  dealing with every aspect of community development. A voluntary service project is constructed around a “hard core”,  a manual or social work project, which will require the volunteers of different backgrounds to work and live together.  At the same time the volunteers will experience a new reality of everyday life that challenges their habits and  convictions as well as those of the local community.
40.3 The voluntary service project, as a microcosm of different people living and working together for some time,  is an excellent framework on which to base the future development and choices of the participants involved. CCIVS  reaches young people at the crucial moment when their engagement and energy can still be channelled “towards the  good cause”. We believe that voluntary service is a powerful tool to reach and change the minds of the volunteers  themselves as well as of the communities they work with. We all know that acquiring knowledge through a lived  experience is the most powerful way of learning. Value education and intercultural learning are therefore an important  priority of our organization. In fact, following the address of the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and
404  Herzegovina earlier today, I am pleased to say that several organizations of CCIVS have been involved in voluntary  service projects in that country as well as in other countries of South-Eastern Europe. As a matter of fact, a mechanism  for regional coordination has been created, fostering dialogue among youth organizations of countries of the former  Yugoslavia.
40.4 Through our projects we promote cultural diversity beyond the celebration of mere cultural consumerism.  Generally speaking, CCIVS works with the methods of non-formal education to reach people in the spaces not occupied  by schools, universities and families. In 2002 it was granted formal associative relations with UNESCO and we are  thankful for this recognition of our work. After some 60 years of mutual cooperation, we esteem that the time is ripe to  enter a new dimension of common endeavours. CCIVS needs UNESCO in order to benefit from the expert input and  notoriety of the Organization, which sheds light on essential themes. At the same time we dare to believe that UNESCO  needs CCIVS as a messenger spreading the word into local communities, transforming intellectual knowledge into lived  experience through the translation of words into deeds.
40.5 CCIVS action is transversal, touching upon almost all UNESCO’s areas of priority. Indeed, tomorrow a  project will begin in Uganda with the support of the Culture Sector on the use of theatre in HIV/AIDS prevention and  care. The list is too long to continue, but what I would like to underline is that the action of CCIVS is complementary to  UNESCO’s reflection, and that we have not yet reached the full potential of our partnership. The infrastructure of grass- roots organizations all over the world exists and is growing – thousands of potential volunteers are ready to engage  themselves in meaningful tasks. We hope to find open ears at UNESCO to deepen and formalize our collaboration  beyond what is already happening.
40.6 Mr President, let me conclude by congratulating UNESCO for the open and constructive relationship it  maintains with civil society. It is through the concrete action of NGOs on the ground that UNESCO’s message reaches  the remotest villages on the globe and it is the grassroots experience that validates and verifies the truth of the message  delivered. We would like to thank you for 57 years of fruitful cooperation and we are at your disposal to continue on  this path together. Thank you very much.  Mr Musa Hassan (Oman) resumes the Chair.   :א ٤١ א א א א ، ، ،.א א א ، א א  .א
(42.1) Mr Al-Ghunaim (Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States) (translation from the Arabic):  Mr President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, greetings in the name of God. Peace and the  mercy and blessings of God be upon you all. I should like to begin my remarks by expressing, on my own behalf and on  behalf of my colleagues at the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States (ABEGS), my compliments on your election  as President of this session of the General Conference, which bespeaks the members’ high degree of confidence in your  capacity. I should also like to record my profound esteem for the pioneering work done by UNESCO through its constant  striving, sincerely and earnestly, under difficult conditions, to promote and stimulate efforts aimed at realizing better  education and deeper mutual understanding in the hope of leading humanity towards peace and prosperity.
(42.2) Ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental question, one of pressing importance and clear priority, that the  General Conference must ask itself, inasmuch as the humanity of mankind represents the essence of its task, the goal of  its endeavours and the axis of its efforts. That question is as follows: how are we to address the accelerating deterioration  and regression that our world is experiencing in the matter of the eternal values that have shaped human civilization and  have always been the driving force for its accomplishment and development? What has brought us to this acute process  of negative change? Firmly established values that have enabled humankind to advance and progress throughout its  history have broken down at an ever-accelerating pace in the minds and behaviour of young people, and in the relations  between States and their ways of dealing with one another. How is it that the culture of violence and the rejection of  others have become calls to action and behaviour leading to the dissolution of families and the regression of international  mutual understanding? How is it that policies of force, the pursuit of self-interest and the adoption of double standards in  international relations have become prominent features of our present life, spreading and being adopted at an accelerating  pace? How is it that these trends hostile to human progress and civilization have disrupted the cohesiveness and unity of  societies and the noble innate values that are part of the natural endowment of human beings, the highest of all beings,  infiltrating peoples’ minds and wills? As a result, patterns of behaviour that were once restricted to eccentric fringe  groups have turned into a phenomenon that is imposing its existence upon the world at large.
(42.3) The voice of the All-Merciful is the same in all languages and in all religions. It assures us that humanity  comprises men and women, peoples and tribes that have been created that they might learn to know about one another  without compulsion, and that they might live on earth in peace, with love in their hearts, engage in dialogue when they  disagree, with wisdom and virtuous exhortation, preferring forgiveness to vengeance, and preferring means of  cooperation to compulsion. God has called them to deal with each other with the means and resources that He has given  them in their environments as free benefits from Himself, which are not to be despoiled and squandered. No tree shall be  wantonly cut down, no water wasted, even from a running stream, no animal overworked and no bird harmed, for God  will reward him who preserves the cleanliness of His environment and removes harm from the road. He has made justice  the balance of heaven and earth, and has given us parables in all our scriptures to take warning from the fate of tyrants  who were tempted by their power and trampled upon human dignity and human rights, to tell us that peace and living  together are the way and true road of life. It is said that we live in a new world that makes its own values, and that the  accelerating pace of change today is the rhythm of the age, with information and communication technologies combining  to step up the rate at which human society is evolving and to extend the process and scope of change to every part of the  globe. Our world is said to have become the world of a small village, that all barriers have come down, and that we must  be prepared for change to propagate rapidly and have a powerful impact; we are told that no one can live outside the  process or in isolation from it. Undoubtedly, the interconnected nature of today’s world should be regarded as a great  opportunity, since it gives humanity a greater ability to draw closer together, build bridges of trust and cooperation, and  forge a common destiny befitting human dignity. Today, in the midst of the suffering afflicting our world, we cast our  minds back to an earlier experience that saw the world go through successive wars, in the course of which the blood of  millions of human beings was shed and treasure and effort beyond calculation were expended, treasure and effort that  might have been used for the benefit of humanity instead. A number of the world’s wise men and leaders joined forces to  investigate the problem, identify its roots, and discover ways of preventing it from happening again. They met in London  in 1945, and ultimately coined the celebrated words, “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that  the defences of peace must be constructed.” The States of the world met together, as you know, to establish the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in November 1945, with the intent that it should concern itself  with building, enriching and propagating positive values throughout human civilization in order to strengthen the bonds  of mutual cooperation among nations, ensure complete respect for justice and law, and safeguard the fundamental rights  and freedoms of all people without discrimination, that the world might recover its ability to correct its course and steer  towards peace and constructive effort, rather than violence and wars. All the world’s States responded favourably to that  call: the Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization was founded in 1970, and the Islamic Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization in 1982. Our Organization and our General Conference are called upon today to lead  an analogous movement, one that will consider how our world can rid itself of regressive factors and launch once again in  people’s minds the spirit of mutual sympathy, solidarity and belief in noble values; an active movement that will take the  ongoing efforts and programmes serving that goal and add to them a re-examination, from that standpoint, of educational  strategies, policies and programmes, making constructive use of all available frameworks for cooperation and common  action with other organizations that are concerned with human development, under the watchword, “Eternal truth and a  rational contemporary world.” The goal must be to strike a balance between the values that are deeply rooted in our  heritage and the demands of a changing world, in a way that will respond, in full awareness and consciousness, to the  needs of successive generations. In that way, we shall not lose our identity or our fundamental values, and we shall not be  confined within a rigid mould that will prevent our peoples from interacting rationally with today’s world and its  demands. It is essential to reread history and the story of civilization for today’s generations, or the causative factors  involved in the rise and fall of nations, to ensure that that knowledge is firmly implanted in their minds while they are  children, so that they will have it when they become adults. The culture of nations rises, is creative and expands when it  is successful in educating the leaders and decision-makers of the future in justice, love, tolerance and generosity, when it  opens their eyes to ways of seeing, thinking and experimenting, believing that violence begets violence, and when it  offers them examples of nations that soon fell when they were ruled by injustice and relied in their dealings with others  on the delusion of force and coercion.
(42.4) In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm my confidence in others: if we work together to support one another, we  cannot but be successful, and the wave of cultural regression on the human side will be doomed to failure, provided we  can inculcate a will to good in human minds. I am heartened by the fact that our discussion of education is indicative of a  mentality that is responsive to good and nobility, whereas waves of disintegration are indicative of desires and cravings,  and those are a mere transient froth that does not benefit humanity and will not long abide on earth. Ladies and gentlemen,  I thank you for your attention. I offer you, on behalf of ABEGS, heartfelt greetings and the assurance that we shall  always welcome cooperation with you. Behind every purpose, God is our guide to the way.   :א ٤٣,١ א א א א ، א.א، א א א אא א ، א א.א א א א ، א א  .א
(43.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Doctor Mazrouq, for your address calling for tolerance and peace. I commend the cooperation  between the Arab Bureau of Education for the Gulf States and UNESCO in many fields, including of course education. I  now give the floor to Ms Jacqueline Rougé, the permanent representative of the World Conference of Religions for Peace.  (The President continues in French)
43.2 Vous avez la parole, Madame.
44.1 Mme Rougé (Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, les religions ont  une contribution spécifique à apporter à la construction de la paix. Beaucoup l’ignorent. Certains en doutent. Mais de  plus en plus, tous ceux qui s’intéressent sérieusement à ce domaine vital le reconnaissent. Dans les régions en proie à  des conflits, des responsables religieux font appel à des notions telles que le respect d’autrui et la solidarité entre tous  les humains pour tenter d’apaiser la violence. Là où sévissent l’exclusion, la faim, la misère, des maladies comme le  Sida, les communautés religieuses sont au premier rang de ceux qui portent secours aux victimes. Quand les institutions  étatiques se sont effondrées, les religions sont souvent les seules structures qui subsistent et servent de relais aux  agences d’aide internationales. À notre époque où la paix du monde et la survie même de l’humanité sont menacées par  le déferlement du matérialisme consumériste et d’un individualisme sans frein, les religions rappellent utilement que les  forces résidant dans la matière ne sont pas les seules à prendre en compte et qu’une existence vraiment humaine ne se  limite pas à la course à la richesse et au plaisir.
44.2 La Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix exhorte dans le monde entier les responsables religieux et  les simples croyants à faire abstraction de ce qui peut les séparer et les dresser les uns contre autres. Elle les encourage à  chercher un consensus sur ce qui est à faire. Elle les incite ensuite à y travailler ensemble. C’est la meilleure manière de  lutter contre le risque d’aggravation des conflits pour des motifs religieux. En effet, les religions peuvent contribuer à  trouver des solutions pacifiques. Notre action s’appuie sur plus de cinquante conseils interreligieux, en Afrique, en Asie,  en Europe et en Amérique latine, qui ne cessent de se développer, notamment dans les pays comme l’Iraq où les régions  comme l’Afrique des Grands Lacs où se produisent des affrontements violents. Ces conseils sont le meilleur moyen de  réunir des responsables religieux de croyances différentes capables de mobiliser le potentiel sous-employé de leurs  communautés à tous les niveaux. Nous agissons pour la transformation des conflits, pour l’aide aux enfants, en  particulier ceux qui sont victimes du Sida, pour la mobilisation et la valorisation du rôle des femmes. Nos  préoccupations rejoignent sur bien des points celles de l’UNESCO, qu’il s’agisse de sciences humaines, d’éducation à  la paix ou de dialogue des cultures, dans l’esprit des recommandations du Congrès d’Abuja de décembre 2003. Le but  est bien, pour nous comme pour vous, d’« élever dans l’esprit des hommes les défenses de la paix ». Je suis heureuse  d’être ici le porte-parole de la Conférence mondiale des religions pour la paix et de dire combien cette organisation est  satisfaite des rapports étroits qu’elle entretient avec le Secrétariat de l’UNESCO, dans un esprit de confiance mutuelle.  Elle souhaite renforcer encore ce partenariat, profitable aux deux parties. Je tenais à faire état devant la Conférence  générale de cet exemple de participation de tout un secteur de la société civile aux responsabilités des institutions  internationales. Je me réjouis d’avoir pu le faire, et je vous remercie de votre attention.   :א ٤٥,١ ، ،.א א אא א א.א א א א א א א ،א ،.א  .א
(45.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Madam. I agree that all religions call for peace, so congratulations to you on your  active role in this field. I now give the floor to Ms Martine Lévy, Secretary-General of the World Association of Girl  Guides and Girl Scouts. You have the floor, Madam.  (The President continues in English)
45.2 You have the floor, Madam.
46.1 Mme Lévy (Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, l’Association  mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses (AMGE) est la plus grande organisation de jeunes filles du monde créée pour les  jeunes filles, par les jeunes filles et les jeunes femmes ; elle compte certes plus de dix millions de filles et de jeunes  femmes membres ; mais le nombre d’autres jeunes filles qui bénéficient de l’éducation non formelle prodiguée par les  responsables de ses organisations membres dans 145 pays du monde est incalculable. Mettre en lumière l’importance de  la personne individuelle mais aussi de la force collective que représentent dix millions de filles, donner aux filles une  voix dans les domaines qui les touchent, offrir à ces filles des chances de se faire entendre, prendre position et  s’exprimer au nom des filles, faire refléter le rayonnement mondial de l’Association ont amené les dirigeantes de  l’Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses à imaginer un nouveau slogan : « L’AMGE est la voix mondiale  des filles et des jeunes femmes ». Et c’est ce que je ressens lorsque je m’exprime ici, depuis plusieurs années, en séance  plénière de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO, au nom de l’AMGE. Et c’est ce que nous ressentons aussi lorsque  nous parlons dans les commissions programmatiques mixtes du Comité de liaison ONG/UNESCO, au nom de l’AMGE.
46.2 Défendre un point de vue en sachant que des millions et des millions de jeunes filles et de jeunes femmes  sont concernées est tout à fait exceptionnel et enthousiasmant et c’est aussi ce qu’ont dû ressentir depuis des dizaines  d’années les représentantes de l’AMGE à l’UNESCO. Car si l’UNESCO fête cette année, avec les Nations Unies, son
60e anniversaire, nous pouvons dire que l’Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses fête, elle, son 60e
408  anniversaire de coopération avec les Nations Unies. Le Scoutisme féminin mondial avait 37 ou 38 ans lorsque l’AMGE  a commencé à entretenir des rapports avec l’UNESCO ; c’est dire s’il était mature, s’il avait déjà une grande expérience  et connaissait bien les besoins des filles et des jeunes femmes dans le monde dans les domaines de compétence de  l’UNESCO, en particulier l’éducation. Les organisations membres de l’AMGE constituent une ressource précieuse pour  l’UNESCO car elles ont accès aux filles et aux jeunes femmes à un niveau très local. Comment l’UNESCO peut-elle  être, à son tour, une ressource précieuse pour les organisations membres ? Depuis quelques années, l’idée est apparue  que la représentation de l’Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses par une équipe au Siège de l’Organisation  à Paris était intéressante mais qu’en fait cette représentation ne serait que la partie émergente d’un immense iceberg  enfoui dans les glaces… ou plutôt dans les campagnes des pays en développement ; je veux dire par là que le travail  doit se faire au niveau local ou national, là où les jeunes files en ont besoin. Le dialogue entre les ONG et l’UNESCO  au Siège est important mais il serait au moins aussi important de développer le dialogue entre les commissions  nationales de chacun des pays et les ONG de ces pays. L’AMGE a des organisations membres dans la plupart des pays  et souhaite que les commissions nationales représentées ici aujourd’hui développent leurs rapports avec celles-ci.  L’Association mondiale des guides et des éclaireuses a tenu en juin dernier sa conférence mondiale pendant laquelle le  sujet des rapports avec les commissions nationales de l’UNESCO dans les divers pays a été évoqué. Certaines  associations de l’AMGE ont fait part des difficultés qu’elles rencontrent lorsqu’elles souhaitent dialoguer avec la  commission nationale de leur pays. Je me permets de faire appel aux commissions nationales ici représentées pour que  le dialogue puisse s’établir dans chacun des pays : un tel dialogue serait évidemment favorable à l’organisation membre  de l’AMGE mais il serait également favorable aux autorités du pays concerné compte tenu de l’importance, dans  chaque pays, de la politique vis-à-vis des filles et des jeunes femmes, à laquelle l’organisation membre de l’AMGE est  susceptible d’apporter beaucoup. Pour terminer je voudrais me féliciter de la coopération qui existe depuis de  nombreuses années entre l’UNESCO et l’Association mondiale au nom de laquelle j’ai l’honneur de parler et je  souhaite que se développe une coopération similaire dans chacun des États de l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.    :א ٤٧,١ א א א ،.א א א א א א א  .א
(47.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you for your considerable, exemplary work in mobilizing girls in the service of humanity. I now give  the floor to Mr Guy de Thé, President of the European Academy of Arts, Sciences and Humanities.  (The President continues in English)
47.2 You have the floor, Sir.
48. M. de Thé (Académie européenne des sciences, des arts et des lettres) :   Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs,  tout le monde s’accorde à souligner la nécessité vitale pour les pays à faibles revenus, mais aussi pour les pays riches,  d’accroître substantiellement leurs ressources en énergie car celles-ci sont à la base de tout progrès, de toute stabilité et  de tout développement durable. Pour les pays en développement en particulier, l’accès aux ressources énergétiques  représente une condition préalable à tout développement durable de la santé, de l’éducation, de l’agriculture, des  communications et de l’industrialisation, en un mot au développement social. On sait que les ressources fossiles (pétrole  et charbon) s’épuisent rapidement alors que la demande explose en Asie ; aussi le développement des énergies  renouvelables est-il aujourd’hui une priorité absolue pour la communauté internationale. L’UNESCO joue dans ce  domaine un rôle de précurseur depuis de nombreuses années. Récemment encore, l’Organisation, lors de la Conférence  de Bonn, a repris le projet de créer un conseil d’experts qui serait au service des pays en développement pour les aider à  déterminer les priorités de leur action relative aux énergies renouvelables. Ce même conseil pourrait établir une  coordination des aides internationales dans ce domaine. Une deuxième proposition a été le développement, sous l’égide  de l’UNESCO, d’une « Université sans murs », ouverte sur les énergies renouvelables. L’Académie européenne des  sciences, des arts et des lettres qui, depuis sa naissance, est un partenaire de l’UNESCO, a tenu en juin 2005 une  réunion sur les énergies renouvelables et a soutenu très fortement le rôle que joue l’UNESCO dans la promotion des  sources d’énergies les mieux adaptées aux zones rurales des pays africains, zones où vivent les deux tiers de la  population de l’Afrique intertropicale. L’Académie européenne reste plus que jamais au service de l’UNESCO. Elle  serait prête à participer aux activités que l’Organisation mettrait en place pour la promotion de ces énergies  renouvelables et souhaite très vivement un renforcement effectif dans ce domaine. Je vous remercie.    :א ٤٩ א.،א א א ، א א א א.א א א א ،  .א
(49) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Sir. You bring together science, the arts and the humanities, and this is really  admirable work. I give the floor now to Mr Alexandre Blokh, representative of International PEN.
50.1 Mr Blokh (International PEN):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, the International Secretary of International PEN, Madame  Joanne Leedom-Ackerman, who is unfortunately away in Washington, has asked me to convey to you the following:  International PEN is the only world association of writers, with 141 centres in 99 countries. It welcomes the opportunity  to address the gathering at the 33rd session of the General Conference of UNESCO.
50.2 Through its programmes International PEN advances intellectual cooperation and friendship among writers  across the globe. Representing approximately 15,000 writers in countries and languages on every continent,  International PEN is a non-political, non-governmental organization with formal consultative status at UNESCO and  Category II status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. PEN works with the support of  UNESCO and in cooperation with the goals of UNESCO. Through its centres around the world, members of  International PEN hold literary seminars, organize festivals and congresses and work in schools, promoting literature  and literacy and defending writers who find themselves persecuted because of their writing. International PEN develops  new centres in countries as a way of advancing a civil and free society. Members work cooperatively in multilateral and  bilateral activities, including joint programmes in Europe, Asia, North and South America and, of course, Africa. In the  past year International PEN has particularly focused on work with its 19 centres in Africa, holding a conference in  Ghana in preparation for a worldwide Pan-African Congress in 2007, where writers from across Africa and the globe  will gather in Dakar to focus on African literature and global issues. International PEN has engaged in initiatives in the  Arab world this year, holding a conference and working to develop new centres in the Middle East. The Asian centres  of PEN have worked together in an Asia Pacific network, holding a conference of writers throughout Asia. Centres in  the Americas have held literary symposiums, readings and workshops for writers from around the globe.
50.3 International PEN also works through standing committees. The Writers in Prison Committee advocates on  behalf of persecuted writers and promotes free and independent media. Through its Translation and Linguistic Rights  Committee, International PEN supports the world's linguistic and cultural differences and promotes the translation of  contemporary literature. PEN's Women's Committee addresses the special needs of women writers and particularly  supports women's writing, publishing and translation in countries where opportunities for women are limited. Through  its Peace Committee, PEN addresses issues of literature in the promotion of peace. International PEN's Exile Network  finds placement opportunities for exiled, immigrant and refugee writers in universities, colleges and learning centres  around the world. Through its magazine International PEN promotes the literature of the world.
50.4 When Catherine Amy Dawson Scott and John Galsworthy founded International PEN in 1921, they founded  the first post-national literary society. Centres of PEN formed rapidly across Europe and the Americas, then in Asia and  Africa. In the last decade and a half, as the space for debate and discussion has opened in the countries of Eastern  Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia, PEN has again rapidly grown, adding centres and members around the globe  to advance its mission of promoting literature, defending free expression and creating a global community of writers.  Literature continues to provide an important door into ideas and cultures, and International PEN strives to keep those  doors open around the world. It is very grateful to UNESCO for its cooperation. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٥١,١ א٠٠٠١٥٩٩.א، א א א ،. א א.א א א א א א ، ، .א א٧٣א א ، א א ، א א  .א
(51.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Sir. Fifteen thousand writers in 99 States, that means that you are bringing together people of  thought and culture from most of the countries of the world. I congratulate you on your excellent work to protect  intellectuals. Ladies, gentlemen, we have now reached the end of the general policy debate of the 33rd session of the  General Conference. However, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Japan has asked to exercise its  right to reply, so I give the floor to the representative of Japan.  (The President continues in English)
51.2 You have the floor, your Excellency.
52.1 Mr Sato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, allow me to thank you for giving me this special  opportunity to reply to the statement of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea on the history education issue.
52.2 In its statement, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea insists that history textbooks which it asserts  beautify the past history of aggression are included in our curricula for the younger generations in Japan. I have to say  that this is incorrect. Eight junior high school history textbooks were approved by the Government of Japan this year.
410  None of those textbooks, however, ever glorify Japan’s history of colonial rule and aggression. The courses of study  prescribed by the Government of Japan stipulate that history education in Japan shall be aimed at ensuring students’  understanding of the process leading to the war, while paying attention to the relationships between Asian countries and  Japan, and to the fact that the past war caused suffering among humankind at large. All those textbooks were approved  in accordance with the textbook approval standard, which stipulates that textbooks must satisfy those requirements for  the four set courses of study. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٥٣,١ א א א.אא ، א ،.
(53.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  The delegate of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has asked for the floor. I shall give it to him for  one minute, in line with the Rules of Procedure.  (The President continues in English)
54.1 Mr Kim (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea):  Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. As is well known to all of you, distinguished delegates, on
5 April 2005, the Ministry of Education of Japan approved distorted history textbooks, despite strong protest and  opposition from the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and other Asian countries. These distorted textbooks  beautify and embellish the brutal colonial rule over Korea, which included, to give just a few examples, forcing 200,000  Korean women into sexual slavery for the Imperial Japanese troops, drafting 8.4 million Koreans into the shambles of  war and slave labour, and plundering and destroying hundreds of thousands of cultural properties and historical relics.  The textbooks falsify these truths by describing that war of aggression, which brought unspeakable pain to the Asian  people, as a war of self-defence, and even as a war of liberation. The textbooks even claim that Dokdo Islet, the  sovereign territory of the Korean Nation, is simply part of Japanese territory. Such actions on the part of Japan are an  insult to the entire Korean people – North, South and abroad – who suffered so much from the brutal colonial rule and  wartime atrocities. This only serves the purpose of further instilling wars in the minds of young Japanese. History can  never be changed by distortion, nor be erased by an attempt to cover it up. Asian nations will never, ever forget the  criminal history of Japan, and will never tolerate such an attempt. The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic  of Korea strongly urges Japan to learn from the example of other countries, such as Germany, withdraw its adoption of  distorted textbooks, and offer an honest apology and compensation to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and  other Asian countries. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٥٥ א א א ، א ، א א.א ،.
(55) The President (translation from the Arabic):  The delegate of Japan has asked for the floor, and I will give it to him for one minute as well. I will then close  the discussion on this point. Please go ahead, Mr Ambassador.
56. Mr Sato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor again. First of all, I would like to re-confirm that the  Japanese education system is, needless to say, in full compliance with UNESCO’s Constitution and other international  human rights instruments. And I would like to state that we have different views on the issues referred to by the  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Having said that, I believe this is not the right place to discuss this. Thank you  very much.   :א ٥٧ א.א א ،.אא ، א ، א א، א א א א א.אא א א א ، א א ، .א ، ، א א אא.א ، א ، א א א .א  .א
(55) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Your comments will be noted in the records of the 33rd session of the General Conference. So,  distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, with that we have concluded the general policy debate of this, the 33rd  session of the General Conference. During it, we had the honour of receiving eight heads of state and government, and  held 11 meetings of fruitful debate, during which the statements of 173 Member States were delivered. We also listened  to two observers, two intergovernmental organizations and 16 non-governmental organizations. This is a great
411  achievement. I thank you very much for your attention and cooperation and for always keeping to the time limit, which  meant that we have been able to end our meetings without resorting to additional night meetings. I would like once more  to express my gratitude to you.  Announcements  Annonces  Anuncios  Информационные сообщения    通 告   :א ٥٨ א א א א  .א
(58) The President (translation from the Arabic):  I would like to give the floor to the Secretariat to tell us about what will be happening tomorrow morning.
59. The Assistant Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. This is just to inform the General Conference that, after the end of this general  policy debate, the reply by the Director-General will be presented here in Room I at 10 o’clock tomorrow, followed by  the examination of item 11.1 “Appointment of the Director-General”, which will be held here in Room I in private  meeting. Thank you.   :א ٦٠ א א א א א ،  .א.א
(60) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, and I now bring down the gavel to indicate that we can go to the receptions. The  meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18 h.35   Se levanta la sesión a las 18.35  Заседание закрывается в 18.35  א ٦,٣٥א   会议于 18 时 35 分结束