(1.1) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, bonjour et bienvenue à tous en cette belle matinée. Comme je l’ai déjà dit  à d’autres occasions, le beau temps donne un formidable élan à nos travaux. Avant de donner la parole à Mme Campbell,  ambassadrice de Jamaïque, voici la pensée du jour qui fait honneur aux femmes : « Rien au monde n’égale la douce  étreinte d’une mère, aucune fleur la beauté de ses lèvres ».
(1.2) Mesdames et Messieurs, comme vous le savez, nous devons examiner ce matin deux rapports. Nous  commencerons par les conclusions du Comité des candidatures puis passerons à la présentation du rapport de la  Commission V. J’invite donc Mme Campbell à prendre la parole pour nous soumettre le rapport du Comité des  candidatures.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
1.3 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
2.1 Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report you have before you, document 33 C/75, reflects the final  proposals of the Nominations Committee concerning the appointment of an External Auditor and the composition of  committees, commissions and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference. This follows the results of the  elections held on Tuesday, 18 October in Room IV.
2.2 However, I should like to draw your attention to the composition of the Intergovernmental Council of the  International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC). You may wish to recall that at the  announcement of the results of the vote under Group V (a), Angola and Burkina Faso were declared elected. As Angola  has already been an elected member of this Council since the 32nd session of the General Conference and will remain  so until its 34th session, the actual members elected at this session of the General Conference are Burkina Faso and  Equatorial Guinea, that is to say the remaining two candidates for the two vacancies. Accordingly, document 33 C/75  reflects this change.
2.3 Mr President, once this report has been adopted by the plenary, I shall – if you will allow me – make some  comments on the functioning of this Committee. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٣ ، ؟.א א  .א
(3) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci madame. Voulez-vous poursuivre ? Vous avez la parole.
4.1 Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):  As you like, Mr President, if you think nobody will have any comments, I will continue. OK? Then I’ll  continue. Colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for your intense and productive cooperation over the last  three weeks in support of the work of the Nominations Committee. This has enabled the Committee to carry out its  tasks in a collegial and effective manner – namely, to organize the election of Members of the Executive Board for the  period 2005-2009, in accordance with item 12.1 of the agenda, and subsequently, to organize and conduct the elections  of an External Auditor and of the various subsidiary organs of the General Conference, pursuant to items 12.2 to 12.16  of the approved agenda.
4.2 While it is true that any electoral process is in itself complex because of the framework of rules within which  it takes place, I feel bound to say that Member States as a whole have displayed great civic concern, reflected in their
465  wholehearted participation in that process, while respecting the mandate given to the Nominations Committee under  Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. In this regard I would like to underline both the very high  turnout for all the elections as well as the cooperative spirit among electoral groups in reaching agreement on  submissions of numbers of candidates equal to the number of seats to be filled.
4.3 I will start first with a brief report of the work carried out by the Nominations Committee in the course of its  eight meetings spread across the duration of the 33rd session of the General Conference. The first task of the Committee,  which coincided with the start of the 33rd session of the General Conference, consisted of electing the President of the  General Conference, its Vice-Presidents and the Chairpersons of the Programme Commissions, the Administrative  Commission and the Committees, in compliance with the recommendations adopted by the Executive Board in
171 EX/Decision 33 and 172 EX/Decision 30.
4.4 The Committee then undertook to elect, in the shortest time possible, the Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteurs  who should form the bureaux of the various commissions. This task proved to be somewhat tedious and time- consuming as certain electoral groups did not finalize their respective consultations and were not in a position to  propose their candidates for the posts of Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteurs. In this connection, to avoid certain hasty  electoral decisions, we – the representatives of the Member States – should prepare weeks or months in advance, with  the corresponding electoral groups, the various nominations, in keeping with the statutory requirement of geographical  balance. In this way, once the decisions of the various electoral groups concerning the structure of the bureaux had been  communicated to the Secretary of the General Conference, precise information on the composition of the bureaux of the  commissions and committees would be available, thereby facilitating the work of all the committees and commissions  concerned. I also take this opportunity to draw attention to certain reticence among Member States to assume the  function of a rapporteur of a commission. It appears that this duty carries a reputation of being time-consuming and  constrictive. In this regard I should like to suggest that in the future the Secretariat of the General Conference foresees a  way of briefing Member States, prior to the beginning of the session of the General Conference, on the responsibilities  and duties attached to functions of members of the bureaux of commissions and committees, with a view to dispelling  any possible misinterpretation and apprehension.
4.5 As everyone will recall, the Committee organized the elections of Members of the Executive Board. These  elections were carried out successfully in conformity with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference governing  these elections. Member States once again displayed enthusiasm and support, by participating actively in the various  stages of the process, which led to the vote held on 14 October 2005. The participation of 179 Member States in this  electoral process, out of 183 Member States entitled to vote at this session of the General Conference, shows the high  interest of our countries in the governing bodies of the Organization.
4.6 I will now turn to the elections of an External Auditor, inscribed on the agenda of the General Conference  under item 12.4, and elections of members of commissions, committees and other subsidiary organs of the General  Conference. You will recall that these elections, carried out by two separate secret ballots, took place during the seventh  meeting of the Nominations Committee on Tuesday 18 October 2005 at 10 a.m. in Room IV. The results of these  elections were announced that same day, at 4 p.m. in Room IV. The elections were carried out in conformity with the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and as I mentioned above, with a considerable turnout. Please note that,  out of 183 Member States entitled to vote, 154 Member States cast votes in the election of an External Auditor, and
168 Member States took part in the elections of members of the various subsidiary organs of the General Conference.
4.7 While both elections took place on the same day they, followed a somewhat different preparatory process.  Therefore allow me to address first the issue of the election of an External Auditor. By now, all Member States are  aware of the debate on the selection process for a candidate for this crucial post. A number of Member States felt that  the task of electing an External Auditor required a certain degree of technical expertise. You will also recall that at the  request of Member States the Secretariat produced, in addition to the habitual documents containing the full  applications of the candidates, a summary table of these submissions with a view to assisting Member States in the  decision-making process. Furthermore, the five candidates for the post of External Auditor were invited to make  presentations to the Administrative Commission. This preparatory exercise prompted the need for the establishment of  clear guidelines for the election of an External Auditor. Having been part of and witness to these discussions, allow me,  Mr President, to put forward a proposal for a way forward in this regard. I would like to suggest that the Executive  Board undertake to study this matter in detail, with a view to setting up a procedure – perhaps somewhat similar to that  governing the election of the Director-General – which would allow the educated and competent examination by the  Executive Board of the candidatures, with a view to arriving at a recommendation to be submitted to the General  Conference for adoption.
4.8 I would like to highlight the interest in the electoral process in all elections. With regard to the elections of  members of the commissions, committees and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference, Member States  demonstrated a high degree of civic conscience and concern for the democratic UNESCO governance process. Owing  to the intensive and fruitful consultations between the electoral groups, only 14 secret ballots were held, out of a  possible total of 74. This is a record, and illustrates the growing tendency of Member States to reach agreement in
466  advance within the electoral groups, so as to ensure that the number of candidates matches the number of posts to be  filled. It is nevertheless regretful that not enough candidatures were received for two organs: the Conciliation and Good  Offices Commission Responsible for Seeking the Settlement of any Disputes which may arise between States Parties to  the Convention against Discrimination in Education; and the Executive Committee of the International Campaign for  the Establishment of the Nubia Museum in Aswan and the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Cairo.
4.9 I should also record that, following the adoption by the General Conference at its 32nd session of
32 C/Resolution 78 increasing the number of members of the Legal Committee to 24, the Nominations Committee  approved the following geographical distribution of these seats as follows: Group I – 5 seats, Group II – 3 seats,  Group III – 5 seats, Group IV – 4 seats; Group V (a) – 3 seats; Group V (b) – 4 seats. The 24 members proposed to the  General Conference for election in document 33 C/75 follow this distribution.
4.10 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank you personally for your continuous support and  genuine interest in the work of our Committee and the electoral process. I should also thank Ms Zeljana Zovko,  Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Bosnia and Herzegovina to UNESCO and Vice-President of the General  Conference, for her capable chairing of the elections of the Executive Board, and for ensuring that these elections took  place in a harmonious manner. I take this opportunity to also express gratitude to the tellers: Ms Julie Mebes  (Netherlands), Ms Martina Václavíková (Czech Republic), Mr Jorge Patino (Panama), Ms Anne Siwicki (Australia),  Ms Rasoanaivo Ravaomalala (Madagascar) and Ms Souad El Idrissi El Hassani (Morocco), who helped us with the  election of Members of the Executive Board. For the elections of an External Auditor, we had the able assistance of  Ms Nermine Goussous (Jordan) and Mr Haldane Chase (Bahamas). For the elections of the members of the subsidiary  organs, we were assisted by Ms Brigitte Trinkel (Austria), Mr Victor Fedorinov (Russian Federation), Ms Rosa Ester  Moreira de Lemoine (El Salvador), Mr Azamat Absalikov (Kazakhstan), Mr Macoumba Sonko (Senegal) and  Mr Abdelhafiz Elawad (Sudan). I would like to thank them all for their time and effort in the electoral process. Let me  also extend thanks to the Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteur of the Nominations Committee, and to the members of the  UNESCO Secretariat for their assistance. My thanks also go to the interpreters, technical and support staff and to the  Secretariat of the General Conference. Finally let me express my satisfaction to the Secretariat of the Nominations  Committee, its Secretary Ms Magda Landry and her colleagues: Mr Jaco du Toit, Ms Maria del Mar Marcos-Camier,  Ms Rosanna Karam and Mr Michee Detinho. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٥,١ ،.א א ، ، א א א א.א א ،.אא א א א א א א א א.א א א א א א א א א.א א א. א א א א.א א א ، א א ، א ،א א א א א א א א א .א א.א א א א א א א ،א א ،.א ، א א א א א.. א.א  .א
(5.1) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci beaucoup. Je m’associe à vous pour remercier tous ceux qui ont collaboré avec vous, Mme Campbell,  ambassadrice de Jamaïque et présidente du Comité des candidatures. La maîtrise et la sagesse dont vous avez fait preuve  ont contribué, dans un esprit de coopération, au succès de vos travaux. Comme vous l’avez fait remarquer, cette session  est l’une des rares n’ayant pas nécessité que le Comité des candidatures organise des votes à répétition. C’est pourquoi je  vous félicite, vous, l’ensemble des membres du Comité que vous avez dirigé ainsi que tous ceux qui ont pris part à ce  travail exceptionnel. Vous vous êtes acquittés de cette lourde tâche de manière efficace, habile et admirable. Je vous  adresse à nouveau mes plus sincères remerciements pour cet excellent travail. Je voudrais à présent revenir sur vos  propositions et inviter le Secrétariat à en prendre note, en particulier la question qui, selon moi, n’appelle aucune  modification du règlement. Je fais ici allusion à l’organisation par le Secrétariat, avant la tenue de la Conférence générale,  de réunions visant à informer les États membres des responsabilités et missions assignées aux membres des Comités et  Commissions ainsi qu’aux rapporteurs. Je partage totalement votre avis car le manque de clarté est parfois nuisible. De  même, la proposition relative à l’examen préalable par le Conseil exécutif des candidatures au poste de Commissaire aux  comptes est digne d’intérêt et j’invite donc le Secrétariat à en prendre note. Même si son adoption devait nécessiter une  modification du Règlement intérieur, nous disposons d’un délai suffisamment long pour le faire. Je vous remercie encore  une fois. Passons à présent aux remarques. La parole est au représentant du Brésil.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
5.2 You have the floor, Sir.
6. Mr Dayrell de Lima (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me thank Ms Sybil Campbell for her work as Chairperson of this  Nominations Committee. It has been very purposeful and well done. Now there is a technical matter, Mr President, that  I have to put to you. The fact is that in the last electoral process, the announcement of the results took place one hour  before the time published in the journal, and my delegation, like many others, had no way of knowing the actual results  and how many votes the various candidates received. And so I am in a quandary in that I cannot find any written details  on how the voting actually went anywhere. There is no document giving those details, unless some document has been  released since, but I have not seen it. I think that every government has to know how many votes a candidate got  because we all cast votes in this very important election. So it is a technical matter, and I hope that the Secretariat can  produce a document which says exactly how many votes went to each candidate. Thank you.   :א ٧ א  .א،
(7) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je vous remercie et donne la parole à la représentante de la Jordanie.   :)א(א ٨ א א.א، א א א א ،א א א.א א א א١٢,٥א א א ، א ، א א א ، א א  .א
(8) Mme Bermamet (Jordanie) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Permettez-moi tout d’abord de féliciter la présidente du Comité des  candidatures pour la grande maîtrise avec laquelle elle a dirigé le Comité. J’ajoute que je souscris aux propos de  l’ambassadeur du Brésil. J’attirerai votre attention sur le paragraphe 7 du point 12.5 pour corriger une erreur.  Contrairement à ce qui apparaît dans la version arabe, M. Wasif Masri représente la Jordanie et Mme Iman El Kaffas  l’Égypte. Je vous remercie.   :א ٩,١ ، א א א ، א א ، ، א א א א א א.א א א אא א א א.، א א א א א א.א א.، .א  ؟
(9.1) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci beaucoup. Les représentants du Brésil et de la Jordanie ont raison et, si la présidente du Comité me le  permet, je demanderai au Secrétariat de publier un additif faisant état des précisions apportées par l’ambassadeur du  Brésil. En ce qui concerne la remarque relative à la version arabe, il ne s’agit pas de la première erreur,  l’ambassadeur du  Yémen en relève en effet quotidiennement. Aussi, demanderai-je au Secrétariat de veiller à ce que les documents rédigés  dans chaque langue soient tous extrêmement précis. J’espère que mes propos seront pris en compte. Merci. Cela  s’appliquait d’ailleurs hier à l’espagnol. Y a-t-il d’autres observations ?  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
9.2 Have the floor, Madam Chairperson.
10. Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Mr President, I would just like to explain what happened in terms of the starting times. We had announced at  the meeting of the Nominations Committee that there was a possibility that because we had so few committees and  commissions in which the vote would take place, we would be ready well ahead of five o’clock, and we suggested to  people that they look at the monitors and listen to the announcements made. But I apologize if there were any  delegations who were not aware that we would start earlier than five, and I am assured by the Secretariat that they will  issue a flash giving the exact number of votes each person got in the fourteen elections that took place. Thank you.
11.1 The President:  Thank you very much Ambassador.  (The President continues in Arabic)
(11.2) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Y a-t-il d’autres remarques ? Non. Je considère donc que la Conférence générale adopte le rapport. Je  remercie encore une fois Mme Campbell pour son excellent travail.  Report of Commission V: resolutions and recommendations  Rapport de la Commission V: résolutions et recommandations  Informe de la Comisión V: resoluciones y recomendaciones  Доклад Комиссии V: резолюции и рекомендации  א א:א א א א   第 V 委员会的报告：决议和建议   :א ١٢ א א א  .א
(12) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  J’invite à présent le président de la Commission V à prendre place à la tribune pour nous présenter son  rapport.
13.1 Mr Sheya (United Republic of Tanzania):  Shukran, sayyidī r-ra’īs. Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great honour and pleasure to present to you in brief the report of  Commission V (document 33/C 85). On behalf of my country, the United Republic of Tanzania, which I have the  honour to represent at UNESCO, I would like to thank the General Conference for the confidence that it has shown in  electing me to chair this important Commission.
13.2 First of all, I wish to thank the members of the Bureau of the Commission – Mr Daniel Malbert (France),  Ms Eleonora Husseinova (Azerbaijan), Ms Patricia Dore Castillo (Dominican Republic) and Mr Wacef Chiha  (Tunisia) – who provided me with constant support and have enormously facilitated my task. I especially acknowledge  the competence of the Rapporteur, Mr Laurence Zwimpfer (New Zealand). I also wish to thank the representatives of  the Director-General, Mr Abdul Waheed Khan and Mr Hans d’Orville and all their staff for their generous contribution  to our work. My special thanks go to the legal adviser, Mr El Zein, for his useful help during the debates. I would also  like to express my appreciation of the efficiency and seriousness of the secretariat of Commission V. Finally, I would  like to thank the interpreters and technicians who have helped us to communicate in a truly multilingual environment, as  well as the clerks who did their utmost to ensure that the documents needed for our work were at our disposal in a  timely manner.
13.3 I shall now summarize the substance of the debates of Commission V, highlighting the key points of the  discussion. In his opening remarks, Mr Khan provided an excellent global context for the Commission’s debates. The  Declaration of Principles adopted by the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva in 2003  recognized that education, knowledge, information and communication are at the core of human progress, endeavour  and well-being. Likewise, communication and information interact with all eight Millennium Development Goals  (MDGs).
13.4 Mr Torben Krogh, Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Council of the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC), reported on the successes of the programme, celebrating its 25th anniversary  this year. Since 1980, IPDC has supported 1,000 media development projects in 135 countries, but has now reached a  crucial stage. Unless an increased level of support is forthcoming, Mr Krogh warned that he would reluctantly be  recommending termination of the programme to the next General Conference.
13.5 The report on the Information for All Programme (IFAP) was presented in two parts. The first part was  presented by Mr Khan. Mr Khan noted the high level of support for the programme from the recent Executive Board  and stressed the need for greater commitment from Member States’ governments. The second part was presented by  Mr Daniel Malbert, Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Council for the Information for All Programme. Mr Malbert  highlighted the three priorities adopted by the Council to provide a focus for its work – information literacy, awareness  of preservation of information, and infoethics.
13.6 The Commission’s first debate related to the consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 2006-2007 (33 C/5). The Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning, Mr D’Orville, introduced the debate by  reminding delegates that document 33 C/5 covers the final biennium in the current six-year Medium-Term Strategy.  Mr D’Orville commented on the Communication and Information Sector’s lead role in information and communication
469  technology cross-cutting activities, stressing that a key goal is to integrate information and communication technologies  (ICTs) more fully into other sectors, that is, culture, education and science, and especially in contributing towards the  education for all goals.
13.7 Mr Khan pointed out that document 33 C/5 is closely linked with the World Summit on the Information  Society (WSIS) Plan of Action and the Millennium Development Goals. UNESCO’s concept of knowledge societies  and the four underlying principles – freedom of expression, quality education for all, universal access to information  and knowledge, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity – are now well accepted in the WSIS process. Mr Khan also  stressed the importance of media in achieving effective dialogue amongst people as well as ICTs in education.
13.8 Most delegates complimented the Director-General on the clarity of document 33 C/5 and welcomed the  greater focus on specific priorities. Some delegates encouraged the Director-General to continue to narrow the  programme focus, given the limited resources available. Others felt we should be pressing for more resources for the  Communication and Information Sector, given the increasing importance of communication and information across all  UNESCO sectors.
13.9 Many delegates expressed great satisfaction at the inclusion of specific reference to freedom of expression in  the principal priority of document 33 C/5. The need for UNESCO to continue to promote and support a free and  independent media, especially in post-conflict countries, was strongly stressed. Special vigilance was also encouraged  with the development of the Internet to ensure that press freedoms are not eroded in cyberspace, e.g. by restricting  access to websites or to certain search engines. A number of delegates stressed the ongoing critical role for UNESCO in  championing freedom of the press. At a time when so many journalists are under threat, with an increasing number of  them being killed in many different countries, UNESCO must respond affirmatively to this threat. There was strong  support for an ongoing focus on the social, legal and societal implications of ICTs as one specific area where UNESCO  has a clear mandate. The role of traditional media, especially radio, was recognized as still the most important source of  information for most people in the world, especially for rural communities and people who are visually impaired.
13.10 It was evident from the comments of many delegates that the digital divide remains a central concern. A  delegate from a small island State felt that the only way many countries could reach the Millennium Development  Goals would be through the use of ICTs. A number of countries referred to specific efforts being made in their countries  to overcome both the digital and the information divide and others offered to share their expertise and experiences.  Access to relevant software is critical in promoting knowledge creation. UNESCO’s support for open source software  such as CDS/ISIS and Greenstone was appreciated by delegates and they encouraged ongoing support. The request  from the Executive Board for the Director-General to continue to give strong emphasis to community multimedia  centres (CMCs) in developing countries was supported by a number of delegates. CMCs provide an excellent example  of how ICTs can be deployed to reach local communities.
13.11 There was a consistent call from delegates for more emphasis on the promotion of linguistic diversity. There  is a need to be able to use all languages with ICTs, and the availability of most software in only one language is viewed  as a serious threat. On the other hand, the deployment of ICTs and low-cost broadcast radio stations provide new  opportunities for the survival and growth of indigenous languages. ICTs provide a unique opportunity to promote and  encourage the development of local content.
13.12 Many delegates referred to the importance of preserving information, in libraries, archives, museums and,  increasingly, in digital format. A number of Member States and two observers called for the preservation of audiovisual  heritage to be fostered. Delegates also called for Memory of the World Programme to be strengthened.
13.13 The threat to IPDC because of a lack of funding drew a concerned response from many delegates. Many of  them spoke warmly of the significant benefits to their countries and how the helping hand provided by IPDC had  enabled them to build strong independent pluralistic media infrastructure. Several suggestions were made to assist with  fundraising.
13.14 Many delegates strongly supported the work of IFAP and some expressed an interest in taking a more active  role. Delegates noted and supported efforts to increase the visibility of this programme, noting the need for clearer  language to explain the activities and benefits to potential donors.
13.15 Most draft resolutions proposing amendments to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 (33/C 5)  moved swiftly to adoption, but one in particular resulted in some debate. The proposal from India sought to ensure that  UNESCO plays a more proactive role at the discussions for the protection of rights of broadcasting organizations at the  World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). While delegates supported the objectives and intent of the draft  resolution, there was discussion on the authority of UNESCO to intervene in the WIPO discussions. Some felt that  responsibility rested with Member States to make their views known to their representatives to WIPO.
13.16 A number of delegates reminded the Commission that the real benefits of ICTs come through the use of the  technologies, not from the technologies themselves. They encouraged the Director-General to continue to focus on the  benefits, and this generally means providing a context in education, the sciences and culture. Special mention was made
470  of the opportunities that ICTs provide for distance learning, including in the training of teachers and in the promotion of  life skills.
13.17 While delegates in general supported the need for maintaining and strengthening partnerships with NGOs,  civil society and the private sector, caution was also sounded that UNESCO must not compromise its principles in  entering these partnerships. There was a consistent call for more intersectoral collaboration within UNESCO. The  particular opportunities for collaboration with education and culture were noted.
13.18 One delegate drew attention to the risks of too much decentralization in evolving new areas such as ICTs.  Developing partnerships with other global organizations requires a strong centralized secretariat, and UNESCO must  ensure there are sufficient staff resources to develop these opportunities. However, Mr Khan pointed to the need for  UNESCO to retain a strong local presence to ensure that information and communication initiatives remain well  matched to local needs.
13.19 The Commission’s second and third debates related to the preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy  for 2008-2013 (34 C/4) and to the preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 (34 C/5), which is the  first biennium in this new Medium-Term Strategy. Comprehensive records of these debates have been included in the  written report of the Commission in document 33 C/85.
13.20 The Commission’s fourth debate included three items. The first related to UNESCO and the World Summit  on the Information Society (WSIS); the second to the Declaration on Media and Good Governance, and the third to the  Second World Information Technology Forum (WITFOR) 2005: Gaborone Protocol. Within the context of these items,  Member States were also invited to comment on the two reports from the Presidents of IFAP and IPDC, presented  during the opening session.
13.21 Mr Khan introduced the debate on “UNESCO and the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)” by  commenting on the importance being attached to the need for international dialogue on the information society and the  deployment of ICTs for development. UNESCO has achieved high visibility throughout the WSIS process, taking a  strong people-centred approach, with a focus on knowledge societies. Six of the eleven action lines fall within  UNESCO’s purview, but Mr Khan stressed that responsibilities amongst United Nations agencies for ongoing  coordination after the Tunis Summit in November have yet to be decided.
13.22 Delegates unanimously supported UNESCO’s active involvement in the WSIS process (before, during and  after) and the focus on knowledge societies. There was strong support to continue promoting the four principles  underlying knowledge societies – freedom of expression, quality education for all, universal access to information and  knowledge, and respect for cultural and linguistic diversity. Some delegates expressed explicit support for a partnership  with International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in the post-Summit phase, but delegates were opposed to the  establishment of any new international bureaucracy. Delegates supported Mr Khan’s proposal to continue to link work  plans in the Communication and Information Sector to the WSIS Plan of Action, noting that there may be further  concrete actions arising from the Summit itself. Delegates believed UNESCO could make special contributions in the  areas of education and languages. High on the post-Tunis agenda should be infoethics, which falls well within  UNESCO’s mandate; one delegate suggested that the main issues of our time are moral, ethical and spiritual, and this  further reinforces a focus on the ethical, legal and societal issues.
13.23 The observer from the Committee on Data for Science and Technology (CODATA) expressed appreciation  for support from UNESCO and welcomed ongoing collaboration, as science is at the heart of the information society.
13.24 The observer from the International Association of Democratic Lawyers raised some concerns about the risks  of censorship of the Internet. He was joined by the observer from the International Federation for Information  Processing (IFIP), who called for UNESCO to restart the INFOethics conference series to address newly emerging  aspects of social, legal and ethical issues.
13.25 Discussion on the draft resolution relating to WSIS (contained in document 33 C/41) focused on clarifying  that the text to avoid any possible misinterpretation that UNESCO might be pre-empting the outcomes of the Tunis  Summit. There was also extensive debate about the timing for reporting outcomes, with some feeling the 34th session of  the General Conference is too far away. Mr Khan agreed to bring a Summit outcome report to 174th session of the  Executive Board.
13.26 Sweden introduced the item on the Declaration on Media and Good Governance, explaining that draft  resolution 33 C/COM.V/DR.5 had been prepared with a view to seeking an endorsement from the General Conference  of the principles contained in the Declaration on Assistance to Media in Conflict Areas and Countries in Transition  (Belgrade, May 2004) and the Declaration on Media and Good Governance (Dakar, May 2005). The delegate of the  United States of America noted that technically the United States could not reaffirm the Declarations of Windhoek,  Alma Ata, Santiago, Sana’a and Sofia, as it was not part of UNESCO at the time of these declarations, and requested  that this be noted in the oral report. A proposal to add the concept of “responsible media” was debated, but eventually  withdrawn after there was a clear division of opinion. The paragraph that proposed “emphasizing the right freely to
471  access information held by public bodies as a vital component of good governance” also drew extensive debate. After a  vote, a consensus was reached, including the deletion of the words “held by public bodies”. However, although  accepting this consensus, the delegates of 20 countries asked that their concern about the deletion of this phrase be  recorded in this report, because the reference to good governance makes little sense without specific reference to  information held by public bodies. The countries wishing to be added to the record on this point are Canada, Czech  Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,  Portugal, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania and United States  of America.
13.27 The delegate of Botswana introduced the item on the Second World Information Technology Forum  (WITFOR) 2005: Gaborone Protocol by explaining that draft resolution 33 C/COM.V/DR.2 had been prepared to bring  to the attention of the General Conference the Gaborone Declaration of October 2005 in order to assist Member States  in planning future strategies and programmes in their respective countries. The practical focus on the eight thematic  themes and the best practice case studies are expected to help countries in moving from policy to action. This initiative  was warmly supported by a number of delegates.
13.28 The Commission’s fifth debate related to a proposal from the Director-General on the establishment of a  system of reports by Member States to the General Conference on measures taken to implement the Recommendation  concerning the Promotion and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyberspace adopted at the 32nd session  of the General Conference. The proposal received support from a number of delegates, with some suggesting more  frequent reporting – that is, every two years. However, some delegates did not support any form of reporting for non- binding instruments, as this added to administrative overheads at the national level and in the UNESCO Secretariat. The  draft resolution contained in document 33 C/40 was adopted without amendment by consensus, although the United  States of America stated that it wished to be disassociated from the consensus.
13.29 The Commission’s sixth and final debate related to the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the  adoption of the Recommendation for the Safeguarding and Preservation of Moving Images and Proclamation of the  World Day for Audiovisual Heritage. Draft resolution 33 C/COM.V/DR.1 was amended slightly to be inclusive of all  audiovisual documents, i.e. sound, video and film in both analogue and digital formats, and to reflect the need for  institutions to build greater preservation capacities, and was adopted unanimously on the understanding that a feasibility  study would now need to be carried out in accordance with standard procedures for establishing new World Days. The  feasibility would then be considered at the 173rd or 174th session of the Executive Board. This concludes my report on  the substance of the debates of Commission V. Thank you.   :א ١٤ ، א א "א א": א א.، א ، א א ، א א ، א א א אא א א א א א א.א א א א א א ، א א ، א ،.א אא א א א א א א א א.،  .א
(14) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Professeur Sheya, vous parlez tant de langues, aussi je vous adresse un mot en swahili : « shikamoo ».  Monsieur Sheya, permettez-moi de souligner que vous êtes un personnage éminent de cette Organisation et que vous ne  ménagez pas vos efforts au service des États membres. C’est pourquoi vous avez dirigé vos travaux avec la sagesse dont  vous avez toujours fait preuve malgré les exigences et la difficulté des missions assignées à la Commission V. Permettez- moi donc de saluer la qualité de ce rapport et de féliciter tous vos collaborateurs, ainsi que le Secrétariat pour l’aide  appréciable que vous avez évoquée dans votre brillante présentation. À présent, comme à l’accoutumée, je donne la  parole à quiconque souhaite commenter ce rapport et les résolutions y figurant. La parole est au représentant du Brésil.
15. M. Dayrell de Lima (Brésil) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Je remercie vivement le président de la Commission V pour sa présentation. Je  souhaiterais revenir sur un point de son rapport oral qui mérite d’être souligné. Pour le Brésil, il convient en effet de  mettre l’accent sur l’importance de la participation de l’UNESCO aux débats de l’Organisation mondiale de la propriété  intellectuelle relatifs à la protection des droits des organismes de radiodiffusion (broadcasting). Nous appuyons  entièrement le texte de la résolution présentée au paragraphe 17 du document 33 C/85, et en particulier le libellé de  l’alinéa (a) (v). Lorsque nous demandons que l’UNESCO joue un rôle plus proactif dans les débats de l’OMPI afin que  les objectifs de promotion de la liberté d’expression et d’accès universel à l’information et au savoir ne soient pas  compromis par les futures dispositions du traité qui est en cours de négociation, notre souci n’est pas d’éviter que  l’UNESCO aille au-delà de son mandat comme cela a été dit ici ; il est qu’elle fasse tout le nécessaire pour bien  s’acquitter de ce mandat. Pour nous en effet, il est hors de question que l’UNESCO renonce à remplir la mission qu’elle  s’est donnée, surtout lorsqu’il s’agit d’œuvrer en faveur d’objectifs qui lui sont aussi chers que la promotion de la  liberté d’expression et de l’accès au savoir. C’est pourquoi nous attachons tant d’importance à ce sujet. Nous aimerions
472  que cet éclaircissement soit dûment pris en compte dans le compte rendu de la présente séance. Je vous remercie  Monsieur le Président.    :א ١٦,١ א.؟.א.א  א א א א א א א א א א א ؟.א .א א א  .א
(16.1) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci beaucoup. Votre remarque sera consignée dans le procès-verbal de la séance. D’autres commentaires ?  Il n’y pas de commentaires ni remarques. Puis-je donc considérer que le rapport, les résolutions qui y figurent sont  approuvés compte tenu des éclaircissements apportés par Monsieur l’ambassadeur du Brésil ? Il en est ainsi décidé. Je  donne à présent la parole au représentant de la République tchèque.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
16.2 I call on Egypt, to be followed by the Czech Republic.  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ١٦,٣ ،.
(17) M. Hassan (Égypte) (traduit de l’arabe) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite simplement faire consigner la réserve qu’émet l’Égypte sur le projet  de résolution 33 C/COM.V/DR.5 intitulé « Déclaration sur les médias et la bonne gouvernance ». Nous considérons en  effet que le texte amendé est très opaque et confus, et demandons que cette réserve soit consignée dans le procès-verbal.  Je vous remercie.  Presentation by the Czech Republic of a film about UNESCO   Remise par la République tchèque d'un film sur l'UNESCO  Entrega, por la República Checa, de una película sobre la UNESCO  Передача кинофильма о ЮНЕСКО делегацией Чешской Республики  א אא   捷克共和国赠送一部介绍联合国教科文组织的影片   :א ١٨ א א  .א
(18) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Je donne donc de nouveau la parole au représentant de la République tchèque.
19. Ms Moserová (Czech Republic):  Thank you. The Czech Republic, in close cooperation with the International Federation of Film Archives, has  submitted a resolution proclaiming 27 October, the day on which, 25 years ago, the Recommendation concerning the  Safeguarding and Preservation of Moving Images was adopted as World Day of the Audiovisual Heritage. I take this  opportunity to thank all co-sponsors of the resolution and all Member States of UNESCO for the adoption of this  initiative. We sincerely hope that it will prove an efficient tool for raising public awareness and recognition of the  significance of this heritage, which is very vulnerable and needs to be protected. After all, UNESCO has the sad  experience of its vulnerability, since its film archives were destroyed by fire years ago. In the early years of UNESCO, a  number of film directors created remarkable works in support of the noble mission of the Organization. Many leading  creative artists produced marvellous works, and among them was a prominent Czech film maker, Jiří Trnka, author of  the film Why UNESCO? At the time he made the film he was already internationally respected for his highly original  approach to cartoon films and puppet films and his reputation survives to this day. The film Why UNESCO? is an  example of a special atmosphere that is typical of Trnka’s work: the audience is addressed in a much more impressive  manner than words alone, with the ideas explained by means of metaphorical images. It is my great honour to present  this film to UNESCO, whose copy was destroyed by the fire in its film archives. The only existing copy was preserved  and restored by our specialists. I am very glad that the loss of the film so many years ago was not irretrievable and that
473  now the film archives of UNESCO will again contain this treasure by Trnka, Why UNESCO? The film was created  more than 50 years ago and it clearly shows why we still need UNESCO in the twenty-first century.  Ms Moserová presents a copy of the film to the President.  (Applause)   :א ٢٠ ، ، א ، ، א א ، ، א א א א א א ،.א ، א אא א א א א ، א א א ، א א א א.، א ، א ؟" א א"א א א א א.א א ، א א א א א ،.א א א ، א א אא ، ،.א ، א ، ، א א א א ، א א א.א א א א א א אא،.א א ، א א א א א.א א א א א א א ، א א א א א א "٨,٣א א: א א ".א א א א ، א א א א א א.א א א  .א
(20) Le Président (traduit de l’arabe) :  Mesdames et Messieurs, Chers collègues. C’est avec un sentiment de grand honneur et d’extrême fierté que je  reçois en votre nom un présent inestimable, un excellent film relatant l’histoire de notre Organisation et l’action  humanitaire qu’elle mène sans relâche en faveur de la solidarité internationale. C’est, à titre personnel, un honneur  d’autant plus grand qu’il m’est remis par  ma chère collègue Mme Moserová qui a  brillamment présidé, et avec succès,  les travaux de la Conférence générale à sa 30e session. Au nom de l’UNESCO, j’applaudis et salue cette importante  initiative visant à conserver une copie du film Pourquoi UNESCO ? du grand cinéaste tchèque Jiří Trnka. Je suis certain  que ce film sera projeté très prochainement et j’espère que le Directeur général l’inscrira au programme des célébrations  du 60e anniversaire de l’UNESCO. D’autre part, cette copie sera conservée dans les archives de l’Organisation. Je vous  remercie donc chaleureusement ainsi que le Gouvernement tchèque et rend hommage au réalisateur de ce chef-d’œuvre.  Encore une fois, merci. Mesdames,  Messieurs, comme hier, cette dix-neuvième séance plénière sera levée à onze heures  trente. Nous reprendrons nos travaux à quinze heures pour examiner et adopter le rapport de la Commission I. La réunion  conjointe de l’ensemble des commissions de la Conférence aura lieu comme prévu mais est reportée à seize heures trente.  À l’issue de cette réunion, la plénière reprendra ses travaux à dix-sept heures quinze et sera saisie du rapport de la  Commission IV ainsi que du point 8.3 de l’ordre du jour : « Avant-projet de convention sur la protection des contenus  culturels et des expressions artistiques ». Je vous saurais gré de bien vouloir respecter ce programme. Continuons sur  cette lancée pour que cet après-midi se déroule tout aussi bien que cette matinée et que nous achevions nos travaux en  temps et en heure dans l’entente générale. Merci à tous. La séance est levée. Je vous donne rendez-vous à quinze heures.      The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.  La séance est levée à 11 h 35   Se levanta la sesión a las 11.35  Заседание закрывается в 11.35  א   ١١,٣٥א 会议于 11 时 35 分结束