18  Report of the Youth Forum  Rapport du Forum des jeunes  Informe del Foro de la Juventud  Доклад Форума молодежи  א   青年论坛报告
1. The President:  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your punctual arrival for this  afternoon’s session, which for us is a very important session devoted to youth and the future of the world. Ladies and  gentlemen, before we examine item 1.4 which is the adoption of the provisional agenda, I am now pleased to give the  floor to Mr Clement Mwangi from Kenya, who is Chairperson of the Youth Forum. He will present to us the main  conclusions of the Youth Forum. As you are all aware, the Youth Forum of UNESCO’s General Conference was held at  UNESCO Headquarters from 30 September to 2 October. During these three days, 184 young representatives of
128 countries had the opportunity to exchange views, share experiences and identify proposals and solutions for the  future. During this time, the Forum focused on three major items closely related to UNESCO’s mandate: all different,  all unique, celebrating cultural diversity through dialogue; safeguarding the future, practising dialogue for sustainable  development and learning to live together; promoting dialogue for peace and reconciliation. Mr Mwangi, you have the  floor.
2. Mr Mwangi (Kenya) (Chairperson of the Youth Forum):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Mr Chairman of the  Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished representatives of UNESCO Member States, ladies and  gentlemen, dear friends we are the representatives of the Youth Forum of UNESCO. I will start by introducing myself  and my team. My name is Clément Mwangi, and I am from Kenya. I am accompanied by my two rapporteurs, Afikria  El Abbouri from the Netherlands and Andry Yudha Kusuma from Indonesia. As you can, see we are the embodiment of  this year’s theme, “Young people and the dialogue among civilizations, cultures and peoples – ideas for action in  education, the sciences, culture and communication”. And you, the delegates of the General Conference, are also the  embodiment of intercultural dialogue. We met here to show our sincere intention to participate constructively in the  world’s quest for the promotion of cultural diversity, peace and sustainable development through dialogue as partners of  tomorrow, starting today. We wish to address our deep gratitude to all UNESCO Member States for your unceasing  efforts to create a better world for all generations. You have received the Youth Forum report, which details the  contributions of the youth delegates from your countries. We gathered here for three days and debated, discussed,  agreed and disagreed on different issues. We maintained a friendly atmosphere, not despite but thanks to our cultural  diversity. I feel proud to represent youth, and I will not betray the spirit built up during the Forum. Therefore we are  going to be brief and clear. Please keep in mind that the ideas in the report are meant for action to benefit youth, but we  believe that the General Conference can learn much from them.
3. Mr Kusuma (Indonesia) (Rapporteur of the Youth Forum):  Among the issues discussed at the Forum were cultural diversity, sustainable development, and peace and  reconciliation. Cultural diversity should be encouraged and young people should be made aware of the contribution of  different cultures to our common heritage. Cultural dialogue is a state of mind – it is the willingness to listen to others in  dialogue. In this, we should educate young people. Sustainable development is a key factor for peace and stability given  the increasing rarity of resources. At the same time, we are aware of the existing gap between talk and practice in this  area. Peace education and reconciliation should be part and parcel of all forms of education to enhance the promotion of  values such as solidarity, respect, tolerance and multiculturalism. We have a duty, a responsibility to take care of young  people in all parts of the world and to build a better future of understanding and justice. By teaching young people to  have critical thinking ability, we can prevent discrimination and conflict.
4. Ms El Abbouri (Netherlands) (Rapporteur of the Youth Forum):  The Fourth UNESCO Youth Forum brought together the highest number of participants in its history. This is  a sign of the growing interest in the Forum on the part of young people. It is for this reason that UNESCO needs to  acknowledge the importance of this gathering. We appreciate the efforts made by UNESCO and its Section for Youth to  bring us together to promote dialogue. We are honoured to be here today, but we do have mixed feelings. For us to  come up with concrete and applicable recommendations, we feel that it would be important to allocate more time and  resources for future UNESCO Youth Forums. We, as a drafting committee, have worked tirelessly to deliver the final  report for your consideration, which was the objective stated by all young delegates. We recommend that in the future  the Youth Forum should be allocated enough time for its deliberations and the consolidation of these contributions in a  report that reflects all the ideas. The participants are also of the opinion that follow-up and evaluation of the  implementation of all recommendations made in the Youth Forum report are necessary. As we pointed out earlier on,  we decided to be brief because we would like to emphasize that simplicity is the key to life, and also to draw attention
19  to the gap between talk and practice. In conclusion, although the word “dialogue” is associated with talking, “dialogue”  actually means listening and understanding each other.
5. Mr Mwangi (Kenya) (Chairperson of the Youth Forum):  I would like to remind you that the Youth Forum is the fruit of dialogue among young people. But this is just  the start of our dialogue with you, Member States. We thank you in advance and we hope the recommendations will  receive your most favourable consideration. I wish you success in the work you have ahead of you in the General  Conference. I am sorry to break tradition, but we are going to say “thank you” in English, and our national languages,  not the official languages of UNESCO. Thank you very much.
6.1 The President:  Thank you very much young men and women, and God bless you. We are all proud of you, and you have  given us fresh vision and wisdom, which I believe will be helpful for the work of UNESCO. Distinguished delegates,  may I now invite all the programme commissions to bear in mind during their respective work the report of the Youth  Forum we have just listened to. It may serve as a further inspiration for your forthcoming deliberations on UNESCO’s  programmes. I would like to know if any delegate would like to make any comments in connection with the Youth  Forum before I invite you to adopt the report.  (The President continues in French)
6.2 Je donne maintenant la parole au professeur Kenneth Wiltshire, de l’Australie.
7. Mr Wiltshire (Australia):  Thank you very much, Mr President, and I am sure that Australia would like to congratulate the young people  on the Youth Forum. It is the most successful Youth Forum yet held in this House, and the theme was very relevant –  the dialogue among civilizations. The report is extremely impressive, and I think it will make a wonderful contribution  to our Conference in all of the commissions. Australia would also like to thank the Director-General for facilitating this  Youth Forum and for supporting delegates, particularly from developing countries, to come to attend it. I particularly  welcome the comments of the young people on the reform of the Youth Forum, making it even more effective and  making it bigger and better. These young people will be the leaders of tomorrow, they will be members of National  Commissions, they will be ambassadors, and I think the future of UNESCO is alive and well when we have had such an  excellent Forum and a wonderful report from them. I congratulate them; we thank them very much for their  deliberations; we thank the Secretariat for having facilitated the Forum. Thank you, Mr President.
8. The President:  Thank you for your consistent support for this very important Youth Forum. I would like to join you in  congratulating all those very eminent people who have supported the idea of the Youth Forum, and to congratulate the  Director-General and the Secretariat for their regular support. I will now give the floor to the last speaker, the  distinguished representative from Iceland.
9. Mr Einarsson (Iceland):  Thank you, Mr President. I cannot resist saying a few words of praise. Firstly, for the Forum itself, I am told  by the participants themselves that they are extremely happy and feel that it is going in the right direction, getting better  and better. And then I would like to echo some of what my dear colleague from Australia has said, and I would  especially like to draw your attention, above all in the commissions, to items like the one on the Open Youth Alliance  Community – which is quite intriguing, with the emphasis on non-formal education, informal education, and the part of  indigenous people in the work of the Youth Forum. And lastly I would also like to say that I think the Media for Youth  idea is excellent. Thank you, Mr President
10. The President:  I would like to thank very much the distinguished representative of Iceland. I had intended that to be the last  comment on this report. But because the Youth Forum has generated considerable interest in UNESCO and in order to  show our appreciation of the tremendous contribution it has made, I will allow one last contribution from the  distinguished representative of Spain. You have the floor, Sir.
(11) Mr Ridao Domínguez (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):  The delegation of Spain has always supported the idea of the Youth Forum. We believe that an institution that  is already 60 years old should concern itself more with young people than with the old among us who have been with the  Organization for ever. We are therefore very pleased to see that the Forum has become an established institution at  UNESCO. We should accordingly like to thank the Director-General and his collaborators for all the efforts they have  made to promote the Forum, and the participants, and at the same time, perhaps, voice two concerns for the future that  might benefit the conception of the Forum. Firstly, it is logical that the Forum should wish to increase its capacity for  action but this should not lead to excessive bureaucratization; and, secondly, the Forum is turning into a very attractive  brand image, because the concept of UNESCO and youth is an explosive combination for anyone wishing to exploit it for  their own ends. We must, therefore, keep a very close watch on the integrity of this initiative so as to ensure that it  remains an open forum where young people can tell us freely what they think of UNESCO’s programme and activities.  Thank you, Mr President.
12. The President:  Muchas gracias. Your Excellency. I appreciate your contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to  propose that the written text of the report be made available in the commission meeting rooms for consideration by each  of the commissions. I see no objections to my proposal. It is therefore so decided.  Adoption of the agenda  Adoption de l’ordre du jour  Aprobación del orden del día  Утверждение повестки дня  א  א 通过议程
13. The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine item 1.4 of our agenda, contained in document 33 C/1 (prov.)  Rev., which was prepared by the Executive Board at its 172nd session. Supplementary items to be added to the agenda  will be considered by the General Committee of the General Conference during its first meeting tomorrow morning and  also during further meetings if necessary. In this connection, let me recall that a number of supplementary agenda items  flowing from the recent 172nd session of the Executive Board will indeed be considered by the General Committee  tomorrow morning. Let me also remind you that, according to our Rules of Procedure, notably Rule 15, all further  proposals concerning supplementary items to be added to the agenda must be examined beforehand by the General  Committee. I shall now give the floor to Ambassador Hans-Heinrich Wrede, Chairman of the Executive Board, to  present this item. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
14. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Thank you, Mr President, Deputy Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentleman, in  accordance with the provisions of Article V.B 6(a) of the Constitution of UNESCO, the revised provisional agenda of  the present session of the General Conference was prepared by the Executive Board at its 172nd session on the basis of  a document submitted to it by the Director-General. And it took a decision thereon. By the same decision, the Board  also decided that any other items submitted by Member States or Associate Members or by the United Nations in  accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, not later than 100 days before the opening of the session – that is
24 June 2005 – shall be inscribed by the Director-General on the provisional agenda, which shall then be communicated  to Member States and Associate Members not later than 90 days before the opening of the session – that was 4 July
2005. At its last meeting a few days ago, the Board examined the revised provisional agenda and retained six  supplementary items that were submitted to it within the time limit set by Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference. These items have now been included in the supplementary list communicated to Member States  and Associate Members in accordance with the provisions of Rule 12, paragraph 3, of these Rules of Procedure.  Mr President, on behalf of the Executive Board, I therefore have the honour to submit for adoption by the General  Conference the revised provisional agenda contained in document 33 C/1 (prov.) Rev. Thank you, Sir.
15. The President:  Thank you, Ambassador Wrede, for your very brief and concise presentation. Is there any comment on this  item before it is adopted? I see none. The agenda is adopted.
21  Election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and of Chairpersons, Vice- Chairpersons and Rapporteurs of the Commissions and Committees  Élection du président et des vice-présidents de la Conférence générale,   ainsi que des présidents, vice-présidents et rapporteurs des commissions et comités  Elección del Presidente y de los Vicepresidentes de la Conferencia General, y de los Presidentes, Vicepresidentes  y Relatores de las comisiones y comités  Выборы Председателя и заместителей Председателя Генеральной конференции, а также председателей и  докладчиков комиссий и комитетов  א א א א א א  א 选举大会主席和副主席以及各委员会主席、副主席和报告人
16. The President:  Your Excellencies, I’m sorry, I had to consult the Legal Adviser of the Organization before proceeding  further. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now examine item 1.5 of our agenda concerning the election of the President of  the General Conference. I now call upon Her Excellency, Ambassador Sybil Campbell to present the recommendation  of the Board concerning the office of President of the 33rd session of the General Conference. Ambassador Campbell,  you have the floor.
17. Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):  Thank you, Mr President. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the Nominations Committee held its first  meeting this morning, and I was honoured to be elected its Chairperson. The Nominations Committee examined the  recommendations of the Executive Board regarding the post of President of the 33rd session of the General Conference.  The Committee decided to recommend to the General Conference that it approve the candidature of Mr Musa bin Jaafar  bin Hassan of the Sultanate of Oman as President of the 33rd session of the General Conference. Thank you,  Mr President.
18. Le Président :  M. Matsuura, je vous donne maintenant la parole.
19. The Director-General:  Thank you very much, Mr President. Before congratulating your successor, I would like to thank you,  Mr President, on behalf of all Member States of UNESCO, all members of the Secretariat and myself for the excellent  and consensual way in which you have fulfilled your duties as President of the 32nd session of the General Conference  over the past two years. It has been a great pleasure and honour to work with you. Africa can be truly proud of all you  have done during your term of office, which has coincided with a number of significant developments that have further  cemented the close relationship between Africa and UNESCO. In 2004 we celebrated the International Year to  Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition, and this year the first meeting of the World Heritage  Committee took place on African soil. Our working relationship with the African Union and NEPAD grew closer,  especially in the areas of education, culture and science. Mr President, during the last two years we have all benefited  from your wise counsel, your promotion of dialogue and your instinct for building consensus. As a token of our esteem  and in recognition of your outstanding contribution to the Organization, it gives me a great pleasure to present you with  UNESCO’s gold medal. It is a gold medal representing Confucius.  (Applause)
20. The President:  Thank you, Mr Director-General. I would like to thank you, Mr Director-General, for your support and  encouragement over the past two years. You have given me a fresh lease of life and shared your vision of a reformed  and rejuvenated UNESCO. I appreciate the elegance of your style, your consistent composure and your permanent  dedication to this great Organization. Before I finally leave this podium, Mr Director-General, and I assure you that it is  going to be very soon, I should like to give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, Ambassador Hans- Heinrich Wrede to say a few words. You have the floor, Sir.
21. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Thank you, Mr President. It is a great honour for me in this very special moment to express to you, the  distinguished President of the 32nd session of the General Conference, our good and great friend, Ambassador Michael  Omolewa, our deeply felt gratitude on behalf of the entire Executive Board for the excellent manner in which you have  conducted your presidency throughout the past two years. Let me also thank you sincerely for the friendship and  cooperation you have always offered to the Board and to myself personally during the last biennium. Thank you and our  very best wishes for your future.  (Applause)
22. The President:  It is now my pleasure, my privilege, to invite the President of the 33rd session of the General Conference of  UNESCO to take his place at the podium, Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, please come and take the floor.  (Applause)  (Omani fanfare)  (Applause)  ((א ٢٣ א) א א  ):א א א א א א א ،.א א א א  .א.א
(23) Mr Musa Hassan (Oman) (President of the 33rd session of the General Conference)  (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much to the Royal Omani Symphony Orchestra for this beautiful piece of music. I should  like to give the floor to the Director-General, His Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura. You have the floor.
24. The Director-General:  I would like to pay tribute to the new President of the General Conference at its 33rd session. It gives me  great pleasure to congratulate you, Ambassador Musa, on your election. I know you to be a great friend of UNESCO,  and I look forward very much to working closely with you during the next three weeks and then during the next two  years leading to the 34th session of the General Conference. Mr. President, I wish you every success in fulfilling the  duties and responsibilities that you have now assumed. You can count on our full support in the period ahead. Thank  you very much.   :א ٢٥ א.א א א،א  .א
(25) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. I would like now to giver the floor to His Excellency Ambassador Hans-Heinrich  Wrede, Chairman of the Executive Board.
26. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Mr President, this wonderful ceremony reminds me a little of the moment when one receives a gold medal at  the Olympic Games. You have won the gold medal of UNESCO. On behalf of the Executive Board, I now take  particular pleasure in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election to the highest position that UNESCO has to  offer. I am happy to inform you that, in its session just two weeks ago, the Board nominated you for this post  unanimously. We are proud to have in you, Sir, a most distinguished colleague as President of the General Conference  and, indeed, a colleague and friend of the highest standing, endowed with the best possible qualifications for performing  this pivotal function. Let me at the same time express, on behalf of us all, our gratitude to the Sultanate of Oman, which  I had the honour of visiting some months ago, for a wonderful visit, for placing at the service of UNESCO one of that  great country’s most eminent sons. Congratulations. Our best wishes go to you, Sir   :א ٢٧,١ א א  .א א ٢٧,٢ א ،.א א א ، א א ، א א א א ، א א א אא א א א א א א א א א א א.א א א א א א א.א א א א א א ، א א א ، ،א א א א א א א א א א א א א א  .א א ٢٧,٣ א א א א، אא א א א א ، א ، א א ، א א א ، ، א א "א א: א א א ،".א א א ، א
(27.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Please allow me to take the floor myself.
(27.2)  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, distinguished heads of delegation, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General, honourable ladies and gentlemen. I would like first of all to express my deep thanks  and my sincere gratitude to the Member States for their kind gesture in unanimously choosing me to accept this great
25  responsibility. I see this unanimity as a mark of respect for my country, which nominated me for this position, and for the  Arab States group, which was the first to agree on my nomination. I assure you that it is a grave responsibility, as much  as a source of joy and satisfaction given the trust that the Member States have shown in my country and in me personally.  What makes it a grave responsibility is the fact that this trust impresses on me the wisdom of the assembled Member  States, and makes me all the more determined to fulfil my duties with the fullest success and to do so vigilantly, making  use of all of my strength and experience. I hope thereby to further the cause of dialogue between States, while we all keep  our eyes fixed on the lofty goal that is harmony, agreement and mutual affection between every nation and people.
(27.3) I would like to express my greetings to Professor Michael Abiola Omolewa, for his wise and perceptive  leadership in organizing the 32nd session of our General Conference. My dear friend, you were able to do this through  the depth of your experience and your generous spirit, imbued with wisdom from the depths of the continent you  represent. This wisdom is summarised in a phrase from one of Africa’s most profound thinkers, Amadou Hampâté Ba,  who said, “People can arrive at the same goal without all travelling along the same road”. I would also like to thank His  Excellency Ambassador Hans-Heinrich Wrede, Chairman of the Executive Board, for his effective and energetic role in  directing the Board’s activities over the past two years. During this time, our Executive Board was able to achieve many  important and remarkable goals, which will facilitate the task of this current session of the General Conference. My dear  colleague and friend, this achievement is a tribute to your devoted efforts and to your outstanding practical ability. I  would also like in my speech today to convey my compliments to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura on his nomination by the  Executive Board for a second term, something that is a testament to his past and ongoing efforts in developing and  modernising UNESCO’s work. The Member States’ renewed general consensus on your name is an expression of their  respect and their recognition of the achievements of your first term. I would like to salute your determination to acquaint  yourself personally with the needs of the Member States in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. You have been the first  Director-General to do so, travelling from one State to another to experience their problems from close up. In so doing,  you have worked to enable the Organization to fulfil in the best possible way its mission for development in the fields of  education, science, culture and communication. Mr Director-General, all of this was made possible by the wish you  expressed on accepting the leadership of UNESCO, the wish to promote in the Organization’s work a culture of harmony,  corresponding to the concept of wa in Japanese culture. Allow me to congratulate you on the trust of the Member States.
(27.4) Distinguished audience, ladies and gentlemen, the Arab philosopher Abu Hayyan at-Tauhidi relates how a  wise man answered the question, “Who is your friend?” His answer was, “When you go to your friend with some need,  you find that friend quicker to help you than you were to ask for help.” Our Organization, which our founding fathers  described as the conscience of the international community, is ceaselessly working to be that close friend to the peoples  of the world, and especially to the less developed and the developing countries. It is not called upon to respond to their  needs more quickly than they can ask for help. It is, however, called upon to anticipate those needs, to become aware of  them in advance, so that it can act when the need arises. It must approach the world with all of its rational and intellectual  resources, so as to assess the problems that might face our world and devise potential solutions. We must not just react to  crises; we must do so eagerly, assessing all of the possible scenarios to solve them as soon as they surface in any one of  our societies or regions.
(27.5) Ladies and gentlemen, the world is becoming a global village. Globalization is making the world into a space  for contact between humans. Today’s conditions mean we have to bear in mind new equations, to explain how Europe is  affected by the problems of the African continent; how Asia is infected by the crisis that reaches it from America. By this  logic, the plague that might strike Oceania threatens every continent. Globalization and its consequences mean that we  must find comprehensive solutions, even as we confront small-scale, local problems. The rules of this age require us to  put everybody first, without exception. If any part of this planet’s body is wounded, and we do not hasten to find a  comprehensive cure, then the diseases caused by that wound soon become difficult to contain.
(27.6) At this 33rd session of our General Conference, as we grapple with the changes and upsets that affect our  world – and as we prepare to celebrate 60 years since this Organization was founded – we are required to find our  strategy. Finding our strategy means quite simply that we dare to set new boundaries for our very selves, as the wise  would put it. It means that we take a fresh look at our Millennium Development Goals. We do so five years after the  world heads of State agreed to adopt these goals. As regards the work of our Organization specifically, we assess the  obstacles that stand in the way of these goals, so that we can put in place the necessary measures, and do all that needs to  be done. Now, as I see the process of development nearing completion, and as its constituent elements begin to interlock,  I cannot ignore a single one of those goals for the new millennium. They are all organically linked. Nowhere is this truer  than in the fight against extreme poverty, in the protection of the environment, in the struggle against the plague of AIDS,  and in the other noble and vital goals. At the same time, however, I can see that our Organization’s work is intense and  productive in two issues that follow from the goals of education for all (EFA), and from the World Education Forum in  Dakar. These two goals are: realizing comprehensive primary education, and strengthening gender equality. I am  reminded here of the words of one of UNESCO’s founding fathers, the late Egyptian writer and intellectual, and author of  the book The Days, Dr Taha Husain, who said in 1950, “Education is like water and air: it should be for everybody.” This  statement was perhaps a precursor to the task that was then taken up by the international community decades later in  Jomtien, Thailand, and then in Dakar, Senegal.
(27.7) Ladies and gentlemen, we must narrow the distance between plans and intentions on the one hand, and  practice and implementation on the other hand. Taking into account both sides of this problem, I would like to say what I  think the Organization can achieve, and what progress I think is possible especially as regards strengthening Education  for All and bringing the goals of the Dakar Framework for Action within everybody’s reach and making them a reality on  our planet. If we see that there is a goal that is difficult to realize in one or other country or region, we must work to the  best of our ability so that the party or State in question can reach the goals within its stated time-frame. The issue of  education is crucial to the process of development. Indeed, it is the cornerstone on which sustainable development rests.
26  Without education there can be no modern technology, no culture, no modern economy, no health. As Taha Husain put it,  education is like water and air: without it there can be no life.
(27.8) We begin with education and end with education. So the mission of education is pursued in a never-ending  circle, like the sphere of this planet, whose distances we are reducing. Because education is the cornerstone for building  knowledge, and nowhere more so than in the contemporary sciences, I value the direction that our Organization has  taken, towards building knowledge societies. Modern information and communications technology, which have the most  important part to play in building the global village today, remain focused on questions of technology and  communication without supplying these channels with knowledge. For the world of knowledge, on which knowledge  societies are based, can ensure a diverse, open and rational future, a future based on equal opportunities. It can do so not  only by providing a good education system and by fostering varied and rich skills, but also through universal and  equitable exchange in those fields of knowledge and skill. Hence the guiding value of UNESCO, which has gained it  continuous respect and recognition at the World Summit on the Information Society in both of its phases, last year in  Geneva and this year in Tunis, God willing. The true significance of discussions on the digital divide therefore becomes  clear only when the issue of the knowledge divide is raised; knowledge, after all, is at the heart of any means of  communication and exchange. Without knowledge, means of exchange and communication are useless, like roads paved  in the wilderness, leading nowhere. It is thanks to the sciences that modern information and communications technology  came to exist, and it is in order to spread and transfer the sciences that the world preserves and develops them. The  sciences were the necessary prerequisite for these forms of technology, and it is the sciences that now give them life,  preserve them and develop them. This world of knowledge is diverse, plural and rich, thanks to its numberless tributaries  from every direction. In this diversity, there is a constantly renewed process of mutual generation: new ideas give rise to  diversity, and diversity gives rise to new ideas.
(27.9) Distinguished audience, the French thinker Restif de la Bretonne linked happiness with culture, saying,  “Happiness is the fruit of life, and its taste comes from culture”. As the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity puts  it, culture “should be regarded as the set of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual and emotional features of society or  a social group, and that it encompasses, in addition to art and literature, lifestyles, ways of living together, value systems,  traditions and beliefs.” It is the sum of what constitutes human happiness. As such, it takes “diverse forms across time  and space. This diversity is embodied in the uniqueness and plurality of the identities of the groups and societies that  make up humankind. As a source of exchange, innovation and creativity, cultural diversity is as necessary for humankind  as biodiversity is for nature. In this sense, it is the common heritage of humanity and should be recognized and affirmed  for the benefit of present and future generations.” We must redouble our efforts to protect our tangible and intangible  cultural heritage.
(27.10) Honourable ladies and gentlemen, globalization in the direction it is taking displays a tendency towards  eliminating diversity and mindlessly accepting a single model. Our wealth resides in diversity, and we fall when we  succumb to one single way of thinking. Diversity opens vast horizons for the talents of our young people. It allows them  to develop and progress, so that their future is full of excellent opportunities, enthusiasm, and valuable initiatives for  themselves and for others, for themselves and for the whole world. I hope that this session of ours will allow us to  concentrate on the tasks and activities of the Organization, as regards the programmes for youth and their promotion. I  also hope we can advance the programmes for women, given that these are vital initiatives that are closely linked to the  process of development more generally. Development cannot truly come to life if it fails to take account of women and of  their increasing role at work. The success of women mirrors that of society. Any society where women are not successful  and do not achieve must look again at its process of development.
(27.11) In a world of pluralism, diversity and difference, the need for dialogue is all the more pressing. Because this  need is a given, I place the stress on the need for the dialogue of cultures, at this time when there is so much talk of the  clash of cultures. There is no such thing as a clash of cultures. Any clash is not cultural but ignorant, sterile and  destructive. When cultures meet, they engage in dialogue, they flourish and they shine. When cultures clash, they are  eliminated, and they fail to meet. History teaches us that no sooner do two cultures meet, than they produce forms of  music, literary works, architecture, agriculture, and new diverse ways of living. This is how the building of human  civilization can progress, brick by brick, while constant dialogue makes cultures grow and flourish. Ladies and  gentlemen, I am reminded here of a text by the Andalusian poet Muhyi-d-Din ibn Arabi, in which he says: “My heart has  become able to receive any form: A pasture for gazelles, a monastery for monks, a home for idols, a Kaaba for pilgrims,  the slabs of the Torah, the book of the Qur’an. I believe in the religion of love; wherever its caravans may roam, lLove is  my faith and my creed.”
(27.12) Distinguished audience, kind gathering, in this Conference, an agenda full of fascinating topics awaits us,  many of which will lead to stimulating discussions and to new, promising horizons. The more we work together, the  more comprehensive the rewards will be. A momentous and busy task awaits us, something that brings me great  satisfaction. Distinguished audience, I speak of that satisfaction that has been described as that wonderful feeling that  overcomes you when you are too busy to find time to feel sad. These are the things I hope for in the work that lies ahead.  The words that come to mind are words of thanks and gratitude. I would like once again to thank you. It means a lot to  me that you have all gathered around my nomination, and I feel that this ample demonstration of affection and esteem is  the result of my own friendship with all of you. If any credit is due, then it is due ultimately to the land where I was born,  my country Oman. If any gratitude is due, then it is due to my country’s policies and to its dearly beloved monarch, His  Majesty the Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, may God preserve and guide him, who promised his people friendship and  cooperation with all of the States and peoples of the world, and made good his promise. Thank you very much, and may  the peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.
(27.13) Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let us return to our work. We shall now continue discussing item 1.5 of the  agenda, regarding the election of the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and the two documents relating to the  subject. I would therefore like to call on Her Excellency Ambassador Sybil Campbell, Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, to present the list of the 36 nominees recommended for the posts of Vice-Presidents of this Conference. You  have the floor.
28. Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Mr President, before continuing with item 1.5, may I congratulate you on your election as President of the  General Conference at its 33rd session. This distinction is well-merited and I know, on the basis of your long experience  in UNESCO, that you will conduct our proceedings wisely and well. This morning, Mr President, the Nominations  Committee recommended 36 heads of delegations for the posts of Vice-President of the 33rd session of the General  Conference and I will read out the names of the Member States concerned in alphabetical order. They are Australia,  Austria, Barbados, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Colombia, Comoros, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Dominican  Republic, Egypt, France, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Jordan, Kuwait, Lithuania, Madagascar, Malaysia, Nepal,  Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint Lucia, Senegal, Spain, South Africa,  Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United States of America and Yemen. I submit to you, Mr President, this  recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning the 36 Vice-Presidents of the 33rd session of the General  Conference.   :א ٢٩ א.א א.א א א א א א א א א א.א א .א אא א א ، א ،..
(29) The President (translation from the Arabic):  The nominations have been read out to you. It appears that there are no objections. I therefore declare that the  heads of delegation of the Member States cited in the list that has just been read out have been elected as Vice-Presidents  of the General Conference. Let us now move on to forming the committees and electing their Chairpersons. Your  Excellency the Ambassador, you have the floor again, to present the nominees for the posts of Chairpersons of the  various commissions and committees of the Conference.
30. Ms Campbell (Jamaica) (Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Colleagues, Mr President, the Nominations Committee recommends the following names: for Commission I,  Ms Bhaswati Mukherjee of India; for Commission II, Ms Gun-Britt Andersson of Sweden; for Commission III,  Mr Július Oszlányi of Slovakia; for Commission IV, Mr Jaime Nualart of Mexico; for Commission V, Mr Mohammed  Sheya of the United Republic of Tanzania; for the Administrative Commission, Mr Mohammed Bedjaoui of Algeria.  That is my list, Mr President.   :א ٣١,١ א ، א ، ،.א א א א א א א א ، א ، א ، א א ،−א א ، א ، ،א א ، א א ، א ، ، ، א א ، א ، א ، א א ، א ، א א א  .אאא.א
(31.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency the Ambassador and Chairperson of the Nominations Committee. If  there are no objections to the recommendations of the Nominations Committee, then I declare that Ms Bhaswati  Mukherjee of India has been elected Chairperson of Commission I; Ms Gun-Britt Andersen of Sweden has been elected  Chairperson of Commission II; Mr Július Oszlányi of Slovakia has been elected Chairperson of Commission III;  Mr Jaime Nualart Sánchez of Mexico has been elected Chairperson of Commission IV; Mr Mohammed Shaaban Sheya  of the United Republic of Tanzania has been elected Chairperson of Commission V; Mr Mohammed Bedjaoui of Algeria  has been elected Chairperson of the Administrative Commission. We therefore consider that the Conference has agreed to  appoint the aforementioned as Chairpersons of the commissions.
(31.2) Honourable ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate you all and to remind you that in accordance with  Rule 41, you have all become members of the General Committee of the General Conference whose first session will be  held tomorrow at 9 a.m., in Room 10. An official invitation together with the agenda for that session will reach you  shortly. So in addition to the six Commissions that we formed a few moments ago, and the Nominations Committee and  the Credentials Committee that we formed this morning, it remains only to elect the Chairperson of the Legal Committee.  We shall then have completed the election of the commissions and committees of the General Conference. I would now  like to give the floor to the Secretary of the General Conference, who will read you some information about the formation  of the Legal Committee. Madam, you have the floor.
32. The Secretary:   Thank you, Mr President. Just to recall that out of the nine commissions and committees of the General  Conference, only the Legal Committee is elected by the preceding General Conference. The members I shall now read  out to you were actually elected at the end of the 32nd session of the General Conference. And for those who have  forgotten who they are, I shall remind you of the following 21 names: Algeria, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bahamas,  Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Germany, Ghana, Haiti, India, Italy, Japan, Madagascar,  Morocco, Mauritania, Saint Lucia and United States of America. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٣٣ א א ،.א א א א א א، א א
(33) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you to the Secretary of the General Conference. As regards this matter specifically, please let me  remind you that in line with Rule 36, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the Legal Committee elects its own  Chairperson. I would now like to invite its members to a meeting at 5 p.m. in Room VI. I would like to mention that the  Chairperson of the Legal Committee is also a member of the General Committee of the General Conference that will, as I  have mentioned, hold its first session tomorrow at 9 a.m.  Request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO  Demande d’admission de la Palestine à l’UNESCO  Solicitud de admisión de Palestina en la UNESCO  Просьба о приеме Палестины в ЮНЕСКО  א א   要求接纳巴勒斯坦加入联合国教科文组织  א٩,١א א ٣٤ א ، א.א א א ، א ، א.٣٣/٢٤א א א א א א א א.א ،  .א
(34) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Let us move on now to item 9.1 of the agenda, regarding the request for admission of Palestine to  membership of UNESCO. The related document, which has been put before you for your examination, is document
33 C/24. In this context, I would like to give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board, for him to present to us  the Board’s recommendations in this matter. Your Excellency Ambassador Wrede, you have the floor.
35. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Thank you, Mr President. It will be a pleasure to serve under you from now on. Mr President, Mr Deputy,  Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Executive Board at its 172nd session considered the  request for the admission of Palestine to UNESCO, recalling its decisions at previous sessions. By 172 EX/Decision 47,  the Executive Board recommends to the General Conference at its 33rd session the adoption of a resolution which inter  alia expresses the hope that it will be able to consider this request favourably at its next session. Mr. President, in  presenting this draft resolution to the General Conference, and in the light of progress made so far on the peace process,  I take the liberty of expressing my profound hope that a lasting peace, which is the ultimate objective of all of us, will  not be only an ideal, but will become an everyday reality for all those who are involved in a just and comprehensive  settlement of the Palestine question. The General Conference might therefore wish, Mr President, to adopt this text in  the same heartening spirit of unanimity as it was adopted by the Executive Board. Thank you, Sir.   :א ٣٦ א א ، א ، א.א א ، א א א א א א א א ،٣٣/٢٤א א א א؟ א.א א
(36) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency the Ambassador, Chairman of the Executive Board. If there are no  objections, might I consider that the General Conference agrees with the draft resolution contained in document 33 C/24?  It appears that there is no objection. The General Conference has therefore adopted the resolution. It appears that the  Permanent Observer for Palestine is asking for the floor. In accordance with Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the  floor to the Permanent Observer for Palestine, for him to address us briefly. You have the floor.  אא ٣٧ א(א א א  ):א א א.א، א ، א א א א אא ،.א א א א א א א א א ، א א.א א ، ، אא א א ، א א א א א א ،.א א א א א אא א א ، א א. ، א א ، ،  .א
(37) Mr Abdelrazek (Permanent Observer for Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you Mr President. I would like first of all to congratulate you on your election as President of the
33rd session of the General Conference, and on the great trust that you have gained in the unanimity of all of the Member  States. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for what he mentioned regarding the Board’s  decision, and also for having mentioned that the Palestinian people is a people that exists, and that the State of Palestine  is a reality on the ground. Although the State has thus far not been declared officially, we hope that through your efforts  and those of all Member States, the coming session may be the last one at which Palestine’s joining the international  family is postponed, so that it can become an effective member, to take on with you the sorrows of this world. I would  also like to address my thanks to the Director-General, because he attaches great importance to Palestine and to the  Palestinian people in UNESCO’s programmes, and he works hard in order to bring peace to the region and in order for a  Palestinian State to be established effectively. As I said, we hope to meet you as a Member State at the next session.  Thank you.   :א ٣٨ א ، א.א א ،.א א ، א א א א אאא א  .א.א
(38) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency the Ambassador. I wish you every success. So if there is no request  to take the floor, then we consider that this item has been dealt with and that the General Conference has adopted the  decision of the Executive Board. Thank you.  Admission to the work of the General Conference of observers from international non-governmental  organizations other than those maintaining formal or operational relations with UNESCO, and  recommendations of the Executive Board thereon.  Admission aux travaux de la Conférence générale d’observateurs d’organisations internationales non  gouvernementales autres que celles entretenant des relations formelles et opérationnelles avec l’UNESCO :  recommandations du Conseil exécutif à ce sujet  Admisión en los trabajos de la Conferencia General de observadores de organizaciones internacionales no  gubernamentales que no sean las que mantienen relaciones oficiales con la UNESCO: recomendaciones del  Consejo Ejecutivo a este respecto  Допуск на сессию Генеральной конференции наблюдателей от других международных  неправительственных организаций, помимо тех, которые поддерживают официальные и рабочие  отношения с ЮНЕСКО, и рекомендации Исполнительного совета по этому вопросу  אא א ، ، א א א א א ،  א 接纳与联合国教科文组织保持密切正式关系和业务关系的非政府国际组织以外的非政府组织观察员列席大会会 议和执行局就此问题的建议   :א ٣٩ א אא١,٧א א ،א.א א  .א
(39) The President (translation from the Arabic):  We move now to item 1.7 regarding the admission of observers from non-governmental organizations.  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, you have the floor.
40. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Mr President, Deputy Director-General, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, over the past years  non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have been widely and explicitly recognized on the entire United Nations  scene, and indeed, we are all aware today more than ever, that the presence of civil society along with the non- governmental community is a positive reality in the conduct of international cooperation for development for  maintaining peace and stability. The participation of international non-governmental organizations maintaining  operational relations with UNESCO, of organizations maintaining relations with UNESCO under the “Directives  concerning UNESCO’s relations with foundations and similar institutions” and of organizations not having official  relations with UNESCO is governed by Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. This rule stipulates  that the General Conference, on the recommendation of the Board and by a two-thirds majority of Members present and  voting, may admit as observers at specified sessions of the Conference or of its commissions representatives of  international non-governmental or semi-governmental organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, the Executive Board, in
125 EX/Decision 6.2, established the procedures governing requests from NGOs, thus drawing a distinction between,  on the one hand, NGOs having operational relations with UNESCO, and on the other hand the aforementioned  foundations and similar institutions maintaining formal relations and other international organizations. At its 172nd  session, the Executive Board examined the requests received from 58 non-governmental organizations maintaining such  operational relations, six foundations maintaining formal relations with UNESCO, and four international non- governmental organizations not maintaining official relations with UNESCO. They are all listed in the Annex to  document 33 C/10. Mr President, the Executive Board recommends that these organizations be invited to participate in  this 33rd session of the General Conference as observers in the debates on the agenda items that relate to their fields of  competence. Thank you Mr President.   :א ٤١ א ، אא.א ،.א א א אא א אא א.א א.א ،  .א.א
(41) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency the Ambassador. Let me congratulate you again for this tremendous  effort. If there are no objections, we may consider that the General Conference has approved the proposal. Let us move  now to the report of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. Your Excellency Ambassador Najman, you have the  floor.  Report of the Credentials Committee   Rapport du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Informe del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Доклад Комитета по проверке полномочий  א 全权证书委员会报告
42.1 M. Najman (Serbie-et-Monténégro) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, à sa première séance plénière tenue ce matin, lundi
3 octobre, la Conférence générale de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture a,  conformément aux articles 26 et 32 de son Règlement intérieur, constitué pour sa 33e session un Comité de vérification  des pouvoirs composé des États membres suivants : Afrique du Sud, Belgique, El Salvador, Haïti, Lituanie, Qatar,  République démocratique populaire lao, Sénégal, Serbie-et-Monténégro. Le Comité de vérification des pouvoirs a tenu  sa première séance à 12 heures ce même jour. Le Comité m’a élu à sa présidence. À ma demande, le Conseiller  juridique a informé le Comité des critères à appliquer pour décider de la validité des pouvoirs présentés aux termes de  l’article 23 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Cet article dispose que les pouvoirs des délégués et des  suppléants émanent soit du Chef de l’État ou du gouvernement, soit du Ministre des affaires étrangères ou d’un autre  ministre autorisé par le Ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer des pleins pouvoirs. Le Conseiller juridique a  également expliqué la signification de l’expression « pouvoirs provisoires » utilisée par le Secrétariat, et ce qu’elle  impliquait.
42.2 Le Secrétariat a ensuite informé le Comité de l’état des pouvoirs qu’il avait reçus jusqu’alors. Le Comité a  conclu que les pouvoirs des États membres suivants avaient été émis en conformité avec l’article 23 du Règlement  intérieur de la Conférence générale, c’est-à-dire qu’ils émanaient soit du Chef de l’État ou du gouvernement, soit du  Ministre des affaires étrangères ou d’un autre ministre autorisé par le Ministre des affaires étrangères à délivrer les  pleins pouvoirs. Il a en conséquence considéré que les délégations des États membres dont la liste va s’afficher sur
31  l’écran de la salle de réunion étaient dûment accréditées. Dans cette catégorie nous avons identifié un total de 138 États  membres : Afghanistan, Afrique du Sud, Allemagne, Andorre, Arabie saoudite, Australie, Autriche, Azerbaïdjan,  Bahamas, Bahreïn (Royaume de), Bangladesh, Barbade, Bélarus, Belgique, Belize, Bénin, Bhoutan, Bolivie, Bosnie- Herzégovine, Botswana, Brésil, Brunéi Darussalam, Bulgarie, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodge, Cameroun, Canada,  Chine, Chypre, Colombie, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Danemark, Égypte, Érythrée, Espagne, Estonie, Éthiopie,  ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine, Fédération de Russie, Fidji, Finlande, France, Gabon, Gambie, Géorgie,  Ghana, Grèce, Grenade, Guinée équatoriale, Guyana, Îles Salomon, Inde, Indonésie, Iraq, Iran (République islamique d’),  Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie, Japon, Jordanie, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Koweït, Lesotho, Lettonie, Liban, Lituanie,  Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaisie, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritanie, Mexique, Monaco, Mongolie, Mozambique,  Myanmar, Namibie, Nauru, Népal, Nicaragua, Niger, Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Oman, Ouganda, Pakistan, Palaos  (les), Panama, Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée, Paraguay, Philippines, Pologne, Portugal, Qatar, République arabe syrienne,  République centrafricaine, République de Corée, République de Moldova, République démocratique populaire lao,  République populaire démocratique de Corée, République tchèque, République-Unie de Tanzanie, Roumanie, Saint- Kitts-et-Nevis, Saint-Marin, Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines, Sainte-Lucie, Samoa, Sénégal, Serbie-et-Monténégro,  Seychelles, Slovaquie, Sri Lanka, Suède, Suisse, Suriname, Swaziland, Tadjikistan, Togo, Tonga, Trinité-et-Tobago,  Tunisie, Turkménistan, Turquie, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yémen, Zambie, Zimbabwe.
42.3  Le Comité recommande que les délégations des États membres susmentionnés soient autorisées à participer  aux travaux de la 33e session de la Conférence générale.
42.4 Les délégations des États membres dont les noms suivent ont présenté des pouvoirs sous forme de notes,  lettres ou autres documents émanant d’un ministre autre que le ministre des affaires étrangères et non autorisé à cet effet  par ce dernier, ou d’un chef d’une mission diplomatique, d’un délégué permanent auprès de l’UNESCO ou d’un haut  fonctionnaire du gouvernement. Au total 43 États membres tombent dans cette catégorie : Albanie, Algérie, Angola,  Argentine, Arménie, Cap-Vert, Chili, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatie, Djibouti, El Salvador, Émirats Arabes Unis, Équateur,  États-Unis d'Amérique, Guatemala, Guinée, Guinée-Bissau, Haïti, Honduras, Hongrie, Jamahiriya arabe libyenne,  Jamaïque, Kiribati, Libéria, Maurice, Maroc, Nigéria, Ouzbékistan, Pays-Bas, Pérou, République démocratique du  Congo, République dominicaine, Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d’Irlande du Nord, Rwanda, Sao Tomé-et- Principe, Sierra Leone, Slovénie, Somalie, Soudan, Tchad, Thaïlande, Ukraine, Uruguay. Le Comité propose que ces  notes, lettres et autres documents soient acceptés à titre de pouvoirs provisoires des délégations des États membres sous  réserve qu’elles présentent ultérieurement des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme, et que, dans l’intervalle, ces délégations  soient autorisées à participer aux travaux de la 33e session de la Conférence générale.
42.5 Des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont été présentés par les délégations de deux États membres associés :  les Antilles néerlandaises et les îles Vierges britanniques.
42.6 Le Comité a en outre reçu les pouvoirs en bonne et due forme établis au nom des délégations d’observateurs  du Saint-Siège et de Singapour, ainsi que des pouvoirs provisoires établis au nom de la délégation de la Palestine,  observateur. Le Comité propose que ces pouvoirs soient également acceptés.
42.7 J’appelle votre attention sur le fait que les délégations des États membres dont les noms suivent n’ont pas  encore présenté de pouvoirs d’aucune sorte ; il s’agit au total de 10 États membres : Antigua-et-Barbuda, Comores,  Dominique, Îles Cook, Îles Marshall, Kirghizistan, Malte, Micronésie, Nioué, Timor-Leste. Les délégations des  Membres associés dont les noms suivent n’ont pas encore présenté de pouvoirs : Aruba, îles Caïmanes, Macao (Chine),  Tokélaou. La délégation d’un observateur, le Liechtenstein, n’a pas encore présenté de pouvoirs. Monsieur le Président,  je vous prie de bien vouloir demander à la Conférence générale d’approuver le premier rapport du Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs. Je vous remercie.   :א ٤٣ א ، א ، א.א א א א א.א א א א א א .א א ، ؟  .א
(43) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency Ambassador Najman, Chairperson of the Credentials Committee. I  would like to compliment you on the excellent work that you and your Committee have carried out. I would now like to  ask the General Conference if there are any comments on the report on the part of the Member States. Spain? You have  the floor.
(44) Sr. Ridao Domínguez (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, the screen is so high I could not see what was on it.  Could I ask the Chairperson of the Nominations Committee to check which list the name of my country appears on?  Many thanks.
45. M. Najman (Serbie-et-Monténégro) (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs) :  Le nom de votre pays figure dans la première liste.   :א ٤٦ ،.א א א ، ، ؟ א א.א ،.
(46) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Are there any other comments? If there are no other comments then before I close the meeting  this afternoon, I would like to ask the Secretary of the General Conference to present any comments or observations.  Ms Møller, you have the floor.  Announcements  Annonces  Anuncios  Информационные сообщения    通告
47. The Secretary:  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make three short announcements. First of all, on behalf of the  Africa group, I should tell you that there will be a meeting of the Africa group immediately after this meeting in Room  XII to which I have invited the heads of the delegations plus three collaborators. The second announcement is, as most  of you are aware, that Oman will treat us to a concert tonight by the Royal Omani Philharmonic Orchestra, which will  take place in this room. You are kindly requested exceptionally to take your documents with you when you leave the  room shortly. Normally you can safely leave your documents at your places but since the seats will be occupied by the  general public, including yourselves if you so wish, you are kindly requested to take all your documents with you when  you leave the room tonight and bring them back tomorrow morning. That would make life very much easier for those  who have to arrange the room for the concert tonight. One final observation: most of you are aware that there may be a  strike in the French transportation system tomorrow, Tuesday 4 October. We, in the Secretariat will do our very best to  get everybody here on time, but I ask you to bear with us if a few people cannot make it. We will try to cover as best we  can. Please bear with us and, for your own peace of mind, take all this into consideration when you calculate your travel  time to UNESCO tomorrow morning. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٤٨  .א
(48) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you.   The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h 50  Se levanta la sesión a las 16.50  Заседание закрывается в 16.50  א א٤,٥٠א   会议于 16 时 50 分结束