186  Report by the President on the General Committee meeting  Rapport du Président sur la réunion du Bureau  Informe del Presidente sobre la reunión del Comité General  Доклад председателя о заседании Президиума Генеральной конференции  א א אא   总务委员会主席的报告   :א ١,١ א א ،.א א ، ،.א א א א א א א א א ، א א א א א א.א א א א  .א
(1.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I  should like to bid you welcome this lovely morning, and apologize for the one-hour delay in starting our meeting this  morning, which is due to the General Committee slightly extending its discussion to examine some new items which  were included this morning on its agenda. I shall ask the Secretary of the General Conference to tell you what happened  this morning in the General Committee meeting.  (The President continues in English.)
1.2 You have the floor, Madam.
2. The Secretary:    Thank you, Mr President. There are two recommendations from the General Committee this morning for the  plenary. One is to inscribe on the agenda for the General Conference a new item entitled “The preparation of a draft  recommendation on the definition and recognition of the profession of conference interpreter”. However, before you  take a decision on that recommendation, I should like to ask, with your permission, Mr President, my colleague the  Legal Adviser to give his opinion on this proposal, since there exist certain rules and regulations on the handling of  draft recommendations.   :א ٣ א א א א א א א ، א א א ،.א א א א א  .א
(3) The President (translation from the Arabic):  I shall now give the floor to the Legal Adviser to explain the first item concerning the proposal submitted this  morning about conference interpreters. I look forward to an explanation of the procedure concerning this item, please go  ahead.
4. The Legal Adviser:  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the item proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the General  Conference relates to the preparation of a draft recommendation on the definition and recognition of the profession of  conference interpreter. Recommendations and conventions are the main standard-setting instruments of UNESCO,  provided for in the Constitution of the Organization. The Organization has also adopted Rules of Procedure concerning  recommendations and conventions and the manner in which they should be initiated: they should first be inscribed in  the agenda of the General Conference and then elaborated and adopted by the General Conference. I would be remiss in  my duty as Legal Adviser to the General Conference if I were not to bring to the attention of the General Conference,  before it took a decision on the inclusion of this item in its agenda, Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure concerning  recommendations and international conventions. That article provides that “no new proposal for an international  convention or a recommendation shall be included in the provisional agenda of the General Conference” unless such a  proposal “is accompanied by a preliminary study of the technical and legal aspects of the problem under consideration”  and, secondly, “unless it has first been examined by the Executive Board at least ninety days before the opening of the  session of the General Conference”. These are the two conditions laid down explicitly and clearly in the Rules of  Procedure concerning recommendations to Member States with respect to the inclusion of new items in the agenda of  the General Conference for the elaboration of new recommendations. I wanted to bring this to your attention before you  take a decision on the matter so that you can fully take them into account. Of course, the General Conference is  sovereign and can take whatever decisions it wants to take, but it should take its decisions in an informed manner, and  that was my concern, Mr President. Thank you very much.
(5) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Legal Adviser. I am certain that the Conference will naturally observe on this subject the legal  procedure that we are supposed to follow in all our work. I therefore suggest that we postpone consideration of this item,  and transmit it to the Executive Board to carry out a full study of the matter which will then be transmitted normally to  the General Conference at its next session. Are there any objections to postponing this matter and its being transmitted to  the Executive Board, as described by the Legal Adviser? There are no objections, so I take it that the General Conference  has so decided. I give the floor once more to the Secretary to clarify the other points, thank you.
6. The Secretary:  Thank you, Mr President. The second recommendation that the General Committee made this morning for  the plenary is to request the Administrative Commission to schedule our presentations for the five candidate countries  that have proposed their candidates for the post of External Auditor for UNESCO for the years 2006 to 2011. The  recommendation to the plenary is that you entrust to the Chairpersons of the Administrative Commission and the  Nominations Committee, together with the President of the General Conference and these five countries – which are  Bangladesh, France, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom – the task of consulting each other to see how such  presentations can best be scheduled during the General Conference so as to facilitate the final selection of the External  Auditor. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٧ א א אא، א א א א א א for presentation only).(، א א א ، א א א א ، א ، א א א ،.א א ؟ א א א א א ،.א. א  .א
(7) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, I should like to remind you that the General Committee agreed to entrust the Administrative  Commission with receiving candidates for this important post for the presentations only. Then, as the Secretary described,  a joint consultation will take place with the five candidate States, and the Chairperson of the Administrative Commission  on preferences as to the best way to hold the meetings in implementation of this proposal. So, are there any objections to  this suggestion? It seems that you are prepared to reach rapid agreement, thank you for that. It is so decided. New  Zealand is asking for the floor, you have the floor.
8. Ms Austin (New Zealand):  Mr President, that is an extremely noble idea. It would be very helpful to all of us if notification of when  those presentations were going to take place were put in the daily bulletin. Thank you.   :א ٩ א.א א  .א
(9) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Secretary of the General Conference, you have the floor.
10. The Secretary:  We will confirm that as soon as the consultations have taken place, but for the time being we are aiming for  Thursday 13 October in Paris. While I have the floor, Mr President, may I just take the opportunity to tell you that the  interpreters have kindly agreed to remain with us until 1.30 p.m. so we can hopefully complete our list of speakers. We  do apologize to those who will speak a little late in the morning, but we prefer to try to get through as much of the list as  we can, and should there be any who have not spoken by 1.30 p.m., we would have to start with them this afternoon.  With these few words, Mr President, I think we can now resume the general debate. Thank you.   :א ١١ א.א ،.א א א ، א א אא ، א א א  .א
(11) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. For my part, I am sure that you will take our delay into account. I think that we will be able to  complete our work in the time allotted, that is, by 1 p.m., with the understanding and cooperation you have shown since  the beginning of this session. Thank you again.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  א )(א   总政策辩论（续）   :א ١٢,١ אא ، א א א א א،  .א
(12.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  I call upon the honourable Dr Bosèngkham Vongdara, Minister of Education in the Lao People’s Democratic  Republic, to continue the debate.  (The President continues in English)
12.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
13.1 M. Vongdara (République démocratique populaire Lao) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Excellences, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-moi tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, de vous  féliciter chaleureusement au nom de mon gouvernement pour votre brillante élection. Je suis convaincu que vous saurez  mettre votre sagesse et votre longue expérience au service des idéaux de l’UNESCO et que, sous votre conduite,  l’Organisation pourra relever les défis qui l’attendent et continuera d’œuvrer pour la paix dans le monde. Votre discours  d’acceptation et le message qu’il contient confirment votre volonté et la détermination de votre pays d’insuffler à  l’UNESCO dynamisme et crédibilité. L’Organisation s’est vu attribuer la mission « d’élever dans l’esprit des  hommes … les défenses de la paix » par l’éducation, la science, la culture et la communication. En tant qu’État  membre, notre devoir est de contribuer à préparer l’Organisation à faire face aux défis nouveaux, sans oublier les  problèmes brûlants de l’heure. Pour ce faire, l’Organisation doit disposer des moyens nécessaires pour accomplir sa  noble mission.
13.2 Au cours de la présente session, nous sommes appelés à examiner les activités de la dernière phase de la  Stratégie à moyen terme. Et c’est avec une grande satisfaction que nous constatons que l’éducation reste la priorité des  priorités dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 2006-2007. En ce qui concerne le 33 C/5, nous approuvons le  budget établi par le Directeur général et nous constatons que la spécificité de l’Organisation en tant qu’institution  spécialisée du système, a été préservée. Comme chacun sait, l’UNESCO a un mandat mondial qui ne trouve sa pleine  justification que si les objectifs et les politiques qu’elle prône à l’échelle planétaire se traduisent par des actions  concrètes au niveau local. L’idéal serait que son action soit plus percutante, mieux ciblée sur les priorités principales,  afin qu’elle inspire la substance même des interventions de toutes les institutions du système et des États membres.
13.3 Nous serons également appelés à examiner et à approuver une série de textes normatifs, conformément aux  demandes formulées lors de la 32e session, notamment le projet de Convention sur la protection de la diversité des  contenus culturels et des expressions artistiques. Notre délégation, avec celles des autres États membres, a participé aux  réunions intergouvernementales d’experts organisées par le Secrétariat et elle approuve sans réserve le projet qui est  proposé par la troisième conférence d’experts qui s’est tenue en juin dernier.
13.4 Monsieur le Président, durant le biennum 2004-2005, pour la mise en œuvre du Plan national d’éducation  pour tous, notre pays a choisi une approche sectorielle engageant tout le pays et les donateurs autour de l’objectif  fondamental d’éducation pour tous. Notre stratégie de développement est conçue pour assurer une croissance pérenne,  dans l’équité. La réduction de la pauvreté en constitue donc la priorité fondamentale. Avec l’agriculture, la santé et les  infrastructures, l’éducation constitue l’un des quatre piliers de cette stratégie. Les actions initiées dans le cadre du  programme Éducation pour tous forment par conséquent l’une des décisions stratégiques majeures visant à atteindre cet  objectif. Depuis 2003, malgré des difficultés de divers ordres, le secteur de l’éducation a continué de progresser et a fait  l’objet d’une attention particulière de notre gouvernement. Aussi avons-nous décidé d’augmenter le budget alloué à  l’éducation, lequel est passé de 10,8 % en 2003-2004 à 11,6 % en 2004-2005. Pour améliorer l’accès à l’éducation de  base, et la qualité de l’éducation, le Ministère de l’éducation, avec l’aide de pays amis, des organisations internationales,  des organisations non gouvernementales et des institutions financières internationales, poursuit la mise en œuvre de  grands projets d’éducation de base visant à atteindre les objectifs d’éducation pour tous. Nos priorités concernent en  particulier l’enseignement primaire, l’éducation des adultes, l’amélioration de la qualité de l’éducation dans son  ensemble ainsi que la formation et le perfectionnement des enseignants, sans négliger pour autant l’enseignement
189  technique et professionnel et l’enseignement supérieur et tout en respectant les orientations et le cadre d’un  développement sectoriel équilibré. Je tiens à remercier pour leur aide précieuse les organisations internationales telles  que l’UNESCO et les pays amis ; mais les défis sont immenses et les objectifs d’éducation de base pour tous d’ici à
2015 demandent des efforts supplémentaires. Au demeurant, notre gouvernement s’est résolument engagé à atteindre  les Objectifs du Millénaire.
13.5 Monsieur le Président, le débat institutionnel en cours au sein de l’ONU au sujet de la réforme de l’institution  concerne et intéresse également notre Organisation. À ce propos, n’avons-nous pas, à maintes reprises, évoqué tant au  Conseil exécutif qu’à la Conférence générale l’idée d’une relecture de notre Acte constitutif ? Une réflexion s’impose  alors sur l’ensemble des institutions créées depuis 1945. Faut-il opter pour un système idéal, au risque d’une application  encore plus réduite du droit international, ou au contraire pour un réalisme accru de nature à décourager toute possibilité  de réforme ? La communauté internationale elle-même demeure divisée. Certes, les États membres sont tombés  d’accord sur quelques grands principes - non-recours à la force, droits humains, coopération économique - mais leurs  interprétations diffèrent. C’est précisément pour cette raison qu’ils entendent toujours subordonner le recours à la force  à la supervision d’un organe central apte à arbitrer entre leurs conceptions divergentes de ce qu’est une juste cause. Tant  qu’il n’existera pas un organisme politique unique capable de concevoir et de faire appliquer des règles juridiques qui  reposent sur une cohésion idéologique forte, le droit international restera dépendant de rapports de force conjoncturels,  dans son élaboration comme dans son application. Le droit international constitue avant tout un langage commun dont il  y a lieu d’espérer, et c’est notre vœu le plus cher, qu’il permettra d’empêcher les guerres, de lutter contre le terrorisme  et de maintenir la paix.
13.6 Pour terminer, Monsieur le Président, notre délégation, qui a appuyé la candidature de M. Koïchiro Matsuura  à un second mandat de Directeur général de l’UNESCO, se félicite que le Conseil exécutif, à sa 172e session, ait  recommandé à la Conférence générale de reconduire le mandat de M. Koïchiro Matsuura. Nous lui adressons tous nos  vœux de pleine réussite dans sa noble et délicate mission et l’assurons de notre indéfectible soutien. Merci de votre  attention.   :א ١٤,١ א א א ، א ، א.א א א א ،.
(14.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your interesting address, and I must express appreciation for  your support and encouraging congratulations. I now give the floor to Her Excellency Kate Kainja-Kaluluma, Minister of  Education of Malawi.  (The President continues in English)
14.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
15.1 Ms Kainja-Kaluluma (Malawi):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads of  delegations, ladies and gentlemen, the Malawi delegation brings greetings and good wishes to the conference from the  President of the Republic of Malawi, Dr Bingu wa Mutharika and the people of Malawi. Allow me, Mr President, to  join distinguished colleagues to congratulate you on your election as the President of the UNESCO General Conference  at its 33rd session. Also allow me to congratulate Mr Koïchiro Matsuura on his nomination by the Executive Board as  the candidate for the post of Director-General. I have every hope that the outcome of the 12 November event will be  pleasing to us all and a source of renewed commitment to UNESCO’s reform process.
15.2 Mr President, the Malawi delegation has been following the developments at UNESCO with keen interest.  We are very satisfied with the substantial progress made in the reform process, particularly the efforts to ensure  UNESCO’s visibility in Member States through closer collaboration among UNESCO, its field and cluster offices and  the National Commissions. This collaboration, which gives UNESCO its comparative advantage when dealing with  Member States on programme-related matters, should be the benchmark for the preparation of the Medium-Term  Strategy for 2008-2013. Regarding the Draft Programme and Budget (33 C/5), the Malawi delegation welcomes the  improvements made in the presentation of programme activities, especially the specific references to the Millennium  Development Goals (MDGs) and other international frameworks. This will ensure that UNESCO continues to promote  and protect its main responsibility for its core mandate. For example, we agree with the Director-General’s observation  that the world has already failed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, particularly the third one: “eliminate  gender disparity in primary and secondary education preferably by 2005.” He says, “this is a disturbing situation which  requires urgent, sustained and targeted action, especially if the more ambitious goal of gender equality in all levels of  education is also to be attained by 2015”. I would therefore like to remind this distinguished gathering that this was the  reason why, following the Pan-African Conference on the Education of Girls, held in Ouagadougou in 1993, we, the  African Ministers of Education, resolved to build a Regional Centre for Guidance, Counselling and Youth Development  for Africa, the main mandate of which is to address the psycho-social problems that prevent boys and girls attending
190  school. In this connection, I will be failing in my duty, Mr President, if I do not publicly thank the Director-General  personally, and the Governments of Finland, Denmark, Italy, Japan and Germany for making substantial contributions  towards the programmes of the Centre. I am greatly indebted to my colleagues, the distinguished African Ministers of  Education who, between 1994 and 2005, kept the dream alive while some of us were on sabbatical. One of the first  things I did when reappointed Minister of Education earlier this year was to make sure that the Centre’s building is  completed and ready for use. My delegation therefore fully supports the Director-General’s intention to allocate  adequate resources to programme activities to promote gender equality in education and also to three core initiatives,  namely the Literacy Initiative for Empowerment (LIFE), the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa, and the  Global Initiative on HIV/AIDS and Education (EDUCAIDS). A close synergy between these activities and the Centre’s  programme will ensure that the Centre plays its rightful role in promoting EFA goals and also in the fight against the  HIV/AIDS pandemic which is threatening to reverse all EFA gains made so far.
15.3 In the natural sciences, my delegation supports the principal priority of water and associated ecosystems.  Mr President, you are probably aware that most of southern Africa is currently facing famine as a result of drought. In  Malawi we have come to the conclusion that the only way out of the cyclical hunger situation is rational utilization of  our water resources and not to rely solely on rain-fed agriculture. In this connection, we ask UNESCO to continue its  support to the SIMDAS project and the UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education. However, we would like to appeal  to the Director-General to ensure that even the cluster offices – the Harare Office, for example – are provided with at  least one programme specialist in the area of science to ensure a prompt response to Member States’ needs. The same  appeal can be made for the social and human sciences, the visible impact of which is urgently required at country level.
15.4 Mr President, on the subject of culture, my delegation could not agree more with the Executive Board’s  observation that culture is an integral part of UNESCO’s core mandate. In this connection the principal priority of  promoting cultural diversity with equal respect for, and balance between, the tangible and intangible heritage, is very  dear to our hearts. I am saying this, Mr President, because it is common knowledge that in our part of the world  intangible heritage predominates, but its preservation and perpetuation is very fragile and uncertain.
15.5 Mr President, it has been acknowledged from time immemorial that knowledge is power. For us to empower  our people they need access to information. However, for this to happen all efforts have to be made to bridge the digital  divide. Transfer of knowledge, particularly on the application and uses of ICTs would reap great benefits for all. For  example, I started my speech by saying that the realization of EFA goals is being greatly compromised by, among other  things, lack of teaching and learning materials. However, Mr President, Mr Director-General, various experimental  projects – notably the Virtual Institute for Higher Education in Africa, being run by the UNESCO Harare cluster office  in collaboration with the Nigeria Universities Commission – are demonstrating that much can be accomplished in terms  of training of personnel, developing teaching and learning materials, virtual libraries and virtual laboratories. All this is  being done at a fraction of the cost of conventional modes of teaching and learning. My delegation would therefore  request the Director-General to intensify his efforts concerning the Open and Distance Learning Knowledge Base.
15.6 Mr President, my speech would not be complete if I did not touch on the Participation Programme and the  UNESCO institutes. We would like to reiterate that the Participation Programme ensures the visibility of UNESCO in  Member States. It also ensures solidarity between and among Member States when certain activities are done jointly.  We therefore request the Director-General to maintain the same funding levels as before. As for the UNESCO institutes,  my delegation would like to make a special appeal for the UNESCO Institute for Statistics and the UNESCO  International Institute for Educational Planning to be well resourced, so that they may contribute effectively to  monitoring the implementation of the EFA goals. Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, I thank  you for your attention.    :א ١٦,١ א  א ، א א.א، א א א.א א א א  .א
(16.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, your appeal to the Conference has been heard. Thank you also for your  instructive statement and your kind congratulations. I now give the floor to the honourable Nangolo Mbumba, Minister of  Education of Namibia.  (The President continues in English)
16.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
17.1 Mr Mbumba (Namibia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  honourable Ministers and heads of delegation, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I, on behalf of the  Namibian delegation, join the previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election. We would also  like to congratulate the Director-General and his staff for the well-prepared Draft Programme and Budget, which
191  outlines the priorities of UNESCO for the next biennium and beyond. As we celebrate the 60th anniversary of our  Organization, the original purpose of UNESCO – namely “to contribute to peace and security by promoting  collaboration among nations through education, science and culture” – remains as relevant today as it was 60 years ago  when the Organization was founded.
17.2 Mr President, quality education for all (EFA) has been – and remains – the preoccupation of the Namibian  Government, attracting 20% of the national budget. Against this background, Namibia has developed a comprehensive  Education and Training Sector Improvement Programme (ETSIP) in order to address issues of access, quality and  relevance, as well as to ensure that the education and training sector makes its contribution to improved economic  growth as envisioned in our Vision 2030 project. The ETSIP Programme covers every level of education from early  childhood development to higher education. Furthermore, Namibia has formed the Namibia National Coalition on the  United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-2012) to promote lifelong learning. The Namibian Government has also recently  approved the ICT Policy for Education, which is aimed at integrating ICTs into the education and training system.  These various initiatives aim to contribute to the achievement of the six EFA goals in a holistic manner, with our efforts  not confined to primary education alone. We therefore urge the Director-General to maintain the momentum of EFA.  Our delegation further supports the principal priorities for education, namely basic education for all, HIV/AIDS  prevention education and teacher training in sub-Saharan Africa.
17.3 Concerning the UNESCO institutes, the Namibian delegation would like to express its satisfaction with the  remarkable work of the International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) in building capacity in Member States, in  particular its Annual Training Programme in Educational Planning and Administration, and its support for the initiatives  of the Southern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ). We have also had fruitful  collaboration with the UNESCO Institute for Education in Hamburg. We would like to urge the Director-General to  ensure that the UNESCO institutes have adequate resources to continue with their work.
17.4 Mr President, in the Science Sector, Namibia believes that more efforts are needed in the promotion of  science, technology, innovation and mathematics to enhance access to scientific and technical disciplines. As  industrialized countries move towards knowledge-based economies, the ability to create, to adapt and to use knowledge  for economic and social development becomes the key determinant for competitiveness and cooperation. Similarly,  Namibia hopes that the International Basic Sciences Programme will help strengthen the capacities of Member States in  the basic sciences as well as in science and technology education. We would also like to thank UNESCO for its support  in translating our science policy into development programmes. The training of teachers in science and mathematics is a  most urgent priority for Namibia. Namibia welcomes and supports the designation of water and associated ecosystems  as principal priority for the natural sciences. Namibia, being one of the driest countries in sub-Saharan Africa, sees the  initiatives of the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) as vital to her development. We therefore commend  UNESCO for the excellent job it is doing in the water sector, and call on the Organization to expand its activities in this  programme.
17.5 Concerning culture, Namibia appreciates UNESCO’s efforts to promote cultural diversity and artistic  expressions. We therefore call upon the General Conference to adopt the draft convention on the protection and the  promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. We further encourage the Director-General to continue providing  financial and technical assistance to Member States for the implementation of the World Heritage Convention and the  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Furthermore, Namibia attaches great importance to  cultural industry development. We would therefore appreciate assistance from UNESCO to help develop a policy  framework for the establishment of cultural industries.
17.6 On communication and information, Namibia applauds the priority given to access to information for all as  well as to freedom of expression. We therefore request that UNESCO assist Member States in their efforts to develop  information structures such as multimedia centres and libraries. The continuous training of media professionals is in our  view fundamental to the promotion of standards and to the subsequent contribution of media professionals to good  governance and accountability.
17.7 On the reform process, Namibia supports the reform agenda and commends the Director-General for the  achievements thus far. We wish to emphasize, however, that the field offices need adequate resources, including senior  staff, in order to achieve the fundamental objective of the reform process, namely to bring UNESCO closer to the  Member States.
17.8 Mr President, Namibia supports the nomination of His Excellency Mr Matsuura as Director-General of  UNESCO for a second term of office.
17.9 Finally, Namibia believes that the most important cultural component is peace; that the most useful lesson in  education is tolerance; and that the principal aim of scientific research is to make human life worth living. I thank you.
(19.1) Ms Al Mahmoud (Qatar) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the General Conference, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads and members of delegation, ladies and gentlemen,  may the peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you. Allow me to begin my address by presenting our most  sincere compliments, on my own behalf and on behalf of the delegation of Qatar, to his Excellency the President of the  General Conference on the occasion of his election to lead this great international gathering. I wish him every possible  success in directing the proceedings of this session. I should also like to express my thanks to and appreciation for his  Excellency the Director-General of UNESCO and to the members of the secretariat for all of their work towards  achieving the goals of UNESCO.
(19.2) Distinguished audience, what makes this gathering special is the international conditions in which it is being  held. These conditions reflect the international community’s will to find solutions to the most important issues facing  humanity at the turn of the third millennium. Only a few weeks ago, the world’s leaders and Heads of State met in New  York to examine what had been achieved in the light of the goals they had adopted at the beginning of the millennium.  As we know, these goals include achieving basic education for all (EFA), as well as eliminating the gender divide in  primary and secondary education by the end of 2015. A detailed look at our present agenda shows that we are still  repeating the same arguments that set the scene at the onset of the millennium. Years have passed since the international  community made these pledges, and the scientific and technological achievements of many States have allowed them to  make astonishing progress in every domain, absorbing and benefiting from new knowledge. But despite all of this, many  world States face tragic conditions when it comes to making education widely available. Basic education remains beyond  the reach of millions of children, and millions of people are unable to read and write. The challenge is a serious one, and  it calls for all of the partners involved in education, and all governments, organizations and civil society institutions to  cooperate. We in Qatar are fully aware of our duty as human beings towards the peoples of the world. A few months ago,  our young country hosted the Second South Summit of the Group of 77 and China; our leadership rightly believes in the  importance of standing alongside the peoples of these States and helping them. His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa  Al Thani, our country’s dearly respected Emir – may God preserve him – crowned the Summit with his initiative to set  up a fund for supporting development projects in those States. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Qatar believe that to achieve  the objectives of sustainable development, we must put in place basic preconditions so that society can engage in  designing broad policies. Building the knowledge society requires a structural development of the education system. To  this end, the participation of society is fundamental. We are convinced that the right to education, and to quality  education, is among the most basic human rights. Qatar has adopted an initiative entitled “Education for a New Era.” The  aim is to strengthen our principles, values and national priorities, and to embrace the principles of independence, mutual  consultation, diversity and choice. This initiative also encourages inventiveness and creativity, fostering the concept of  social partnership. We hope to reap the fruits of this work in the form of an efficient and inventive education system.
(19.3) We must be proactive, creating opportunities for a dialogue geared at making policies and strategies converge.  It is in this context that Qatar supported the EFA plan, and has undertaken to organize the proceedings of the regional  EFA conference at a subsequent time in 2007. This approach forms a part of initiatives by Her Highness Sheikha Moza  bint Nasser al-Misnad, consort of His Highness the Emir of this country, to lay out an authoritative framework for  dialogue to link education and development in the Arab world. Her Highness is also working to institutionalize  international efforts to integrate the family into the process of development, through the foundation of the Doha  International Institute for Family and Development Studies. For all these reasons, we believe that what is required of us is
194  not so much to adopt the principles of EFA – which constitute a space for global consensus – as to reflect on ways to  implement the mechanisms that will make those principles a reality. We place our hope in this distinguished Organization  to take steps towards realizing the achievements we all wish for. We hope to see it empower the relevant mechanisms,  surmount difficulties, raise the level of commitment among States, and further their progress. We should like to point out  here that Qatar is undergoing a process of development that extends to every domain. We have come a great distance  towards realizing the Millennium Development Goals, as well as those of the World Declaration on Education for All of
2000. The rate of school attendance has risen, reaching 96% in 2003, whereas our illiteracy rate shrank to 9%. As regards  gender equality and empowering women, the proportion of girls attending school is now superior at every level to that of  boys. The State has put forward numerous programmes for economic and financial support and relief. These aim to  improve the quality of family life, to give a boost to economic development, and to ensure that education and health  continue to be funded without being affected by economic factors. His Highness the Emir, may God preserve him, has set  aside an endowment fund to support education and health.
(19.4) Qatar is striving to create a global partnership for development. It is an effective member of the United  Nations and of the other international bodies and organizations. We wish to congratulate UNESCO for its continued  support of programmes related to protecting and safeguarding cultural heritage around the world and to building  capacities for its conservation. In so doing, UNESCO can give body to the human intellect and preserve national identity.  Starting from this principle, Qatar has taken an interest in heritage, putting in place new legislation and organizations to  preserve the national and human heritage. It has held several conventions and enacted projects. Foremost among these is  a series of museums devoted to various topics. There is also the Cultural Assembly project and the Cultural Quarter  project, which includes a number of theatres and cultural and social activities. The State has shown a great interest in  energizing the cultural movement by means of exhibitions and festivals. It has also awarded prizes, both as incentives and  as signs of respect, to honour and encourage creative people in every domain. Many conferences have been held aiming  to encourage the dialogue of civilizations and cultures, starting from our leadership’s awareness of how important it is to  help different societies to understand and draw closer to one another. In so doing, we can bring about opportunities for  them to live together peacefully, opportunities for respect and tolerance between the peoples of the world. Distinguished  audience, I should not omit to mention Qatar’s close attention to youth and sport. Qatar has organized many  championships and taken part in regional and international competitions. We are keen to be active in this domain on a  global level; Qatar is preparing to host the Asian Games at the end of 2006. We applaud UNESCO’s work towards  reforming Palestinian educational and cultural organizations, as well as the Organization’s interest in the cultural heritage  of Jerusalem. We hope that it will continue its efforts in this respect, as well as its work to ensure that all Palestinian  children gain an education; they have a right to education and to a peaceful and settled life.
(19.5) Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, we should like to convey it  our best wishes. We appreciate its constructive role, its ethical mission, its positive journey. We should like to say to it  that it faces a momentous challenge in today’s world, dominated as it is by tensions, mistrust, and the control of some  over others. UNESCO’s role is sorely needed, its functions essential. We warmly salute the people who carry out this  work. We offer them our support so that the voice of truth can ring out loud and clear, the rights of humankind can be  protected, and human values kept safe. Our sincere compliments go to all of those who have made their mark on the  journey of humanity and made their contribution to the human fabric. There is still a challenge ahead of every one of us.  Although all of these challenges are different, they give value to life when they are successfully overcome. Thank you,  and may the peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you.  א ٢٠,١ ، א א א ، א ، א.א א א א א ،  .א
(20.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your interesting and wide-ranging address, and thank you for  the congratulations and support. I give the floor now to the Honourable Komlan Messan Nubukpo, Minister for Higher  Education and Research of Togo.  (Le Président poursuit en français)
20.2 Vous avez la parole Monsieur le Ministre.
21.1 M. Nubukpo (Togo) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames et Messieurs,  c’est pour moi un insigne honneur et un privilège certain de prendre la parole devant cette auguste assemblée pour vous  délivrer le message de paix, de tolérance et d’espérance des plus hautes autorités togolaises et réaffirmer du haut de  cette tribune du savoir et du partage, l’attachement du peuple togolais aux idéaux de notre Organisation commune. Mon  émotion est ici d’autant plus grande que la présente session se tient à un moment important de la vie de l’UNESCO, où  celle-ci célèbre ses soixante ans - soixante années de lutte acharnée contre l’ignorance, l’intolérance et  l’analphabétisme.
21.2 Permettez-moi, avant d’aller plus loin, de féliciter chaleureusement S. E. M. Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan  pour sa brillante élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale. Je voudrais également exprimer toute mon  admiration à S. E. M. Michael Abiola Omolewa qui, avec humilité, clairvoyance et détermination, a dirigé avec succès
195  les travaux de la 32e session de la Conférence générale. Je voudrais en outre m’associer à tous ceux qui m’ont précédé  pour me réjouir, au nom du Gouvernement togolais, de l’arrivée du Brunéi Darussalam qui, par sa culture ainsi que par  ses femmes et ses hommes, vient enrichir et élargir le cercle de la grande famille de l’UNESCO. Enfin, il me plaît de  rendre un vibrant hommage à tout le personnel de l’UNESCO, en particulier au Directeur général, M. Koïchiro  Matsuura. Je voudrais le féliciter chaleureusement pour sa brillante réélection annoncée et l’assurer du ferme soutien de  mon pays pour l’aider à porter plus haut le flambeau de l’éthique universelle de paix, de justice et de solidarité dans un  monde de plus en plus troublé et en perte de repères.
21.3 Monsieur le Président, la présente session de la Conférence générale se tient à un moment où la paix et la  sécurité internationales continuent d’être gravement menacées ; cette évolution préoccupante du monde appelle  l’UNESCO à assumer pleinement son rôle et sa vocation morale et éducative avec une plus grande détermination et des  initiatives plus audacieuses. Notre ferme attachement aux idéaux de l’UNESCO nous commande de souscrire sans  équivoque à la légitimité de ce noble combat et d’avancer résolument vers l’instauration d’un monde épris de paix et de  solidarité, en renforçant davantage, par l’éducation, la science et la culture, la coopération et le dialogue entre les  peuples et les nations, sans distinction de race, de sexe, de langue ou de religion. L’intense travail normatif auquel  l’Organisation et les États membres se consacrent depuis de longues années nous conforte dans notre conviction que  l’âpre lutte menée pour construire un monde plus juste, plus solidaire et plus respectueux des droits de l’homme et des  libertés fondamentales n’est pas vaine.
21.4 À la présente session, il importe de nous engager sans équivoque pour l’adoption du projet de convention sur  la protection de la diversité des contenus culturels et des expressions artistiques en vue d’assurer, à l’heure où les  menaces qui pèsent sur l’humanité se font de plus en plus pressantes, la promotion des valeurs universelles, tout en  respectant scrupuleusement la diversité des cultures, des civilisations et des religions.
21.5 Dans la même optique, il nous revient, face au désarroi et autres incertitudes auxquels le monde reste  confronté, d’affirmer notre volonté politique quant au projet de Convention contre le dopage dans le sport et au projet  de Déclaration relative à des normes universelles en matière de bioéthique.
21.6. Monsieur le Président, à l’issue du Sommet du Millénaire qui avait débattu des problèmes de pauvreté et de  développement, les chefs d’État et de gouvernement avaient adopté la Déclaration du Millénaire, une déclaration de  solidarité internationale sans précédent dans laquelle les pays riches et les pays pauvres avaient, ensemble, pris des  engagements fermes pour affirmer avec force leur volonté de réduire de moitié, d’ici à 2015, la proportion de la  population mondiale touchée par la pauvreté. Les hauts dirigeants du monde avaient alors émis l’espoir que d’autres  grandes réunions, tenues également au seuil de ce millénaire, serviraient de cadre à la mise en route d’un véritable  partenariat entre les pays du Nord et ceux du Sud. Force est, malheureusement, de constater que les Objectifs du  Millénaire pour le développement sont loin d’être atteints.
21.7 Monsieur le Président, c’est le lieu ici pour nous, d’apporter, au nom du Gouvernement togolais, notre appui  au Projet de programme et de budget pour 2006-2007 et de souscrire, dans l’ensemble, aux activités prioritaires retenues,  qui sont expressément orientées vers la réalisation des grands objectifs énoncés dans la Déclaration du Millénaire.
21.8 Monsieur le Président, l’accès libre et équitable aux technologies de l’information et de la communication  reste une préoccupation légitime partout dans le monde et particulièrement en Afrique. La deuxième phase du Sommet  mondial sur la société de l’information qui se tiendra en novembre prochain à Tunis devra interpeller la conscience de la  communauté internationale et surtout des pays développés face à l’élargissement persistant du fossé numérique entre  pays riches et pays pauvres. Ce Sommet devra également s’interroger sur la place qui sera faite à l’éducation, à la  diversité culturelle et au multilinguisme, notamment en ce qui concerne les langues africaines, dans le processus en  cours.
21.9 La mondialisation ouvre des perspectives inédites qui commandent à l’UNESCO d’entrer dans une phase  nouvelle où il s’agira de combiner efficacité, modernité et proximité afin de mieux répondre aux défis du futur. À cet  égard, la réforme interne engagée avec courage, sagesse et détermination par le Directeur général et son équipe, de  même que la rationalisation de la collaboration entre les trois organes directeurs de l’UNESCO, loin de réduire nos  ambitions, doivent, in fine, permettre d’optimiser la capacité de l’UNESCO de répondre efficacement aux attentes que  le monde place en elle.
21.10 L’éducation est un outil essentiel pour permettre à chacun de parvenir au plein épanouissement de ses  potentialités et pour combattre le sous-développement, ainsi qu’un moyen primordial d’améliorer la qualité de la vie.  Les activités extrabudgétaires de l’UNESCO dont le Togo vient de bénéficier grâce aux fonds japonais pour la  formation des enseignants en vue du renforcement des ressources humaines de son système éducatif, notamment du  troisième degré, attestent que le Directeur général voit dans la mondialisation elle-même un processus éducatif au cœur  du développement. Le Gouvernement togolais est conscient que tous les Togolais doivent participer et contribuer à la  réussite de ce processus et s’y atteler sans attendre dans le cadre de son programme de réconciliation nationale. Le  peuple togolais, fermement engagé aux côtés de son Gouvernement dans un effort de développement dans la paix et la  stabilité institutionnelle, est convaincu que la paix doit être réalisée partout, et surtout sur le continent africain, afin de
196  permettre à ses fils et à ses filles de consacrer leur énergie et leur intelligence à relever les nombreux défis auxquels ils  sont confrontés. L’édification de la paix, qui demeure au cœur des préoccupations de l’UNESCO, est aussi au prix de  cet effort. Puisse cette session consolider encore davantage les bases de notre Organisation commune pour que  triomphent la compréhension mutuelle, la solidarité agissante et la paix entre tous les peuples du monde ! Je vous  remercie.    :א ٢٢,١ א א ، א ، א א.א، א א ،א א א  .א
(22.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your instructive statement, I must express my appreciation for your kind  congratulations. I now give the floor to the honourable Vuk Drašković, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Serbia and  Montenegro.  (The President continues in English)
22.2 You have the floor, Excellency.
23.1 Mr Drašković (Serbia and Montenegro):   Excellencies, dear friends, at the outset, I would like to congratulate His Excellency Musa bin Jaafar bin  Hassan, Ambassador of Oman, on his election to the presidency of the General Conference. His vast experience and  enthusiasm ensure that he will successfully discharge the duties of this high office of world importance. I would also  like to express my great satisfaction at the Executive Board’s recommendation to the General Conference to re-elect  Mr Koichiro Matsuura as UNESCO’s Director-General for another term. In proposing Mr Matsuura’s continued tenure  as UNESCO’s Director-General, Serbia and Montenegro records its gratitude to him for all he has done – and continues  to do – wisely, nobly and persistently.
23.2 Mr President, the UNESCO programme for 2006-2007 is impressive in all five areas: education, natural  sciences, social and human sciences, culture, and communication and information. The delegation of Serbia and  Montenegro will discuss all these subjects in greater detail in the relevant commissions. Allow me to express my  personal joy and pride that the Miroslav Gospel, a manuscript dating from the year 1180, has been included in the  Memory of the World Programme. The human spirit is universal, and its highest achievements in the Serbian and every  other nation become the heritage of the entire world. In a similar way, the killing of innocent people and the destruction  of creative works of the human spirit are crimes against humanity. It is very encouraging that a general agreement was  reached at the United Nations sixtieth anniversary 2005 World Summit to condemn acts of terrorism committed  anywhere, by anybody and irrespective of motivation.
23.3 This unified position of the world calls also for resolute action. There is no doubt that we must fight terrorism  also by force, but spiritual weapons are certainly the most important, as the UNESCO General Conference concluded at  its 31st session. In educational curricula throughout the world, in the media, as well as in public statements by  intellectual or political elites, the principle of human life as the greatest value must be promoted. The killing of people  and the destruction of places of worship and books must not be rewarded, but prohibited and punished. All religious  books and all cultures of the world condemn crime equally, and we must capitalize on that. In so doing, we shall show  that the propaganda of terrorists, which celebrates evil and promises heaven to terrorists, is nonsense.
23.4 In a part of Serbia, in Kosovo and Metohija, ethnic hatred and terrorism are pursuing two goals. The first is  an independent Albanian State of Kosovo and the second is the expulsion of the Serbs and the destruction of their  religious and cultural heritage. I express my gratitude to the participants of the UNESCO Donors’ Conference, held in  Paris on 13 May this year, for the reconstruction of destroyed and burned Serbian Christian churches and monasteries. I  thank present donors, and also the future donors that we hope will come forward, since they have given terrorists a  message that they cannot destroy centuries of culture of the Serbian people, of culture belonging to the world, and that  solidarity will always prevail over hatred and destruction. I am confident that all that has been destroyed will be  restored and given maximum protection. I am also convinced that the United Nations, the European Union and the  international military forces will not allow the creation of an independent State of Kosovo, since the Charter of the  United Nations must be respected and since ethnic cleansing and terrorism must not be rewarded.
23.5 There is room in Kosovo and Metohija, I assure you, for the cultures, religions and happiness of all –  Albanians, Serbs, Montenegrins, Turks, Roma, Croats, Muslims and Christians alike. The situation is a special one, and  the solution for the status of Kosovo must be special as well, but it must be reached by common agreement, in the best  interests of everybody and of the region as a whole. Thank you for your attention.   :א ٢٤ א ، א ، א ، ،.א א א א א א א א.א ،.
(25.1) Mr Saad (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):  President of the General Conference, it gives me great pleasure on my own behalf and on behalf of my  delegation, to congratulate you for the trust that has been shown you, a trust you amply deserve. I should like to extend  my warmest thanks to UNESCO, to its Director-General and to everyone who works there for their fruitful cooperation  with my country in the context of the comprehensive development process that Syria is witnessing under the leadership  of His Excellency President Bashar al-Assad, President of the Syrian Arab Republic. The education sector in our country  is undergoing real change in both quantitative and qualitative terms, in an education system that offers free and  compulsory primary education between the ages of 6 and 15, and free education at the pre-university level. The sector has  seen the implementation of many strategic projects, often in cooperation with specialized international organizations and  in particular with UNESCO. These organizations also include the European Training Foundation, the German Agency for  Technical Cooperation and the United Nations Development Project, in addition to cooperation with the European Union,  the World Bank and specialized Arab and Islamic organizations. At the forefront of these projects is the national project  to retrain tens of thousands of teachers in order for them to gain university degrees instead of degrees from intermediate- level institutes. Also prominent is the project to set national guidelines for curricula. This outstanding plan is geared at  formulating the most suitable criteria to design curricula scientifically and objectively. It aims to benefit from the  information and technology revolution and further the drive towards development in Syria. We hope that in so doing, it  can remedy any weaknesses in our education system.
(25.2) Ladies and gentlemen, the Syrian Arab Republic believes in a dialogue of civilizations based on recognizing  the languages, cultures and interests of the Other. It asserts its support for the work of UNESCO and of a large part of the  international community towards opening up new horizons for cooperation between world States based on mutual respect,  equality and shared interests. In this context, Syria has ratified the International Convention for the Safeguarding of the  Intangible Cultural Heritage. This ratification was motivated by Syria’s belief that cultural heritage belongs to human  civilization and is a means towards dialogue, creativity and communication between peoples. That is also why Syria has  been and continues to be a keen participant in discussions centring on the preliminary draft convention on the protection  of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions. Syria takes the view that diversity is a source of wealth for  all of humanity. The variety of languages and cultures can only help international dialogue and understanding, in a spirit  that is distant from any form of extremism or unilateral perspectives. This process in turn helps to realize more of  UNESCO’s goals, and to implement more of its programmes. We should like here to state our support for the UNESCO  projects that are directed at enhancing dialogue and cooperation between continents and peoples. These go under many  names, such as South-South dialogue or North-South dialogue.
(25.3) Ladies and gentlemen, my country – the Syrian Arab Republic – endeavours to put in place the best possible  relations with the people of the world. Together with them, its educational and scientific programmes open many new  horizons for dialogue in different domains, fostering a culture of peace, understanding and respect for others. In so doing,  it is true to the spirit of UNESCO’s goals, aspirations and programmes, and also to the cultural and human roots of the  Arab nation. We should like here to renew our call for a revision of the curricula that are taught in certain countries,  which breed condescension and intolerance. Instead, there must be an insistence on the fact that values are not the  preserve of any one nation. Rather, they belong by right to all of the peoples of the earth. These peoples therefore have  the right to choose their own political, economic and social way of life, so long as that choice does not take place at the  expense of other peoples or nations. It should instead be a choice that leads to further dialogue, human communication  and the exchange of skills between peoples. To insist on imposing a single way of thinking or acting is to go against any  form of dialogue between civilizations, and against the balanced spread of knowledge. The result is only more bigotry  and egoism. Our responsibility as educators therefore requires us to beware of the grave danger posed by the hegemonic  values and modes of conduct engendered by the unjust way in which certain powerful countries interact with other States.  Individuals and groups have the capacity to embody these values, bringing them from the level of politics, security and  economics to that of individuals and culture. These values can thereby affect the conduct of individuals, giving rise to a  way of life founded on power and hegemony, control and negation, to the extent that nobody can discuss what different  nations have in common. As educators, you must also be aware of how the process of education is hindered by practices  that escape the laws of reason and international law: practices such as embargos, sanctions and accountability. We cannot  revive education when our knowledge resources, our human resources and our material resources are beset by threats and  embargo. The situation requires resolutions and warnings calling for education systems to be put outside the reach of the  frustrated wishes of the new hegemonic powers that are led, unfortunately, by groups of people with an imperialist and  mythical mentality. In such a climate, our students and our people come up against the hard facts that face them every  day. For instance, there is the aggressive terrorist policy of Israel in its occupation of the Arab Syrian Golan Heights, and  of the other occupied Arab territories in Palestine and South Lebanon. Every day, this policy leads to our students being  prevented from continuing their studies safely and serenely, and prevented from focusing their attention on their work  and their future. Many of them cannot reach their educational or cultural institutions because of repression, imprisonment  or appalling barriers. Many reach their places of study to find only flattened ruins. All of this is without mentioning the  forceful imposition of curricula. We therefore invite UNESCO to give every form of support and backing to educational  and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab Syrian Golan Heights, and in the other occupied Arab territories. In this  way, UNESCO’s goals can become a reality, and its help can reach those who deserve it. We should like to express our
199  highest respect for the efforts of the Director-General, which lead to financial grants becoming available for some of our  students in the Golan Heights who are studying at the universities of the mother nation. We hope that this will be only a  temporary phase leading to the occupied Arab Syrian Golan Heights being returned to the mother nation, Syria, and to the  Palestinian State being established with Jerusalem as its capital.
(25.4) Ladies and gentlemen, we should like to express our renewed support for the Director-General’s nomination  for a new term leading UNESCO. Our support stems from our confidence in his abilities, and from his expertise in  managing the Organization and implementing its programmes in a just and balanced way, working side by side with its  Member States. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٢٦,١ א א ، א א ، א ، א.א א א א א ،.
(26.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for that wide-ranging address, and thank you for your generous  congratulations. I will now give the floor to His Excellency Bálint Magyar, Minister of Education of Hungary.  (The President continues in English)
26.2 You have the floor, Your Excellency.
27.1 Mr Magyar (Hungary):  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, we live in a post-modern world, full of new complexities  and challenges. Undoubtedly, one of the most important challenges of this era is globalization. Globalization, like other  historical phenomena, has both positive and negative attributes. We see anti-globalization demonstrations, which target  the negative aspects of globalization. I do not participate in demonstrations any more as I did two decades ago against  the communist regime. Currently, as a minister, my job and responsibility is to work on specific programmes and  projects that serve the interests of people trying to find answers to the above-mentioned challenges.
27.2 On behalf of the Hungarian Government I have arrived with a specific initiative, the establishment of a  comprehensive programme which I would call the “international digital archive of cultural heritage programme”, and  which would integrate several of UNESCO’s existing projects such as the Memory of the World, intangible heritage  and Digi-Arts programmes, and would be linked to the Charter on the Preservation of the Digital Heritage. I am aware  of the fact that the Republic of Korea has a very similar initiative in this field. Our proposal, in my opinion, would  reflect the positive side of globalization and multilateral cooperation. Under this new, well-structured framework,  cultural heritage will become accessible to all, through a clear and user-friendly resource. Let me introduce the idea and  briefly outline it.
27.3 Globalization is linked to positive concepts such as mobility, transparency and equal (or at least widespread)  access. Globalization makes the handling of national cultural heritage on an international scale a possible reality,  allowing for access on a large scale. A direct way of supporting and implementing this idea is digitization. Digitization  is a tool not only for preserving but also for sharing. Digital content allows for widespread access. “[The] wide diffusion  of culture … [is] indispensable to the dignity of man and constitute[s] a sacred duty which all nations must fulfil in a  spirit of mutual assistance and concern.” This is a quote from the first lines of our founding Constitution. Digital  technology might help fulfil this commitment undertaken 60 years ago. If we accept cultural diversity as a common  value of people the question that naturally follows is: how can this common value be developed, protected and  disseminated? First, it is necessary to collect these elements of cultural heritage and place them in a standardized, well- organized structure. Second, the selected pieces should be made available to all and they should also be searchable via  the Internet. A tremendous amount of work has already been done by museums and national heritage organizations.  These organizations have developed immensely rich websites and digital databanks. UNESCO should capitalize on  these initiatives, bringing in new resources to allow existing networks to become truly international. This means that the  international digital archive will not only be accessible globally, but should be enhanced by worldwide contributions.
27.4 As I see it, this would involve multilateral cooperation, a joint effort based on voluntary activity on the part  of countries, under the direction of a newly formed committee of UNESCO which would determine the aspects and  structure of the programme and also coordinate activities. UNESCO’s competence should include the establishment of a  committee for the international digital archive of cultural heritage and an international award for the best national  performance of the year. The committee’s responsibility should include determining the principles underlying the  building of a common digital archive, identifying partnerships to contribute to the digital resources, defining a structural  framework for the selection of categories outlining aspects of selection and inclusion, and coordinating and  documenting the specific voluntary activity of the countries. And finally as regards individual countries, they are free to  join; application and activity is on a voluntary basis as I mentioned; they are invited to contribute to this international  cooperation, through the digitization of their national cultural heritage; and they are asked to submit proposals to the  committee. In addition to the national language, member countries should provide cultural content in two other  languages.
27.5 Ladies and gentlemen, it is a well-known fact that UNESCO not only supports the protection of particularity  and cultural diversity, but is also a flagship in this field, with numerous initiatives. With the establishment of a  international digital archive of cultural heritage programme, and through digitization, we can offer direct access to our  cultural heritage for all. I believe that this programme should be started as soon as possible. The inclusion of cultural  content is a vital step in my opinion, and I hope that UNESCO will take the necessary major steps to support all efforts  in this field. States should work together, they should cooperate, as we all have common interests. Thank you very  much for your kind attention.   :א ٢٨ אא، א ، א ، א א ، א .א א ، א א א  .א
(28) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your succinct and instructive statement. Your proposal was heard by the  Conference, and the Secretariat will give it serious consideration. I now give the floor to the honourable Fariq Javed  Ashraf Qazi, Minister of Education of Pakistan.
29.1 Mr Qazi (Pakistan):  Mr President of the General Conference, heads and members of delegations, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, I would like to commence by joining all the voices that have congratulated UNESCO on its sixtieth  anniversary. It is a time not only to reflect on the future role of UNESCO in all its endeavours, but also to celebrate its  achievements and accomplishments. Today, UNESCO is without doubt the intellectual arm of the United Nations  system, helping to make our world a better place to live in. We congratulate the Director-General on his unanimous  nomination to lead our Organization for a second term. Mr Matsuura has provided visionary leadership and direction in  putting UNESCO back on track through restructuring and reform, and by making the Organization more universal.  Pakistan would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Brunei Darussalam to UNESCO and the Asia and the  Pacific group. It also welcomes Singapore’s request for Permanent Observer status. This will make our Organization  even more representative and inclusive. May I extend our heartiest felicitations to the new President of the General  Conference, His Excellency Mr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, from the brotherly country of Oman. Mr President, you  have an onerous yet most rewarding task ahead, and you will have our full support in your efforts.
29.2 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the dynamic leadership of our President Pervez Musharraf and  Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz, Pakistan is carrying out reforms to accelerate the pace of national development. This  includes devolution of power to the district level, a poverty reduction strategy and, most importantly, reforms in the  education sector, including an action plan for education for all (EFA).
29.3 Pakistan recognizes that education is a prerequisite for achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We  are one of the nine high-population countries with urgent needs. We believe that education, and education alone, is the  first step to eradicate poverty. We acknowledge that without human resource development and genuine capacity- building, economic growth cannot be sustained. Pakistan, therefore, has targeted education as our social sector priority  and placed it within the context of our overall strategy for poverty alleviation and sustainable development. We attach  high importance to the EFA initiative. Accordingly, we have developed an EFA National Plan of Action through  extensive and broad-based discussions and consultations with key EFA partners and stakeholders. In fact many of the  educational strategic plans are a direct spill-over of the Dakar impetus. We have a holistic approach focusing not only  on quantity by maximizing enrolment, but also on the quality of education. Our plan of action has therefore three  primary objectives. Firstly, reaching out to all those who have been deprived of education, particularly girls; secondly,  promoting community participation and ownership of basic education programmes at the grassroots; and thirdly,  improving the curricula of basic education by making it more relevant. I would like to highlight and emphasize that we  firmly believe that investment in education for girls is by far the best investment in education.
29.4 You will recollect that at Dakar in 2000, developed countries and institutions pledged that “no country  seriously committed to basic education will be thwarted in the achievement of their goal by lack of resources”. Pakistan  and many other underdeveloped countries have shown political will and commitment and have prepared credible  national plans of action. Mr President, today, we invite all our partners in development to come forward now and  support the EFA national plans of action so that we may truly achieve the objective of education for all. We also urge  UNESCO to mobilize developed countries under the EFA Fast Track Initiative so that national plans of action may be  implemented without delay. We have done our bit. We now await action by our partners.
29.5 I am sure that we will deal extensively with these issues tomorrow at the Ministerial Round Table on EFA. It  is my sincere hope that a joint plan of action will give momentum and act as a much-needed catalyst for EFA  programmes, enabling them to take off in developing countries, especially in Africa and Asia which are home to most  of the E-9 countries. In our region, we also hope that the dividends of peace may bring stability but also prosperity to  the peoples of South Asia.
29.6 Mr President, UNESCO is a unique body within the United Nations system, playing an important role in  developing international cooperation and understanding. Pakistan fully supports its effective contribution to promoting  peace, particularly in post-conflict areas. We also applaud the promotion of a “Culture of Peace” and “Dialogue among  Civilizations”. In 2005, UNESCO showed its efficacy in another area, namely disaster reduction, in the wake of the  Indian Ocean tsunami. These efforts deserve our support and commendation.
29.7 This year the General Conference has before it three draft instruments on cultural diversity, on bioethics and  against doping in sport. These three instruments have common ground in that they establish new ethical standards. They  are normative guidelines in keeping with UNESCO’s mission to promote “the democratic principles of dignity, equality  and mutual respect amongst human beings”. I am very happy to announce that Pakistan has ratified the Convention on  the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. I had the pleasure of depositing that ratification with the Director- General yesterday. We wish you, Mr President, all the best in your endeavours for the success of the 33rd session of the  General Conference. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.   :א ٣٠,١ א א א ، א א ، א ، א.א א א א ،  .א
(30.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, honourable Minister, for your interesting and comprehensive statement, and I must  express my appreciation to your country and to yourself for the support and backing I have received. I now give the floor  to the honourable Bertel Haarder, Minister for Education of Denmark.  (The President continues in English)
30.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor
31.1 Mr Haarder (Denmark):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the European Union, Denmark, of course, associates herself with  the European Union statement put forward on its behalf by the United Kingdom. We will add a birthday gift. This year  the United Nations and UNESCO turn 60 and we will multiply our contribution by a factor of four. We will do this  because we support the mandate and ideals of UNESCO. We want to deepen the work of UNESCO. We do not want to  spread it out. UNESCO should focus, and not water too many flowers with too little water. Let me therefore give a few  examples of areas where I believe UNESCO can offer a unique contribution. UNESCO’s standard-setting work in the  fields of education, science, culture and communication is important for many reasons. The standard-setting instruments  are a concrete and tangible result of UNESCO’s work. Like the previous speaker I would also like to stress the three  instruments on the agenda of this session of the General Conference: the draft international convention against doping  in sport, the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions and the draft  universal declaration on bioethics and human rights. Each of them helps establish UNESCO as a central forum for  coordinating some of the ethical, normative and intellectual issues of our time. I would also like to draw attention to the  cooperation between UNESCO and the OECD to develop guidelines to ensure quality provision in cross-border higher  education. We all know that the expansion of the international market for educational services is a necessary part of  globalization, but it introduces new challenges in relation to the quality of delivery and protection of students and other  stakeholders.
31.2 I very much welcome the fact that our international organizations cooperate whenever possible and that they  combine their forces – like UNESCO and OECD have done – instead of overlapping or even competing. UNESCO is  coordinating three important international initiatives: education for all (EFA), the United Nations Literacy Decade
(2003-2012), and the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). 2015 is only
10 years away, and already this year we are falling short of the goal of eliminating gender disparities in primary and  secondary education, as mentioned by previous speakers. We must face the fact that our efforts have not been sufficient.  The coordinating role in EFA and the two decades is an opportunity for UNESCO to demonstrate its comparative  advantage, especially in capacity-building.
31.3 At this session of the General Conference, the Nordic countries have proposed a separate discussion on EFA.  UNESCO must exercise full leadership of this global movement aimed at promoting quality education at every level. In  this connection, the EFA Global Monitoring Report is an excellent and crucial tool for keeping the world on track.  Literacy is of vital importance for empowerment. If we fail to combat illiteracy, we fail to achieve education for all.  Against this backdrop, Denmark and the other Nordic countries will propose a draft resolution encouraging the private  sector to help promote literacy through projects in cooperation with UNESCO. And we think it most fitting to propose  this in the year of the 200th anniversary of the famous storyteller Hans Christian Andersen.
31.4 Let me finally turn to a subject closely related to UNESCO’s role in the international system: the reform  process. Denmark strongly supports the adoption of all 26 recommendations concerning the most effective means of  strengthening the respective roles of the General Conference, the Executive Board and the Secretariat. We also support  the preparation of a time-bound action plan. This reform, in combination with the reform process initiated by the  Director-General, is essential for UNESCO to remain an effective and relevant international organization, and even to  become more effective. To support UNESCO in its reform process, I am pleased to announce that the Danish  Government is planning to increase its annual extrabudgetary contributions to UNESCO from US $800,000 to more  than US $3 million as of next year. In so doing, we want to stress firstly that we attach great importance to UNESCO,  and secondly that we want to see reform carried out for UNESCO to be prepared for the next 60 years. Let me end by  recalling that UNESCO is not “somebody else”. UNESCO is us, the Member States, those that are responsible for the  future of UNESCO. Thank you.   :א ٣٢ א ، א א א א ، א א ، א א ، א א א.א א אא א א א.، ،.
(32) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Honourable Minister, thank you for your initiative in offering a birthday present in the form of your generous  financial contribution, that is, by increasing your participation in UNESCO and giving extrabudgetary contributions. In  addition, your undertaking concerning the eradication of illiteracy was heard by the Conference and will be given  consideration. I now give the floor to the honourable Mehla Mint Ahmed, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of  Mauritania. Your Excellency, you have the floor.    ):(א ٣٣,١ א א ،.א א א א ، א א א ، א א א ، א ، א א ، ، א ، א א א א א א ، א א .  א ٣٣,٢ א א א א א א א ، ، א א א ، א א א /א א.א א א א א א א א א אא א א א א א א ، א א א א א א א ،.א א א א א א א א.א א ، א א א א ، א א א א א א.א א א אא/א א א א א א א א א.א א א א א א א א א א א א א א א.אא א א א א א א א ، א.א ، א א א א אא א א א א א א א א א א א א א א א אא.א א א א ، א א א א א א א א א א א.א א ، א אא א א א א א ، א א א א א א א .א א א א א א א אא א א א א א א א א א א א א א.א א א א  .א/א
(33.1) Ms Mint Ahmed (Mauritania) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the General Conference, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads and members of delegation, ladies and gentlemen,  allow me first to congratulate His Excellency Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan on the trust shown him by those  present at the Conference. I am confident that your experience and wisdom, which we have already come to know so well,  will allow you to direct the proceedings of our Conference in the climate we all wish for.
(33.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to convey to your distinguished gathering the greetings of the Military  Council for Justice and Democracy, those of its President, Colonel Ely Ould Mohammed Vall, and those of the  transitional civilian government of Mauritania. I should also like to explain to you briefly the reasons and motivations  behind the Corrective Movement of 3 August. The Corrective Movement came at a time when the country had reached a  dead end, in the wake of a crisis of trust between the regime and the people. The institutions provided for by the  Constitution had been emptied of any content. Natural resources were being wasted, leaving the country in danger of  fragmentation, at a time every aspect of life was marked by tribalism, factionalism and cronyism. In this oppressive  climate, corruption was widespread in every government sector. For all the efforts that had been made in the field of  education and the struggle against illiteracy, the results remained below the required level. Creative thinking was stifled,  the margin of liberties whittled away. Culture was falling behind, despite the country’s historic role as a meeting place for  different civilizations, and despite its prominence in the region. Faced with this situation and with the lack of any  prospective solution, the Mauritanian Army lived up to its responsibility on 3 August. It did so in order to change the  political system by peaceful means – not out of lust for power, but rather out of a wish to establish the values of justice  and democracy that the Mauritanian people needed. The widespread consensus and the popular approval shown by every  element of Mauritanian society show clearly how the goals of the Corrective Movement answer the people’s aspirations.  In order to create the appropriate climate to ensure the participation of all Mauritanians, the President of the Military  Council was quick to meet with all of the political parties and civil society organizations. With the same end in mind, he  issued a general amnesty for all prisoners who stood accused of political and military crimes, and passed a law forbidding  the President and members of the Military Council for Justice and Democracy from standing or from supporting any
204  contender at the forthcoming elections. The Council has pledged that these elections will be fair and transparent, and will  be observed by all of the interested parties. An appeal has therefore been made to the United Nations to send international  observers and provide the necessary technical support, in order to ensure that the elections proceed smoothly. At this  point, I would like to ask UNESCO for help in the areas in which it is active, so as to support the democratic process in  our country. Mr President, alongside these important decisions, the transitional government has formed three ministerial  committees, whose work focuses respectively on the transitional process to make democracy a reality, on justice and on  sound government. Their work is now nearing completion. To make certain that everybody participates in the transitional  process, all of the parties and civil society organizations will be invited to take part in planning the final stages of the  transitional process. The Military Council for Justice and Democracy has stated that this period will not take more than  two years, during which fair and transparent elections will be held. As a result of these elections, power will be ceded  through democratic means to an elected government. These are the reasons and aims behind the corrective movement that  my country witnessed on 3 August.
(33.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the situation that the world is currently experiencing impels us more than ever before  to cling to the noble ideals for which our Organization was founded 60 years ago. Today’s world is beset by civil wars  and crises, by dangerous intellectual tendencies, by natural disasters. All of this means that the fields of education and  culture require more intensive efforts, if we are to lighten the sufferings of our peoples and create a climate in which  peace can spread among humankind, as our Organization aspires to do. Mr President, dialogue and cultural exchange  between peoples are the most reliable way to build a world characterized by peace and prosperity. For so long as every  human being does not recognize others, or receive from them or give to them, we will not be able to live together in such  a way as to ensure the future we all aspire towards. For as long as it has existed, the world has been marked by  differences: differences in environment, in culture and more besides. Protecting that difference is our inescapable duty. In  that context, my country holds out great hopes that our Conference will produce an agreement on cultural diversity that  will be satisfactory for all parties and protect the specificities of every society in our global village. As you well know,  Mr President, any discussion of culture is closely linked to the issue of education. For education is the best way, indeed  the only way to foster culture and to build peace in the minds of men. That is why we in Mauritania attach a special  importance to the Education for All programme. In our view, realizing the Millennium Development Goals is conditional  on the success of the educational programmes. As we support the programme, we are eager to make sure that it does not  become a question of “how much” rather than “how.”
(33.4) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cultural heritage includes the identity of peoples, the symbols of their  civilization. Preserving and valuing them is an inescapable duty, and one that calls for persistent efforts. My country  attaches the utmost importance to cultural heritage. This is made clear by the fact that the first legal texts to be approved  by the Military Council for Justice and Democracy had to do with culture. This national interest in culture and heritage  leads us to encourage the heritage protection projects that the Organization has planned for the coming two years. My  country is committed to working to protect its tangible and intangible heritage. It gives me pleasure to inform you that we  shall ratify the international agreement for the protection of the intangible heritage shortly, with God’s permission. Mr  President, we in Mauritania aspire to bridging the digital divide, which is a source of disparities as regards education,  science and culture. At a time when the Earth’s environment is suffering pollution and imbalance, we find that 75% of  the African continent’s inhabitants do not have access to electric power. Our Organization should therefore give special  attention to renewable energy. Given the importance of scientific research for development, a sector devoted to higher  education and to scientific research has recently been established in my country. We hope that it will benefit from  UNESCO’s expertise and support. Mr President, this Organization’s work is ultimately directed towards youth, because it  is after all the generation of tomorrow. At the beginning of this Conference, we listened to a report on the Youth Forum. I  should like to take this occasion to present our thanks to the Director-General for his support for young people. We hope  that the Organization will work, within the context of its programmes, to meet young peoples’ requests. And because the  work of young people is associated with sport, we suggest that preparation and training programmes should contain a  specific element of physical and sports education.
(33.5) Mr President, my country places great hope in all of the Organization’s programmes, and will spare no effort  to help make them a success. I should like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Koïchiro Matsuura for the fresh impetus  that our Organization has seen under his direction, which has been distinguished by evolution, by the effective  participation of civil society, and by determination in implementing programmes. I should also like to compliment him on  his re-election for a second term. We are sure that this term will allow him to further empower the Organization. I also  thank the Secretariat of the Organization for preparing our working documents so ably, in form as well as in content.  Before finishing my address, I should not omit to welcome to the community of UNESCO the Sultanate of Brunei  Darussalam and Singapore. Thank you very much, and may the peace of God and His mercy be upon you.   :א ٣٤,١ אא א א א ، א א.، א א א א ،..
(34.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for this comprehensive and interesting statement, and I must say I  appreciate your confidence and support. The honourable Georg Boomgarden, State Secretary of the Fedearl Foreign  Office of Germany, now has the floor. Please go ahead.  (The President continues in English)
34.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
35.1 Mr Boomgaarden (Germany):  Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me congratulate you,  Mr President, on your election and wish you success in the performance of your high responsibility. I thank your  predecessor, Professor Omolewa, for his excellent work. It was our pleasure to welcome him to Germany in July.
35.2  First of all, I would like to fully endorse the statement made by Baroness Amos in the name of the European  Union. The 33rd session of the UNESCO General Conference is a special event for Germany. We are particularly  honoured that Horst Köhler, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, was invited along with Hamid Karzai,  President of Afghanistan, to address UNESCO on the occasion of its 60th anniversary. The high esteem in which we  hold UNESCO was clearly reflected in his words. Germany would like to thank you, Mr Matsuura, for modernizing  UNESCO. I would like to proffer my sincere congratulations on your virtually unanimous nomination by the Board for  a second term of office. The Executive Board has fully supported your reform efforts. My thanks go to the outgoing  Chairman of the Board, Ambassador Hans-Heinrich Wrede, as well.
35.3  For the future, UNESCO needs to define its comparative advantages over other international organizations  and decide where to assert itself. We would like to strengthen UNESCO even more as a forum for the elaboration of  political guidelines, model projects and international norms. It should provide impetus for the advancement of  democracy, human rights and sustainable resource management around the world. UNESCO should also help promote  the wealth found in the cultural diversity and the pluralism within our societies. To crystallize a vision for UNESCO,  we need an open process of consultation that involves civil society. Vibrant civil societies are the true motor of human  development. With its unique network of National Commissions, UNESCO has an exceptional instrument for involving  civil society. We expressly encourage UNESCO to make even greater use of that network when it comes to designing  and implementing UNESCO programmes and drawing the public’s attention to them.
35.4 Great challenges lie ahead. I would like to focus on three themes of particular importance: innovative  education, disaster prevention and the setting of normative standards. Innovative education: Education is the prime  resource of all societies. Education for all (EFA) remains a top priority of the Organization. We need forward-looking  approaches with respect to education systems and the quality of education. The United Nations Decade of Education for  Sustainable Development (2005-2014) is also an important priority. In Germany, a national committee has been  established to harness the efforts of all actors in the field. Moreover, vocational training is of key importance, in  particular in the creation of equal opportunities for girls and women.
35.5 Second, disaster prevention: We are confronted with natural catastrophes ever more frequently – most  recently in the Gulf of Mexico and in Central America, and last December in the Indian Ocean. In cooperation with  Indonesia we are currently working on a tsunami early warning system, coordinated by UNESCO. The first new- generation buoys will be presented to the Indonesian Government on 10 October. The third International Early Warning  Conference will be held in Bonn in March 2006. All of you are warmly invited to attend this conference under United  Nations’ auspices.
35.6 Now I come to the third point: normative standards. First, cultural diversity: the draft convention highlights  UNESCO’s ability to deliver results. It is a clear text on a highly complex subject. The draft strikes a balance between  the demands of economic liberalization and the need to actively steer cultural policy. The public funding for cultural  institutions such as opera houses, theatres and museums, as well as music schools for young people and adult education  centres, is absolutely vital in Germany. Such public support serves to sustain culture. Indeed, nobody in Germany would  tolerate it, if, for example, there were any restrictions on the distribution of films. On the other hand, award-winning  domestic productions such as “Goodbye Lenin” could never have been made without public support. We want to retain  this freedom. In Germany the negotiations on the draft convention were followed closely by civil society and by our  public. We do hope that the draft convention will be adopted at this General Conference.
35.7  Ladies and gentlemen, Germany welcomes the UNESCO universal draft declaration on bioethics and human  rights as a milestone of international standard-setting in the field of bioethics. For the first time ever, States have agreed  on exacting common minimum standards on ethical issues related to medicine and life sciences that are designed to  guide States in the formulation of their legislation and guide the actions of all those who work in medical practice and  the biological sciences. I would, however, like to advise you that an in-depth debate continues in Germany on research  on persons without the capacity to consent, a debate that has also made itself felt in Parliament. Associations for the  handicapped, as well as human rights groups and religious leaders, have publicly stated that in their opinion the  declaration on bioethics leaves some vital questions unanswered. Under the laws of many countries, persons who lack  the capacity to consent and who are, for example, in psychiatric care, in a children’s home or a nursing home, or  perhaps in prison, do not have a friend or relative as their legal guardian, but a guardian appointed by the State. The  above-mentioned associations see a potential conflict of interest in such cases, which could result in abuse to the  detriment of the person in question, if the State wishes on the one hand to promote research and on the other hand can  itself grant consent on behalf of these most vulnerable people. Pope Benedict XVI recently announced the beatification  of Bishop Graf von Galen. This man had the courage to stand up to the Nazi regime when it began murdering
206  handicapped children and calling it medical euthanasia. After these crimes committed by the Nazis, people in Germany  are particularly sensitive when it comes to the treatment of handicapped persons. As I said, the debate in Germany is  still very much alive.
35.8 UNESCO faces the challenging task of contributing to the development of modern, cosmopolitan societies  that are fit for the future, and making this contribution more visible. New concepts are called for. The new Medium- Term Strategy will provide an opportunity for debate on how UNESCO can best help shape globalization. We hope the  results will ensure that UNESCO matters in the twenty-first century. Germany will continue to make its contribution to  this noble endeavour. Thank you.   :א ٣٦,١ ،،א אא ، א ،.א א א א  .א
(36.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your interesting and wide-ranging address, and thank you for your  congratulations. I now give the floor to the honourable Chaturon Chaisang, Minister of Education of Thailand.  (The President continues in English)
36.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
37.1 Mr Chaisang (Thailand):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, the Thai  delegation pays tribute to all those behind the success of UNESCO’s countless projects. We sincerely hope that in the  future UNESCO, and all its active players, will continue to cooperate and further lead this Organization to a stronger  future with renewed synergy. Thailand believes that UNESCO’s work is undoubtedly worthy of our continued support,  since cooperation in education, sciences and culture, is the key element in the building of peace and the promotion of  sustainable development. In this connection, I strongly believe that the process of the construction of peace must be  continuous and sustained. And at the heart of all endeavours should be the promotion of acceptance, respect for the  social and cultural differences of all peoples, and the ability to live together in this global village, working towards  mutual prosperity and sustainability. This, Mr President, should be the main theme of all UNESCO’s programmes and  activities in the future.
37.2 In this context, we support the emphasis currently placed on education as the key to quality of life, economic  well-being, social cohesion and meaningful participation in life. As host of the Jomtien World Conference on Education  for All, Thailand believes that basic education should aim primarily at breaking the poverty cycle, promoting self- dignity, self-reliance, a sense of citizenship and the ability to live harmoniously with other people in a pluralistic society.  Beyond basic education, UNESCO should promote lifelong learning at all levels, and should cooperate with other  relevant agencies to ensure that greater access to continued education is provided to adult workers and people outside  school and university, and that higher education becomes more open and diversified, enabling people from all walks of  life to freely pursue their diverse needs for higher education. Thailand believes that the goal of education is to promote  people’s potential in the widest sense. Education should promote equality and inclusiveness, eliminate the knowledge  divide and the digital divide, and must aim to achieve peace, mutual respect, acceptance and respect for the natural  environment and cultural heritage. UNESCO’s programmes in the areas of the sciences, culture and communication  should therefore include strong education components in order to increase the general public’s knowledge and the  potential for sustainable development. All UNESCO’s projects should include aspects relating to public information and  communication, including ICTs, and UNESCO’s portal should link up with the portals of other organizations with  similar goals in the area of promoting people’s formal and informal education, lifelong and higher learning in all parts  of the world.
37.3 UNESCO has recently focused on its role as knowledge broker and standard-setter, and has strengthened its  reform plan and processes. In this connection, I would like to suggest that UNESCO serve as an idea and project bank,  and utilize more effectively its partners and supporters and its expertise at national and regional levels, to enable the  advanced knowledge and excellent ideas deliberated upon at its various international bodies to be analysed and  implemented at country and regional levels. To be effective, UNESCO should provide a pool of expertise and financing  support to facilitate such implementation by the countries and agencies concerned, and should help in monitoring  performance outcomes, using successful cases as lessons for further development in the future. In this connection,  Thailand would be interested in sharing with other countries our experience and expertise gained from projects such as  those in the field of education for remote and tribal communities and for the most vulnerable groups.
37.4 Mr President, in this world where all kinds of violence prevail in every region, we in Thailand share a sense  of deep concern and feel a strong need to cooperate with all parties to find a lasting way and means of ending violence.  UNESCO’s programmes in education, science and culture should therefore encourage us to heed once more the
207  experienced voices of UNESCO’s founders who, like the phoenix that rose from the ashes of the Second World War,  declared that “it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed” and that UNESCO’s  contribution to peace and security must be achieved “by promoting collaboration among the nations through education,  science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and  fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or  religion.” Should we not, 60 years after the founding of UNESCO, resolve that the defences of peace in the minds of  men and women through active cooperation in education, science and culture must remain the main task of UNESCO?  Should we not ask UNESCO to continue to lay stress upon universal respect for justice, the rule of law and the human  rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex,  language or religion?
37.5 Yes, my delegation believes that acceptance and respect of other cultures, other faiths, other peoples’ rights  and dignity, and the differences in their physical conditions and social backgrounds, should be part and parcel of  everybody’s upbringing and education. We believe that UNESCO has a distinctive role to play in promoting  educational and cultural policies and programmes in countries across the regions, to promote inclusiveness and not  exclusiveness; acceptance and not rejection; dialogue and not blind confrontation; and peace, not violence. Literacy and  skills development, in any form and at any level, must therefore include multilingual literacy and skills, and skills in the  areas of intercultural and inter-faith dialogue, conflict resolution and peace building, and exercises in non-violence and  tolerance in all situations.
37.6 To be effective, UNESCO should also identify and cooperate with new partners, particularly newly- established organizations with similar objectives at international, regional and national levels, and should tap new  resources, strengthen the Organization’s national and regional networks and harness their potential to meet our shared  goals relating to the development of the changing world. On this optimistic note, the Thai delegation wishes UNESCO  all the best in its future tasks, and pledges its continued cooperation with UNESCO and all its Member States. Let us  work together to embark upon a new era of closer cooperation in UNESCO. Thank you.   :א ٣٨,١ ،،א א.אא א א א ، א א א א  .א
(38.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your instructive statement. I now give the floor to the honourable  Nariaki Nakayama, Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan.  (The President continues in English)
38.2 You have the floor, Your Excellency.
39.1 Mr Nakayama (Japan):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to  congratulate you, Mr President, on your election. Mr President, today we welcome the 60th anniversary of UNESCO,  whose role is to “build peace in the minds of men”. However, we are still witnessing acts of terrorism which continue to  threaten our world. I believe that education has a key role to play in eradicating terrorism. Children, who represent the  future of humankind, must learn through education to respect mutual understanding and cultural diversity. They must  learn that acts of terrorism can never be justified, whatever the motives. UNESCO’s work for peace, through its  activities in education, science and culture, may appear to be a long-term undertaking, but I am convinced that, in the  end, it is the shortest and best route to take.
39.2 Mr President, it goes without saying that education is UNESCO’s greatest mission. I strongly expect  UNESCO to further demonstrate its leadership in the United Nations system in the achievement of the goals of  education for all (EFA). Japan, through its Basic Education for Growth Initiative, is actively supporting that effort.  Indeed, we would like to further strengthen our aid for education, particularly in Africa, with the emphasis on human- centred development, which was one of the pillars of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development. I  would also like to touch upon the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (DESD) (2005-
2014) in which UNESCO is serving as the lead agency. That decade is about influencing the environmental, societal  and economic dimensions of human life. Raising awareness on global issues and changing earlier values and lifestyles  are indispensable for coping with the challenge of attaining sustainable development. For that reason, I hope that  activities based on the DESD International Implementation Scheme will be undertaken speedily under UNESCO’s  leadership.
39.3 Mr President, before I turn to the science programmes, let me express my heartfelt sympathy to the victims of  the hurricanes that struck the United States recently and of the tsunamis in the Indian Ocean region. We commend  UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission on its outstanding initiative, in collaboration with affected  countries in the region, in establishing a tsunami early warning system. Japan also cooperates in various programmes
208  for the prevention of tsunami disasters by offering its own experience and accumulated know-how. It is currently  preparing to establish the International Centre for Water Hazard and Risk Management under the auspices of UNESCO.  We will continue to contribute to capacity-building for disaster prevention through research and training activities.
39.4 In regard to bioethics, we highly commend the draft declaration formulated by the International Bioethics  Committee (IBC). Japan will be hosting the next session of the Committee to be held in Tokyo this coming December.  We hope the upcoming IBC session will take the important step of confirming the significance of the declaration.
39.5 Mr President, the draft international convention against doping in sport aims to promote sport, which  contributes to world peace as extolled in the UNESCO Constitution, by eliminating doping. We greatly wish to see this  convention adopted at this session. As for the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of  cultural expressions, Japan strongly supports the concept of cultural diversity. However, we consider that the current  draft still has some points to be clarified. We therefore hope that further efforts will be made at this General Conference  so that the discussion satisfies as many Member States as possible.
39.6 Regarding the intangible cultural heritage, more than 20 countries, including Japan, have ratified the  Convention. I strongly hope that it will come into force and promptly urge more States to ratify this very important  instrument. Mr President, since 1999, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, as the UNESCO Director-General, has been proceeding  with the prioritization of projects and with organizational reforms such as decentralization. Japan highly commends  Mr Matsuura for his efforts and if his re-appointment is approved at this session, we will continue to support his work  actively. We would like to see him develop a long-term vision for UNESCO and carry out further reforms.
39.7 Finally, Mr President, it is my firm belief that UNESCO is a unique intellectual international organization  capable not only of removing the friction between the ideas of “universality” and “diversity” which is sometimes the  cause of conflict in the world, but also of providing a forum for dialogue to promote mutual understanding among  Member States and signposts to guide the international community in the future. Thank you very much for your  attention.   :א ٤٠,١ ،،א אא א א ، א אא.א א א א א א ،.
(40.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your wide-ranging, interesting statement, and thank you for the kind  congratulations. We now give the floor to the honourable Volodymyr Ogryzko, First Deputy, Minister for Foreign Affairs  of Ukraine.  (The President continues in English)
40.2 You have the floor, Excellency.
41.1 Mr Ogryzko (Ukraine):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished colleagues, allow  me, Mr President, first of all to congratulate you on your unanimous election to this high post. We welcome the  admission of Brunei Darussalam to the UNESCO family. Mr President, this year we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary  of UNESCO. It is a very important stage in UNESCO’s work which has reached the age of maturity, with deep  knowledge and enormous experience. It means that we are not only proud of all that UNESCO has done in the past  decades. We can, I am sure, also look with optimism to the future. We do hope that UNESCO can successfully fulfil its  strategic priorities and will be ready for further modernization and to concentrate on the programmes where concrete  results can be obtained. That is why, Mr President, Ukraine supports the principal priorities of the Draft Programme and  Budget for the next biennium, its target- and results-oriented nature, and in particular its focus on attaining the  Millennium Development Goals and achieving sustainable development. At the same time, it is important to identify, to  test and to deploy new innovative modalities of action for the Organization, most notably in the field of capacity- building at the national and regional levels, in order to reflect the new challenges. Dear colleagues, we think that the  main challenge that UNESCO faces today is globalization. This process has to be examined in order to avoid its  harmful consequences for cultural diversity. In this context, Ukraine considers that the dynamism of technological  progress and its impact on the various forms of coexistence, on culture, and on linguistic diversity calls for the  development of an appropriate international mechanism. We do believe that such a mechanism should combine the  efforts of all States to safeguard their cultural identities. Ukraine, being home to more than 130 ethnic minorities,  understands the complexity of this task.
41.2 We would like to acclaim UNESCO’s efforts devoted to enhancing the contribution of cultural heritage in all  its forms to social cohesion, to nation-building in post conflict situations and to economic development. Ukraine pays  special attention to the fact that cultural heritage is a key component of national identity, and is rapidly becoming a  serious factor for economic growth, development, social cohesion and peaceful coexistence. Today, Mr President, we  would like to present to all of the delegations a small sample of Trypillian civilization, which is not only part of our
209  national, European, heritage, but also of our common world heritage. Mr President, cultural heritage is playing an  increasingly important role in providing young people with a sense of who they are, where they come from, and what  their lives mean. We fully support the Organization’s activities focused on encouraging youth participation in all of  UNESCO’s programmes. This is another challenge for our Organization. In this regard Ukraine has offered the use of  its ARTEK International Youth and Children Centre for the common interests of UNESCO Member States. Such a  centre would become the first centre devoted to youth under the auspices of UNESCO. We consider that ARTEK could  be a tool for capacity-building in working with youth, and we would be proud if one day it hosted a Universal Forum of  Youth.
41.3 Mr President, I would like to stress that UNESCO, in general, needs to strengthen its role as a laboratory for  the prevention of social conflict. In this regard, our Organization should give greater priority to multidisciplinary  research on social processes, in particular the development of civil institutions and the promotion of democratic  behaviour. Ukraine suggests that the subject of the sustainable development of societies should become a kind of a  building block to deal with the five Major Programmes in various areas. We therefore suggest that integrated strategies  be developed to deal with the risks and threats within UNESCO’s fields of competence.
41.4 Mr President, as I already mentioned at the last session of the Executive Board, next April we will  commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, the worst human-made disaster in history. We should not  allow it to turn into a “forgotten catastrophe” of the past. Over time, its consequences are not becoming easier to live  with, they are just changing in nature. We hope that the international community will actively participate in the  scientific conference to be organized next spring in Kiev in order to analyse the effectiveness of measures taken in the  aftermath of Chernobyl, to review the work that has been accomplished, and to outline an action plan for the future.
41.5 Mr President, looking into the future of UNESCO, we think that the question of the quality of life has to  become the main line of the Organization’s activities. The constant improvement of the quality of life in all spheres –  education, ecology, culture and information – is now at the forefront of human priorities. Finally, I would like to  express my hope that the next 60 years of UNESCO’s activities will be as fruitful as those of the past. Thank you,  Mr President.   :א ٤٢,١ ،،א אא א א ، א ،.א א א א א א  .א
(42.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, honourable Minister, for your instructive address, and may I say how much I appreciate your  generous congratulations. Now, the honourable Margaret Austin, Chairperson of the New Zealand National Commission  for UNESCO has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
42.2 You have the floor, Your Excellency.
43.1 Ms Austin (New Zealand):  E te whare, E tu nei, Tena Koe. E nga iwi, E nga karangatanga maha, o nga hau e wha, o Te Ao Whanui.  Tenei te mihi atu ki a koutou katoa. I greet this house, all people, all voices, all the many relations from the four winds  of the whole wide world; I greet you all from the land of the long white cloud, Aotearoa New Zealand. We welcome  this opportunity to compliment the Director-General on what has been achieved during the last six years and  unequivocally support his candidacy for a further term in office. We trust that it will result in cementing in place current  reforms which are aimed at efficiency, transparency and application of the principles of performance-based  management, in which patronage has no place, and that the SMART approach as set out in document 33 C/5 is  faithfully adhered to in every aspect of UNESCO’s work.
43.2 We believe that the key roles of UNESCO as a laboratory of ideas, a standard-setter, a clearing-house, a  capacity-builder and a catalyst for international cooperation have never been more important. Of equal significance  must be acknowledging the roles of the sectors in achieving these ideals separately as well as collectively, with far  greater emphasis on interdisciplinarity than is apparent in 2005. I look out at the nations assembled here in the interests  of dialogue, peace and security of mankind and I am reminded that we live in a world of nations without borders that is  challenging us to give new meaning to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights for those who choose to migrate, for  those who are displaced, for divided families and for those whose freedoms are threatened. We have the means but we  will never achieve our goals in an environment of hatred and fear, of poverty and injustice, of repression and corruption.  Tolerance on its own is not enough. We need understanding and respect as well as a commitment from all Member  States to recognize the worth of their citizens and, at this time of the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO’s founding,  greater commitment to achieving the education for all (EFA) goals by 2015. Jacques Delors gave UNESCO and the  world a blueprint for the school curriculum, but how many can actually declare that they are delivering learning to  know, learning to do, learning to be, and learning to live together through the curriculum and hence to their citizens.
210  New Zealand is doing very well in achieving balance, coherence and coverage of these elements of the curriculum but  we too have a long way to go to integrate values, multidisciplinary studies and a focus on the learner and learning as  opposed to teaching into the curriculum.
43.3 As the lead agency for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014),  UNESCO has a unique opportunity to provide leadership for young people and whole communities to ensure that  people acknowledge their responsibility to use scarce resources wisely, to draw attention to environmental management,  and to reward individuals and groups who are modelling wise practice. We need to engage the media in good news  stories and to celebrate achievements. The New Zealand National Commission launched an ambitious programme on
4 March this year and already a number of projects have been aligned on it. Achieving sustainable futures requires  governments to provide policy direction for people in their own communities to build economic bases to use their  natural and human resources effectively. New Zealand is particularly interested in working constructively with the  Pacific nations through the now fully staffed Apia Office in such endeavours, and partnering Local and Indigenous  Knowledge Systems (LINKS) projects and small island developing States (SIDS) to achieve positive outcomes.
43.4 New Zealand is aware of the importance attached by the Director-General to culture and diversity and with  this in mind, New Zealand is responding to some unfortunate incidents in our country; and our National Commission  has worked with the New Zealand Human Rights Commission to get young people involved in debating the issues.  Some 400 participated in nine locations and then 40 of them came together for a cultural diversity forum recently and  challenged the 450 present with a declaration which I volunteered to present to this assembly during this plenary speech.  They want greater awareness of their cultural identity, recognition of the Treaty of Waitangi in New Zealand, an end to  discrimination and an appreciation of diversity, and they aspire to a fully inclusive society through education. Our  young people are innovative, articulate, committed and generous. The future is in good hands but they must be  empowered and included. We are disappointed at the absence of direct reference to youth in the Draft Programme and  Budget in document 33 C/5.
43.5 An initiative taken in 2001 at the General Conference to bring together the Presidents and Chairs of National  Commissions has provided a forum for continued dialogue, with the result that we have been able to provide the  Director-General with support and recommendations to enhance the importance of National Commissions as a unique  network within UNESCO. It has been a privilege to chair this group, and it is most satisfying to observe the  commitment being made to strengthening their operational capacity and to increasing their participation in programme  implementation and evaluation. We place great importance on the round of regional consultations and the availability of  Participation Programme funding to enable National Commissions to engage in projects which provide UNESCO with  visibility and status. We applaud the recognition being given to National Commissions this biennium although we are  conscious that some Member States do not provide adequate governance and resource capacity at the present time.  Addressing this along with greater cooperation with the field offices should allow us to report on positive outcomes at  the next General Conference. Much has been made of decentralization and we believe that the key to its success lies  with the field offices, the Member States and their National Commissions, each with defined roles, responsibilities and  accountabilities. We look forward to these considerations being included in the way forward. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٤٦,١ א א ، א ، א.א א א א ،.
(46.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much for your interesting statement. There is only one speaker left on the list. We now give  the floor to His Excellency Andrei Neguta, Ambassador of the Republic of Moldova to UNESCO.
45.1 M. Neguta (République de Moldova) :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les chefs de délégation, Mesdames, Messieurs, la délégation moldove a  l’honneur de vous présenter des informations sur son activité au sein de l’Organisation. Pendant la période écoulée  depuis la précédente session de la Conférence générale, la Moldova s’est employée à améliorer encore sa collaboration  avec l’UNESCO. C’est un engagement qui s’inscrit pleinement dans le contexte de l’intégration européenne de mon  pays. La visite en Moldova en mai dernier du Directeur général, M. Koïchiro Matsuura, a revêtu une grande importance  pour les relations de notre pays avec l’UNESCO, lesquelles ont pu être abordées de façon approfondie sous tous leurs  aspects, ce qui nous a permis de bénéficier d’un appui constructif. Cette visite, couronnée de succès, a renforcé la  coopération entre la Moldova et l’UNESCO. À ce propos, je tiens à remercier le Directeur général et les services de  l’Organisation, notamment les bureaux de Moscou et de Venise, qui ont apporté une aide concrète à mon pays.
45.2 J’ai l’honneur de vous informer que le gouvernement de mon pays voudrait régler la question relative au  retard intervenu dans le paiement de ses contributions statutaires. Les dettes se sont accumulées lors des premières  années de son indépendance et de son adhésion à l’Organisation, soit jusqu’en 1999, période pendant laquelle il n’a pas  pu effectuer les paiements nécessaires. La Conférence générale a pris acte de cette situation par sa résolution 66 adoptée
211  à sa 32e session. La Moldova a réglé en 2004 et 2005 un montant de 700 000 dollars É.-U., somme impressionnante  pour le budget d’un petit pays, et elle s’engage à verser le solde de ses arriérés de contributions dans les dix ans à venir,  tout en acquittant l’intégralité de ses contributions pour l’année en cours. La demande du gouvernement de la Moldova  et la proposition de restructuration de sa dette figurent dans le document 33 C/11 Add. Nous demandons à la  Conférence générale de bien vouloir accéder à la demande contenue dans l’annexe II du document 33 C/11 Add. Le  gouvernement moldove désire bénéficier du droit de vote afin d’améliorer son activité au sein de l’UNESCO, et aussi  régulariser la situation de ses arriérés de contributions statutaires à l’Organisation. Il tient à confirmer son attachement  aux objectifs de l’UNESCO et désire participer pleinement aux actions de l’Organisation. La Moldova est  reconnaissante de la compréhension manifestée à l’égard de ses difficultés financières et espère que sa demande recevra  un accueil favorable.
45.3 Permettez-moi maintenant d’aborder un autre sujet, celui de la République de Moldova et du patrimoine  mondial. En juillet dernier, à Durban en Afrique du Sud, un monument moldove a été inscrit pour la première fois sur la  Liste du patrimoine mondial. À côté de biens d’autres pays, la localité « Rudi » de Moldova fait partie de la liste  mondiale de 812 monuments avec « l’Arc Géodésique Struve ». Nous poursuivons nos efforts dans ce domaine. À la  suite des entretiens qui ont eu lieu à Chisinau lors de la visite du Directeur général, un groupe d’experts du Bureau de  l’UNESCO de Venise est venu travailler en Moldova. Le précieux appui dont nous avons pu bénéficier nous permet  d’espérer l’inscription prochaine sur la Liste du patrimoine mondial d’un site historique nommé « Orheiul Vechi »  (« l’Ancien Orhei »), situé à proximité de la capitale moldove. Mon pays examine actuellement 25 conventions qu’il n’a  pas encore ratifiées. L’une d’elles notamment, relative à la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel, est déjà  devant le Parlement, et une décision positive devrait être prise au cours du mois d’octobre. Nous espérons pouvoir ainsi  accélérer l’entrée en vigueur de cette importante convention. Mesdames et Messieurs, la préparation - qui sera suivie  probablement de l’adoption - de nouveaux instruments tels que la Convention internationale contre le dopage dans le  sport et la Déclaration relative à des normes universelles en matière de bioéthique doit retenir particulièrement  l’attention. Nous sommes en faveur de ces instruments qui revêtent une grande importance pour nos citoyens. Nous  souhaitons vous faire connaître notre avis au sujet de la Convention sur la protection de la diversité des contenus  culturels et des expressions artistiques. La République de Moldova considère que l’adoption de cette Convention jettera  les bases d’un véritable droit international dans ce domaine et que ce texte tiendra compte de toute la palette d’aspects  pertinents. Dans mon pays, on considère que défendre la diversité culturelle, c’est défendre les valeurs humaines  universelles qui s’attachent à la personne. Nous respectons pleinement l’avis selon lequel certains articles ne sont pas  suffisamment bien définis. Mais il est bien connu que la perfectibilité est infinie et, à notre avis, le texte de la  Convention présenté à la Conférence ne contient aucun risque pour une culture ou une autre. La délégation moldove  propose de discuter le texte du projet de convention et de l’adopter. Cette convention représente un enjeu important  pour le développement culturel de notre pays.
45.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, il est aussi bien connu que la réussite économique dépend directement du système  éducatif et que le capital humain est le plus efficient des facteurs de production. Le programme mené en Moldova par  l’UNESCO dans le domaine de l’éducation est établi dans le cadre d’une étroite collaboration entre la Commission  nationale moldove et le Bureau de l’UNESCO à Moscou et l’Institut international de l’UNESCO pour la planification  de l’éducation. Cette année, la République de Moldova a été incluse parmi les pays admis à bénéficier de l’Initiative de  mise en œuvre accélérée de l’Éducation pour tous. Nous n’oublions pas la jeunesse, qui participe activement à toutes les  activités. Je mentionnerai à ce sujet que des jeux delphiques ont été organisés en Moldova en 2004 pour favoriser les  échanges interculturels entre élèves et étudiants.
45.5 S’agissant de nos activités dans le domaine de la science, il convient de signaler, entre autres manifestations  internationales, la réunion consacrée en 2005 à la chimie écologique, à laquelle ont participé 400 chercheurs,  représentant 38 pays. Nos scientifiques attachent aussi de plus en plus d’importance aux problèmes de bioéthique.
45.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, le Directeur général en exercice est le seul candidat à l’élection à ce poste. La  délégation moldove est certaine que M. Koïchiro Matsuura méritera sa confiance lors de son nouveau mandat. Nous lui  souhaitons beaucoup de succès. La République de Moldova l’appuiera toujours dans ses efforts pour améliorer les  activités de l’UNESCO. La délégation moldove est d’avis que tous les pays devraient unir leurs efforts afin d’accroître  les résultats positifs des actions de notre Organisation. La Moldova considère cela comme une mission et une  orientation d’importance stratégique de sa politique. Nous tenons à réaffirmer ici notre totale volonté d’étendre nos  relations avec l’UNESCO dans les domaines les plus divers. Je vous remercie de votre aimable attention.    :א ٤٦,١ אא א ، א א.، א א א ،.
(44) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for that interesting address. I now give the floor to the last speaker,  the honourable Hernán Sandoval Orellana, Ambassador of Chile.
212  (The President continues in English)
46.2 You have the floor, Ambassador.
(47.1) Mr Sandoval Orellana (Chile) (translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished delegates, we  first congratulate the distinguished representative of Oman on his election as President of this Conference and commend the  work we are doing. I have the honour and the privilege of representing the Government of Chile at this session of the  General Conference, coinciding as it does with the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, which the Chilean people are also  celebrating. We welcome the entry of Brunei Darussalam into the Organization as a new member. We believe that peace can  only be achieved when all the world's inhabitants have access to education, the benefits of science, cultural diversity and the  new communication technologies. Nevertheless, one might ask what have we failed to do and what remains to be done, in  UNESCO's fields of competence, to transform those aims into reality? We are confident that the debates of this 33rd session  of the General Conference will help answer those questions. My country's delegation will be playing its part here.
(47.2) Mr President, we can confidently say today that thanks to UNESCO's efforts the international community  gives priority to agreement on shared values as necessary to the achievement of sustainable human development. This has  made possible a collective awareness of the threats posed by certain scientific advances, requiring that such advances be  accompanied by universally shared ethical values. Chile fully endorses this line of reasoning. It therefore supports the  draft declaration on universal norms on bioethics. In that connection, permit me to emphasize that solidarity is the  essence of and a guide for multilateral action. And we should like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with  the countries of Central America and with the United States of America for the damage they suffered from the recent  hurricanes. As a matter of solidarity, Chile therefore endorses the appeal made in this room by the distinguished  representative of the Dominican Republic to join the efforts of the international community, especially in the Latin  America region, to help stabilize the Republic of Haiti. My country, in response to the appeal by the United Nations, is  maintaining in our sister nation a large contingent of police and armed forces which, in conjunction with the forces of  other countries, will help smooth the political process shortly to culminate in representative legislative and presidential  elections. In addition to that effort, we have since last May been running a school feeding programme which provides  highly nutritious food to Haitian children, similar to what we are doing in our own country. In view of the programme’s  success, we have asked the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) to associate itself with this  effort so that it can be continued.
(47.3) Mr President, I believe that I should highlight the application, as a sign of my country’s commitment to  UNESCO’s activities, of three key ideas established in the international community thanks to the Organization and which,  in my Government’s opinion, make a fundamental contribution to bringing about peace. The first is quality education for  all. We are pleased to inform this assembly that Chile has made considerable progress in meeting the six Dakar goals,  with regard to high-quality education for all. Changes in the Chilean Constitution have set a universal minimum of 12  years’ schooling and all our policies are now devoted to radically extending the coverage of both nursery and higher  education. Nevertheless, as in the rest of the Latin America and Caribbean region, we must still address the subject of  equality. In order to work towards it, we need the right policies and greater resources. I therefore wish to reiterate the  proposal made two years ago by Jacques Delors to create a world education fund financed with 1% of the arms  expenditure of the Member States of the United Nations. Dear colleagues, if we wish to arm our peoples let us do it with  the only legitimate weapon, education.
(47.4) The second is cultural diversity, unanimously proclaimed by the Member States in the wake of the terrorist  acts of 11 September 2001. We are convinced that only respect for cultural differences and what should be the resulting  intercultural dialogue can help us resolve many conflicts whose origins are undoubtedly of a cultural nature. Chile  accordingly supports the preliminary draft convention on the protection of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic  expressions, which should strengthen cultural solidarity internationally.
(47.5) The third has to do with the objectives of UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy and is the new concept of  human security. Evils such as poverty and famine, environmental deterioration and the degradation of water resources,  terrorism and all forms of violence against women and children and the violation of human rights, inter alia, are threats  that may be at least as destructive for our peoples as armed conflicts. UNESCO’s transdisciplinary project “Towards a  Culture of Peace” is undeniably a useful tool whose values and basic tenets are part of our school curricula. Aware of the  relationship between human security and education, Chile is part of the working group set up to bring about the creation  of a fund to reduce poverty and hunger around the world. I think I should stress the fact that my Government has decided  to support the pilot project regarding taxes on airline tickets. Consequently, from 1 January 2006, there will be a $2  surcharge on all international flights leaving Chile in support of this initiative.
(47.6) Mr President, distinguished delegates, we are convinced that the shortfalls in training for harmonious living  greatly complicate the fight against poverty. So, having eliminated malnutrition, we are in Chile seeking to improve  citizenship training, educating in pluralism and solidarity, non-discrimination and environmental protection. With other  Latin American countries we are in this respect promoting a joint initiative to advance citizenship training through  evaluation of learning opportunities and outcomes in our education systems, as a basis for their improvement. In the same  direction, I wish to highlight the fact that with our neighbouring countries, Argentina, Peru and Bolivia, we are jointly  drawing up history textbooks with complementary approaches involving understanding of the other with regard to the  conflicts that sometimes set us apart in the nineteenth century, and that we are determined to put behind us.
(47.7) We certainly share with UNESCO the view that, to safeguard the cultural and natural heritage sites, together  with the intangible heritage of humanity, we must also be capable of understanding and dealing in a timely manner with the  causes of terrorist acts or acts of the human being against nature that imperil these universal legacies. In this connection, we  value the programmes promoted by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, which have helped advance  knowledge and awareness of the environment, and its contribution to scientific and technological capacity-building. And  because we consider these matters to be more important than ever for the international community, we deem it necessary to  maintain budgetary priority in order that the Commission may carry on with this fundamental work.
(47.8) It would be remiss of me not to mention a subject brought up by the Director-General. We live in a world  bearing the mark of uncertainty. Just as the globalization process has become part of our daily lot, which obliges us to  confront new problems, we must by the same token learn to live in a world without certainties. It will undoubtedly be  easier to live with globalization if solidarity and the knowledge society are constituted as an offsetting factor.
(47.9) Mr President, finally we voice our thanks to UNESCO, and to the Organization’s Division of Social Sciences  Research and Policy, for having agreed to the holding of the first World Philosophy Day in Chile, on 24 November next. We  want the meeting to contribute to developing critical and plural thinking on the different problems confronting humanity  today. But what we want is a thinking that is also capable of being turned into deeds, in line with UNESCO’s action from the  outset. I wish to invite you, distinguished delegates, together to undertake the ethical, political, social and cultural task  without resting until we have built peace in the minds of the men and women of the twenty-first century, to echo our Nobel  literature laureate Gabriela Mistral. We hope that this World Philosophy Day will help ensure that UNESCO continues to be  a pluralist, diverse and democratic forum, at the vanguard of human thought. This justifies and gives meaning to our  presence in this multilateral forum but, even more so, gives meaning to our lives. Thank you very much.   :א ٤٨ א ، א א א א ،.א א א א א א ، א א א א א א א ،.א א אא ، א א א א ، א ،.
(48) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Your Excellency, for the comprehensive information in your valuable statement and for your kind  congratulations. Please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we are much obliged and very grateful to the  interpreters for enduring with us the difficulty of staying on until this late hour, which goes to show how professional  they are, so many, many thanks to them. Distinguished colleagues, I do not want to keep you any longer, the meeting is  closed and we shall meet again at 3 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you.  The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 50   Se levanta la sesión a las 13.50  Заседание закрывается в 13.50  א א١,٥٠א   会议于 13 时 50 分结束