(1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Good afternoon and welcome to this meeting. Before  we move on to the subject we are examining, that is, the announcement of the results of the election of Members of the  Executive Board, I shall inform you of the conclusions reached by the General Committee in its meeting this morning.  The most important subject to be brought before the General Conference is the inclusion of a new item on its agenda,  namely “African Position Paper on the State of World Heritage in Africa and Proposal for the Creation of an African  World Heritage Fund”. The General Committee agreed to give the item the number 5.37 and to entrust it to Commission  IV. I should like to remind you that Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure endorses the addition of new items of important  and urgent character with the approval of a two-thirds majority of the Members present and voting. Since the General  Committee considered this item to be an item of important and urgent character, it agreed that it should be submitted to  the General Conference. I therefore invite you to consider it. Are there any other proposals? May I take it that the General  Conference approves the inclusion of this item, which will be agenda item 5.37 and will be entrusted to Commission IV?  I see no objection. It is so decided.  Election of Members of the Executive Board  Élection de membres du Conseil exécutif  Elección de Miembros del Consejo Ejecutivo  Выборы членов Исполнительного совета  א א  א 选举执行局委员   :א ٢,١ א א ، א א א.א ، ، א ، ، א א א א٥א א אא א א א ، א א.א ، א א א .א א א א א א.א א א א א ، א א א א א א א.א א א א א ، א אא א.א א א א:א א א ، ، א ، א א א א.א א א א א.א ، :א ، א א ، א.א.א ،:א ، א א ، א א ، א.، א א א.א א א ،:א ، ، א ، א ، א.א .א א.א א:−א ، ، ، ، א ، ،א א א א.א א.א א.א − א א ،:א−א א א א.، א ، א، א א א א א.، א אא ، א א א א ،.
(2.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  We now move on to the subject you have been waiting for, distinguished colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen,  as you all know, today the election of Members of the Executive Board took place in Room V under the supervision of  Her Excellency Zeljana Zovko, Ambassador, Permanent Delegate to UNESCO of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Vice- President of the General Conference. I should like to express my gratitude to her for the excellent work she has  accomplished, as the election went off smoothly and well. I should also like to thank all of you who participated with her  in this excellent work. It is a pleasure for me to read out to you now the names of the 29 Member States elected to sit on  the Executive Board for the next four years, and I will start with the electoral groups. I shall only announce the names of  the winners without mentioning the number of votes, as I will afterwards given the floor to Her Excellency the  Ambassador, the Returning Officer supervising the elections to inform you how many votes each State received. First of  all, here are the names of the successful States from Group I: Norway, Portugal, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom of  Great Britain and Northern Ireland. I should like to offer my sincere congratulations to these four successful States. In  Group II, the successful States are: Lithuania, Serbia and Montenegro and Azerbaijan. I should also like to congratulate  those States on their success. Group III: Bahamas, Colombia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,  Brazil and Mexico. I will consider that to be applause for these there groups. And now Group IV: China, India, Japan,  Thailand, Fiji and Nepal. I congratulate these States and wish them success. It seems that I have to applaud first for you  to join me in clapping. Group V(a): South Africa, Ethiopia, Benin, Nigeria, Togo, Democratic Republic of the Congo and  Uganda. I congratulate these States and wish them success. Group V(b) is the last one left. So, Arab Group V(b): Egypt,  Lebanon and Algeria. Of course, I warmly congratulate all the winners and wish better luck to the others. I hope that you  will try again in two years’ time. I wish you success. I now give the floor to Her Excellency the Permanent Delegate for  Bosnia and Herzegovina to present the details.  (The President continues in English)
2.2 You have the floor, Ambassador.
3.1 Ms Zovko (Bosnia and Herzegovina) (Returning Officer):  Thank you, Mr President. I see that everybody is celebrating with the winners at the moment, but I think you  are interested in the votes as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would first of all like to thank you for  entrusting me with the task of supervising the elections of the Executive Board. This was not an easy task, and it was a  very, very sensitive one, so I thank you very much for entrusting me with it, and also for giving me a very good team to  work with. Before I read all these results, I would like to express my appreciation to the six tellers, Ms Julie Mebes  (Netherlands), Ms Martina Václaviková (Czech Republic), Mr Jorge Patino (Panama), Ms Anne Siwicki (Australia),  Ms Rasoanaivo Ravaomalala (Madagascar), and Ms Souad El Idrissi El Hassani (Morocco) for the time and effort they  devoted to the electoral process. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to members the  Secretariat for their support and their professional conduct of the vote-counting exercise. Among others, I would like to  express my gratitude to Ms Magda Landry, Mr Michee Detinho, Mr Jorge Espinal, Mr Jaco du Toit, Ms Lucinda Ramos  and Mr Ronan Viev. Also I would like to thank the legal counsellor, Mr John Donaldson, for his professional  supervision of the election.
3.2 I shall now read out, by electoral group, the results of today’s ballot for the election of Members of the  Executive Board.
3.3 Group I, in which there are four seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 3; names of the Member States candidates and the  number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Norway: 165; Portugal: 163;  Luxembourg: 159; United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: 154. Therefore, the following Member  States are elected Members of the Executive Board: Norway, Portugal, Luxembourg and United Kingdom of Great  Britain and Northern Ireland. Congratulations.
3.4 Group II, in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: 1; invalid ballot papers: 6; names of the Member States candidates and number of  votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Lithuania: 164; Serbia and Montenegro: 161;  Azerbaijan: 158. Therefore, the following Member States are elected Members of the Executive Board: Lithuania,  Serbia and Montenegro and Azerbaijan. Congratulations.
3.5 Group III, in which there are six seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 4; names of the Member States candidates and number  of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Bahamas: 126; Colombia: 122; Saint  Kitts and Nevis: 122; Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: 122; Brazil: 119; Mexico: 119; Argentina: 118. Therefore, the  following Member States are elected Members of the Executive Board: Bahamas, Colombia, Saint Kitts and Nevis,  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Brazil and Mexico. Congratulations.
3.6 Group IV, in which there are six seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present  session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 1; names of the Member States candidates and number  of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: China: 160; Japan: 151; Thailand: 149;  India: 145; Fiji: 104; Nepal: 100; Kazakhstan: 90; Palau: 62. Therefore, the following Member States are elected  Members of the Executive Board: China, Japan, Thailand, India, Fiji and Nepal. Congratulations.
3.7 Group V(a), in which there are seven seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 2; names of the Member States candidates and  number of votes secured by each of them in descending order of the number of votes: South Africa: 147; Ethiopia: 144;  Benin: 143; Nigeria: 128; Togo: 110; Democratic Republic of the Congo: 108; Uganda: 105; Botswana: 97; the Gambia:
72; Equatorial Guinea: 36. Therefore, the following Member States are elected Members of the Executive Board: South  Africa, Ethiopia, Benin, Nigeria, Togo, Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. Congratulations.
3.8 Group V(b), in which there are three seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the  present session: 183; absent: 4; abstentions: none; invalid ballot papers: 4; names of the Member States candidates and  number of votes secured by each of them, in descending order of the number of votes: Egypt: 106; Lebanon: 91; Algeria:
74; Qatar: 72; Libyan Arab Jamahiriya: 63; Saudi Arabia: 56; Iraq: 43. Therefore, the following Member States are  elected Members of the Executive Board: Egypt, Lebanon and Algeria. Congratulations. Thank you.  (Applause)
4. The President:  Thank you very much. This evening’s plenary was the easiest one we have had. So, I expect to see you on  Wednesday 19 October for the next plenary meeting, the serious one, and the most important one, although today’s  meeting was perhaps more important for many of you. Thank you very much.      The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h.30  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.30  Заседание закрывается в 17.30  א א٥,٣٠א   会议于 17 时 30 分结束