(1.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Distinguished audience, good morning. I hope this will  be a beautiful day for you. As usual, I would like to thank you all for keeping to the allotted time, and sometimes even for  talking less time than that. I would like to say that all views have reached the General Conference. I would also like to  mention that if any of you has prepared a longer address and would like that address to be printed and included in the  minutes or records, they can hand their text to the Secretariat and deliver a shorter version so as to keep to the required  time.
(1.2) Here is the thought for the day: if you love life, do not waste time, because time is the substance of which life  is made. The first address this morning will be that of the Honourable Minister Dr Abdulsalam Al Joufi, Minister of  Education of Yemen. Honourable Minister, you have the floor.  א ٢,١  :)א(א א ، א א א א ، א א א ، א א א ، א א אא א،א א א א א א א.אא א א.א א א، א א ، א ، א א א ، א א א א ، א.א א א א א א א ، א .א א א א א א א א א.א א א א א  .א
(2.1)  Dr Al Joufi (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):  President of the General Conference, Director-General, honourable ministers, distinguished ambassadors and  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to convey my sincere compliments to His Excellency  Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan on his unanimous election as President of the 33rd session of the General  Conference. I hope that under his leadership, the Conference will achieve every success. I would also like to assure His  Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, of Yemen’s strong support for him in his second term.  We hope that he will bring to completion the plan for the financial and administrative reform of UNESCO that he began  in his first term, so as to make this distinguished Organization run more smoothly. I am pleased to congratulate this  Organization on the occasion of its 60th anniversary. This will certainly be an opportunity not only to review and  evaluate, but also to look far ahead at the problems of humanity and at its future. My country will organize activities on a  national level, cooperating and liasing with UNESCO, to celebrate the anniversary of its foundation. I should also not  omit to express my greetings to the Islamic countries and Muslims all around the world for the blessed month of  Ramadan.
(2.2) Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, the issue that deserves to be given the foremost priority is education of  every level and type. In this regard, I would like to set out before this distinguished gathering what my country, the  Republic of Yemen, has been able to achieve to realize the Millennium Development Goals and those of the Dakar  Forum, under the direct guidance of His Excellency Ali Abdullah Saleh, President of the Republic. Thus far we have put  into practice the three most important strategies in education: a strategy for basic education, which covers nine years of  public education; a strategy for technical and vocational education; and a strategy for eliminating illiteracy and for adult  education, taken as a complement to and a reinforcement of the aforementioned two strategies. By means of these three  strategies, the Republic of Yemen has been able to determine the quantitative and qualitative process of educational  reform. In particular, it has been able to determine the financial allocations set aside for education on a national level, as  well as the financial support from abroad for such purposes. I should also point out here that work on a national level has  been far-reaching and intensive. The budget for education has risen to account for over 20% of the national budget.  International support takes on a special importance although it is still modest as compared to what is needed, given rising  demand and the strain on the budget of one of the less developed countries. I would like to take the chance at this  gathering to ask once again the States that support the programme for educational reform in Yemen to take into account  the increasing need for financial resources and expertise to expand the basic structures and foster excellence. We are  aware that any progress in education has an immediate effect on the fight against disease and poverty, helping to ensure  balanced development and progress with certified results. The Yemeni government is currently engaged in the  preparation of a strategy for higher education and another one for secondary education. These two strategies will  constitute a framework for development based on careful planning and scientific prediction, ensuring the position of  education as a top priority for my country’s government.
(2.3) President, ladies and gentlemen, my country attaches a special importance to cultural issues. Our heritage is  fundamentally one of a rich and varied culture. The Government of the Republic of Yemen is therefore favourably  impressed with the part that UNESCO has taken on in preserving cultural heritage in Yemen and in other countries. We  look forward to more interest and support from the international community to protect the heritage of Yemeni civilization.  The international convention for the support and protection of cultural diversity can constitute a reliable guarantee that  cultural identities will be preserved. These identities are threatened by globalization, and by the resulting neglect of the
120  human heritage – a heritage that bases itself on mutual respect and recognizes diversity, seeing it as a source of  cooperation, as a way to come to know one another without being constrained by a single model.
(2.4) Ladies and gentlemen, allow me finally to point out the Republic of Yemen’s wish to participate in the  programme for reforming the Organization and relations between its three governing bodies. In this context, we insist on  the importance of shared participation, and of preserving UNESCO’s universal character. UNESCO should be an  Organization in the service of international peace and security. To that end it should rely on the participation of all of its  Members; the Organization’s work should be planned with an eye on geographic balance and the even distribution of  duties. We therefore ask the General Conference to think deeply about the pertinent and valuable proposals aiming to  carry out reform and to make UNESCO – the greatest stronghold of thought and culture in the world – more open to  participation and more democratic. The Organization must not become a narrow club, or something more akin to a  committee of experts.
(2.5) President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, what threatens international peace and security  today is poverty, war and terrorism. To combat these three evils, we should therefore begin with a level-headed  consideration of the best way to confront them. We must look to the mechanisms of international cooperation, which are  based on a recognition of the peoples’ shared interests, and of what would ensure progress and prosperity for all of them.  The opposite would push all peoples into the furnace of wars and discord, which are ultimately not in the interests of any  party. Dialogue and cooperation, however, are a safety valve for all of humanity. UNESCO was created to preserve peace.  In order to fulfil this mission, it must understand the reasons behind wars. Chief among these, in our view, are poverty  and hegemonic aspirations. Let us fight poverty through education and balanced development. Let us fight hegemonic  aspirations by restraining them and by stating clearly that the welfare of humanity resides in cooperation, in diversity, and  in respect for identities, liberties and independence. To this effect we would like to thank UNESCO for its action in  conflict zones. We also wish to thank the Director-General for his report on what is taking place in the occupied Arab  territories and particularly in Jerusalem.
(2.6)  President of the General Conference, I would like in conclusion to repeat my best wishes for your presidency,  and to express my confidence that its work will be crowned with every success, under your wise leadership. May the  Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be with you.   :א ٣ ،א א א ، א א.، א א ، א א א א ، א  .א
(4.1) Mr Al-Obaid (Saudi Arabia) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the General Conference, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished audience, honourable heads and members of delegations, a kind  greeting to you all. On behalf of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, it gives me great pleasure to salute the work of UNESCO,  this global humanitarian organization, and to express appreciation of its persistent efforts to spread the values of peace,  tolerance and fraternity by means of its goals and programmes, and its educational, scientific and cultural activities. I am  also pleased to present the warmest compliments to his Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan on the occasion of his  nomination as President of the 33rd session of the UNESCO General Conference, and to wish him a successful term. I  would also like to present my compliments to his Excellency the Director-General of the Organization, Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura, on the occasion of his nomination for re-election, and to express my appreciation for his work and that of his  dear colleagues.
(4.2) Ladies and gentlemen, this year my country the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia lost the Servant of the Two Holy  Places, King Fahd bin Abdul Aziz, may God have mercy upon him. He was the foremost defender of education in my  country. He supported all of UNESCO’s decisions, and believed in its elevated principles and noble goals. He promoted  education both within the Kingdom and outside it. Today, in the reign of the Servant of the Two Holy Places, King  Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz, my country reasserts its belief in the principles of this Organization. My country takes pride in  being an effective member, one that supports the Organization’s efforts and activities. It asserts its preparation and  determination to benefit from the Organization’s work, programmes and activities, to take part in its initiatives, all of this  in the context of the Kingdom’s continued interaction with the United Nations organizations and with other world bodies.
(4.3) Ladies and gentlemen, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has participated together with the other Member States  in the successive international meetings of experts whose duty it was to examine the Preliminary Draft Convention on the  Protection of the Diversity of Cultural Contents and Artistic Expressions. The Kingdom hopes that it will meet with the  agreement of all. At the same time, it asserts its respect for other cultures in all their diversity. It appreciates the influence  that these cultures have had on human civilization, as well as their impact on the scientific, artistic and literary  achievements that the world has witnessed as a result of that diversity. The Kingdom supports the Declaration on  Universal Norms on Bioethics. This declaration puts into practice some of humanity’s shared interests, while respecting  the ethical principles of pure scientific research.
(4.4) Ladies and gentlemen, this 33rd session of the General Conference of UNESCO coincides with the sixtieth  anniversary of its foundation. Every single one of these years has seen the Organization’s efforts renewed. There have  been more and more achievements towards making the Member States’ hopes and wishes come true. One must fully  appreciate the current steps towards reform in the Organization’s structure, and one must fully support the content of the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007. We can perhaps agree that there are many great hopes and aspirations,  while the Organization’s resources are still limited. Perhaps this occasion provides an opportunity for the Organization to  review its fundraising mechanisms, and to examine the possibility of finding new sources of income to fund its  programmes. In so doing, it could continue to realize the hopes, aspirations and needs that increase year by year, and  nowhere more so than in our Arab world. Here, the illiteracy rate is among the highest in the world. The children who  grow up outside the school system are to be counted in tens of millions, all as a result of decreasing income levels on the  one hand, and instability in the Arab world and in other tense regions on the other hand. I would like to thank you all, and  may the Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be with you.   :א ٥ ، ،א ،א א אא א.א א א ، א א  .،א
(5) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your valuable yet succinct address. Thank you also for your  sincere compliments. The floor now goes to His Excellency Dr Abdullah Abdullah, Minister of Foreign Affairs of  Afghanistan. You have the floor.
6.1 Mr Abdullah (Afghanistan):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, it  gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Mr President, on your unanimous election to the Presidency of the 33rd  session of the General Conference of UNESCO, which coincides with the sixtieth anniversary of the founding of the
122  Organization. We are confident that, with your sense of purpose, wisdom and experience, you will guide the  deliberations of this important assembly to a successful conclusion.
6.2 During the celebrations yesterday, it was stated that UNESCO’s aims and objectives are just as valid now as  they were 60 years ago. The role of education, science, culture and communication in human development is as  essential today as it was then. This is in accordance with the spirit of UNESCO’s Constitution, and with the principles  on which the Organization was founded. Its purpose is to help governments and peoples to identify their development  needs in these important fields, and to devise innovative strategies to enable them to overcome the many obstacles and  challenges which may hinder their fulfilment.
6.3 There are, however, major differences between one region of the world and another, in the levels of  development; national cultures; technical and scientific skills; and access to education and learning opportunities.  UNESCO should, therefore, take the lead in providing guidance on new ways of implementing programmes of  assistance for countries most in need, in its various fields of competence.
6.4 The Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan therefore reaffirms its strong support for  UNESCO’s programme as outlined in the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 (33 C/5), which is based on  UNESCO’s efforts to ensure that education for all (EFA) is an integral part of the international development agenda.  The main goal of EFA is to eradicate illiteracy and provide universal access to primary education, and subsequently to  build the necessary capacity for the achievement of sustainable social and economic development and gender equality.  It should also be added that EFA is an essential prerequisite for promoting a culture of peace, justice and equality rather  than one of violence and aggression.
6.5 Since the liberation of Afghanistan my government has given top priority to ensuring that both boys and girls,  without discrimination, are given access to education. Moreover, the right to education for all citizens of Afghanistan,  regardless of gender, has been enshrined in the formulation of a new Constitution for the country. We are greatly  indebted to our many friends in the international community, who gave us their invaluable assistance to ensure that  millions of Afghan children are given access to the education and learning opportunities they need, in order to enable  them to recover their national pride and identity after many years of neglect and abuse.
6.6 It is only fitting that I should express my government’s support for the proposed programme for 2006-2007  and its gratitude to the Director-General of UNESCO for his invaluable help in the rehabilitation of our cultural heritage.  With his assistance, we have now done much to safeguard our museums, monuments, archaeological sites, music, art,  and traditional crafts, which are all part of our great culture. These are all of immense importance for the strengthening  of our cultural values, and for restoring our sense of national identity, dignity and pride. With the help not only of  UNESCO, but also of our friends in many parts of the world, we are now doing everything we can to look after and  preserve our cultural heritage, so that we can pass it on to future generations as a faithful record of our human  experience and history. It is our hope that this will also inspire those who come after us to work diligently for the  preservation of peace, democracy and justice for all.
6.7 UNESCO’s Constitution promotes the free flow of ideas, and Major Programme V, in particular, has been  designed to provide people with free access to information and knowledge, acknowledging everybody’s right to  freedom of speech and expression. In accordance with this programme, I am happy to inform you that the Government  of Afghanistan has taken both legal and policy decisions to promote freedom of speech and that of the press and media  throughout the country, along with the production of the high-quality teaching materials required for social and  economic progress. The recent establishment of the Afghan Independent Radio and Television Commission is one of  the steps already taken towards the achievement of this objective.
6.8 In conclusion, I quote the words of President Karzai, which reflect the views of the Afghan people: “We in  Afghanistan greatly value our membership of UNESCO, and participate actively in its governing bodies, since we know  how much they can contribute to the promotion of human dignity.” “UNESCO belongs not only to us, but also to future  generations. It must continue to inspire and motivate those who come after us. It should face realities (…) and should  gain in strength as the years go by.” It should be open to all and, in the spirit of the Constitution, continue to work for  universal peace and for the dignity of all members of the human race. I thank you for your attention.   :א ٧,١ ، אאא א א א.، א א א ،  .א
(7.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Your Excellency, for your address, and thank you also for your eloquent and  encouraging words. I now hand the floor to the Honourable Dato’ Tun Hussein Hishammuddin, Minister of Education of  Malaysia.  (The President continues in English)
7.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
8.1 Mr Hishamuddin (Malaysia):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Ministers, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  I take this opportunity at the outset to associate myself with previous speakers in congratulating Your Excellency,  Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, on your election as President of the General Conference at its 33rd session, and I am  confident that your able guidance and leadership will steer this Organization to greater heights. The Malaysian  delegation would also like to acknowledge that the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, as in the previous three  biennia, has achieved so much with so little. We from Asia and the Pacific are indeed very proud of Mr Matsuura’s  achievements, his genuine achievement in steering the considerable work accomplished by UNESCO over the last six  years. On behalf of the Malaysian delegation, I would like to congratulate him and express our full support for a new  mandate in view of Mr Matsuura’s sterling services to the Organization. Allow me also, Mr President, to take this  opportunity to congratulate and welcome Brunei Darussalam as the 191st Member State of UNESCO, and Singapore as  a Permanent Observer.
8.2 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I turn first to education for all (EFA). Today, at the threshold of the  sixtieth anniversary, UNESCO’s programmes to broaden access to knowledge and the current emphasis on education  for all come at a time of momentous cultural, political and economic change. The world is increasingly networked and  unpredictable. The pace of change is growing while the impact of our ways of life upon one another is increasing. The  countries of the so-called Third World, which obtained independence from colonial rule in a great wave of nationalism  after the Second World War, then set themselves the task of embarking on a transformation to give substance to their  political independence by achieving economic and cultural independence. No sooner had they come to grips with this  task than they found themselves faced with a far more complex requirement. In Malaysia, we transformed our economy  from one dependent on rubber and tin into a well-diversified manufacturing economy, only to find ourselves today  faced with the challenge of transforming it yet again.
8.3 Globalization and the related phenomenon of the ICT revolution have brought us to the threshold of a global  information society. In a globalized world, it is not only unacceptable, but simply dangerous, to have a deep divide  between information “haves” and “have-nots” and knowledge “knows” and “know-nots”. There is also a fear that, in a  globalized world, languages and cultural and regional identities will disappear in a levelled-out world dominated by the  cultural norms of the powerful. But, Mr President, the coming information society is not a natural phenomenon beyond  our control. It is a social, technological, economic and ultimately human phenomenon. The shape of the information  society is up to all of us to work out. There is no better forum for this than UNESCO. UNESCO’s programmes build on  our hope for an inclusive future with a clear strategy and a framework for action. Isolationalism is no longer an option.  The challenge of globalization must be faced with realism because the changes it brings can be beneficial but can also  be destructive. It must be faced with imagination because we need to come up with institutions, measures and ways of  working which harness the benefits of liberalization while preventing the exploitation of the weak or the  marginalization of people who are left out of these movements.
8.4 Mr President, I come to my next point: a culture of peace before education for all. Educational development  is a sustained process requiring long-term investment. School sites have to be prepared, the buildings put up, transport  seen to, teachers trained and books and ICT equipment made available. It does not occur overnight, not does it occur in  conditions of conflict, violence, terrorism and wars. Whatever progress we or other countries have made worldwide in  the provision of universal education, it remains that, without peace, no country can carry out even the most elementary  education programme. Education for peace was raised as a topic at the 44th session of the International Conference on  Education held in Geneva in October 1994. The conference noted then that violence, racism, xenophobia, aggressive  nationalism and violations of human rights by religious intolerance, by the upsurge of terrorism in all forms and  manifestations and by the growing gap separating wealthy countries from poor countries were serious obstacles to peace  and development that needed to be addressed. Today, 11 years on, as we look around us and as we survey recent events,  these manifestations, these serious impediments to UNESCO’s Framework for Action for EFA, have yet to be fully  addressed. They have not gone away, but rather, they have heightened and increased.
8.5 Mr President, Muslims do not live in a different world from non-Muslims. The concerns of the vast majority  of Muslims the world over are identical with those of people elsewhere – jobs, education, peace and security. Discourse  in the West on Islam has lately taken on a more intolerant tone. This is an understandable, though mistaken, response to  acts of terrorism. Views of the West in Muslim-majority countries are also hardening. This too is an understandable,  though mistaken, response to those who are perceived to equate Islam with aggression and terrorism. But stereotyping  and extremism of any kind is wrong, and we should not allow those hardened views to be expressed in the concepts we  use. Opportunities for people to interact in open, pragmatic and natural contexts could be more helpful than high-level  symposia for “civilizational dialogue.” Here, there are two points. First, for meaningful dialogue, one must be prepared  also to listen. Secondly, civilizations do not engage in dialogue, people do. The real dialogue is one of lives, of people  trading with one another, working together, living alongside one another.
8.6  Malaysia is proud of its record of fostering a peaceful, democratic and progressive multi-religious society  that is also a Muslim society. We educate, persuade and train people to seek their common prosperity in a progressive  economy rather than to engage in mutual destruction. Through the principles of Islam Hadhari as articulated by our  Prime Minister Datuk Seri Abdullah Badawi, we seek to have Malaysian Muslims understand that the improvement of  our institutions, democratization, education and balanced economic development are the true Jihad. This approach  emphasizes the centrality of the pursuit of knowledge. In the end, it is knowledge of the Oneness of God combined with  faith and total commitment to Allah subhāna wa-ta‘ālà that redeems us. In the end, the Koran invites us to use our  intellect, ponder and investigate and to know, for the goal of human life is to discover the truth. In the end, we are  taught by the Prophet sallà llāhu ‘alaihi wa-sallam to seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave, and that men of  knowledge are the true heirs of the prophets.
8.7  Mr President, education has an absolutely crucial role in inoculating people against racial or religious hatred.  Ignorance of others causes people to fear one another and, fearing one another, to hate. In a world in which people of  different religious and racial backgrounds are coming into contact with one other more and more, we should seek to  understand in detail rather than impose grand visions dreamed up in fear and triumphalism: visions meant to  congratulate ourselves and demonize others. We need actively to teach intercultural understanding and peace. UNESCO  has long run programmes in education and culture that bring about peace and understanding among people the world  over. Here, UNESCO could help develop resources and programmes so that peace-making could become an integral  part of school curricula the world over. UNESCO also has an outstanding record of respect for cultural diversity in its  programmes to extend education and promote the free flow of ideas. UNESCO’s record in action affirms the notion that  true peace is built on recognition and respect for diversity rather than on the imposition of uniformity. Here, Malaysia is  interested in collaborating with UNESCO in developing and using the existing tools for dialogue and reconciliation  fully in achieving UNESCO’s ongoing commitments to protecting cultural diversity and heritage.
8.8 In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our success or failure as an Organization depends on the  quality and commitment of our cooperation and our contributions. We do our best to improve the way we formulate our  statements and organize our meetings, but in the end it is the commitment of each Member State sincerely to promote  peace and development that really counts. Having built and maintained a community of understanding and cooperation  over the past 60 years, we must now extend our efforts so that the future generations may tread on firmer ground and  move towards a future of secure and sustainable progress, peace and prosperity. Let us not be content with our  achievements but dedicate ourselves to the historic challenges of our times. Thank you.   :א ٩,١ ، א א.אא، א א א א  .א
(9.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your address and for your gentle compliments. I now give the floor to  the Honourable Mr Reginald Farley, Minister of Education, Youth Affairs and Sport of Barbados.  (The President continues in English)
9.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
10.1 Mr Farley (Barbados):  Director-General, distinguished delegates, Barbados salutes UNESCO on reaching the important milestone of
60 years of service. We salute UNESCO, not only because of its longevity, but also because of the quality of its  contribution towards the improvement of the standard of living of millions of people around the world. Mr President,  the Barbados delegation warmly congratulates you on your election to the office of President of the General Conference  of UNESCO and we pledge our full support for you during your term of office. Mr President, the Barbados delegation  also warmly welcomes Brunei Darussalam as the newest member of UNESCO.
10.2 Barbados is a small, developing island state with a population of 270,000. Indeed, the attainment of a Human  Development Index of 30 in the United Nations Human Development Report 2004 is the result of decades of special  focus on education, healthcare and economic development with social justice. Mr President, my country strongly  supports the development objectives set out in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the education for all  (EFA) initiatives. We have included the objectives of the MDGs and the EFA initiatives in our National Strategic Plan –  “Vision 2025”. I must report to this meeting that Barbados has met and surpassed the vast majority of these goals, and  we are committed to meeting and surpassing those that remain.
10.3 For Barbados, education for all is a way of life. Education for all Barbadians is free from primary school  through to, and including, university and is compulsory up to 16 years of age. Almost half a century ago we achieved  universal primary education, universal secondary education and gender equality in education. Our current focus is on  further expansion of access to tertiary education and further enhancement of the quality of education. One of our goals,  for example, is to have one university graduate for every household by the year 2025. Barbados fully supports the
125  decision of the United Nations General Assembly to proclaim the period 2005-2014 the United Nations Decade of  Education for Sustainable Development. My country Barbados is a living example of how education has underpinned  sustainable development.
10.4 Mr President, quality education requires – among other things – quality teachers. The developing countries of  the world are often put at a serious disadvantage by the aggressive recruiting of their trained teachers by the rich  countries of the world. To address this problem, the Members of the Commonwealth have agreed on a protocol on  teacher recruitment, which provides a framework for the protection of the developing countries, the teachers themselves,  and the recruiting states. I recommend that this Commonwealth Protocol on Teacher Recruitment be considered for  adoption by this body as a model of best practice in this critical area. We therefore urge the fullest support for the  resolution on this subject, proposed by Trinidad and Tobago.
10.5 Mr President, Barbados and other small island developing States are highly vulnerable to a wide range of  threats, especially natural disasters. Recent events, however, have demonstrated that hurricanes do not discriminate  according to a country’s size. In this context, I offer my country’s sympathy to the United States of America, for the  loss of life caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. As Member States of UNESCO, we must all honour our  commitments made at the World Conference on Disaster Reduction in Kobe, and I urge UNESCO to continue its  programme on environmental protection, capacity-building and training for disaster reduction and rehabilitation.  Director-General, I want to thank you in particular for the deep personal interest you are currently showing in the  development of a warning system for tsunamis and other ocean-related hazards, for the Caribbean and adjacent regions.
10.6 Mr President, may I remind this assembly that in 1994, the Global Conference on the Sustainable  Development of Small Island Developing States was held in Barbados. The outcome of the meeting was the Barbados  Programme of Action. UNESCO and other members of the United Nations system supported the implementation of the  Programme of Action. Today we are pleased to support the Mauritius Declaration and the Mauritius Strategy for the  Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing  States, adopted in January 2005 at the United Nations Conference on Small Islands. We urge all Member States to  support draft resolution No. 1, submitted by Australia and others, on the further implementation of this Programme of  Action. We further urge that this Programme of Action be fully reflected in UNESCO’s Medium-Term Strategy for
10.7 Mr President, this 33rd session of the UNESCO General Conference will consider the draft international  convention against doping in sport. Barbados has the honour of representing the Central American and Caribbean  region on the Foundation Board of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). WADA is committed to drug-free sport.  Under the framework of the existing World Anti-doping Code – which has been accepted by 160 countries, 33 Olympic  sports federations and 202 National Committees – WADA conducted last year 2,327 out-of-competition tests in
62 countries across 26 Olympic summer sports and 13 Olympic winter sports, among others. With the support of the  General Conference, we will make the Code a legally-binding instrument and the first international convention to  comprehensively deal with the issue of drugs in sports. I urge all countries to support the convention, and to ratify it  promptly, so that it can be legally binding and enforceable by the time of the Winter Olympic Games in Turin, February
10.8 Mr President, I also want to signal to this Conference the strong support of Barbados for the draft convention  on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. In Barbados, we are currently engaged in  several projects aimed at strengthening our capacity in heritage conservation. In this regard, I give the example of the  University of the West Indies, which is currently developing course content for its Heritage Resource Management  Programme. Mr President, the countries of the Caribbean have had their culture, societies and economies affected by  slavery in more fundamental ways than in many other societies. We are pleased with the support which UNESCO has  given to the Transatlantic Slave Route project. The year 2007, however, marks the 200th anniversary of the abolition of  slavery. It is our view that the Transatlantic Slave Route project should culminate in a major international activity of  such status and standing consistent with the importance of slavery – and its history – to the history of the Caribbean  people.
10.9 Mr President, in conclusion, I extend the thanks of Barbados for the opportunity to serve on the  Intergovernmental Council of the Management of Social Transformations (MOST) Programme and we express strong  support for all organs of UNESCO, especially: the World Heritage Committee, the International Programme for the  Development of Communication (IPDC), the Memory of the World International Advisory Committee and the  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), in particular IOCARIBE. Mr President, Director-General,  distinguished delegates, I thank you.   :א ١١,١ א.אא ، א א  .א
(11.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you for your important statement. I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Pierre Buteau, Minister of  Education of Haiti.  (The President continues in French)
11.2 Excellence, vous avez la parole.
12.1 M. Buteau (Haïti) :  Monsieur le Directeur général, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du  Conseil exécutif, chers collègues, distingués délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est un grand honneur pour moi de  participer à la 33e session de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO et de prendre la parole devant cette assemblée en  tant que chef de la délégation haïtienne.
12.2 Soixante ans après la création de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et la culture,  la mission confiée à notre institution garde toute sa pertinence au regard des grands défis que le monde actuel doit  encore affronter et qui concernent tous ses domaines de compétence. Ces défis appellent d’ailleurs une réforme en  profondeur de l’Organisation de sorte que celle-ci soit mieux à même de prendre en compte les enjeux multiples du  nouveau millénaire.
12.3 À travers sa mission de promotion de l’éducation, l’UNESCO œuvre en faveur d’un meilleur accès des  citoyens du monde entier à la connaissance, principale source d’amélioration des conditions de vie pour les uns et  d’accès au progrès et au bien-être pour les autres. Depuis la Conférence de Jomtien au début des années 1990, en  passant par le Sommet de Dakar en l’an 2000, l’Éducation pour tous est le leitmotiv qui inspire l’objectif d’édification  d’un monde meilleur par l’accès au savoir et l’acquisition de connaissances adaptées à la réalité de chacun. Affirmant  depuis plusieurs années, dans le sillage de Jomtien et de Dakar, son engagement en faveur de l’Éducation pour tous, la  République d’Haïti, résolue à atteindre les Objectifs du Millénaire à l’horizon 2015, s’emploie actuellement à finaliser  sa Stratégie nationale d’Éducation pour tous. Les jalons déjà posés dans le cadre du Plan national d’éducation et de  formation (PNEF), qui définit l’orientation et les actions de la réforme du système éducatif haïtien, traduisent  l’engagement de l’État haïtien, assuré par ailleurs de la détermination des familles à prendre en charge l’éducation de  leurs enfants. En effet, l’Éducation pour tous peut et doit contribuer à l’éradication de la pauvreté, au développement et  à la paix. Toutefois, le Gouvernement d’Haïti demeure préoccupé face aux hésitations de certains bailleurs de fonds qui,  trop enclins à se prévaloir de certaines situations politiques pour remettre en cause leurs engagements au service de  l’Éducation pour tous, font fi du principe universellement accepté selon lequel l’éducation transcende les questions  politiques.
12.4 Par une meilleure exploitation des progrès accomplis dans le domaine scientifique, l’UNESCO vise à  améliorer les conditions de vie de segments de population ou de populations entières considérés comme vulnérables. Le  Programme hydrologique international (PHI), l’un des domaines dans lesquels l’Organisation est particulièrement  active depuis quelque temps, revêt une importance évidente au regard des problèmes qui menacent l’environnement,  voire l’espace de vie des citoyens de la planète entière. Vivant dans un pays marqué par une forte dégradation de  l’environnement et par des risques de pénurie, voire de pollution de ses maigres réserves hydrologiques, je suis  particulièrement sensible à cette préoccupation de l’Organisation et je saisis ici l’occasion de la féliciter des progrès  accomplis en la matière, notamment de l’appui apporté par le Bureau régional pour l’Amérique latine et les Caraïbes à  la mise en place du Comité national du PHI en Haïti.
12.5 J’en profite ici pour exprimer toute la sympathie du Gouvernement et du peuple haïtiens aux populations  d’Amérique du Nord et d’Amérique centrale, en particulier celles du Guatemala, du Salvador et du Nicaragua, qui sont  particulièrement affectées depuis deux jours par les ravages de la tempête Stan.
12.6 Par la reconnaissance de la diversité culturelle, l’UNESCO œuvre à la promotion de la compréhension entre  les peuples et s’emploie à véhiculer les idées de tolérance et d’acceptation de l’autre, essentielles à l’amélioration des  relations au sein de la communauté des États. En s’investissant à fond dans le champ de la communication et de  l’information, l’Organisation a choisi de s’adapter à l’ère de ce village planétaire qu’est devenu le monde aujourd’hui,  avec le développement des nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication qui ont désormais abattu les  frontières entre les États, changé les rapports entre les êtres humains et leur vision du monde. Les apports bénéfiques  des nouvelles TIC, en particulier dans le champ de l’éducation, devraient permettre de résoudre efficacement certains  problèmes, tels que la formation des maîtres, l’absence de documentation, pour ne mentionner que ceux-là. Faisant  entièrement siennes les valeurs prônées par l’Organisation, dont elle est d’ailleurs membre à part entière, la République  d’Haïti réaffirme sa détermination à travailler à la mise en place, sur son territoire, de l’Institut des langues et des  cultures de la Caraïbe, sous l’égide de l’UNESCO. C’est là un instrument stratégique qui, tout en permettant au peuple  haïtien d’assumer sa différence, devrait faciliter son insertion dans la grande région des Caraïbes.
12.7 La République d’Haïti garde encore le souvenir de la contribution de l’UNESCO, à la fin du siècle dernier, à  la sauvegarde de la Citadelle Henri, ce monument de la période de l’Indépendance, hier menacé de disparition. Elle en
127  profite pour appeler l’Organisation à intensifier son action dans le domaine de la protection des patrimoines immatériel,  matériel et subaquatique, et ce en faveur d’Haïti particulièrement vulnérable dans ce domaine.
12.8 Monsieur le Directeur général, le Gouvernement d’Haïti, sensible aux fructueux rapports de coopération qui  existent déjà entre l’État haïtien et l’UNESCO, souhaite exprimer par ma voix sa haute appréciation des réformes que  vous avez lancées depuis votre arrivée à la tête de l’Organisation. Au nombre de celles-ci, j’évoquerai la  décentralisation, dont l’objectif premier est d’accroître l’impact des bureaux hors Siège dans les États membres afin de  permettre à leurs populations de mieux connaître l’action menée par l’UNESCO. Je peux vous assurer du soutien  d’Haïti qui n’a jamais ménagé ses efforts pour promouvoir les idéaux et les objectifs de l’UNESCO. Toutefois, afin  d’assurer le bon fonctionnement de ces bureaux, il conviendrait de renforcer sensiblement leurs ressources humaines et  budgétaires.
12.9 En saluant le 60e anniversaire de l’Organisation et en félicitant le Président de la Conférence générale pour  son élection, le Gouvernement d’Haïti réitère son engagement envers les idéaux et les valeurs universelles prônés par  l’UNESCO. Je vous remercie.   :א ١٣,١ א.א א אא ،  .א
(13.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you for your statement. I now give the floor to the Honourable Ms Chinwe Nora Obaji, Minister of  Education of Nigeria.  (The President continues in English.)
13.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor please.
14.1 Ms Obaji (Nigeria):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, your  Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the President, chief Olusegun Obasanjo, GCFR, and the  entire people of Nigeria, I bring you greetings and a special note of appreciation particularly to UNESCO and Member  States for their cooperation and for their good will towards the immediate past-President of the General Conference, our  Ambassador Michael Omolewa. I take this opportunity to congratulate Your Excellency, Ambassador Dr Musa bin  Jaafar bin Hassan of Oman, on your election as President of this session and to assure you of our support and  cooperation in the discharge of your duties. It is also my pleasure to express to you the support of Nigeria and the  personal delight of our President, Chief Obasanjo, at the nomination for a second term of office of the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura. We welcome the landmark achievements recorded by UNESCO over the last six years and are confident  that Mr Matsuura will steer UNESCO to greater heights in the coming years.
14.2 As we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, President Obasanjo sends warm wishes for success. He  looks forward to continuing fruitful cooperation with UNESCO in its vocation of providing useful services to the  international community at large and increasing cooperation with Africa, especially through NEPAD. Happily,  UNESCO’s continued relevance was yet again confirmed in the outcome of the recent United Nations Summit, which  recognized its areas of responsibility as being crucial to the attainment of development.
14.3 We also note that this session of the General Conference has before it the report on the functioning of the  three main organs of the Organization prepared at the request of the General Conference at its 32nd session.  Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, my intervention here will be limited to highlighting a few issues that are indicative  of Nigeria’s desired orientation for the Organization and its future programmes.
14.4 Permit me, Mr President, to reflect briefly on the special collaboration between Nigeria and UNESCO,  triggered by 30 C/Resolution 56 adopted at the 30th session of the General Conference in 1999 and which has since  continued thanks to the goodwill and support of this august body. The areas of focus have been expanded to include  education, science and technology, virtual library and cultural policy, and are based on discussions held as recently as  May 2005 when my President visited UNESCO for the celebration of Africa Week.
14.5 We are happy to report progress at the basic education level in our march to attain EFA goals. For instance,  enrolment in our primary schools, especially of girls, has significantly increased. We are on course to attaining gender  parity and the quality of delivery of basic education has been enhanced. These improvements have been made possible  chiefly through a supportive political will, especially on the part of our President and the Governors of the federating  States, and a huge financial investment in basic education. In this connection, I am glad to report that, by law, Nigeria  devotes 2% of all federal revenue to its Universal Basic Education programme.
14.6 As one of the thrusts in our efforts to enhance the enrolment, retention and performance of pupils in our  primary schools, I am glad to report the take-off of the presidential initiative – the home-grown School Feeding and  Health Programme. This programme, which assures a decent meal a day to every enrolled pupil and fosters healthy  living, is school-based and community driven. The programme also aims at eliminating child hunger, poor health while
128  in school and at providing equal opportunities for every Nigerian child to benefit from quality basic education. We are  proud of this programme, which is gaining wide acceptance among rural and urban communities and among federal,  state and local authorities. All these efforts are tailored to ensure that Nigeria meets the Millennium Development Goals  and our home-grown National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy.
14.7 We are pleased to announce the provision of 3 billion naira to promote the active learning of mathematics  and science in our primary and secondary schools through the use of mathematical and micro-science kits. The delivery  of the kits has started in earnest. In addition, the sum of 185 million naira has been set aside as funds-in-trust for the  implementation of the project in the first year. We look forward to UNESCO’s cooperation in the search for  extrabudgetary funds to complement our efforts. Furthermore, we have expanded, through private sector participation,  the provision of quality higher education. Since the last General Conference, more private universities, polytechnics and  colleges of education have been established. A National Virtual Library is to be commissioned in the next two months  to provide the latest books and journals for our higher education students and teachers.
14.8 Nigeria also appreciates the support received from UNESCO in Phase I of the UNESCO-Nigeria Project on  the Revitalization of Technical and Vocational Education and Training, partly financed with Japanese funds-in-trust.  For Phase II of the project, we will seek the support of UNESCO.
14.9 Nigeria continues to be appreciative and supportive of the important global role that UNESCO is called upon  to play in the field of standard-setting. I am happy to inform you that only a few days ago my President took action by  acceding to or ratifying the following UNESCO instruments: the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage, the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, the UNIDROIT  Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects, and the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention of 1954  for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. I would like to take this opportunity to draw  particular attention to the state of ratification of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage,  and to urge Member States to make every effort to ensure that we attain the 30 ratifications necessary to make the  Convention operational before the end of this session of the General Conference.
14.10 Regarding the budget, we accept the consolidated budget of $635 million, made up of $610 million plus a  provision of $25 million of voluntarily contributed funds.
14.11 Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Nigeria will continue to work with like-minded Member States to seek ways of  ensuring that UNESCO delivers on its promise to contribute to the creation of peace in the world. We must not fail in  this vital venture. Thank you for your attention.   :א ١٥ א ، אא،א א.، א א ، א א.א ،  .א
(15) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Minister, for your eloquent statement and also for your country’s support and cooperation. I now  give the floor to His Excellency Dr Sadok Korbi, Minister of Education and Training in Tunisia. Minister, you have the  floor.   ):(א ١٦,١ א א אא.א ، א א א ، א א א ، א א א ، א ، א א ، א א.، א א א א א.א א א א א א א א א−−א א א א א א א ،.א ، ، א א א א א א א א ،א א ، א א א א א א ، א א  .א א ١٦,٢ אא א א א א א ، א א א ، א א א א ، א א א א א א אא א א א.א א א א א ، א ، א א א א ، א א−א אא א א− א א
(16.1) Mr Korbi (Tunisia) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the General Conference, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished audience, it gives me great pleasure at the start of my address to convey  my most sincere compliments to Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, President of the General Conference. I hope that his  duties will be brought to completion successfully, and I am sure we are all confident that this will be the case. I am also  delighted to express my praise for the work of the Chairman of the Executive Board and his assistants, and for their  admirable and selfless efforts towards helping us to fulfil our aims. Nor should I forget to praise the ever sharp insight  and constructive work of the Director-General, who has done so much to improve this Organization’s performance and to  raise its profile in a world more than ever in need of solidarity, cohesion, noble human values, and a deep awareness of  the dangers that threaten humankind. I would also like to give my best wishes to our respected Organization on its  sixtieth anniversary. We in Tunisia believe that the best gift that we could possibly offer the Organization on this  occasion is to speed up the process of reform that we have begun. This process will renew the Organization’s mission and  modernize the ways in which it operates. It will make the Organization better able to face up to dangerous and complex  challenges while remaining as strong as ever. It will allow the Organization to continue as a radiant beacon, lighting the  way for humanity as it strives towards development, progress and peace through education, science and culture.
(16.2) President of the General Conference, ladies and gentlemen, our regular meetings are a new chance to review  what has been achieved and to exchange our experiences. They also allow us to look ahead to the future, in a rapidly  changing world. For knowledge and the sciences now evolve more swiftly than do the generations. Modern technology  has invaded every aspect of life, making distances shorter both in space and in time. Our certainties and our bearings  have become muddled in the onslaught of globalization, under both its positive and its negative aspects. Our  Organization’s areas of interest – education, science, culture and communication – have witnessed radical changes that  have brought yet greater challenges. This is especially true of countries where the problems of traditional education are  accumulating, with issues such as guaranteeing the right to learning, or ensuring universal school attendance, particularly  female education. Traditional education is faced with the needs of tomorrow’s schools, with the requirements of post- modernity. The old curricula have entered a phase of confusion, as if pausing bewildered before the forces that threaten  their future. The wealth of nations is now a function of intelligence-building, the new benchmark wherever peoples  compete. Drawing on its own experience and on its view that international cooperation is a must, Tunisia has already  used this platform to call for support for the proposals of the Dakar World Education Forum, and to call for the  establishment of an international fund for educational development for the benefit of the most needy countries, to be  provided for by the funding freed up by the cancellation of their heavy debts. Tunisia notes with satisfaction that the idea  has started to spread and to leave its mark in hearts and minds. It is on the way to becoming a reality. Our meetings are  also an opportunity to take a stand against violations of children’s right to education. How could we therefore remain  motionless as walls and barriers are built, as explosions in the midst of Palestinian and Iraqi children rob them of this  most sacred right? Surely the solution lies in bringing about equitable peace in the region, a peace that protects dignity,  freedom and human rights, while blocking the path of those who sow dissent, extremism and terrorism. Let us work  together towards that goal.
(16.3) President of the General Conference, ever since its independence, Tunisia has understood that its future can  be built only through schooling, by giving young people a modern training that is suited to the realities and needs of the  age. Education has therefore been at the forefront of Tunisia’s priorities. In 1987, the social modernization project  brought about political change. Concurrently, the global situation was evolving. Our country consciously and wittingly  embraced globalization, together with the wide-ranging changes that that implies for the means of production and for  human resources. As a result of all of this, there has been a renewed interest in schools and in their mission. A series of  radical reforms has therefore been put in place, to enable the schools to come out winners in the competition for  excellence. Several indicators show how education is an absolute national priority. I would like for instance to cite some  figures for the State’s expenditure on that sector. Education accounts for around 7% of GDP and 15% of the State’s  general budget. These indicators represent the cost of a democratic school system whose mission it is to be both free and  compulsory, and which is based on the twin principles of justice and equal opportunities. Notable progress has been made  both in quantitative and in qualitative terms. There is no space here to describe them in great detail here. Suffice it to  point out that net proportion for school attendance among children aged six or over has reached 99.1%, and the  proportion is the same for males and females. In 2004, the illiteracy rate went down to 22.9%. The President wishes to  see this figure drop to 10% by 2009. It is worth pointing out that education for all (EFA) is no longer something to which  we aspire. It is a tangible reality that has made Tunisia into an “education society” in which all Tunisians without  distinction enjoy a right to learn. This applies also to children with special needs, who have been integrated into ordinary  schools, as well as to adults, who benefit from a pilot programme for adult education. It is no exaggeration to say that the  proposals of the World Declaration on Education for All and the six Dakar goals have been realized in Tunisia to a  significant extent. The other principles and goals stated by the international conventions have been fully realized. Among  these in particular are the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International Convention on the Rights of the  Child. In the same way, the same effort is being made for higher education, which has seen a rapid development in recent  decades. There are universities in every part of the country, and the proportion of 19-24 year olds in education has risen  to 35.5%, of whom 58% are female. It is because education is one condition for building a knowledge society, and  because it is a foundation for development strategy, that education has received support and has been revamped. The  budget for research has reached 1.05% of GDP, and it is expected that this figure will rise to 1.25% by 2009. Research  centres and technology parks are spreading across the country. The results of all of this work are starting to come into  view. The number of graduates specializing in technological and engineering subjects among 20-29 year olds is now at
7.4 per thousand, and will reach 11 per thousand by 2009. This is close to the proportion that is recorded for the European  Union. In Tunisia, there are now 3.89 researchers for every 1,000 people in employment, a figure that is set to rise to 5 by
(16.4) Ladies and gentlemen, in a world where there are so many claims about the clash of civilizations and cultural  conflict, it is as important to preserve the cultures of peoples as it is to provide them with food security. That is what  prompted Tunisia to take action in the sphere of culture. Tunisia has committed 1% of the State budget to culture, and  this figure will rise to 1.5% over the next few years. In its cultural policies, my country has attached great importance to  the principles of tolerance, understanding between peoples, and the dialogue among civilizations. This approach has  taken shape in the Carthage Charter on Tolerance in the Mediterranean, and also in the foundation of the Ben Ali Chair  for the Dialogue of Civilizations, Cultures and Religions. My country has also been determined to spread the culture of  Science and of Information and Communication Technology, and supports any initiative in the direction of cultural  diversity. Tunis is preparing to celebrate the 600th anniversary for one of our most outstanding scholars, the author of the  Muqaddima, the historian ‘Abd-ur-Rahmān Ibn Khaldūn. We are delighted for other peoples of the world to celebrate  together with us; Ibn Khaldun and his legacy are the property of all of humanity. Mr President, on a similar occasion to  this one, my country has already warned of the dangers of the digital divide, which creates a gap between the wealthy  countries that control modern technology and its appliances on the one hand, and the remainder of the countries of the  world on the other hand, foremost among them the countries of the South. Tunisia is energetically preparing to host the  second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society this coming November. It expresses its determination to  use this vitally important event to press for international cooperation to reduce this divide, and to advance the principle of  positive discrimination for the benefit of the countries that lag behind in that sector. Our Organization has a part to play  in this matter, and we hope that it will play that part actively. Nor should I let this opportunity pass without renewing the  invitation extended by Tunisia – the country of safety, peace and openness – to all of its friends, to attend the Summit’s  activities and to participate constructively in making it a success.
(16.5) The challenges facing our peoples are considerable. What is at stake is our future, in a tense world where  egoism and indifference to the tragedies of others seem prevalent. We believe that a correct awareness of those tragedies  constitutes the first step towards finding the way to solutions. A solution can be credible only if it is a collective one.  Indeed, such solutions lie in building bridges for dialogue, cohesion and solidarity. A new culture must be created,  informing joint international efforts. In conclusion, I can only state again Tunisia’s attachment and commitment to the  principles of UNESCO. Tunisia is and remains fully prepared to support any initiative aimed at advancing Education for  All and the culture that fosters it, and at advancing the sciences that will prove beneficial. Thank you for your attention.   :א ١٧ ، א ، אא א ،.א א א א א א א א.א ،.
(17) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your important statement and your kind congratulations. I shall now  give the floor to His Excellency Dr Rasheed Hamad Al-Hamad, Minister of Education of Kuwait. Honourable Minister,  you have the floor.  א١٨,١  ):א(א א א.אא ، א א ، א א א א ، א א א ، א א ، א א אא א א.א א א א א א א א א א א א א א א א א.א א א א، א א ، א א א א א א א א ، א ، אא א.א א ١٧א א/א א  .א
(18.1) Mr Al-Hamad (Kuwait) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the 33rd session  of the General  Conference, Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished heads and members of delegation. I come  before you here today to bring you the greetings of the State of Kuwait, from its Amir, its Government and its people. We  hope that this session of the General Conference will be a successful one. I would like to congratulate the Director- General Mr Koïchiro Matsuura on his nomination for another term leading this Organization as it works to spread the  values of peace, tolerance, and the fellowship of humankind, through its noble goals and its eternal message, which  informs its educational, cultural and scientific programmes and activities. I am also delighted to thank and to compliment  His Excellency Michael Obiola Omolewa, President of the 32nd session of the General Conference, for his magnificent  work over the past two years to raise the profile of this Organization. My thanks and compliments also go to His  Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, for his Presidency of this session. I wish him every possible success. It  likewise gives me pleasure to convey my best wishes to the Sultanate of Brunei Darussalam, which joined UNESCO last  March, as an active Member that will enrich UNESCO’s work and effectiveness.
(18.2) Mr President, honourable ladies and gentlemen, it has been sixty years since UNESCO was founded. During  that period, the world has continued to witness a change that represents, in reality, the deepest and most rapid evolution in  the history of the human race. The changes have given rise to new challenges for the peoples of the world: challenges  such as poverty, illiteracy, extremism, the widening of the digital divide, environmental pollution, scarcity of water  resources, and a succession of natural disasters. The State of Kuwait does not have the slightest doubt that UNESCO’s  mission, as stated in its Constitution, is today – more than at any time before – the basic point of departure to face up to  those challenges. UNESCO seeks to build peace in the minds of men, or rather to put people before things. It contributes  to defending peace and security by strengthening ties of cooperation between peoples through education, science, culture  and communication. Realizing this mission means ensuring human progress and welfare. Nor is the State of Kuwait in  any doubt that the Organization’s programmes, which are constantly being renewed in all four of the sectors in which it  works, correspond to the challenges of this age, an age that has seen so many reversals. The Organization will be  strengthened by the reforms that it is taking to concentrate its work on realistic priorities. The State of Kuwait believes in  the principles and values on which this noble Organization was founded. It has therefore always persevered in taking  clear and successive steps in every sector of UNESCO’s work.
(18.3) In the sector of education, teaching has received impetus. The country’s first strategy for public education has  been put into action, covering the period from 2005 to 2025. This ambitious strategy comprises three basic pivots,  covering Kuwait’s principal educational needs up to 2025. These are: taking on the challenge of technology and bridging  the digital divide; instilling the values of dialogue and human rights in youth; and facing up to the challenges of the  curricula, in such a way as to create an education system that lays the foundations to train young people, as part of one  single process promoting the goals of the State and its democratic principles. Distinguished audience, it gives me pleasure  in this context to mention two outstanding events that will greatly enrich the State of Kuwait’s relations with UNESCO in  matters of education. I refer firstly to the first awards of the Emir Jaber al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah Prize for Research  and Training in Special Needs Education for the Mentally Disabled. A sum equivalent to US $500,000 has been budgeted  for this Prize, which will be administered by the Director-General of UNESCO to that end. Secondly, I refer to the  victory of the Kuwaiti schools affiliated to UNESCO in the Mondialogo School Contest, which was held by the  Organization in order to promote the dialogue of cultures. Kuwait achieved second place in this worldwide contest. In the  field of culture, the efforts of the State and its institutions in preserving cultural heritage spring from a firm belief in  giving roots to the Organization’s commitment to preserving the tangible and intangible heritage and to building the  knowledge society. This belief is reflected in remarkable cultural and intellectual activities, as well as in the projects that  the State is implementing. The latest among these are the Jaber Cultural Centre and the Modern National Library. In the  field of science, and in particular as regards water, the State’s enthusiasm took form last year under the aegis of His  Majesty the Emir of the first national campaign to preserve and develop the country’s water resources. Nor did the State  and its relevant scientific institutions fail to be active in protecting the environment and confronting marine pollution. In  the media sector, and in connect with initiatives to bolster freedom of opinion and expression, the State has devised an  ambitious project implementing its strategy to develop the sector and to decentralize it, devolving the media to  independent bodies. This development coincides with global evolution and with the direction in which the modern media  is moving.
(18.4) Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 May 2005, the State of Kuwait witnessed a great event, a historic evolution in  political life: Kuwaiti women gained their full political rights. This event was made possible by a noble decree of His  Highness the Emir dated 16 May 1999. This immediate step brought in two women as Members of Parliament. A woman  was also appointed as Minister of Planning and Administrative Development. Kuwaiti women will crown their political  rights by taking part in the coming legislative elections.
(18.5) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the State of Kuwait understands the dimensions of the challenges that  face us all, and of the responsibility thrust on the shoulders of UNESCO. It therefore expresses its full support for the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007. It also welcomes the draft standard-setting documents in this session’s  agenda, in particular the declaration on universal norms on bioethics, and the draft international convention against  doping in sport. It likewise welcomes the strategy to facilitate the restitution of stolen or illicitly exported cultural  property. The State of Kuwait would like to present its thanks and compliments to the Kingdom of Bahrain for its  generous participation and for offering the UNESCO-King Hamad Bin Isa Al-Khalifa Prize for the Use of Information  and Communication Technologies in Education. It welcomes the efforts of the Organization, its Member States and  NGOs alike to protect cultural contents and forms of artistic expression. It wishes to thank the Director-General for his  unceasing efforts to protect the cultural and natural heritage of the City of Jerusalem, and also to call upon him to  persevere until all obstacles to the protection of this example of human heritage are removed. Kuwait appreciates the  Director-General’s efforts to strengthen educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories, and  encourages him to continue to help them. The State of Kuwait likewise thanks the Director-General for UNESCO’s  efforts to reform cultural and educational institutions in Iraq, and invites him to support Iraq fully in the process of  rebuilding and in developing the sectors of education, culture, science and technology. We are approaching the second  phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, to be held in the Republic of Tunisia. On this occasion, the State  of Kuwait hopes it will be possible to start implementing a work plan following on from the first phase of the Summit,  which took place in Geneva in 2003.
(18.6) To conclude this address, I can only stress the State of Kuwait’s determination to liase with UNESCO, to  participate in all of its programmes, and to support its projects with all of the means at its disposal. Kuwait hopes that  great successes lie in store for the Organization and for all of the States that rally to its banner. In conclusion, let me  repeat my thanks to all of you and offer you my best wishes. May the Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be with  you.
(20.1) Mr Al Soudany (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. President of the General Conference, Chairman of the  Executive Board, Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished heads and members of delegation, ladies and gentlemen,
135  may the peace and the mercy and blessings of God be with you. Both in my own name and on behalf of my colleagues in  the Iraqi government, I should like to present the most sincere compliments to the President of the General Conference,  who has just been elected for this session, His Excellency Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan. I wish him every possible  success in directing the proceedings. I likewise wish to convey our compliments to the Chairman of the Executive Board,  and to the Members of the Board, for their groundbreaking work. On behalf of thousands of Iraqi children and adults,  who can now smile once again, I express my appreciation to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, for  enhancing the projects and activities for cooperation between UNESCO and Iraq. It gives me great pleasure that he  supports education and culture in our beloved Iraq. I should like to convey my thanks and compliments to all of the States  that have offered their aid and support, and continue to do so, to build a new Iraq. I wish all of them every success.
(20.2) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with I can only offer you a general summary of the state of  education, culture and science in Iraq, in the light of the situation that the country has been through, with all of the ruin  and destruction that it has suffered. I will give an account of what some wonderful people have done to reform and  review the education system. Education collapsed along with the previous regime. The infrastructure deteriorated, and  teaching materials and resources are lacking. Significant numbers of experts and qualified teachers have emigrated. The  level of annual expenditure on education has fallen. Annual expenditure per pupil is now less than $47. Around 80% of  schools are in need of reform. The same is true of technical and vocational schools, which need new buildings, equipment  and laboratories. On the other hand, there are statistics for the number of schools that have been built or improved over  the last two years since the date of the end of the last session of UNESCO’s General Conference in 2003. Around 2,600  schools have been renovated, and 300 new ones built in Baghdad and in the provinces. Another statistic points to the  number of pupils and teachers who have been brought back to their studies and employment, now that living conditions  have improved and that the reasons for leaving or for the deterioration of the quality of schooling have been addressed.  Nevertheless, what has been achieved so far accounts for only a small proportion of the necessary retraining and  rebuilding, for all the work that is in progress. We currently need to renovate around 8,000 schools and to build over
4,000 new ones. Existing schools need to be enlarged by about 2,500 new classrooms. We need to print around
65 million copies of schoolbooks, corresponding to hundreds of titles. Around 90% of educational bodies need training or  retraining. The destruction, damage and devastation were total. The lives of the Iraqis were directly affected in cultural as  well as in human terms. Antiquities representing the heritage of Mesopotamian civilization were looted. The Iraqis retain  a glimmer of hope that the plundered cultural resources and their distinctive symbols can be recovered, in particular  museums and libraries. It is here that UNESCO has a part to play, alongside the international bodies whose mission is  related to antiquities and museums. This Organization has carried out valuable work, for which it deserves our thanks and  our prayers.
(20.3) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that reform of the Iraqi education system deserves to  be put first. This is especially true since education is the basis for sustainable development and for economic and social  progress. These goals involve building the infrastructure; modernizing the education system and reviving the civilization  of the past; strengthening the nation’s capacity to train teachers and reform school curricula; and lastly developing  teaching and learning methods, something that can be done by being open to the world and drawing on expertise and  improved teaching techniques available both regionally and globally. The Ministry for Education has worked with  determination and devotion to rebuild the education system, to reform and reorient it, to ensure quantitative and  qualitative development, to bolster equality. Against factionalism, extremism and the culture of violence and terrorism, it  has worked to spread the principles of tolerance, democracy and human rights.
(20.4) Today, more than at any other time, Iraq needs UNESCO and the international community. It needs their  immediate support to address a wide range of challenges: the paralysis that seized it to the very core during the period of  totalitarianism, and the terrorist and extremist attacks that face it now. Your Organization’s exceptional humanitarian  work serves to realize the required goals and objectives. It is accelerating this phase of revival, building a new scientific  and educational outlook. This outlook provides a basis to develop human skills and resources. It strengthens the work to  support education, culture and science; to eliminate illiteracy; to build the state; to ensure equality between men and  women in education and society, on the basis of democracy and human rights. I am confident that you will not spare your  efforts to help us and that your work will not fall short, so long as your guiding principles are charity, justice and peace.  May the Peace and the Mercy and Blessings of God be with you.   :א ٢١,١ ، א ، אא א.א ، א א א  .א،
(21.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your eloquent statement and your kind congratulations. Now there is a  little change. I shall give the floor to the Honourable Mr Mohlabi Kenneth Tsekoa, Minister of Education and Training of  Lesotho.  (The President continues in English)
21.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
22.1 Mr Tsekoa (Lesotho):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General of  UNESCO, honourable heads of delegation, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of  Lesotho, allow me, Mr President, to echo the words of my predecessors and congratulate you and your team for being
136  entrusted with the responsibility of presiding over the proceedings of this conference, a responsibility of which we  know you will acquit yourself with distinction and with honour. My delegation also wishes the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the very best in his nomination for yet another term.
22.2 It is fitting, Mr President, for me to preface my intervention by underscoring the indispensability of peace  and stability in our fragile world. In tackling the challenges of poverty, the squalor of disease, the debilitating  HIV/AIDS pandemic, unemployment and famine – to mention but a few – the peoples and governments of the world  rely on the essential prerequisites for sustainable socio-economic development – and those prerequisites are peace and  stability.
22.3 Mr President, commitment to the implementation of the education for all (EFA) programme continues to be a  priority for Lesotho, a commitment illustrated by the government’s allocation of some 27% of the national budget to the  education sector, the free primary education introduced progressively from 2000, the construction of more primary  schools, the school feeding programme at the primary level and the book rental scheme for the secondary level. All  these initiatives continue to be a priority for Lesotho. It is anticipated that, by the year 2007, Lesotho will experience a  “bulge” at the secondary level, when all of the free primary education pupils who enrolled in class 1 in the year 2000  will be going into the first year of secondary education. Lesotho would, without a doubt, benefit from the support of her  development partners to manage this bulge.
22.4 Mr President, it is an indisputable fact that the implementation of EFA continues to be an insurmountable  challenge for the least developed countries (LDCs), which without sound financial backing run a great risk of failing to  realize the EFA and the Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015. Without financial support the many good  “credible plans”, such as Lesotho’s Sector-Wide Strategic Plan, remain just that – plans. Financial arrangements such as  the seemingly elusive Fast-Track Initiative, if pursued earnestly, would go a long way towards relieving the burden of  implementation of the noble vision of education for all. It is therefore vital that the international community should try  harder – and be more generous – to honour the commitment made in Dakar in the year 2000 and further amplified by  the Monterrey Consensus in 2002. The selection of “literacy with special emphasis on education for rural people” as a  theme for the fifth meeting of the High-Level Group on Education for All planned for November 2005 in Beijing is  commendable and worthy of our support.
22.5 In view of the HIV/AIDS tragedy in sub-Saharan Africa, especially its impact on the education sector, the  unprecedented loss of teachers and the alarming increase in the number of orphans and vulnerable children, Lesotho  would like to applaud the following initiatives proposed by the Director-General: The Teacher Training Initiative for  Sub-Saharan Africa, the Global Initiative on HIV/AIDS and Education, and the Literacy Initiative for Empowerment  (LIFE). Mr President, it is inevitable that many developing countries have to intensify their efforts in diversifying ways  of providing access to education. For instance, the distance education mode and the e-mode of learning are welcome  initiatives. In this regard, Lesotho launched a NEPAD e-schools initiative in six secondary schools in August this year,  an initiative which, to have any meaningful impact, needs to be expanded to other schools in the Kingdom if we are to  keep pace with the ICT revolution referred to by previous speakers. Clearly, there is wisdom in taking up the  recommendation of the Executive Board to devise special policies in order to redress current asymmetries and to create  inclusive knowledge societies. Similarly, the importance of establishing multimedia centres in rural communities should  never be overlooked, especially their potential for enhancing education for poverty reduction amongst the poorest of the  poor.
22.6  The results-based management approach to programming by UNESCO, which entails constant monitoring  and evaluation, is worthy of support. This, however, will necessitate intensive training of staff at Headquarters and in  the field. It would also make sense to train National Commissions as well, since they play an important role in the  implementation of UNESCO projects in Member States, as well as ensuring essential coordination of such projects and  programmes in UNESCO’s areas of competence.
22.7 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, finally, I would like to turn to the 60th anniversary of UNESCO.  Yesterday we witnessed the pomp and the crescendo of the philharmonic orchestra. This is indeed a time for celebration,  a celebration in honour of the founding fathers – and mothers too – of this our great Organization, men and women who  had the bravery and the vision to build peace on the ashes of a devastating war, men and women who had the foresight  to form an Organization which has stood the test of time. For indeed, UNESCO’s ideals of peace and development for  collective advancement are still relevant now, in the twenty-first century. The challenge that our forebears have left us  is to “construct the defences of peace in the minds of men” and women of our world. The sixtieth anniversary of  UNESCO also offers us an opportunity for reflection and for collective introspection as the current bearers of the baton.  Are we still on course? Can we proudly claim a contribution to the promotion of peace through education, the sciences,  culture and communication? As we celebrate, therefore, we must rededicate and refocus our intellectual efforts towards  making the world a better place for all, a place of – I quote – “peace and non-violence for the children of the world.” I  thank you for your attention.
(23) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your interesting statement. I shall give the floor to His Excellency Mr  Leif Pagrotsky, Minister for Education, Research and Culture of Sweden. You have the floor, Sir.
24.1 Mr Pagrotsky (Sweden):  Mr President of the General Conference, dear delegates, we fully associate ourselves with the statement by  the United Kingdom on behalf of the European Union.
24.2 I would like to join all my colleagues in congratulating you, Mr Musa Hassan, on your election to chair this  session of the General Conference. I would also like to congratulate UNESCO, and, hence, all of us, on its sixtieth  anniversary. There are many ways to celebrate, and we heard a lot of very appreciative speeches yesterday. That is how  it should be at a birthday party. We should also celebrate by making UNESCO more youthful and more in tune with the  world. It is true that UNESCO has changed over the years, but since the world is changing at a much faster speed we  must accelerate in our reform efforts. This is my first visit to this Organization, and I am surprised, to put it mildly. I am  excited to experience some of the richness and diversity of UNESCO’s mandate and work, but I am also somewhat  negatively surprised by some of what I have seen so far. Mr President and fellow delegates, let me take one example.  We all know that the main objective of this session of the General Conference is to take decisions on the Programme  and Budget. In order to do so, we receive as our most important policy document something that is called draft  document 33 C/5. It is a very heavy document, overloaded with technical details, which makes it impossible for  politicians like myself – and, I suppose, many of you – to read or understand. But help is on its way. There is a proposal  for a new model for this most important policy document, the C/5. It is less detailed and easier to grasp, and can serve  as a basis upon which to form an opinion. Sweden, together with the other Nordic countries, has put forward this model,  and it has received great support. I look forward to the next C/5 document.
24.3 There are also other ideas to make UNESCO more efficient and effective. The ad hoc working group on  relations between the three organs of UNESCO will present suggestions for reforming the Organization. Sweden has  taken an active part in this process. We have done so because we are convinced that UNESCO is worth the effort,  because its tasks are so tremendously important for our future. We will even go a step further and say that it is crucial  for UNESCO to take some radical steps. We must use this “historical” opportunity to make the Organization function  better. We should make the General Conference a genuine meeting place. We should make the Executive Board truly  executive. Our aim should be to strengthen UNESCO’s ability to enhance its relevance and efficiency.
24.4 Mr President, at the United Nations Summit in New York a few weeks ago, UNESCO’s key role in  promoting the internationally agreed objectives for education for all (EFA), were highlighted. The first of these  objectives – the Millennium Development Goal of achieving universal primary education for all boys and girls – is  being missed this year. 2015, by which time all the goals should have been met, is not far away, and I welcome the  work that is now being done to make UNESCO a better EFA coach for Member States and for the international  development community. UNESCO’s role should be to mobilize, to coordinate and to monitor, while the countries  themselves take care of implementation – with, of course, the support of well-coordinated external funding.
24.5 In regard to UNESCO’s programme, I would like to underline the importance of sustainable development. It  is about responsibility; our responsibility for future generations. Sustainable development is of equal importance to us  all, in every country, in every part of the world. I am therefore very happy to note that the UNESCO Youth Forum in its  report has recognized sustainable development as the biggest challenge of the twenty-first century. The Youth Forum  should serve as an inspiration to us all. Sustainable development brings together economic development, social welfare,  respect for the environment and democratic values. That, to me, is the basis of a society that is able to treat every citizen  with dignity – a good society. Sustainable development is still a vision despite positive progress at global level.  UNESCO has been appointed to lead the international community during the United Nations Decade of Education for  Sustainable Development 2005-2014. Sweden actively supports the integrating of this mission into the work to achieve  EFA. The success or failure of this task will be crucial for the Organization. Mr President, two of UNESCO’s main  functions are to serve as a laboratory of ideas and to act as a standard-setter. Both functions call for visible presence and  the active participation of younger people, without which there will be no sustainable development.
24.6 Mr President, the agenda for this session of the General Conference includes proposals for the adoption of  two conventions: the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions and the  draft international convention against doping in sport. We would like to see both of these conventions adopted. We fully  support them and think they are good texts, good compromises. I have also been pleased to note that UNESCO and  OECD have cooperated to draw up guidelines on quality provision in cross-border higher education. For young people  seeking education opportunities in this era of globalization, the guidelines represent a valuable improvement.
24.7 Finally, Mr President, I will take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Matsuura on his re-election as Director- General. He can count on Sweden’s strong support in his efforts to make UNESCO an efficient and modern  organization. Thank you all.   :א ٢٥ ،א، אא ،.א א א א א، א א  .א
(25) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your encouraging statement and kind congratulations. I shall now give  the floor to Her Excellency Ms Maira van der Hoeven, Minister of Education, Culture and Science of the Netherlands.  Please, you have the floor.
26.1 Ms van der Hoeven (Netherlands):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a  great honour to be here today to talk about dialogue between cultures. It is a dialogue we have been conducting at  UNESCO for the past sixty years, and I hope it never comes to an end. Mahatma Gandhi summed up the dialogue as  follows: “Let my house not be walled on four sides, let all the windows be open, let all the cultures blow in, but let no  culture blow me off my feet”. Ever since the end of the Second World War, UNESCO has been such a house, with all  its windows open. The following words are etched above its door: “Peace in the minds of men”.
26.2 Now, at the start of the twenty-first century, that mission is more urgent than ever. Our society, labour market  and economy are becoming more international and more multi-faceted. But not everyone feels comfortable in that huge  open space. Many people are beginning to reflect on their own identity, against the tide of globalization. And sometimes  they retreat into traditional groups and relationships and the differences between groups become more sharply  delineated. And where they conflict, extremism rears its ugly head. That can happen in any country, as has sadly often  become clear in recent years.
26.3 Ladies and gentlemen, is it naïve in this day and age to continue believing in Gandhi’s house, where many  cultures blow in? Is it naïve to believe in a peaceful, prosperous world society, where the dialogue between cultures  leads to innovation and creativity? Is it naïve to believe in a safe, tolerant society? No, it is not naïve; it is urgently  needed. And because it is needed, we must educate and nurture our young people so that they will become world  citizens. World citizens who, thanks to their social and intercultural skills, and thanks to their knowledge of other  countries and cultures, are already equipped for that dialogue. Competencies like these do not develop spontaneously. It  takes hard work. To start with, we will have to encourage people with very different origins and backgrounds to meet  each other. Not in an artificial setting, but at school, on the football field, in the theatre, in parliament or on the board of  a club or an organization. And of course, at international events such as this wonderful UNESCO conference. But it will  not be enough to meet. We will have to define and establish what binds us, what our shared values and standards are.  And that is what we are doing at this conference, when we talk about conventions on cultural diversity, bioethics and  the use of doping in sport, and when we talk about the urgently needed guidelines for cross-border quality assurance in  higher education.
26.4 Schools are meeting places par excellence, and they are also perfect places to impart values. After all, school  occupies a central place in society, and the whole of society meets at school. As the Dutch Minister of Education, I give  top priority to democratic citizenship and historic awareness of the elements that bind us, not only within our own  borders. At school, young people also learn other languages and discover other cultures and religions. So to me, a class  of children from different cultures is not a problem, it is an opportunity. An opportunity to enable young people to grow  up together and to equip them with the competencies needed to become world citizens. And I believe that teacher  training courses play a crucial role here. UNESCO also plays an important role because education and culture are  crucial for young people all over the world. Education is also essential in the fight against poverty. That is why the  Dutch Government spends 15% of its development budget on education. This morning, I appeared before the camera to  make an urgent plea for education for all. Keep it on track.
26.5 But we can achieve so much more. As you know, despite being a prosperous country, we in the Netherlands  have had to face some hard facts in recent years. At crucial moments, people from different backgrounds turn away  from each other. I think that many of my colleagues in this room are struggling with the same problem. You cannot  simply adopt the solutions other people find. Cultural and other characteristics are too diverse. But by exchanging ideas  we can learn from each other, and UNESCO provides an excellent forum. At the same time, UNESCO is the  powerhouse behind international and intercultural cooperation, which, through very tangible initiatives, promotes the  global dialogue in the field of education, culture and science. A wonderful example is the Creative Cities Network –  part of the Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity – in fields such as literature, design and primitive art. Would it not be  a good idea to involve schools in this network? That would dovetail with another initiative, the ASPnet – the UNESCO  Associated Schools Project network, which promotes school exchanges, school-to-school partnerships and joint teacher
139  training seminars. They could take place in varying configurations – North-North, South-South and North-South. And  take the Mondialogo initiative, which organizes school contests with teams from various countries and cultures.
26.6 Ladies and gentlemen, these are all wonderful illustrations of the “think global, act local” principle. So let us  shoulder our responsibility for encounters like these. Let us continue to believe in a world in which dialogue defeats  conflict. Let us contribute to that in a small way, in our countries, in the year that UNESCO turns 60. I would in any  event be delighted to help UNESCO celebrate. Together, let us continue to build that house through which the  intercultural wind blows, bringing peace to the minds of men. Thank you.   :א ٢٧,١ ، ،א א.אא ، א א א  .א
(27.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your eloquent statement. I shall now give the floor to Her Excellency  Ms Constance Simelane, Minister of Education of Swaziland.  (The President continues in English)
27.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
28.1 Ms Simelane (Swaziland):  President of the Conference, Director-General, President of the Executive Board, Ministers of Education,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President may I congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the
33rd session of the General Conference. I bring messages of goodwill from his Majesty King Swadi III, the Queen  Mother, the government and the people of the Kingdom of Swaziland. First, we wish to extend our congratulations to  Mr Matsuura, on his nomination for a second term as Director-General of UNESCO. We look forward to a continuation  of the good cooperation that exists between our country and UNESCO.
28.2 Mr President, this 33rd session of the General Conference is a landmark session for a number of reasons. The  eyes of the international community are focused on Africa through the G8 Initiative and the recent United Nations  World Summit. Furthermore, this year marks UNESCO’s sixtieth anniversary. It is therefore, an opportune time to look  critically at the role of the United Nations and more especially of UNESCO, in shaping international affairs. We wish to  preface our remarks by re-asserting that education is the cornerstone of sustainable development and that investment in  education will yield tangible results in human development. It is in the light of these developments that Swaziland is not  only pleased with the recognition of and emphasis on – as endorsed by the Summit – the critical role of both formal and  non-formal education in the eradication of poverty and other development goals. It is for these reasons that we  commend UNESCO for its sustained commitment to education for all (EFA) in the context of the Dakar Framework for  Action adopted at the World Education Forum in 2000.
28.3 Swaziland has embarked on a programme to put in place universal primary education, and we have great  confidence that this will be a big step towards realizing the EFA goals. Document 33 C/5, in outlining the roles of  literacy, HIV/AIDS prevention education and teacher training as key elements of EFA, has our endorsement. However,  Mr President, as a country we are unable to ignore the devastating effects that the HIV/AIDS pandemic is having on our  education system and on all our development efforts. In this regard, we in Swaziland are intensifying our endeavours in  HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention education and in the provision of care and support for orphans and vulnerable  children. We are also reviewing our capacity and scope for teacher training but are constrained by the lack of both  human and financial resources.
28.4 At this juncture, we therefore wish to express our gratitude for the continued support that Swaziland has been  receiving from the Director-General, within the context of the Japanese funds-in-trust, which is currently boosting ICT  capacity in our teacher-training institutions and for the EDUCAIDS project which will address capacity-building in  HIV/AIDS and education.
28.5 Unfortunately our world is plagued by many other problems, including natural disasters and terrorist attacks.  We extend our sympathy to all Member States which have been victims of such disasters. For the past decade, our part  of the world has also been suffering from severe drought which has caused great misery. As this has been coupled with  falling levels of employment, poverty rates are increasing. In this context we wish to acknowledge and applaud  UNESCO’s role in the natural and human sciences and its focus on the prevention of such disasters. The special focus  on water resources management through the centre for Water Hazard and Risk Management will greatly help us in  developing strategies to cope with the endemic droughts that we are experiencing.
28.6 Mr President, we cannot help but express our preoccupation with the place of education for peace. Yes,
60 years on, UNESCO’s Constitution remains more relevant than ever in its mission to “build the defences of peace in  the minds of men” especially in the minds of our youth. Hence the need to integrate education for a culture of peace into
140  all our curricular activities. Both the EFA and the MDG goals can only be achieved in an atmosphere of peace, in order  to ensure sustainable development.
28.7 We concede that communication and information cut across all activities of UNESCO and are pleased to see  the attempts to build and strengthen national capacities in access to information and knowledge. We realize the vital  importance of ICTs and support their use in education, including in distance education.
28.8 Mr President, Swaziland wishes to applaud the efforts that have been made to further decentralization within  the context of the reform process, especially the building of capacity in the cluster and field offices. We appreciate the  growing collaboration with the Windhoek cluster office, and look forward to further strengthening the capacity of the  office and its relations with Swaziland. We would also like to express our appreciation of the good work being done by  other UNESCO institutions.
28.9 Lastly, ladies and gentlemen, culture is the backbone and the foundation for lasting peace and development in  our communities and hence in our countries. Swaziland, as a strong proponent of culture, commends the activities of the  Culture Sector in protecting the cultural heritage, safeguarding cultural diversity and promoting training and capacity- building to develop policies for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. The commitment to cultural  diversity must not only resonate in these hallowed walls, but should be a way of life: we in Swaziland have maintained  peace and harmony by adhering to our cultural traditions and values. We subscribe to the importance of the dialogue  among civilizations and regard respect and tolerance as the basis and key to a culture of peace. Mr President, ladies and  gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.    :א ٢٩,١ א א ، אא א ، ، א א ، .א א א א א، א א  .א
(29.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your eloquent statement. I should also like to thank His Majesty the  King, your government and people, and you personally for these kind congratulations. I shall now give the floor to His  Excellency Mr Pavel Svoboda, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic.  (The President continues in English)
29.2 You have the floor, Excellency.
30.1 Mr Svoboda (Czech Republic):  Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate you,  Mr Musa Hassan, on your election as President of this session of the General Conference. Let me also fully endorse the  statement presented on behalf of the European Union by Baroness Amos of Brondesbury, Leader of the House of Lords,  from the United Kingdom.
30.2 UNESCO is an important part of the United Nations family which my country regards as a key element of  the system of multilateral cooperation. It is a unique instrument in promoting peaceful cooperation and mutual  understanding among peoples and cultures. No doubt there is still much room for improvement. Therefore, we strongly  support the reform of both the United Nations and UNESCO. The sixtieth anniversary of our Organization is a special  opportunity not only to sum up our past achievements and failures but also to redefine UNESCO’s future role and tasks  in accordance with outcomes of the 2005 World Summit. In this connection, I would like to praise the efforts of the  former President of the General Conference, Mr Omolewa. Under his guidance the special ad hoc working group has  contributed substantially to our deliberations and future decisions. Indeed, we need to restore the General Conference as  the main decision-making body, to focus the attention of the Executive Board on its main task of monitoring the  implementation of the adopted programmes, and to reform the Secretariat with a view to increasing its effectiveness and  accountability. During the past years, the management systems of UNESCO have been considerably improved. Now it  is time to reform its programme activities. We regard the preparation of the next Medium-Term Strategy as the best  opportunity to introduce a new vision for our future actions. Therefore the Czech Republic has co-sponsored the draft  resolution on modalities for the preparation and future content of this strategic document.
30.3 UNESCO should strive first and foremost to strengthen cooperation within the reformed United Nations  system. Its broad mandate requires us to concentrate strictly on priorities. We should not be afraid to terminate activities  that are of lesser importance or covered by other United Nations bodies, and at the same time to face newly emerging  challenges. Education remains the main priority of UNESCO. But education, in our view, should not be restricted only  to offering various kinds of knowledge. It should be a lifelong process of promoting moral and social values geared to  enabling us to live together with other people, other cultures and religions, and with nature as a whole. UNESCO shall  help achieve the Millennium Development Goals in the field of education, and shall fulfil its role as the lead agency in  the implementation of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014).
30.4 The Czech Republic firmly believes that countries, peoples and communities are each contributing  permanently to our common cultural heritage and to mutually beneficial cultural exchanges. Therefore, the draft  convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions has our full support. The work of  protecting and promoting cultural diversity is not and cannot be confined to a single sector or single programme. We  should capitalize on UNESCO’s intersectoral nature in order to further fruitful cooperation on the part of experts and  institutions from the sectors of education, science and communication.
30.5 Mr President, I would like to conclude by reaffirming the continuing commitment of the Czech Republic to  the lofty goals of UNESCO. We will continue to provide the Organization with adequate intellectual and material  support. The Czech Republic is in favour of a slight nominal increase in the regular budget for the next biennium. We  are also gradually increasing extrabudgetary contributions to UNESCO programmes by providing scholarships, for  instance, and contributing to the restoration of cultural heritage damaged in armed conflicts. In the next biennium we  are also planning to extend our voluntary contributions to projects in the fields of science, communication and  information. What we expect from this Organization is, as I have already indicated, greater efficiency, more far- reaching reform and significant programme concentration. May I express the hope that all of UNESCO’s activities will  be as effective and well-orchestrated as yesterday’s beautiful anniversary concert. Thank you for your attention.   :א ٣١ א א א.א ، א א א ،  .א
(31) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Sir, for your instructive statement and your kind congratulations. I shall now give the floor to Dr  Fasli Jalal, Deputy Minister of Education of Indonesia. You have the floor, Sir.
32.1 Mr Jalal (Indonesia):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, heads of delegations, ambassadors, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, let me first of all convey warm greetings from Indonesia and offer my heartfelt congratulations to  His Excellency, Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, for assuming the presidency of the General Conference and to  the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, for being nominated for a second term. I would also like to extend my highest  appreciation to His Excellency, Ambassador Michael Abiola Omolewa, the outgoing President, for his excellent  leadership during the last session of the General Conference.
32.2 Before I proceed with my statement, let me express my government’s heartfelt regrets for the bombings  perpetrated by irresponsible individuals in Bali last weekend, which undoubtedly deserve our severe condemnation. In  this connection, allow me to convey our highest appreciation for your expressions of support and sympathy.  Furthermore, our sincere gratitude also goes to all UNESCO Member States for the support and kind assistance  rendered to the Acehnese people, who have been severely hit by the tsunami.
32.3 Mr President, education is a constitutional right for every citizen in our country. It has always been our  national commitment to fulfil this right. Our efforts have so far been geared to accelerating the achievement of the  Millennium Development Goals and education for all (EFA) goals. With all the resources we have, combined with  technical assistance we have received through partnerships, cooperation and collaboration with other countries, agencies  and organizations, including UNESCO, we are determined to complete in 2008 our nine-year compulsory basic  education programme and reduce by half the numbers of illiterate people in our country, now totalling 15.5 million.  This would be accomplished through both formal and non-formal education programmes, targeted at over 40 million  pupils. We are simultaneously committed to expanding our senior secondary education to reach around eight million  students and higher education to reach around four million students. In all these efforts, gender mainstreaming has been  set as one of our top priorities. With over 50 million students spread throughout the archipelago consisting of over
17,000 islands, the realization of this commitment will be an impossible task to accomplish if we just depend on  conventional management and service delivery. We have therefore decided to mainstream information and  communication technology (ICT) in our education development programmes for both management and service delivery.
32.4 To ensure that our nation keeps abreast with the social and economic developments at both national and  international levels, we are also committed to improving the quality and relevance of our education. The national  educational standards in respect of contents, process, graduate outcomes, educational personnel, facilities and  equipment, management, funding and educational assessment, as mandated by our National Education Act, will be the  stepping stone for quality improvement. Related to this is our renewed commitment to facilitating the integrated  development of children’s ethical, moral, religious, intellectual, aesthetic and kinaesthetic potential to ensure that they  will become citizens who, with their knowledge and skills, can contribute positively not only to their own self- development, but also to their nation and mankind. Only through this will education be meaningful for sustainable  development.
32.5 Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed the significant  contribution made by great advances in science and technology to the betterment of our lives. These advances have
142  made it possible for people to exploit natural resources in innovative ways and have fostered invention, for the benefit  of us all and for future generations. At the same time, however, we have also experienced acute environmental  degradation caused by scientific and technological abuses. Unwise exploitation and misuse of technological inventions  have indeed damaged our ecological and social systems, hence endangering the whole life system of our planet. The  challenge is inevitable: how to reconcile natural resource use with nature conservation; and the freedom to invent and  innovate technologically with safety concerns, social harmony and peace. The development of science should be  harnessed by a scientist’s code of ethics to guarantee that no counterproductive implications affect mankind.
32.6 Indonesia extends its highest appreciation to UNESCO for conserving, protecting and promoting our cultural  heritage – the Borobudur site and the wayang (puppets) and keris (daggers) art forms. One important cultural issue we  feel worth raising is the importance of nurturing cultural diversity, which in fact characterizes every nation. Human  beings have been created to be different, to be able to know one another, to live in harmony with others and to learn  from one another so that they can improve their lives in a sustainable manner. Cultural diversity in Indonesia, for  example, has been the result of differing histories of the people’s contacts with other people and environments in the  geographical setting of a vast archipelago. Our culture is to a large extent diverse. It is composed of more than
350 ethnic cultures expressed in more than 700 languages, in different batik designs, architectural models, types and  tastes of food, customs, traditional dances and music, and forms our indigenous local knowledge and wisdom. The  diversity of cultural values, outlooks and capacity, together with the variety, openness and adaptability of social forms  are our culture’s most basic structural features. It is to these features that the greatest strength and durability of our  society as a whole are attributable. Indonesia therefore lends its full support to the UNESCO draft convention on the  protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions and recommends that intercultural and interfaith  dialogues be facilitated by UNESCO.
32.7 Let me now turn to sport. In my view, sport is an effective means of building a culture of brotherhood and  friendship, in which honesty and fairness are two important values. Therefore, Indonesia endorses the draft international  convention against doping in sports.
32.8 Mr President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, basic education is not yet equally  enjoyed by children in many countries, for various reasons. One factual and essential reason is the lack of legal  commitment on the part of governments. In this respect, Indonesia has taken an initiative to host an international  conference on the legal framework for financing basic education as a fundamental human right. This conference is to  take place in Jakarta in early December 2005. Only with adequate funding, safeguarded legally, will basic education be  enjoyed by every child in this world. Let me take this opportunity to invite you all to this conference and share your all- important, valuable views on this very significant matter.
32.9 Let me take this opportunity to welcome our fellow ASEAN countries, Brunei Darussalam as a new Member  of UNESCO and Singapore as a Permanent Observer.
32.10 To conclude, I would like convey the sincere gratitude and appreciation of my government to the members of  the Asia and the Pacific group for supporting and endorsing the nomination of Indonesia’s representative on the  Executive Board, Dr Arief Rachman, as Chairperson of the Board for the period 2005-2007. In this connection, my  government hopes to receive continued support from all Member States of UNESCO. Thank you very much.    :א ٣٣ ،א א א.א א ، א א א ،  .א
(33) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Sir, for your important statement, for your kind congratulations and for the support of your people  and government. I shall now give the floor to His Excellency Mr Imangali Tasmagambetov, Chairman of the National  Commission of Kazakhstan. You have the floor, Sir.
(34.1) Mr Tasmagambetov (Kazakhstan) (translation from the Russian):  Distinguished President of the General Conference, distinguished Chairman of the Executive Board, ladies and  gentlemen. I am sincerely delighted to be here at our regular meeting, which I am convinced will be, as always, constructive  and fruitful. First of all, allow me to congratulate Mr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, on his election as President of the General  Conference at its 33rd session – he will ensure that the proceedings are properly conducted. Having broached the subject of  the Organization’s leadership, I should also like to note Mr Koïchiro Matsuura’s vigorous action as Director-General of  UNESCO. We associate him with a high level of transparency and discipline in the execution of the Organization’s  programmes. Largely as a result of his efforts in the international community, there is a growing realization that the  development of a global conscience is only possible through dialogue among cultures. The times are passing when  cooperation between States came about exclusively through political and economic interests. Humanity has outlived the  phase when the word “globalization” was used exclusively in the context of the unilateral invasion of western values. It is  already clear to all that we have only one chance of avoiding the sombre prediction of a clash of civilizations – by expanding  the spiritual sphere of the planet. And the only way of achieving this is to grasp and combine the values of each people.  Naturally, such a mission for the Organization would give fresh impetus to close cooperation among all the countries of the  world. I should like to assure you that the Republic of Kazakhstan aims for active cooperation with UNESCO, which is  becoming a genuine unifying force in the context of globalization.
(34.2) It is gratifying that the Organization is providing us with significant assistance in protecting the cultural  heritage. Working closely together, we are implementing projects in the field of education and information and  communication technologies, in support of young scientists and in the development of pluralism. A national strategy has  been elaborated in the framework of the education for all programme, in conjunction with UNESCO. In regard to the  consolidation of freedom of opinion and human rights, Kazakhstan will shortly be ratifying two basic international  covenants – the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social  and Cultural Rights. We are grateful to UNESCO for its support for the policy applied by the Government of Kazakhstan  in the field of culture and development of inter-faith dialogue. In this connection, I should like once more to thank the  Organization for the attention paid to preparations for the Second Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional  Religions to be held in Almaty in 2006. The foregoing by no mean implies that we are concentrating solely on tackling  our own national tasks. We are prepared to take an active part in developing the Organization’s strategy, and as the  current debate informs the development of general policy, I should like to make a few proposals.
(34.3) We are of the opinion that the main tasks of UNESCO’s action must remain issues of universal and quality  education, capacity-building for the evaluation of water resources and the protection of the ecosystem, the ethics of  science and technology and the promotion of universal access to information and knowledge. Of course, we consider the  defence of cultural diversity and support for dialogue among cultures to be a strategic priority. A few words about the  measures to give effect to these positions. I believe that the World Summit on the Information Society, due to take place  in Tunis in November 2005, should strengthen the basis for the wide-scale introduction of the rising generations to  science and knowledge. Indeed, if our aim is to build a peaceful all-embracing human community, then we must bear in  mind that we can have no faith in the collective wisdom of ignorant individuals. Accordingly, the concept of the  knowledge society, which UNESCO has promoted and defended since 2003, warrants full support. At that time, ministers  of education of the States Members of UNESCO solemnly announced that building a knowledge society is the most  important means for the establishment of a peaceful and just global society. This imperative, as the Director-General of  UNESCO quite rightly pointed out, must become a factor of integration in intergovernmental cooperation. Kazakhstan  intends to continue providing UNESCO with all possible support on this issue. In particular, considering that UNESCO  has held a range of international meetings to promote and explain various aspects of the knowledge society, we are also  prepared to hold a conference on the matter in Kazakhstan. It would be a good idea to establish a special intersectoral  UNESCO programme on building knowledge societies. Criminality among the young is a serious social problem which  UNESCO could help to resolve by improving education. Many countries, regardless of their level of development, are  faced with this phenomenon. As you know, the Director-General has established an Intersectoral Working Group on  Youth Violence in Central America. We call on UNESCO to extend its experience of combating this phenomenon to  other regions as well, including Central Asia.
(34.4) I cannot ignore subjects of such great relevance to Central Asia as problems of sustainable development and  protection of the environment. This year, we are celebrating not only the sixtieth anniversary of the founding of UNESCO  but also the sixtieth anniversary of the dropping of the first atomic bomb in the history of humanity. We therefore urge  UNESCO to constantly keep in mind the extensive damage caused by nuclear tests in Kazakhstan to the population’s health  and the environment and to provide for practical measures that might contribute to the rehabilitation of the Semipalatinsk  region in the Organization’s action, in accordance with United Nations General Assembly resolutions.
(34.5) I should also like to note a useful UNESCO initiative, the organization in Paris in 2005 of the first festival on  cultural diversity and dialogue in Central Asia. Unremitting attention to the discussion of these issues is a feature of the  countries taking part in the festival through whose territories the ancient Silk Road ran, linking East and West. Central  Asia is a unique area where for centuries different civilizations and cultures crossed each others’ paths and different  religions and faiths coexisted in harmony. The forum was a bright event in the cultural and spiritual life of our countries.  Another important step in the safeguarding of the cultural diversity of human civilization will be the adoption by the  General Conference of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. I should  like to note that Kazakhstan intends to ratify soon a whole range of UNESCO legal instruments including the Convention  for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage and the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing  the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property. Kazakhstan welcomes the topical nature of  UNESCO’s standard-setting action. We support the adoption at the current session of the General Conference of the  international convention against doping in sport and the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights. In this  connection, I must stress that in Kazakhstan we are preparing to establish a national committee on bioethics and the  ethics of science and technology.
(34.6) Mr President, Kazakhstan has more than once spoken about the need for UNESCO to find more appropriate  responses to today’s challenges. However, the forms and methods of its work have been better adapted to specific tasks.  In this respect, I consider that it is necessary to improve coordination and concordance of work plans among National  Commissions for UNESCO and UNESCO representatives in the field. First, this would make UNESCO activities more  visible and effective and, secondly, enable greater account to be taken of the interests and wishes of the countries where  they take place. A clear example of the coincidence of UNESCO’s plans and the interests of the Central Asian countries  is the decision of the Executive Board concerning a regional ministerial conference on the strategic role of renewable  energies in sustainable development in Central Asia to be held in 2006 in Kazakhstan. The conference will draw the  attention of the international community to the acute energy problems of semidesert regions with little water.
(34.7) Mr President. In conclusion I should like to make the point that questions of peace and security lie at the heart  of UNESCO’s mandate. Accordingly, there is and always will be room for UNESCO’s action. What is most important is  that the Organization lives up to the hopes of our countries and peoples, as it does today. Thank you for your attention.   :א ٣٥,١ א א א א ، ،.א א א א א א א.א ،.
(35.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Your Excellency, for your interesting statement and your kind congratulations. I shall now give  the floor to Ms Marva Ribeiro, Head of International Cooperation, Trinidad and Tobago. You have the floor, Madam.  (The President continues in English)
35.2 Please, you have the floor, thank you.
36.1 Ms Ribeiro (Trinidad and Tobago):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Trinidad and Tobago joins other countries in congratulating  the Director-General on his re-election, and wishes him the wisdom and strength that he will certainly need to face the  many challenges of his second term in office. We also commend the efforts of the ad hoc working group on the  relationship between the three organs of UNESCO. The work that they have done is crucial for streamlining the  operating procedures of the Organization. We agree that various reforms are vital if UNESCO is to effectively assist in  confronting the many global challenges being faced in the fields of education, culture, science and communication. The  recommendation to introduce a programme-management cycle of four years is supported by Trinidad and Tobago. We  have reservations, however, about the proposal to reduce the size of the Executive Board. Notwithstanding the  recommendation that such a reduction should be accompanied by an effective application of the principle of rotation,  we hold the firm view that such a reduction would work against the interests of smaller developing Member States. It is  therefore vital that the entire membership be represented at this level.
36.2 Mr President, Trinidad and Tobago is convinced that the draft convention on the protection and promotion of  the diversity of cultural expressions will serve as a key international instrument in preserving cultural diversity and we  do not wish to have the debate reopened. We commend the Director-General for successfully executing the mandate  assigned to him at the last General Conference, and it is our hope that this convention will be unanimously adopted at  this General Conference. Trinidad and Tobago has recently become a signatory to the World Heritage Convention. We  ask UNESCO to facilitate the identification of potential sites and the development of cultural industries. We plan to
146  become a signatory to the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. I am sure that some of  you are aware that Trinidad and Tobago’s carnival is the best in the world. Trinidad and Tobago has already achieved  the education for all (EFA) Dakar target of gender parity. Our girls are doing exceedingly well. However, we are  increasingly concerned at the lesser performance of our male students at primary and secondary levels. Indeed, we fear  that the apparent disaffection of an increasing number of young males could have a negative impact on social cohesion.  We must find strategies to teach our young males strategies that acknowledge the differences between the ways boys  and girls learn, and put in place programmes that unobtrusively target boys’ performance.
36.3 UNESCO’s focus on quality education is a critical component in the achievement of sustainable development.  For sustainable development in education, quality teachers in sufficient quantity are required to ensure quality education.  Trinidad and Tobago agrees with other countries in the Caribbean, and other developing countries, that all countries  involved in the recruitment of trained teachers comply with the Protocol on Teacher Recruitment that was developed  with the assistance of the Commonwealth Secretariat and approved by the Ministers of Education of the Americas at  their fourth meeting in August 2005. So critical is this issue for us that Trinidad and Tobago has submitted a resolution  for your acceptance, approval and action. In recognition of the role that UNESCO plays in the sub-region in the area of  quality education, we look forward to continued support from the Organization to enhance our quality assurance efforts.  The delivery of quality education also requires an environment with a culture and tone that are conducive to learning.  Thus, taking into account the significant impact of the UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network and the UNESCO  Clubs, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago is seeking to expand the network and clubs throughout schools in order  to reduce the levels of young people’s lack of discipline and violence, while promoting a culture of peace and tolerance.  UNESCO’s continued focus on the ASP Network is therefore fully appreciated.
36.4 Quality education and, in particular, quality science education, are indispensable tools for sustainable  development. While we are grateful for UNESCO’s positive initiatives in the Caribbean in science education, and look  forward to its continued assistance, we are concerned with the lowering of the grade assigned to the existing posts at the  Kingston Office to service this critical area.
36.5 Mr President, the last of the five volumes of the History of the Caribbean is in its final stages of completion.  These volumes of Caribbean history represent a regional treasure. It would be a wonderful contribution to Caribbean  youth if UNESCO could assist in making this vital information available as a teaching tool by creating dynamic  versions of the material for use by the student population.
36.6 Mr President, natural disaster preparedness and mitigation is another key element in securing the overall  objectives of sustainable development. We too were shocked and saddened by the overwhelming devastation wrought  by the Indian Ocean tsunami and the unprecedented hurricanes in the Atlantic region. As a small island developing  State, we are acutely aware of our vulnerability to such threats. We therefore support the flagship activity in Major  Programme II on knowledge, education and information for natural disaster reduction. We see this as an important  mechanism to foster a culture of mitigation, preparedness and community response in times of adversity.
36.7 We cannot speak of quality education for sustainable development if we do not take note that a significant  proportion of the population is affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Education has a fundamental role to play in the  reduction of HIV/AIDS; for it is education that develops young people’s awareness of this problem and enables them to  reflect on their values and make informed decisions. Trinidad and Tobago notes and commends the Director-General  for his support to the region in HIV/AIDS prevention education. It is our understanding that the UNESCO- Commonwealth Regional Chair in Education and HIV/AIDS is the first in the world. Of great significance is the fact  that the Chair is established at the University of the West Indies and is occupied by Professor David Plumber of  Australia. We urge UNESCO to continue its work in this critical area.
36.8 As we are aware, distinguished delegates, education is the source and the solution. I thank you.   :א ٣٧ א ، א ، א.א ، א א א ،.
(37) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your important statement. I shall now give the floor to His Excellency  Mr Yahia Yakhlef, Minister of Culture of Palestine. You have the floor, Sir.   ):(א ٣٨,١ א א ، ، א א א ، א א ، א א ، א א אא א א א א ، א א א א ؛ א א א א א א א ،.א ، ، א א ، א אא א ، א א.א א
(38.1) Mr Yakhlef (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):  President of the General Conference, gentlemen on this platform, distinguished audience, ladies and gentlemen, I  come to you from Palestine, from the holy territories that thirst for freedom, justice and independence; from the occupied  Palestinian territories that are surrounded by Israeli military roadblocks, by settlements, by the racist separation wall. From  my Palestinian leadership, from the sons of my country, I should like to convey to you the warmest greetings and the deepest  respect. You represent the conscience of humanity. You defend the highest human values. You all believe in the goals and  mission of UNESCO. I should also like to express my heartfelt wishes to His Excellency Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin  Hassan on his unanimous election as President of the General Conference for its current session. I also convey my  compliments to Mr Koïchiro Matsuura on his election for a second term as Director-General of UNESCO.
(38.2) Ladies and gentlemen, it brings my country great pride and honour to take part in this international  Conference. My country aspires alongside you to take part effectively in realizing international peace and security by  ensuring opportunities for quality education; by spreading knowledge and openness on the cultures of the world; by  encouraging science and scientific research; by strengthening the culture of peace and respect for the Other, within the  framework of equal opportunities; by following the noble ideas expressed in the UNESCO Universal Declaration on  Cultural Diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, Palestine is the land of the three revealed prophetic traditions. It is the cradle of  religions, the land of civilizations and holy sites. It contains treasures in the form of antiquities, sites and outstanding  cultural heritage closely connected to the heart and soul of all human beings. At the core of this cultural heritage, the holy  city of Jerusalem enjoys the status it deserves. It is a historic city rich in ancient remains and walls, rich in the heritage of  civilization and humanity. It is, however, a city that has been under Israeli occupation since 1967 and has been subjected  to attempts to obliterate its Arab and Palestinian identity, to rend its cultural fabric, and to alter its geographical nature. It  has been and continues to be subject to attempts to Judaize it, to build settlements within and around it, to surround it  with the racist separation wall, and to deny its Islamic and Christian worshippers access to its holy sites. Thousands of  Palestinian pupils and teachers are also prevented from attending their educational institutions, contrary to all legal  international agreements and resolutions and in violation – by the Israeli occupation authorities – of international law and  human rights. On behalf of Palestine I extend greetings from this platform to UNESCO which, in all of its resolutions and  decisions, has emphasized the legal status of the city of Jerusalem as an occupied territory subject to the resolutions of the
148  Security Council and the General Assembly of the United Nations, from which it follows that the unilateral actions taken  by the occupation authorities are inadmissible. I also wish to convey greetings and expressions of esteem to the Director- General of UNESCO, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who announced at the 31st session of the General Conference a  comprehensive plan to safeguard, preserve and rehabilitate the cultural heritage of the city of Jerusalem. On behalf of the  Palestinian people I commend his efforts to ensure the full implementation of UNESCO’s resolutions and decisions  concerning the city of Jerusalem. I also wish to thank UNESCO for its efforts to rehabilitate Palestinian educational,  cultural and media institutions which are monitored by the Joint UNESCO-Palestinian Authority Committee.
(38.3) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end my statement by stressing our commitment to the goals and  mission of UNESCO, and our support for the efforts of the Organization and its Director-General in the fields of  education, culture and the sciences and with regard to the dissemination and generalization of knowledge in the service of  the goals of peace, justice and democracy. We also lay stress on UNESCO’s role in strengthening the humanitarian  aspect of culture as a tool of knowledge and not a commodity; on the need to protect national cultures, particularly  cultures that are threatened, and our Palestinian culture which is threatened by the occupation. On this occasion, I wish to  re-emphasize our full support for the preliminary draft convention on the protection of cultural contents and artistic  expressions. We hope that our respected Conference will adopt it unanimously.
(38.4) In closing I convey to you the greetings of the Palestinian people which challenges the occupation with the  culture of resistance and challenges despair with hope. It aspires to freedom considering that the choice of peace is a  strategic choice, a wager on the support of the international community, international legality and international law.  Thank you.   :א ٣٩ א א ، א ، א.א א א א ، ، א א א א ،.
(39) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Honourable Minister, for your eloquent words and your kind congratulations. I shall now give the  floor to His Excellency Mr Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, Secretary General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. You  have the floor, Sir.
40.1 Mr İhsanoğlu (Organization of the Islamic Conference):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of distinct privilege and  pleasure for me today to address the General Conference of UNESCO and I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to  extend my heartfelt thanks and appreciation for the kind invitation addressed to the Organization of the Islamic  Conference (OIC) to partake in this important international gathering. First of all, allow me to begin, Mr President, by  congratulating you on your election to the presidency of the General Conference. I would like also to extend to the  Director-General our sincere congratulations on his unanimous nomination for a second term. May I also extend to you  our congratulations on the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, this pioneering Organization which is consistently  discharging its noble mission in uplifting societies in the fields of education, science and culture.
40.2 Mr President, the Organization of the Islamic Conference has been taking an increasing interest in the  activities of UNESCO. This derives from the convergence of the mission of the two Organizations, focused on the need  to bolster cooperation among States in the fields of education, culture and science for the benefit of achieving the goals  of international peace and security. Our participation also proceeds from the provisions of the cooperation agreement  concluded between the two parties in 1979, and from the implementation of the resolutions of the Islamic summit and  ministerial conferences which called for enhanced coordination between our two organizations.
40.3 We have made a point, as part of the restructuring programme undertaken by the new administration of OIC,  of strengthening our cooperation with the United Nations system, which had already started, by including it among our  Organization’s programme and priorities and its future-oriented perspective for the achievement of our common goals  through the promotion of socio-economic, cultural and scientific development. Within the scope of this new vision and  to boost coordination with UNESCO in all areas of common interest, we have set up an ambassador-level OIC group in  UNESCO that reflects the Islamic States’ keen interest in this cooperation.
40.4 Mr President, under the prevailing security challenges facing our world today, with the spread of the heinous  phenomena of terrorism, radicalism and fanaticism, it has become incumbent on us to intensify our joint efforts at all  levels to combat these phenomena which undermine international security and stability, and which we declare from this  forum, once again, as totally antithetical to the principles and values of Islam, which believes in the unity of human  origins, acknowledges cultural and religious diversity, advocates the dignity of man as the vice-regent of God on earth,  and promotes the values of tolerance and coexistence between all peoples and faiths.
40.5 We wish to recall here with pride the conferences and symposiums jointly organized by the two institutions  to crystallize the principle of dialogue, the most recent being the conference held in Rabat in June, and aimed at the  enhancement of interactive dialogue among cultures and civilizations through sustained, practical initiatives in  cooperation with other organizations. We look forward to further symposiums and seminars organized in conjunction  with UNESCO to showcase the positive aspects of enhanced cultural dialogue among civilizations, to remove the
149  accumulated barriers of misunderstanding and to consolidate the human bonds connecting people. We are also looking  forward to broader cultural and scientific cooperation between UNESCO, OIC and its specialized, subsidiary and  affiliated organs, such as ISESCO, IRCICA, COMSTECH and the Islamic University of Technology.
40.6 Mr President, despite all the natural and human resources at its disposal, the Islamic world is still facing  multiple challenges in the fields of education, culture and science, the foremost of which are the issue of illiteracy and  the knowledge gap in the fields of science and technology. The overcoming of these obstacles calls for the  concentration of international efforts. The Forum of Muslim Scholars and Intellectuals in preparation for the  Extraordinary Islamic Summit, recently held in Makkah (Mecca), has set out the new vision and strategy of OIC in this  regard, with a view to promoting the socio-economic, scientific and cultural development of OIC countries.
40.7 In my capacity as the Secretary-General of OIC, which has in its fold a membership of 57 countries, I wish to  urge UNESCO to step up its efforts to promote education for all (EFA) and to extend technical assistance to OIC  Member States in the fields of scientific research, information technology, communication, instruction and educational  services for the benefit of sustained development, and in particular to respond to the urgent needs of Islamic universities  sponsored by OIC in West Africa and Asia. UNESCO’s necessary support to OIC countries in the fields of science, IT,  renewable energy resources, and the preservation of natural resources is also needed.
40.8 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic situation endured by the scientific, educational and cultural  institutions in the occupied Arab Territories is a matter of deep concern for OIC States, in light of the continued  attempts to demolish, deface or Judaize the historic buildings. In this connection, we wish to pay tribute to the efforts of  UNESCO for the preservation of the Palestinian heritage, for the restoration of the historic structure of the city of al- Quds ash-Sharīf (Jerusalem) and in support of the Palestinian educational, cultural and scientific institutions. We invite  UNESCO to increase its efforts to safeguard the Palestinian heritage, Islamic and Christian monuments and the  distinctive human character of Jerusalem. We also express our concern over the devastation inflicted upon the Iraqi  historic buildings, and pay tribute here to UNESCO’s concrete projects in support of Iraqi educational and cultural  institutions. We call for increased efforts to protect the cultural heritage and historic sites and vestiges in Iraq and  Kurdistan. We also wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity to invite UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee to pay  greater attention to Islamic vestiges and historical and cultural sites of outstanding value and to include them in its  World Heritage List.
40.9 In conclusion, Mr President, allow me to wish this Conference every success and to reassure you, on behalf  of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, of our keen readiness to develop our bilateral relations with UNESCO  for the achievement of the goals of both Organizations for the benefit of a better future for peoples at the educational,  scientific and cultural levels. I thank you.   :א ٤١,١ א א ، א א ، ، ،.א ، א ، א א א א א א א א ، א ، א א א א אא.א א ، ، ، א א ، א  .א
(41.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Your Excellency, for this important statement and for your kind congratulations. Ladies and  gentlemen, some speakers ran over the time limit, but fortunately they used up the remaining time of others who did not  take all of the time allotted to them. Twenty delegates spoke this morning, which may be considered quite an  achievement, one which is due, in my view, to the cooperation which they demonstrated without any prior agreement.  (The President continues in English)
41.2 Thank you very much. I will see you all this afternoon.    The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.25  Заседание закрывается в 13.25  א א١,٢٥א   会议于 13 时 25 分结束