(1.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, we begin the afternoon session.  I should like to begin the afternoon session with a short French story. Colbert, a minister of King Louis XIV, was a  modest man who hated ostentation. He used to go to the government offices and come back on foot, without taking a  servant with him. One day, the King noticed him walking towards the palace. He was displeased at the sight and took  Colbert to task for it, saying, “Do you not know that you are a minister of Louis XIV? How can you ignore your status  and walk among the people on foot?” The minister answered him, “Your Majesty, a man’s value is not in his feet but in  his head.” Now, as we get to work, I should like to remind you that we are meeting this afternoon to adopt the reports of  the Commissions I and IV respectively. Before beginning to discuss the topic, I should like to remind you that the joint  meeting between the Administrative Commission and all of the other Commissions will take place at 4.30 p.m. in  Room XI. We must therefore finish our own work, that of Commission I, before that time. As I said yesterday, we shall  once again come back at 5.15 p.m. for the plenary session to discuss the report of Commission IV and the draft  convention on cultural diversity. I should now like to ask Her Excellency the Ambassador, Chairperson of Commission I,  to come forward and present the report. Please come ahead, Your Excellency. On behalf of all of you, ladies and  gentlemen, I should like to welcome Her Excellency Ambassador Bhaswati Mukherjee, Chairperson of Commission I, to  take the floor and read her oral report.  (The President continues in English)
1.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
2.1 Ms Mukherjee (India) (Chairperson of Commission I):  Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to present the oral report of Commission I.  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General, honourable delegates, dear colleagues and friends, it is  both an honour and a privilege to present this report on the work of Commission I to the General Conference at its
33rd session. I should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to members of Commission I for the quality  of the debate, as well as the spirit of camaraderie, flexibility and mutual understanding they displayed during a week in  which the Commission dealt with several important topics affecting the core functions of this Organization. Despite our  heavy workload, we had only one extended session and only one recommendation adopted by vote. I wish to take this  opportunity to thank the members of the Bureau for their support, in particular the Rapporteur and also Ms Alissandra  Cummins, who chaired two sessions of the Commission.
2.2 I have attempted to make this report, dear colleagues, a little different from other commission reports. For  one thing, it is very short, so as not to bore you with all the details, which will be available in the documents, and I have  also tried to present a synthesis of the decisions reached by the Commission. The substantive questions addressed  throughout the meetings, together with the adopted recommendations, form an integral part of the written report of the  Commission submitted as document 33 C/81.
2.3 The Commission conducted its work in the course of 12 meetings, consisting of 11 debates on 16 items held  between 11 and 17 October 2005. The first debate was devoted to item 3.2 “Preparation of the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy 2008-2013”. Representatives of 29 Member States took the floor on this item. Debate 2 dealt with item 3.1  “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009”, and representatives of 21 Member States took the  floor.
2.4 The Commission then continued its discussions, during the second and third meetings, on debate 3, relating  to issues concerning the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 – Part II.B: Participation Programme and Part  III.A: External Relations and Cooperation. It also dealt with proposals for the celebration of anniversaries with which  UNESCO could be associated, and the definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of  regional activities.
2.5 The representative of the Director-General, Mr Ahmed Sayyad, Assistant Director-General for External  Relations and Cooperation, provided an overall introduction to these items. He stressed that owing to a 12% reduction  of the Sector’s budget, a reorganization was necessary. However, the budget allocated to the Division of Relations with  National Commissions and New Partnerships, and its visibility would not be reduced, given the high importance  attached to cooperation with National Commissions and the continued need to increase capacity-building in National  Commissions.
2.6 Debate 3(a) on the Participation Programme saw 50 Member States taking part in the debate, which  underlined the importance of this programme. Delegates expressed their satisfaction as to the transparency of its  management. Some requested that the number of proposals be maintained at 12 projects instead of the proposed 10. The  Commission, at the request of several Member States, amended paragraph 12004 Rev. of document 33 C/5 Rev. Add.  so as to ensure that no new financial contribution will be paid until the applicant has submitted all the financial reports  certified by the Secretary-General of the National Commission which have been certified by the competent authority.
2.7 Mr Chairman, I now move to debate 3(b), which took into consideration items 4.2 – Part III.B, 5.1 and 6.4.  Representatives of 29 Member States and one non-governmental organization took the floor during this portion of the  debate, held during the fourth meeting of the Commission. Concerning item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007” – Part III.B: External Relations and Cooperation, all representatives  highlighted the important role played by National Commissions in helping UNESCO to conceive, implement and  evaluate its programme, raise its visibility, and promote its partnerships with civil society at the country level. The need  for greater and improved communication and consultation between field offices and National Commissions was noted.  Several speakers commented on the efforts to build capacity within National Commissions through staff training.  Clarifications were sought in relation to the World Federation of UNESCO Clubs, Centres and Associations (WFUCA).  In fact this was the difficult part of the debate, Mr President. Members requested more information about the outcome  of the July 2005 meeting. Member States wished to have clarifications about the funding of this meeting, the suspension  of the Executive Committee, the newly self-designated coordination body, and the re-establishment of official relations  with UNESCO. Delegates also underscored the need for UNESCO Clubs to engage in relations with National  Commissions. In his detailed response, the representative of the Director-General provided a historical overview of the  general framework and of relations with WFUCA, including the decisions of UNESCO governing bodies and the  financial assistance provided. He noted that WFUCA would soon distribute its report on the World Congress of  WFUCA held in July. In response to several delegations, he clarified that the cost of the congress, which was paid both  from the UNESCO regular budget and from extrabudgetary funding, was $200,000 for 300 participants.
2.8 Mr President, I now turn to item 5.1 “Proposals by Member States for the celebration of anniversaries in
2006-2007 with which UNESCO could be associated”. Several representatives noted that National Commissions have  an important role to play in these celebrations. Delegates requested that short biographies, specific dates of the  celebration and the year in which the celebration is to take place should be mentioned in future documents of the  General Conference.
2.9 Item 6.4 “Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional activities” saw  Member States welcoming Brunei Darussalam’s recent accession to UNESCO, and took note of its wish to belong to  the Asia and the Pacific group. The Commission recommended that the General Conference admit Brunei Darussalam  to the Asia and the Pacific region with a view to its participation in the regional activities of the Organization.
2.10 Mr President, we then moved to debate 4, which dealt with item 9.2 “Report by the Director-General  concerning the protection of the name and logo of UNESCO in the Member States”. This was also a long debate, held  during the fourth and fifth meetings of the Commission. The representatives of 25 Member States took the floor on this  item. Members recognized the difficult challenge faced in finding a true balance between real visibility and adequate  assurances of protection of the name and logo of the Organization. It was noted that further consultation should be  undertaken to complete these directives specifying the rights, duties and responsibilities of each Member State and its  National Commission. It was requested that a focal point within the Secretariat be established to assist Member States  so as to ensure efficient follow-up to their request for authorization to use the name and/or logo. In fact, I would like to  say that almost every Member State participating in the debate made this request. After several amendments, and taking  into account the comments of the Legal Committee, it was decided that these draft directives should be approved at the
174th session of the Executive Board, and implemented on an experimental basis for use in Member States between  then and the 34th session of the General Conference, when formal adoption could be undertaken.
2.11 In debate 5, Mr President, the Commission examined item 6.6 “Use of languages in UNESCO”, at the  Commission’s fifth meeting. A total of 17 members spoke during this debate. This was an emotive debate, Mr President.
478  Reference was made to Item 1110 of the UNESCO Administrative Manual of 8 March 1984, which states that the  working languages for meetings in categories I and II to which all Member States are invited as chief participants are  Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. The importance for experts to be able to communicate in their  own language was underlined. The decision adopted fully reflects this perspective.
2.12 Debate 6 was held at the fifth and sixth meetings of the Commission. This debate dealt with item 6.2  “Implementation of 32 C/Resolution 79: grouping of Member States for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board  – recommendations of the Executive Board”. Members of the Asia and the Pacific region proposed a draft resolution to  the effect that Brunei Darussalam should join Group IV. Member States noted that the General Conference should  remain seized of the question of an equitable distribution of seats on the Executive Board.
2.13 The Commission then undertook its deliberations on debate 7 concerning item 5.21 “Reflection on the future  of UNESCO” held during its sixth and seventh meetings. A total of 38 Member States took the floor during the debate  on this item. The representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ambassador Jalali, introduced the draft resolution. In  view of the divergent opinions, an informal drafting group was established, chaired by Ambassador Jalali. The  resolution, which was finally adopted by consensus, requests the Director-General, in consultation with the President of  the General Conference and the Chair of the Executive Board, to lead a global consultation on the long-term future role  of UNESCO. The Director General has been requested to present a brief report on the implementation of this resolution  to the next session of the General Conference.
2.14 Debate 8 dealt with both item 6.1 “Report by the ad hoc working group on relations between the three organs  of UNESCO” and item 6.5 “Size of the Executive Board”, and was examined at the seventh and eleventh meetings of  the Commission. Representatives of 59 Member States took the floor. This was a long debate, but a more or less  businesslike one, Mr President. Many Member States welcomed the general thrust of the document. However, there  were major areas of disagreement on several of the recommendations. Accordingly, an informal working group was  established under my chairmanship composed of two Member States from each regional group, namely Canada,  Sweden, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Colombia, Saint Lucia, China, Japan, South Africa, Nigeria, Lebanon and United  Arab Emirates. The working group was open-ended, and discussions were held in all the languages of the Organization.  The working group held three meetings, and was able to reach agreement on almost all the recommendations, with  some amendments. However, with regard to two recommendations relating to the size of the Executive Board and to the  rotation of membership of the Executive Board, the group could not reach consensus, and therefore decided to put it to  Commission I to decide. In this context, I would like to express my gratitude to all members of the working group, who  worked very hard to achieve this consensus. In particular, I should like to thank the representatives of Australia and  Sweden for their help and assistance throughout this process. The Commission then recommended that the General  Conference adopt the recommendations of the ad hoc working group on relations between the three organs of UNESCO  as contained in document 33 C/17 and as amended first by the drafting group, and then orally in the Commission by  several delegations. The Commission was guided in this by the suggested draft resolution submitted by the Chair of the  ad-hoc working group and contained in document 33 C/17 Add.
2.15 The Commission then examined document 33 C/COM.I/DR.3. The representative of Sweden was invited to  introduce the text as amended in the light of the discussions in the Commission. He recalled that originally this draft  resolution had contained two elements, on the size of the Executive Board and rotation of its Members. As the  recommendation regarding the size of the Executive Board had not attracted much support, the co-sponsors decided to  withdraw this part of the draft resolution. The focus of the revised draft resolution was on the elaboration of a system of  genuine rotation of membership of the Executive Board in cooperation with the electoral groups. In the absence of  consensus, Mr President, this draft resolution as amended was put to a roll-call vote: 44 Member States voted in favour  and 17 against. There were 61 Member States present and voting, 14 abstentions and 108 Member States absent. Some  representatives, while accepting the consensus reached on some items, requested me to duly reflect their positions in my  oral report. My colleague from the United States of America noted that they did not fully agree on the points relating to  the major reform of the programme management cycle covering a four-year period. This refers to the original  recommendations now presented as R.1, R.3 and R.4. In reference to recommendation R.18, my colleague from  Australia requested that the Executive Board should continue deliberations on the structure and functioning of the  Programme and External Relations (PX) Commission and the Finance and Administrative (FA) Commission with a  view to instigating a structural reform. In particular, Australia was in favour of option B, consisting of maintaining the  PX Commission as it is and changing the FA Commission to an 18-member committee. Subsequently, at the 12th  meeting of the Commission to adopt the written report, Mr President, the representative of Nigeria, strongly supported  by several other delegations, proposed a reformulation of recommendation R.21. The reformulation reads as follows:  “Invites the President of the General Conference to consult the different regional groups regarding the possibility of  evolving a system of rotation of membership of the Executive Board in the future, taking into account the established  practices of the United Nations system on this matter, and to report to the 34th session of the General Conference the  results thereon.” Some other delegations strongly opposed the Nigerian proposal. The Commission then recommended  that this issue regarding recommendation R.21 should be taken up in plenary. The plenary would therefore need to look  at this issue today. The representative of Australia further requested that I underline in my oral report Australia’s
479  preoccupation that the debate regarding the rotation of membership of the Executive Board was held in the context of  the proposal for the reduction of the size of the Executive Board.
2.16 I am now pleased, Mr President, to continue with the rest of the Commission’s work. I move to debate 9,  which examined item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007” – Part II.A:  UNESCO Institute for Statistics. This debate was held at the Commission’s eighth meeting. Representatives of nine  Member States took the floor.
2.17 In regard to debate 10, the Commission first looked at item 4.2 “Consideration and adoption of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2006-2007” – Part II.C: Programme Related Services: Chapter 1: Coordination of action to  benefit Africa; Chapter 2: Fellowships Programme; Chapter 3: Public information; Chapter 4: Strategic planning and  programme monitoring; and Chapter 5: Budget preparation and monitoring. I turn first, Mr President, to Chapter 1:  Coordination of action to benefit Africa. This chapter was introduced by the Assistant Director-General for Africa, who  indicated that the adoption of the draft budget of the Africa Department for 2006-2007 would allow further  reinforcement of the relations with Member States as well as the coordination and promotion of intersectoral activities,  while making it possible to pay particular attention to initiatives relating to teacher training and the fight against  illiteracy and HIV/AIDS. All representatives expressed appreciation for UNESCO’s actions and their coordination by  the Africa Department with a view to the achievement of NEPAD and Millennium Development Goals. Chapter 2,  Mr President, relating to the Fellowships Programme, was introduced by Mr Ahmed Sayyad, Assistant Director-General  for External Relations and Cooperation, who emphasized that it was important to consolidate multilateral intellectual  cooperation and to open new avenues to developing countries, especially the least developed countries, and to countries  in transition needing more access to knowledge and research. During the debate, several Member States emphasized the  important role of fellowships for human resources development and capacity-building, and commended both the quality  of work carried out and the excellent management of the fellowships by the Secretariat. As regards Chapter 3 “Public  information”, the Director of the Bureau of Public Information noted that the Organization was now equipped with  professional tools to meet the information needs of Member States at the international level. It was noted, however, that  better coordination with National Commissions and other networks was desirable to increase the visibility of the  Organization at the national level. Regarding Chapter 4 “Strategic planning and programme monitoring”, several  delegates expressed their satisfaction with the efforts undertaken and the progress achieved in the preparation of the  Medium-Term Strategy, the biennial programme and budget and the monitoring of their implementation.
2.18 Mr President, at its eleventh meeting, the Commission returned to debate 10 to examine items 14.1  “Strengthening of cooperation with the Republic of the Sudan”, 14.2 “Strengthening of cooperation with Somalia” and
14.3 “Strengthening of cooperation with Guinea-Bissau”. In total, the representatives of 43 Member States spoke during  this debate. Many members expressed their support for the draft resolutions on items 14.2 and 14.3, which were adopted  by consensus by the Commission, as orally amended. On cooperation with Sudan, parallel consultations were conducted  to facilitate a consensus. Happily, the revised draft was adopted by consensus.
2.19 Mr President, I now move to debate 11 – the last debate of the Commission – which was held at its 11th  meeting. This debate considered item 6.3 “Principles and guidelines regarding the establishment and operation of  UNESCO institutes and centres (category 1) and institutes and centres under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2)”  and item 5.29 “Proposal for the establishment of the Artek International Youth and Children’s Centre under the  auspices of UNESCO”. The representative of the Director-General, Mr Hans d’Orville, Director of the Bureau of  Strategic Planning, introduced these two items. The representatives of 20 Member States took the floor. The  representative of Ukraine expressed the willingness of her government to seriously consider several comments made by  the Secretariat on Artek, particularly regarding the need to fully align the activities of the Centre with UNESCO’s  strategy and programme priorities. There was general agreement on the need for the institutes and centres of each  category to align their activities with the programme priorities of UNESCO. Mr President, several delegations  expressed concern about a potential proliferation of category 2 centres that might lead to a dispersion of focus, a  possible duplication of efforts and a financial impact on UNESCO. The feasibility study to be submitted for each  category 2 centre that needs to be submitted by the Director-General to the Executive Board should therefore include all  relevant data. Some delegations sought clarification with regard to the model agreement. The resolution was adopted, as  orally amended. Annex II of document 33 C/19, which contains this model agreement, was amended by Lebanon and  Norway and further amended to take into account the observations of the Legal Committee as contained in document
2.20 Mr President, I hope I have not taken up too much of the time of the General Conference. I did try to modify  the report to make it short and succinct, but the agenda of Commission I was heavy and obliged me to give a detailed  report. The debate and discussions of Commission I were important for the future policy and direction of this  Organization. I take this opportunity to commend you, Mr President, on your conduct of the General Conference. I also  wish to thank all my colleagues from the Secretariat and in particular my secretary, Ms Myriam Karela, and her devoted  team. I would like to thank the Legal Adviser, Dr Yusuf, Mr Hans d’Orville, Ms Rivière, and all other colleagues who  made available their time to come and give support throughout this process. I would like to also thank the other support  staff and in particular the interpreters. I thank you for your attention.  (Applause)   :א ٣ א א א ، אא א ، א א א א ، .אא،.א א א א א. א א אאא א א א א א א א.א ،א א ، א א ، א א א א ، ، ،א א  .א
(3) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Your Excellency, everybody knows that the work of Commission I includes some extremely important topics,  and most often involves issues of a political nature. Discussion and debate can therefore be vigorous at times, but should  always have the openness and tolerance that mark all of those who are present. I would like however to add that your  diplomatic experience, your determination and your thorough knowledge of the Organization’s work have all helped to  bring your Commission’s work to a close to a high standard of excellence and wisdom. I would like to draw on your good  judgment to adopt your Commission’s report this afternoon. I should like to congratulate you for your excellent work,  and to congratulate your fellow workers, the Bureau of the Commission, and all of the members of the Secretariat who  helped to make that work a success. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to give you the floor. You have listened to  the report and to the resolutions that it contains. It is all set out in the documents in front of you. I now give the floor to  the first person to have asked for it, His Excellency the Ambassador of the Russian Federation.
(4) Mr Kalamanov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr President. I would first of all like to express my gratitude for the work carried out by the  distinguished Ambassador of India who, with a hard course to chart, has successfully brought the boat to harbour safe and  sound. I would just like to make one remark. We always deal with draft resolutions submitted by countries with great  respect, and so we treated draft resolution 33 C/COM.I/DR.3, submitted by Australia, Denmark, Iceland, Canada,  Norway, Finland and Sweden, with all the respect due to it. At the same time, as a member of the working group, I  should like to point out that, in our opinion, the proposal for the further study of the issue of rotation was formulated in a  clearer and less severe way in the option proposed by Nigeria. I would remind you that the documents were prepared in a  very complex and yet respectful manner, in an atmosphere of compromise, and the interests of the many sides were taken  into account. As it turned out, during the discussion a range of points were dealt with and a certain one-sidedness  emerged in a series of resolutions. We therefore consider the Nigerian proposal to be more attractive and I would like to  propose to the General Conference that it adopt it as a basis and then to seek a general consensus. Thank you very much.   :א ٥,١  .א
(5.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much.  (The President continues in English)
5.2 India, you have the floor.
6. Mr Gaur (India):  Thank you, Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the plenary to draft resolution
33 C/PLEN/DR.2, submitted by Brazil, China, France, India, Japan, Nigeria and the Russian Federation, the wording of  which is essentially the same as that presented by the Chairperson of Commission I, as appears in paragraph 58 on  page 29 of the report. Now, my delegation fully supports this text, but we have had wide-ranging consultations with  several other Member States which have expressed their concerns to us; in the light of those consultations and to take  on board the reservations and concerns that have been communicated to us by these Member States, I would like to read  out a small amendment to the text which I think would command a greater consensus. With your permission, I shall  read out, at dictation speed, the small changes in the text: “Invites the President of the General Conference to consult the  different regional groups regarding the method of evolving a system of rotation of membership of the Executive Board,  taking into account the established practices of the United Nations system on this matter, and to report to the
34th session of the General Conference results thereon.” In effect, we are just introducing a new word, namely  “method”, instead of “possibility” and deleting “in the future” in the first line. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٧ א.א  א.א  .א
(7) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, India. Your suggestion has been heard. I now give the floor to France.
8.1 M. Gueguinou (France) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Avant tout, je m’associe aux remerciements chaleureux adressés à  Mme Bhaswati Mukherjee pour tout le temps et le grand talent qu’elle a mis au service de la Commission I. Le
17 octobre, jour où le débat 8 était à l’ordre du jour de nos discussions en Commission I, les esprits étaient ailleurs pour  les raisons que vous savez. De manière donc un peu subreptice, une recommandation, ou plutôt, pour reprendre le terme  employé, « une invitation » a été faite au Président de la Conférence générale d’élaborer en coopération avec les  groupes électoraux un système assurant un véritable roulement des membres du Conseil exécutif. Je ferai ici une petite  remarque sémantique : en français, le mot « roulement » ne convient pas ; on dit plutôt « rotation ». Nous savons tous  que cette décision porte sur un sujet extrêmement sensible et qu’une solution ne sera trouvée que si nous parvenons à un  consensus. J’en veux pour preuve les propos tenus par les intervenants précédents, que corroboreront  probablement  ceux des orateurs qui me suivront. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, si cette « invitation » était  maintenue en l’état, votre situation serait délicate car votre mission serait par avance condamnée à l’échec. Vous  risqueriez en effet de vous trouver rapidement dans une impasse étant donné que les groupes géographiques ne sont pas  actuellement en mesure de dialoguer avec vous, faute d’avoir pu atteindre un consensus en leur sein. Mieux vaudrait  donc être moins exigeant, plus réaliste, et s’en tenir à une invitation, moins ambitieuse sans doute, telle que celle  formulée par la représentante du Nigéria dans le nouveau libellé qu’elle a suggéré pour la recommandation 21. Ce  libellé pourrait être éventuellement amendé comme la délégation de l’Inde vient de le proposer.
8.2 Adopter la recommandation 21 sous la forme actuelle vous mettrait, je le répète, en position d’échec. Je crois  que cela n’est souhaitable ni pour vous, ni pour l’UNESCO, ni pour la crédibilité d’un de ses trois organes essentiels. Je  ne suis pas en train de préconiser le statu quo en matière de rotation au sein du Conseil mais, pour aboutir vraiment à  une mesure concrète, il faut envisager un processus plus souple que celui défini par le texte actuel de la  recommandation 21. Je vous remercie.    :א ٩ א.א   .א
(9) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. Brazil.
10. Mr Dayrell De Lima (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me pay due homage to the energetic leadership of Ms Bhaswati  Mukherjee. The question that is before us really divides the house, and I would certainly agree with several aspects that  the French Ambassador just highlighted. Yesterday I was here and one of the delegations proposed that we adopt a  more prudent and quiet approach to a very important question in the realm of Commission III. There were two votes –  one in the Executive Board and another in the Commission – where the idea of an international code of ethics was put  forward, and some prudence was called for by the Director-General and by some delegations. We agreed to that,  because we think that having the most unanimous consensus – the most unanimous consent – to any proposition is the  best way to proceed; if there are only one or two, or three or four – or even six, I hear – dissensions, this does not
482  invalidate the consensus. But when the house is obviously divided, we should be prudent. Why is the question divisive?  Because what is written in recommendation R.21 contained in paragraph 59.6 of document 33 C/81 is not clear. What is  “genuine rotation”? Is it dervish rotation? I hope the Turkish delegation will allow me to say that. Is it gyroscopic  rotation? Is it tidal rotation? Is it lunar rotation? It could mean anything. But the problem is not that. There are two  things that are important. The practice of the United Nations system, and the true test – the democratic test – of voting.  Voting is the best way to express confidence for the present Executive Board. Mr Chairman, my delegation fully  supports the amendment proposed by Nigeria, and we are open to additions which improve the text. I hope we can at  this stage reach a consensus solution instead of having a divisive approach to this matter. Thank you.   :א ١١,١ א.א   .א
(11.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. The United Kingdom.  (The President continues in English)
11.2 United Kingdom, you have the floor, please.
12. Mr Craddock (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to pay tribute to the Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson of Commission I for the interesting way in which business was conducted. I am also addressing the  Nigerian draft resolution in this debate. We would be the last country to say that we do not need to pay attention to the  way things happen in New York. Full coordination with the rest of the United Nations is essential. But there is no  reason why UNESCO needs to follow practice in New York on the issue of rotation. If we did that, there would be five  permanent Members here. UNESCO is already different. There are many examples in the rest of the United Nations  system of systems of rotation that work well. What should motivate us in this – our primary objective – should be the  good governance of UNESCO and as much fairness as possible for all countries, including the very smallest. Perhaps  some States do have more of a right than others to sit on the Board. I do not know really, however, if that is the case.  And if they do sit on the Board permanently or almost permanently, they certainly need to show that they deserve to be  on the Board through commitment and dedication to improving the work of UNESCO and the results it obtains. In  electoral Group I we are already working on a possible system of rotation. We will continue to do so. The United  Kingdom and Germany have tried to show a good example this year. It is also important to realize that coming off the  Board should not mean a loss of influence. There are many ways of continuing to contribute. In the case of Germany  and the United Kingdom, we share objectives and values, and we will continue to coordinate together. In conclusion,  therefore, Mr President, we believe that we need a firm plan of action, and I urge Member States collectively to  consider quickly how we might move forward on this issue of rotation. The draft resolution in the document that was  before Commission I provides a much better basis to do this, to get rapid action, than the amended version proposed by  Nigeria. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (Applause)   :א ١٣,١ א،א.٢٣א אא א،.א אא א א ،.
(13.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  The screen shows 23 requests for the floor. We have just heard five, so I should like you to register your  request for the floor now, because we shall not be able to reach the end. After that, if the climate of opinion allows for a  vote then we shall vote, except if you believe that the proceedings have reached their conclusion.  (The President continues in English)
13.2 Do any Member States wish to take the floor. I see 43. Forty-three. I hope we will finish at 4.30 p.m.  Anyway, we will ask the Secretariat to prepare a dinner for us this evening!  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ١٣,٣  .א
(13.3) (translation from the Arabic): Afghanistan now has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
13.4 I give the floor to Afghanistan.
14. Mr Aziz (Afghanistan):  Dear President, Good afternoon. I would also like to say that the Asia and the Pacific region is proud to have  a lady, an intelligent ambassador, who is able to chair a commission whose work has been extremely difficult. We  therefore thank her for her work. Mr President, I wish to raise only one issue, namely recommendation R.21, which  calls on you as the President of the General Conference to cooperate with the electoral groups on the issue of rotation.  We firmly believe in the rotation process for election to the Executive Board provided that it is based on UNESCO’s  understanding and not on any other United Nations system. While all of the colleagues representing countries  sponsoring 33 C/PLEN/DR.2 are my friends, I must tell them that I cannot agree with this draft, for the simple reason  that it is very vague and that it does not say what it should say, especially in the second part, which talks about taking  into account the established practices of the United Nations system. It is not clear, it is vague and it is uninformative.  We should be led by yourself on this issue. I therefore cannot support this draft in its present form. On the other hand, I  agree with and approve the proposal put forward under recommendation R.21 asking you, Mr President, to work with  the electoral groups on a genuine system of rotation for election to the Executive Board. Thank you very much.
15. The President:  Thank you. Japan.
16. Mr Sato (Japan):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to add my voice to respect the remarkable work  achieved here. The question of rotation is, politically sensitive and potentially divisive issue. How we go about it  requires the utmost care and political judgement, so that the broadest possible consensus can be achieved. We do not  propose to reopen the whole debate, but the way in which this item was discussed on Monday, resulting in a vote with  over 100 Members absent, gives cause for concern. We support the formulation proposed by Nigeria, with the proposed  amendment of India, which we believe were both carefully drafted, taking into account the different positions  expressed. This should lead to a more harmonious solution, based on consensus and solidarity among all Members.  Thank you, Mr President.   :א ١٧,١ א.א  .א
(17.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Indonesia now has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
17.2 Indonesia, you have the floor.
18. Mr Rachman (Indonesia):  Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rahmatu llāhi wa-barakātuh. We would like to thank also the  Chairperson for this remarkable work. This draft resolution concerns a very sensitive issue; that is why consultation and  taking into account relevant practices should be looked at. It is very important for us to be able to preserve and improve  the spirit of participation, and the opportunity to participate, so that the quality of UNESCO’s good governance may be  improved. We can also have better shared values among Member States. We would like to support the proposal by  Nigeria, as amended by India. We hope that we will reach a consensus. Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum.   :א ١٩,١  .א.א
(19.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Mexico.  (The President continues in English)
(20) Mr Latapí (Mexico) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. I wish first to express my deep gratitude to the distinguished Ambassador,  Ms Mukherjee, on the remarkable work she has achieved as Chairperson of Commission I, and for the presentation of her  oral report, which accurately reflects the progress of the work accomplished. My statement refers to item 6.5 under  consideration, in relation to the number of Members of the Executive Board. Mexico is a country that promotes  democratic processes in the United Nations system, thereby fostering democratization, both concerning the composition  of bodies with limited participation and regarding decision-making. With respect to the draft resolution before us, Mexico  encourages rotation and, in particular, that of countries which promote the objectives and functions of the Organization.  We therefore endorse recommendation R.21 as it stands. My delegation would even welcome the idea of reducing the  duration of the term of the Executive Board from four to two years, for the sake of greater participation. Mexico does not  support permanent membership of any international body. It is necessary to have clear and precise criteria in order to  develop a system of rotation and we therefore kindly request, Mr President, that each electoral group present you with a  series of criteria for the development of such a rotation system. This subject is a priority for my country in view of its  importance for the effective functioning of the Organization and we maintain that all countries should participate in this  consultation. Thank you very much.   :א ٢١  .א.א
(21) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Argentina.
(22) Mr Sobrón (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I should like to associate myself with my colleagues, and  commend the task successfully performed by the Ambassador of the Republic of India, as Chairperson of Commission I,  through her professional approach and the accurate and reliable report with which she provided us. Secondly,  Mr President, I wish to say that when Commission I turned to draft resolution 21 in plenary, the delegation of the  Argentine Republic voted in favour of the draft resolution and still maintains its vote. Thirdly, Mr President, to prevent  this meeting from continuing over dinner, as you pointed out, and to conclude this debate as soon as possible, our  delegation is open to consensus. However, I have a question for the Secretariat. Is the Nigerian proposal made yesterday  evening presented? There was perhaps a combination of circumstances beyond our control, but the proposal is presented  as having been received by the Secretariat on 18 October. And it was on 18 October, at 6.30 p.m., that the theme of  cultural diversity, draft resolution 21, was submitted and then addressed. So a problem maybe occurred in the sequence of  events which I have not grasped. Nevertheless, Mr President, may I recall that the intention of the delegation of the  Argentine Republic, as has always been the case since 1948, is to work for the benefit of our Organization and contribute  to its objectives, and we are willing to seek consensus. I reiterate that we are in favour of resolution 21. Thank you very  much, Mr President.   :א ٢٣,١ א.א  א א א٢٠/١٠/٢٠٠٥.א ، א א ،٢(DR.2).א.
(23.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. The draft resolution was distributed this morning with today’s date, 20/10/2006, and entitled
33 C/DR.2. South Africa.
485  (The President continues in English)
23.2 South Africa, please.
24. Mr Figaji (South Africa):  Thank you, Mr President. We would like to support the United Kingdom, Mexico and others on the principle  of rotation. We are concerned that if this principle is not followed, then smaller States with fewer resources could  become marginalized by UNESCO. They could become alienated from the Organization, whose major objectives are  really to promote the Millennium Development Goals and development in the fields of education, science and culture,  and they could lose interest in promoting the effectiveness of an Organization which they should really regard as their  own. If this is a principle – the issue of rotation – then our real discussion should be about how we are going to  implement the principle. We support, therefore, recommendation R.21 as it stands in the original text. However, if we  do want the meeting to consider the amendment proposed by India, then we would suggest introducing a small change  to the first indent by saying: “to consult the different regional groups regarding the method of implementing a system of  rotation …”, and removing the second indent from the resolution completely. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٢٥,١ א.א א  .א
(25.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. The United States of America.  (The President continues in English)
25.2 United States of America.
26. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. My delegation has a keen interest in all of these recommendations that came from  the ad hoc working group, and one of the principles that we tried to follow in that group, of which I was privileged to be  a member, was that we were trying to put forward recommendations that would not require amendments to the  UNESCO Constitution. Clearly, if we carry forward with a system of rotation, we are going to get to a situation at some  point where we are in fact required to amend the UNESCO Constitution. It therefore seems to me that it would be more  straightforward to start talking about that than what we are doing here. The language is being put before us in these  various formulations, and it is language that is filled with implications. It is not straightforward language: it is language  that implies things, but does not state them clearly. I was quite pleased, and I wanted to thank the countries that  sponsored draft resolution 33 C/PLEN/DR.2, because my delegation could have supported – or could still support – that  draft resolution in its original form. For us, however, the amendments suggested by both India and more recently South  Africa, have really turned this particular resolution into something that says nothing different from the current wording  of recommendation R.21, but simply replaces the word “system” by “method”. For my delegation, that is pretty much  just about the same thing. So we would urge the adoption of draft resolution 33 C/PLEN/DR.2 in its original form.  Thank you.   :א ٢٧ א.א  ، א  .א
(28) Mr Elsanosi (Sudan) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. I shall try to be brief. Sudan would like to stress that it is strongly in favour of the  rotation system. A chance must be given to every State, in an equal way, to participate in and contribute to the work of  the Executive Board, and in building new ideas in UNESCO. We should like this Organization to take the initiative as it  usually does, and to lead reforms. There is of course much talk today about reforms in the United Nations. We think that  UNESCO should act first, instead of adopting a one-size-fits-all model. We think that UNESCO needs to be amended  and developed. For that reason, I should like to point to the amendment proposal put forward by India; we could agree to  part of it, if the reference to the United Nations Organization were removed. From another point of view, Sudan fully  supports what the United Kingdom delegate mentioned, and sees no reason to amend paragraph 21 of the draft resolution,  whose original text we fully support. We should like it to be adopted as it is, without any amendment. This is because  some of the amendments bring us very far from the original aim for which this paragraph was drawn up. Moreover, this  amendment that came out yesterday makes the subject hazier, as they say, and not better defined. When should proposals  be presented? The original text states that proposals should be presented at the forthcoming 34th session. To summarize, I  say that we fully support keeping the Draft Resolution in paragraph 21 as it is, without amendments. I believe that that is  the view of several of the African States at least. Thank you.     :א ٢٩,١  .א.א
(29.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. China.  (The President continues in English)
(30) Mr Zhang Xuezhong (China) (translation from the Chinese):  Thank you, Mr President. The Chinese delegation appreciates very much the excellent work accomplished by  Commission I under the leadership of its Chairperson, the Ambassador of India. China understands and sincerely wishes  that developing countries would have more possibilities to be involved in the work of UNESCO’s governing bodies. It is  also our wish that consensus could be ultimately reached through extensive consultation on this important issue. We  therefore support the amendment proposed by Nigeria and its supporting countries as well as the revision proposed by the  Indian delegation on the original draft resolution. We are also in favour of the amendment proposed a moment ago by the  delegation of South Africa. It is our belief that we will eventually work out a solution which could be accepted by all of  us. This is the good wish of the Chinese delegation. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٣١,١ א   .א
(31.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Germany now has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
31.2 Germany, you have the floor.
32. Mr Bernecker (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. Let us first of all very warmly congratulate the Chairperson of Commission I, the  Ambassador of India, for the excellent leadership she provided throughout the very intense deliberations in our  commission. We would like to fully support the statement made by the Ambassador of the United Kingdom. As you  know, Germany was not a candidate for election to the Executive Board at this session of the General Conference on the  basis of an agreement with the United Kingdom. We are therefore in a privileged position to express our support for the  principle that all Member States of UNESCO should have the possibility to be fully involved in UNESCO’s work.  Mr President, it has been pointed out that rotation is a complex matter. We welcome the fact that it is being addressed,  and we are convinced that our reflection will lead to an even greater inclusiveness, and a broader representation in our  Organization. We are always in favour of finding a good compromise, and we would prefer to have a compromise  wording for this resolution so that our serious consideration of this issue could be taken up in a spirit of cooperation and  without delay. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(33) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen, in about 10 minutes it will be 4.30 p.m. We have 39 requests to speak. We have now  reached number 17. I have consulted with the Chairperson of Commission I, who has asked for the session to be  suspended for consultations, after which we can return and take a decision. Given that we have agreed to continue  working until 4.30 p.m., I should prefer for us to suspend the session at 4.30 p.m., both to consult and to conclude the  work of the joint commissions. We shall then return to the discussion. If the States that have asked for the floor insist on  speaking, I shall give them the floor. Otherwise, I prefer for us to take a decision either by vote or by general consensus.  We shall then move on to the report of Commission IV. That is, if you find that the arrangement suits you, I shall proceed  in that way, and I hope you will not be taken by surprise. I now give the floor to Namibia.
34. Mr Emvula (Namibia):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, my delegation, like others that spoke before us, salutes the  Chairperson and the members of her commission for the report. We – and I include sentiments and ideas raised earlier  in the group that I chair, Group V(a) – would like to indicate that since we are in support of the democratic system of  rotation, we go along with the draft resolution before us, and I am referring to draft resolution 33 C/PLEN/DR.2 as now  amended by India. My personal wish is that it may be accompanied by enforcement measures, if it is to make a  difference as regards the current principles that some of us are fighting to maintain within the different subregional  groupings. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٣٥,١ אא א א ،.، א א א א ، ، ، ،.א א ، א א א ، א א א א א  .א
(35.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I am sorry to have to interrupt the speaker to give the floor to someone who requested it on a  point of order. Before giving the floor to Argentina, I should now like to remind you that as you can see and hear, there is  a group in favour of the resolution and another group opposed to it. I should like us not to repeat the same points again  and again, and I should like us to be frank and to state that we support this or that resolution. There is no point in  elaborating on points that I think have been heard. This is to ensure that we can come to the end of our long list of  speakers.  (The President continues in English)
35.2 Point of order: Argentina, please.
(36) Mr Sobrón (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):  Mr President, echoing your comments, I would suggest that you call for approval of the report of Commission I;  we should defer consensus-building on this particular item until later, although this subject, at least, has been already  approved in the context of the report – approved as a whole – and thus we may attend the joint meeting at which the  budget for the Organization must be proposed, at this General Conference. Mr President, I suggest that you should be  consulted, in your capacity as President of the General Conference, regarding the consensus on this subject, in order to  provide us with a much clearer view in plenary. Thank you very much, Mr President.
(37) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. A point of order can often be frightening for a president, but this one is very helpful to  me. I think that what the representative of Argentina kindly suggested is appropriate, unless any State has an objection or  a comment relating to the Report. Barring that point, I think that Argentina’s suggestion is a judicious one. The United  States.
38. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I could go along with the suggestion by Argentina provided that what  we are excluding is the entire resolution contained in paragraph 59 of the report, since the point under discussion is a  part of this larger resolution. Thank you.   :א ٣٩,١ א.א  א .א א א א א אא אא א א  .א
(39.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  That is what we shall do. We shall exclude that paragraph from the report and, after consultation, return and  finish discussing it. So if there are no comments on the report of Commission I, including all of the resolutions it contains  except for the paragraph that we shall discuss and the draft resolution.  (The President continues in English)
39.2 I see a point of order. Uzbekistan, you have the floor.
40. Mr Ikramov (Uzbekistan):  Thank you very much, Mr President. We would just like to add to the comment of our colleague from  Argentina. When we return to paragraph 59, it may be wise to announce which amendments we are going to adopt,  because it sounds like most of the delegations discussing recommendation R.21 are proposing different amendments  referring to different documents. It is difficult to keep track of which amendments, which items, which points of view,  and which text we are going to adopt. So if you come back to paragraph 59 after the break, we suggest that the  Secretariat distribute or maybe place in front of us two or three options for us to discuss.   :א ٤١ א،  א א אא א א ،א א،א ،.א א א א ،א.אאאא א א א א.א א א  ..א
(41) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Kind friend, the procedure that we have followed since beginning to discuss the commission reports has been  to take the commission report with all of the resolutions therein. When there is no request on the part of any State to  discuss one or other item, we adopt the resolution. However, we have here a matter where there is a difference of opinion.  If your delegation feels that there is another point that needs to be discussed, then please make it known. But we cannot  come back over every resolution. Let us therefore follow the same procedure that we have followed for the other  commissions. Slovenia.
42. Ms Klemen-Krek (Slovenia):  Thank you, Mr President. Please excuse my taking the floor, but yesterday I did not notice that, for item 14.3  “Strengthening of cooperation with the Republic of Guinea-Bissau”, Slovenia is mentioned as one of the sponsors of the  draft resolution. Without wishing to suggest that we do not support the resolution and whatever it proposes in favour of  improving the situation in Guinea-Bissau through UNESCO activities, I must say that we did not sponsor it. This is an  administrative error. Thank you.   :א ٤٣ אא  א ،.א  .؟אא
(43) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Madam, in this case we shall record what you have kindly said about the matter in the records. Uzbekistan, do  you have any comments on the report or on a particular draft resolution? Please go ahead.
44. Mr Ikramov (Uzbekistan):  Mr President, we are in support of this amendment proposed by Argentina, which has also received some  support. We would just like to suggest that when we come back to paragraph 59, it would be wise for us to have the  amendments in front of us. We need to see the texts we are discussing, since different delegations are proposing  different amendments. The situation has become a mess, and it is difficult to know which document or which sentences  we are going to adopt, because of the different amendments. It has become a bit too complicated to understand the  picture.   :א ٤٥,١
(45.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. We shall try to make the task easy because so far, we are still between two resolutions.  When we come to draft resolution 2, we shall give you all of the details regarding the amendments. Australia.  (The President continues in English)
45.2 Australia, please.
46. Ms Madden (Australia):  Mr President, I was just seeking clarification. Which paragraph are we excluding? My understanding of the  Argentinean suggestion as amended by the United States is that we are leaving out all of item 59, that is all of paragraph
59, with all the recommendations contained therein. Is that correct? And if so, we are happy to go along with that  suggestion. Thank you.
47. The President:  That is correct. Now I am happy. Brazil, you have the floor, Ambassador.
48. Mr Dayrell de Lima (Brazil):  When you say “item” you should say “paragraph”. Thank you.   :א ٤٩,١ אא  א א א א א א  ..٥٩א
(49.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  It now looks as if you all agree to adopt the report with all of the resolutions included therein, except for  paragraph 59. The report has therefore been adopted.  (The President continues in English)
49.2 I now give the floor to the Director-General on a point of order.
50. The Director-General:  Mr President, I am very sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to make a very brief statement concerning  paragraph 27, which contains the resolution proposed in document 33 C/5, in particular with regard to the Participation  Programme. I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 2 of section A, “Principles”, which says, “priority under  the Participation Programme will be given to proposals for the benefit of least developed countries (LDCs), developing  countries and countries in transition”. I am very happy that this paragraph has been created, but I would nevertheless  like to repeat the appeal, which I have been making in the last few years, that rich countries – especially members of the  Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD/DAC) –  refrain from making requests under the Participation Programme, particularly, in light of the reduced budget available  for this programme. On this occasion, I would like to repeat my plea to those rich countries to refrain from making  requests under the Participation Programme. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٥١ אא ، א א א א.א.، א  .א
(51) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr Director-General. Your comments will be recorded in the records. The session is suspended.  We shall come back at 5.15 p.m.  The meeting is suspended at 4.40 p.m. and resumes at 5.45 p.m.
(52) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Distinguished audience, ladies and gentlemen, I should  like this evening to quote in Arabic the words of George Washington: “Do not sleep when someone else is speaking; do  not sit when someone else is standing; do not speak when you should be silent.” That applies to our session this evening.  Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. It now seems that the fact that our Conference was interrupted for around an hour has  greatly helped us to arrive at a common opinion so that we can find a solution to this problematic issue by finding a  consensus. I have heard a comment from one of our colleagues saying that we are close to concluding this item. As soon  as we have done so, we shall move on directly to Commission IV, which we are waiting for. I should like to welcome the  large gathering that has come this evening to listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as to the rich discussion that is  taking place. I now give the floor to Namibia.
53. Mr Emvula (Namibia):  Thank you, Mr President. I would fully agree with you that the break – although others were still waiting  behind closed doors to finalize the report of Commission IV – has given us ample time to consult, and we have  consulted broadly, and our broad consultation has produced what we would regard as a consensus agreed to by most of  the members we were able to approach. We just hope that it will be an acceptable consensus so that we may then, as  you have suggested, move on to the report of Commission IV. Mr President, we are suggesting an amendment to draft  resolution 33 C/PLEN/DR.2 to read as follows: “The General Conference invites the President of the General  Conference to consult the different regional groups regarding a method or methods of rotation of membership of the  Executive Board and”, we delete the next line, “to report to the 34th session of the General Conference the results  thereon”. We feel that this suggestion would allow consultation to take place without having any other elements  disregarded or pre-empted, and would permit a free flow of ideas that would please everybody. I appeal to plenary that  we agree to adopt this as our final text on this resolution. Thank you, Mr President.  (Applause)   :א ٥٤ א אאאא.אא אא א אא.א א.א،א אא.אא א א א א.א א א א א ،٥٩א.א אאא א א א.א א؟א  .א..א
(54) The President (translation from the Arabic):  This applause means that we have reached an agreement. I should like to extend my warm thanks to all of you  for all of the energy you have put into reaching a consensus. You have placed this responsibility on the shoulders of the  President of the General Conference, and I hope it does not come to nothing. I shall try to be open, and should like all of  you to show tolerance so that we can arrive at a viewpoint that everyone can accept. Thank you very much. I think that  has brought us to the end of the resolutions and report of Commission I. I should like to repeat my thanks and my  compliments for the substantial and excellent work of Commission I. Given that we postponed paragraph 59, I now come  back to it and put it before you again so that you can agree to it by general consensus after the amendment to the draft  resolution has been made. Does anyone object to the paragraph being adopted? I do not see any objections. The  paragraph is therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
491  Report of Commission IV: resolutions and recommendations  Rapport de la Commission IV : Résolutions et recommandations  Informe de la Comisión IV: resoluciones y recomendaciones  Доклад Комиссии IV: резолюции и рекомендации  אא א:א א א א   第 IV 委员会的报告：决议和建议   :א ٥٥ ، א א ، א א א אא ، א א א .
(55) The President (translation from the Arabic):  We now move to the report of Commission IV. I therefore call on Mr Jaime Nualart, Chairperson of  Commission IV, to step forward and present his report.
(56.1) Mr Nualart (Mexico) (Chairperson of Commission IV) (translation from the Spanish):  Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, I am highly honoured, as the Chairperson of Commission IV (Culture), to present to you the main results  of the debates and recommendations put forward by the Commission at the 33rd session of the General Conference. First  of all, I wish to thank you for entrusting me with this important task. Given the time constraints, I shall not make an  exhaustive presentation. I shall nonetheless try to give an accurate account of the nature of our debates. I shall not be  mentioning the names of the Member States, observers and non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations that  participated in them, unless they have expressly asked me to do so. I wish to remind you that the recommendations of  Commission IV are to be found in draft report 33 C/84 Prov.
(56.2) In the context of the 33rd session of the General Conference, Commission IV met from 13 to 20 October
2005, with extended meetings, lasting not more than two hours, taking place on 14 and 17 October only. The election of  officers took place after the opening of the meetings of the Commission. The officers elected were as follows:  H.E. Mr Giuseppe Moscato, Ambassador of Italy; Mr Alisher Ikramov, from the Republic of Uzbekistan; Mr Itumeleng  Mosala, from South Africa; Mr Jiangang Li, from China; and Mr Alexandre Najjar, from Lebanon, who acted as  Rapporteur, all of whom I wish to thank for their support and collaboration. The Commission discussed the timetable of  work and then approved it without any modification, programming its work in seven debates that took place in the course  of nine meetings. Following each of these debates, the representative of the Director-General answered the questions put  to him by the Member States. Agreeing to the request by a Member State that time be set aside for facilitating dialogue  and the exchange of points of view concerning the preliminary draft of the convention on the protection of the diversity  of cultural contents and artistic expressions, I made it possible for all the delegations so wishing to discuss the subject and  other agenda items personally with me or with other delegations after each day’s work, before the Commission went on  to examine agenda item 8.3 of the General Conference.
(56.3) Before I begin my report on the substance of our debates, kindly allow me to make a few preliminary  observations. On the occasion of the celebration of the sixtieth anniversary of UNESCO, one cannot but recognize the  universal nature of our Organization. We were recently able to welcome Brunei Darussalam, which joined us as the 191st  Member State. This universal character of UNESCO enables us to address questions of worldwide scope such as cultural  diversity, the tangible and intangible heritage, the world heritage, standard-setting activities, intercultural dialogue, the  arts and creativity, and also the cultural industries, copyright and museums.  Given the wide range of activities of the  Culture Sector, our Commission had an extremely busy programme of work, with the analysis and debate of 17 themes in  four and a half days. The deliberations of Commission IV were marked by a cordial atmosphere throughout, in keeping  with the constructive spirit and mutual respect that have always characterized UNESCO’s Cultural Commission. The  extensive, high-level attendance at the meetings of the Commission made it clear that UNESCO’s cultural programme is  of ever greater importance and interest in the policy priorities of many Member States. The participants made active  contributions to the debates of the Commission, and there were a total of 518 statements by Member States, observers  and international governmental and non-governmental organizations.
(56.4) We had intense debates on various and very controversial themes, but this was yet further evidence of the  great importance that the Member States attach to constructive dialogue in debating the major themes of culture, and of  the great expectations people have in respect of the services that UNESCO may be able to provide in different parts of the  world. I wish to take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude to the officers and to the Rapporteur, Mr Najjar from  Lebanon, and the secretariat of our Commission for their professionalism, sense of responsibility, devotion to duty,  friendliness and the support that they gave the Chair at all times. I also wish to express my gratitude for the cooperation  that we received from the interpreters, translators, conference room staff and technicians, without whom we would not  have been able successfully to complete our work. The first time that most of the Member States took the floor, they  expressed their condolences and solidarity towards the countries that had just suffered the consequences of large-scale  natural disasters. Once again, our thoughts go to the victims of these devastating catastrophes, and we wish to reiterate  our solidarity with them.
(56.5) I also wish to take the opportunity of mentioning the expressions of appreciation during our debates to  Mr Mounir Bouchenaki, the Assistant Director-General for Culture, who is retiring at the beginning of next year after  serving this international organization for 23 years. We have heard many warm tributes to him, and there is obvious  appreciation and respect for him throughout the world, not only for his competence in the field of culture and his  considerable diplomacy, but also for his affability, professionalism and irrepressible enthusiasm. You must know, dear  Mr Bouchenaki, that we will all miss you but, as many delegations have said, we are not all going to be saying  “Goodbye” to you in all our different languages but rather “Thank you”, in the hope that our paths meet again.
(56.6) After these initial observations, kindly allow me to present the substance of my report. The first debate was  devoted to examining and approving the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007, under item 4.2. The debate was  opened by the Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning, who explained that the original proposal in document 33 C/5  with a baseline of US $635 million had been revised at the express request of the Executive Board. To this end, the  revised document with its addendum was presented to the General Conference, and it contained a draft Appropriation  Resolution for a sum of $610 million and a structured summary concerning the main lines of action. There is a  complementary set of programmes to back up achievement of the programme priorities, including document 33 C/5 Rev.,  in which $25 million of voluntary extrabudgetary funds are requested. The Director of the Bureau of Strategic Planning  also stressed that the Director-General had introduced a variety of proposals into the 33 C/5 documents including:
(1) concentrating resources on the principal priorities; (2) increasing the level of decentralization in all the major  programmes; and (3) making several improvements in the areas of financial information and formatting. The  representative of the Director-General then presented a substantial overview of the details of Major Programme IV,  Culture, insisting on the concentration of Major Programme IV on “promoting cultural diversity, with special emphasis  on the tangible and intangible heritage”. Forty-seven Member States took part in the debate. The participants in  Commission IV expressed great satisfaction with the general thrust of Major Programme IV, Culture, in the Draft  Programme and Budget for 2006-2007, in particular with UNESCO’s mandate and the added value of its action to  promote heritage throughout the world. In addition, many countries expressed their satisfaction with the document for  being results-based and having a well-defined format.
(56.7) The overwhelming majority of statements supported the principal priority of document 33 C/5 relating to the  promotion of cultural diversity. Although while recognizing the crucial role of culture in all societies many Member  States regretted the general budget cut that had been applied to Major Programme IV, it is to be noted that the fact that no  additional resources were allocated was mentioned several times and regretted by the delegates. The promotion and  protection of cultural diversity was the central theme that constituted the general framework of our debates. It was  recognized that cultural diversity is expressed through the tangible and intangible cultural heritage, linguistic diversity  and creativity, and that it could be supported through intercultural and interreligious dialogues and through the promotion  of public policies and incentives for cultural industries. Many Member States supported the preliminary draft convention  on the protection of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions, praising the UNESCO Secretariat for its  work and its contribution to the drawing up of the preliminary draft.
(56.8) Many delegations considered the World Heritage to be a flagship UNESCO programme. Concern was  expressed, however, at the fact that world heritage of outstanding universal value in the African continent and in the  Pacific and Caribbean regions would continue to be insufficiently represented on the World Heritage List. In that  connection, the Member States of those regions welcomed world heritage activities already initiated or being prepared  under specific regional programmes. Furthermore, emphasis was placed firmly on the need to increase the financial and  human resources of the World Heritage Centre. Most delegations gave unreserved support to UNESCO’s work in the  field of intangible cultural heritage, recognizing its value to the identity of communities and peoples worldwide and the  role it played in that regard. Some delegations announced their countries’ imminent ratification of the 2003 Convention  for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, which had already been warmly received in many other  countries. Many Member States expressed their great expectation that the Convention would enter into force at the  beginning of 2006 and informed the Commission of their experience gained in promoting intangible cultural heritage.  Furthermore, several countries paid special attention to the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity  and to the Living Human Treasures programme. Many countries stressed the importance of protecting the world cultural  heritage, which unfortunately continued to sustain damage as a consequence of armed conflicts and criminal activities. In  that connection, several delegations argued in favour of strengthening UNESCO’s budget and activities relating to  standard-setting instruments, specifically the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit  Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property, the 1954 Convention for the Protection of Cultural  Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, and the two Protocols thereto, and the 2001 Convention on the Protection of the  Underwater Cultural Heritage. In addition, some delegations expressed support for the electronic database being  compiled to collect national laws on the cultural heritage, for it was a clear contribution to capacity-building in the  Member States of UNESCO.
(56.9) A significant number of Member States expressed unreserved support for intercultural dialogue and  interreligious dialogue programmes, stressing the potential role of culture in building peace and promoting tolerance and  mutual respect. That aspect was stressed in particular in the context of experience in post-conflict situations. Some  delegations expressed their desire for a framework for national cultural policies to be devised, taking the concept of  intercultural dialogue into account. Several Member States spoke of the success of the Slave Route project but regretted  that its budget for the following biennium had been reduced, given the need for follow-up activities. Many speakers were  in favour of supporting cultural industries and crafts, stressing that cultural diversity could be fostered through the  promotion of living cultures and artistic creativity. Many countries also noted that the promotion of cultural industries  and artistic creativity was extremely important in ensuring sustainable development, poverty reduction and social  cohesion. In that connection, several Member States informed the Commission about operational activities that they had  carried out, in particular under the Global Alliance for Cultural Diversity. The importance of art education was stressed  and some delegations referred to conferences that were planned on the subject. Similarly, they stressed the importance of  the arts and of cultural industries as material supports of cultural diversity, deploring the inadequacy of resources for  strengthening activities in that respect. In that part of the debate, Member States identified several themes able to guide  UNESCO’s future activities in culture. Some countries stated that UNESCO should deal not only with heritage in the  traditional sense but also with contemporary cultural expressions. Emphasis was placed on the need to formulate an  appropriate strategy for cultural tourism, particularly since the consequences of globalization and rapid urban  development on cultural and natural heritage gave cause for concern in some States. Several delegations also stressed the
497  need to establish a link between cultural heritage conservation and sustainable development, which would contribute to  poverty reduction in developing countries. Several countries pointed to the importance of languages, while stressing that  linguistic diversity was a key element in protecting and promoting cultural diversity, and urged UNESCO to formulate a  specific intersectoral strategy on the theme of languages. It was also recalled that it was vital to raise our societies’  awareness, beginning with the youngest, to ensure that the value of the heritage was instilled from an early age and, in  that connection, reference was made to the world heritage and to art education.
(56.10) The Commission considered 19 draft resolutions submitted by Member States in relation to Major  Programme IV, Culture. The resolutions were examined in the light of the Director-General’s comments, the Executive  Board’s recommendations and the results of the debates. The delegation of the United States of America regretted,  however, that the Commission had been required to discuss and approve the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007  before considering the preliminary draft convention on the protection of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic  expressions under item 8.3. It therefore suggested that the corresponding resources be allocated to other operational  programmes relating to the principal priority.
(56.11)  The second debate afforded delegates the opportunity to express their opinions on the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy for 2008-2013. Member States welcomed the opportunity to begin work on drawing up the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy for 2008-2013. Several delegations stressed the need for a close link between document 34 C/4 and the biennial  C/5 documents, particularly in the light of the Outcome Document of the United Nations General Assembly’s World  Summit held in September 2005, at which poverty reduction was highlighted as the main objective of the United Nations  system. In that regard, a special appeal was made for reflection on whether UNESCO had managed to meet requests and  needs worldwide.
(56.12)  Several delegations took the opportunity to highlight the Organization’s role and capability to place culture  on the international political scene as a cross-cutting line of action in the formulation and conduct of public policies.  They also recognized that UNESCO had a well-deserved reputation for reaching broad agreements, even on complex  issues. It was also said on several occasions that the Organization’s work in the field of culture had brought UNESCO  credibility and acclaim, and many delegations were satisfied with the structure and scope of document 31 C/4. At the  same time, several Member States called for a more multidisciplinary approach and for a better budgeting, management  and monitoring method to be adopted. They also warned against trying to cover too many matters, several delegations  consequently proposing that activity be concentrated on specific, clearly defined strategic objectives. Several Member  States also called for further concision and clarity in the drawing up of document 34 C/4.
(56.13) In regard to the programme itself, it was clearly stated that cultural diversity should continue to be the central  theme of the Organization’s strategy, providing a general framework for operational activities between 2008 and 2013.  Most Member States said that the promotion of cultural diversity would have to be achieved through support for  programmes relating to the world heritage, the intangible heritage, standard-setting action, cultural tourism, languages,  cultural policies, museums, intercultural dialogue and cultural industries. In view of UNESCO’s multifaceted mandate in  education, science, culture and communication, many delegations called for stronger ties between the Organization’s  various fields. After statements by the representatives of 19 Members States, one observer and one non-governmental  organization (NGO), the Commission adopted in full the draft resolution on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy, thus  endorsing the preparatory principles and guidelines for document 34 C/4.
(56.14) The Director-General’s representative opened the debate by presenting the background of the document and  the sections containing recommendations made by the Executive Board on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-
2007. He then highlighted several matters, inviting the Member States to provide guidance and direction on them, namely  the scope of UNESCO’s future action, selection of strategic objectives and cross-cutting themes, and formulation of the  expected outcomes. Moreover, the Director-General’s representative stressed how important it was for UNESCO to  clearly define its role in the reform of the United Nations system, including the necessary national-level contributions.
(56.15) During the third debate, the Commission examined and approved the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-
2009 (34 C/5). The debate on this item, albeit brief, included the specific request to establish links between culture and  activities in other sectors, in order to guarantee a global approach. In other words, it was proposed that intersectoral  programmes be prepared regarding development, poverty reduction and the role of education and culture. Furthermore,  one delegation expressed the wish for a better balance between staff and programme costs in the future. Following  statements from seven Member States and one NGO representative, the Commission approved in extenso the draft  resolutions for the Programme and Budget for 2008-2009, and for subsequent implementation of the Programme of  Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States.
(56.16) We then moved on to the fourth debate, which examined items 5.15, 5.12 and 5.13 of the agenda. During  examination of item 5.15 on “Universal Forum of Cultures – 2007 in Monterrey, Mexico”, the Director-General’s  representative reiterated that this initiative followed up the “Universal Forum of Cultures – 2004 in Barcelona”. Many  delegations welcomed the opportunity that the Mexico Forum afforded for promoting dialogue between cultures and  civilizations and, moreover, provided UNESCO with a platform from which it could reach a wide audience. Following 16  statements unreservedly endorsing the initiative, the Commission approved the draft resolution instating the Organization  as main partner of the Universal Forum of Cultures, to be held from 19 September to 19 December 2007 in Monterrey,  Mexico.
(56.17) Regarding item 5.12, “Strategy to facilitate the restitution of stolen or illicitly exported cultural property”,  representatives of many Member States of all world regions referred to their own nations’ bitter and tragic experience of  losing cultural heritage through theft and illicit exports. They regretted their lack of resources and technical and scientific  capacities to resolve the problem. Some countries, however, informed the Commission that they had managed to recover
498  cultural property thanks to bilateral negotiations and voluntary donations or return of property. The principles underlying  the strategy for facilitating the restitution of stolen or illicitly exported cultural property received enormous support, and  UNESCO was asked to continue its endeavours in this respect. Many Member States endorsed amendment of the Statutes  of the Intergovernmental Committee  incorporating the mediation and conciliation duties. Throughout the debate, it was  stipulated that the valid Rules of Procedure would be those drawn up on the occasion by the Intergovernmental  Committee and that necessary funding for mediation would come from extrabudgetary resources. Still on this item,  several Member States likewise emphasized the importance of ratifying the 1970 Convention, the 1995 UNIDROIT  Convention and both Protocols of the 1954 Hague Convention. Many delegations also mentioned, as effective means of  combating theft and illicit trafficking, the compilation of inventories, the establishment of a cultural heritage list or  database following the “Object ID” norm, specialized training of customs and police, and finally revision of national  legislation, tighter international coordination and increasing public awareness. In this connection, several delegations  from developing countries voiced regret at their own nationals’ involvement in theft and illicit trafficking of cultural  property and called upon UNESCO for assistance in conducting public awareness campaigns, especially among the very  young, for safeguarding the cultural heritage. At the end of the debate, the Commission recommended approving the  decision as amended in the meeting. Regarding this item, the Commission similarly took note of the report on the  activities of the 2004-2005 biennium and the thirteenth session of the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the  Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation.
(56.18)  The Committee then moved on to debate item 5.13, “Cultural objects displaced in connection with the Second  World War”. After the introduction by the representative of the Director-General, the Legal Adviser brought to the  Committee’s attention the plenary meeting’s recent decision on procedural issues concerning the drafting of international  standard-setting instruments. After statements from representatives of 23 Member States, the Commission decided that  the question of cultural objects displaced in connection with the Second World War should be the subject of a non- binding “declaration of principles” and invited the Director-General to submit a draft “declaration of principles” at the  next session of the General Conference, after having convened an intergovernmental meeting.  (The speaker continues in English)
56.19 The fifth debate was devoted to the consideration of the preliminary report by the Director-General setting  out the situation to be regulated and the possible scope of the regulating action proposed, accompanied by the  preliminary draft of a convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. This topic  generated enormous interest, demonstrated by the fact that 126 interventions were made by 79 Member States,
2 observers and 9 NGOs. We were also honoured by the intervention of ministers from 15 countries during this session.  In fact, the number of participants was so high that we had to move to Room I to accommodate everybody. This  expression of the importance of the cultural debate in our governments’ agendas brought us for the first time in the  history of the General Conference of UNESCO to this room.
56.20 The representative of the Director-General introduced the debate by recalling the steps taken for the  preparation of the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions – notably the  convening of three category VI meetings of independent experts and three category II intergovernmental meetings, as  well as the meetings of the drafting committee and consultations with the World Trade Organization (WTO), the World  Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD),  plus a working group convened by the Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Committee held in Cape Town. There was  overwhelming support for the objectives and the scope of the convention. Many delegations endorsed the text of the  convention, considering it balanced in its content and a result of intense negotiation over a long period of time.  Furthermore, the majority of the Member States who took the floor urged the Commission to adopt it without modifying  the text. A large number of Member States also remarked that the adoption of the convention would allow for the  protection of cultural diversity in their countries, the reinforcement of human rights and the stimulation of international  dialogue bringing considerable potential for development, in particular in developing countries. They considered that  this convention could safeguard their culture against uniformization and homogenization in the context of globalization.  Moreover, it was emphasized that cultural activities, goods and services have both an economic and a cultural nature  because they convey identities, values and meanings, and must therefore not be treated as having solely commercial  value. During the discussion, several representatives expressed the position of their groups on the draft convention,  namely the delegation of the United Kingdom representing the European Union, with which Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania  and Turkey associated themselves; Panama, representing the Latin America and the Caribbean group; South Africa  representing the Africa group; and finally Costa Rica representing the Group of 77 and China.
56.21 There were three Member States who explicitly made known opposite views. The United States of America  stated that the final draft is, and I quote, “deeply flawed and fundamentally incompatible with UNESCO’s constitutional  obligation to promote the free flow of ideas by word and image”. It also remarked that there had been neither enough  time nor the opportunity for a serious negotiation on the draft text. The United States of America also considered that  the text still contained a number of ambiguities. Firstly, the text might be misused by governments for adopting  measures that would protect and promote majority cultures at the expense of minority cultures. Secondly, the text of the  convention might be used by governments to interfere with freedom of expression and of information and  communication, as well as with the ability of individuals to adopt cultural expressions of their choice. And thirdly, any  State might invoke the provisions of this convention to assert a right to erect trade barriers to goods or services that are
499  deemed to have cultural value. These points were echoed to a large extent by the delegations of Israel and Australia.  The delegation of Australia made specific reference to Articles 4, 5, 6, 8, 16 and 20 of the draft convention concerning  the relationship to other international treaties, as well as to Articles 6, 8, and 16 regarding potential conflict with  domestic laws and policies, particularly for migration.
56.22 The Commission then proceeded to examine the draft resolution presented by the United States of America,  which consisted of 28 amendments to the text of the draft convention. Having received the explanations of these  proposals from the delegation of the United States of America – and after some discussion on procedural matters – the  Commission voted by a show of hands, according to Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, on  each and every element of this draft resolution, and none of them was retained. The Commission then adopted the  convention by a two-thirds majority vote, in accordance with Rule 85 subparagraph 1(c) of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference. The result of the vote was: 151 Member States in favour, 2 against, with 2 abstentions.  Immediately after that, Professor Kader Asmal from South Africa, Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Meeting of  Experts, addressed the Commission to present his reflection on the process leading towards the adoption of the  convention and its scope. In particular, Professor Asmal remarked that the convention explicitly acknowledges  important issues such as the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms when States take measures to protect  and promote cultural expressions, in particular those of minorities and indigenous peoples, and that the convention  should in no way be regarded as an obstacle to trade.
56.23 Following this speech, the Commission considered the revised draft resolution submitted by the delegation of  Japan, which explained that the purpose of its proposal was to confirm that the convention primarily pertains to the field  of culture, and that the measures to be taken in accordance with its provisions shall not compromise the rights and  obligations established under international instruments in related fields. The Commission recommended the adoption of  the draft resolution. At the end of the debate, Japan, the United States of America, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea  and Mexico delivered an explanation of vote, and their statements have been duly recorded in the written report upon  their request. Following this morning’s adoption of the written report of Commission IV, I will provide additional  comments on this item at the end of my presentation.  (The speaker continues in Spanish)
(56.24) (Translation from the Spanish) During the sixth debate the Commission examined item 5.34, “31st biennial  International Theatre Institute (ITI) World Congress (Manila, Philippines)”. Six Member States endorsed the initiative,  recognizing the important role of the theatrical performing arts as an educational instrument in promoting cultural  diversity. The Commission then adopted the draft decision to support the holding of the event in Manila, in May 2006.  The Commission subsequently took note of the Director-General’s report on the activities of the International Fund for  the Promotion of Culture (2004-2005). During discussion of item 5.22, “The South-South Cultural Forum in UNESCO”,  promoted by the second summit of the Group of 77 and China, and held in September 2005 in Doha, many Member  States spoke in favour of the initiative, acknowledging the importance of encouraging dialogue and promoting  development, peace and solidarity among nations. Several statements, particularly from the Asia and Africa groups,  expressed a desire to be associated with the initiative. The Commission took note of the preparation of the South-South  Cultural Forum and of the fact that a consolidated proposal would be presented by the Group of 77 and China, together  with Benin, during the 34th session of the General Conference.
(56.25)  Allow me to move on to debate 7, which covered three items on our Commission’s agenda. We began by  examining item 5.31, “Proposal for the establishment of a regional centre for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural  heritage (Cusco, Republic of Peru) under the auspices of UNESCO”. The 14 Member States taking the floor welcomed  the proposal and highlighted the importance of that regional initiative. In his reply, the Director-General’s representative  stated that the regional centre would not necessarily have any budgetary implications for UNESCO and could provide a  database for conducting operational activities in the region. The Commission adopted the draft resolution authorizing the  Director-General to sign the corresponding agreement with the Peruvian authorities.
(56.26)  We went on to item 5.37, “African Position Paper on the State of World Heritage in Africa and Proposal for  the Creation of an African World Heritage Fund”. Highlighting the wealth of Africa’s cultural and natural heritage, many  Member States regretted that this heritage was underrepresented in the World Heritage List and that a high proportion of  Africa’s World Heritage sites featured on the List of World Heritage in Danger. There was unconditional support for this  initiative and the need to increase training and national capacity-building through the establishment of an African World  Heritage Fund. During the same debate, the Commission also took note of the Report of the Intergovernmental  Committee for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage on its activities in the biennium (2004-2005),  which report presented additional information on the principal activities and the decisions taken by the World Heritage  Committee in 2005 at its 29th session in Durban, South Africa.
(56.27)  In connection with item 5.5, “The misuse of religious symbols and expressions”, most delegations taking the  floor expressed appreciation of UNESCO’s actions to promote intercultural and interreligious dialogue; at the same time,  they acknowledged the need for a balance between guaranteeing freedom of expression and combating violation of  human rights and fundamental freedoms. Following statements from 11 Member States and one Observer, the  Commission adopted the draft resolution with two minor amendments. The Commission then went on to examine the last  two items on the agenda, item 5.2 on “Jerusalem and the implementation of 32 C/Resolution 39” and item 5.3 on  “Implementation of 32 C/Resolution 54, concerning educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories”.  The Chairperson of the Commission recalled that the Executive Board at its 172nd session had examined these two  questions and made a decision regarding them, by consensus and without debate, following a lengthy negotiation process  between the European Union, the United States of America and the parties concerned. The Director-General’s  representative described the activities carried out to safeguard the Old City of Jerusalem, placed on the World Heritage  List. Also mentioned were the recent missions to Jerusalem in 2004 and January 2005. After those two presentations, the  Commission adopted both draft resolutions by consensus and without debate.  (The speaker continues in English)
56.28 Following the adoption of the written report of Commission IV by the Commission this morning, a number  of delegates requested specifically that mention of some of their concerns be reflected in my oral report to this plenary  so as to reproduce them in the proceedings of the General Conference. In this regard, I would also like to point out that  due to the fact that Commission IV adopted its written report only a few hours ago, the plenary will still have to refer to  document 33 C/84 Prov., since the concerned internal services of UNESCO could not issue a revised version of the  written report of Commission IV for this afternoon.
56.29 A number of delegations – in particular Benin, Hungary, Iceland, Slovenia and Switzerland – requested that  the debate on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 clearly mention the importance of languages, inviting the
501  Director-General to take into account the remarks made during the debate both in Commission II and in Commission IV  with regard to the implementation of the intersectoral programme on languages in accordance with the pertinent  paragraphs of documents 33 C/6 and 33 C/6 Add., and document 33 C/5 Approved reflects this concern. The  representative of Argentina requested that in the preparation of document 33 C/5 Approved, mention be made of the  regional scope of activities pertaining to the intangible cultural heritage, in particular in the Latin America and the  Caribbean region, as regards the documentation and inventorying of the oral traditions of remote local populations.  With regard to the item pertaining to the cultural objects displaced during the Second World War, the United States of  America requested that reference be clearly made to its endorsement of the Director-General’s statement encouraging  Member States to agree to a pause in the elaboration of new standard-setting action at UNESCO. On this same item,  one NGO – the International Council of Museums (ICOM) – requested that mention be made in the proceedings of the  General Conference of the role of ICOM in combating the illicit traffic of cultural property, in particular through the  ICOM Code of Professional Ethics. As regards the adoption by the Commission of item 8.3 pertaining to the adoption  of the convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, three issues have been  specifically mentioned for inclusion in the proceedings of the General Conference. First of all, a number of delegations  requested that explicit mention be made of the interventions by the United Kingdom on behalf of the European Union,  to which Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and Turkey associated themselves; by Panama on behalf of the Latin America and  the Caribbean group; by Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of 77 and China; by Cape Verde on behalf of the Latin  Union; and by South Africa on behalf of the Africa group. Next, the representative of Brazil recalled that in adopting  the convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, the Commission had also  adopted the contents of Annex VI of document 33 C/23 pertaining to linguistic adjustments for the consistency of the  various linguistic versions, and that this concern be reflected in the proceedings of the General Conference. Finally, the  delegate of the United States of America requested that the written report of Commission IV explicitly mention that  during the debate on item 8.3 in the Commission, the United States had presented an oral amendment to paragraph 4 of  draft resolution 33 C/COM.IV/DR.3 Rev. submitted by Japan. This oral amendment was examined by the Commission,  and following a vote by show of hands which resulted in 116 votes against the American amendment, 3 votes in favour  and 3 abstentions, the proposed oral amendment by the United States of America was not retained. However, according  to explanations provided by the Secretariat with regard to the established practice for written reports by commissions,  oral amendments are not to be reproduced unless they are retained. Following this discussion, the United States  requested that mention of this issue be reflected in the proceedings of this General Conference.
56.30 With regard to item 5.31 relating to the establishment of a regional centre for the safeguarding of the  intangible cultural heritage in Peru, explicit mention was made by the representative of Algeria regarding the intention  by the Algerian authorities to establish a similar institution in Algiers. Following this presentation to Commission IV,  the representative of Costa Rica also requested that explicit mention be made of the preparation of the South-South  Cultural Forum – an initiative presented and promoted by the Group of 77 plus China and Benin – in the proceedings of  this General Conference. The forum would be aimed at fostering dialogue between Africa, Latin America and the  Caribbean with a view to promoting, on an interregional basis, the enhancement of joint historical processes through  respect for cultural diversity, and would be the subject of a consolidated document to be submitted to the General  Conference of UNESCO at its 34th session.
56.31 Coming to the final adoption by Commission IV of its written report, the United States of America formally  opposed its adoption, requesting a vote. Following a vote by show of hands resulting in 98 votes in favour of the  adoption of the written report, one vote against and two abstentions, the written report of Commission IV was adopted  by the Commission.  (The speaker continues in Spanish)
(56.32) (translation from the Spanish) Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I have nearly  finished my presentation. Since the main theme on which the Commission has worked is undoubtedly the promotion and  protection of cultural diversity, I wish to end on a quotation from “The Labyrinth of Solitude” by Octavio Paz, Mexican  laureate of the 1990 Nobel Prize for Literature, saying: “What sets worlds in motion is the interplay of differences,  attractions and repulsions […] By suppressing differences and peculiarities, by eliminating different civilizations and  cultures, progress weakens life and strengthens death […] Every view of the world that becomes extinct, every culture  that disappears, diminishes a possibility of life”. I thank you all very much.  (Applause)
(57.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Mr Nualart, Chairperson of Commission IV, you were faced with a momentous, important and difficult task,  but you worked hard and spared no effort until the beginning of the General Conference. You carried out important  consultations with many parties to ensure that your work would be a success. I was one of the people with whom you  consulted. Your hard work, your distinguished cultural knowledge, your good judgement and your working methods have  all helped to make a success of your time chairing Commission IV, and have lead to significant and outstanding  resolutions. I should therefore like to congratulate all of the members of your Commission and of the Bureau, as well as  those members of the Secretariat for their efforts in that regard. They have performed their tasks to a high standard of  competence. My compliments to you all. Mr Nualart, I should like to add my voice to that of your Commission, and on  behalf of the General Conference, to commend that great defender of culture Mr Mounir Bouchenaki for the excellent  work he has carried out during his long time with the Organization; it will be remembered as some of the best in  UNESCO’s history. We wish him all the best for his future, even though I cannot believe that he has reached the age of  retirement. I should therefore like to repeat about him the words of a wise person: “I am in awe of the young person who  shows the wisdom of the old, and of the old person who shows the energy of the young. Whoever lives by that maxim  may grow old in body, but never in mind.” Thank you very much. Before I ask you for any comments on the report or  any amendments to the resolutions contained therein, I should like to remind you that item 8.3, Preliminary draft  convention on the protection of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions, and the Director-General’s  report on the matter will both be examined closely after our general session has been informed of the report. Before we  come to discuss the report, the United States has asked for the floor.  (The President continues in English)
57.2 You have the floor, Ambassador.
58.1 Ms Oliver (United States of America):   Thank you, Mr President. My delegation would also like to add our voice to that of the President of the  General Conference in stating how grateful we are for the excellent job done by the Chairperson of Commission IV. As  the Chairperson of Commission IV has just stated, my delegation did vote this morning in Commission IV against the  adoption of its report. We did so because of the report’s failure to make reference to the amendment proposed by the  United States delegation to draft resolution 33 C/COM.IV/DR.3 Rev. submitted by Japan, and the vote that took place  thereon in the Commission, so we are pleased that the Chairperson has now referred to the United States amendment in  his oral report. In fact, the amendment consisted of nothing more than two direct quotations from UNESCO’s  Constitution, one containing the “free flow of ideas by word and image” and the other referring to the “free exchange of  ideas and knowledge”. Much to our surprise and disappointment, only three members of Commission IV were willing  to reaffirm these quotations.
58.2 Mr President, it will be important for those looking back on what was done at this General Conference to  have available as complete and accurate record as possible. However, the Legal Adviser informed us in Commission IV  that it is not UNESCO practice to include in commission reports records of oral amendments or votes thereon. I wish,  therefore, to state formally, for the record, that on 17 October 2005, in Commission IV, the delegation of the United  States of America proposed the insertion at the end of paragraph 4 of draft resolution 33 C/COM.IV/DR.3 Rev. of the  phrase: “in particular the free flow of ideas by word and image and the free exchange of ideas and knowledge”. This  proposal was defeated by a vote of 3 in favour and 116 opposed and 3 abstentions. I request that this statement be  included in its entirety in the official records of this plenary meeting. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٥٩,١ אא، ، א.א א א א א א א א א  .؟.٨,٣א
(59.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Ambassador. All that you have mentioned and all of your comments will be gladly recorded in  the records. I now submit to you the report with all of the resolutions that the Chairperson of Commission IV referred to,  excepting item 8.3. Are there any comments? Costa Rica.  (The President continues in English)
59.2 Costa Rica, you have the floor.
(60) Mr Díaz Carmona (Costa Rica) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of all the Member States of the Group of 77 and China, I would like to  thank Ambassador Jaime Nualart for his openness, commitment and dedication as Chairperson of Commission IV  (Culture), and also the members of the Bureau, the Secretariat and the Rapporteurs. The experience and charisma of  Ambassador Nualart not only enabled us to finish our work on schedule, but also ensured a warm, participatory and  respectful atmosphere throughout the important discussions we held. We also commend the magnificent report he  presented. In that connection, we have only one little remark: in referring to the request made by the Group of 77, it  should be mentioned that this concerns the dialogue between Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and he indicated  that that would be one of the objectives of the South-South Cultural Forum in UNESCO. This is not exactly the case and  we would like that statement to be amended. What was requested of the Ambassador was that it be indicated in his oral  report that this dialogue between Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean was an initiative presented by the Ambassador  of the Dominican Republic and the Ambassador of Benin. This Forum should be seen as an activity in the preparatory  process for the South-South Cultural Forum in UNESCO. It is very important because the South-South Cultural Forum in  UNESCO will of course be open to all Member States, but will also have a definite impact on all developing countries  and in each of the regions which form the Group of 77 and China. Therefore, this reference to the dialogue between  Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean was part of the preparatory work for the Forum, including the reference to  Benin. Benin is a full member of the G-77. I would therefore say that there should just be a reference to the G-77 and  China, of course, provided the Ambassador of Benin has no objections. Those were the only observations I wished to  make for the time being, Mr President. Thank you very much.   :א ٦١,١ א.א א ؟.،א ، א אא  ..אא
(61.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. Your comments will be recorded in the records. Are there any other comments? I  cannot see any comments on the report or on the resolutions it contains. I should like to remind you that all of the  comments that have been made will be recorded in the records. Namibia.  (The President continues in English)
61.2 Namibia, you have the floor.
62. Mr Emvula (Namibia):  Thank you, Mr President. Namibia would simply like to thank the Chairperson of the Commission and the  members of the Commission for the report just presented. We would further like to express our thankfulness to the now  outgoing Assistant Director-General for Culture, who has played a fundamental role in raising issues of importance,  especially to the African group, the African continent and other developing parts of the world. We would also like to
504  congratulate the Chairperson of the group of experts, Professor Asmal, on the dynamism he has shown all along in the  negotiations for the draft convention that has now been submitted for adoption as part of the report to the General  Conference. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٦٣ א.א א א.א א .אא א  .،.א
(63) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Your thanks will be recorded on behalf of all of you in the records. The time has now come to use  this gavel. I have been very much looking forward to doing so. That is therefore done.  (Applause)  Item 8.3: Preliminary report by the Director-General setting out the situation to be regulated and the possible  scope of the regulating actions proposed, accompanied by the preliminary draft of a convention on the  protection of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions  Point 8.3 : Rapport préliminaire du Directeur général sur la situation devant faire l’objet d’une réglementation  ainsi que sur l’étendue possible de cette réglementation, accompagné d’un avant-projet de convention sur la  protection de la diversité des contenus culturels et des expressions artistiques  Informe preliminar del Director General sobre la situación que debe reglamentarse y el posible alcance de ésta,  acompañado de un anteproyecto de convención sobre la protección de la diversidad de los contenidos  culturales y las expresiones artísticas  Пункт 8.3: Предварительный доклад Генерального директора по вопросу, который должен стать  предметом регламентации, а также о возможной сфере охвата такой регламентации и  предварительный проект конвенции об охране разнообразия культурного содержания и формы  художественного самовыражения  א:٨,٣א א א ، א א א א א א ، אא א א   项目 8.3：总干事关于应该制定一项规章的情况和该规章可能涉及的范围的初步报告，及一份保护文化内容和 艺术表现形式多样性公约的草案初稿   :א ٦٤,١ אאא"٨,٣א،،א،א א א א א،א،."אא א א ، א.אא א אא א א אא٨,٣אא.א א.אא א.א.א א ،.אא.אא ، א אא:א א א١٥٤:א א אא.١٥٠:، א א.١٠١א א.אאא١٤٨:א א א ،،.א  .אאא،א
(64.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  And now, ladies and gentlemen, we move on to item 8.3, “Preliminary draft convention on the protection of  the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions, and Director-General’s report on that subject.” As you know,  ladies and gentlemen, this Convention requires a majority of the members present and those voting in order to be adopted.  When we begin to vote, I therefore request you to lift your name plates and to keep them in view so as to allow the  Secretariat to count the votes accurately. I now put the contents of item 8.3 regarding the aforementioned preliminary  draft convention to the vote. We begin with the States supporting the adoption of the convention. Please raise your name  plates. I now call upon the States that oppose the convention and wish to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the  vote. The number of States that are entitled to vote and are present is 154. The number of those who voted is 150. Two  thirds of the Member States that are present and have voted would therefore mean 101 votes. Now the results: 148 of  UNESCO’s members support the convention, two States oppose adopting the Convention, and four States abstained.  Ladies and gentlemen, the convention on protecting cultural contents has therefore been adopted.  (Prolonged, vigorous applause)  אא.א ٦٤,٢ א ، א  .א
(64.2) Thank you. I now consider the Convention to have been officially adopted, and give the floor to the United  Kingdom.  (The President continues in English)
64.3 United Kingdom, you have the floor please.
65. Mr Craddock (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland):  Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking tonight on behalf of the 25 Member States of the  European Union; Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Turkey associate themselves with this statement. Mr President, this is  a great day for UNESCO. A new, fundamental law on culture, so long missing from the global governance system, has  been adopted. It is responding to the needs of all people – the need for dignity, the need for respect, the need for  identity. With this Convention, cultural diversity, currently under threat, particularly in the poorest countries, will  become a right we all share, just as much as we shall all share the duty to preserve it. I would again like to pay tribute to  the Secretariat for their neutrality and their dedication to duty, as well as for the quality of their work and the work of  the intergovernmental experts. I would also like to thank all participants for the civilized and good-humoured way in  which the debate has been conducted, particularly over the last few weeks. With one country in particular we have  agreed to disagree on this matter, but we do not disagree on the fundamental values which make our societies so vibrant  and so diverse. In concluding, I would like to quote the words of the 18th century British philosopher Thomas Carlisle:  “The great law of culture” – and surely this Convention before us now is a great law of culture – “The great law of  culture is: let each person become all that he was created capable of being.” That is what this Convention will help to  achieve. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (Applause)   :א ٦٦,١  ..א
(66.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Afghanistan.  (The President continues in English)
66.2 Afghanistan, please.
67. Mr Zahir (Afghanistan):  Thank you very much, Mr President. First, through your good offices I would like to thank the distinguished  Chairperson of Commission IV. Also through your good offices, I express my gratitude to Mr Bouchenaki. I want to  repeat what I said about him in Commission IV. He is still the star of his sector – in the Culture Sector, which, together  with the other sectors, represents the dignity and the pride of UNESCO. Mr President, I have taken the floor to make the  following comments. To begin with, cultural diversity for the Afghan people in society and as a nation is a source of  democracy, national identity, unity and dignity. This is why we firmly supported the adoption of this Convention – and  I voted for it – by this session of the General Conference of UNESCO. Let me make a couple of points, Mr President.  On the draft resolution submitted by the distinguished representative of Japan, with which we are co-sponsors, if the  name of Afghanistan is in paragraph 34 of the report of Commission IV, for the sake of clarity, I must say that I  supported the amendment proposed at the time by the United States of America because it was a direct quotation from  the preamble of the Constitution of UNESCO. I am sorry that it was defeated, Mr President. I would also like to say that  we are happy about the adoption of this Convention. But I must also say with frankness, and without wishing to arouse  the sensitivities of my friends, that there are some issues in this Convention that may possibly be interpreted differently  when it comes to applying it in national laws. For example, in Article 20, we may understand paragraph 2 better than  subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 1. Thank you so much.
68. The President:  I call Australia, please.
69. Ms Madden (Australia):  The Australian Government clearly recognizes the importance of cultural diversity to societies and to their  sense of identity. This is the case in Australia. The stated aim of the just developed and adopted UNESCO Convention  on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions is to preserve and develop the ability of people  to express themselves through their artistic works and cultural expressions and to have access to those of others.  Australia, of course, supports this. However, for the Convention to be effective, it must be workable and consistent with  other international instruments. Despite substantial efforts to achieve these objectives, the Convention asks States  Parties to implement measures which conflict with their international obligations, particularly in the areas of trade and  intellectual property. As such Australia abstained on its adoption. Thank you.
70. The President:  Iceland, the floor is yours.
71. Mr Einarsson (Iceland):  Thank you. Iceland would like to deliver the following explanation of its vote. Mr President, nothing is  perfect in this world, not even the conventions of UNESCO. However, in the given circumstances, we seem not to have
506  been able to come up with a better text on this highly important matter. Therefore we fully supported its adoption,  wishing it to be for the benefit and blessing of us all. Thank you.   :א ٧٢,١  .א
(72.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you.  (The President continues in English)
72.2 Japan, please.
73. Mr Sato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to welcome the adoption of the cultural diversity  convention. A great deal of effort was made to finalize this convention, and at this moment I would like to express my  sincere gratitude to all the people concerned for their endeavours. We, together with several other countries, had some  concern, especially about the relationship of this convention to other international instruments, but, as we see in the  resolution, we have now come to share a common understanding which, I believe, may be quite useful in determining  our course of action in the future. Mr President, UNESCO has worked out many conventions in the field of culture, and  I am convinced that along with the 1972 World Heritage Convention and the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of  the Intangible Cultural Heritage and others, the cultural diversity convention now concluded adds another jewel to the  crown of the family of normative instruments in the field of culture. Now it is UNESCO and its Members’ turn to  enhance our cultural policy and to enrich the diversity of culture making the most of this apparatus which we have just  constructed. I celebrate this new achievement. Thank you, Mr President.
74. The President:  Thank you. Philippines, you have the floor.
75. Mr Villarroel (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr Chairman. The statement I am going to make is an explanation of the Philippines vote. The  Philippines voted in favour of the Convention, not only because we believe in the equality of cultures in all their  splendid and enriching diversity, but also because we are convinced that cultural diversity has an essential role to play  in the promotion of world peace, security and understanding. However, a convention once adopted assumes a life of its  own, and could take States Parties to it into areas far removed from its original intent and purpose. A concern, I hasten  to add, that is not unjustified, as this Convention, which is a product of negotiations and compromise, contains  ambiguous language in many of its parts. The Philippines would therefore like to express the hope that this Convention,  as we stated in our previous intervention in the form of a caveat, will not be used as a carte blanche to impose  protectionist measures in contravention of existing trade rules and regulations. I would like to request, Mr President,  that this statement be put on record. Thank you.
76. The President:  Thank you. Thailand, you have the floor.
77. Mr Futrakul (Thailand):  Thank you, Mr President. Thailand voted for this Convention because we were convinced that it would  enhance cultural cooperation and exchanges and the preservation and promotion of cultural diversity. We therefore  wholeheartedly welcome the passage of this historic Convention. Thailand, however, wishes to register our concern  regarding the possible problem of policy consistency and legal certainty in the simultaneous implementation of this  Convention and other international obligations. In other words, Mr President, Thailand does not want to find ourselves  in a situation that makes it impossible or very difficult to render performance to the objectives of this Convention and at  the same time those of other international obligations. In this connection, Thailand therefore urges strongly that any  measures to preserve and promote cultural diversity under this Convention be implemented in harmony with other  international obligations and not in contravention of other international instruments, in particular those of the World  Trade Organization (WTO) agreements. Mr President, it is also Thailand’s belief that a lucid demarcation between this  Convention and other international obligations is needed to prevent policy confusion and legal limbo, and to facilitate  policy consistency and legal certainty in implementation of this Convention and other international obligations. Thank  you, Mr Chairman, and may I ask that this statement be duly recorded in the official records.
78. The President:  Thank you. United States of America, you have the floor.
79.1 Ms Oliver (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. The United States is the most open country in the world to the diversity of the  world’s cultures, peoples and products. It is not only a part of our heritage, but the essence of our national identity. It is  therefore with regret that we stand in opposition today to this Convention because of those who have indicated a clear
507  intent to use this Convention to control, not facilitate, the flow of goods, services and ideas. As a strong advocate of  cultural diversity, the United States had high hopes that these negotiations would produce a convention that promoted  this goal. Unfortunately, our hopes have not been realized, and instead we have before us a hastily drafted text which is  subject to misinterpretation and abuse in ways that could undermine rather than promote cultural diversity. Just this  week, there have been disturbing statements by some government leaders of their intent to use this Convention to block  the import of agricultural and other products from the developing world and others. The United States has achieved the  vibrant cultural diversity that so enriches our society by our commitment to freedom and our openness to others, and by  maintaining the utmost respect for the free flow of ideas, words, goods and services. We believe it is critical that this  Organization and global leaders make clear that this Convention will not become yet another tool for major world  markets to shut out goods and services from developing and other markets.
79.2 The goal of the United States is to ensure the free flow of diversity in all of its forms: cultural, informational  and trade. In addition, this Convention, as now drafted, could be used by States to justify policies that could be used or  abused to control the cultural lives of their citizens; policies that a State might use to control what its citizens can see,  what they can read, what they can listen to, and what they can do. We believe, in keeping with existing conventions,  that the world must affirm the right of all people to make these decisions for themselves. We have said from the  beginning of this discussion that we would gladly support a convention that truly promotes cultural diversity, that  provides tools and mechanisms to foster a free flow of cultural exchange, and that encourages opportunities to nurture  and enhance local cultures. Instead, the ambiguous text lends itself too easily to being used as a tool to undermine  UNESCO’s constitutional obligation to promote “the free flow of ideas by word and image”. And this text could be  used – misused – to legitimize actions by governments to deny human rights and fundamental freedoms.
79.3 Anyone who looks around the world today will understand that such concerns are not unfounded, and can  entail the possibility of great consequences in some societies. The process that produced this Convention was driven by  unnecessary haste. The document’s ill-defined terminology and internal inconsistencies do not demonstrate the respect  that this important subject-matter deserves, or the rigour that should characterize a legally binding document. Yet we  have been told repeatedly, since June, that the text is firm, that we could not even establish a working group to review  our concerns. We have received repeated assurances from other delegations that the Convention is not intended to  permit any restrictions or limitations on human rights and trade openness, but neither the time nor opportunity was  provided to clarify fully the intent of the text. We have been clear that the Convention cannot properly and must not be  read to prevail over or modify rights and obligations under other international agreements, including World Trade  Organization (WTO) agreements. Potential ambiguities in the Convention must not be allowed to endanger what the  global community has achieved over many years in the areas of free trade, the free flow of information, freedom of  choice, and cultural expression and enjoyment. We have been assured by a number of other delegations that the  Convention is not intended to modify or prevail over the rights and obligations of parties arising from other  international agreements. We sincerely hope, and expect to observe over time, that the actions of governments that  ratify the Convention will be consistent with these assurances and not in line with the troubling public statements of  officials of some governments.
79.4 For these reasons the United States has requested clarity of language as to this Convention’s relationship with  other international instruments. The rights and obligations found in such instruments provide the legal foundation for  increases in trade that have brought greater prosperity to billions of people around the world. Will the Convention place  these other rights and obligations at risk? We regret that this Conference has not taken the time to fully clarify this  intent in the text itself. This instrument remains too flawed, too open to misinterpretation, and too prone to abuse for us  to support. Because our position on this instrument is based on principles that we hold dear and not on the basis of  pressure to do what is politically popular, we cannot in good conscience subscribe to this Convention. You can be  assured that we will continue the effort to promote genuine cultural diversity. We will do so by continuing to work for  individual liberty and the ability of people around the world to receive and impart diverse cultural influences, including  the right to enjoy cultural expressions of their own choosing, not those prescribed by their governments. For these  reasons, the United States voted “no” on the adoption of this Convention. Mr President, I would like this statement  entered into the permanent record in its entirety. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٨٠,١ א.א  .א.،
(80.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. That will be done, Ambassador. The Republic of Korea.  (The President continues in English)
80.2 Republic of Korea, please.
81. Mr Jong-il Kim (Republic of Korea):  Thank you, Mr President. Before making a statement, my delegation wishes to assure you that we do not  have any intention of dampening the festive mood prevailing in this House. Mr President, my delegation has voted in
508  favour of the adoption of the Convention in this plenary, as it did in Commission IV on 17 October. Just for the record,  my delegation reiterates our concern regarding some of the wording of the Convention, which can be open to  conflicting interpretations, and takes this opportunity to clarify our position on them. My delegation firmly believes that  the provisions of this Convention shall not affect the rights and obligations under the other international treaties. Article
20, especially, shall not be interpreted as being able to modify rights and obligations under other treaties. In addition,  the measures to be taken in accordance with the provisions of this Convention must be implemented in a manner  consistent with other international rights and obligations. Setting aside the above-mentioned concerns, we welcome the  adoption of this very important Convention, and should like to commend all the participants engaged in the difficult  process of drafting it. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٨٢  ..א
(83.1) Mr Makki (Oman) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, President. My country’s delegation would like to clarify its position on the Convention. The  Sultanate of Oman is in favour of protecting and fostering the forms of cultural expression, and preserving the right of  States Parties to draw up and adopt cultural policies and appropriate procedures protecting and fostering the forms of  cultural expression, and bolstering international cooperation and solidarity. The aim is to improve the capacity of  developing States to encourage and bring to fruition the diversity of forms of cultural expression between all of the  countries of the world. We hope that this Convention will be supported during implementation, so that it can take its  place in the context of UNESCO’s goals. It could then help preserve that diversity, and will not contradict UNESCO’s  Constitution. We hope that this Convention will support the other international obligations to which my country has  agreed, so that there is no overlap between the Conventions of the United Nations and other bilateral agreements to which  my country has committed itself. We should like to state that the Sultanate of Oman stresses respect for the diversity of  cultural expression and supports raising awareness of it on a local, national and international level. It is also in favour the  dialogue between civilizations to ensure that cultural exchanges take place that are broader in scope and more evenly  balanced across the world. It supports respect between cultures and spreading the culture of peace.
(83.2) Mr President, we should also like to offer our sincere thanks and appreciation for the great efforts exerted by  Dr Mounir Bouchnaki on behalf of the Organization and the Member States, and wish him every success in his future  work. We also express thanks and appreciation to the Chairperson and members of Commission IV for their part in  making the work of the Commission so successful.   :א ٨٤,١  .א
(84.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you.   (The President continues in English)
84.2 Bahamas, you have the floor.
85.1 Mr Hepburn (Bahamas):  Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, my delegation would like to join all of the others in  extending congratulations to the Chairperson of Commission IV, but particularly to extend its best wishes to  Mr Bouchenaki for the outstanding work that he has done in this Organization. Mr President, even though my
509  delegation tried very hard to follow the debate on this item, I must confess that I am still confused about many of the  nuances surrounding the Convention. Nevertheless, my government is convinced that such a Convention is necessary,  and therefore gladly supported the Convention.
85.2 Delegates, you have heard a lot of the pros and cons with respect to this Convention, so I am just going to  make a brief general comment. There is an adage that says “variety is the spice of life”. I use this phrase because it  mirrors the discussions that we have had on this item, which refers to the “diversity of cultural contents and artistic  expressions”. In essence, Mr President, the mixture of emotions expressed – pain, joy, disappointment, satisfaction,  victory, defeat – all of these have set the stage for future negotiations on non-consensus issues. My delegation wishes to  commend UNESCO for its efforts in this regard. Thank you, Mr President.
86. The President:  Thank you. Costa Rica.
(87) Mr Díaz Carmona (Costa Rica) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of 77 and China, allow me to express our full  satisfaction with the adoption of this Convention, in view of its significance for the identity and cultural diversity of our  peoples. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to convey our respect and admiration for all that Mr Mounir  Bouchenaki represents and will continue to represent for UNESCO and for culture in general. We are grateful to him for  his work, and for the guidance and firm support which all the members of the Group of 77 and China have always  received from him. Thank you very much.
88. The President:  I give the floor to Senegal.
89. M. Diouf (Sénégal) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, comme vous le savez, le Sénégal est coauteur de la  requête qui a été présentée au Conseil exécutif en vue de l’adoption de ce document. C’est la raison pour laquelle nous  voudrions aujourd’hui nous féliciter avec d’autres États de l’adoption de ce document qui aborde, entre autres, le  problème de la dignité de nos cultures. Le droit qu’il reconnaît à nos différents États d’adopter des politiques culturelles  définies selon leur volonté est pour eux d’une très haute importance. Mais nous voudrions surtout, en ce moment  solennel, souligner avec force que ce n’est en aucun cas pour nous un instrument qui fait obstacle à l’expression d’une  quelconque culture. Bien au contraire, c’est un moyen de plus de donner à toutes les cultures sans exception des chances  et occasions de se rencontrer, de se connaître, d’échanger, de dialoguer dans des conditions plus que favorables parce  que placées dans un cadre propice à un enrichissement mutuel. Monsieur le Président, nous avons tous à œuvrer à  l’enrichissement des termes de l’échange culturel, si je puis oser cette expression. Par ailleurs, le Sénégal veut voir dans  cette convention un outil supplémentaire mis au service de la communauté internationale pour intensifier la recherche  de la paix grâce à un renforcement du multilatéralisme et du dialogue des cultures. Aucune culture, aucune nation ne  doit donc se sentir exclue de ce texte. En tout cas, pour nous, c’est un texte inclusif, qui concerne toutes les cultures du  monde ; c’est pourquoi le Sénégal invite toutes les délégations présentes à exhorter leur pays à entamer très rapidement  des procédures de ratification et encourage les différentes coalitions pour la diversité culturelle et les différentes  sociétés à se rassembler et à rassembler toutes les communautés intellectuelles de leur nation autour de cette  convention. Oui, Monsieur le Président, nous pensons que cette convention mérite l’adhésion de l’ensemble des  citoyens de ce monde. Pour sa part, le Sénégal, qui abritera le mois prochain la huitième réunion du Réseau  international sur la politique culturelle, le RIPC, va engager toutes les démarches nécessaires pour favoriser ce dialogue.  En attendant, Monsieur le Président, nous voudrions rendre ici un hommage mérité à notre compatriote car, fils de  l’Afrique, M. Mounir Bouchenaki a bien rempli sa mission et a fait honneur à son continent. Je vous remercie Monsieur  le Président.  (Applaudissements)
90. Le Président :  Merci beaucoup Excellence, Madame la Ministre d’Haïti, vous avez la parole.
91. Mme Comeau-Denis (Haïti) :  Je vous remercie infiniment. Permettez-moi de rappeler qu’il y a deux cents ans, le jour même de sa  naissance en tant que nation au sortir de trois siècles de colonisation et d’esclavage, mon pays a symboliquement posé  un geste identique à celui que nous posons aujourd’hui par le biais de cette convention. En choisissant le nom d’Haïti,  nos ancêtres ont voulu rendre hommage aux populations autochtones indiennes massacrées qui avaient totalement
510  disparu du territoire. La République d’Haïti exprime par conséquent sa profonde satisfaction de ce vote qui consacre la  naissance de cette convention, elle-même fruit de larges compromis, donc forcément imparfaite au regard des réalités  objectives de chaque État. Si nous savons la traduire en action, cette convention constituera un apport majeur pour  l’humanité. Ses dispositions nous offrent les moyens de célébrer nos différences, de les promouvoir, de faire en sorte  qu’elles ne soient plus sources de conflits, mais sources d’harmonie et de respect entre les peuples ; elles sont une invite  à la tolérance et, en cela, un moyen extraordinaire de réduire la violence dans le monde, les violences du monde. La  République d’Haïti souhaite ardemment le renforcement de cette belle solidarité scellée ce soir par ce vote, afin que les  pays du Sud puissent se doter des outils nécessaires pour impulser des politiques culturelles et des politiques de  développement durable. Enfin, la promotion des industries culturelles consacrée également par cette convention ne  devra en aucun cas accroître les inégalités déjà criantes entre les États membres ici présents ; surtout, il nous faudra  veiller à mettre en place les mécanismes appropriés, à nous doter d’instruments propres à protéger le monde contre la  standardisation qui risque de résulter de l’industrialisation également promue par cette convention. La République  d’Haïti réaffirme sa satisfaction, félicite le Président de la Commission IV pour la qualité du rapport qu’il a présenté  aujourd’hui et salue tout spécialement M. Bouchenaki, qui nous quitte bientôt. Merci.  (Applaudissements)
92.1 Le Président :  Merci beaucoup Madame.  (Le Président poursuit en arabe)
(92.2) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Iraq, you have the floor.  א(אא ٩٣,١  :)א א א א א א א א א ، ،.א א א אא א א ، א  .א
(93.1) Mr al-Khatib  (Iraq) (translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, I should like to congratulate the international community and UNESCO for passing the  preliminary draft convention on cultural diversity. However, I should like on behalf of Iraq to record the following  comment on the Convention, which I shall state in English to prevent any difference in translation.  (The speaker continues in English)
93.2 My country hopes that nothing in the Convention is intended to prevail over or modify rights and obligations  under other international agreements.  (The speaker continues in Arabic)  א ٩٣,٣ א ، א א א א א ، .א ، א א א א אא.א א א א א  .א.،
(93.3) (translation from the Arabic) Mr President, I should not omit in conclusion to present my thanks and regards  to Commission IV, and to its judicious and capable Chairperson. Nor will my country forget over the next few  generations what Mr Mounir Bouchenaki did for culture in Iraq. We could not possibly give him his due, even if we were  to erect a statue of him on a Baghdad square. Mr President, I should like to ask you to kindly include what I have just said  as part of the records of the session. Thank you very much.   :א ٩٤,١ ،  .א.א
(94.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. It will all be recorded. Canada.  (The President continues in English)
94.2 I give the floor to Canada.
95. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Je crois que nous pouvons déclarer ensemble ici qu’il s’agit d’un jour grandiose  pour l’UNESCO. Il y a quelques années, l’Organisation s’est proposée de contribuer à humaniser la mondialisation. Je  pense que par l’adoption de cette convention, elle fait un grand pas dans cette direction. Nous nous sommes ainsi dotés  d’un nouvel instrument juridique international qui aura un statut égal à celui des autres traités et ne sera subordonné à
511  aucun autre. Nous remercions le Secrétariat et l’ensemble de l’UNESCO grâce auxquels, au fil des années, ce grand  rendez-vous a pu avoir lieu et a permis d’aboutir à ce moment historique au terme de nombre de débats et de  consultations. L’UNESCO s’est révélée un cadre particulièrement efficace pour la conduite de ces débats et l’obtention  d’un très large consensus, comme nous venons encore de le constater. Je voudrais aussi dire toute la gratitude de notre  pays envers le Président de la réunion intergouvernementale d’experts, M. Kader Asmal, qui a su faire preuve de  qualités exceptionnelles pour maîtriser la situation et insuffler le dynamisme sans lequel nous n’aurions pu aboutir dans  l’harmonie à ce compromis équilibré. Telle est la principale définition que nous pouvons donner de cette convention,  une convention de qualité qui va assurer le développement de nos cultures, favoriser le dialogue entre producteurs et  artistes de différents pays, encourager les échanges dans le respect de la diversité et faire en sorte que cette diversité,  précisément parce qu’elle sera mieux prise en compte, conduise à un meilleur développement de l’humanité et à notre  enrichissement mutuel. Je tiens aussi à souligner que ce nouvel instrument résulte d’une démarche réalisée par un vaste  ensemble d’États, à qui je veux exprimer notre gratitude. Des États qui, au départ, s’y sont crus un peu étrangers, mais  qui, très vite, ont ouvert le dossier, y ont trouvé leur intérêt et ont adhéré au mouvement avec conviction et  enthousiasme. Je voudrais saluer aussi l’action de certains groupes d’États, francophones, de langue espagnole,  lusophones et autres dont les efforts conjugués ont été couronnés de succès. Qu’il me soit aussi permis de souligner que  les nobles principes directeurs et les dispositions de cette convention répondent par avance à la plupart des réserves et  mises en garde exprimées. Chers collègues, il nous appartient maintenant, à nous les nations qui adhérons si  nombreuses à cette convention, de mettre en route des procédures de ratification, de sorte que l’an prochain au cours du  biennium à venir, cet instrument soit ratifié par des dizaines et des dizaines de pays et que son entrée en vigueur  intervienne le plus rapidement possible, le plus efficacement possible. Merci beaucoup.  (Applaudissements)   :א ٩٦ א.א א.א א א ، א א .א א א  .א.א.א
(96) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I should like to remind you that it is now 8 p.m. The interpreters will soon be leaving the hall, so  we shall not be able to continue this discussion. I therefore ask you to be brief when you take the floor. We have six  speakers, and please be brief. I now give the floor to Palestine.   :)(אאא ٩٧ א א.א، א א،א א א.١٤٩א א א א ، א אא א، א א א א א א ، א א א א א א،،، א. א א א א.א א אא א א א א א א،א א א  .א،א
(97) Mr Abdel-Razek (Palestine) (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Mr President. This is a historic day. Had Palestine had the right to vote, the number of States in  agreement would have been 149. I should therefore like you to record our moral vote in the records; we are perhaps the  people that holds the Convention in the highest regard. That is because our own heritage has been exposed to destruction,  and at the occupiers’ attempts to stamp out our culture. We therefore extend our deepest thanks to all of the States that  found this instrument to help us and to help all peoples that do not have the means to defend their own culture. They have  found this instrument, as I said, to help those peoples preserve and protect their culture and their expression of it. We also  thank UNESCO as a whole for what it has done for Palestinian heritage and culture. We hope that this Convention will in  future become an instrument alongside the other ones to help support poor and needy peoples, and particularly those  under occupation. Thank you.
98. The President:  I give the floor to Albania.
99. Mme Gjonaj (Albanie) :  Monsieur le Président, l’Albanie a voté en faveur de cette convention et voudrait souligner qu’elle en  apprécie particulièrement l’un des principes directeurs, relatif au respect des droits de l’homme et des libertés  fondamentales. En mettant cet instrument en œuvre, nous devons tous faire le meilleur usage possible de ses  dispositions. Il est important de souligner que si, conformément à la Charte des Nations Unies et aux principes du droit  international, les États ont le droit souverain d’adopter des mesures et des politiques pour protéger et promouvoir la  diversité des expressions culturelles sur leur territoire, il leur faut cependant veiller à ce que cela ne favorise pas les  replis identitaires et la censure ; ce nouveau texte doit au contraire servir les échanges et le dialogue entre les cultures et
512  les civilisations. Ayant connu un demi-siècle de dictature, l’Albanie tenait à exprimer ce souci et insiste donc pour que  tous soient vigilants dans l’application de la convention. Nous félicitons tous les États qui ont collaboré à l’élaboration  d’un texte qui satisfait toutes les cultures. Nous sommes convaincus que, grâce à cette convention, la sauvegarde de la  diversité culturelle va devenir un devoir commun. Nous sommes extrêmement heureux de participer à cet événement  historique et je voudrais, au nom de mon gouvernement, exprimer ma gratitude au Président de la Commission IV mais  aussi en particulier à l’Afrique du Sud pour sa contribution aux travaux des trois réunions intergouvernementales, ainsi  qu’à M. Mounir Bouchenaki, qui reste un ami fidèle de l’Albanie. Merci Monsieur le Président.   :א ١٠٠,١  .א.א
(100.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Once again, I ask you to please be brief.  (The President continues in English)
100.2 New Zealand, you have the floor.
101. Ms Kominik (New Zealand):  Thank you. New Zealand is very pleased to support the adoption of this important Convention. New Zealand  has expressed its concerns, which are outlined in detail in the report of Commission IV. We therefore endorse the  comments already made by the delegations of Korea, Philippines, Thailand and Japan, and ask that this New Zealand  position be included in the final record. Thank you.
(103) Mr Herrera (Venezuela):  Thank you very much, Mr President. International organizations, whether regional, subregional or global,  have the advantage of enabling all their Member States to express themselves democratically. Naturally, this is also the  case in the United Nations system, where each and every sovereign State is able to exercise this right freely. Now when it  comes to adopting international instruments, having recourse this possibility in no way affects the legal soundness of a  standard-setting text, since a convention which receives the support of a large majority of States has sufficient authority  and force to be applied, once ratified by the parties that have adopted or endorsed it. This is why we vote for and support  the adoption of this convention, and we recall that the position of Venezuela in the international system, as a sovereign  State, is not against freedom, but rather against environmental problems such as global warming, against the perverse  effects of neoliberalism such as hunger and misery, and in favour, very much in favour, of justice and inclusiveness.   :א ١٠٤ א.א  .א
(104) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Algeria.  א(א ١٠٥,١  :)א ، א א ،  .א
(105.1) Ms Tomi  (Algeria) (translation from the Arabic):  Mr President, may the peace and the mercy of God and His blessings be with you. I wish you a blessed  Ramadan.  (L’oratrice poursuit en français)
105.2 Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Mesdames et  Messieurs, permettez-moi de vous dire mon immense gratitude pour avoir permis à une femme algérienne, ministre de  la culture de son pays, donc une femme à la fois africaine, arabe et musulmane, de vivre deux raisons supplémentaires
513  d’être ce qu’elle est, c’est-à-dire porteuse d’une culture très diverse et très riche. Je voudrais remercier l’UNESCO et  toute cette auguste assemblée et, à travers elles, rendre hommage à M. Kader Asmal, un frère africain, pour m’avoir  donné une nouvelle raison d’être fière d’être africaine, pour le travail formidable que lui et son pays, l’Afrique du Sud,  ont accompli au service de l’humanité en œuvrant à la réalisation d’un consensus, consensus qu’il a été très difficile de  dégager mais qui a été finalement obtenu. Merci à vous, M. Kader Asmal, merci à l’Afrique du Sud, qui me rendez fière  de mes origines, merci pour cette œuvre merveilleuse que vous avez accomplie. Je tiens également à exprimer mon  immense gratitude à M. Mounir Bouchenaki, mon frère algérien, à le remercier lui aussi de me rendre fière d’être  algérienne, d’être une femme algérienne, pour le magnifique travail qui lui a valu les félicitations de toute cette  assemblée. Merci Monsieur le Président.   :א ١٠٦  ..א.א.א
(106) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. I should like the interpreters to stay with us because there are only three speakers left.  I give the floor to Burkina Faso. Please be brief.
107.1 M. Savadogo (Burkina Faso) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président je voudrais d’abord vous dire que ces votes historiques  ont montré que nous devrons prochainement moderniser la technologie de la salle des plénières pour nous permettre  d’être toujours à la pointe du progrès, surtout maintenant que les votes se font sur pupitre.
107.2 Monsieur le Président, le Burkina Faso, qui conduit en ce moment les destinées des pays membres de  l’Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, tient à exprimer aujourd’hui sa satisfaction devant ce qui a pu être  accompli en quelques années. Les États membres de cette organisation participent aux réunions internationales  consacrées au projet de la convention depuis plusieurs années et leurs experts gouvernementaux ont contribué à  l’élaboration de ce texte. Il est donc logique que notre communauté, consciente des importantes avancées qui ont été  obtenues, ait voté en faveur de cet instrument. Nous savons, Monsieur le Président, que la perfection reste un idéal,  mais en cette matière comme en d’autres, l’idéal ne peut être atteint que par des progrès successifs. Le texte actuel  constitue un pas historique, fruit d’un compromis longuement élaboré. De notre point de vue, les aspects relatifs aux  droits de l’homme et à la libre circulation de l’information, à la protection du libre commerce et aux coûts de mise en  œuvre y sont pris en compte. Monsieur le Président, comme le dit un proverbe chinois, « un long voyage commence par  le premier pas ». Nous sommes donc sensibles aux différents arguments exposés mais nous savons que le monde entier  tirera le plus grand bénéfice du document qui vient d’être adopté. En ce moment important de la vie de notre  Organisation, dont nous célébrons le soixantième anniversaire, cette convention fera certainement date. Pour mon pays,  elle constitue un nouvel acte de reconnaissance, un acte de solidarité internationale, et nous nous en félicitons. Il fallait  donc la faire naître en espérant que les imperfections qui ont été relevées ici et là s’estomperont avec le temps pour le  bien-être de toute l’humanité. Je vous remercie.
108.1 Le Président :  Merci beaucoup.   (The President continues in English)
108.2 I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Executive Board.
109.1 Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Work on this Convention started in the  Executive Board some two or three years ago, and the Board three weeks ago recommended its adoption to the General  Conference. Today, of course, is therefore a very important – and I believe a good – day for this Organization.  However, we should look together to the future, and we should not speak here about a victory. We should speak here  about a result, which must be, in the long term, acceptable to every Member State. What I mean by this is that we have  a text which obviously gave rise to a diversity of views. This is natural: it is in the nature of this Organization that we  discuss, debate and finally – hopefully – come to a good conclusion agreed by all.
109.2 This Convention has received today the constitutionally required majority of two thirds, but we have to look  now, I repeat, to the ratification and then – much more importantly – to the interpretation and the implementation of this  very, very important text. What I would like to hope – and I appeal to all Member States on this – is that we are really,  genuinely guided by those noble objectives and principles in the Convention in front of us which we have now adopted.  I would like to repeat some of them, while not excluding the others. I hope that we will hold to the principles of  solidarity, cooperation, complementarity, access and openness, and that we have once more committed ourselves to the  full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
109.3 I therefore expect this Convention to be applied, in the full sense of its meaning, and I hope that all Member  States, along with this Organization, will consider themselves to be the guardians of its constructive and cooperative  interpretation and implementation, otherwise it will not be considered credible. Therefore, I hope that we will take those
514  concerns that have been raised here by many delegations seriously – and I think we owe it to them to respect their  different opinions – and that we will commit ourselves to what we have said here in the past weeks and over the past  years. In other words, that we will certainly apply this Convention in good faith, and in a constructive and cooperative  way, because the Convention, as has been said before, should not divide us, but should unite us for the sake of the  common good of all peoples and the diversity of cultures. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (Applause)
110.1 The President:  Thank you, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board.   (The President continues in Arabic)  א ١١٠,٢ א א א א ،  .א.א
(110.2) (translation from the Arabic) The closing words now go to the man who has worked over the last few years  for this Convention. I give the floor to Professor Kader Asmal.  (The President continues in English)
110.3 You have the floor, Sir.
111.1 Mr Asmal (South Africa) (Chairperson of the Intergovernmental Meeting of Experts):  Mr President, as-salāmu ‘alaikum. Shukran. Director-General, Chairman of the Executive Board of  UNESCO, Ministers – who, I am surprised to see, are still here, as I am sure they have better things to do than to listen  to the last speech this evening – and ladies and gentlemen and friends, it is a great honour to be asked to take the floor  before the delegates to the General Conference for the second time this week. With Aristophanes, I was going to ask the  President for a beaker of wine to whet my mind so that I could say something intelligent. But Ramadan intervenes and it  is very late in the day. Today we act as witnesses to a truly historic event. The international community has now  adopted a truly historic cultural treaty reaffirming the bonds linking development, dialogue, social cohesion and the  cultures of all the peoples of the world, including, I am most happy to say – after some debate, by the way – women,  persons belonging to minorities and indigenous people, who, as you know, are very vulnerable to pressures from  different sources. Moreover, the Convention guarantees that any measure undertaken to protect and promote the  diversity of cultural expression shall, in no way, infringe human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is absolutely vital  to say that this expands fundamental rights and freedoms, gives real content to fundamental rights and freedoms, and far  from diminishing any aspect of rights and freedoms for which so many people have made so many sacrifices, this  Convention expands and gives real content to them.
111.2 And so we have established a new standard-setting instrument, we have established the most innovative  platform for international cultural cooperation that the world has ever known. You see, it belongs to all of us. It has  been a long road, as the Chairman of the Executive Board has said. The signposts were not always before us, although  we had the draft treaty from the experts. Some newspapers of course have invented their own signposts, of which I am  not aware, of which we are not aware. Let me say very clearly, this Convention belongs to all of us. It is not a French  convention. It is not a convention of the European Union. It is not even part of the Canadian “caravan” before us. It is a  valuable contribution by the entire community. I only became Chairperson because I felt that there was something that  the South could contribute to it, but it is not a convention for the South. It is not of the South either. It belongs to  humanity. That is very important. We should recognize that it is not part of a power play or a play of one nation against  the other, of one social group or one regional group against another. It is not part of that power play. Nor is it only about  television and radio control and access – it is much wider than that. And I think it is important to recognize the  extraordinary amount of work that has gone into this. So for me personally and for most of the South, it is an  enormously moving experience to have been here. During the weeks I have spent with you and your representatives,  struggling for consensus, I have been alternately inspired, frustrated, infuriated, excited and, finally, tremendously  proud that together we have managed to bring our work to a successful conclusion. Our Convention – and we need to  reiterate this – is based on respect, respect for the diversity of our cultures, respect for the dignity of each of us,  acknowledgement of our common humanity. These are the values of our own South African Constitution. These are  values of what we call ubuntu, the profound tenet of African philosophy, which holds that one is only fully human when  one recognizes the humanity of others.
111.3 I thank you for your recognition of these values. I thank someone who has not been thanked until now, and  that is the Director-General of UNESCO, who has been going through tumultuous times, ladies and gentlemen,  enormous difficulties and pressures, as I have known for the last year and a half that I have been involved in this, and  has come out steadfast. Unusually in international relations, we have actually carried out the mandate that the General  Conference gave us two years ago, to have a convention in a year’s time. We have carried out a mandate put before us  in the Executive Board. And credit is due, too, for the assistance given – the support that you have given me as  Chairperson, Mr Director-General, that Mr Bouchenaki has given, and also Ms Stenou, whom no one has specifically  mentioned before, but who I think has been one of the guiding lights of this whole process and deserves applause.
111.4 If you consider the critical analysis to which you subjected each succeeding draft, you will remember that  this Convention was not adopted light-heartedly, frivolously, so hastily as to prevent everybody from participating in it,  but underwent a most thorough-going analysis and review. And particularly Article 20, by the way. Article 20 is  considered by so many to be the heart of the Convention, and I can say, with respect to the fundamentals of  international law, that this Convention does not supersede other conventions, but is complementary to them. And so,  Mr President, thank you for your patience and forgive me for my own impatience, and thank you one and all for the  cooperation we have received from so many of you from so many different backgrounds, which is surely an inspiration  for the future.
111.5 It is most appropriate that this milestone coincides with the celebration of UNESCO’s 60 years of existence.  My own relation goes back decades, and so I truly believe that this new legal instrument will represent the most  effective contribution towards “preserving the independence, integrity and fruitful diversity of cultures” as well as  promoting “the free flow of ideas by word and image” which, as we all know, constitute two fundamental pillars of the  Organization’s mission as specified in the Constitution. But there is not going to be any direct threat, any frontal assault  as it were, on the diversity of cultures or the free flow of ideas by word and image. What this Convention does is to  enable all of us to participate in the free flow, in the real, genuine free flow of ideas. Finalizing the wording of the  Convention does not mean our work has ended. In the words of Africa’s most famous playwright, the writer Ben Okri  from Nigeria: “They are only the exhausted who think / That they have arrived / At their final destination / The end of  their road / With all their dreams achieved / And no new dreams to hold”. But we have many more dreams, and we want  you to fulfil our dreams, to maintain and develop them, ratify this Convention, accede to the Convention, set up the  structures, as Japan has asked, set up the structures for the Convention, so that we can have that kind of interplay  between countries and nations and cultures that makes us truly universal. And in such a way that all of us may enrich  our experience. I thank you for the confidence you showed, and for the way in which we have all, in the process,  enriched ourselves. Au revoir, Madam, ladies and gentlemen.  (Applause)   :א ١١٢ א.א א א ، ، א.א א א. א ،.א א ، א א  .א
(112) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall meet tomorrow morning in a great gathering to  appoint our colleague the Director-General. In the afternoon session, we shall close the proceedings of our Conference.  So thank you very much to the interpreters for their patience and expertise, and for staying here until now. My thanks to  them, and to you. I shall see you tomorrow.    The meeting rose at 8.20 p.m.  La séance est levée à 20 h 20   Se levanta la sesión a las 20.20  Заседание закрывается в 20.20  א ٢٠,٢٠א   会议于 20 时 20 分结束