1.1 Mr Omolewa (Nigeria) (Temporary President):  Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, Ministers,  Distinguished Ambassadors, friends and colleagues, representatives of intergovernmental and non-governmental  organizations, members of the media, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great joy that I welcome you to this 33rd session  of UNESCO’s General Conference. As President of the 32nd session, and in accordance with Rule 28 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, I hereby declare open the 33rd session of the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
1.2 Ladies and gentlemen, it is my sad duty to pay tribute to a number of great men and women who have played  a major role in the life and history of UNESCO but who are no longer here with us. At the outset, I cannot but start by  mentioning Pope John Paul II, who so significantly marked the lives of millions of people and whom I had the immense  privilege to meet in person and to receive his blessings. I should also like to recall His Serene Highness Prince Rainier  of Monaco, General Gnassingbé Eyadama, former President of Togo, Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, former  President of the United Arab Emirates and Emir of Abu Dhabi, Mr Yasser Arafat, President of the Palestinian  Authority, His Majesty Fahd bin Abdul Aziz, King of Saudi Arabia, Mr Ezer Weizman, former President of the State of  Israel, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, President of Fiji, Mr Zenko Suzuki, former Prime Minister of Japan, and Mr Thomas  Klestil, former President of Austria.
1.3 May I now invite you to observe one minute’s silence in their memory, and in memory of other distinguished  personalities who have passed away since the last session of the General Conference.  The General Conference observes one minute of silence.
1.4 May their spirits rest in peace. Thank you.
1.5 Excellencies, leaders of delegations, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, you will all understand me when I  say that I am both humbled and proud to be here with you today. The two years during which I have had the honour and  pleasure to preside over UNESCO’s General Conference have been eventful and challenging for the world at large, for  UNESCO and, of course, for me personally.
1.6 Fortunately, there have been many happy developments in our world, but we must recognize that the past two  years have been marred by numerous tragedies and drawbacks. International terrorism continues to show its ugly face in  many guises, and one of the greatest challenges that have ever faced humankind is to get to the roots of international  terrorism, to understand its reasons and the conditions under which it is breeding, and to take effective steps to prevent  it. Apart from terrorism, the world has been struck repeatedly during these last two years by natural disasters. The  tsunami catastrophe last December was devastating in terms of loss of human life and property, and then followed the  terrible flooding in the southern states of the United States of America, with the destruction of property and  infrastructure caused by Hurricane Katrina and now Rita. And we must not forget the many serious accidents that have  marred both air and rail traffic during this period. My personal sympathy and compassion go to the victims of all these  disasters, whether man-made or natural. And my hopes go to those international organizations, and very much so to  UNESCO, that can and should do everything possible to prevent or at least mitigate them. In this context, I wish in  particular to mention the effective response by UNESCO to the need to enhance the early warning systems to prevent  future tsunami disasters. We must also be grateful for the UNESCO-led dialogue among civilizations, and the role it can  play in the fight against terrorism.  (The President continues in French)
1.7 Mesdames et Messieurs, j’ai eu le privilège, au cours de ces deux dernières années, de participer activement à  la clarification du Programme de l’UNESCO ainsi qu’en avait convenu la Conférence générale lors de sa 32e session.  J’ai pu occuper à cet égard une position privilégiée en raison de ma participation aux sessions du Conseil exécutif, de  ma coopération et ma collaboration permanentes avec le Directeur général et de ma présence à différentes  manifestations nationales et régionales en relation directe avec la mise en œuvre des programmes qui associent  l’UNESCO et les États membres à l’œuvre créative de la coopération internationale. C’est grâce à cette position
5  privilégiée que je peux aujourd’hui me porter garant de l’ampleur et de la diversité des activités de l’UNESCO dans les  États membres. Je peux également témoigner des grandes espérances que nourrissent les États membres lorsqu’ils  voient les miracles, petits et grands, que l’UNESCO accomplit. Cependant, en toute sincérité, puis-je dire ce que j’ai  vraiment ressenti ? Puis-je dire qu’un engagement rassurant, ferme et résolu en faveur de la solidarité et de la  coopération internationale existe, même s’il était beaucoup plus important lors de la fondation de notre Organisation ?  C’est une question que je me suis quelquefois posée. Je crois que cela nous ferait le plus grand bien d’examiner chacune  des questions de cet ordre, que chacun d’entre nous s’interroge et voie quelle réponse nous pouvons y apporter.
1.8 Pourquoi par exemple, en dépit de nos vaillants efforts, sommes-nous toujours en train de lutter  frénétiquement pour trouver des réponses au fléau de l’illettrisme ? Nous savons tous aujourd’hui que le risque de ne  pas parvenir à atteindre les objectifs que nous nous étions nous-mêmes fixés est réel dans de nombreux États membres.  Désormais, le Programme Éducation pour tous est la priorité des priorités de nos programmes. Si nous consacrions tous  nos efforts à répondre à cette simple mais troublante question, peut-être pourrions-nous trouver la clé de certains des  intransigeants problèmes qui nous assaillent régulièrement. Nous devons débusquer les faiblesses de notre action et  trouver des moyens de les surmonter. Que devons-nous faire pour nous montrer à la hauteur du défi de l’illettrisme ?
1.9 J’ai délibérément placé ces questions parmi les premières lignes de mon discours parce que je refuse  absolument qu’elles soient noyées dans l’euphorie d’une UNESCO qui, aujourd’hui, est beaucoup plus vivante et  remplit beaucoup mieux les fonctions que lui avaient assignées ses fondateurs. Car oui, cette UNESCO existe.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
1.10 Ladies and gentlemen, for a start, authoritative confirmation of the health of the UNESCO enterprise came  from the recent United Nations summit which, in its declaration, has put education in its rightful place among the top  priorities in economic and social development, and has recognized the six goals adopted at the World Education Forum  in Dakar. We hope that with this recognition, adequate funds will also be made available, especially for developing  countries in their struggle to attain the necessary goals in these fields.
1.11 Perhaps the most enriching experience for me in the last two years has been the invaluable events and  activities that I have been privileged to savour as Member States from all corners of the world involved me in the  implementation of their national, regional and international UNESCO-related programmes and activities. You cannot  imagine how often I have had to say to myself: “Yes, this is UNESCO in action”, out there in the Member States where  I have been treated to a feast of programme implementations, ranging from places where I witnessed a most engaging  international music festival, to South Africa, twice – once for the World Heritage Committee, and a second time for a  very important conference on education – and then to Abuja for the launch of a major Nigerian national science reform  project with UNESCO. I must also mention my visits to China for a session of the World Heritage Committee, to  Germany for its National Commission’s symposium on cultural diversity, and to Libya to participate in the work of the  UNESCO-NEPAD Committee when I was able to appreciate the magnitude of the cooperation between Africa and  UNESCO, which covers most aspects of UNESCO’s interests.
1.12 Honourable Ministers, the visit of President Olusegun Obasanjo to UNESCO in May to participate in the  celebration of Africa Week at UNESCO was further evidence of the state of that cooperation. President Obasanjo was  then the current President of the African Union (AU) and Chairman of the NEPAD Implementation Committee. Lastly,  I had the opportunity to see in three different Member States – Haiti, Cuba and the Dominican Republic – the  implementation of activities in observance of 2004 as the International Year to Commemorate the Struggle Against  Slavery and its Abolition, proclaimed at the request of the General Conference. I was also fortunate to witness  celebrations marking the bicentenary of the proclamation of the first black State of Haiti. This experience was for me  rather important, for it gave me several opportunities to begin to appreciate the different manners in which local  flavours and orientations can bring about rich and varied results in programmes devoted to the same subject.
1.13 Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to recall that when my President, Olusegun Obasanjo,  was with us at the 31st session of our General Conference, one of the preoccupations he expressed was the importance  of the universality of membership of UNESCO, and the unhappy continuing absence of the United States of America  from UNESCO. He made a pressing appeal for the return of the United States to the fold. It is therefore a source of  particular satisfaction to me that I, as the President of the General Conference, have witnessed the increase in the  number of Member States of UNESCO from 189 to 191. The United States of America came back to UNESCO on
1 October 2003, just in time for the last General Conference, and Brunei Darussalam joined the Organization on
17 March 2005. In a few days’ time, we shall listen to Brunei’s statements in the general policy debate, and witness the  traditional ceremony of raising Brunei’s flag among the 190 flags that already adorn our conference room. I am also  pleased to note that Singapore, at its own request, will now obtain the status of Permanent Observer to UNESCO and  that the Organization is thus moving even further forward towards true and comprehensive universality.
1.14 The question of reform continues to be an important item on our agenda. The most recent step in these efforts,  as you all know, was the creation by the 32nd session of the General Conference of an ad hoc working group on the  relations between the three organs of UNESCO, which I have had the honour and pleasure to chair. The group had three
6  sessions during 2004 and 2005, and has submitted to the General Conference, in document 33 C/17, its final report,  comprising a total of 26 recommendations. Some of these are very far-reaching, and the debate in the Executive Board  at its 171st session in April seems to underline the need for more time to reflect on the recommendations and to assess  their feasibility. I sincerely hope that forthcoming discussions at the General Conference will take the reform efforts  further forward and identify the next steps that must be taken to succeed in these important endeavours. Reform is not  easy, but we should not shy away from the efforts needed to make this Organization even more effective and relevant to  its Member States.
1.15 Distinguished delegates, as we prepare to mark, in many varied places and manners, the 60th anniversary of  our Organization, we must strive to ensure that UNESCO continues to adapt itself to the many challenges of a rapidly  changing world. In this context, I must commend the Director-General for his efforts to modernize UNESCO and to  improve its management system. I sincerely believe that we are on the right track as long as we continue to be attentive  to the aspirations of our Member States, and as long as our efforts are directed to where they will have maximum effects.
1.16 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, in a few moments you will elect a new President for this  session and for the next two years. He will have a formidable task in front of him, which I am sure he will handle both  effectively and efficiently. These past two years have been one of the most rewarding experiences both in my  professional and in my private life. I have involved myself as fully as I could and am, as I have already stated, both  humbled and proud to see what has been achieved. In my work, I have enjoyed the help of many colleagues and many  members of the Secretariat, visible and less visible, without whom my task could not have been brought to fruition.  First of all, it has been a source of great joy to work so closely with the Chairman of the Executive Board, and I wish in  particular to express my heartfelt thanks to Ambassador Hans-Heinrich Wrede, who has become a close friend, and who  has on many occasions extended his valuable support to me in the discharge of my duties. I have also appreciated the  close relationship with the Director-General – to whom I also wish to reiterate my warm congratulations upon his  nomination by the Board for a second term – and with his very able staff, including my own very small yet highly  dedicated secretariat. It has been gratifying to experience their commitment to the goals of this Organization and their  hard work, and I wish them every success in their further endeavours. In this context, I wish to pay particular tribute to  Mr Stany Kol, former Secretary of the General Conference, now retired from UNESCO, whose advice and support was  most valuable to me when I first took office two years ago as President of the General Conference. Finally, I wish to  pay tribute to the translators and the interpreters without whom UNESCO’s work simply could not be carried out, and  who are often called upon to work very late hours under very difficult conditions, and to all UNESCO’s technical staff,  whom we rarely see, but upon whom we so heavily depend.
1.17 Dear friends, may the 33rd session of the General Conference mark yet another step towards a UNESCO that  is even stronger and even more credible and relevant than it is today. Spacibo, shukran, muchas gracias, je vous  remercie, xie xie, thank you all and God bless you.
1.18 Ladies and gentlemen, it is now an honour for me to invite His Excellency Ambassador Hans-Heinrich  Wrede, Chairman of the Executive Board, to deliver his address.  Address by the Chairman of the Executive Board  Allocution du Président du Conseil exécutif  Discurso del Presidente del Consejo Ejecutivo  Вступительное слово Председателя Исполнительного совета  א א   执行局主席讲话
2.1 Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  President of the General Conference, Director-General, honourable Ministers, Excellencies, ladies and  gentlemen, welcome. I am privileged and pleased to participate with you today in the opening of the 33rd session of the  General Conference. On behalf of the Executive Board and its 58 Members representing all regions of the world, I wish  you a rewarding stay and a successful mission here in Paris at UNESCO Headquarters. We are about to embark on a  new biennium. The Executive Board has laid the groundwork for this Conference. The Board is submitting to you the  Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 as well as a number of recommendations relating to the many issues the  two governing bodies of this Organization are charged with. It is our sincere hope that the Board has prepared your  deliberations well.
2.2 Distinguished audience, today, as ever, all of us are committed to the great global effort to advance human  rights. Today, as ever, we strive for peace, making this world a better place to live in for each and every one of our  people. UNESCO, along with the other institutions of the United Nations system, is called upon to tackle enormous  problems – more concretely, to make their respective contributions to attaining the Millennium Development Goals. So  that one day every man, every woman and every child can read and write; every human being can be free from fear;  everyone will have enough food and clean water; and, finally, everyone will be able to live a life in dignity.
7  Distinguished audience, dear friends, now is the time to help achieve those goals – to get the job done. In order to do  this, our work must be effective and focused towards tangible results – results that directly affect our peoples in those  fields where this Organization can make a real difference through its programmes and projects.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of daunting challenges, including the worldwide threat of terrorism,  UNESCO is needed. The world needs its ethical and intellectual role, its commitment to making mutual understanding a  peaceful reality. Translating our objectives into action is certainly very, very costly, but to do nothing is much more  costly. Distinguished audience, the purpose of this Organization is – more than ever – to strengthen international  cooperation in its fields of competence: education and science, culture and communication. Indeed, UNESCO’s  mandate is as relevant today as it was 60 years ago when the Organization was founded. So, dear friends, distinguished  audience, let us unite anew, with resolve and clear purpose, before our common objectives. Against all obstacles and  against sometimes serious setbacks, let us persist and stay the course. Let us prove again that UNESCO matters. Thank  you for your attention.
3. Le Président :  Merci beaucoup Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif ; je donne maintenant la parole au Directeur  général de l’UNESCO.  Address by the Director-General  Allocution du Directeur général  Discurso del Director General  Вступительное слово Генерального директора  א א   总干事讲话
4.1 Le Directeur général :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames et  Messieurs les Ministres, Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs, nous ouvrons  cette 33e session de la Conférence  générale dans un contexte que je voudrais placer d’emblée, si vous me le permettez, sous le sceau quelque peu solennel  des célébrations du 60e anniversaire de l’Organisation des Nations Unies, de l’UNESCO et de nombreuses autres  composantes du système.
4.2 Les symboles ont leur importance et celui-ci, 60 ans après la fin de la Seconde Guerre mondiale, en est  assurément un auquel nous pouvons adhérer pleinement. Il nous rappelle combien nos destins sont liés et nous engage,  de ce fait, à une réflexion collective sur les défis présents et futurs auxquels nous devons faire face aujourd’hui pour  faire vivre les objectifs et les principes de la Charte des Nations Unies de 1945.
4.3 Quelques semaines seulement après la tenue à New York du Sommet mondial consacré à l’examen de la  mise en œuvre de la Déclaration du Millénaire et du projet de réforme du système des Nations Unies, nous nous savons  engagés sur la voie de changements et mutations devenus indispensables. Qu’il s’agisse des efforts pour éradiquer la  pauvreté, de l’aide au développement, de l’Éducation pour tous ou de la lutte contre le terrorisme, la voie tracée par le  Secrétaire général Kofi Annan appelle un sursaut collectif. L’Assemblée générale, en reconnaissant notamment le rôle  de l’éducation dans le développement et l’éradication de la pauvreté, et en s’engageant en faveur du Cadre d’action de  Dakar sur l’Éducation pour tous (EPT) adopté au Forum mondial sur l’éducation en 2000, a sans aucun doute pris la  mesure de l’urgence dans ce domaine.
4.4 De même, certains des grands principes et engagements pris lors du Sommet, concernant en particulier la  culture, le développement durable (y compris la gestion de l’eau), la réponse aux catastrophes naturelles ou le dialogue  entre les civilisations, témoignent des priorités nouvelles auxquelles la communauté internationale est désormais prête à  souscrire.
4.5 Très sincèrement, et même si les résultats du Sommet peuvent paraître insuffisants ou en retrait sur nombre  de sujets, je crois que notre Organisation est mieux armée aujourd’hui pour faire face à ces défis et les relever.  L’identification assumée de nos domaines d’action prioritaires, la démonstration aux niveaux global et local de nos  avantages comparatifs, la réforme continue de la décentralisation, la meilleure intégration aux mécanismes du système  des Nations Unies, le renforcement toujours plus ample de nos partenariats - tous ces éléments font de notre  Organisation une instance mieux comprise, mieux admise, au sein de cette famille plus solidaire et complémentaire des  Nations Unies que la communauté internationale appelle de ses vœux.
4.6 Au-delà des discussions qui auront lieu ces prochaines semaines sur le Projet de programme et de budget  pour 2006-2007 (33 C/5), je me réjouis très vivement que s’instaure également à cette occasion, à l’initiative de  l’ASPAC, un débat sur l’avenir de l’UNESCO qui devra être étroitement lié à celui que nous lancerons sur la prochaine  Stratégie à moyen terme de l’Organisation, couvrant la période 2008-2013. Nous aurons en effet besoin d’un tel débat
8  prospectif, ouvert et sans tabous, si nous voulons dès maintenant contribuer à définir les contours de l’UNESCO du  XXIe siècle.   (Le Directeur général poursuit en anglais)
4.7 Mr President, in this task I know that I can count on the active participation of numerous Heads of State and  Government as well as ministers. The arrival of the Presidents of Sri Lanka and Ghana today and of the Presidents of  Germany, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Portugal, as well as the Prime Minister of Thailand in  the coming days, is an eloquent testimony that touches me deeply. Likewise, the joining of our Organization by Brunei  Darussalam, followed, we hope, by Singapore, which we are happy to welcome today as an observer, confirms for me  that the restoration of universality within these walls is not a vain ambition. This 5th of October, which is devoted to the  celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Organization, and which, for this purpose, is placed under the overarching  theme of human dignity, will provide us with yet another opportunity to unite around the common values on which our  entire commitment is based.
4.8 Two years ago I declared before this honourable assembly that “UNESCO has changed; it greets you on new  foundations, and it counts on you to continue opening perspectives and giving reasons to each person to hope for a  better world”. I really believe that UNESCO has changed and that it has continued to reform and adapt during the last  two years in tune with the changing world around it. I hope that this session of the General Conference will provide the  opportunity to assess the result of these years and to open a new chapter in our history.
4.9 Finally, I cannot end here without paying a most sincere tribute to Mr Michael Abiola Omolewa, President of  the General Conference, as well as to Mr Hans-Heinrich Wrede, Chairman of the Executive Board, both of whom  carried out their tasks with great efficiency and dedication during their mandates. Our governing bodies are the place  where the democratic vitality of our institution is laid, and I can bear witness to the fact that these last two years have  been rich in fruitful debate, carried out in a transparent and open way. I wish that this 33rd session of the General  Conference will deliver to UNESCO a clear and brave road map for the future that – if I can put it this way – will set  our course towards a “Cape of Good Hope”. I thank you for your attention.  Establishment of the Credentials Committee  Constitution du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Constitución del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Учреждение Комитета по проверке полномочий  א   成立全权证书委员会
5.1 The President:   I want to thank you very much, Mr Matsuura, for your very encouraging words. Ladies and gentlemen, the  next task before us is to establish the Credentials Committee. As you all know, and according to Rule 32, paragraph 1,  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Credentials Committee consists of nine Member States elected  by the General Conference upon proposal of the Temporary President, with due regard to fair geographical distribution.  After careful examination of the composition of previous committees, and following consultations of a great number of  delegations, I would like to suggest that the Credentials Committee be composed of the following countries: Belgium,  El Salvador, Haiti, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lithuania, Qatar, Senegal, Serbia and Montenegro, South  Africa. Are there any objections to this suggestion? It is so decided.
5.2 Allow me to remind you that according to paragraph 2 of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee  is responsible for electing its own Chairperson. I would also like to remind you that in 171 EX/Decision 33 the  Executive Board decided to recommend that His Excellency Mr Dragoljub Najman, Ambassador of Serbia and  Montenegro, be elected Chairperson of the Committee. I would now like to invite its members to meet at 12 noon in  Room VIII. Thank you.  Establishment of the Nominations Committee  Constitution du Comité des candidatures  Constitución del Comité de Candidaturas  Учреждение Комитета по кандидатурам  א   成立提名委员会
6. The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for us to set up the Nominations Committee. As you know, and  according to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Nominations Committee consists of the  heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference. The head of any delegation may designate another member
9  of his or her delegation to attend meetings and vote in his or her place; the representative of each delegation on the  Committee may be assisted by another member of the delegation. Furthermore, paragraph 4 of Rule 34 provides that the  Committee shall elect its own Chairperson. I would also like to remind you that in 171 EX/Decision 33 the Executive  Board decided to recommend that Her Excellency Ms Sybil Campbell, Ambassador of Jamaica, be elected Chairperson of  the Committee. I would now like to invite the members of the Nominations Committee to meet at 12 noon in Room IV.  Visits by H.E. Ms Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri  Lanka, and H.E. Mr John Agyekam Kufuor, President of the Republic of Ghana  Visites de S. E. Mme Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Présidente de la République socialiste  démocratique de Sri Lanka et de S. E. M. John Agyekum Kufuor, Président   de la République du Ghana  Visita de Su Excelencia la Sra Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Presidente de la República Democrática  Socialista de Sri Lanka y Su Excelencia el Sr John Agyekum Kufuor, Presidente de la República de Ghana.  Визиты Ее Превосходительства г-жи Чандрики Бандаранаике Кумаратунга, Президента  Демократической Социалистической Республики Шри-Ланка и Его Превосходительства г-на Джона  Агиекума Куфуора, Президента Республики Гана  א א א ،א א א א א ، א ، א  א 斯里兰卡民主社会主义共和国总统钱德里卡·班达拉奈克·库马拉通加女士阁下，及加纳共和国总统约翰·阿 吉耶库姆·库福尔先生阁下的访问    H.E. Ms Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and  H.E. Mr John Agyekum Kufuor take their places at the rostrum.
7.1 The President:  Ladies and gentlemen, I propose now to suspend the meeting for the next 40 minutes in order for the  Chairman of the Executive Board, the Director-General and myself to welcome our distinguished guests for today, Her  Excellency Ms Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,  and His Excellency Mr John Agyekum Kufuor, President of the Republic of Ghana. During this suspension I invite you  to please ensure that you return to your seats so that we can welcome the two guests by 11.45 a.m. We will expect  everyone to be seated by 11.45 a.m. so that we can show the two visiting presidents the honour they deserve. Until then,  ladies and gentlemen, you are free to have your break.  The meeting is suspended at 10.40 a.m. and resumes at 12.05 p.m.
7.2 Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it has become one of the proud traditions of  UNESCO that we welcome, throughout the sessions of the General Conference, a number of distinguished personalities  among the world’s leaders, and invite them to address the Conference. This is particularly true for the opening meeting  of each session of the General Conference. It therefore gives me great pleasure to welcome, on behalf of the  Organization and on behalf of all of you in this room, Her Excellency Ms Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga,  President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and His Excellency Mr John Agyekum Kufuor, President  of the Republic of Ghana.
7.3 On this particular occasion, please allow me to say a few words. Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, may I first address myself to you, Madam, and extend a particular welcome back “home” to Paris,  where you undertook a major part of your studies and where you have kept many friends. You represent a proud  tradition in your country for female leadership; and you have also shown great personal courage in following a family  vocation for high political office, in full acceptance of the high price that must sometimes be paid for this. I commend  you for your long and very distinguished political career, and for the major contribution you have made, through your  studies and publications in the fields of social science and development, both to the development of Sri Lanka and to  international dialogue. Your personal commitment to the welfare of the underprivileged and to the promotion of a  pluralistic society is well known and much appreciated.
7.4 Your Excellency, I can obviously not address you without remembering the terrible catastrophe that struck  your country and people last December. After Indonesia, Sri Lanka was the second country most severely hit by the  deadly tsunami, with almost 31,000 people killed. My personal sympathy and compassion go to all those that were  struck by the loss of loved ones, or the loss of property. We may, however, find some consolation in the fact that the  international community – governments, international organizations, and the private sector alike – reacted in a speedy,  effective and most generous manner, thereby helping the victims of the disaster to begin the long and painful road  towards the reconstruction of their lives. I am also proud to recall that UNESCO is very much in the forefront in the  creation or reinforcement of measures that may help mitigate, or even prevent, such disasters in the future – and that  very soon after the disaster it created a UNESCO antenna in Colombo to help assess the damage and extend concrete  assistance to the local populations.
7.5 Madam, in addition to your high office as President of your country, you are also concurrently Minister of  Education. In this connection, I wish to pay particular tribute to you for the impressive achievements of Sri Lanka in the  field of basic education. Your country devotes 10% of its budget to education; and your progress towards the targets set  in Dakar for achieving education for all, and laid down in the Millennium Development Goals, is significant: 92.5% of  adults are now literate, gender parity is practically achieved, and primary and secondary net enrolment rates are 95%  and 77.6% respectively. It is a true pleasure, Your Excellency, to have you with us; and I am confident that the  statement you will be making in a few moments will be a major inspiration to us all.
7.6 Ladies and gentlemen, Excellencies, leaders of delegations, honourable Ministers, it is yet another source of  pride and honour for me to introduce our second distinguished guest, President John Agyekum Kufuor. Mr President,  you are a lawyer, a politician, an administrator, a civil servant and a nation builder. Mr. President, your impressive  record as Chief Legal Officer and Town Clerk (that is the City Manager) of Kumasi, your notable contribution to the  drafting of the Constitution of your country, your membership of the Parliament of your country and your ministerial  experience were milestones on your journey to the Presidency, which you have now occupied since January 2001. You  are, of course, no stranger to international organizations such as ours, having led Ghana’s delegation to several  international gatherings, among them the United Nations General Assembly in New York, ministerial meetings of the  Organization of African Unity in Addis Ababa, and the Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement.
7.7 Mr President, you have worked relentlessly, resolutely, firmly and effectively, continuing the tradition for  discipline, coherence and unity laid down very early at the independence of your country. We are proud to see the  manner in which you have confirmed Ghana as one of the shining examples of Africa’s capability for progress,  development, transparency, dedication and commitment. You are on record as a leader who has devoted as much as
40% of your national budget to education. Under your leadership, good governance, the rule of law, the respect for  fundamental freedom and for democracy have become the cornerstones of your government. It is a great pleasure to  welcome you to UNESCO and to welcome you in particular as a symbol of nobility, as the former Chairman of the  Economic Commission for West African States and as the President of Ghana. President John Agyekum Kufuor.
7.8 Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, please join me now in extending our warmest  welcome to our two prestigious guests, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the  President of the Republic of Ghana.Thank you very much.
7.9 I now give the floor to Her Excellency, President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga of the Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Madam, you have the floor.
8.1 Ms Bandaranaike (President of Sri Lanka):  Mr President, Your Excellency, Mr John Kufuor, President of the Republic of Ghana, Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Your Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, Director-General of  UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed happy and honoured to be amongst this august  gathering and to be associated with the inauguration of the 33rd session of the General Conference of UNESCO. I wish  to thank the President of the General Conference for his kind words of welcome. May I also thank the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura, for the invitation extended to me to address this important Conference. I would like to take this  opportunity to congratulate you, Mr Matsuura, for being nominated for a second term at the helm of UNESCO. This is a  clear testimony of the confidence that UNESCO’s Members place in you and in the direction in which you have steered  UNESCO into the twenty-first century. We wish you even greater success in your new term.
8.2 I was in New York two weeks ago to address the United Nations General Assembly and to participate in its  celebration of 60 years of existence. The 60th anniversary of UNESCO is also celebrated this year, as UNESCO was  one of the first few specialized agencies to be founded a few months after the United Nations, on 16 November 1945. If  we reflect upon the past briefly, we know that at that time a shattered world reflected on the need to have in place a  framework to prevent for all time the necessity of war. The mandate given to UNESCO embodies the basic values and  the spiritual and intellectual bases of human existence. The preamble of the Constitution of UNESCO captures the very  essence of this Organization, stated as follows, and I quote: “That the wide diffusion of culture, and the education of  humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty which all  the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern”.
8.3 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, education is central to human existence. Education assures the  development and refinement of that most supremely powerful human asset: the mind. Through education we gain  knowledge of the experience of past generations, we acquire the ability to create scientific and technological advances  in order that we live better. Education also equips us to create the artistic, cultural and spiritual frameworks that are the  essential requisites for a meaningful human existence. In other words, education in its multifarious forms is the bedrock  of understanding among human beings, which is a prerequisite for justice, liberty and peace. UNESCO, as the United  Nations specialized agency for education, is entrusted with the noble responsibility of educational development which  will give rise to the promotion of the other areas of UNESCO’s activities: the sciences, culture and communication,  which would then extend to the environment and conditions for peace.
8.4 Education engenders dialogue and understanding between different viewpoints, cultures and value systems.  Today more than ever before, the world needs to inculcate a culture of dialogue and understanding if we are to extricate  ourselves from the vicious cycle of intolerance, violence and terrorism that is enveloping the globe. UNESCO bears a  major responsibility in promoting dialogue among peoples, communities and nations so that we may acknowledge and  appreciate the richness of diversity and build unity in diversity. The world exists and goes around on the basis of the  richness of its diversity, drawing sustenance from it. That diversity finds expression in the artistic creations of  individuals, of communities and of nations, which finally constitute their cultures. Culture and the arts embody the spirit  of man, the unconquered, unconquerable spirit of man – the one thing that has defied conquest by other men. I consider  that we, the United Nations of the world, have a sacred duty to ensure that we protect human diversity and also natural  diversity in all its manifestations. We can never permit one vision, one set of ideas, one project, to englobe the whole  world. How horribly poor, how dangerously oppressive it would be! In this context, Sri Lanka hopes that this session of  the General Conference will adopt the draft convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural  expressions. The Dakar Framework for Action committed the member governments to the achievement of the goal of  education for all by 2015. Basic education is given foremost priority, while equitable access to appropriate learning and  life skills programmes, adult literacy and eliminating gender disparities are some of the main areas identified for  implementation. This year the General Conference of UNESCO has given due focus to this vital challenge. We are  appreciative of the role played by UNESCO under the constructive efforts of the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro  Matsuura, to realize these objectives.
8.5 Sri Lanka since independence has maintained its interest in and focus on educating our children. In fact we  became a Member State of UNESCO in 1949, even before we took membership in the United Nations. I accepted this  invitation with much delight and anticipation as education is a subject in which I have always maintained a passionate  interest. Hence, in spite of my heavy responsibilities as President, I also hold the portfolio of education. While being  proud of our 92% literacy rate for both men and women, the highest in South Asia and one of the highest in South-East  Asia, we saw the need to introduce comprehensive reforms in the education sector to keep pace with a fast-changing  and globalized world. Sri Lanka has already achieved several of the education for all (EFA) goals, in primary education,  gender parity, and infant and maternal mortality. Our EFA development index is 0.95, placing us close to completing  the EFA goals before the targeted date. My government’s vision of development accords top priority to education and  health. We have tripled budgetary provisions for education for the past 10 years. At present, expenditure per student as  a proportion of national per capita income in primary and secondary education is around 11%, and for university  education it is 100%. We possess nearly 10,000 schools for a child population of 4.2 million. Under our new education  initiative we have undertaken the development of 750 existing schools as fully equipped “Smart Schools”. New  competency-based and outcome-oriented curricula have been introduced for all subjects, focusing on science,  mathematics, information technology and foreign languages. Improved educational materials, new systems of  examinations and performance assessment of not only students but also teachers, as well as accountability and school- based management, have been introduced.
8.6 Mr President, I wish to express a few thoughts about UNESCO’s other important mandate – that of peace.  Peace can only be acquired through economic development to eliminate poverty and despair, and through dialogue and  understanding. Education is the essential bedrock for all this. President Mitterrand once said, and I wish to quote this in  French:  (The speaker continues in French)
8.7 « La paix est une bataille, la paix n’est jamais donnée librement, elle n’est jamais acquise. Sa conquête  résulte du courage et du respect envers autrui et demande la conscience et l’engagement de tous. La paix n’est pas la loi  imposée par les puissants mais celle qui est fondée sur l’égalité et la dignité de tous les peuples. L’UNESCO peut jouer  un rôle essentiel dans ce processus. »  (L’oratrice reprend en anglais)
8.8 UNESCO can play an essential role in creating conditions for peace through programmes for culture,  education and interaction, and continued dialogue between communities and nations.
8.9 Mr President, we in Sri Lanka have suffered deeply from the lack of peace for 20 long years. An ethnic  conflict leading to terrorism has had terrible consequences on our human and limited natural resources. Worse, it has  afflicted the very soul of our nation, increasing violence, criminality, alcoholism and suicide. My government initiated a  plan of conflict resolution through a negotiated political settlement for our national problems. It has given some positive  results, but we have much more to achieve. We have also commenced a new programme for the protection of the child.  Our National Child Protection Authority, which I am told is the only one of its kind in the third world, implements  many programmes to eliminate abuse and violence against children and ensure their protection as well as their right to  enjoy freely life’s most precious gift – childhood. Our success is due to the outcome of sustained efforts in policy  planning and implementation.
8.10 The Millennium Development Goals call for the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of  women as effective means to combat poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance, and to stimulate all-round development.  All eight Millennium Development Goals are closely linked to women. The achievement of these goals and gender  equality and the empowerment of women are intrinsically dependent on each other. We have had people-centred  development and welfare policies from the mid 1940s in my country. This has assured Sri Lanka a high place in the  United Nations Human Development Index. My government has implemented pro-poor policies to eradicate poverty as  well as to strengthen programmes for gender equality and development of women. We have had a Women’s Bureau  since 1978 and a Women’s Ministry, which include social welfare, and a National Committee of Women, which  implements Sri Lanka’s Women’s Charter. It has many achievements to its credit, including the role in amending the  Penal Code to identify new offences and enhance punishment for sexual offences against women. We have a  remarkable female literacy rate. Enrolment in universities is high, with comparatively high rates of female employment  at executive levels. High literacy rates have resulted in high standards of maternal and child care. We have now  achieved zero gender disparity in implementing the Millennium Development Goals and education for all.
8.11 I wish to take this opportunity to express a word of appreciation to the Director-General for taking the  initiative to assist Sri Lanka in many ways following the tsunami disaster that devastated two-thirds of our coastal areas  last December. Hundreds of schools were destroyed, 36,000 people killed and many thousands of children affected. My  government gave special attention to the building of schools and getting the affected children back to school at the  earliest opportunity. It is a precious and much-felt right, which could not be denied under any circumstances. UNESCO  quickly established a special office to assess the damage and destruction and to assist in the field of education and  culture. We are also appreciative of the leading role played by UNESCO in the establishment of a Tsunami Warning  and Mitigation System for the Indian Ocean.
8.12 Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, many questions are being raised today about the concept of the United  Nations family and work within the entire United Nations system. Sri Lanka strongly supports the 2005 World Summit  Outcome document adopted at the recently concluded High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly of the  United Nations, and believes that UNESCO should take into consideration the proposed reforms in the examination of  its own methods of work in order that it can fulfil its mission. We believe that UNESCO’s mandate remains important  and firmly relevant. The strength of UNESCO lies in the forum it provides to create and inspire ideals, which need to be  translated into action for the benefit of mankind. Let us join together and work together in this common quest for a  better world for our future generations. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you.
9. The President:   Thank you, Madam, for your important statement. Now I have the honour and pleasure to give the floor to  Mr John Agyekum Kufuor, President of the Republic of Ghana. Your Excellency, you have the floor.
10.1 Mr Kufuor (President of Ghana):   President of the General Conference of UNESCO, colleagues, guests of honour, President Chandrika  Bandaranaike Kumaratunga of Sri Lanka, Chairperson of the Executive Board, Director-General, distinguished ladies  and gentlemen, I am deeply honoured to have this opportunity to come and address this august assembly, though the  honour really belongs to my country, Ghana. I should confess that Ghana has a special bond with the Director-General,  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, who started his diplomatic career in Accra some 20 years ago. Over the years, he has shown his  sensitivity to problems of Africa in many positive ways, to our admiration. So when he visited Ghana two years ago to  perform ceremonies related to the UNESCO Slave Routes project, he was made an honorary chief. In Ghana, this is a  mark of respect and appreciation that is rarely bestowed on visitors. I congratulate Mr Matsuura again, and thank him  for this wonderful opportunity to address the distinguished men and women who are assembled here.
10.2 Mr President, this year marks the 60th anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, and last month  member nations observed that historic milestone during the meeting of the General Assembly in New York. The world  is therefore looking forward to a grand 60th anniversary celebration next year, for UNESCO was established in 1946.  UNESCO, as we would recall, is one of the autonomous agencies of the United Nations, set up to promote education,  science and culture, as well as global peace. It was the hope that education, science and culture would become tools for  promoting understanding and peace among nations. The success of this agency’s mission was therefore deemed critical  to the overall efforts to restore normality to a devastated world after the Second World War.
10.3 Ladies and gentlemen, it is to its credit that this Organization has continued to live up to this mission in a  world that has been changing rapidly. Today, partly through the efforts of UNESCO and the other United Nations  agencies, the cold war, which divided the world into two opposing ideological and military camps and threatened global  peace, has faded into history. The political landscape of Africa, and of much of the third world, has also changed  dramatically, with former colonies emerging as independent sovereign nations. One effect has been an enlarged and  wider representation of States in United Nations agencies. But, Mr President, many of the changes in evidence in  today’s world are accounted for by the dramatic developments in the field of science and technology. Science is  opening vistas hitherto limited to fiction. Largely through information and communication technology, all parts of the  world are coming together to form what we now term the global village. The sound barrier has been broken by
13  revolutionary technology, making travel faster and more efficient than ever before. The global village has united  humanity across geographical, linguistic and cultural divides. It is also revolutionizing man’s awareness of himself, in  terms of both his limitations and his God-like potential. The experience is at once humbling and paradoxically  enhancing. All these momentous achievements have been made possible by the relative peace in the modern world, and  by the rapidly increasing and deliberate efforts to seek knowledge and to harness it for the betterment of mankind.
10.4 However, Mr President, much still remains to be done. So even as we celebrate the incredible achievements  under the leadership of the United Nations and its agencies like UNESCO, we must also acknowledge that there is still a  long way to go. The way forward must lie in the realization and the acceptance among all the races and nations of the  world of the centrality of our common humanity. This was the justification for the establishment of the United Nations.  Indeed, Mr President, these developments should provide the most formidable weapon for overcoming the related  problems of poverty, illiteracy, ignorance, hunger and disease, that continue to beset much of the world today, and also  for neutralizing the rising tide of intolerance and international terrorism that constitutes an immediate threat to the world  we wish to build.
10.5 Mr President, historically, Africa has had its own unique problems. The post-colonial period found Africa in  a world of bipolar conflicts, creating deep divisions across the continent. Since then, the associated problems of  uncompromising, and often ill-considered ideological and other schisms, have haunted African nations in the form of  economic challenges, tribal and religious conflicts, civil wars, genocide, hunger and disease. Fortunately, with rapid  globalization and the humanizing leadership of the United Nations and its agencies, many a nation on the continent now  realizes that the peoples of the world are becoming more and more interdependent and supportive of each other. It is  this awareness that is reassuring and empowering the African countries to rally and tackle the misfortunes which have  been their lot since the advent of their political independence from colonialism. In today’s world, whenever a problem  raises its head, the international community is mobilized to help. Whether it is food for the starving, relief for victims of  natural disasters or peacekeeping efforts in conflict zones, there is clear evidence of a global feeling of brotherhood.  Indeed, the maxim of each person being his brother’s keeper is being realized. This world-wide fraternal feeling is  captured by the spirit and letter of the Millennium Development Goals enunciated by the United Nations. Happily,  today I am able to report that we in Africa have decided to pull ourselves from the doldrums and join the mainstream of  globalization. We as States have decided to assert ourselves and to work in partnership among ourselves and with other  continents, States and races, to share in the common values that should bond the global village.
10.6 Mr President, through our own efforts, and with massive support from the United Nations and its agencies  like UNESCO, and from the international community in general, Africa is overcoming that difficult era of its history,  the post-colonial period, which is coming to an end. Indeed, Africa is determined to face its problems squarely, using  the time-tested strategies of democracy to promote good governance and the rule of law. Already the United Nations,  including the G8, has welcomed the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) as a credible basis for  Africa’s cooperation with the rest of the world. NEPAD, as you know, is the development framework within which  African nations have pledged to cooperate with one another and with the rest of the world to end years of political  instability and economic stagnation. One distinguishing feature of NEPAD is the peer review mechanism. It encourages  African leaders and their nations to commit themselves to good governance and constitutional democracy and to ensure  accountability of governance to the governed. Like many African countries, my country Ghana is still going through the  full cycle of political maturation, with its attendant problems. Ghana assumed independent nationhood in 1957 as a  constitutional democracy. Unfortunately, in less than a decade democracy was subverted through the imposition of a  one-party state, which led to governance being disrupted in 1966. For 25 of the next 30 years, the nation was subjugated  by one military dictatorship after another without referring to any valid constitution. Sadly, in terms of the rule of law,  respect for human rights, economic management and the general well-being of society, those military regimes, which  assumed names like Redemption or Provisional, among others, turned out to be worse than the civilian regimes they had  deposed. By 1990, with the strong wind of change that was blowing around the world after the collapse of the eastern  bloc, the people of Ghana began to stir and to ask for a return to constitutional and democratic governance. This was  attained by the promulgation of the Fourth Republican Constitution in 1992. Since then, there have been four successful  democratic elections with all the trends showing that the good people of Ghana are determined to stay the course and  uphold this democratic culture. This is how my party and government came to be elected for a first term of four years  under my presidency in December 2000, and to be re-elected for a second term in the year 2004. In line with our long- standing commitment to democratic governance underpinned by the rule of law, my government has focused priority  attention on stabilizing the macro-economy, developing infrastructure, modernizing agriculture through science and  technology, providing enhanced social services with particular attention to education and health delivery, developing  the private sector to become the main agency for accelerating economic growth, and promoting good governance in all  fields of national endeavour to engender and sustain a harmonious and stable society. The combined effects of these  priorities have been tolerance in the nation, more accountability and transparency in governance, and the strengthening  of the various administrative and legal institutions of state.
10.7 These developments in turn are engendering renewed public confidence in Ghana itself and in the state  institutions and a general sense of well-being. The people rightly expect and are working towards accelerated economic  growth and wealth creation. Indeed, Ghana is now perceived by its people and internationally as a haven of peace and
14  security. To many an observer, the re-election of my government for a second term of office was a vindication of the  inherent strength of democratic governance in building a just, prosperous and humane society. Open governance and the  responsible way in which the governments have tackled the endemic socio-economic challenges that beset our society  have helped in rallying the people. As a result, they are supporting the government in pursuing difficult policies like the  adoption of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, the deregulation of the petroleum sector, the  promotion and development of the private sector, and the adoption of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy, which  have begun to yield substantial dividends. Last year, Ghana reached the HIPC completion point in record time, two and  a half years after adopting the initiative. This led the Paris Club of official creditors to immediately forgive Ghana debts  to the tune of $2 billion. A further $2 billion was forgiven on an instalment basis of $100 million a year over the next
20 years.
10.8 Again, Ghana is one of the 18 countries that have been selected by the G8 to be forgiven the total debts they  owe to the multilateral agencies like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This will benefit  Ghana to the tune of over $4 billion, and the funds saved from these cancellations are committed to be invested in  poverty-reduction and wealth-creation programmes throughout the country. Yet again, Ghana is one of six countries out  of 62 worldwide that have qualified to access the first tranche of the United States’ Millennium Challenge Account.  The country stands to gain about $300 million for modernization of agriculture and promotion of agro-based industries.  To derive maximum benefits from these positive developments, my government is focusing on investment in the top  three priorities of human resource development, private sector development and continued good governance. It is  envisaged that successful implementation of these priorities, which happily coincide with those of UNESCO, will  provide the best route to accelerated growth and bring the country closer to the targets of the Millennium Development  Goals.
10.9 Mr President, the foundation of our human resource development programme is in the restructured  educational system. Our reform system exploits the collective wisdom and experience of UNESCO, and falls within the  wider context of education for all (EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals of the United Nations system. The  national constitution of Ghana entrenches a state policy of free and compulsory universal basic education for all  children. My government is initiating implementation of this policy from this year. Consequently, all children of Ghana  aged between 4 and 16 years will now be kept in school to ensure that, regardless of their socio-economic backgrounds,  they will all be given equal opportunities, starting from early childhood. This development should serve not only in the  long term to expand and enrich the human resource base of the country, but also to effectively check the sad  phenomenon of street children and rampant child abuse.
10.10 It is impossible to expand education without trained teaching personnel. Thus the new policy’s focus is on  the supply of quality teachers in requisite numbers, and, at this juncture, I must acknowledge the assistance that Ghana  is receiving from UNESCO in the area of capacity-building to support education delivery. The University of Cape  Coast, one of the nation’s public universities, which has the prime aim of training high-level teachers as well as  specialists in science education, was established with the help of UNESCO. Further, UNESCO has helped to start a  distance-learning programme at another public tertiary institution in Winneba to enable teachers to upgrade their skills  without leaving the classroom. I wish to acknowledge that these projects were undertaken in collaboration with the  UNESCO International Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa, Addis Ababa (Ethiopia). Additionally, my  government, on its own initiative, is refurbishing all 38 teacher-training institutions in the country. Fifteen of them are  being developed into specialist training colleges for science, mathematics and technical education. This should improve  the teacher-student ratio to take account of the population explosion which the country is facing.
10.11 Concurrently, my government is vigorously deploying information and communication technology (ICT) to  interconnect the entire educational system and indeed the entire socio-economy of the country. Consequently, the  economy is already beginning to enjoy benefits from the outsourcing of the data industry, from the advanced parts of  the world like the United States. But to keep pace with the rapidly changing developments in this area, Ghana supports  the international call for bridging the digital divide between the advanced and developing worlds.
10.12 Ladies and gentlemen, the major hallmarks of globalization are information, multiculturalism,  multilingualism and the ICT revolution. The many cultures of the world are being rejuvenated and enriched through  heightened cross-cultural intercourse. The peoples of the world are absorbing more and more from each other in terms  of tastes, ideas, fashions, the arts and music, dance and sports, all of which UNESCO has classified as the “knowledge  society”. In this respect, I must once again commend UNESCO for its contribution towards the promotion of rural  broadcasting and the establishment of a private newspaper in Ghana during a difficult period, now political history. This  assistance helped to break what has come to be called the “culture of silence”, which had traumatized the nation during  the despotic period preceding the adoption of the 1992 liberal constitution. Democratic governance is helping to tone  down the strident biases among the various ethnic, religious and political groups within Ghana’s body politic, and this is  to the benefit of the greater good of the nation. Replicated throughout the world under the guidance of UNESCO, this  trend will shape the global village into a place of harmony and peaceful coexistence.
10.13 However, Mr President, whether culturally or linguistically different, whether we belong to the advanced or  developing nations, in the end, all mankind is one, with a common need for basic items such as food, clothing and  shelter in addition to personal security. Our common humanity has manifested itself again and again, especially in times  of stress and trauma. The world was shocked at the magnitude of the destruction caused by the tsunami just before the  New Year. The horror wrought by hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the United States of all places last month, is  incredible, and exposes the frailty of mankind. There have been other natural disasters which might not have come to  global attention, but whose impact on their victims must have been equally devastating. As we meet here – I am glad I  am here, with Her Excellency the President of Sri Lanka – our hearts must go to the victims of all these natural  disasters. In the meantime, the world must draw lessons from such catastrophic natural occurrences and observe  adequate environmental protection practices to minimize the effects in the future. Science and technology must be  harnessed to a greater and deeper extent to anticipate and contain such events.
10.14 Ladies and gentlemen, while humanity may not be able to overcome natural disasters, it must be able to curb  intolerance and terrorism considerably. This menace is arrogant and does not show discrimination between the innocent  and the perceived offender. Its cost to affected countries and families is incalculable. The world must not stop rallying  together against this scourge, finding ways and means to eradicate it. Cross-border crimes like drug pushing, money  laundering, human trafficking and arms peddling, to name but a few, are other crimes which are steadily undermining  the peace and security of the world, putting humanity at risk. But, Mr President, solutions to the problems I have  enumerated are beyond the capability of any single nation, or indeed any block of nations. They are global problems  which deserve concerted global commitment, resources and action. The United Nations system and its agencies like  UNESCO have been able to contain and localize various conflicts around the world in order to avert another world war.  These same organs should be capable of organizing and leading the world in handling the monumental problems that  confront it. In line with this, Mr President, as we mark the 60th anniversary of the United Nations system, and look  forward to UNESCO’s 60th anniversary, I call on all Member States to pledge their unflinching support to these bodies  as they grapple with the challenges of the millennium.
10.15 Finally, Ghana commends the Director-General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, and his able staff as well as the  Executive Board of this important Organization for the good work they are doing to improve the general welfare of  mankind, especially the poor of the world. Ghana further acknowledges their contribution towards the promotion of  international understanding and global peace.
10.16 Mr President, I am very grateful for this opportunity to address this august conference and I thank the  Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board for their kind invitation. I also thank the distinguished  audience for their attention and wish the Conference successful deliberation. Thank you.
11.1 The President:   Thank you very much, Mr President, for your very positive message. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all  the countries represented in this room, I would like to extend my warmest gratitude and appreciation to our eminent  guests. Their presence and their words here today remind us that tolerance and dialogue among peoples and nations are  an essential key on the way to democracy and peace. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to please remain  seated while we take leave of our distinguished guests.   The meeting is suspended for a few minutes while the president of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   and the President of the Republic of Ghana are escorted from the room.
11.2 Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Ministers, heads of delegations, Excellencies, I will now proceed with the  adjournment of this meeting, but before I do so I would like to remind you that we shall reconvene for the plenary at
3 p.m. this afternoon, and on that occasion we shall listen to the presentation of the report of the Youth Forum that took  place this weekend. As you know, UNESCO is keenly interested in integrating youth into its General Conference. After  that report we shall continue with normal business, beginning with the consideration and adoption of our agenda. So,  until three o’clock, ladies and gentlemen, please have a very pleasant afternoon. I now declare the meeting adjourned.    The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 05  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.05  Заседание закрывается в 13.05  א א١,٠٥א   会议于 13 时 05 分结束