442  Report of Commission III: resolutions and recommendations  Rapport de la Commission III : résolutions et recommandations  Informe de la Comisión III: Resoluciones y recomendaciones  Доклад Комиссии III: резолюции и рекомендации  א א:א א א א   第 III 委员会的报告：决议和建议   :א ١ א א א.א א א ،.א א א ، א ، א א א א א א ،.א א א א א א א א א.א א.א ، א.א א.א א ، א א.א ، א א ،  .א
(1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. I declare open today’s afternoon meeting. Your  Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, as you know this meeting is dedicated to the reports of Commission III and the  Administrative Commission. I do not want to repeat what I said this morning, but I will just remind you that the  Chairperson of the Commission will present his report with the resolutions for adoption in the plenary meeting. This will  happen directly after the report has been concluded. Now, if you have any comments concerning form or wording, please  submit them in writing. I hope that is clear to everybody. I would now like to welcome the honourable Chairperson of  Commission III and give him the floor. Mr Oszlanyi, Chairperson of Commission III, you have the floor.
2.1 Mr Oszlanyi (Slovakia) (Chairperson of Commission III):  Thank you. Mr President, Mr Director-General, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present the results of Commission III to this honourable assembly.  First of all, let me thank the members of the Bureau of Commission III for their valuable contribution to bringing our  work to a successful term: our Rapporteur, Mr Jude Mathooko from Kenya, and our Vice-Chairpersons, Mr Gene  Whitney from the United States of America, Mr Fernando Lema from Uruguay, Mr Seyed Mohammad Tavakol Kosari  from the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Ms Fatima Abd El Mahmoud from Sudan. As is customary, the Commission  began with a statement on behalf of the Chairpersons of UNESCO’s six scientific programmes: the International Basic  Sciences Programme (IBSP), the International Geoscience Programme (IGCP), the International Hydrological  Programme (IHP), the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), the Man and the Biosphere Programme  (MAB), and the Management of Social Transformations Programme (MOST). The statement, which is annexed to the  written report, was pronounced this time by Professor Herwig Schopper, Chairperson of IBSP.
2.2 As you are aware, Commission III covers UNESCO’s activities in the natural sciences and in the social and  human sciences. The work of the Commission was therefore organized around the following three parts: issues relating  to Major Programme III – Social and Human Sciences; the preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-
2013 and of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 jointly for both Major Programmes; and finally, issues  relating to Major Programme II – Natural Sciences. It is following this structure that the written report presents the  recommendations made by the Commission to the plenary on each item. I will therefore follow the same order to  present the debates of our Commission.
2.3 Ladies and gentlemen, let me now move to our debates on the social and human sciences, starting with  item 4.2 on the Draft Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 for Major Programme III. The Director of the Bureau of  Strategic Planning, Mr Hans D’Orville, gave a general overview of document 33 C/5 and relevant documents,  highlighting the efforts undertaken by the Secretariat in terms of decentralization, prioritization, intersectoral  cooperation and fund-raising. The agenda item was introduced by the representative of the Director-General, Mr Pierre  Sané, Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences, who presented the major results achieved by the  Sector throughout the current biennium in the areas of ethics of science, human security, philosophy and philosophical  dialogue among peoples, human rights, gender equality and the struggle against discrimination, the management of  social transformations and the eradication of poverty. These outcomes will constitute the basis for future action in the  framework of document 33 C/5. In the ensuing debate, delegates reaffirmed the importance they attach to Major  Programme III. Being confronted with the rapid and complex process of social transformations, the role of social and  human sciences is crucial for Member States and their societies in creating a better understanding of the world and in  ensuring that public policies fully respect human dignity. Several delegates expressed their concern regarding the  limited budget allocated to the Sector, which would affect the sound and effective implementation of its programme. In  this connection, the members of Commission III also expressed their concern regarding the tendency, manifested all  over the world in both developing and developed countries, to reduce funding for social sciences in general. It was  emphasized that UNESCO could assume a greater role as a “network of networks” and, in this regard, cooperation with  other United Nations agencies as well as with national and regional research institutions should be encouraged and
443  further developed. UNESCO must pay due attention to the need to strengthen social science research and training as  well as to encourage greater participation of youth and women and to increase the involvement of vulnerable groups.  Member States endorsed the ethics of science and technology, with the emphasis on bioethics, as the principal priority  for the sector in the Programme and Budget for 2006-2007. They congratulated UNESCO for its work in this domain,  and for taking the lead within the United Nations system by serving as a privileged forum where urgent bioethical issues  are efficiently and effectively addressed. Many speakers echoed the representative of the Director-General, who stated  that priority should now be given to the dissemination and integration of existing normative instruments into national  contexts. Technical assistance in building the necessary capacities, for instance in the field of education or in order to  set up specialized national committees, should now be further developed. Some speakers called for the role of the  World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST) to be reinforced in the field of  ethics of science and technology. At the same time, the need for COMEST to increase cooperation with all relevant  stakeholders in order to avoid duplication was emphasized.
2.4 Dear colleagues, many delegates noted the crucial role of philosophy in creating better mutual understanding  between peoples, in promoting universal values such as tolerance, human rights, peace and social justice, in preventing  racism and xenophobia and in combating re-emerging fundamentalism. Several speakers stressed the need for  increasing intersectoral cooperation in the implementation of the relevant strategy adopted by the Executive Board, not  only within the UNESCO Secretariat, but also through the National Commissions for UNESCO, the Associated Schools  network and, in general, the academic community. It was underlined that activities in the field should be organized so as  to promote a philosophical approach and manner of thinking everyday life. The human security programme received  support from several Member States, who shared the view that humanity today is confronted with new forms of  transnational threats to human security. The Sector should assist Member States in sharing knowledge and in  developing policies for better management of the environment and of social change in regard to human security.  UNESCO, with its global mandate, needs to cooperate closely with existing regional institutions in order to take stock  of knowledge produced in that field. With respect to democracy, the Sector has a vital role to play in bolstering  democratization, democratic practices and good governance. It can contribute to fostering peace and development in  fragile areas of the world, especially in post-conflict countries.
2.5 Many Member States reiterated the importance of human rights activities in UNESCO, including education  and information in this field, and supported the integration of a human rights-based approach into its programmes. With  regard to human rights research, several delegates emphasized that UNESCO should not play the role of a research  institute, but should encourage and facilitate research in this area, preferably through existing institutes and networks,  such as the UNESCO Chairs. The importance of the rule of law in the promotion of respect for human rights was  emphasized and it was underlined that research in this area should be practice-oriented and aimed at informing policy- makers. The contribution of women to ensuring democratic governance, sustainable development and poverty reduction  was underlined. Gender mainstreaming in all actions should be reinforced. Some countries appreciated projects relating  to cities, in particular the creation of an international coalition of cities against racism, because of their important  contribution to building new partnerships with other levels of government, raising awareness, building momentum and  developing local capacities for the struggle against racism and all forms of discrimination.
2.6 Dear colleagues, a key contribution to sustainable human development is made by the social sciences  programme. The main mechanism of UNESCO in this regard is the MOST Programme, which serves as a global forum  for the scientific community. The recent evaluation of MOST produced a series of recommendations on the new  orientation of the Programme and this momentum should be closely followed up. Many speakers agreed on the need to  improve the relevance and use of research in social development policies and practice, in particular in areas relating to  international migration and urban sustainable development. As for the cross-cutting theme on the eradication of poverty,  especially extreme poverty, several delegates called for a more concrete and visible UNESCO contribution to achieving  the Millennium Development Goals.
2.7 Ladies and gentlemen, Commission III also examined four agenda items referred to it by the General  Conference under Major Programme III on Social and Human Sciences. Item 5.11 concerned the proclamation of a  world philosophy day. Many speakers echoed the representative of the Director-General in recalling the success of  Philosophy Day which, since its creation in 2002, has given rise to a series of events organized in various countries  through the National Commissions for UNESCO. While concerns were expressed with regard to the already inflated  number of international days, years and decades, the Commission supported the proposal to proclaim a world  philosophy day, which would extend the celebration to all Member States of the United Nations and its agencies.
2.8 Under item 5.4 concerning the celebration of an international year of global consciousness and the ethics of  dialogue among peoples, a large number of countries welcomed the Director-General’s proposal to pursue activities  aimed at nurturing dialogue and increasing mutual understanding and tolerance among peoples of different cultural and  professional backgrounds in a world confronted with tremendous challenges to its security. Several speakers  commended UNESCO’s contribution to conflict prevention by promoting dialogue among peoples through a better  reciprocal knowledge of cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious diversity. Particular emphasis was placed by some
444  speakers on the right of minorities and indigenous peoples to participate in the dialogue, as well as on the full and equal  participation of women and youth.
2.9 Distinguished delegates, it was by acclamation that the Commission decided to recommend to the General  Conference that it adopt the resolution pertaining to item 8.2 and the universal declaration on bioethics and human  rights annexed thereto. In view of the rapid developments in science and technology, the universal declaration was  welcomed as a meaningful and timely instrument. Many States considered the universal declaration as a milestone in  international standard-setting in bioethics and stressed that this declaration should be treated as a whole with existing  UNESCO declarations in this field. Some considered the universal declaration not as an end in itself, but as a first step  towards the definition of a universal ethical framework for sciences. Many States noted with satisfaction the transparent,  consultative and participatory process followed, which had led to a consensual text, and acknowledged the common  effort made by the Secretariat and Member States. Although some Member States regretted that the issue of  reproductive health was not given sufficient consideration in the text, others highlighted the innovative character of the  declaration, which places bioethics within a context of reflection that is open to the political and social world,  particularly the articles on social responsibility and benefit-sharing. The importance of Articles 26 and 27 concerning  the complementarity of the principles set forth in the declaration and the limitations on their application was also  stressed. While expressing their full support for the adoption of the declaration, a certain number of States also wished  to clarify their interpretation of specific articles, in particular Articles 2(iii), 4, 6 and 7, in the light of their domestic law.  The statements on the interpretation of specific provisions of the universal declaration are included as Annex II to the  written report. Finally, allow me to express my particular gratitude to the International Bioethics Committee (IBC) and  its Chairperson, Ms Michèle Jean, to the Intergovernmental Bioethics Committee (IGBC) and its Chairperson,  Ms Cinzia Caporale, to Mr Pablo Sader from Uruguay, who chaired the intergovernmental meeting of experts, to  Mr Justice Michael Kirby, Chairperson of the IBC Drafting Group, for their invaluable work throughout the elaboration  of the declaration.
2.10 Item 5.28 concerned the report by the Director-General on the advisability of elaborating an international  declaration on science ethics to serve as a basis for an ethical code of conduct for scientists. Some Member States  welcomed the proposal to undertake a feasibility study for an international declaration in line with the already existing  declarations on bioethics, the main purpose of which would be to increase the awareness of scientists, decision-makers  and the general public regarding ethical issues raised by scientific developments. On the contrary, others expressed  strong reservations, questioning the pertinence of UNESCO engaging itself once again in a standard-setting exercise  when efforts should be focused on the implementation of the existing instruments in this field. Confronted with  divergent opinions, it was following a vote that the Commission decided to recommend that the General Conference  adopt the relevant resolution, which is included in our written report. And the United States of America formally  reiterated their objection to the adoption of this resolution. I should also mention that the representative of the Director- General echoed on several occasions the position of the Director-General in this respect, as expressed once again in his  response to the general policy debate last week. Confirming his preference for a “standard-setting pause”, the Director- General considered that in view of the complexity of the issue, a consensual position would be required before the  Organization undertook a feasibility study: engaging in such an exercise in the absence of consensus could seriously  undermine the quality of the end result and thus the visibility of the Organization. Acknowledging nevertheless the call  by developing countries for the development of principles to guide scientific research, the Director-General expressed  the readiness of UNESCO to work with Member States and their relevant institutions, as well as with regional  organizations, towards setting up principles and guidelines for scientific conduct.
2.11 Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to our debate on items 3.2 and 3.1 concerning documents 34 C/4 and
34 C/5. The discussions under these items pertained to both Major Programmes, namely social and human sciences and  natural sciences. Starting with item 3.2 on the preparation of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013, the  representative of the Director-General recalled that the observations made by delegations could serve as an input to the  consultative process for the preparation of document 34 C/4, which will begin next year. The opportunity to have a  preliminary exchange on the orientations of the future Medium-Term Strategy was unanimously welcomed. Some  delegations noted that such an exchange was taking place at an appropriate moment, because options for future  directions would also be determined by the outcomes of the recent United Nations World Summit. Science, technology  and innovation are keys to economic growth, to development and ultimately to poverty eradication, with the social and  human sciences providing the ethical, social and cultural context.
2.12 The cross-sectoral nature of many UNESCO programmes, such as sustainable human development, science  education, science ethics and bioethics, climate change, natural disaster prevention and preparedness, and small islands  developing States, was underlined. A large number of delegations called for an increased level of interdisciplinarity in  the design and implementation of UNESCO’s programmes, as multidisciplinarity constitutes one of the Organization’s  main comparative advantages.
2.13 Dear colleagues, the debate on item 3.2 is extensively covered in the narrative part of our written report. I  therefore invite you to refer to this report for more details. However, I wish to add some words on the proposal for an  overall review of Major Programmes II (Natural Sciences) and III (Social and Human Sciences) initially submitted by
445  several Member States under the 33 C/5 debate and therefore examined by the Commission under item 3.2. This review  should be undertaken by a team of scientific experts from all regions, in an inclusive manner and in partnership with the  Secretariat. This review will be aimed at assessing “UNESCO’s role in the global science community … as well as  reflect on the interface between the social and human sciences and the natural sciences”, which should form an integral  part of and contribute to programme planning. Following consultations with the Director-General and his representative  about the source of funding for this review, it was indicated that an amount of $120,000 could be redeployed within the  Organization’s proposed evaluation plan, but that additional extrabudgetary resources would be required. The  representative of the Director-General also recalled the Director-General’s readiness to undertake this overall evaluation  on the two science-related sectors. The Director-General plans to establish a working group chaired by the Deputy  Director-General, composed of senior representatives of the Secretariat and external experts, to draft a report which will  be submitted to the Executive Board.
2.14 Ladies and gentlemen, item 3.1 “Preparation of the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009 (34 C/5)”, is  also covered in the narrative part of the written report. Permit me, therefore, to give you only a brief overview of this  debate. The 2008-2009 Programme and Budget (document 34 C/5) would constitute the first biennium of the next  Medium-Term Strategy, and would therefore need to be prepared within the overall strategic framework provided by  document 34 C/4. Speakers supported the continued emphasis on programme concentration and on results-based  management in document 34 C/5. In this context, many delegations called for a continued refinement of the quality of  the results formulation and of both qualitative and quantitative performance indicators, and for the establishment of  baselines and targets against which progress could be measured over a given period of time. Support was expressed for  maintaining the current principal priorities (“water and associated eco-systems” for Major Programme II and “ethics of  science and technology, with emphasis on bioethics” for Major Programme III) in document 34 C/5. Some delegations  pointed to the need for a holistic perspective, whereby all priorities would need to be mutually supportive and contribute  to the overall objectives of UNESCO.
2.15 Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to our debates on document 33 C/5 covering Major Programme II –  Natural Sciences – for the period 2006-2007. In his introduction to this item, Mr Walter Erdelen, Assistant Director- General for Natural Sciences, reported that the programme for the coming biennium had been drafted with the intention  of increasing programme concentration for greater efficiency, in the context of a $2 million cut to the budget of the  Natural Sciences Sector in 2006-2007 over the current biennium. Programme concentration had resulted, inter alia, in  increasing resources allocated to the principal priority – water and associated eco-systems – and in the merger of two  divisions into the Division of Ecological and Earth Sciences. More active solicitation of extrabudgetary resources and  reinforced cooperation with NEPAD were among other aspects of UNESCO’s strategy for natural sciences for 2006-
2007. The next two years will include a special emphasis on water management; greater cooperation between the  International Geoscience Programme (IGCP), the International Hydrological Programme (IHP) and the Programme on  Man and the Biosphere (MAB) regarding specific ecosystems; UNESCO’s contribution to the Global Earth Observation  System of Systems (GEOSS) and the implementation of a tsunami early warning system. Mr Erdelen also explained  that Africa would be a priority region for the International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP).
2.16 Numerous speakers voiced support for the four environmental programmes – the UNESCO  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), MAB, IGCP and IHP. They welcomed in particular “water and  associated eco-systems” as the continuing principal priority of the Natural Sciences Sector for 2006-2007 and praised  the overall execution of the freshwater activities of UNESCO, highlighting the broad action of IHP, of the UNESCO- led World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) and the capacity-building capabilities of the UNESCO-IHE  Institute for Water Education. Bearing in mind the water-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), delegates  felt that the freshwater programme had a central role to play in producing policy-relevant water-science and water- management approaches.
2.17 There was unanimous support for draft subprogramme II.1.2: Ecological and earth sciences for sustainable  development. Given the continuation of the water and associated eco-systems principal priority, greater emphasis on the  eco-system aspects of this priority theme was called for. Several delegates stressed the importance of research and  capacity-building in ecological sciences. They also requested a higher profile for biosphere reserves, in particular as  “learning sites” in the context of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014).  The decade was considered most timely for the key role it would play in changing attitudes to environmental protection.  Several countries stressed the need to further develop the earth sciences and to provide the necessary support, in  particular for IGCP, as UNESCO is the only United Nations specialized agency active in the field of geological sciences.  An overwhelming majority of speakers voiced concerns at increasing vulnerability to natural disasters. It was felt that  UNESCO’s programmes should further research in the geological, hydrological and environmental sciences to improve  prediction and early warning. Several countries complimented IOC for its role in leading the development of a tsunami  early warning system in the Indian Ocean as part of the completion of the climate module of the Global Ocean  Observing System (GOOS).
2.18 Turning now to the fifth scientific programme, many speakers commended UNESCO for the new  International Basic Sciences Programme (IBSP). Stressing the importance of basic sciences for endogenous
446  development and the need to revitalize both basic sciences and science education, Member States expressed satisfaction  at the priority given to Africa in this Programme. Member States spoke of a worrying trend of falling student enrolment  in science and engineering disciplines. In their view, this disaffection for science emphasized the need to pay greater  attention to quality education, and to foster science education for girls and women. Speakers underscored the  responsibility falling to all five scientific programmes to provide the basic scientific information for understanding  global change and for its incorporation into policy-making.
2.19 The carry-over of synergies between peace and development into 33 C/5 was welcomed by several African  delegates, who considered this approach to be exemplified in such areas as renewable energies, sustainable development  and a culture of maintenance, which could help to reach the MDGs. Indeed, science and technology were recognized as  being essential for poverty alleviation. This had been emphasized in several recent reports, speakers noted, including  that of the United Nations Millennium Project and its Task Force on Science, Technology and Innovation. Several  countries acknowledged the assistance provided by UNESCO in formulating national science and technology policies  and requested further assistance. Speakers stressed the importance of harnessing science and technology for  development, of promoting university-industry partnerships and of fostering innovation. African countries called upon  UNESCO to conduct a baseline study on the state of science and technology policies and their implementation in sub- Saharan countries.
2.20 The 17 Pacific Member States endorsed the ongoing focus on freshwater, disaster preparedness, climate  change studies and on developing a science culture in the island States. They stressed the vulnerability of coastal and  small island developing environments and communities, and requested UNESCO’s support for national efforts in  institution-building and hazard-monitoring.
2.21 In his reply to the debate, Mr Erdelen noted the clear endorsement of the principal priority and outlined  several major initiatives in this domain. He informed delegates that, within the strategy for improving water  management and water-related disaster mitigation, the Secretariat was instituting measures such as the International  Flood Initiative/Programme (IFI/P) and lending assistance to the creation of thematic centres under the auspices of  UNESCO. Stressing that renewable sources of energy constituted a priority strategy of UNESCO for meeting the  MDGs, Mr Erdelen welcomed the recommendations of delegates to reinforce this part of UNESCO’s programme. In  response to general concerns about the strength of UNESCO’s commitment to capacity of building on the African  continent, Mr Erdelen reported that the second African Ministerial Conference on Science and Technology had just  decided, on 30 September, that NEPAD would establish a high-level working group involving the African Union,  NEPAD and UNESCO, to prepare a comprehensive programme for establishing and funding centres of excellence on  the African continent. He also assured concerned delegates that he would convey to the Director-General their express  wish to see the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Science in Europe retain its existing geographical scope and primary  function as a science office directed by a scientist.
2.22 Ladies and gentlemen, I now wish to report briefly on the remaining 11 items on our agenda. Item 5.6  concerned the strategy for establishing a global tsunami warning system. In the light of the devastating tsunami which  struck on 26 December 2004 and other natural disasters since, the Commission fully endorsed the establishment of a  tsunami early warning system which would also be part of a global operational multi-purpose detection and multi- hazard warning system. Consequently, the Commission welcomed the strategy that would set the system in place.
2.23 Items 5.9, 5.25 and 5.26 concerned the establishment of two scientific centres and one institute, respectively,  under the auspices of UNESCO, which were discussed in the course of a single debate: first was a regional centre for  biotechnology training and education in India; second, was a international centre of excellence in Venezuela under the  auspices of UNESCO; and third, the granting of the status of a regional institute under the auspices of UNESCO to the  Instituto de Matematica Pura e Aplicada (IMPA) in Brazil. The Commission fully endorsed the creation of the centres  and the granting of category 2 status to IMPA. With regard to the centre in India, Member States noted that there was  now a strong desire among nations to develop capacities in the utilization of biotechnology to address food insecurity;  several delegates felt that the centres and the institute would help to promote South-South cooperation. Consequently,  the Commission approved the establishment of a regional centre for biotechnology training and education in India, with  an amendment concerning the agreement between India and UNESCO. It also endorsed the creation of the centre in  Venezuela and approved in principle the granting of category 2 status to IMPA in Brazil.
2.24 Items 5.14 and 5.30 concerned the proclamation of 2007 as a United Nations international year of Planet  Earth and of 2009 as an international year of astronomy. These items were discussed jointly. The Commission threw its  support behind both years, which many speakers hoped would heighten awareness of the exciting ongoing discoveries  in astronomy and the crucial contribution made by earth sciences to sustainable development. Several countries  expressed their readiness to contribute to the success of both years. The Commission consequently invited the Director- General to support all efforts in favour of the proclamation of the years by the United Nations General Assembly.
2.25 Items 5.10, 5.16 and 5.32 concerned the establishment of water-related centres under the auspices of  UNESCO, which were discussed in the course of a single debate: firstly, an international centre for water hazard and  risk management (ICHARM) in Tsukuba, Japan; second, an IHP-HELP centre for water law, policy and science at the
447  University of Dundee, United Kingdom; and thirdly, a regional water centre for arid and semi-arid zones of Latin  America and the Caribbean, to be established in La Serena, Chile. The Commission expressed overwhelming support  for all three centres. Speakers highlighted the importance of water management for poverty alleviation, biodiversity  protection, risk assessment and sustainable development. The Commission fully endorsed the corresponding resolutions  concerning the establishment of the centres under the auspices of UNESCO.
2.26 In a similar manner, item 5.27 concerned the establishment of a European regional centre for ecohydrology in  Łódź, Poland, under the auspices of UNESCO. Unequivocal support was expressed for this centre. Noting that  ecohydrology was a new approach in environmental sciences that promoted the integration of hydrology and ecology  for the sustainable use of water resources, the Commission recommended the establishment of a European regional  centre for ecohydrology in Poland. Lastly, item 5.20 referred to the proposal for establishing a regional centre on urban  water management under the auspices of UNESCO in Colombia. The Commission considered that the proposed centre  reflected the need for new and cost-effective methods to improve the quality of water in the face of increasing pressure  on freshwater resources as a result of rapid population growth. The Commission therefore spoke in favour of the  creation of the centre in Colombia.
2.27 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this brings me to the conclusion of my oral report. I hope I have  succeeded in capturing some of the density and richness of our debates over the past week and in highlighting the  orientations provided by this Commission for the programmes on the natural sciences and social and human sciences.  Thank you very much for your attention.    :א ٣,١ א א א א א ، א א ، א א ، א א ، א א.א א ، .، א א א א א ، א א א.א א ، א ، א ، א ،.، א א א א א א א א٨,٢א .א א אא א א.א א א א א א א א א א א.، א  .א
(3.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Chairperson of Commission III, allow me to congratulate you, all the members of your  Commission and all the officials concerned for the excellent work that you have carried out. I know that the preparation  of this report was really not easy. So, your report is lengthy because it fully demonstrates your painstaking efforts. I  would like to say that, despite this, your outstanding and wise efforts and organization helped ensure that your work was  completed in the time allotted, with the drafting of the important resolutions in the field of interest to your Commission.  So, thank you very much and thank you to the members of the Commission, and the Bureau and the Secretariat which  made every effort to facilitate the accomplishment of your task, I congratulate you once again. Before I give the floor to  anyone wishing to make a remark or comments on the report and the resolutions therein, I would like to point out that  item 8.2 concerning the draft declaration on universal norms on bioethics will be examined separately. We will return to  it when we have finished with your comments and suggestions on the report and the resolutions. I now open the floor for  comments on the report and the resolutions therein, you now have the floor. The United States of America.  (The President continues in English)
3.2 United States of America, you have the floor, please.
4. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. May I just say, since this is my first time to intervene in plenary, what a great  personal pleasure it is for me to see you in the Chair, and may I congratulate you on your election. Mr President, I am  taking the floor at this time simply to request that we give separate consideration, as we adopt the report, to item 5.28.  Thank you.
5. The President:  Thank you very much. Please, you have the floor.
6. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you Mr President, if we are going to do that now. I just wanted to say that I listened very carefully to  the report of the distinguished Chairperson of Commission III on this item, and he seemed to indicate that there was a  fair degree of discord in the Commission over this particular issue as it came up. I also noted, in this connection, that the  distinguished Director-General, Mr Matsuura, in his reply to the general policy debate last week, commented on the  subject, and noted that in his view, it was a difficult subject to tackle, and that it would be necessary to reach a  consensus before the Organization could undertake a feasibility study. In addition, he went on to comment that it might
448  be time for a pause in standard-setting, that we were perhaps reaching the end of a cycle, and that our efforts should be  focused in other directions for a time. And so I wondered, in light of both of those statements, if it was still the wish of  this plenary body to go forward with the draft resolution as contained in paragraph 30 of the report, because – for my  delegation at least – it seems to me that we might perhaps want to take the time to try to find a better way that would  enjoy full consensus. Thank you Mr President.
7. The President:  Brazil, you have the floor.
8. Mr Dayrell de Lima (Brazil):  Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I certainly agree with the delegation of the United States that we  should consider item 5.28 separately. I can agree with the fact that this question does not have the same degree of  unanimity that other questions have. On the other hand, I also think that this plenary should not be concerned with only  rubber-stamping. I agree with that. It is not a new item under our consideration. It has been extensively examined in the  Executive Board. It has been extensively dealt with in Commission III, but even so, certain doubts and reticence remain.  Perhaps the terminology is not really the right terminology to use for the resolution. I certainly see room for certain  margin for improvement in the drafting of paragraph 8. We would therefore be amenable to a modification of the terms  of paragraph 8 of the resolution contained in paragraph 30 of the report. We would certainly take into account, with  some prudence, in a very democratic spirit, the comments of all interested parties, and we would like to see the  Secretariat preparing a substantive report for the next time we reconvene on this issue. Hearing all the parties interested  and taking account of the implied sectors – the scientific sectors – I hope that the attitude that has been expressed  regarding this item has been in relation to the idea that all people are accountable, and that even when one’s purpose is  the liberty of scientific research one should have an ethic of responsibility. But, in a spirit of compromise, and in a spirit  of really making the decisions of this plenary substantive ones – taking into account the concerns of all interested  parties – we could, and would, be amenable to changes to paragraph 8. We hope that in the next few days other  questions will be dealt with in the same spirit of openness, making our Rules of Procedure adhere to the spirit and the  letter of our Constitution and of our rules of play here, and so my delegation is amenable to changes to paragraph 8 in  the resolution under consideration in item 5.28. Thank you.   :א ٩,١ א א ، א  .א
(9.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Brazil. I give the floor to Canada.  (The President continues in English)
10. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Merci Monsieur le Président ; mon intervention porte précisément sur le point qui vient d’être abordé par le  représentant du Brésil et, avant lui, par le représentant des États-Unis. Nous partageons le même sentiment que ces deux  intervenants et nous voudrions contribuer à résoudre cette question en proposant d’apporter au paragraphe 8 du projet  de résolution un léger amendement qui pourrait permettre, je crois, de nous mettre tous d’accord sur le texte final de ce  paragraphe. À mon avis, ce qui pose problème c’est de demander une étude de faisabilité car une telle démarche, je  veux dire l’élaboration d’une étude de faisabilité, implique déjà une espèce de pleine intention ou quasi-intention de  passer à l’étape suivante. En conséquence, l’amendement que nous voulons proposer ici, Monsieur le Président,  consisterait à remplacer le mot « effectuer » par le mot « poursuivre » ; le texte se lirait donc comme suit : « Demande  au Directeur général de poursuivre, en coopération avec le Conseil international pour la science et la COMEST, la  réflexion sur ce sujet et de soumettre un rapport au Conseil exécutif à sa 175e session », c’est-à-dire dans un an.  Monsieur le Président, je pense que cette modification répondra au vœu exprimé par le représentant du Brésil de  continuer à étudier cette très importante question sans pour autant nous engager au stade actuel dans un processus  amenant à jeter les bases d’un code de conduite. Nous aviserons dans un an au sein du Conseil exécutif. Il sera toujours  temps, soit de poursuivre l’étude, soit de s’engager dans une démarche plus concrète. Il existe nombre de travaux et  d’études préliminaires dans ce domaine. Beaucoup d’organisations se sont déjà penchées sur ces questions et les clubs  scientifiques sont légion dans maints pays. Certains répertoires nous offrent un outillage formidable. Je pense que nous  gagnerions à nous initier à ces outils pendant un an avec l’appui de l’UNESCO afin d’en prendre la mesure et de nous  informer pleinement sur ces questions. Nous serons ainsi en mesure, dans un an, de déterminer au sein du Conseil  exécutif ce qu’il convient de faire par la suite. Merci beaucoup.   :א ١١ א א،  .א
(11) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Canada. Japan has the floor.
12. Mr Imasato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. Having heard the Chair’s report on this issue, in particular his comment about the  Director-General’s view that consensus is essential to proceed to the stage of elaborating the international instrument,  and also having heard the previous speaker, who stressed the necessity of the report on this subject, the amendment  proposed by the distinguished colleague from Canada seems to us quite reasonable. But I have a slight concern about  his language: reflection on the international declaration. I would like, through you, Mr President, to ask the Secretariat  or the Legal Adviser whether it means proceeding to the stage of preparing an international instrument or not. Thank  you very much.   :א ١٣,١  .א:א..א
(13.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Before I move on to do as you asked, I will give the floor to those who have asked for it:  Denmark.  (The President continues in English)
13.2 Denmark has the floor, please.
14. Mr Poulsen-Hansen (Denmark):  Thank you, Sir. We would like to say that we share the views put forward by the Canadian Ambassador here,  but I have the same reservation as my Japanese colleague, namely whether reflecting on an international declaration on  science means reflecting on the idea of having an international declaration on science. Maybe, as asked for by the  Japanese delegation, the Legal Adviser could clarify the matter for us. Thank you.   :א ١٥ א א א  .א
(15) The President (translation from the Arabic):  I will give the floor to Canada to reply to the comments.
16. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président, je répète le texte du projet d’amendement : « poursuivre, en coopération avec le  Conseil international pour la science et la COMEST, la réflexion sur ce sujet ». Je n’ai pas dit la réflexion sur une  déclaration. Et j’ai ajouté : « de soumettre un rapport au Conseil exécutif », le « sujet » étant précisé au paragraphe  précédent du projet de résolution. Il s’agit donc de l’ensemble de la question, non d’une déclaration ou de quoi que ce  soit d’autre. J’espère avoir par ces précisions répondu aux préoccupations exprimées.   :א ١٧,١ א.  .א
(17.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  And so you have. And now Belgium has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
17.2 Belgium, you have the floor, please.
18. M. Kridelka (Belgique) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite dire un mot sur cette question qui est importante pour mon pays :  vous savez que la Belgique a suivi avec attention les travaux de cette Commission et que le développement du dialogue  relatif à l’éthique entre nos scientifiques du Sud, du Nord, de l’Est et de l’Ouest est un élément important, de nature à  encourager leur coopération. Nous pensons également que le développement d’un dialogue concernant l’éthique  internationale dans différents domaines est une des missions importantes de l’UNESCO, une mission qui peut rendre  l’utilité de l’Organisation plus visible pour nos opinions publiques. Pour ces raisons, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais  apporter le plein appui de la Belgique à la proposition qu’a fait le Canada d’amender le paragraphe 8 du projet de  résolution figurant au paragraphe 30 du document 33 C/83. Merci.
19.1 Le Président :   Merci.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
19.2 Iceland, you have the floor.
20. Mr Einarsson (Iceland):  Thank you, Mr President. Well, this is an extremely important matter and one on which reflection would be  rather timely, of course. However, during the Board meeting, Iceland expressed its view that we should adopt a festina  lente approach in this case because it is an extremely complicated matter and has to be viewed from all different angles.  Therefore we welcome the suggestion made by Canada, especially after the last intervention, and totally support it,  especially in view of a positive consensus. Thank you very much.
21. The President:   Thank you very much. Saint Lucia.
22. Mme Lacoeuilhe (Sainte-Lucie) :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Monsieur le Président, je suis d’accord avec tous ceux qui m’ont précédée pour  dire que la question est complexe. Je souscris pleinement à l’approche préconisée par le Directeur général, à savoir tenir  les plus larges consultations possibles et essayer d’obtenir un consensus avant d’aller plus loin. Personnellement, je suis  prête à accepter l’amendement du Canada si son auteur peut m’expliquer ce qu’il entend par « ce sujet » lorsqu’il parle  de « poursuivre la réflexion sur ce sujet ». Si ce n’est pas sur la déclaration, sur quoi exactement doit-on poursuivre la  réflexion ? Et si l’on veut tenir de larges consultations, il est clair pour moi que la décision appartient à tous les États  membres et non pas seulement aux membres du Conseil exécutif. Il faut donc considérer que c’est la Conférence  générale, à sa prochaine session, qui devra décider s’il faut continuer ou non les travaux sur le sujet en question.  J’aimerais cependant qu’on m’explique ce que signifient exactement, dans ce paragraphe, les mots « poursuivre la  réflexion sur ce sujet ». Merci.   :א ٢٣ ، א  .א،
(23) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Canada, you are asked to comment, please.
24. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Oui, Monsieur le Président, il s’agit d’éviter de s’enliser dans des discussions sur la notion de déclaration. Le  sujet, c’est en réalité l’éthique scientifique. Une étude, une réflexion, des échanges, des consultations y seront  consacrés. Certains préconiseront d’aller vers une déclaration, d’autres réclameront de nouvelles études. Il y aura des  échanges d’idées de toutes sortes. Il s’agit de mener une réflexion sur la question de l’éthique scientifique, laquelle  aboutira dans un an à la soumission au Conseil exécutif d’un rapport qui exposera les résultats de cette réflexion et  proposera éventuellement des pistes pour continuer les travaux.
25. The President:   United States of America.
26. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you very much Mr President, and I want to thank all the delegates that have spoken so far for the spirit  of flexibility in the striving for consensus, particularly the delegations of Brazil, Saint Lucia, and all the delegations that  have spoken. I think basically we are there; with the last intervention by Canada, I think we have arrived at a formula  that certainly my delegation could support wholeheartedly. Thank you.
27. The President:  Thank you, United States. Mr Director-General, I shall now give you the floor.
28.1 The Director-General:  Thank you very much, Mr President. I am delighted and also encouraged by the emergence of a new  consensus on the new format proposed by Canada. I would like also to thank all delegations for making serious efforts  to create a new consensus. Thank you very much. I would like to remind the representative of Saint Lucia that there is  paragraph 9 inviting me to report to the General Conference at its next session. So the matter will definitely come back  to the General Conference at its 34th session.
28.2 If I may, now, Mr President, I would like to make a very, very small editorial suggestion with regard to the  phrase in paragraph 7 which reads “supporting UNESCO’s proposal”. May I propose to delete “UNESCO’s proposal”  and replace it by simply “a proposal”? I think it would be premature to say that there is a proposal by UNESCO. This is  a very minor suggestion. I would like to repeat now, Mr President, that I am very encouraged by the new consensus that  is emerging. I will definitely undertake to report to the Executive Board on this matter in one year’s time. Thank you.   :א ٢٩,١ א א א ، ،.א א א א א א ، א.א א א א.א א א ، א א.א .، א א א א  .א
(29.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Mr Director-General. I appreciate your comments, as you wisely do not want to force  UNESCO into this matter straightaway, but I cannot see anyone asking for the floor. It seems that the proposal by Canada  is acceptable to everyone. I see no objection, so I consider the proposal by Canada adopted. It is so decided. Thank you  very much to all those who spoke on this subject, you have made our work easier.
(29.2) I will now ask you all if you agree to adopt the report and the other resolutions therein. I see no objection, so I  take it that the General Conference has adopted the report with the resolutions contained in it. It is so decided.  Draft declaration on universal norms on bioethics  Projet de déclaration relative à des normes universelles en matière de bioéthique  Proyecto de declaración relativa a las normas universales sobre la bioética  Проект декларации о всеобщих нормах в биоэтике  א   关于生物伦理普遍准则的宣言草案   :א ٣٠,١ א ، א א א ، .א:٨,٢א א אא א.، א א "א א: א ".א א ، א א א ، א ، א ، א א א ، א ؟.אא א  א
(30.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  And now, dear colleagues, I would like to return to item 8.2: draft declaration on universal norms on bioethics.  I told you that this matter would be considered separately, as the Chairperson of the Commission indicated.  Commission III has asked the General Conference “to adopt this declaration by acclamation”. I will make the following  suggestion to you – if you want to adopt by acclamation, then I will wait for the applause, and if you want to vote, or if  one of you would prefer to vote, then we will do so. Do you prefer acclamation or voting?  (Applause)  א ٣٠,٢ א  ..א
(30.2) (translation from the Arabic) Argentina is asking for the floor after the applause. Please go ahead.
(31) Mr Sobrán (Argentina) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. The delegation of the Argentine Republic joins in this plenary meeting’s  acclamation and merely wishes briefly to make a semantic point regarding the Castilian, or Spanish, text of the  Declaration. Mr President, for the sole purposes of better understanding and coordination among the six official  languages, it must be pointed out that the translation from the English, the working language used by the group of  Spanish-speaking experts, shows full consistency between the English and French but a lack of consistency in the  Spanish in respect of Articles 9, 11 and 15(a). The delegation of Argentina does not wish to change the tenses of the  verbs, but merely to rewrite the sentences to ensure greater consistency with the French text and, in Article 15(a), to make  it clear that the benefits resulting from any scientific research and its applications should be shared with society as a  whole and within the international community, in particular with developing countries, that is “pays en développement”
452  as in the French text, and not “developed” as in the Spanish text now before us for adoption. With regard to Articles 9  and 11, the “no debería” would be moved to the end of the sentence. I can forward the two comments in Spanish to the  Secretariat in order to facilitate their work. The delegation of Argentina does not wish to set itself up as the guardian of  the language, it merely wishes to have adjustments made to the Declaration to ensure that it has the same standard-setting  weight for all States, in particular the 34 Spanish-speaking States. Thank you very much, Mr President.   :א ٣٢ ،א..א א ، ، א א.  .א.א
(32) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. We are waiting for your comments. Before I give the floor to the United States, I  would like to thank you, Mr Miller, for your statement and support for me. I now give you the floor. Thank you.
33. Mr Miller (United States of America):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, when this item was adopted in the Commission, my delegation made  a statement of explanation of position that is found printed on page 3 of annex II in document 33 C/83, and rather than  re-read that statement now, I would just ask that it be reprinted in its entirety in the records of this session. Thank you  very much.   :א ٣٤ א.א א  .א
(34) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. Now Uruguay has the floor.
(35) Mr Gros-Espiell (Uruguay) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. My statement, in addition to stressing that Uruguay also applauded the  adoption by acclamation of this Declaration on universal norms on bioethics, is being made in support of the point raised  by Argentina. A few days ago the delegation of Uruguay, together with the delegations of Spain and Mexico, pointed out  in writing various mistakes in the Spanish translation that, obviously, have still not been corrected in the text of the  document that has just been adopted. In addition to those adjustments – which we hope will be made so that the text in  Spanish, which is an official language, is perfectly consistent with the French and English texts, which were the texts  actually discussed throughout the drafting process – I should like to support the proposal just made by the delegation of  Argentina and request that the Secretariat take particular care of translations into Spanish, especially of verbs, because  there is a disparity between the English and French texts and the Spanish text. Thank you very much.   :א ٣٦ א.א ، א ، א א א א א א.א אא.، א א א.א  .א
(36) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. After the comments by States, I will give the floor to the Assistant to the Secretary of  the General Conference, who is Spanish, and he will explain why these errors showed up. I personally endorse what you  said, and we will take it into consideration. The Spanish language is beautiful like the other languages and warrants  attention. Germany now has the floor.
37. Mr Kordasch (Germany):  Thank you, Mr President. When the declaration was approved in Commission III, my delegation also made a  statement which is reproduced in the report of the Commission. As the United States delegation has just done, I would  like to ask the Secretariat to have this explanation of Germany’s position reproduced in the record of this meeting.  Thank you, Mr President.
(38) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, that will be done, and your explanation will be reflected in the record. And now Canada has the  floor.
39. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président, je souhaite formuler une demande strictement semblable à celle de l’Allemagne à  propos de la déclaration du Canada qui figure dans l’annexe II du document 33 C/83 : nous voudrions que celle-ci soit  reproduite dans le procès-verbal de ce débat.   :א ٤٠ א.א ، א א א.א א  .א
(40) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Like other, similar comments, it will be reflected in the records. I now give the floor to the  Netherlands.
41. Ms van Vucht Tijssen (Netherlands):  I will join our colleagues in asking for the statement of the Netherlands to be included in the records. Thank  you very much.   :א ٤٢,١  ..א،
(42.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, it will be. Belgium.  (The President continues in English)
43. M. Kridelka (Belgique) :  Merci Monsieur le Président. Comme les orateurs précédents, je voudrais vous demander que la déclaration  interprétative de la Belgique qui figure à l’annexe II du rapport de la Commission III soit également reproduite dans les  comptes rendus de nos débats. Je vous remercie.   :א ٤٤,١ א א ، ،  .א
(44.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, it will be, and now Japan.  (The President continues in English)
45. Mr Imasato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. Japan also requests the reproduction of our view in the records of this meeting.  Thank you.   :א ٤٦,١ א.א، א  .א
(46.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, it will be. And now the United Kingdom has the floor.  (The President continues in English)
46.2 United Kingdom.
47. Mr Boksenberg (United Kingdom):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make the same statement about inclusion of the views of the United  Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as they appear in Annex II to the written report. Thank you.
(48.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, they will be. So, we have concluded the noting of comments that will all be included in the  records. I now give the floor to the Assistant Secretary of the General Conference, Mr Salamanques, who will make some  clarifications about the Spanish language. This is the wisdom of the Director-General, that we have here a Spanish- speaking spokesperson at the appropriate time.  (The President continues in English)
48.2 You have the floor.
49. Le Secrétaire adjoint :  Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je souhaite simplement rassurer les délégations de l’Argentine et de  l’Uruguay : comme elles le savent probablement, les résolutions de la Conférence générale sont relues par un comité qui  se réunit après la clôture de la Conférence et qui les réexamine mot par mot dans les six langues de travail de la  Conférence, en prêtant bien entendu une attention particulière aux instruments normatifs. Nous serions de toute façon  reconnaissants à ces délégations de nous faire parvenir par écrit leurs suggestions quant à l’amélioration du texte  espagnol. En ce qui concerne les inquiétudes exprimées par certaines délégations au sujet de leurs déclarations  reproduites dans l’annexe II du document 33 C/83, je puis assurer à ces délégations que le rapport qui vient d’être  adopté sera bien entendu publié dans le volume 1 des Actes de la Conférence générale et que tous les comptes rendus  des séances plénières de la Conférence générale seront publiés in extenso dans le volume 2. Merci.   :א ٥٠ א.א א א א א א ، א א א א..א א א א א.א ، א  .א
(50) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I now consider the matter concluded, and I now repeat my thanks to you for your splendid  cooperation and for listening attentively to the Chairperson of Commission III. I would like to reiterate my gratitude to  him. I take it that we have completed the item on the report of Commission III. Thank you to the Chairperson, I wish you  every success.  Report of the Administrative Commission: resolutions and recommendations  Rapport de la Commission administrative : résolutions et recommandations  Informe de la Comisión Administrativa: resoluciones y recomendaciones  Доклад Комиссии по административным вопросам: резолюции и рекомендации  א א א:א א א א   行政委员会的报告：决议和建议   :א ٥١ ، ،.א א א א ، א א א א א א א א א א א א.٣٣/٨٠א ،..
(51) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Ladies and gentlemen. I would now like to give the floor to the honourable Minister, Dr Mohammed  Bedjaoui, Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, to present the Administrative Commission’s report as  contained in document 33 C/80. You have the floor, Your Excellency. Please go ahead.
52.1 M. Bedjaoui (Algérie) (Président de la Commission administrative) :  Monsieur le Président, mes chers collègues, c’est avec grand plaisir que je me présente aujourd’hui devant la  Conférence générale pour faire rapport sur les travaux de la Commission administrative que j’ai eu le grand privilège de  présider. Veuillez me permettre, tout d’abord, Monsieur le Président, de rendre hommage à tous nos collègues pour leur  participation active à nos débats et pour la grande qualité de leurs contributions. Je souhaiterais en particulier saluer  l’esprit de coopération et de mutuelle compréhension qui a prévalu au sein de la Commission tout au long de ses  travaux et qui nous a permis de parvenir à un consensus sur tous les projets de résolution qui vous sont recommandés  dans notre rapport écrit, distribué sous la cote 33 C/80.
52.2 Conformément à l’ordre du jour approuvé par la Conférence générale à sa première séance, 15 points ont été  examinés par la Commission, qui a tenu 11 séances pour ce faire, soit du 4 au 12 octobre 2005. Les points examinés ont
455  couvert principalement les questions relatives au budget et aux finances, à la mise en œuvre du processus de réforme, et  aux ressources humaines. Le rapport du Comité du Siège a également été présenté à la Commission. Par ailleurs, à la  demande du Bureau de la Conférence générale, la Commission a tenu une séance supplémentaire, le 13 octobre dernier,  afin d’entendre les cinq candidats pour la charge, ô combien importante, de commissaire aux comptes de l’Organisation.  Comme vous le savez, une réunion conjointe des Commissions de programme et de la Commission administrative sur le  point 4.2 « Examen et adoption du Projet de programme et de budget pour 2006-2007 » se tiendra demain, jeudi 20  octobre, afin de consolider les travaux des différentes commissions et de recommander à la Conférence générale le  projet de résolution révisé portant ouverture de crédits pour 2006-2007.
52.3 Je voudrais également vous rappeler que les résultats des travaux de la Commission administrative sur le  point 4.5 « Adoption du plafond budgétaire provisoire pour 2006-2007 » ont déjà été présentés et adoptés en séance  plénière, ici même.  En ce qui concerne le point 1.3 « Rapport du Directeur général sur la communications reçues des  États membres invoquant l’article IV.C, paragraphe 8(c) de l’Acte constitutif », le projet de résolution y relatif a  également été adopté par la Conférence générale. Je me fais un pressant devoir de vous préciser que la Commission a  vivement souhaité attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sur la procédure actuellement suivie à ce sujet. En effet,  la complexité et la sensibilité de la tâche effectuée par le Groupe de travail, ainsi que les difficultés qui découlent de la  procédure en vigueur à ce jour, ont fait l’objet d’une discussion au sein de la Commission. Celle-ci a ainsi exprimé le  vif souhait qu’à l’avenir d’autres mécanismes soient élaborés afin que ces questions puissent être réglées avant  l’ouverture de la session de la Conférence générale.
52.4 Avec votre accord, Monsieur le Président, je vais maintenant commencer ma présentation par le  point 4.1 « Méthodes de préparation du budget, prévisions budgétaires pour 2006-2007 et techniques budgétaires ». À la  demande de plusieurs États membres, la Commission a été informée des étapes de l’élaboration du Projet de programme  et de budget. Les divers mécanismes internes de négociation, de consultation et de contrôle qui permettent au Bureau du  budget de consolider les données en rapport avec les stratégies approuvées par la Conférence générale ont été également  présentés. Enfin, les États membres ont été informés que l’Organisation avait adopté la gestion axée sur les résultats  (Result-based Management - RBM) et qu’elle travaillait à la mise en œuvre de la budgétisation axée sur les résultats  (Result-based Budgeting - RBB). Monsieur le Président, la Commission a recommandé que la Conférence générale  adopte le projet de résolution contenu au paragraphe 7 du document 33 C/80.
52.5 J’en arrive maintenant au point le plus important de notre ordre du jour, le point 4.2 « Examen et adoption du  Projet de programme et de budget pour 2006-2007 ». Monsieur le Président, la Commission a examiné le Projet de  programme et de budget pour 2006-2007 lors de ses 4e, 5e, et 6e séances. Après un débat général sur cette question, la  Commission a décidé d’examiner un à un les titres du budget qui relèvent de son domaine de compétence, à savoir les  Titres I, II.A. (Hors Siège - Gestion des programmes décentralisés), III.A, III.C, III.D, et IV, ainsi que la réserve pour  les reclassements. Les projets de résolution recommandés par la Commission sur ces points figurent aux paragraphes 8  à 15 du document 33 C/80. Monsieur le Président, je tiens à vous rapporter que la Commission a exprimé sa satisfaction  quant à la qualité du 33 C/5. Elle a toutefois demandé, qu’à l’avenir, celui-ci soit simplifié et soit encore davantage axé  sur les résultats. Certaines délégations ont aussi exprimé le souhait que le Directeur général continue, au cours de  l’exécution du 33 C/5, à rechercher les moyens de renforcer les grands programmes. Le Directeur général pourrait  également rationaliser l’affectation de ressources financières aux services centraux et aux autres postes du budget qui ne  sont pas inclus dans le Titre II. Au sujet plus particulièrement du titre III.A. concernant le processus de décentralisation,  la Commission a été informée que les budgets de programme sont maintenant décentralisés à 60 %, pour tenir compte  des besoins exprimés au niveau national et refléter un équilibre entre les fonctions normatives du Siège et les activités  opérationnelles hors Siège. Enfin, des discussions plus spécifiques, portant notamment sur certains aspects juridiques,  ont eu lieu au sujet des dispositions qui pourraient régir les 25 millions de dollars des États-Unis provenant de  contributions volontaires. L'accent a été mis en particulier sur le fait que cet appel de fonds doit se faire à titre unique et  exceptionnel. En vertu de quoi, et afin de prendre en considération la résolution adoptée par le Conseil exécutif à sa
172e session, figurant dans le document 33 C/6 Add., la Commission a décidé d'ajouter une deuxième partie à la  résolution portant ouverture de crédits. Le projet de résolution amendé, que la Commission recommande à la  Conférence générale, figure au paragraphe 18 du document 33 C/80. Il est cependant entendu que les montants et le  texte figurant dans ce projet de résolution pourront être ajustés lors des débats de la réunion conjointe qui se tiendra  demain, comme je vous l’ai déjà indiqué au début de cette présentation.
52.6 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vais maintenant aborder le point 10.1 « Rapport du  Directeur général sur la mise en œuvre du processus de réforme », qui est divisé en trois parties : Politique du personnel,  nouveau style de gestion, décentralisation. En ce qui concerne la politique du personnel, le représentant du Directeur  général a évoqué devant la Commission les difficultés inhérentes au facteur humain (mentalités, comportements, etc.)  qui sont lentes à se résoudre concrètement. Il a souligné, par ailleurs, la pression ressentie par les membres du personnel,  amenés à « faire plus avec moins de moyens » dans un cadre général de compression des effectifs et du budget, et les  sentiments de frustration et d’insatisfaction que cela générait. Qualifiant la stratégie à moyen et long terme de  programme ambitieux, les membres de la Commission ont exprimé leur satisfaction de ce que cette stratégie  s’accompagne d'un plan d’action concret axé sur des résultats. Certains États membres ont noté les progrès accomplis  dans la gestion et les méthodes de travail. Des membres de la Commission se sont enquis de l’existence d’un
456  programme dit de « séparation négociée », tel que celui mis en place par le Secrétariat de l’Organisation des Nations  Unies. Sur ce point, le représentant du Directeur général a indiqué que de telles séparations se font dans l’intérêt de  l’Organisation, et, parfois, pour des raisons « humanitaires ». Toutefois, le coût de ces séparations est financé sur la  ligne budgétaire du poste libéré, lequel doit donc rester vacant pendant une durée qui est fonction des prestations de  départ versées.
52.7 Soulignant l’importance qu’ils accordent aux relations sociales au sein de l’UNESCO, certains membres de  la Commission se sont félicités de la concertation accrue et du dialogue soutenu qui existent désormais entre  l’Administration et les deux associations du personnel. Ils ont fait remarquer que des améliorations ont eu lieu, tant du  côté de l’Administration que du côté des Associations, s’agissant de maintenir un dialogue ouvert et constructif. Les  Membres de la Commission ont également tenu à reconnaître les apports du personnel de l’UNESCO et à exprimer à  celui-ci leur reconnaissance pour son dévouement et pour le travail accompli. Les deux associations du personnel se  sont également exprimées. Enfin, la Commission a recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte sur ce chapitre le  projet de résolution contenu au paragraphe 20 du document 33 C/80.
52.8 Au cours du débat qui a suivi sur le nouveau style de gestion, la Commission a été informée des évolutions et  des coûts de financement futurs des outils de gestion de l’UNESCO : SISTER, FABS, et le nouvel outil de gestion des  ressources humaines. Dans ses commentaires, la Commission a accueilli favorablement l’introduction des tables de  délégation d’autorité qui dotent le nouveau style de gestion de toute la transparence voulue et de l'obligation de rendre  compte, requise pour le processus de réforme. Elle a rappelé qu’un certain nombre d’États membres avaient contribué  financièrement à l’élaboration et à la mise en place de ces outils de gestion. Elle s’est inquiétée, par ailleurs, de ce que  le recours à des contributions volontaires soit nécessaire au développement de ces outils, notamment en ce qui concerne  le module Ressources humaines. Dans le souci de refléter les débats tenus sur ce dernier point, la Commission a amendé  le projet de résolution, qui figure tel que modifié au paragraphe 20 du document 33 C/80.
52.9 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, la Commission a exprimé sa satisfaction devant les progrès accomplis en  matière de décentralisation et a encouragé le Secrétariat à faire part des difficultés inhérentes à la mise en œuvre d’une  réforme de cette ampleur. Certains États membres ont rappelé le double rôle des commissions nationales, à la fois  partenaires privilégiés des bureaux hors Siège et organes responsables de la mobilisation de synergies avec l’ensemble  des acteurs nationaux qui participent à la réalisation des objectifs de l’UNESCO. La nécessité impérative de renforcer  l’interaction avec les autres organismes du système, au sein des équipes locales des Nations Unies, a, elle aussi, été  soulignée par plusieurs États membres. La Commission a souhaité recevoir des éclaircissements sur : l’adéquation des  moyens financiers et humains mis à la disposition des bureaux hors Siège ; et les mesures novatrices propres à assurer la  visibilité de l’UNESCO dans les États membres qui n’accueillent pas de bureau. Sur le premier point, la Commission a  été informée que pour renforcer l’efficacité du personnel hors Siège, de nombreuses formations ont été mises en place  dans des domaines tels que la recherche de fonds, la gestion par les résultats ou la participation aux mécanismes de  coordination et de planification des Nations Unies. En ce qui concerne la visibilité de l’Organisation dans les pays où  celle-ci n’a pas de bureau, le placement, au sein de bureaux du PNUD, de personnel faisant fonction d’antenne d’un  bureau multipays et participant pleinement au système du Coordinateur résident des Nations Unies semble être la  meilleure solution ; celle-ci est déjà en application dans un nombre, à vrai dire limité, de cas. Ces opérations devront  être financées par des ressources extrabudgétaires. Enfin, le représentant du Directeur général a rappelé que, d’une  façon générale, la recherche de fonds demeure l’une des priorités des bureaux hors Siège s’agissant de s’assurer des  ressources financières et humaines nécessaires pour optimiser leur impact. Monsieur le Président, la Commission a  finalement recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter le projet de résolution contenu au paragraphe 20 du  document 33 C/80.
52.10 J’en arrive maintenant au point 10.2 « Rapport financier et états financiers vérifiés concernant les comptes de  l'UNESCO pour l'exercice financier clos le 31 décembre 2003 » et « Rapport du Commissaire aux comptes ». La  Commissaire aux comptes a souligné les très réelles améliorations des méthodes de travail de l’Organisation, qui ont été  mises sur le compte de l’introduction d’outils de gestion, la mise en place d'un Comité du budget et des finances et le  travail du Service d’évaluation et d’audit, le célèbre IOS. À la demande de la Commission, la Commissaire aux comptes  a identifié ce qui lui semblait être les facteurs de risques auxquels l’Organisation aurait à faire face, notamment : le  recours accru aux fonds extrabudgétaires ; la décentralisation et ce qu’elle impliquait concernant les relations entre le  Siège et le hors Siège ; et, enfin, les ressources humaines, en ce que les contraintes auxquelles l’Organisation doit faire  face pouvaient peut-être remettre en cause la qualité des services rendus par l’UNESCO aux États membres. Les fonds  extrabudgétaires ont fait l’objet d’une longue discussion qui a porté sur leur utilisation, leur affectation aux activités de  l’Organisation, et leurs liens avec le programme ordinaire. Bien que ces fonds soient perçus comme indispensables au  fonctionnement de l’UNESCO, un certain nombre d’États membres ont relevé le risque d’instrumentalisation des  programmes qui résulte de leur nature contractuelle. Par ailleurs, alors que certains ont insisté sur le fait que les crédits  du programme ordinaire ne doivent pas servir à l’exécution des activités financées par des ressources extrabudgétaires,  d’autres ont avancé le point de vue inverse. En tout état de cause, la Commissaire aux comptes a souligné qu’il était  probablement temps d’entamer une réflexion politique approfondie sur le financement extrabudgétaire. Le représentant  du Directeur général a informé la Commission que l’Organisation s’efforçait d’aligner l’utilisation des fonds  extrabudgétaires sur les priorités de l’UNESCO et de les inscrire dans le système de contrôle et de programmation, en
457  mentionnant que l’intégralité des fonds perçus devrait être saisie dans SISTER. Les travaux du sous-comité des Nations  Unies qui est présidé par l’UNESCO et dont le but est de définir précisément des modalités communes de calcul des  dépenses d’appui ont également été mentionnés. Les résultats de ces travaux devraient permettre d’annuler, à terme, la  concurrence entre les différents organismes des Nations Unies sur le terrain. Monsieur le Président, la Commission s’est  ensuite intéressée aux engagements de dépenses non liquidés, et a insisté sur le fait que les fonds correspondants  devaient être rigoureusement suivis et contrôlés. Au terme de ses débats, la Commission a remercié la Commissaire aux  Comptes et son équipe pour l’excellent travail fourni au cours de ses deux mandats. La Commission a recommandé que  la Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution tel qu’il figure au paragraphe 21 du document 33 C/80.
52.11 En ce qui concerne à présent le point 10.3 « Rapport financier et états financiers intérimaires concernant les  comptes de l'UNESCO au 31 décembre 2004 pour l'exercice financier se terminant le 31 décembre 2005 », plusieurs  États membres ont souhaité obtenir des explications supplémentaires sur l’utilisation des fonds non liquidés pour  couvrir des dépenses engagées, laquelle, du moins à leur sens, révèle un manque de rigueur dans la gestion financière de  l’Organisation. À ce propos, le représentant du Directeur général a rappelé que l’utilisation de fonds non liquidés avait  déjà été proposée et acceptée lors de sessions précédentes de la Conférence générale. La Commission a souhaité qu’à  l’avenir il lui soit fait rapport sur les discussions du Conseil exécutif relatives à cette question. Enfin, la Commission a  exprimé, dans sa grande majorité, le souhait de recevoir un rapport consolidé, à la fois sur le taux réel des dépenses et  sur le taux d’exécution des activités de programme. Les États membres ont souligné le manque de synchronisation  actuel entre l’information qui leur était transmise dans les rapports financiers et le rapport plus substantiel du Directeur  général, lequel était en décalage d’un biennium. La Commission a recommandé à la Conférence générale d’adopter le  projet de résolution contenu au paragraphe 22 du document 33 C/80.
52.12 J’en viens au point 10.5 « Barème des quotes-parts et monnaie de paiement des contributions des États  membres ». La Commission s’est déclarée d’accord pour que le barème des quotes-parts de l'UNESCO soit fondé sur  celui de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, avec les ajustements qui s’imposent pour tenir compte de la composition  différente des deux Organisations. La Commission a été informée que la part exprimée en euros des contributions des  États membres pour 2006-2007 devrait être fixée à 56 %. Le représentant du Directeur général a expliqué que ce  pourcentage reflétait les projections des dépenses prévues en euros pour le biennium à venir et qu’il permettrait de  réduire les risques liés aux fluctuations des taux de change. Après avoir entendu ces explications, la Commission a  adopté le projet de résolution que vous trouverez au paragraphe 23 du document 33 C/80.
52.13 Passons à présent, si vous le voulez bien, au point 10.6 qui concerne le « Recouvrement des contributions des  États membres ». Monsieur le Président, ce point a suscité les discussions les plus denses et les plus riches de notre  Commission.  Le débat s’est concentré sur l’opportunité d’autoriser le recours à des emprunts extérieurs, sujet sur lequel  les États membres ont exprimé des points de vue différents. Plusieurs délégations ont manifesté des réticences au sujet  de l’utilisation d’emprunts extérieurs, soulignant que les frais correspondants seraient supportés par tous les États  membres, y compris par ceux qui s’acquittent de leur dû dans les délais impartis. Cependant, d’autres délégations, ont  considéré que le recours à l’emprunt – dans des situations exceptionnelles – constituait un « filet de sécurité » pour  l’Organisation et permettait d’assurer son bon fonctionnement si les États membres ne réglaient pas ponctuellement  leurs contributions. Enfin, plusieurs délégations ont exprimé le sentiment que si les frais afférents aux emprunts étaient  répartis entre les pays n’ayant pas payé leurs contributions à temps, cela constituerait une charge supplémentaire pour  les États qui rencontrent déjà des difficultés pour s'acquitter de leur contribution. A l’issue du débat, un consensus s’est  finalement dégagé pour autoriser le Directeur général à recourir à l’emprunt extérieur, tout en lui demandant de faire  rapport au Conseil exécutif, le cas échéant. Le projet de résolution a été amendé en ce sens. Monsieur le Président, la  Commission a recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution tel qu’il figure au paragraphe 24  du document 33 C/80.
52.14 Venons-en au point 10.7 qui concerne le « Fonds de roulement : niveau et administration ». La Commission a  manifesté son soutien à la proposition de maintenir le niveau du Fonds de roulement à 28 millions de dollars des États- Unis, ce qui correspond à 4,59 % du budget approuvé pour l’exercice biennal 2006-2007. Le représentant du Directeur  général a, quant à lui, exprimé des inquiétudes au sujet de l’ampleur des arriérés de contributions des États membres et  a souligné l'importance que revêt le Fonds de roulement pour faire face à ces arriérés. Monsieur le Président, les deux  projets de résolution liés à ce point font l’objet du paragraphe 25 du document 33 C/80.
52.15 J’aborde maintenant le point 10.8 « Statut et Règlement du personnel » qui n’a suscité qu’un très bref débat.  La Commission a donné son accord pour que la notion de « recrutement interne » soit introduite dans l’article 4.4 du  Statut et Règlement du personnel. Elle a unanimement recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le projet de  résolution figurant au paragraphe 26 du document 33 C/80.
52.16 Je passe au point 10.9 « Traitements, allocations et prestations du personnel » qui a également donné lieu à  un échange de vues très succinct. La Commission a unanimement recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le  projet de résolution contenu dans le paragraphe 27 du document 33 C/80.
52.17 Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le point 10.10 «Rapport du Directeur général sur la situation de la  répartition géographique du personnel », la Commission a exprimé sa satisfaction devant les progrès réalisés en matière
458  de distribution géographique au cours des cinq dernières années. À cet égard, elle a souhaité que les mesures déjà mises  en place, comme les consultations régionales, les missions et séminaires de recrutement et le programme des jeunes  cadres soient poursuivies. Certains États membres des régions Asie-Pacifique et Amérique latine ont cependant estimé  que cette amélioration n’était pas encore assez visible s’agissant de leur région respective, et ont encouragé le  Secrétariat à poursuivre et à intensifier ses efforts en la matière. En ce qui concerne l’opportunité de prendre en compte  une pondération des postes dans le calcul officiel des quotas géographiques, le représentant du Directeur général a  rappelé qu’après de longs débats, tant au sein du Conseil exécutif que de la Conférence générale, les États membres  avaient demandé que cela ne soit fait qu’à titre purement informatif. Le représentant du Directeur général a, d’autre part,  souligné que l’amélioration de la distribution géographique exigeait une coopération renforcée entre le Secrétariat, les  États membres et les commissions nationales. La Commission a de plus considéré que les prochains départs à la retraite  représentaient une excellente occasion d’atténuer de façon durable certaines disparités géographiques, notamment au  niveau des directeurs, et a vivement encouragé le Secrétariat à tirer pleinement parti de cette opportunité. Monsieur le  Président, la Commission a recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution contenu au  paragraphe 28 du document 33 C/80.
52.18 Le point 10.11, qui concerne la « Caisse commune des pensions du personnel des Nations Unies et Comité  des pensions du personnel de l'UNESCO », n’a fait l’objet d’aucun débat. La Commission a donc unanimement  recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution que vous trouverez au paragraphe 29 du  document 33 C/80.
52.19 Je passe enfin au dernier point examiné par la Commission administrative, le point 10.12 « Rapport du  Directeur général sur la situation de la Caisse d'assurance-maladie et désignation des représentants des États membres  au Conseil de gestion pour 2006-2007 ». Les membres de la Commission se sont félicités du rapport et du plan d’action  global présentés par le Directeur général et ont exprimé leur soutien aux mesures proposées. La Commission a reçu, à sa  demande, des éclaircissements sur le financement des coûts engendrés par ces mesures, en particulier la sous-traitance  des demandes de remboursement, pour laquelle la Commission a exprimé son plein appui. Le représentant du Directeur  général a souligné que le coût global de cette opération, comparable à celui des caisses similaires d’autres Organisations  du système des Nations Unies, était bien inférieur à celui des investissements informatiques (équipement, logiciels et  ressources humaines, etc.) qui seraient nécessaires pour que la Caisse puisse adapter et mettre à jour son unité de  traitement des demandes de remboursement. La Commission a également été informée que la Caisse elle-même pourrait  être le lieu d’économies substantielles à moyen et long terme. Ces économies résulteraient d’une gestion plus efficace  des demandes de remboursement, avec une réduction des coûts possible grâce à un contrôle rigoureux des opérations de  la Caisse et à une stricte application du Règlement. Après avoir entendu le représentant du Directeur général, la  Commission a donné son accord pour utiliser, à titre exceptionnel, et de façon ponctuelle, le solde des obligations non  liquidées de l’exercice 2002-2003, étant entendu que pour les biennia suivants, ces coûts de gestion seraient intégrés  dans le budget ordinaire de l’Organisation. La Commission a également exprimé le souhait que le Conseil exécutif soit  tenu informé de l’évolution de la situation de la Caisse, compte tenu de l’application des mesures prévues dans le plan  d’action. S’agissant de la formule de répartition des contributions, le représentant du Directeur général a rappelé que,  dans la plupart des organisations du système des Nations Unies, le rapport des parts employés/employeur était de 40/60,  voire de 33/67, comme c’était le cas à la Caisse commune des pensions du personnel des Nations Unies. La  Commission a recommandé que la Conférence générale adopte le projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 30 du  document 33 C/80.
52.20 Monsieur le Président, pour conclure cette présentation, je tiens à remercier tous ceux qui ont contribué au  succès des débats de cette Commission, à commencer par les représentants des États membres. Je voudrais remercier  tout spécialement les Vice-Présidents qui ont assuré la poursuite des débats en mon absence, ainsi que le Rapporteur.  Mais la Commission que je préside n’aurait jamais pu s’acquitter de sa tâche sans le précieux concours du Directeur  général adjoint, M. Barbosa, et de ses collègues qui, avec une grande patience, nous ont fourni tous les éclaircissements  et toute l'aide dont nous avions besoin pour mener à bien nos travaux. Enfin, Monsieur le Président, il me reste à  évoquer tous ceux qui ont facilité notre travail tout au long de cette session, à commencer par les membres du  Secrétariat de la Commission dont je tiens à citer les noms : Melle Christine Gossa, Secrétaire de la Commission,  M. Sachin Bhatt, Mme Nelly Bonnouvrier, Mme Janet Boulmer, Mme Jocelyne Fernandes-Barreto, Mme Dominique  Michet, M. Eliot Minchenberg et Melle Emannuelle Suso. Mais aussi, bien sûr, nos excellents interprètes et traducteurs  sans lequels nous serions des naufragés, les commis de salle ainsi que tous les techniciens et responsables des services  logistiques. Je crains sincèrement que cet hommage, aussi chaleureux soit-il, reste bien en-deçà de leur immense mérite.  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président et chers collègues, pour votre bienveillante attention.   :א ٥٣,١ א א ، א א אא א א.א א א ، א א א.، א א א א א ، א א א א א א א א ، א א א.א א ، ،
(53.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Honourable Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, I add my voice to the voices of the participants  in the General Conference in expressing our gratitude to you and all those who worked with you. Please allow me,  honourable Minister Dr Mohammed Bedjaoui, to congratulate you on your excellent report. I know and everybody knows  that the Administrative Commission has a formidable, difficult and sensitive mission, but your personal ability, your  thorough knowledge of UNESCO’s work and your vast expertise are all factors in your capacity to complete your work  in splendid fashion on a basis of sound management. I would like to confirm that, despite your busy schedule, you were  determined to be here personally to present this excellent report, so all our thanks to you and our appreciation and wishes  for success. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor if you have any comments or proposals about the report  before you and the resolutions therein. It seems to me that the work of the Commission, as I have already said and as its  Chairperson indicated, was excellent and you have carried out the collective work in such a way that we do not have to  debate again additions or amendments to the text. Therefore, I take it that the General Conference approves unanimously  the report and the resolutions contained in it.  (The President continues in English)
53.2 Please, you have the floor.
54. Mr Miller (United States of America):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, with respect to item 10.10 concerning the geographical  distribution of staff, I want to thank the Director-General very much for the efforts that he has made since the return of  the United States to the Organization to bring American citizens into the Secretariat, but I do need to express the  concern of my government that two years after we rejoined the Organization, the number of American citizens  employed at UNESCO remains at approximately half of the level at which it should be according to the system of  geographical representation. Thank you very much.   :א ٥٥ א  .א.א،
(55) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, that will be noted in the records. Spain
(56) Mr Ramallo (Spain) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Like my colleague, the honourable representative of the United States of  America, although we have advanced substantially in our work, I am attending the plenary meeting and taking the floor  for the first time and I too should like to say how very satisfied I am that you are conducting the proceedings. One  advantage of greeting you at this late juncture is that, to the presumption of excellent performance on your part we can  now add tangible proof of your good achievements, your cheerfulness and your composure, which have enabled us all to  work in a relaxed and contented manner. Thank you very much for that, Mr President. I should also like to take this  opportunity to pay tribute to someone who has been a splendid Commission Chairperson, Minister Bedjaoui, who has  really set us an example of very great professionalism and composure. I have asked for the floor to express a slight  reservation on the part of the delegation of Spain concerning what has been approved and thus the consensus already  reached on these matters. Our reservation concerns Part I of the draft Appropriation Resolution for 2006-2007, Part I.B,
460  Direction, and specifically the Internal Oversight Service. The reservation is that my country does not approve of  extrabudgetary funds being used to finance an office of the Directorate that is responsible for highly sensitive matters that  should always be treated with the greatest care. In this respect, the reservation is that even though we have full confidence  in the Director-General, we would ask him to ensure that there will never be a situation in which it could be said that  internal oversight activities, or particular internal oversight activities, have been funded by contributions from a specific  country. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ٥٧,١ א א ، ، א א ، א ، א א א.א.א.א ،  .א
(57.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, dear friend, for your kind words. I value your trust and support, which will help me to  continue in that direction with your constant assistance. Your country’s remarks will be noted in the record. Thank you.  Does anybody want to take the floor? Canada.  (The President continues in English)
58. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais vous suggérer de répéter quel sera exactement le calendrier des travaux  pour demain jeudi. En effet, il me semble que nombre de délégués n’ont pas pris note des changements intervenus dans  le programme qui était prévu pour cette journée. C’est très important. Je vous remercie beaucoup.   :א ٥٩ א.א.א  .א
(59) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I will do so at the end of the meeting. So, there are no more comments on the report.  Organization of the work of the session (continued)  Organisation des travaux de la session (suite)  Organización de los trabajos (continuación)  Организация работы сессии (продолжение)  )(א   届会的工作安排（续）   :א ٦٠ ، אא .א א א.א א٤٥א .א א א א אא א א א ،.א א א א ، א א א  א.א א א ؟.א א ، א  א
(60) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Before I close this meeting, I would like to remind you of a change that has occurred concerning tomorrow’s  proceedings. With regard to Commission I there will be no change in our work. After the presentation of the report of  Commission I, 45 minutes will be assigned for the joint meeting of the commissions. The addition is that instead of the  report of Commission IV being presented on Friday afternoon, it will be presented tomorrow at 5.15 p.m. in this room. I  hope, as we managed this morning and this afternoon, that our proceedings will be smooth and excellent and will end  early as happened this morning. So, the only change is the addition of Commission IV. Is that clear, Mr Ambassador?
61. M. Charbonneau (Canada) :  Oui, j’avais l’impression, comme beaucoup d’autres, que c’était plutôt 17 h30, mais puisque vous avez  précisé que c’est 17 h15, nous en prenons bonne note.   :א ٦٢,١ ، א א א א א א.א א א.א א ، א٤٥א א א א،.، א.א، א א  .א
(62.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  If you would prefer Commission IV’s report to be presented at 5.30 p.m., there is nothing to stop that. We  will return here after the end of the joint commission meeting. According to the Secretariat, that meeting will take 45  minutes, which means that we will come back here at 5.15 p.m. So, for the second time, thank you very much. We will  meet again tomorrow at 3 p.m.  (The President continues in French and Spanish)
(62.2) The President (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.      The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h.40  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.40  Заседание закрывается в 17.40  א א٥,٤٠א   会议于 17 时 40 分结束