(1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Distinguished audience, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This afternoon we shall bring to a close our  meetings for this session. Before coming to the closing statements, we still have one item to discuss: the adoption of the  budget for 2006-2007. But before that, I give the floor to Canada. You have the floor, Ambassador.
2.1 M. Yvon Charbonneau (Canada) :  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, j’ai l’honneur de vous transmettre au nom de S. E. le  Secrétaire général de l’Organisation internationale de la Francophonie (OIF), M. Diouf, un message chaleureux de  félicitations et de succès à l’occasion de votre réélection. S. E. M. Diouf tient à souligner votre éminente contribution à  la construction de la paix par l’éducation, la culture, et la science. Son Excellence tient à vous exprimer ses plus vifs  remerciements pour l’extraordinaire travail qui a permis l’avènement de la Convention portant sur la diversité culturelle  et il souhaite que de nombreuses autres initiatives conjointes soient prises par l’OIF et l’UNESCO.
2.2 Au nom du groupe des ambassadeurs francophones, je voudrais profiter de l’occasion, Monsieur le Président,  pour féliciter notre Directeur général de sa réélection à la direction de notre Organisation et lui formuler nos vœux de  succès et de satisfaction dans l’accomplissement de sa tâche au cours des quatre prochaines années. Nous savons en  effet que sa réussite sera aussi celle de notre organisation tout entière. Permettez-moi de rappeler devant cette auguste  assemblée les liens historiques particulièrement chaleureux et substantiels qui unissent l’UNESCO, l’espace  francophone et l’OIF. La vocation universelle de l’UNESCO va certes au-delà du domaine des langues particulières des  divers États ou groupes d’États, mais il est intéressant de noter et de saluer le fait que, sous votre leadership, l’UNESCO  a voulu mettre cette vocation universaliste en phase avec les réalités particulières de chacune des grandes aires  culturelles et linguistiques, entre autres l’espace francophone. De cette ouverture et de ce pragmatisme nous voulons  témoigner et nous voulons vous remercier, Monsieur le Directeur général, au moment où vous entamez votre nouveau  mandat. La communauté internationale vous a renouvelé sa confiance avec une force dont rêverait tout président ou  premier ministre d’un État démocratique. Parce que nous croyons en votre détermination à compléter les réformes  entreprises au sein de notre Organisation depuis votre première élection et, surtout, Monsieur le Directeur général, parce  que nous estimons que sous votre houlette l’UNESCO saura se montrer à la hauteur des grands défis contemporains,  qu’elle saura humaniser la globalisation et construire la paix par le dialogue, la coopération et l’éducation. La  communauté internationale vous a redit à quel point elle comptait sur vous, Monsieur le Directeur général, pour  confirmer l’UNESCO dans sa capacité démontrée de nous réunir et de nous rallier autour de perspectives progressistes  et humanistes, et je crois qu’il serait approprié de dire aussi que vous avez besoin de l’engagement soutenu de nos États  en faveur des idéaux et des grands programmes de l’Organisation. Les bons vœux que nous vous adressons aujourd’hui  ne sauraient se réaliser sans que tous nous mettions l’épaule à la roue derrière vous et à vos côtés. L’inauguration de ce  nouveau mandat, un moment de grande réjouissance, est donc en même temps l’occasion de vous dire et de nous dire  que le succès de l’UNESCO dépendra avant tout de notre solidarité et de notre détermination, lesquelles seront les  gages de l’efficacité et de la pertinence de notre Organisation. Nous vous renouvelons notre confiance, Monsieur le  Directeur général. Nous savons que vous nous guiderez vers cet horizon, et en terminant, je voudrais vous transmettre  les meilleurs vœux de succès que vous adresse notre Premier Ministre, le très honorable Paul Martin, et le Ministre des  affaires étrangères du Canada, l’honorable M. Pettigrew. Merci beaucoup.  (Applaudissements)   :א ٣ א.א  א א ، א א א ،.א  .אא
(3) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. I now give the floor to Dr Majed Ali al-Noaimi, Minister of Education of the Kingdom of Bahrain.  You have the floor, Minister.   :)א(אא ٤ א  א א.א א ، א א א א א .אא،אא
(4) Mr Al-Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. On behalf of my country, the Kingdom of Bahrain, it  gives me great pleasure to extend my thanks and regards to you for the excellent way in which you have chaired the  sessions of the Conference. You have shown patience, good judgement and warmth. I should like to repeat my country’s  congratulations on your election as President of the Conference. I likewise congratulate the Director-General on his re- election for a second term. I wish you both every happiness and success. Mr President, I hope you will allow me to  welcome the great achievements of this Conference in its 33rd session. None of this would have been possible had not all  of the delegations been determined to make sure that a spirit of mutual understanding, dialogue and respect of other  opinions was present at the sessions of the Conference. These principles are firmly established at the very roots of this  noble Organization. My thanks and regards go to all of the delegations. We are certain that as it turns 60, UNESCO will  remain young and strong, working for the good of humanity. Mr President, distinguished audience, ladies and gentlemen,  heads and members of delegation, I should like in conclusion to thank in the same way the Chairman of the Executive  Board for the excellent way in which he directed the workings of the Board during his time as Chairman. I likewise thank  the Members of the Executive Board for deciding to adopt the Kingdom of Bahrain’s proposal to create a prize entitled  the UNESCO King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa Prize for the Use of Information and Communication Technology in  Education. Thanks and regards are also due to the Director-General who was so kind as to place the item regarding the  Prize on the agenda of the Executive Board. I also thank all of the members of the Secretariat for their impressive efforts  to make possible the work of the Executive Board and the General Conference. I wish you all continued success. May  peace, and the mercy of God and His blessings, be upon you.   :א ٥ א א ، א ، ،א א  .א
(5) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much, Minister, for your kind words, and for your encouragement to me. All that you have  said will be recorded in the records of the Conference sessions.  Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 2006-2007  Adoption de la Résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 2006-2007  Aprobación de la resolución de consignación de créditos para 2006-2007  Принятие Резолюции об ассигнованиях на 2006-2007 гг.  א א א א ٢٠٠٧−٢٠٠٦א   通过 2006-2007 年拨款决议   :א ٦,١ א  א٤,٣א א א א א.٢٠٠٧−٢٠٠٦א א، א א א א ، א א אא אאא א  .א
(6.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  We now return to item 4.3 regarding the Appropriation Resolution for the years 2006-2007. I should like to  give the floor to Mr Ryuhei Hosoya, Alternate Permanent Delegate for Japan, on behalf of the Administrative  Commission throughout the joint meeting between the Commissions of the General Conference and the Administrative  Commission.  (The President continues in English)
6.2 You have the floor, please.
7.1 Mr Hosoya (Japan) (Chairperson of the Administrative Commission):  Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to pay tribute  to the momentous work that has been achieved throughout this General Conference, which is now drawing to a close.  We have one remaining task to be carried out, and that is the adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for the next  biennium. It is indeed very fitting that we are coming to this now, immediately following the installation of  Mr Matsuura as Director-General for his second term, just this morning. By entrusting this money and programme to  him today, we are really giving him no time to rest. What better gift could there be from us, the Member States, to our  constantly motivated and tirelessly dedicated Director-General? Mr President, this is the first time that I have spoken  from this podium – maybe it will be the last – and I am very grateful to be given this opportunity to express my own  congratulations to Mr Matsuura. Having said that, Mr President, in introducing this item, I speak on behalf of the  Chairpersons of the five programme commissions, they are all well known to you: Ms Bhaswati Mukherjee, Ms Gun- Britt Andersson, Mr Julius Oszlanyi, Mr Jaime Nualart and Mr Mohammed Sheya. I am also speaking on behalf of the  Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, Mr Mohammed Bedjaoui, who has asked me to represent him today. It  is indeed a great honour for me to do so.
7.2 Mr President, I am presenting to the plenary, through you, document 32 C/70, which contains the report of  the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Commissions, which took place yesterday. The participants in  the Joint Meeting examined document 33 C/PRG/ADM.1 relating to the Appropriation Resolution. It was duly  introduced and commented upon by the Deputy Director-General, Mr Márcio Barbosa. In the debate, one delegate  reminded the Joint Meeting of the statement that they had made during the deliberations of Commission IV. One other  delegate sought clarification with regard to category II meetings, also referring to the discussions that took place in  Commission IV. The Chairperson of Commission IV, Mr Nualart, and Mr Barbosa duly responded to these  interventions. Following that, the Appropriation Resolution for 2006-2007 was approved by the Joint Meeting, which  recommends its final adoption here in plenary.
7.3 Mr President, among the many, many people who have worked so hard on document 33 C/5, I wish to take  this opportunity to particularly thank Mr Barbosa, Mr Engida, Ms Valle, Mr Yusuf, Ms Salman, Mr Cheikh N’Diaye,  Ms Christine Gossa, and their teams of truly professional staff, whom I had the great pleasure of working together with  in the many financial and administrative meetings of the Executive Board and the General Conference. The decision  that you are now asked to take will be the final fruition of their dedicated work over the last two years. I wish to express  my gratitude for the record to all of them, and, Mr President, I wish to strongly underscore the great importance of  reaching a consensus on the budget. Nowhere else in the decision-making of our Organization do we need to follow this  principle more rigorously. It is a cross-cultural norm, which I believe draws its strength from the spiritual values of, just  to name a few, the Japanese wa, which has long been referred to this morning, the ubuntu of Africa, and the star- spangled banner. It is about unity and diversity. This tradition of consensus for the C/5 document, among other issues,  may have been breached in unhappier times, but let us now respect its observance. I thank you, Mr President.  (Applause)   :א ٨,١ א.א  א א א ،א א א،א א א א א א א א א.א א א א.٣٣/٧٠ א،אא  .א
(8.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. I should like to extend my warmest thanks to you and to thank all of the Chairpersons  of Committees for the momentous work they have carried out, particularly in the joint meeting. On behalf of the  Chairperson of the Administrative Commission, I should like to congratulate you all for your great work and for this  impressive display. The time has now come for me to put before you this document regarding the item, document
33 C/70. The United States.  (The President continues in English)
8.2 United States of America, you have the floor.
9. Ms Oliver (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. Although we understand the sentiment that has just been expressed, my delegation  does request a vote on this item.    :א ١٠,١  .א.א
(10.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. You are entitled to do so.
543  (The President continues in English)
10.2 Madam Secretary, can we start voting? Japan, you have the floor.
11. Mr Sato (Japan):  Thank you, Mr President. It has long been the tradition at UNESCO to uphold the principle of consensus,  particularly for financial matters. Although Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference does allow for  a two-thirds majority vote, we must remember that the use of this rule for the budget was one of the reasons for the  unfortunate departure of the United States, United Kingdom and Singapore from UNESCO in the 1980s. We have not  resorted to these procedures for the last 22 years, and we must avoid a vote on the budget at all costs. However, I  understand that if some State does require a vote, we have no choice but to proceed. Mr President, I understand the  situation we are facing now is due to a quite extraordinary reason concerning the cultural diversity convention, and I  would like to state that this should never become a precedent for the future. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ١٢,١ ،،א  א.א .א ،א.؟.א، א א،،אא.א .א.א א א אא ؟א؟٣٣/٧٠א א א .א؟ א:א אא א א١٨٣:א א א א א؛١٢٧:، א א،א؛١٢٧:א א؛٨٧:אא א א ؛١٢٦:א א.:א؛א  .אאא
(12.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Ambassador. I agree with you. I hope there will not in future be any reason for a request for a  vote. But as I said, any State has a right to request a vote. Are there any other comments? There are none. We shall  therefore begin to vote in the customary way. By now, you know the procedure for a vote. There is no reason to repeat it.  As I said previously, I would like the name plates to be placed on the table in front of you. Let us begin the vote. Who  agrees with the Appropriation Resolution as it now appears in the document before you, document 33 C/70? Who does  not agree? Who abstains? Thank you. So the result of the vote: the number of States entitled to vote is 183. There are now
127 States in the hall. A majority, two thirds of those present who voted, is 87 votes. Those who voted in favour of the  vote are 126; against, 1; abstentions, none. I therefore consider the General Conference to have approved this document.  (Prolonged, vigorous applause)  א ١٢,٢ א  .א
(12.2) (translation from the Arabic) The floor now goes to the United States.  (The President continues in English)
12.3 United States of America? You have the floor, Excellency.
13. Ms Oliver (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a brief statement concerning the fact that we have just voted  “no” on this item. The United States fully supports UNESCO’s key priorities. Although we have made some progress in  the past few months, the Programme and Budget covered by this Appropriation Resolution does not go far enough in  shifting resources away from ineffective activities towards those programmes and priorities that get to the heart of  UNESCO’s mission. Moreover, the Programme and Budget for 2006-2007 includes funds for the implementation of the  Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, which we oppose and fear may  do harm. Thank you, Mr President.   :א ١٤  ..א
(14) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Cuba.
(15) Mr López del Amo (Cuba) (translation from the Spanish):  Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, it is regrettable that one of the Member States has voted  against the adoption of the budget on the grounds that it does not agree to a convention that was adopted today by an  overwhelming majority. I do not understand such an act on the part of that State which once withdrew from the  Organization for 19 years. UNESCO did not stop functioning, though. When the State returned, we thought that it had  changed its attitude and was prepared to work with the rest of the international community. However, we know now that  the State currently owes UNESCO $75 million of its contribution to be paid this year. We think that the State should  think carefully about its conduct and make a genuine effort to join in with the rest of the international community  represented here. Thank you very much.  (Applause)   :א ١٦ א":.א؟א.א א ، א".א א  .אאא
(16) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you. Would anybody like to take the floor? Thank you. I am reminded of a little quotation: “If  someone goes to a shop and his friend succeeds in selling him something he needs, that is great work. If he succeeds in  selling him something he does not need, that is genius.” Choose one of the two.  Closure of the 33rd session of the General Conference  Clôture de la 33e session de la Conférence générale  Clausura de la 33ª reunión de la Conferencia General  Закрытие 33-й сессии Генеральной конференции  א א א א  א 大会第三十三届会议闭幕   :א ١٧,١ א،،א،א ، א א،א א א  .א
(17.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Now, ladies and gentlemen, we return to this afternoon’s celebration, the closing celebration. I give the floor  to the Director-General to give his concluding speech.  (The President continues in English)
17.2 Your Excellency, you have the floor.
18.1 Le Directeur général :  Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Excellences,  Mesdames et Messieurs, nous voici arrivés, après trois semaines d’intenses débats, au terme de cette 33e session de la  Conférence générale, qui a suscité un intérêt sans précédent. Ce sont en effet huit chefs d’État et de gouvernement, près  de deux cents ministres, plus de trois mille délégués, près de trois cents journalistes qui ont suivi tout ou partie de nos  travaux. Cette session, quelque peu solennelle, puisqu’elle était placée sous le sceau du soixantième anniversaire de  notre Organisation, marquera sans nul doute un jalon important de l’histoire de notre Organisation.
18.2 Je me suis déjà longuement exprimé devant vous ce matin, aussi vais-je limiter mon intervention à  l’évocation de certains des principaux acquis de cette Conférence. Je retiendrai tout d’abord les messages forts, souvent  visionnaires, qu’ont successivement délivrés devant notre assemblée, sur des thèmes aussi fondamentaux que  l’Éducation pour tous et de qualité, le développement durable, le dialogue et la diversité culturelle, la Présidente de Sri  Lanka, le Président du Ghana, le Président de la présidence collégiale de Bosnie-Herzégovine, le Président du  Tadjikistan, le Président du Portugal et le Premier Ministre du Royaume de Thaïlande. Leurs interventions ont enrichi  nos réflexions, donné des motifs d’espérance et sont autant d’encouragements à persévérer sur les voies que nous nous  sommes tracées. C’est également avec un sentiment d’émotion que je voudrais rappeler la leçon d’humanisme qui nous  a été donnée par le Président de la République islamique d’Afghanistan, M. Hamid Karzai, et par le Président de la  République fédérale d’Allemagne, M. Horst Köhler, lors de la journée spéciale de célébration du soixantième  anniversaire de l’Organisation, consacrée au thème de la dignité humaine. Il était particulièrement émouvant d’écouter  ces représentants de deux grandes nations qui, à soixante années de distance, ont fait le choix difficile et nécessaire de la  paix, de la réconciliation et de la concorde civile. Nous serons nombreux à garder en mémoire leurs témoignages  empreints de courage et de tolérance.
18.3 Les sujets à l’ordre du jour de cette session étaient nombreux, complexes, sensibles, nécessitant un esprit  constructif de dialogue, d’écoute et de respect mutuel de tous les instants. Grâce à la présidence éclairée de  l’Ambassadeur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan, auquel je tiens à rendre un hommage appuyé, je crois que nous avons su  répondre à cette exigence. Je saisis également cette occasion pour saluer le travail remarquable accompli par les six  commissions, malgré un agenda particulièrement chargé, et à féliciter tout particulièrement leurs présidents respectifs,  qui ont su entretenir un remarquable esprit de dialogue, dans le respect des opinions de chacun. Enfin, il me faut saluer  ici le travail remarquable accompli au cours des deux dernières années par le Conseil exécutif, et exprimer à nouveau  ma reconnaissance à son président sortant, M. Hans-Heinrich Wrede.
18.4 Je crois que cette Conférence générale aura été une source renouvelée de réflexion et d’inspiration pour  nombre d’entre nous. Le Forum des jeunes, les deux Tables rondes ministérielles sur l’Éducation pour tous et sur les  sciences fondamentales, la Table ronde parlementaire consacrée à l’Éducation pour tous et à la ratification des  conventions internationales sur le patrimoine culturel, nous auront donné des occasions privilégiées de dialogue,  d’échange et de partages d’expériences avec nos différents partenaires. Ces réunions ont également favorisé une  meilleure prise de conscience des enjeux posés. Ces rencontres, qui ont débouché sur l’adoption de communiqués riches  en engagements concrets, illustrent la nouvelle approche de nos relations avec le monde extérieur, fondée sur une  ouverture à de nouveaux publics et le renforcement des partenariats déjà forgés tant avec le secteur privé qu’avec le  secteur public.
18.5 À l’heure où nous sommes pleinement engagés dans la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le  développement, je crois qu’un certain nombre de décisions importantes ont été prises. Sur le plan normatif, en  particulier, je retiendrai l’adoption de la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions  culturelles, de la Convention internationale contre le dopage dans le sport et de la Déclaration universelle sur la  bioéthique et les droits de l’homme. Ce sont là des acquis importants, qui témoignent de ce que le monde, pour traiter  d’un certain nombre de questions d’intérêt mondial qui requièrent une action internationale concertée, se tourne vers  l’UNESCO pour y trouver tout à la fois un lieu d’expertise et un lieu de dialogue ouvert et pluraliste. En même temps,  je partage le sentiment exprimé par de nombreux intervenants qui considèrent avec raison que nous avons atteint la fin  d’un cycle et qu’il est désormais temps de porter notre attention vers la mise en œuvre des instruments existants,  notamment par des actions d’éducation, de sensibilisation et de renforcement des capacités.
18.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, au moment de nous séparer, je voudrais partager avec vous certaines réflexions.  L’UNESCO peut être vue comme un paradoxe : fondée sur l’universalité, elle trouve à s’exprimer pleinement par la  reconnaissance de la riche diversité. Elle est au service de la culture par la promotion et la préservation des cultures.  Elle est au service de la connaissance par la diffusion des savoirs.
18.7 Concernant l’éducation, qui est notre priorité absolue, nous voulons promouvoir une éducation pour tous et  de qualité qui doit se substituer à des techniques d’apprentissage de savoirs stéréotypés, qui ont pour seul résultat  d’apprendre pour apprendre. Nous voulons que l’éducation permette à ceux qui en bénéficient d’apprendre à vivre,  d’apprendre à comprendre le monde et les autres, d’apprendre à vivre en harmonie avec notre environnement matériel et  naturel. À travers cette éducation de qualité, nous voulons instaurer une culture de la prévention et de l’anticipation,  dont nous savons bien qu’elles sont parfois la seule arme dont dispose l’être humain devant les incertitudes du monde,  qu’il s’agisse des épidémies, des catastrophes naturelles ou encore de la prévention des conflits. Car si l’éducation est  une valeur en soi, elle peut revêtir de nombreuses formes d’expression qu’il nous revient de faire vivre et de faire  partager.
18.8 Enfin, par le dialogue entre les cultures, les civilisations, les religions, que nous facilitons et encourageons à  travers de très nombreuses activités, c’est la liberté, la dignité, les droits de l’homme que nous préservons. Je suis  profondément convaincu que pour atteindre la paix universelle, il nous faut en  appeler à l’esprit de chaque homme, tant  il est vrai que dans chaque être humain réside l’humanité tout entière.
18.9 À l’heure où j’entame ce nouveau mandat de quatre années, en mon nom personnel, mais aussi au nom de  l’Organisation tout entière dont je sais pouvoir me faire le porte-parole, je vous remercie de la confiance que vous  continuez à placer dans les valeurs et principes de l’UNESCO. Cette maison qui est la vôtre a besoin de votre soutien  pour poursuivre l’œuvre entreprise afin de « penser et construire la paix » et pour inventer ensemble les moyens  d’assurer un développement durable au plus grand nombre, à travers l’éducation, la science, la culture et la  communication. Ensemble, donc, travaillons à « penser la paix et construire la paix ».
18.10 En témoignage de reconnaissance et d’amitié aux deux personnalités éminentes qui ont, par la manière sage  et avisée dont elles ont dirigé nos organes directeurs, su penser et construire la paix par leur engagement quotidien, je  voudrais remettre, en votre nom à tous :
546  (Le Directeur general poursuit en anglais)
18.11 First, to Ambassador Hans-Heinrich Wrede, the Chairman of the Executive Board, I would like to present  him with the UNESCO Confucius gold medal.  The Director-General presents Mr Wrede with the UNESCO Confucius medal.  (Applause)
18.12 I would like to also present him on this memorable occasion with our new publication that has just come out  to mark UNESCO’s 60th anniversary, entitled Humanity in the Making: Overview of the Intellectual History of  UNESCO 1945-2005. This is a new publication relating to the 60 years of UNESCO’s history.  The Director-General presents Mr Wrede with the UNESCO 60th anniversary publication.  (Applause)
18.13 Now I would like to turn to the President of the General Conference, Ambassador Musa bin Jaafar bin  Hassan. I would like to thank him in the name of the Organization for three weeks of hard work and diligence with  which he has very, very skilfully chaired the General Conference, which has produced a number of positive results. I  would like to give him a gavel, which I hope he will use in two years’ time when he presides over the opening of the  next session of the General Conference. I would like also to present him with the same publication, Humanity in the  Making, as I have just given to Ambassador Wrede.  The Director-General presents the President with a gavel and the UNESCO 60th anniversary publication.  (Applause)
18.14 If I may now, I would like to continue with a few more words of thanks, which I would like to devote to  Madame Fatimah, the wife of Ambassador Musa, who is attending our session upstairs. I would like to thank her once  again in the name of the Organization for having lent us her husband in the last three weeks. Thank you very much  indeed – although I must warn Madame Fatimah this is not the end of the story. He has to be the President of the  General Conference for the next two years. You will therefore have to wait patiently while your husband, Ambassador  Musa, devotes most of his time to the important mission of UNESCO. So I would like to thank you in advance for your  understanding and patience. Thank you very much.  (Applause)   :א ١٩,١ א א ، א،א א ، א ، א א.א)!(א א ، ،א אא  .א
(19.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you, Director-General, for you kind words towards me and towards my wife, and thank you for this  gavel. Allow me to give it to my wife, for her to use it in the home (but not on my head!). Thank you very much. I can  now say a few words in conclusion, since it is still early.
(19.2) Distinguished audience, heads of delegation, Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, the work of the Conference in its 33rd session has drawn to a close. But the closing gavel also marks the  transition to a new work session. We have debated, discussed, examined, made resolutions and recommendations. It is  now time for a different kind of work. This coming period will perhaps be my responsibility, since you honoured my  country by choosing me as President of the Conference over the next two years. My responsibility is to bring the  Conference to the implementation phase, cooperating with all parties in this august international gathering. Together we  have spent days of patient work, and valuable hours, towards realizing the goals to which UNESCO aspires: assisting  human heritage, and preserving and spreading the culture of civilization. This work has gone hand in hand with a  collective feeling of fulfilment, so that these days have passed quickly and satisfyingly, and we have been constantly  aware of the importance of culture from east to west. We have had the opportunity to listen to advice from seven heads of  State, a Prime Minister, vice-presidents, ministers of education, as well as ministers of foreign affairs, culture, sciences  and media, 217 ministers in total. A great number of delegates and observers from interested parties in education, science  and culture – 3,603 delegates in total – have used their outstanding skill to bring our aspirations closer together. In so  doing, they have tried to bring happiness back to our planet, despite the difficulties that have made things look so  hopeless for those generations of young people who aspire to education in a context of dialogue and tolerance. Ladies and  gentlemen, we have all worked energetically. Our Conference has been a success because our tasks were complementary,  and based on complete cooperation. This cooperation has been visible in the outstanding role of the Chairman, the  Members of the Executive Board and Secretary of the Board, hand in hand with the Director-General and with every  single one of his colleagues in every sector of the Organization. My regards and gratitude go to all of you. I also take this  opportunity to extend my warm thanks and deep gratitude to the Secretary of the General Conference, Ms Birgitte Møller,  to her deputy Mr Salamanques, and to all of the members of the team individually. (If there were enough time, I would  read out their names.) They have worked in an organized and stimulating way, which has helped us to carry out our tasks  throughout the time of the General Conference. For making the proceedings a success and making the achievements of  the Conference possible, I cannot fail to thank the hundreds of other participants among the members of the Secretariat,  some of them present and others working behind the scenes, in addition to the interpreters and translators in the  translation units, working towards all of the official languages, and those who edited and distributed documents. I also  thank the technical team responsible for lighting, sound and cameras, and the canteen workers, and the cleaners. I hope I
548  have not forgotten anyone. Thanks to everyone who worked and took part in making our work a success at this  Conference.
(19.3) Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever before we discover the importance of the goals to which our  Organization aspires. The days we are living through show that we must cling to the noble mission that the Organization  aims to realize. Celebrating UNESCO’s 60th birthday, we are reminded that our only hope is to foster intellectual and  moral solidarity between peoples. We must rely on the Organization’s efforts to eliminate zones of tension in the world,  and to put an end to the causes of war and conflict. We must base our dream on concrete work with the minds of men, to  spread the great human idea that there is no difference between people, if we are to avoid divisions among humanity.  There is nothing new in these aspirations. We have inherited them, and they have been tried time and time again over
60 years. The world has changed through the vicissitudes of history, as have the realities of human life. But the values of  UNESCO remain firm, sound and necessary for every time and place. Once we understand that truth, we see that we are  called upon to help UNESCO examine our specific responsibilities for the agenda of the 21st century. What we have  discussed at this Conference perhaps does not depart from that goal or from that advice. We have discussed education  and culture, preserving cities and protecting heritage, safeguarding cultural contents and artistic expressions. We have  striven to succeed, and to do so as efficiently as possible. Our continuing discussions were geared to reforming the  Organization; to realizing decentralization; to achieving the targets needed to harness science for sustainable development;  to strengthening education, raising awareness, and training; to the protection of the environment; to preserving world  heritage; and to enhancing dialogue between cultures. Our concern is life, from its cultural matrix to its scientific  dimensions. We cherish biodiversity and work to bridge the digital divide between peoples. We do our utmost to ensure  that all of the world’s inhabitants can benefit from the results of continuing genetic research. We tackle many issues but  are united in our goals. All of this has been achieved, and there is still a long road ahead of us. I say, as wise people  before me have said: “It is better to learn little properly than to learn much indiscriminately.” I cannot omit to show our  recognition to our host nation France, for all of its valuable support for our Organization. This support shows that the  French people believe in the importance of science and culture to bring peoples closer together. On behalf of all Member  States, I should like to express my heartfelt thanks to the French Government for the subsidies it has provided to make it  easier for the Conference to take place safely and peacefully. I also thank the French National Commission, which took  care of organizing the event, allowing the participants at the Conference to come to know the sites of culture and  civilization in this city of culture and light, Paris.
(19.4) Before closing, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my deepest thanks and gratitude to all of you for  the support you have given me. It has helped me to continue in my duties. I have drawn strength from all of the eloquent  and encouraging things you have said to me, and they have made me profoundly happy. Let me end my talk with a  quotation: “Happiness is not what I am looking for. I have only one love, one need, and one feeling, which dominates me  completely: to always work for others. The more I work, the more I come to think that I am happy.” Thank you.  (Applause)
(19.5) (translation from the Arabic) Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I now give the floor to His  Excellency Ambassador Wrede.  (The President continues in English)
19.6 You have the floor, Sir.
20. Mr Wrede (Germany) (Chairman of the Executive Board):  I did not expect to take the floor again, Mr President. All I wanted to do when I received the medal was to  thank you, to thank all of you, and to reflect on two or three moments during my position as Chairman of the Board.  When I took the Chair of the Board two years ago, I pledged to treat everyone equally. Now when you look back, you  will perhaps find that I treated everyone equally badly, so justice will have been done in some way. When I was elected,  my country considered this a great honour. I was naturally deeply humbled by the trust you put in me, and I hope that  the work we have done together in the past two years has justified that trust. When I was elected, I remember a  colleague saying: “The fun is over.” I would say now, two years later, we still had many good moments and also quite a  lot of fun, and I want to thank you all once again for your help, your advice, your cooperation and, above all, your  friendship. I wish you all the best and I part with a great feeling of gratitude and wish you all the best for the future and,  Mr President, for your work; and also to my successor, whoever it turns out to be on Monday, I wish all the best for the  work in the Board. Thank you very much.  (Applause)   :א ٢١,١  ..א
(21.1) The President (translation from the Arabic):  Thank you very much. We have now come to the end of our session.
549  (The President continues in English)
21.2 Do you want me to use this gavel to close the session? It looks very fragile. OK. I will use it before I give it  to my wife!  (The President continues in Arabic)  א ٢١,٣ ، א א א א א ، ،  .א
(21.3)  (Translation from the Arabic) Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the 33rd session of the General Conference  closed. Goodbye.  The President signifies the closure of the 33rd session of the General Conference with his new gavel.    The meeting rose at 4.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 16 h.25  Se levanta la sesión a las 4.25  Заседание закрывается в 16.25  א א٤,٢٥א   会议于 16 时 25 分结束