1.1 Le Président :   J’aimerais prier nos collègues de prendre leur place. Avec votre accord, j’ai l’intention de commencer nos  travaux. Nous n’avons pas de temps à perdre. Je vous prie de m’excuser, je ne veux pas attendre l’arrivée de ceux qui  sont en retard. Je n’en ai pas le droit.
1.2 Je voudrais vous dire deux mots sur les discussions de politique générale qui se sont tenues assez tôt ce matin  jusqu’à 10 heures. Des problèmes se posent dans certaines commissions. C’est, vous vous en doutez, bien naturel ;  plus encore dans la première période d’une session de la Conférence générale. Mais, en tout état de cause, sur la base  de remarques qui ont été formulées par plusieurs membres du Bureau, j’ai demandé au Secrétariat de bien vouloir se  pencher sur les points qui ont été soulevés. J’ai l’intention d’étudier moi-même la question avec le Secrétaire et j’espère  que les améliorations nécessaires pourront être apportées. Je voudrais aussi vous rappeler que le débat général se  terminera mercredi prochain, avec la réponse du Directeur général dans l’après-midi.
1.3 D’autre part, nous aurons plusieurs visites de chefs d’État : les présidents de l’ex-République yougoslave de  Macédoine et de la République-Unie de Tanzanie le 22 octobre et, le 23 octobre, les présidents du Cameroun et de  Saint-Vincent-et-les Grenadines.
1.4 J’ai formulé quelques suggestions à l’attention des présidents des commissions, qui peuvent les prendre en  compte s’ils le souhaitent, mais je voudrais tout de même vous demander de les aider. J’ai vu, et j’en suis bien heureux,  qu’il y a un grand nombre de présidents de très bonne volonté. Ils ne sont pas tous au courant de tous les détails, comme  personne d’entre nous n’est versé dans tous les détails d’une grande conférence qui réunit des centaines de collègues, et  ils ont absolument besoin de votre aide. Avec un tout petit peu de bonne volonté, on peut sans grande difficulté résoudre les  problèmes. Je voudrais donc vous prier de les aider, comme vous avez déjà eu la bonté de m’aider ici, lors du débat que  nous avons eu, et comme j’espère que vous continuerez à le faire jusqu’à la fin de cette Conférence.
1.5 Je demande au Secrétariat s’il a à apporter des précisions supplémentaires sur la réunion de ce matin, parce  que j’aime bien que la Conférence générale soit informée de ce dont on discute. Au moins, je n’ai pas l’impression que  nous perdons notre temps totalement. On le perd un peu, mais pas toujours, et pas totalement. Monsieur Salamanques,  vous avez la parole.
2.1 Le Secrétaire :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Conférence générale doit être informée des discussions de son Bureau  concernant l’inscription de nouveaux points à l’ordre du jour. Comme vous le savez, en vertu de l’article 15 de son  Règlement intérieur, la Conférence générale peut, sur rapport de son Bureau, inscrire de nouvelles questions de  caractère urgent ou important à son ordre du jour en vertu d’une décision prise à la majorité des deux tiers des membres  présents et votants.
2.2 En vertu de cet article, deux États membres ont présenté respectivement deux propositions d’inscription de  nouvelles questions à l’ordre du jour : la Suède et l’Espagne. Le Bureau de la Conférence générale a examiné ces  questions et a décidé qu’il devrait disposer de plus amples informations à sa prochaine réunion mardi prochain pour  décider de recommander à la Conférence générale l’inscription de ces deux points.
2.3 Quant à l’organisation des travaux, et à la demande du Président de la Commission administrative, le Bureau  recommande à la Conférence générale que le point 3.2 « Préparation du projet de programme et de budget pour 2010-
2011 (35 C/5) » soit attribué à la Commission administrative pour examen conjoint avec le point 4.1 « Méthodes de  préparation du budget, prévisions budgétaires pour 2008-2009 et techniques budgétaires ». Il s’agit tout simplement de  préparer l’avenir, donc le 35 C/5, d’une façon unie, et ce à la proposition du Président de la Commission administrative.
3. Le Président :   Je vous remercie. C’était naturellement un point d’information. Je tiens à ce que la Conférence générale soit  informée le mieux possible de ce qui se passe. Il ne s’agit pas d’engager maintenant un débat en l’absence d’une  recommandation précise du Bureau de la Conférence sur laquelle la Conférence aurait à se prononcer.  General policy debate (continued)  Débat de politique générale (suite)  Debate de política general (continuación)  Обсуждение вопросов общей политики (продолжение)  א )(א   总政策辩论（续）
4. Le Président :   Poursuivons notre programme, avec la liste des orateurs. J’invite Son Excellence Monsieur Kim Shinil, Ministre  de l’éducation et du développement des ressources humaines de la République de Corée, à prendre la parole.
5.1 Mr Kim (Republic of Korea):   Good morning. Mr President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by joining others in  warmly congratulating you, Mr President, on your election to this very important post. I wish you every success in your  new role. May I also take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation for Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura, for  his unremitting efforts to reform UNESCO towards the noble causes of peace and shared prosperity. Allow me to inform  you, Mr President, that the Inter-Korean Summit recently concluded successfully in Pyongyang, North Korea. This  historic meeting paves the way for the establishment of peace on the Korean peninsula and in North-East Asia. It is our  sincere hope that the efforts will continue within the framework of the Six-Party Talks, and eventually contribute to the  culture of peace across North-East Asia. To this end, I wish to request the active support of all Member States in the  important peace process on the Korean peninsula. As the South Korean Declaration on the advancement of South-North  Korean relations, peace and prosperity states, both sides seek to develop exchange and cooperation in many areas  including education, science and technology, and culture and arts. It is my belief that such endeavours will be able to  flourish through UNESCO activities.
5.2 Mr President, the Republic of Korea has emerged as a major player in the global economy and a mature  democratic society. The transformation would not have been possible without the valuable assistance extended by the  international community. In return, the Government of the Republic of Korea intends to raise its official development  assistance to 0.25% of gross national income (GNI) by 2015. We also seek to share our unique experience with  countries in need, and help them overcome poverty and promote peace.
5.3 Dear delegates, in order to be strong, UNESCO should exert greater efforts to enhance its effectiveness,  efficiency and transparency. In this regard, we believe that UNESCO should participate fully in the United Nations reform  process and work more closely with other United Nations agencies while avoiding the duplication of efforts. The Republic  of Korea welcomes the general direction of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy, which gives top priority to providing quality  education for all (EFA), critical to the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. As we have learned from our own  past, education plays a key role in personal, social and national development. In particular, human resources  development through education forms one of the most fundamental building blocks of an advanced democratic and  stable society. With this recognition, the Republic of Korea will continue to assist the attainment of EFA in under- developed countries through its Funds-in-Trust contribution, with particular focus on the use of ICTs in education. We will  cooperate more actively in the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa (TTISSA), a priority initiative of  UNESCO geared to EFA achievement.
5.4 The Republic of Korea also emphasizes the importance of lifelong education in achieving the goal of education  for all. We strongly support UNESCO’s continuing effort to foster sustainable development through formal and non-formal  education, as reflected in document 34 C/5. We intend to cooperate closely with the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong  Learning and with other Member States in organizing the Sixth International Conference on Adult Education  (CONFINTEA VI), to be held in Brazil in 2009.
5.5 Mr President, document 34 C/4 identifies “fostering cultural diversity” as one of its overarching objectives. The  successful implementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions  should be given due emphasis. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Korea is pleased to announce that it  will shortly ratify the Convention, and join international efforts in pursuing the objectives laid out in the Convention. I also  believe that cultural properties are important to the creation and maintenance of people’s identities. That is why the  return of cultural properties to the country of origin has a particular importance. To return such artefacts is not only a  powerful expression of respect for the country of origin, but also a stepping-stone for intercultural reconciliation. With this  in mind, we plan to host an extraordinary session of the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of  Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation in the Republic of Korea next  year. As one of the countries primarily responsible for introducing the concept of “Living Human Treasure” under the  auspices of UNESCO, the Republic of Korea commends the Organization’s ongoing effort to preserve the intangible  cultural heritage. We reconfirm our commitment to play a central role in the preservation of cultural heritage in the Asia  and the Pacific region. In this respect, I am pleased to mention that the Republic of Korea is currently making final  preparations to open a regional centre for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. In recent years, climate  change has also emerged as a major threat to sustainable development. We find it timely that UNESCO is providing  support for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and also conducting research activities on the agenda  through its science programmes. Certainly, UNESCO can contribute significantly to dealing with this issue by promoting  education for sustainable development. Mr President, let me conclude by reaffirming the Republic of Korea’s  commitment to the high ideals that UNESCO stands for. We have supported UNESCO from its very early stages of  development, and will continue to do so, with the shared mission of creating a better world for all. Thank you very much  for your attention.  (Applause)
6. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister. I would like now to ask His Excellency Mr Gela Bezhuashvili, Minister for  Foreign Affairs of Georgia, to take the floor. Mr Bezhuashvili.
7.1 Mr Bezhuashvili (Georgia):   Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me begin with my congratulations to you,  Mr President, on your election as President of the 34th session of UNESCO’s General Conference. Furthermore, we  greatly appreciate the Director-General’s determined commitment to reform UNESCO, to make it more result-oriented,  decentralized and more active in fostering the international cooperation that enhances the Organization’s global
158  relevance. For over six decades, UNESCO has advanced the highest standards in education, science, culture,  communication, and information. It also has strengthened meaningful collaboration in these fields among States and  other stakeholders. This very commitment is clearly stipulated in the Mission Statement of the Medium-Term Strategy for
2008-2013, the document that clearly defines the strategic orientation of UNESCO. Of special significance is the link  between the objectives outlined in this paper with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), yet another testament to  the Organization’s enduring relevance. My country, on its irreversible path to sustainable democratic transformation,  places great importance on the spirit of this document. It is in line with the democratic principles of universality, diversity,  tolerance, justice, dignity, and respect for human rights, the very principles and values that UNESCO has been upholding  for all these decades.
7.2 Distinguished delegates, let me address the overarching objectives of the Medium-Term Strategy, starting with  education. The importance of attaining quality education for all (EFA), the first overarching objective, is hard to  overestimate. Education plays a fundamental role in sustainable development, in promoting democracy, human dignity,  and dialogue among nations. Education for all is one of the essential items on Georgia’s development agenda today. We  strongly support strengthening UNESCO’s global leadership and coordination role for EFA and providing support to  national leadership. We would like to underline the significant role of peace education in increasing public awareness and  respect for other cultures and civilizations, and in creating perceptions based on balanced and fair information about  ethnic and religious groups. In a culturally diverse country such as Georgia, as well as in the heterogeneous regions of  South-East Europe where we belong, and the wider Black Sea region, the lack of peace education has led to conflicts  and hostilities. This issue, therefore, is of extraordinary relevance.
7.3 UNESCO has an important role to play in the sciences, and we particularly urge a focus on developing potential  in fundamental and applied research, innovative technologies, and supporting market-oriented studies, with the purpose  of transforming research into concrete outputs. As a country undergoing sweeping change to transform itself into an  enduring democracy, Georgia attaches particular importance to reforms in education and science.
7.4 Since culture is an important part of UNESCO’s work, we would like to see a strong emphasis on areas such as  promoting cultural exchange, linking culture and education, and providing an integrated approach to the preservation of  the cultural and natural heritage. We share UNESCO’s goals of preserving and promoting both the tangible and  intangible cultural heritage. In this regard, I am honoured to inform you that Georgia has recently presented a ratification  bill concerning the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage to the Georgian Parliament.  Georgia is striving to improve at the national level, the implementation of the World Heritage Convention and, if elected to  the World Heritage Committee, to contribute to the work of this intergovernmental body. Another issue that can only be  addressed through international normative action and multilateral diplomatic efforts is the intentional destruction of  cultural heritage, both in the context of armed conflict and during peacetime.
7.5 Mr President, intercultural dialogue is another area that is crucial in promoting reconciliation and mutual  understanding. We recognize the effectiveness of UNESCO’s framework for cooperation in multi-ethnic and multicultural  regions, like the Caucasus. We understand the need to promote respect for cultural diversity and enhance intercultural  dialogue, with the aim of contributing to sustainable development. The potential of the UNITWIN/UNESCO Chairs  programme and UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network in promoting dialogue and peace education is really  immense. In Georgia, these networks have grown very strong and popular over the past 15 years, thus ensuring the  Organization’s visibility, promoting international cooperation, and spreading UNESCO’s ideals. In this respect, allow me  to underline with satisfaction the fact that two more Georgian schools have recently joined the family of the Associated  Schools. This fact is very special for us, as the schools are located in the conflict area of South Ossetia and are  composed of pupils of both Georgian and Ossetian origin. Since the early 1990s, due to territorial conflicts in Abkhazia,  Georgia and South Ossetia, the residents of Georgia’s conflict zones have been deprived of access to adequate health  care and a proper education, and thus the opportunity to live a truly dignified life. After the 2003 Rose Revolution,  through the robust efforts of the Georgian leadership as well as of the recently established provisional administration, the  overall situation in the South Ossetia zone has taken a turn for the better.
7.6 Education is also of prime importance for confidence-building, social cohesion and rehabilitation in the conflict  zone, and in this connection it is regrettable that the separatist and secessionist de facto authorities have been trying  hard to stall our efforts in this direction. Regrettably, today there are still “grey zones” of conflict on the map of Europe,  where people are robbed of the most basic and fundamental rights, such as the right to use and to be taught in their  native language, as is unfortunately the case in Abkhazia, Georgia. A free democratic world should not tolerate such  behaviour. In this regard, let me stress the need to enhance UNESCO’s role in conflict and post-conflict areas. Special  attention must be paid to the educational needs of children, refugees, and internally displaced persons affected by violent  separatism, to the need to better protect and preserve the cultural heritage in these areas. Georgia has been consistently  focusing the attention of the international community on the alarming situation in the spheres of culture and education  within conflict zones. Both of these separatist regions have been prone to the intentional destruction of cultural heritage.  We call on UNESCO to take a close look at these outstanding issues. In this context, Georgia calls on UNESCO to  provide expert assistance to conduct an inventory and assessment of the unique cultural heritage objects in the conflict  zones, especially in Abkhazia, Georgia, in order to ensure their protection and conversation. The results of the previous  UNESCO mission, undertaken in 1997, are appreciable, but they need to be updated.
7.7 Mr President, let me conclude by citing a quotation from the Tbilisi Appeal adopted at the Second International  Forum “Globalization and Dialogue between Civilizations”, conducted last April under the patronage of the UNESCO  Director–General and the President of Georgia, His Excellency, Mr Mikheil Saakashvili. “Dialogue and not confrontation,  respect for cultural diversity as the precondition of dialogue and not as the source of intolerance and violence, active
159  involvement in global processes and at the same time preserving the identity of each, will foster peaceful and sustainable  development in the world.” Thank you for your attention.   (Applause)
8. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister. I would like now to ask His Excellency Mr Václav Jehlička, Minister of Culture of  the Czech Republic, to succeed you on the floor.
9.1 Mr Jehlička (Czech Republic) (address delivered in Czech; English text provided by the delegation):   Chairperson of the Executive Board, President of the General Conference, dear Excellencies, Ministers,  Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating the President on his election, and I would  like to assure him that the Czech Republic wholeheartedly supports the joint declaration of European Union Member  States on the Draft Medium-Term Strategy, the Draft Programme and Budget for the next two years, and other  fundamental issues, which has been made on their behalf by the distinguished representative of Portugal. In this respect,  we approve in principle the reform measures taken to make the Organization and its Secretariat more effective. We also  welcome the improved readability of the Draft Programme and Budget for the forthcoming biennium and the efforts to  develop specific tangible results. Denis de Rougemont once said that, in culture, taking stock of differences is necessary  not to divide, but to enrich culture still further. Yet this is only possible if we preserve cultural diversity and intensify  intercultural exchange. Accordingly, the Czech Republic endorses the new Medium-Term Strategy’s focus on promoting  cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue.
9.2 With reference to this primary objective of the Medium-Term Strategy, we believe that the Organization’s  programme proposed for 2008 and 2009 is clearly structured and remarkably well-tailored to achieve that objective. We  salute the fact that this programme moulds the overarching objective into concrete action, whether this takes the form of  museums or any new direction pursued by cultural statistics, recommendations on the status of the artist or the new  cultural heritage charter. The Czech Republic takes the view that understanding and respecting cultural diversity is  crucial for the achievement of the Medium-Term Strategy’s other overarching objectives, whether these are attaining  quality education for all (EFA), mobilizing science knowledge and policy for sustainable development or UNESCO’s  capacity to address emerging ethical challenges. With this in mind, the promotion of cultural diversity and cultural  dialogue is not – and cannot be – the subject of just one UNESCO sectoral programme. We believe that the issue of  cultural diversity should be addressed on the one hand by programmes in the Education Sector and Social and Human  Sciences Sector, and on the other hand by programmes in the Communication and Information Sector. Indeed, the  Organization’s significance lies in the fact that its structure is designed to allow this interplay of different programme  sectors. I note that this intermingling of the Medium-Term Strategy’s overarching objectives in the Major Programmes is  one of the methods our Organization should adopt as a matter of principle. And this goes beyond cultural diversity. Can  ethical challenges really be viewed simply as a matter for the social sciences programme? Is education for all really  confined just to education as a priority requiring no response from the cultural sector? Against this background, emphasis  needs to be placed on the intersectoral nature of UNESCO’s work and on more effective cooperation between experts  and institutions in the fields of education, science, culture and communication and information. It is axiomatic that  UNESCO should help pursue the Millennium Development Goals adopted by the United Nations, and play a coordinating  role in the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. Education (2005-2014) is evidently set to  remain one of UNESCO’s main priorities, but in our opinion it should not be restricted solely to knowledge-based targets.  In the field of education, we also need to engender a hunger for knowledge and nurture the process of “learning to learn”.  In our opinion the amount paid in contributions should be consistent with the compromise draft of the budget drawing on  essential programme requirements.
9.3 Mr President, the Czech Republic intends to continue pursuing UNESCO’s key objectives, and in this age full of  new challenges recalls, more than ever, the idea enshrined in the Constitution of UNESCO that wars have always begun  “in the minds of men” and that “it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. Accordingly, it  wishes to contribute to international intellectual cooperation, as this is the only way forward in this respect. This  cooperation is possible only if there is profound respect for human rights. We therefore call on UNESCO to continue  supporting observance of these principles with concrete action, in particular in light of the fact that next year is the
60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We would like to join those who welcome  Montenegro and Singapore into the UNESCO family. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.  (Applause)
10. Le Président :   Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Ministre. La parole est maintenant à Son Excellence Monsieur Maker Mwangu  Famba, Ministre de l’enseignement primaire, secondaire et professionnel de la République démocratique du Congo.
11.1 M. Famba (République démocratique du Congo) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président. Veuillez recevoir les salutations fraternelles et amicales du Président  Joseph Kabila et du Gouvernement congolais, qui souhaite plein succès à nos travaux. Nous présentons nos vives et  chaleureuses félicitations à Son Excellence Monsieur Georges Anastassopoulos pour son élection à la présidence de la
34e session de la Conférence générale, à Son Excellence Monsieur Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan pour avoir dirigé avec  succès les travaux de la 33e session de la Conférence générale, à Son Excellence Monsieur Zang Xinsheng, Président  sortant du Conseil exécutif, et à toute son équipe pour la qualité du travail abattu, à Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura,  Directeur général de l’UNESCO, pour sa disponibilité envers la République démocratique du Congo, à la République du  Monténégro pour son adhésion à l’UNESCO et à la République de Singapour pour sa réintégration au sein de notre  Organisation.
11.2 Monsieur le Président, lors de la 32e session de la Conférence générale, cette auguste assemblée avait honoré  la République démocratique du Congo en adoptant une résolution invitant le Directeur Général à appuyer le  Gouvernement congolais dans ses efforts de reconstruction dans le cadre du Programme et budget pour 2004-2005 et  pour les exercices suivants. Nous en sommes satisfaits. Merci, Monsieur le Directeur général, à vous et à votre équipe.
11.3 À ce jour, mon pays est arrivé à la fin de la transition politique, avec l’organisation d’élections libres,  transparentes et démocratiques après une guerre qui a fait près de quatre millions de morts et entraîné le déplacement  de millions de nos compatriotes et de nos élèves hors et à l’intérieur de nos frontières. Pays en situation de postconflit, la  République démocratique du Congo vit à l’heure de la consolidation de la paix, de la reconstruction et du renforcement  de la solidarité nationale par la décentralisation. Il est vrai que pour atteindre ces objectifs, il faut préparer les âmes à la  connaissance, à l’universalité et à la spécificité. Un seul outil est indispensable pour ce faire : l’éducation. Voilà pourquoi,  Monsieur le Président, le Président Joseph Kabila et le gouvernement de la République démocratique du Congo  adhèrent aux priorités du Programme pour le prochain biennium, essentiellement en ce qui concerne l’Éducation pour  tous, les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement et l’Initiative pour l’alphabétisation. Le renforcement des  capacités dans le domaine de la planification, de la gestion et de l’évaluation de la mise en oeuvre de l’Éducation pour  tous en vue d’améliorer la qualité de l’éducation intéresse notre pays ; un plan de vulgarisation est du reste disponible.
11.4 De concert avec l’UNESCO, le Congo s’est doté de nouveaux programmes d’enseignement. Cependant, les  efforts devraient se poursuivre en vue de réformer le programme de philosophie, de sciences et de technologie ainsi que  de mettre à profit les nouvelles technologies de l’information et de la communication dans le domaine de l’éducation, et  particulièrement les didacticiels pour l’enseignement à distance. Nous appuyons l’éducation au développement durable,  l’éducation des femmes et particulièrement des femmes autochtones, ainsi que celle des jeunes filles, et l’éducation  environnementale.
11.5 Concernant le Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles, mon pays remercie l’Organisation et le Directeur  général pour l’appui à la tenue des États généraux de la recherche scientifique en mai 2005. Ces importantes assises  ont abouti à l’adoption du plan stratégique de ce secteur. Nous nous attelons à la mise en œuvre des recommandations  formulées, notamment en ce qui concerne « les savoirs et savoir-faire endogènes » et l’organisation de la Table Ronde  des bailleurs de fonds .
11.6 Par ailleurs, l’eau et les écosystèmes associés constituent pour nous une priorité. Aussi, participerons-nous à la  Décennie internationale d’action, « L’eau, source de vie» (2005-2015) en interaction avec la Décennie des Nations Unies  pour l’éducation au service du développement durable (2005-2014).
11.7 Dans le domaine des sciences écologiques, la République démocratique du Congo a élaboré un plan de  développement et de conservation de la Réserve de biosphère Luki en partenariat avec le « World Wildlife Fund » et  l’École régionale supérieure d’aménagement intégré des forêts tropicales, et a procédé à l’état des lieux de la Réserve  de la Lufira au Katanga.
11.8 Pour les deux sous-programmes cités ci-haut, un appui au renforcement des capacités est nécessaire. Le Siège  de l’UNESCO a abrité en septembre 2004 une réunion consacrée au soutien à apporter au patrimoine mondial en péril  dans notre pays. Nous tenons à remercier sincèrement les organisations et institutions ainsi que les bailleurs de fonds  pour leur appui. Cependant, face aux massacres des espèces fauniques perpétrés dans ses parcs nationaux et qui  entraînent une perte de biodiversité inestimable, le Congo sollicite l’appui de l’UNESCO et du FEM/PNUD pour chasser  les bandes armées hors de ces parcs ainsi que pour renforcer les capacités de ses gardes dans la lutte contre le  braconnage. C’est ici l’occasion pour nous de remercier le Comité du patrimoine mondial et la Belgique qui, chacun à  son niveau, sont intervenus pour organiser une réunion de sensibilisation sur l’avenir de nos parcs inscrits sur la Liste du  patrimoine mondial en péril et qui doit se tenir dans notre pays.
11.9 Monsieur le Président, notre pays attache une grande importance aux sciences fondamentales, sans lesquelles  aucun développement durable ne peut être envisagé. Aussi avons-nous accepté volontiers de participer à la table ronde  ministérielle organisée en marge de la présente session de la Conférence générale. Renforcer les capacités de nos  institutions de recherche constitue aussi une grande préoccupation pour nous.
11.10 Monsieur le Président, au regard du Secteur des sciences sociales et humaines, la République démocratique du  Congo fait siens tous les défis à relever en ce moment précis du rapprochement des peuples par la mondialisation, qui  n’est pas sans avoir des retombées sur nos populations du fait de l’interaction et de l’interdépendance croissantes de  toutes les nations et de tous les peuples. Prenant en compte les priorités sectorielles pour le biennium 2008-2009, nous  soutenons la promotion des principes, pratiques et normes internationales en vue d’un développement technologique  spécifique.
11.11 Nous saluons les efforts entrepris par l’UNESCO pour faire adopter des instruments normatifs dans le domaine  de la culture. Notre pays a déjà amorcé la procédure de ratification de six conventions sur les sept déjà adoptées. Par  ailleurs, les activités de vulgarisation y relatives ont été organisées en 2006 à Kinshasa grâce à l’appui financier du  Bureau de l’UNESCO à Kinshasa. Cette identification s’est poursuivie à l’intérieur du pays. Au sujet des musées, le  Gouvernement congolais a procédé au cours du biennium écoulé à la réfection du musée de Lubumbashi et se propose  de réhabiliter ceux de Mbandaka et de Mweka. Il est prévu de construire un musée moderne à Kinshasa.
11.12 Monsieur le Président, dans le domaine de la communication et de l’information, mon pays se félicite de sa  coopération agissante avec l’UNESCO, qui passe par la mise en œuvre de la stratégie de coopération entre les deux  partenaires et qui s’est concrétisée par la réalisation de plusieurs activités au cours du biennium écoulé, afin de faciliter  l’accès de tous les peuples à l’information et au savoir ainsi que la promotion de médias et d’infrastructures pluralistes,
161  libres et indépendants. La position de mon pays sur le Programme et Budget 2008-2009 sera présentée en détail dans  les commissions ad hoc. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.   (Applaudissements)
(13.1) Mr Al-Joufi (Yemen) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, Your Excellencies the Ministers, Your Excellencies  Ambassadors and Permanent Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I should like at the outset to convey to you the greetings of  His Excellency Ali Abdullah Saleh, President of the Republic of Yemen, and his wishes that the Conference proceedings be  conducted in an atmosphere of concord and cooperation. I am pleased that the Republic of Yemen is contributing to the  success of the Conference proceedings, in achievement of its noble and lofty goals. Mr President, permit me to congratulate  you on your excellent management of the Conference proceedings; I wish you every success. I am pleased to express my  gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Dr. Musa Bin Jaafar Bin Hassan, President of the last session.
(13.2) Mr President, I should like first of all to talk about education in my country. Since the reunification of Yemen in 1990,  education has been uppermost in the thinking of the political leadership and of those working in all types of education. To date,  five specific strategies have been drawn up, which are: the national strategy for literacy and adult education, the national  strategy for the development of basic education, the national strategy for technical and vocational education and training, the  national strategy for higher education and, finally, the national strategy for secondary education. These are all integrated and  complementary strategies designed to create a comprehensive educational system, characterized by excellence, which will  contribute to raising the individual and collective competence of teachers in response to the needs of Yemen in various  development fields. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to dwell a little on the strategy for secondary education,  adopted in the middle of 2007, because of the vital importance of this watershed stage of education, linking the outputs of  basic education with the inputs of general and higher education and because of the role we wish this stage of education to  play. It is the stage of fostering skills and expanding knowledge to prepare pupils to continue their education or to enter  working life. This strategy is part of the restructuring of the Ministry of Education and the development of the educational  system in Yemen.
(13.3) Mr President, my country was gripped with alarm at the failure to achieve one of the Millennium Development Goals  and Dakar goals at international level namely, the elimination of gender disparities by the end of 2005. In my estimation, this  failure is attributable to a lack of success in meeting the commitments the relevant parties working in this field set themselves.  The challenge now lies in addressing the outputs of the mid-term report on the progress made in achieving the development  goals of education. Accordingly, we call upon the Director-General to adopt the observations contained in the EFA Global  Monitoring Report and work to assist States in formulating their mid-term reports in order to ascertain the scale of the  achievements and the obstacles which need to be overcome.
(13.4) In the area of culture, Yemen ratified the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage (2003)  and we are a Party to the World Heritage Convention (1972). We are now in the process of studying the cultural agreements  designed to strengthen our national capacity for participation in issues of heritage and forms of cultural expression. Yemen  boasts a number of creative masterpieces which deserve the attention of the international community.
(13.5) In the area of communications and the media, we are proud that Yemen’s experiment in the field of media pluralism  and press freedom has received appreciation, respect and recognition from the concerned organizations. My country’s  government continues to strive to widen popular participation and diversify and support means of expression within a  framework of freedoms combined with ethical and professional responsibility, on the basis of the principles of democracy, in  which we believe, and the principles of human rights and social justice. Perhaps the initiative of His Excellency the President  to allocate 15% of seats in the House of Representative and Consultative Council and of senior positions in the State to  women gives credence to our approach and practical expression to the principles of liberty, democracy, justice and equality in  which we believe.
(13.6) Mr President, the Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013 has been put before this Conference and we express our  satisfaction with this very important document in terms of the method of preparation which was characterized by consultation  at national and regional level and among the bodies working in UNESCO. It meets with our approval as it bears the stamp of  succinctness, focus and flexibility in reviewing the coming period in line with the changes which will take place at internal level  in UNESCO. We should like to stress the importance of the priorities defined by this Strategy, particularly that of supporting  least developed countries and the African continent. Yemen finds itself covered by this priority given that it is a least developed  country while also being geographically close to Africa and, indeed, resembling it in respect of economic conditions. We have  expressed our position with regard to decentralization in more than one place and should like to affirm the importance of this  principle here. It is essential to focus on the national dimension of decentralization and, in particular, that this dimension be  consistent with the general approach designed to create a single system of United Nations services at the level of each  country. My country welcomes a national office to coordinate the efforts of this system in the Republic of Yemen.
(13.7) Mr President, the region of the Middle East and Horn of Africa has witnessed tension, having a negative impact on  UNESCO’s mission in its fields of competence. In Palestine, there are threats to the world heritage in Jerusalem, affecting the  heritage and social fabric of the city. Also, the educational institutions in the occupied territories and the Golan are suffering  from many problems which we call upon UNESCO to help deal with. We urge UNESCO, too, to support those countries which  receive refugees, particularly refugees at the stage of university study. We draw attention here to the efforts of the two sister  States, the Syrian Arab Republic and Jordan, in receiving Iraqi students. We likewise draw the Organization’s attention to the  role of the Republic of Yemen vis-à-vis refugees from Somalia, which the international community must help to emerge from  the ordeal it is experiencing. We affirm that Yemen shares in receiving refugees from Iraq, a portion of whom are at the stages  of general and university study. In consequence, we call upon the international community to help in this regard.
(13.8) In conclusion, I should like to thank the Director-General for the efforts he has made to give prominence to the role of  the Organization and advance its mission to wider and more comprehensive horizons. I thank you for your excellent  management of the proceedings of this Conference. Thank you very much. As-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon you).
14.1 Le Président:   Merci bien, Monsieur le Ministre. Le Docteur Abdulsalam Al-Joufi est un des ministres qui essaient de nous  aider dans nos travaux ; il préside aussi le Comité des candidatures et il est très actif.
14.2 Je suis désolé, chers collègues, d’avoir à vous rappeler qu’il ne peut pas y avoir de petits conciliabules ici ou là  dans la salle de la Conférence générale. J’invite tous ceux d’entre vous qui le souhaitent à sortir de la salle pour se  réunir et dire ce qu’ils veulent, mais je rappelle que c’est manquer de respect envers l’orateur, envers l’assemblée et  envers nous aussi que de le faire dans cette salle. Vous comprendrez que je ne peux l’accepter. J’ai tout pouvoir pour  protéger l’orateur et je suis certain que vous en convenez. Peut-être s’agissait-il d’une baisse de concentration, et il  m’appartenait donc d’attirer votre attention là-dessus pour que cela ne se reproduise pas. Pensez au ministre qui a  perdu quatre jours pour venir vous parler ici et qui assiste à ce spectacle. C’est mon devoir de le lui épargner. C’est  aussi simple que cela.
(15.1) Ms Meza Lara (El Salvador) (translation from the Spanish):   I wish you all a very good morning. Honourable Mr President and distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Republic of  El Salvador, Mr President, we express our warmest congratulations to you on being elected to preside over this session of the
164  General Conference of UNESCO. We should also like to reiterate our satisfaction with the dynamic work being done by the  Director-General, whom we encourage to pursue his efforts to strengthen peace and security in the world. On this occasion, I  should like to tell you about my country’s commitment and the efforts it is making in line with UNESCO’s basic objectives.
(15.2) El Salvador aspires to become an equitable, competitive and democratic country. In order to reduce extreme poverty  we are implementing the Solidarity Network Programme, which provides grants to families so that boys and girls can go to  school and have routine health checks. The participation of young people in economic and social development is important,  and we therefore welcomed the Director-General’s visit to our country in 2006 to launch the programme for the prevention of  youth violence in Central America. We consider it a matter of urgency to strengthen intergovernmental cooperation to reduce  levels of violence where it is exists; and we also believe that it is important to reinforce regional work opportunities to ensure  that young people can extricate themselves from dangerous situations and integrate society properly.
(15.3) Mr President, the influential report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has inspired us  to include global warming as a key theme in the national agenda of each of our countries. The time has come to take action.  We must translate our ideas into practical action that can improve the environment substantially. In this connection, we wish to  reiterate that El Salvador appreciates the recent approval by UNESCO of two biosphere reserves, namely Apaneca- Llamatepec, in the western mountainous area and Xiriualtique Jiquitizco, on the eastern Pacific coast.
(15.4) It is crucial for El Salvador to protect and strengthen its heritage and to raise the cultural level of the population. Thus,  with UNESCO’s support a programme to signpost cultural property and monuments has recently been completed with great  success. UNESCO is working to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and the education for all goals. Our country  considers that ensuring better education for our people is one of the main mechanisms for alleviating poverty, stimulating  competitiveness and furthering sustainable development. To this end, El Salvador is implementing the National Education Plan
2021, which is intended to provide full secondary education for young people, access to technology, and mastery of at least  one other language. The Plan has a long-term vision, with clearly defined goals and it promotes the commitment of all sectors  of society. The implementation of the 2021 Plan has been made possible by the priority that the Government of the President,  Elías Antonio Saca, has given to education. That priority has taken the form of increased investment in education, an effort  that has been complemented by funding from various friendly countries, to which we are most grateful.
(15.5) At the recent meeting of the group of middle-income countries, which took place in El Salvador, calls were made for  international cooperation to seek creative ways of financing the development of the countries which, like El Salvador, are in  this group. The appeal does not imply neglecting the urgent priority given to African countries. It instead involves relying on the  commitment, creativity and flexibility of international cooperation to accompany the different development needs of countries.
(15.6) Mr President, in the framework of United Nations Literacy Decade, proclaimed by the United Nations, and the Ibero- American Literacy and Basic Education Plan for Young People and Adults 2007-2015, El Salvador has been carrying out  activities in this field and has achieved a literacy rate of 95% among the youngest, and we are therefore sure to reach the goal  set for 2015. For our Government, it is essential to evaluate constantly progress made towards our goals. We should like to  take this opportunity to share with this gathering, through the Director-General, our annual reports monitoring achievement of  the Millennium Development Goals and the education for all goals. In conclusion, Mr President, we support to UNESCO’s new  Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013. We are sure that in our country with a vision for the future, a vision that we have built  through the efforts of our sectors and our people, we will be able to turn our hopes of today into reality, thanks to steady work  and especially the fraternal contribution of the international community. Thank you all very much.
16. Le Président :   Merci bien, Madame le Ministre. Je voudrais maintenant appeler Son Excellence, Monsieur Božo Biškupić,  Ministre de la culture de la Croatie, à prendre la parole.
17.1 Mr Biškupić (Croatia):   Distinguished Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to express my congratulations to you,  Mr Anastassopoulos, on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Croatia for being elected as President of the General  Conference. I would like to congratulate Montenegro on becoming a new Member and Singapore on rejoining UNESCO.
17.2 Let me start by expressing our support to UNESCO as well as to the other United Nations organizations, in the  continuance of the initiated reforms and clear defining of the Organization’s priorities, as well as UNESCO’s important  role within the United Nations. Mr President, Croatia expresses its strong support for the Organization’s normative work,  and we are happy to confirm that since the last session of the General Conference, we have ratified the Convention on  the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions and the International Convention Against Doping in  Sport. Besides being one of the first countries to ratify a great number of UNESCO’s conventions, we have actively  participated in the drafting of many of them. In June this year Croatia was elected to the Intergovernmental Committee  for the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, and we will continue to cooperate with other  States Members of the Committee in order to bring this important Convention to life.
17.3 Mr President, I am happy to report that we have enjoyed intensive and fruitful cooperation with UNESCO in  every area of activity, and especially in culture, where we would like to place special emphasis on our candidacy for the  inscription of Stari Grad Plain, on the Island of Hvar, on the World Heritage List, which will be taken into consideration  next year at the meeting of the World Heritage Committee in Canada, as well as the candidacy of Lonjsko Polje as a  mixed site, which is in the last phase of preparation. Recognizing the importance of the intangible heritage, which is  prescribed by the 1999 Law on the Protection and Preservation of Cultural Goods, we have been actively working  nationally on its protection and promotion. The National Register of the Intangible Heritage includes over a hundred  intangible property expressions from among which we will nominate our most prestigious expressions for UNESCO’s  Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. As the third country to sign the Convention on the  Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, Croatia is committed to promote and protect this type of heritage, and it  has founded the International Centre for Underwater Archaeology in Zadar, which will provide the possibility of education  in the field of the conservation and restoration of underwater discoveries and in that way contribute to international  cooperation. We are grateful to UNESCO’s Executive Board and Member States for the support given to the attempts of
165  the Republic of Croatia to establish the International Centre for Underwater Archaeology as a category 2 UNESCO  centre. We are also grateful to the Secretariat for its support and advice during the preparation of the Centre’s candidacy.
17.4 Mr President, recent educational reforms carried out at all educational levels and outlined in the Education  Sector Development Plan 2005-2010 have taken into consideration the Millennium Development Goals and the six  education for all (EFA) goals. Specific priority areas in the development plan, among others, include: enhancing the  quality and effectiveness of education at all levels; stimulating the continuing professional training of teachers and other  education sector employees; promoting education for social cohesion, and economic growth and development. With a  significant budgetary increase for the education sector, the government is providing free textbooks for all primary-school  students, as well as subsidies for free textbooks, transportation and dormitories for secondary-school students in order to  increase the percentage of them. Within the tertiary education sector the three priority goals of the Bologna Process have  been implemented: creation of a quality assurance system, introduction of a two-cycle system, and recognition of foreign  higher education qualifications.
17.5 UNESCO has for years been successfully fostering human rights education, intercultural education,  multilingualism and education for sustainable development. In 1999 the Croatian Government established the National  Committee for Human Rights Education. The National Committee for the United Nations Decade of Education for  Sustainable Development (2005-2014) has been established with the aim of fostering this form of education. We are glad  to report that UNESCO Associated Schools have been utilized as a vehicle for implementing the aforementioned  educational programmes.
17.6 Mr President, the Science and Technology Policy of the Republic of Croatia 2006-2010 presents a vision for the  development of the science and technology sector in Croatia which would enable the transformation of the country into a  knowledge society. The priorities and interests of the Republic of Croatia correspond to UNESCO’s policy documents.  Being a Mediterranean country, Croatia has a special responsibility towards water in general and the Adriatic Sea in  particular, and has been taking comprehensive measures to protect its waters. Croatia participates in the work of the  International Hydrological Programme and we hope to renew our mandate in this important Committee. We have also  reactivated our National Committee for the Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme, where we are actively  undertaking activities for the protection of the ecosystem along the Drava and Mura rivers as a new transboundary  biosphere reserve, in cooperation with Hungary and Slovenia. By initiating a National Scholarship Programme for young  women scientists entitled “For women in science”, the highly successful cooperation between UNESCO and L’Oreal has  been continued.
17.7 UNESCO’s recognition of important anniversaries in Croatian and world science has been warmly welcomed.  This year we are eagerly awaiting confirmation of UNESCO’s association with the 500th anniversary of the death of  sculptor and architect Ivan Duknović (Iohannes Dalmata), and the 500th anniversary of the birth of playwright and lyricist  Marin Držić, which will be marked by different events in Croatia and abroad.
17.8 In the social and human sciences, Croatia’s priorities are linked to human rights, enhancing multilingualism and  intercultural dialogue. The battle against doping in sport in Croatia has been enhanced by adherence to the World Anti- Doping Code and the International Convention against Doping in Sport, on the basis of the newly introduced 2006 Sports  Act.
17.9 Mr President, Croatia has been actively cooperating with all the countries in the region, and we give our full  support to the UNESCO Office in Venice in its efforts to stimulate cooperation in South-East Europe. We would like to  emphasize some successful meetings in whose organization UNESCO has participated, such as the Fourth South-East  Europe Heads of State Summit, held in Opatija in 2006 and entitled “Communication of Heritage”, the Fourth Ministerial  Conference on Cultural Heritage in South-East Europe “Cultural Heritage: A Bridge towards a Shared Future”.
17.10 In the forthcoming period of two years we are hoping to widen the scope of regional, European and broader  European cooperation, and to carry out new innovative projects in the field of education, science and culture in order to  support peace throughout the world. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
18. The President:   I have already had a chance to thank personally the Croatian Minister, with whom we have exchanged news in  the last years, from time to time. I would now like to call on His Excellency, the Honourable Arsene James, Minister for  Education and Culture for Saint Lucia.
19.1 Mr James (Saint Lucia):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed privileged to address  the 34th session of the UNESCO General Conference, especially as this is my maiden year as Minister of Education,  and President of the National Commission for UNESCO. I first congratulate you, welcome Singapore and Montenegro,  and I bring warm greetings to this Conference from the Caribbean island of Saint Lucia.
19.2 Mr President, at this session, the General Conference will examine the Medium-Term Strategy. The work of the  Executive Board is commendable, but we insist that the time has come for the General Conference to undertake critical  debate regarding extrabudgetary funds since their level is just as significant as the level of regular budgetary funds. We  wish to congratulate the Director-General for his continued commitment to strengthening internal control. Saint Lucia  supports the work of the Internal Oversight Service (IOS) and the evaluation strategy, and hopes that it will be given  adequate financial resources to carry out its work efficiently.
19.3 Saint Lucia has benefited from several UNESCO initiatives, including the Youth Poverty Alleviation through  Tourism and Heritage (Youth PATH) project since its inception in 2002. This project was developed in keeping with the  Millennium Development Goals that are related to secure and sustainable livelihoods and youth development. It was  envisioned as both a community heritage tourism initiative and a poverty alleviation/youth project in the Caribbean, and is  a shining example of intersectoral development. We thank the Director-General for proposing its continuation, though we  wish to see the Youth PATH project explicitly referred to in document 35 C/5.
19.4 The negative effects of climate change require the capacity to respond to the threats that confront small island  States like Saint Lucia. Consequently, we highlight the work of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic  Commission (IOC). To implement its diverse activities adequately, however, I urge support for the strengthening of its  financial resources.
19.5 Saint Lucia attaches great importance to its culture, and was the first Caribbean country to ratify the Convention  on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. As a member of the Intergovernmental  Committee on this Convention, we consider transparency and credibility as pertinent criteria for elaborating the  guidelines of this instrument. We will work arduously to ensure that these objectives are achieved at the earliest  opportunity. Saint Lucia is indeed proud to showcase our Pitons Management Area as being represented on the World  Heritage List. Come to Saint Lucia. The twin Piton peaks are a sight to behold. We pledge strong determination to ensure  the use of the site within the framework and limits of the World Heritage Convention. We salute the work of the World  Heritage Committee, but recognize that excessive politicization of the discussions poses a serious threat to its credibility  and future. We also deplore the lack of representation of the Caribbean region on the Committee, and recommend that  this situation be redressed in the upcoming elections.
19.6 Mr President, education remains the principal avenue for poverty alleviation, and the driving force in our quest  for sustainable development. In this vein, Saint Lucia is pleased to report that primary and universal secondary education  have been attained, but early childhood and higher education are seriously in the want. And now that access has been  attained, quintessentially there is a need to ensure quality education. Other looming challenges include literacy; the poor  performance of males; support for the at-risk, underprivileged and disadvantaged students to maximize access; and  teacher training in science, technology and technical and vocational areas. As UNESCO is the United Nations lead  agency for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014), it is hoped that support  will be provided in these areas within the true spirit of quality education for all (EFA).
19.7 On the issues of Major Programmes II and III, we had hoped for more innovative and daring recommendations  that would have placed UNESCO in a better position to focus on, and deal systematically with new global challenges not  addressed by other United Nations agencies.
19.8 Mr President, Saint Lucia has been and will remain committed to playing an active role within the Organization. I  am therefore honoured that Saint Lucia is now chairing concurrently both the Latin American and the Caribbean group  and the Francophone group of UNESCO. Let me at this juncture wish the Conference every success in its various  forums and deliberations. I thank you for your attention.   (Applause)
20. The President:   Thank you very much indeed, Minister, for your intervention. I would like now to call Mr Henri Ossebi, Minister of  Higher Education of the Congo.
21.1 M. Ossebi (Congo) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégations, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est pour  moi un grand honneur de prendre la parole à cette tribune. Je voudrais, d’emblée, m’acquitter d’un agréable devoir :  celui de vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, au nom de ma délégation et en mon nom propre, pour votre brillante  élection.
21.2 Je voudrais aussi, par la même occasion, rendre un vibrant hommage à Monsieur l’Ambassadeur Musa bin  Jaafar bin Hassan, qui a su présider avec dextérité les travaux de la 33e session et conduire ainsi avec perspicacité les  dossiers qui ont marqué son mandat. Par la même occasion, que le Directeur général, Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura,  trouve ici l’expression de mes sincères félicitations pour sa persévérance et sa lucidité dans la conduite des destinées de  notre Organisation. Permettez-moi également d’adresser mes plus vives félicitations à Monsieur le Président du Conseil  exécutif pour la qualité du travail préparatoire de cette instance et particulièrement pour la pertinence des  recommandations qui ont permis une amélioration remarquable des deux documents de base, le 34 C/4 et le 34 C/5.  J’adresse enfin mes sincères remerciements au Conseil exécutif, au personnel de l’UNESCO, à l’ADG Afrique, au  groupe africain ainsi qu’à l’ensemble de l’institution, pour la qualité de l’accueil réservé à Son Excellence Monsieur Denis  Sassou Nguesso, lors de l’inoubliable réception dont il a été l’objet, à Paris, en sa qualité de Président de l’Union  africaine, les 11 et 12 octobre 2006.
21.3 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, appréciant l’ensemble des grands programmes et compte tenu  des résultats positifs obtenus dans le cadre de la réforme de l’Organisation depuis le 30 C/5, j’aimerais indiquer la  préférence de mon pays pour le scénario d’un plafond budgétaire de 631 millions de dollars proposé par le Directeur  général. S’agissant des questions sectorielles que nous ne pouvons examiner en détail depuis cette tribune, mon pays  voudrait toutefois formuler les observations suivantes :
21.4 Premièrement, en ce qui concerne l’éducation, le Congo a entrepris de gros efforts de construction et de  reconstruction, à la suite des dommages et destructions provoqués par les conflits internes des années 90, pour réaliser  les objectifs de l’Éducation pour tous, notamment l’enseignement primaire universel, dont nous étions très proches au  cours des premières décennies de notre indépendance. Mais, au-delà des performances quantitatives, notre objectif  principal est d’ordre qualitatif. C’est pour cela que la formation qualitative des maîtres, la scolarisation de la petite  enfance, l’éducation des filles, l’alphabétisation des adultes, la professionnalisation des filières et l’appui à  l’enseignement supérieur constituent les maîtres mots de notre stratégie à long terme pour la refondation de notre  système éducatif. C’est pour cela également que, s’agissant du grand programme l, après le débat consacré à  l’éducation en Afrique lors de la 33e session de la Conférence générale, je veux ici marquer ma satisfaction quant à la  mise en route de l’initiative TTISSA et de la stratégie UNESS. Le Congo exhorte donc l’UNESCO, d’une part à  poursuivre sa réflexion sur les mécanismes de mobilisation accrue des ressources en leur faveur, tout en veillant à ne  pas trop se disperser et, d’autre part, à procéder régulièrement à l’évaluation rigoureuse du niveau de réalisation de ces  ambitieux projets.
21.5 Deuxièmement, dans le domaine des sciences, le Congo se félicite des efforts poursuivis dans la définition et la  rénovation de la politique scientifique et qui ont donné lieu sur place à la mise en œuvre du projet de renforcement des  capacités nationales.
21.6 Troisièmement, dans les domaines de la sauvegarde de l’environnement et la maîtrise de l’eau, le Congo  souhaite bénéficier davantage du Programme hydrologique international et de la Commission océanographique  intergouvernementale de l’UNESCO par la concrétisation des projets afférents auxdits programmes. Du reste, le Congo  qui, d’une part, appartient à la sous-région d’Afrique centrale concernée par le grand projet relatif au Bassin du Congo, le  deuxième poumon de la planète après l’Amazonie, mais aussi, d’autre part, appartient à la façade maritime du golfe de  Guinée, le Congo, disais-je, est conscient des enjeux de l’environnement et souhaite œuvrer à y apporter les solutions  qui s’imposent. Nous souhaitons donc que la communauté internationale, et l’UNESCO en particulier, appuie ses efforts  ainsi que ceux de tous les pays du grand Bassin du Congo dans ce domaine. Le Congo a, par ailleurs, soumis à  l’UNESCO un projet novateur portant sur la création d’une chaire spécialisée de philosophie à l’Université Marien  Ngouabi. La vocation régionale de cette chaire permettrait d’approfondir la réflexion et les recherches sur toutes les  questions relatives aux sociétés africaines ainsi qu’à celles de la diaspora.
21.7 Quatrièmement, dans les domaines de la communication et de l’information, les objectifs du programme de  l’UNESCO cadrent parfaitement avec ceux poursuivis par le Gouvernement congolais. Cependant, les besoins de mon  pays, encore fortement marqué par la fracture numérique, sont immenses. En raison notamment du déséquilibre des flux  d’information et des messages, tant écrits qu’audiovisuels, entre les pays du Nord et du Sud, les esprits de nos  concitoyens sont aujourd’hui fascinés par les modèles culturels exogènes. Sans doute, le développement prodigieux de  la communication de masse constitue-t-il aujourd’hui un vecteur important de la compréhension internationale. Mais  cette asymétrie est aussi le moyen de nourrir « les rêves d’Europe » qui sont hélas à la base des tragédies qui  endeuillent au quotidien l’Afrique, du fait de mouvements migratoires incontrôlés. C’est pour cette raison que le Congo  lance un appel au renforcement des activités du PIDC liées à l’équipement et à la formation des pays du Sud.
21.8 S’agissant de la culture, enfin, mon pays déplore le manque d’engagement et la diminution des ressources de la  part de l’UNESCO et de l’Union africaine pour la réalisation biennale du FESPAM. Il remercie cependant le Directeur  général pour l’appui de l’UNESCO à la réhabilitation de l’école de peinture de Poto-Poto, l’un des grands foyers de la  création artistique en faveur de la renaissance africaine.
21.9 Pour terminer, je voudrais souligner que le Congo a aujourd’hui de sérieuses raisons d’être satisfait de sa  coopération avec l’UNESCO. Car le Bureau hors Siège de Brazzaville a joué et joue encore un grand rôle dans la  visibilité locale de l’UNESCO, dans la consolidation et la dynamisation de cette coopération. Cependant, mon pays  souhaite de tout cœur un renforcement des capacités opérationnelles de ce Bureau, notamment par l’affectation de trois  spécialistes du programme en éducation, en sciences de l’environnement et en politique culturelle. Vive la coopération  entre le Congo et l’UNESCO ! Plein succès à cette 34e Conférence générale ! Je vous remercie pour votre aimable  attention.   (Applaudissements)
22. Le Président :   C’est à moi de vous remercier, Monsieur le Ministre, pour vos propos. Je prie maintenant le Ministre de  l’éducation de l’Éthiopie, Son Excellence le Docteur Sintayehu Woldemichael, de bien vouloir vous succéder.
23.1 Mr Woldemichael (Ethiopia):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, honourable  ministers, distinguished Permanent Delegates, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate you upon  your election, Mr President. I also want to wish you great success in your work and assure you of our full support in your  endeavours. My delegation further wishes to express its high appreciation to the previous President of the General  Conference for playing his role admirably. In addition, it is a pleasure for me to pay tribute to the Director-General for his  very informative introductory speech. We also warmly welcome the return of Singapore to UNESCO and Montenegro’s  membership of UNESCO.
23.2 Mr President, one of the core tasks we have at hand is the finalization of the Draft Medium-Term Strategy for
2008-2013 and the Draft Programme and Budget for 2008-2009. Although there are some unknowns, including the full  implications of the United Nations reform, which may require some attention later on, we feel that the Draft Medium-Term  Strategy is our fundamental strategy document. My delegation is also firmly behind Priority Africa, which must be backed
168  up by robust actions that result in concrete outcomes. Moreover, faced with the need to ensure that we have some  reasonable budget to continue implementing UNESCO’s most cherished goals, including education for all (EFA) and the  Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), we appreciate the Director-General’s efforts to achieve an increase in the  budgetary resources of the Organization, and endorse the $631 million budget ceiling for the 2008-2009 biennium.
23.3 With respect to education, my delegation would like to see intensive activities in terms of improving quality of  education at all levels. In addition, a challenge which we are facing – a challenge which other Member States may be  confronting as well – concerns policy development and other measures that are needed to properly regulate the dramatic  increase in primary school graduates which is posing a serious strain on the provision of secondary and technical and  vocational education. We feel that UNESCO should support Member States in this area.
23.4 Concerning culture, one important concern is the situation of world heritage in danger. Although the causes for  the problem are varied, much heritage faces such risks because of age and climate change. We therefore feel that  strategies should be developed jointly not just for rectifying the condition of sites already on the endangered list, but also  for preventing deterioration among the others. There should also be greater effort by all concerned to increase  nominations for additional inscriptions on the World Heritage Lists.
23.5 In the natural sciences, we face many challenges. One issue we would like to emphasize is disaster prevention  and reconstruction. To us, one of the overriding challenges in this area is to find ways of dealing with the causal factors,  which at least to some degree relate to global climate change. Another area of concern is renewable energy. In this  respect, we feel that focus should be placed on supporting training and research, particularly through institutes that are  closely associated with UNESCO. In the social and human sciences, we appreciate UNESCO’s effort in promoting  intercultural dialogue and social research, particularly as they relate to policy development. We believe that both kinds of  efforts can contribute significantly to the development of peace in our region and around the world and therefore need to  be strengthened. Concerning policy research, we feel that it is important for UNESCO to assist in promoting the link  between research, policy development, and policy evaluation, especially in developing countries.
23.6 Regarding information and communication, we believe that ICTs will be useful, though insufficient, tools for  fostering the knowledge society. We further feel that greater support to training in ICTs comprising not just the technical  but also the innovative and ethical use of them is a basic consideration in such efforts. We also stress the significance of  sharing knowledge and technology in an equitable manner through ICTs and other means at the global level to narrow  the gap between the rich and poor countries.
23.7 Moving on to some general and cross-cutting issues, we believe that UNESCO should play its roles effectively in  its areas of comparative advantage in the United Nations reform of “Delivering as One” in a way that would actually  enhance both its performance and image. We feel that active participation, continuous monitoring, frequent consultations  and information exchange are important in the United Nations reform process, including the pilot projects that are already  under way. We are hoping that the reform will, in actual practice, facilitate programme implementation in country priority  areas and in the work of the UNESCO National Commissions. We also feel that UNESCO’s close relation with the  African Union should be strengthened. We therefore appreciate very much all the actions that the Director-General has  been taking in this direction. We also trust that the draft action plan for implementing UNESCO’s resolution to expedite  the development of science and technology in Africa will get maximum support from all concerned. My delegation also  trusts that the Director-General will continue to give attention, as a matter of priority, to the recommendations of the  UNESCO Committee for the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). The quest for regional integration as  pronounced, for example, in the Accra Conference of Heads of State of the African Union, is something that can serve as  a framework for UNESCO’s contributions to Africa from the standpoint of the different sectors.
23.8 Mr President, let me very briefly cite some activities undertaken by my government in the education sector. With  respect to education, in line with EFA and the MDGs, my government has carried out many activities for the promotion of  primary education, gender equality, expansion of educational services, and improvement of educational quality. For  instance, the primary school participation rate, which was 20% some 15 years ago, is now 91.6%. Likewise, the number  of universities has grown from two to 21. Despite the above efforts, however, we still have 3 million school-age children  who have not yet got the opportunity of schooling.
23.9 Mr President, in my concluding remarks, it gives me pleasure to inform you that Ethiopia started its millennium  celebrations on 12 September 2007. This is the year 2000 for us. In this regard, I wish to thank, once again, all Member  States, particularly the Africa group in UNESCO, as well as UNESCO as a whole, for their full endorsement of the  millennium. There are going to be a number of important events marking the millennium up to 11 September 2008, and  the Ethiopian delegation hopes that we will be honoured by the participation of Member States and distinguished  personalities of the UNESCO family in the celebrations in Paris and in Addis Ababa. Thank you very much.   (Applause)
24. The President:   Thank you very much Minister. I would like now to ask His Excellency, the Honourable Pradip Nepal, Minister for  Education and Sports of Nepal, to take the floor.
25.1 Mr Nepal (Nepal):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly  congratulate you, Mr Anastassopoulos, on your election as President of this 34th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO, and assure you of my delegation’s full cooperation in the discharge of your important duties. I would also like  to express my delegation’s profound appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan,  for the excellent manner in which he guided the 33rd session of the General Conference. I commend the Director-
169  General, Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, for providing dynamic leadership to UNESCO and his tireless efforts to reform the  Organization for the noble causes of peace, progress and prosperity. Nepal congratulates and welcomes Montenegro as  a new member of UNESCO and Singapore for rejoining the Organization.
25.2 Mr President, Nepal has been striving hard to achieve the educational goals that are enshrined in the Millennium  Development Goals and education for all (EFA). To that end, we are reviewing overall programmes, policies, strategies  and activities in the field of education. We are also focusing our education plans and policies to universalize the  opportunity of quality education for sustainable development and safeguard the fundamental human rights, especially of  the ethnic, disadvantaged and marginalized groups. In order to address the United Nations Literacy Decade (2003-
2012), we are planning to launch a comprehensive literacy programme in a campaign model, with the support of  UNESCO, in selected districts of the country for providing primary education to out-of-school children and school  dropouts. All of our educational programmes are targeted for sustainable development. Nepal is also keenly engaged in  the development of the school sector reform programme and the comprehensive programme for literacy and female  education. Nepal needs the support of UNESCO particularly for the Literacy Initiative for Empowerment (LIFE) and  human resource development for effective implementation and monitoring of educational reform programmes.
25.3 Mr President, a decade-long armed conflict has been transformed into a peace process in Nepal. It was our  experience that the moral support and concern of international organizations like UNESCO proved to be helpful in this  regard. It is also time to focus on world peace through our collective endeavours by ensuring fundamental human rights  and democratic culture for a prosperous world. In fact, UNESCO’s ideals could be the best means to institutionalize  world peace. We believe that UNESCO and its Member States will increase their visibility, support and cooperation in our  efforts of reconstruction and socio-political transformation in Nepal. We highly appreciate the international community for  recognizing cultural diversity as the “common heritage of humanity”. Nepal, a multicultural country with immense  diversity, has planned to preserve and promote both the intangible and tangible cultural heritage with peoples’  participation. To preserve the cultural properties of the country, school students are mobilized in the campaign  “Preservation of Cultural Heritage through School Education”. It is my pleasure to inform this august gathering that Nepal  has started peace education as well, with support from UNESCO. I would also like to express our sincere thanks to the  World Heritage Committee for removing the Kathmandu Valley from the List of World Heritage in Danger.
25.4 Mr President, in view of the importance of media for democracy and good governance, the Government of Nepal  has developed the necessary legal and institutional provisions to ensure free, pluralistic and independent media. The  communications network has been expanded throughout the country to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of  information. The government is promoting ICT education from school level to higher education. This is in line with the  recommendation of the Executive Board to “strengthen the role of communication and information in fostering mutual  understanding, peace and reconciliation, particularly in open and post-conflict areas”.
25.5 Mr President, we have witnessed the prominent role played by information and technology in the present world.  Nepal highly appreciates the efforts of UNESCO in mobilizing science knowledge and policy for sustainable  development. Inspired by UNESCO’s policy objective, Nepal is leaping forward to harness technology to the best of its  capacity to eradicate poverty and illiteracy. Nepal aims to survey its resources and carry development messages to  homes across the country especially in the villages striding the traditional tracks and trails. It is the right time, I believe, to  draw the attention of UNESCO to the need to be more proactive in using science and technology to overcome global  challenges like climate change and poverty. In this connection, the regional and subregional network for sharing  technologies and scientific achievement should be strengthened. The technology transformation should be made more  compatible and accessible to the developing countries.
25.6 Mr President, illiteracy is a daunting challenge in most of the South Asian countries, hence there is a need for  strengthening South-South collaboration to eliminate illiteracy from the region. Nepal is always eager and ready to  contribute in this regard. Nepal possesses the unique settings of diverse socio-economic conditions – a potential ground  for trialling various activities and modalities of a literacy campaign. There is good scope in Nepal for setting up a  subregional centre for literacy and a UNESCO institute for literacy and lifelong learning. We would like to assure the  august gathering here that if so decided Nepal would provide all possible support based on its capacity.
25.7 Mr President, my delegation would like to support the major thrusts and strategies reflected in the Medium-Term  Strategy for 2008-2013 and the proposed Programme and Budget for 2008-2009. The activities are relevant and realistic.  We endorse them and hope that their effective implementation will contribute to the timely attainment of the MDGs and  EFA. Once again, I would like to thank UNESCO, all other international communities and our development partners for  their encouraging concerns and support in our efforts. I also believe that UNESCO and all of our development partners  will certainly increase their support to Nepal in order to address the problems in this transitional phase. Thank you.   (Applause)
26. The President:   Thank you very much Minister, and I would now like to call on His Excellency, the Honourable Dr Derek Sikua,  Minister of Education and Human Resources Development of the Solomon Islands to take the floor.
27.1 Mr Sikua (Solomon Islands):   Mr President, Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Government and the people of Solomon Islands, I extend our warm greetings and congratulations to you,  Mr Anastassopoulos, on your election as President of the General Conference of UNESCO at its 34th session. It is also  proper for me to acknowledge the excellent leadership provided by your predecessor in facilitating the proceedings of the
33rd session of the General Conference. Mr President, Solomon Islands would like to congratulate UNESCO on its
170  diamond jubilee in 2006. Indeed, it has been 60 years of service contributing to the building of peace, the eradication of  poverty, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue through education, the sciences, culture, communication and  information. This mission of UNESCO is still relevant for us today as it was in 1946.
27.2 Mr President, the Pacific States of UNESCO were honoured by the planned visit by the Director-General to the  region in mid-June 2007, and Solomon Islands was to be one of the three Melanesian countries to be visited. Due to  unforeseen circumstances, this visit did not take place. However, on behalf of my government, I wish to formally invite  the Director-General to visit Solomon Islands at a time convenient to him in 2008. This will create history in our country,  as well as for the Director-General himself as the first UNESCO Director-General to visit Solomon Islands.
27.3 Mr President, on 2 April 2007, Solomon Islands experienced a major catastrophe. It was hit by a series of  earthquakes and tsunamis that caused destruction to some of our islands, their inhabitants, homes, schools, gardens,  pets, animals and worldly possessions. The death toll stood at 52, many of whom were children. Allow me to  acknowledge with thanks the assistance from UNESCO, particularly for the immediate response to the disaster in  conveying sympathy messages to our Prime Minister by the Director-General as well as making available the provision of  assistance under the emergency Participation Programme. We really appreciate and treasure UNESCO’s response.  Mr President, it is a fact that small island developing States (SIDS) like Solomon Islands are vulnerable and prone to  natural disasters and the effects of climate change. In view of this, UNESCO should be part of the effort to set up early  warning systems.
27.4 Mr President, Solomon Islands acknowledges and supports the initiatives undertaken by the Director-General in  the decentralization and rationalization of programmes. In line with this move, while attempting to address common  regional issues and subregional issues, UNESCO must ensure that adequate resources are made available to the  Pacific Cluster Office in Apia, Samoa. Subsequently, individual countries like Solomon Islands will benefit.
27.5 Solomon Islands in this biennium has addressed some of UNESCO’s sectoral goals. For example, in education,  the education for all (EFA) goals have been written into the National Education Action Plan for the short term (2007-
2009), and into the Education Strategic Framework (2007-2015) for the long term. Furthermore, notable progress is  attested to by the fact that we now have draft policies in the areas of early childhood care and education, universal basic  education, teacher training and tertiary education. In addition, we have finalized our technical and vocational education  and training policy and it is in the process of being implemented with European Development Fund (EDF 10) support.
27.6 Mr President, given the scattered nature of our Islands we have to strengthen the ICT sector to assist us in  addressing the EFA goals through distance and flexible learning mode. At the moment we are pioneering a distance and  flexible learning initiative, and would like to draw UNESCO’s attention to our lack of human capacity and resources in this  area.
27.7 Solomon Islands upholds the principles of freedom of expression and speech. The hosting of the Pacific Islands  News Association Conference in Honiara in May 2007, co-funded by UNESCO through a subregional participation  programme, reflects Solomon Islands’ commitment to these fundamental principles.
27.8 Mr President, you are aware that in UNESCO there are cross-cutting themes, one of which is world heritage.  Solomon Islands has a unique World Heritage site in East Rennell, with unique natural geological settings and  ecosystems. We are working hard towards having some more of our unique heritage listed as World Heritage sites.
27.9 Mr President, although we have so far achieved some success in our endeavours to carry out programmes and  activities within UNESCO’s sectoral mandates, there are still some challenges when implementing our action plans. This  is where we still need the ongoing support from UNESCO, particularly in the fields of teacher training; policy and capacity  development; communication and transportation; legal review, and disaster preparedness.
27.10 In conclusion, Mr President, all countries will prosper if there is peace. Solomon Islands is grateful to be part of  UNESCO’s programmes for peace through education, science, culture and communication. Mr President, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your attention.  (Applause)  Mr Kridelka (Belgium) takes the Chair.
28. Le Président :   Thank you very much Minister. Je voudrais maintenant inviter Son Excellence, Monsieur Vuk Jeremić, Ministre  des affaires étrangères de la Serbie, à prendre la parole.
29.1 Mr Jeremić (Serbia):   Mr President, Director-General, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to address the 34th  session of the General Conference of UNESCO. The Republic of Serbia continues to uphold the enduring role of  UNESCO: to construct an impregnable defence of peace in the minds of men and women through the bridging of  differences and the promotion of our common heritage. Only when we come to look at diversity as a source of strength –  only when we embrace the view that individual cultures genuinely prosper when they come into contact with other  cultures – can we say that the tide has inexorably turned in favour of peace, human rights, and a common sense of  destiny.
29.2 Ladies and gentlemen, thanks in part to the support and dedication of the UNESCO World Heritage Centre,  Serbia is home to a number of World Heritage sites. Four of these sites – all those that are located in Serbia’s southern  province of Kosovo under United Nations administration since June 1999 – were placed in 2006 on UNESCO’s List of
171  World Heritage in Danger. Far from serving as a bridge of connection, Serbia’s heritage in the province remains the  focus of Kosovo-Albanian apprehension and hostility. Tragically, more than 150 Serbian churches and monasteries have  been destroyed in the past eight years, including 35 during two days of March 2004 in a pogrom against Serbs in  Kosovo. To destroy what those before you have built, in the conviction that you thereby erase the truth of it ever having  been there, is an act of supreme inhumanity – of cultural cleansing. In Kosovo as everywhere else, peace must not be  allowed to be built on the ashes of destroyed heritage. For reconciliation and peace is not the simple result of a  unification of likeness; it requires the offering and accepting of the gift of difference.
29.3 Allow me, therefore, to recognize the personal engagement of Director-General Matsuura, and to thank in  particular Italy, Greece and the Czech Republic, together with the European Union and the Council of Europe, for their  help in restoring and conserving the Serbian heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. I can assure you that Serbia’s Ministry of  Culture, together with our National Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and the Holy Synod of the Serbian  Orthodox Church, will expand their cooperation with the international community in order to more effectively implement  the preservation and restoration of Serbian heritage sites in Kosovo and Metohija.
29.4 Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Serbia is negotiating the future status of Kosovo on the basis of the very  values that bind us all to one another as human beings – values such as the quest for peace and justice. This is why we  have offered Kosovo a wide degree of autonomy in the conduct of its internal affairs. Our generous offer of substantial  self-governance is designed to respect and promote its unique contribution to the fabric of our society, while respecting  the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, in line with international law. We believe that only such a  compromise solution can pave the way toward the more rapid integration of not only Serbia, but also all of the Western  Balkans into the European Union, which is a strategic imperative for all of us. And we believe that only such a  compromise solution – a solution that embraces the concept of a common sovereign roof – can consolidate regional  democracy, enhance security, promote cultural diversity, and deliver sustainable prosperity to the entire region.
29.5 Excellencies, in conclusion, I would like to state that the Republic of Serbia supports the adoption of the  Executive Board’s programme recommendations and budget. Serbia’s delegation will continue to contribute positively to  the building of consensus on these and other issues before the General Conference. We support the new programme  evaluation mechanisms, and pledge to do our utmost to ensure that the proposed programme is implemented in its  entirety. In furtherance of our support for the programme of the Medium-Term Strategy, it is my pleasure to announce  Serbia’s intent to host a forthcoming annual South-East Europe Heads of State Summit on the topic of cultural heritage.  Moreover, the Republic of Serbia reaffirms its support for two of UNESCO’s most important priorities: Africa and gender  equality. My country’s record in promoting Africa’s sustainable development in the post-colonial period speaks for itself.  And the legislative and social achievements we have made in joining the European mainstream on the rights of women  here in Serbia are noteworthy.
29.6 Finally, the Republic of Serbia will continue to contribute to the protection and preservation of world, regional  and national heritage, heritage located in the developing world, heritage in danger as well as heritage in post-conflict or  disaster-affected areas. I am proud of my country’s dedication to press forward our promotion of cultural diversity and  fight against cultural cleansing. For the tangible achievements of the more than 6,000 cultural communities that span the  globe constitutes the most precious treasure of humankind. They make up the “infinite tapestry of distinctions, nuance  and change” of the world, in the words of our Director-General. Protecting and enhancing these achievements of man is  the great task before us all. For they constitute a foundation of identity, a basis of development, a tool of reconciliation,  and an instrument of peace. Thank you very much for your attention.  (Applause)
30. Le Président :   Thank you very much Minister. Je voudrais maintenant appeler Son Excellence Monsieur Mame Birame Diouf,  Ministre de la culture et du patrimoine historique classé du Sénégal, à prendre la parole.
31.1 M. Diouf (Sénégal) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Mesdames,  Messieurs les ministres et chefs de délégation, Monsieur le Directeur général. Monsieur le Président de la Conférence  générale, la dernière fois que j’ai pris la parole dans cette salle, c’était en 2005 pour célébrer avec vous l’avènement de  la Convention sur la protection et la promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles.
31.2 Aujourd’hui, au moment où s’ouvre cette session, la communauté internationale s’inquiète à juste titre de l’avenir  de notre planète, sur laquelle le changement climatique est désormais un phénomène incontestable. L’histoire est là qui  interpelle la conscience de l’humanité, et le rôle de l’UNESCO a encore pour vocation immense de servir d’enceinte aux  débats mondiaux et de coordonner les initiatives en faveur de notre développement durable. Aujourd’hui, l’heure est  encore à la coopération. Et pour reprendre la belle expression de notre Président, Me Abdoulaye Wade : « Aujourd’hui, il  est temps de construire notre futur en commun ». Monsieur le Président, c’est qu’il y a un lien direct entre la diversité des  expressions et les réponses à trouver pour préserver notre planète, puisqu’en dernière instance il s’agit, ici et là, d’agir  sur les mentalités et les comportements individuels. Mon pays, le Sénégal, est partie prenante à tous ces efforts mais il  souhaiterait aussi que l’on n’oublie pas les objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement.
31.3 Monsieur le Président, c’est m’acquitter d’un agréable devoir que de vous féliciter pour votre élection. Cette  élection est un gage de succès pour nos travaux puisque vous êtes héritier de la belle culture du monde grec, mais vous  avez aussi un viatique : votre longue expérience parlementaire faite de compromis dynamiques.
31.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, si nous avons commencé notre allocution par la culture, c’est pour saluer d’abord  l’immense travail réalisé par notre Organisation, qui dispose désormais de trois conventions majeures et qui, dans ce  domaine, peut mettre la culture au centre de nos préoccupations.
31.5 Monsieur le Directeur général, que dire encore de vous qui n’ait été dit par l’Afrique ? Vous qui êtes cet autre  ami de l’Afrique dont l’attachement à la cause africaine est devenu irréversible. Il nous plaît donc de saluer non  seulement votre attachement mais surtout la politique de réforme et de modernisation que vous n’avez jamais cessé de  mener dans notre Organisation. Aujourd’hui, l’UNESCO peut aborder dans de bonnes conditions la phase de réforme du  système des Nations Unies, qui vise à agir sur le terrain comme une seule et même entité. Le Sénégal comprend bien  cette volonté de rationalisation des interventions multiples et multiformes de l’ONU mais voudrait aussi réaffirmer la  spécificité de notre Organisation : l’UNESCO est la conscience de l’humanité. Il est donc souhaitable que le Conseil  exécutif consacre, dès ses premières délibérations, une séance spéciale de réflexion sur cette réforme et sur son  application par rapport à sa politique de décentralisation.
31.6 Monsieur le Directeur général, mon pays apprécie et soutient le contenu du Projet de programme et de budget  proposé pour 2008-2009 et nous nous réjouissons aujourd’hui de la sortie du cycle de croissance nominale zéro puisque  nous avons un budget de 631 millions de dollars. Nous savons, Monsieur le Directeur général, que vous avez dû  déployer des efforts importants, en présentant quelquefois même plusieurs versions ; grâce à votre sens de la  persuasion, vous avez réussi à convaincre les États de ne pas faire de la restriction budgétaire une finalité en soi. Ce qui  risquait d’être contre-productif pour l’Organisation elle-même. Il faut donc saluer votre sens de la mesure, et j’allais dire  « du consensus », qui aura permis au Secrétariat et aux États membres de trouver un compromis dynamique.
31.7 Monsieur le Directeur général, le Sénégal est heureux de constater que beaucoup d’objectifs primordiaux de la  Stratégie à moyen terme de l’UNESCO ainsi que les objectifs du 34 C/5 recoupent les préoccupations du gouvernement  de la République. C’est ainsi qu’en matière d’éducation, notre pays, qui y consacre 40 % de son budget, a atteint un taux  de scolarisation de 81,8 %, ouvrant par-là même de bonnes perspectives pour la réalisation de l’objectif de la  scolarisation universelle d’ici à 2015. Cependant, nous sommes conscients que la quantité ne suffit pas ; il faut  également une qualité de l’éducation, et c’est la tâche que le chef de l’État a assignée à ce secteur depuis le niveau  préscolaire avec ses 226 classes de tout-petits, le secondaire avec 62 nouveaux lycées et plus de 400 nouveaux  collèges modernes jusqu’au niveau de l’enseignement supérieur. Et c’est au nom de ce même intérêt que le Sénégal se  prépare activement à accueillir la septième réunion du Groupe de haut niveau sur l’EPT qui se tiendra à Dakar du 11 au
13 décembre 2007.
31.8 En ce qui concerne la culture, le Sénégal se réjouit de l’approche développée dans le Programme sur l’impact et  l’effet de la mondialisation sur les activités culturelles. Le Sénégal voudrait aussi saluer les dispositions prises pour  renforcer le dialogue interrreligieux et interculturel et annoncer par la même occasion son engagement à réaliser le  Sommet islamo-chrétien, qui marquera un jalon important dans la recherche de la paix mondiale. Un autre événement,  c’est l’organisation prochaine en décembre 2009 du Festival mondial des arts nègres, occasion rêvée pour l’Afrique et  pour la diaspora de donner encore un signal fort sur son message d’amitié.
31.9 Monsieur le Président, pour conclure, je voudrais saluer l’engagement des États membres à soutenir la cause  sénégalaise dans les efforts pour réduite la fracture numérique Nord-Sud. Épris de paix et de liberté, le Sénégal a, une  fois de plus, développé la liberté d’expression et a réussi à construire une maison de la presse pour les journalistes.  Pour conclure, nous voudrions rendre un hommage à l’UNESCO et encore une fois souligner le rôle important qui est le  sien dans la recherche de la paix mondiale. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.   (Applaudissements)
32. The President:   Merci, Monsieur le Ministre. I would like now to call on Her Excellency Ms Omayra Leeflang, Minister of  Education and Culture of the Netherlands Antilles.
33.1 Ms Leeflang (Netherlands Antilles):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General, Excellencies,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Netherlands Antilles, I would like to  congratulate you, Mr President, on being chosen to preside over the 34th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. I wish you continued success in the conduct of the proceedings. Congratulations are also due to the latest  members of the UNESCO family, Montenegro becoming thus the 192nd Member State of UNESCO on 1 March 2007  and Singapore’s return as the 193rd Member of the Organization on 8 October 2007. It is a great honour for me to take  part in this Conference.
33.2 Mr President, the education system of the Netherlands Antilles is experiencing a renaissance in terms of the  implementation of innovations. Since 2002 structural reforms have been taking place at all levels. We came to the  conclusion that we did not lack plans for education and formation. But due to the amount of fragmentation in formation  and education plans we had lost sight of the child. Educated people are easy to lead, but difficult to mislead. For this  reason the Ministry did not opt for a new education policy, but for a performance operation plan, a strategy to reach the  child, bringing together and connecting all education and formation programmes, in mutual consistency and precise  focus, thus making it privileged for all young people. Reference is made to what is known as the Delta Plan. The Delta  Plan is a seven-tiered programme with three specific goals by the year 2011. Firstly, solve the problem of dropouts.  Secondly, solve the problem of youth unemployment. And thirdly, introduce an education system that offers developing  opportunities to all young people. In order to make a connection with the labour market, we have made a partnership with  the fastest-growing labour markets, the hotel sector. This makes the Delta Plan a public-private partnership.
33.3 The Netherlands Government has embraced this plan and has pledged to fund it, as it offers realistic prospects  for a brighter future for all Antilles children and addresses the migration problem of unprepared youngsters to the  Netherlands. The most important programme of the Delta Plan is compulsory education from 4 to 18 years. This  programme goes hand-in-hand with the compulsory social formation act, so that students who do not use the opportunity  in school will still be under social compulsory formation until the age of 24. Organizations such as the Netherlands  Antilles Fiscal Committee as well as the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights refer to the  Delta Plan as a successful tool for dealing with the dropout problem and unemployment among youth, and for making  youngsters successful in the community. Mr President, it is a well-known fact that UNESCO emphasizes the education of  girls and women, and rightly so. However, our Caribbean reality is that boys and men constitute the minority in the  educational systems. We cannot allow them to be left behind in the educational process. In this regard, we will be  approaching UNESCO for financial and technical assistance in helping us complete research on the gender differentials  in school participation on the islands of the Netherlands Antilles, in particular the attendance of boys. It is unacceptable  for our educational system to lose these young men even before they have the necessary basic qualifications to be able  to function adequately in the labour market. The research should give us “the actual state of affairs regarding the  participation of boys and girls in education, but also [enable us] to identify the crucial moments in the dropout process  and the push and pull factors that influence this process”.
33.4 Mr President, the Act of Parliament regulating the official status of three main languages spoken in the  Netherlands Antilles, a programme of the Delta Plan, is no small feat. English, Dutch and Papiamento have been given  equal and official status. I am proud to say that all three languages may be used as lingua franca as well as instructional  languages within the education system. Especially for Papiamento, a Creole language, this is a very significant  achievement in the process of its emancipation. No longer can this language be referred to as a “dialect” or “inferior  language”, as was the case in the past. We firmly believe that UNESCO should continue to support the cultural diversity  that exists, now more than ever since the adoption of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  Cultural Expressions at the last session of the General Conference. We can proudly say that the cultural policy for Sint  Maarten has become a reality thanks to the technical assistance received from the UNESCO Cluster Office for the  Caribbean in Kingston.
33.5 Mr President, urban water problems are growing more complex and intense worldwide. Water is a basic  necessity for all and should not be limited because of the lack of resources. We therefore fully support the possibility of  having access to water for all as the Millennium Development Goals call for. We are equally pleased to see that  Associate Member States are slowly but surely receiving the necessary attention they deserve, and urge UNESCO to  continue in this way.
33.6 In conclusion, I would like to state that this year marks an important year for the country Netherlands Antilles, as  we will enter into a constitutional form in which Curaçao and Sint Maarten will have to apply for associate membership of  UNESCO. We count on the support and assistance of UNESCO in helping us fulfil this milestone in the history of the  Netherlands Antilles, and hope that, two years from now, Curaçao and Sint Maarten will be welcomed into the UNESCO  family. I would like to close by thanking you in the three official languages of the Netherlands Antilles. I thank you.  (Applause)
34. The President:   Thank you very much Madam Minister. I only speak two of the three official languages of your country and I am  sorry I cannot say it in the third language. I would like now to call on His Excellency the Honourable Edwin Wolf, Minister  of Education and Community Development of Suriname.
35.1 Mr Wolf (Suriname):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO,  distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, on behalf of the Government and the people of Suriname,  and on my own behalf, I would like to add my voice to those who have congratulated you on your election. While  expressing our confidence in your leadership, we would like to reaffirm our commitment to UNESCO’s mission and the  pivotal role it continues to play in fostering a culture of peace in the world within its fields of competence. We also feel  very much indebted to the Director-General for his management of the Organization, and for the preparation of the Draft  Medium-Term Strategy and the Draft Programme and Budget for the coming biennium. Mr President, we would like to  welcome Montenegro as a new Member State as well as Singapore which has returned to the ranks of our Organization.  We are looking forward to working with them in a spirit of cooperation and harmony.
35.2 Our ongoing biennial discussions and subsequent approval of the Organization’s programme and budget entrust  us again and again with emerging and growing challenges, many of which are generated by global political events that  pose a serious threat to humanity and sustainable human development, not the least the scourge of global poverty. In an  effort to try and find a solution to these problems, we, the international community, must continue to strive for innovative  approaches, thus fulfilling our role as an intellectual Organization, so that we can make a difference by making things  happen.
35.3 Mr President, the elimination of illiteracy and poverty through education continues to fill us with hopes and  expectations. An evaluation of the various educational programmes of past decades presents us with a picture that is  anything but satisfactory. However, we should continue to raise our expectations that we will succeed in overcoming the  next hurdle of the Millennium Development Goals. Mr President, Suriname has always responded readily to the  international educational objectives, and for our country education has always been a priority. With regard to the  education for all (EFA) goals, I can inform you that in the past few years, we have left no stone unturned to offer all our
174  citizens high-quality, affordable education and training facilities. With regard to the goals set for gender parity, early  childhood development, and adult literacy, we are very pleased with what we have so far achieved.
35.4 Mr President, our Ministry of Education and Community Development is also entrusted with the youth and sports  policy of the country. With regard to our youth policy, we are pleased to inform you that three years ago, we established  a youth parliament, whose function is consultative and advisory to the government. This parliament will shortly be  entering its second three-year term of office. As for sports, our policy is geared towards popularizing all forms of sports  and making them accessible to the rank and file in the neighbourhoods throughout the country.
35.5 Mr President, with a view to increasing the human capital of the country, the government will shortly launch a  major educational reform project, that is, the basic education improvement project. This is the flagship project of the  country, namely an 11-year basic education cycle, which will integrate kindergarten, primary and junior secondary  education. This project is aimed, inter alia, at the improved quality and increased efficiency of the basic education  system, by updating educational contents and processes and supporting institutional reforms, including teacher training  to strengthen the management and administrative capacities both within the ministry and at school levels. Among the  results to be expected is the drastic reduction of repeaters and dropouts, while the transition from one educational level  to the next will be more smoothly realized. As this reform calls for the redesign of the entire curriculum of our basic and  junior secondary education, we would seek UNESCO’s advice and assistance on matters of curriculum development.
35.6 Mr President, with regard to culture, our country fully realizes that cultural diversity and cultural heritage, both  tangible and intangible, are the international agenda of today and must be part and parcel of the formulation of our  cultural policy. We are in the process of establishing a fresh cultural policy document, and in an effort to integrate  innovative approaches on cultural diversity and intangible heritage, we would like to request UNESCO, as we did at the
33rd session, to assist us in the field of cultural policy design and its integration into development strategies. Within this  framework, I am pleased to inform you that we are also starting the process towards the ratification of the conventions on  cultural diversity and the intangible cultural heritage.
35.7 The UNESCO Slave Route project, which is internationally well known, has in its implementation failed to be  visible in most of our Caribbean countries. Since the eventful commemoration of the struggle against slavery and its  abolition in 2004, no significant activities on the Slave Route project have been forthcoming in the Caribbean region. We  are of the opinion that the project must continue to pay particular attention to the study of the historical dimensions of the  slave trade and slavery and the special contemporary relevance of its attendant cultural heritage and diversity in the  African Diaspora, notably the many hundreds of slavery-related sites of memory throughout the Caribbean.
35.8 In conclusion, I should like to reiterate that we should never lose heart if the execution of some of UNESCO’s  programmes do not produce the expected results, but that we should brace ourselves and continue to be optimistic about  realizing the Organization’s mission through the successful execution of our programmes for the coming biennium and  beyond. Thank you.  (Applause)
36. The President:   Thank you very much Minister. I would like now to call on His Excellency the Honourable Baron Divavesi Waqa,  Minister of Education of Nauru. Minister, you have the floor.
37.1 Baron Waqa (Nauru):   Your Excellency, Director-General Koïchiro Matsuura, distinguished delegates and friends, on behalf of the  people of the Republic of Nauru, I congratulate you, Mr President, on your election to preside over this 34th session of  the UNESCO General Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, I am humbled and privileged by this opportunity to advance  the agenda of peace and prosperity through the mandate of UNESCO in education, science, culture and communication.
37.2 To reshape and sustain its present and future state, the Nauru Government in 2004 developed and is steadily  implementing the Nauru Sustainable Development Strategy 2005-2025. In doing so, the findings from research in  science in the areas of renewable energy such as solar, wind and ocean currents as well as food security are being  investigated. Over the last decade, Nauru’s development agenda had been guided by the four principles, or as they are  commonly called the four pillars of education – learning to know, learning to do, learning to live together, and learning to  be – for its existence with others on this planet Earth. In learning to do and in learning to live together, Nauru will  continue to uphold the policy on compulsory education of students up to the age of 16. The Education Strategic Plan  stresses the importance of quality and relevant education. While there are more girls attending school than boys, and  performing better, the problem of truancy still haunts the education system. In learning to do and learning to be, Nauru  will focus its energies in the next biennium on the areas of technical and vocational education and training. We  understand that we must start addressing the issue of skilled labour, the supply of which in our 21 km² island and 10,000  population is critically limited, if we are to seriously make any development in all sectors, including infrastructure.
37.3 The terrors of distance and being washed over and away by water through natural disasters continue to be of  concern. In addition, the lack of capacity to keep pace with the demands of rapid modernization in this era of  globalization continues to be of concern regarding small and minority groups’ culture and identity in the region. In this  connection, Nauru is working on revitalizing its indigenous language through the school system. This is an important  ingredient in strengthening the unique culture that we have developed over thousands of years. I commend UNESCO on  the excellent work in the Culture Sector that is currently under way. UNESCO, however, needs to pay special attention to  vulnerable cultures, particularly those small cultures and ethnic groups with populations of only several thousand such as  that of my country, Nauru. The UNESCO subregional office in Apia, Samoa, is receptive to the call of assistance from  Nauru. Nauru appreciates the special consideration it has been given by Headquarters in Paris in order to accommodate
175  the difficult circumstances in which it finds itself. In the same spirit, Nauru acknowledges the tremendous support and  encouragement it receives from the donor communities in the Asia and the Pacific region.
37.4 Nauru remains committed to the principles of democracy, in particular stability and good governance. Nauru  pledges its support to mediation, and would advocate a win-win situation for those in difficult circumstances. Nauru feels  for the suffering of those less fortunate and unfortunate in other parts of the world, especially in war-torn areas. Nauru  will continue to pray that some day, peace and harmony will prevail; that all children will have access to clean, running  water, sanitation and food, will be free from sickness and may grow up in a world of peace, a world where all nations and  peoples uphold the values and ethics declared for all under the various United Nations human rights conventions.  However, there is a real concern that I harbour, and it is that all these commitments and efforts to rebuild and strengthen  a nation would be in vain if the issue of climate change is not addressed deliberately and decisively. It would be like a  boy spending much time and effort in building a sandcastle, even paying attention to details, only for it to be washed flat  by the tide. Mr President, I believe there is a real urgency in this matter, just as there is with other problems such as  HIV/AIDS, poverty, and illiteracy, and so forth, that need combating and that indeed UNESCO is actively involved in  addressing. UNESCO is well-placed to take this issue on board and join others in contributing to solving this global  problem. Low-lying islands such as those found in the Pacific, Indian and Caribbean and other great oceans of the world  are vulnerable to this phenomenon. This is not only an important topic for the Pacific and for indigenous peoples around  the world; it is a topic of urgent global significance.
37.5 Mr President, I appreciate the ongoing effort of UNESCO in coordinating partnership efforts among Member  States in all sectors of its competency and mandate. In that same vein, I call on all Member States and the great  international community to join their hands in taking affirmative action against this adverse climate condition. Nauru,  although one of the smallest in the UNESCO family, considers it to be important that it participates fully in all activities of  the Organization at all levels. In this connection, I am pleased to announce that Nauru is vying for a seat on the  Executive Board in order to amplify the small and humble voice of small States and contribute to the greater UNESCO  agenda. Nauru will continue to promote UNESCO’s ideals and commit willingly to its activities into the future. President, I  thank you all, I thank you all for your attention and support to the silent majority, marginalized, hard to reach, and nations  which are making a sincere attempt to sustain their livelihoods in this complex, global networked world. May God  continue to bless UNESCO and all of you. Thank you.  (Applause)
38. The President:   Thank you very much Minister. I would like now to call on Her Excellency Dr Mamphono Khaketia, Minister for  Education and Training of Lesotho. Madam, the floor is yours.
39.1 Ms Khaketia (Lesotho):   Mr President, Honourable Ministers, Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, I wish to begin by conveying to the session the greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Letsie III, the  Right Honourable the Prime Minister, and the people of the Kingdom of Lesotho. It is indeed a great honour, pleasure  and privilege to belong to this family of nations of which Lesotho has been part for the last 40 years. We are looking  forward to many more years of partnership and mutual support under the auspices and ideals of UNESCO.
39.2 Mr President, the Kingdom of Lesotho conducted democratic elections in February 2007, the fourth since the  return to democratic rule in 1993. Local and international observers declared them free and fair, which continues to put  our country firmly on the path to democratic rule, peace, and sustainable development, in line with our Vision 2020,  which sets out to build a nation at peace with itself and with its neighbours. It is through democratic rule and commitment  to the ideals of organizations such as UNESCO that we intend to attain the ideal of a peaceful nation. To us, peace in  Lesotho means maintaining an environment conducive to investment and socio-economic growth. Our Southern African  region has been on the receiving end of climatic changes in recent years. The prevailing climate changes have affected  our country adversely with a drought which has made it impossible for our largely rural population to produce food. This  year’s drought was the worst in recent memory. In July this year, our Prime Minister declared a state of food emergency,  appealing for food aid for the people of Lesotho. It is our fervent hope that the international community will again hear our  clarion call and lend a helping hand. I must hasten to say, though, that the United Nations Country Team has started  rallying for support from all quarters.
39.3 Mr President, the Government of Lesotho continues to strive to meet the demands of the call for education for all  (EFA) by 2015 and towards achieving the goal of universal primary education. We now offer free primary education and  we are in the process of making it compulsory from 2008. We managed to achieve the EFA goal on gender parity, with  girls maintaining a marginal advantage over boys. We have recorded considerable expansion in early childhood  education and secondary education, mainly due to government intervention to provide bursaries for orphaned and  vulnerable children, the number of which has been increasing exponentially in the wake of the effects of HIV and AIDS.  Our biggest challenge is the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic on our education system and our society at large. In 2006  we saw the highest ever number of children completing primary education and seeking places in secondary education.  The Government of Lesotho has had to make provision for this cohort of students from 1,455 primary schools in only 230  secondary schools. It is through the provision of bursaries, temporary shelter in primary schools, and increasing class  sizes in other schools that 10,000 extra students could be accommodated from January 2007.
39.4 Mr President, the plans of the country for the next biennium are related to all the sectors within UNESCO. Under  education, our biggest challenge is to achieve the plan in addressing the large number of students who have entered the  junior secondary level from January 2007. This commitment to addressing the challenge is, of course, an extension of  the realization of the EFA goals. Other areas to be looked into will be technical and vocational education as the driving
176  force behind the socio-economic development of the country. Curriculum as an overarching aspect will also be looked  into at all levels, with the express purpose of ensuring relevance.
39.5 Mr President, moving to the developments in the area of science, water and water management, which are  central to the activities which Lesotho has embarked upon, especially since water is one of our key assets, our Water  Commission is faced with the challenge of reviewing existing policies on water management and developing action plans  and strategies for the implementation of the policy. To this end, Lesotho intends to make a request for technical  assistance for the Water Commission. The need is greatest in the area of transboundary groundwater issues. The  expectation is that the programme specialist from the UNESCO Cluster Office in Windhoek will have time to look at the  policy prior to the expert who will be sent to guide implementation.
39.6 Under the department of culture, the intention of the Government of Lesotho is to ratify the Convention for the  Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Lesotho also hopes for the inscription of at least one site on the World  Heritage List. At the domestic level, the Heritage Bill will be debated in parliament during its current sitting. We further  acknowledge the assistance rendered to us for areas which have become tourist attractions, such as the Ha Baroana  Rock Art Site, which will be officially opened soon.
39.7 With regard to communications and information, a joint effort between the Ministry of Education and Training  and the Ministry of Communications, Science and Technology is under way to establish telecentres for the remote parts  of Lesotho. These will serve as learning centres for those students who are studying part-time by distance mode,  including herd-boys. These centres will also help communities and students to learn about computers and serve those  members who, for the first time, will be exposed to the world of ICT/IT in all its aspects, such as e-mailing and the  Internet. The challenge of power will be addressed by using solar energy as Lesotho has the advantage of abundant sun  throughout the year.
39.8 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I conclude, I wish to thank the UNESCO family for all it has done in  assisting Lesotho, and I look forward to more collaboration with its Member States within the region, within Africa, Asia,  Europe and America. Lesotho will continue to nurture the relationship it has had with the Organization for the benefit of  the people of Lesotho. In this spirit of UNESCO, Lesotho has put forward its candidature for the Executive Board of  UNESCO and hopes to share its experiences in the Board.
39.9 Finally, I would like to wish our neighbours, South Africa and their opponents, England, good luck in the finals of  the Rugby World Cup.  (Applause)
40. The President:   Thank you very much Madam Minister. I would like now to call on His Excellency Honourable David Arore, Vice- Minister of Education of Papua New Guinea. Minister, the floor is yours.
41.1 Mr Arore (Papua New Guinea):   Mr President, Chairman of the Executive Board, Director-General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, I bring to you warm greetings from the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea. Mr President,  we join others in congratulating you on your election as President of the 34th session of the General Conference of  UNESCO. We also echo our gratitude to your predecessor for his distinguished leadership. Papua New Guinea  acknowledges contributions by UNESCO under the leadership of the Director-General. Papua New Guinea remains  committed to the ideals of peace, democracy and respect for one another.
41.2 Mr President, 80% of our five million people sustain their livelihoods through sustainable farming. We have one  of the world’s richest collections and diversities of living culture with many ethnic groups speaking over 800 languages.  Despite these diversities and challenges, we have remained within the spirit of one people, one nation and one country.  In June 2007, Papua New Guinea held free and fair general elections for the eighth parliament in our 34 years of  nationhood. Papua New Guinea remains committed to the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals and this is  reflected in the national government’s Medium-Term Development Strategy (2004-2009). This includes the priority  programmes of education for all (EFA), and lifelong learning among the six national development priorities. Papua New  Guinea also recognizes the importance of developing its human resources for sustainable, social and economic  development. Despite our efforts and some progress, Papua New Guinea faces many challenges ahead and would not  attain the Millennium Development Goals without the assistance of UNESCO and the international community. Papua  New Guinea commends the Draft Programme and Budget of UNESCO for 2008-2009.
41.3 Mr President, our government’s priorities contained in the National Education Plan for 2005-2014 are consistent  with UNESCO’s programmes of activities in promoting the achievement for education for all, literacy, education for  sustainable development, and education for lifelong learning. While our government remains committed to these  objectives, and has made some progress, it is still far from achieving them. The primary gross enrolment rate is around
70% and the quality of education is a concern. Adult literacy rates are at less than 60%. We are hopeful that expertise  available within UNESCO would support Papua New Guinea in policy and research through the planned biennial  programme.
41.4 Mr President, we support the framework of Major Programmes II and III, and recognize that science also plays a  significant role in development. Science education remains a difficult subject to teach at school level; we therefore would  like to see UNESCO give special emphasis to overcoming these difficulties.
41.5 Our planet is threatened by human activities of development, of environmental degradation, resulting in climate  change. Papua New Guinea is one of the few countries with large tracts of rainforests. Our Prime Minister has taken a
177  lead in the international arena addressing concerns of climate change. Last month, our Prime Minister addressed the  United Nations on the need to take responsible action. He has not only spoken, but has allocated about $3 million  towards research for sustainable environmental practices. We commend UNESCO and would like to see it engage in  more work in climate change and in sustainable environmental activities.
41.6 Papua New Guinea supports the Mauritius Declaration. Small island developing States (SIDS) are more  vulnerable to the effects of climate change. We commend UNESCO for recognizing the unique problems and challenges  that small island States face.
41.7 Mr President, the Government of Papua New Guinea is committed to protecting and preserving cultural heritage  as culture is a mark of identity, pride and sense of belonging in a specific geographic location over space and time. The  Kuk Early Agricultural Site is of historical significance to Papua New Guinea and the global community. It is the first  heritage site to be nominated by the Papua New Guinea Government for inclusion in the World Heritage List, and as we  approach possible enlisting, we would like to thank the World Heritage Centre for the understanding and financial support  enabling us to see the project through to its end. A number of other sites have been accepted on Papua New Guinea’s  Tentative List. We also would like to reaffirm our support to other UNESCO mainline culture programmes such as the  studies of dying languages in the Melanesian region. In the programme of activities, we would like to see UNESCO  support Pacific island States in the Culture Sector.
41.8 Mr President, in a globalized community, information is critical to participation in the development process. The  use of appropriate technology in disseminating knowledge and information remains a major challenge for Papua New  Guinea. Given the geographical features and the demography of a sparsely populated country like Papua New Guinea,  communication is essential to link most communities in isolated islands as well as inland mountain regions. In this  regard, we applaud UNESCO’s efforts to include ICT as an area of priority activity. We also support the principles of free  flow of information, freedom of expression, and press freedom.
41.9 In conclusion, Mr President, as a country of many diverse cultures, whose people are committed to living in  peace and harmony, we recognize the challenges these embody. UNESCO has taken the lead in creating a culture of  peace in a global community. Papua New Guinea stands together with the community of nations in the UNESCO family  to achieve this goal. Thank you for your attention   (Applause)
42. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister.  Report of the UNESCO General Conference Youth Forum 2007 (34 C/INF.10)  Rapport du Forum des jeunes de la Conférence générale de l’UNESCO (2007) (34 C/INF.10)  Informe del Foro de la Juventud de la Conferencia General de la UNESCO 2007 (34 C/INF.10)  Доклад Молодежного форума 2007 г., состоявшегося в рамках Генеральной конференции ЮНЕСКО
43.1 Le Président :   Mesdames et Messieurs, chers collègues, nous sommes maintenant arrivés au dernier point de notre ordre du  jour de ce matin, qui est le rapport des représentants du Forum des jeunes.   (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
43.2 I am now pleased to give the floor to Ms Veronica Vallejo from Ecuador and to Mr Daniel Frelén, respectively  Chairperson and Rapporteur of the Youth Forum, who will present the main conclusions of the UNESCO General  Conference Youth Forum 2007. As you are all aware, the Fifth UNESCO Youth Forum of the UNESCO General  Conference was held in UNESCO Headquarters from 12 to 13 October. During these two days, young representatives  had the chance to exchange their views; they shared their experiences and they identified proposals and solutions for the  future. During this time, the Forum focused on the themes of the two ministerial-level round tables, which are, as you all  know, "Education and Economic Development", and "Science and Technology for Sustainable Development and the  Role of UNESCO". Ms Vallejo, Mr Frelén, you have the floor. I know that young people have much to tell to the General  Conference, but I would be very grateful if you could please limit your statements to roughly four minutes each. Thank  you very much.
(44.1) Ms Vallejo (Ecuador) (Chairperson of the UNESCO Youth Forum) (translation from the Spanish):   Honourable members of the General Committee, distinguished delegations of States Members of UNESCO, dear  young people, friends and companions in the struggle, ladies and gentlemen, young people are our most important investment  in the future, there is an incredible energy in young people that makes the future possible, although unpredictable; if it is poorly  channelled it can lead to disaster, properly managed it can reform society. It is often said that young people are the future of a  nation. What future can we aspire to, however, when today almost half of us live on less than $2 a day, when 400 million  decent and productive jobs are needed to raise to the maximum the potential of today’s young people, when 130 million are  illiterate and 10 million living with HIV/AIDS? We have then the right to fight for real changes, and implicit in the right to hope  for these changes is the responsibility of knowing what we must change and to what extent. The twenty-first century is a  crucial time as we are living through the youth revolution, although perhaps talking in such terms will get us classified as  premature politicians. The only thing that is certain is that young people are politicians because we are concerned by the  common good, because we want to live better lives, with health, education and dignity, because we do not like things as they  stand, and that, quite simply, is why young people are political.
(44.2) In this respect, 261 delegates from 116 States Members of UNESCO were brought together on 12 and 13 October to  produce a declaration which would express our youthful expectations and the main proposals on two themes of the utmost  importance at the international level, namely education and economic development, and technology for sustainable  development. We also had the opportunity to analyse the results of the regional youth forums. With regard to the education  theme, we young people dream of a world that generates spaces for participation so that on the basis of our diverse and  intercultural vision we can develop public policies. It is said that a nation will go where education takes it. I believe that we shall  not get far as long as illiteracy forms part of our world, together with the impossibility of universal access to education, a  deteriorating education infrastructure, the application of obsolete methodologies that do not correspond to our lives, and  increasingly vulnerable conditions in rural areas. We long to build together a world that lives up to our dreams, but in order to  do so, social policies must be linked with economic policies so that young people are no longer seen as statistics or just  numbers and the importance of our role in society starts to be recognized. The worst enemies for a young person are silence  and indifference, so we hope that today our voice will resound with the roar of a fiery volcano. We have specific, structured  proposals in the final declarations of the regional youth forums as well as in the final report of the fifth UNESCO Youth Forum,  which is at your disposal in document 34 C/INF.10.
(44.3) Given the importance of these spaces for participation, all the delegates voted to propose to you to extend the duration  of these forums, with the aim of stimulating debate. This time, we only have two days; but we know that if one really wants to  listen to young people we cannot spare efforts, resources or time. Furthermore, it was suggested that the regional youth  forums should continue to take place as they provide the foundation that enables us to identify with our specific circumstances.  In addition, it is important to stress that world youth gatherings have been taking place since 1999. It is important that the  proposals developed by the young people who preceded us do not become like books going mouldy with the passage of time.  It is important that an immediate review should be made of how many of those proposals have already been implemented, and  those remaining should be compared with the declaration that we are today presenting to you for effective implementation. It is  important to emphasize too the hard work and dedication of Dr Maria Helena Henriques Mueller, Chief of UNESCO’s Youth,  Sports and Physical Education Section. It is important for young people to be treated as a priority theme by UNESCO and its  Member States. I must also thank the Director-General, who yesterday received young people so that we could make a few  suggestions to him, and I must add that he did not make us wait. Today, in his statement, he said that our document would be  included in the programme of debate for ministers. We have not yet managed to have our voices will be heard in the  ministerial round table, although we do know that today will be the start of a next forum.
(44.4) Finally, let me to remind you that populations which decide to invest in their young people will be more prosperous  economically, more stable politically and have far less conflict than those which turn their backs on their own young. I must  refer in conclusion to the words of a young Latin American president, the economist Rafael Correa, elected by the people of  Ecuador, and who said: “My dream, from the humbleness of my dark-skinned Nation, is to see a country without poverty,  without children living in the street, a country without ostentatious wealth but one that is dignified and happy.” Let me say this  behalf of the young people of the world.  (Applause)
45.1 Mr Frelén (Sweden) (Rapporteur of the UNESCO Youth Forum):   Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished young delegates, I am  often told that my young friends and I are the future. In one aspect, that is the truth but this logic would make all of you  delegates here history. I would say that young people today are not the future and the delegates of the General  Conference present today are not part of the past. We are here together regardless of age, affecting the environment  and the society we live together in. To make a difference and to make progress, we must not forget our responsibility  both for the present and towards the future. Otherwise, our decisions will not be sustainable for the future.
45.2 The topics discussed during the General Conference are all connected to youth and containing a youth  perspective. I encourage you to read through the report of the UNESCO Youth Forum and get inspired for the future. To  deal with UNESCO questions without a youth perspective would be like dealing with politics and not including  democracy.
45.3 Mr President, delegates to the General Conference, if you look around, you will see that most of the delegates  from the UNESCO Youth Forum were not given the opportunity to stay, which is unfortunate. The Convention of Rights  of the Child states that the best interest of the child should be the main focus of decisions affecting children. For you in  this room, it is indeed a challenge to know the best interest of the youth of the world. As young people, we are experts on  our own situation. Half of the world’s population is under 26 years old, so there are many experts but not within these  walls, including you and all decision-making processes, and let us hope that the General Conference of 2009 will be a  meeting point for young and old with the UNESCO Youth Forum delegates participating in the national delegations. I  promise you will not be disappointed.
45.4 Mr President, as young citizens, we wish to contribute to the development of our societies here and now with our  full potential, creativity and force. For young people, rights are closely linked to responsibility. As the UNESCO Youth  Forum report states, a sustainable society is created by individuals with equal rights sharing the influence and  responsibility, and I am proud to stand before you here and be able to say that there are no adequate excuses. Young  people today are the best educated generation ever. We would like to thank all of you for that. Now we are ready to take  responsibility, and all you have to do is share it.
45.5 In this process, youth-led NGOs all over the world contribute to reducing the gap between where decisions are  made and where they are implemented. I encourage UNESCO and the Member States to develop cooperation with  youth-led NGOs to a greater extent.
45.6 Finally, most of the people in politics today are between 50 and 59 years old. In a not-too-distant future, there is  a risk that democracy will dry out like a well in the desert. This could be prevented if youths are allowed into arenas of  decision-making. And remember, young people are not here to replace you but we, as well as you, want to get a chance  to contribute to a sustainable society. It is your responsibility to let new people enter the decision-making processes, and  it is our responsibility to make the best of it. I would like to hand over the report and wish you the best of luck in bringing  youth participation and the youth perspective into the work of UNESCO. Thank you very much.  (Applause)
46.1 The President:   I would like to thank you very much, Mr Frelén, for your report. Honourable delegates, dear colleagues allow me  on behalf of you all to congratulate our young people for their enthusiasm and for their dedication to UNESCO. May I  suggest that we applaud them for a second time.   (Applause)
46.2 May I now invite all the programme commissions to bear in mind during their work the report of UNESCO Youth  Forum we have just listened to and received.
180  (The President continues in French)
46.3 Je vois une ou deux délégations qui ont demandé la parole. Est-ce que je peux demander à ces délégations si  elles souhaitent intervenir pour remercier les représentants du Forum des jeunes ? Dans ce cas-là, elles ont la parole.
(47.1) Ms Angélica (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you Mr President. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela congratulates the Chairperson, the Rapporteur and the  drafting committees of the fifth UNESCO Youth Forum on their work, along with UNESCO’s Youth, Sports and Physical  Education Section. Mr President, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela approves of the principles of peace and stability,  universal education, access to science and technology, scientific progress, respect for the environment, cultural diversity, and  popular participation, especially by young people, all of which are set forth in the report of the fifth UNESCO Youth Forum.  Nevertheless, our delegation wishes to express its forthright disagreement with the fundamental role the report seems to give  to the private sector with regard to economic growth, since it does not take into consideration the decisive role played by the  State in the redistribution of wealth to meet the needs of excluded sectors of the population. This proposition also ignores  other productive forms of organization that allow for a fairer participation of the population in the means of production, such as  socialist systems of production. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela also wishes to underline the negative impact of the brain  drain, especially on our Southern countries, in view of the important resources that are invested in training professionals who  should contribute to the development of our countries. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela therefore wishes to express its  total disagreement with the final draft of the sections on economic development and the loss of capital, and requests that this  statement be included in the records of this meeting.
(47.2) In conclusion, we acknowledge that the time limits on debating the valid contributions made by the delegates and the  lack of an opportunity to vote on the final version of the document made it impossible to reach a consensus on this report. We  therefore suggest to the General Conference that it allow more time for participation in the Youth Forum and take into  consideration the recommendations that we should make in the committee created for this purpose, with a view to taking  account of the innovative and positive contributions that young people can make to the process of policy-making at UNESCO.  Thank you very much, Mr President.
48. Le Président :   Je voudrais remercier l’honorable représentant de la République bolivarienne du Venezuela pour son  intervention, dont nous avons pris bonne note. Et en vous priant tous d’être brefs dans vos interventions, je donne la  parole à la délégation de l’Australie.
49.1 Mr Wu (Australia):   Thank you, Sir. Australia welcomes the report of the Fifth UNESCO Youth Forum, a useful and persuasive  segment of the concerns and aspirations of the 261 young participants from around the world. Australia has been a long- time supporter of youth involvement in UNESCO’s decision-making. Our National Commission for UNESCO includes  both a young member and youth network, and we note it with satisfaction that this UNESCO Youth Forum is the largest  in UNESCO’s history, with a record number of participants. Young people are a valuable part of the global community,  are key participants and contributors to many UNESCO programmes, and are impacted by UNESCO’s decisions, and  hence should be included in UNESCO’s decision-making.
49.2 The UNESCO Youth Forum is a practical mechanism that harnesses the specific knowledge and fresh  perspectives of young people to foster a better understanding of young people’s issues to ensure that UNESCO’s  programmes and decisions are relevant and appropriate to them. The UNESCO Youth Forum is a way to build  partnerships with young people, a way to provide opportunities for them to develop new skills and friendships, and to  have the satisfaction of creating positive change in the global community. UNESCO has been a leader in the  international community engaging young people, and we note with satisfaction several recent innovations of the fifth  UNESCO Youth Forum which we think are particularly useful. First is the employment of regional youth forums, which
181  Australia considers an effective way to identify and discuss regional needs and develop regional responses. Second is  the alignment of the UNESCO Youth Forum agenda with those of the two ministerial round tables, and the provision of  seats reserved for young people at the round tables themselves. However, we are concerned that partly as a reduction in  the duration of the UNESCO Youth Forum from the customary three days to two, the participants did not have sufficient  time to vote on the final version of the report.
49.3 Australia supports youth participation based on the principles of empowerment, inclusion, purposeful  engagement and encouragement, and would support the reintroduction of a process through which young people are  given a sufficient opportunity to work to produce authoritative, relevant and useful input into UNESCO discussions.  Australia congratulates the participants of the Fifth UNESCO Youth Forum, and the Youth, Sports and Physical  Education Section, which supported them in producing a useful report, and looks forward to the future efficient and  effective engagement of young people in UNESCO’s decision-making. Thank you.
50. Le Président :   Merci, Monsieur. J’ai encore trois orateurs sur ma liste et je voudrais vous proposer de clore ensuite le débat. Il  s’agit d’Andorre, du Qatar et des États-Unis d’Amérique. Ensuite, je vous proposerai de lever notre séance de ce matin.  Le rapport du Forum des jeunes nous a été remis. Il sera distribué à l’ensemble des commissions, et vos délégations  auront l’occasion de le commenter la semaine prochaine lors du travail des commissions. Je vous remercie pour votre  compréhension et je donne la parole à l’honorable représentant de la Principauté d’Andorre.
51.1 M. Mateu (Andorre) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. La Principauté d’Andorre se joint sans réserves aux déclarations faites par  Mlle Vallejo et par M. Frelén. Notre intervention vise à attirer l’attention sur l’importance de ce Forum. La Principauté  d’Andorre se félicite de la réussite de la cinquième édition du Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO, qui a connu un succès  sans précédent, avec 261 participants, dont 174 délégués de 116 pays. Nous accueillons donc de façon très positive le  rapport qui nous est présenté. Nous nous félicitons également du succès du Forum régional organisé à Chypre en  novembre 2006. De jeunes Andorrans participent au Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO depuis sa première session  de1999 et ils ont pris part au Forum régional en 2006.
51.2 Le Forum des jeunes de l’UNESCO doit créer un véritable espace de dialogue et d’échange d’idées pour les  jeunes de la planète, qui représentent, avec les enfants, la moitié de la population mondiale. En mettant en place des  réseaux de communication et d’échange entre les jeunes de différents États membres, cette initiative de l’UNESCO  donne la possibilité aux jeunes de faire entendre leur voix ; nous la saluons vivement. Nous nous devons d’être  particulièrement attentifs à préserver cette tribune d’échanges à l’avenir et d’en optimiser le mécanisme de  fonctionnement. Nous attendons donc avec intérêt les conclusions et les recommandations du Comité consultatif du  cinquième Forum des jeunes, quant au format, à la structure, au fonctionnement et à l’impact que devrait avoir ce Forum.  Les jeunes étant l’avenir, et même le présent, de notre société, ce Forum doit remplir la mission de l’UNESCO en leur  offrant de travailler pour la paix et le dialogue interculturel tout en utilisant les nouvelles technologies. Mettons à la  disposition des jeunes la tribune qu’ils désirent pour faire entendre leur voix et participer activement à la construction de  notre avenir en tant que citoyens du monde. Merci de votre attention.
(53) Mr Zainal (Qatar) (translation from the Arabic)   Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank the Chairperson of the Forum and the Rapporteur who have both done  an outstanding job. In my brief contribution, I should like to emphasise what a colleague said: Given its importance, how nice it  would be if the Youth Forum were given greater opportunity in the future. Personally, I noticed among the youth participating  from the State of Qatar an eagerness to attend the Forum and noted how much they benefited from taking part in it. However,  I was also surprised by the level which the youth of today have attained. We, the Permanent Delegates resident here, have  perhaps been rather remote from our countries for a number of years by virtue of the exercise of our duties, while the youth in  my country have been developing rapidly. Actually, it was a very pleasant surprise to find that our youth are open, aware,  cultured and educated to a high level of knowledge. This is something honourable and gives us confidence in the future, which  such youth will steer. Also, of course, everyone knows that this encounter brings together youth from the whole world, thereby  making them open to one another and appreciative of the values of tolerance, understanding and acceptance of the other.  They see with their own eyes that difference is not a source of conflict but that difference and diversity are sources of  enrichment. We hope that youth shall be able to do what our generation was incapable of doing. I thank such fine, promising  youth. Thank you, Mr President.
54. The President:   Thank you, Sir, it is now my pleasant duty to give the floor to the representative of the United States of America.
55.1 Mr Zemek (United States of America):   Thank you. Myself, along with a young woman from a volunteer organization in the United States of America,  Americorp, participated in both a regional Youth Forum and this Fifth UNESCO Youth Forum. These forums, while they  can be more efficient, do provide an excellent opportunity for dialogue and sharing of knowledge. The responsibility of  addressing the issues our world faces today rests with youth and with those with more years under their belts. The topics  we addressed are much the same issues examined by this General Conference and the side events of the Ministerial  Round Tables on "Education and Economic Development" and "Science and Technology for Sustainable Development  and the Role of UNESCO". As youth, for the most part, we were able to cut through the politics that often bog down other  venues. The group expressed the importance of quality education, with the core focus being on literacy and life skills that  aid in all aspects of empowerment and development, be it personal, economic or political, and the importance of  technology to address world issues, from environmental to health to education, this technological advancement can only  be achieved through creativity, and freedom is at the core of fostering this creativity.
55.2 The group stressed concrete areas where youth can play a role, such as in the areas of volunteerism,  entrepreneurial apprenticeships and exchange programmes. It recognized the important role that partnerships and  coordination with NGOs, private sector and other United Nations agencies play in helping achieve these aims. Thank you  and thank you for the report.
56. The President:   Thank you, Sir, as I was telling you, the written text of your report is becoming a document, 34 C/INF.10, and it  will be made available in the meeting room of each commission so that we can integrate in our further work the  recommendations from the Forum. Before closing the seventh plenary session, I would like to give the floor to the  Secretary of our session for a short announcement.  Announcement  Annonce  Anuncio  Сообщение    通知
57. The Secretary:   Thank you Mr President. I would kindly ask all delegates to be in their places very promptly at 3 p.m. We have
16 speakers this afternoon, and we need to close the meeting by 5.30 p.m. in order to be able to prepare this room for  the cultural evening of Greece. Thank you very much.
58. The President:   Thank you Mr Secretary. I now declare the meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h 25  Se levanta la sesión a las 13.25  Заседание закрывается в 13.25  א א١,٢٥א   会议于 13 时 25 分结束