1. The President:   I would like to declare our fifth plenary session open and to thank very much the colleagues who despite some  transport difficulties this morning have come in substantial numbers to be with us so we could start and continue our  general policy debate in earnest, and I would also like to thank all colleagues very much because they have contributed a  lot in order that we can go on with the policy debate at an acceptable pace – I would have liked it even better but it has  been a good pace – that I must acknowledge, and I must thank you very much for that. I am going to ask His Excellency  Mr Sam Condor, Vice Premier and Minister of Education of Saint Kitts and Nevis, to take the floor. Is Mr Condor here?  So we will have our first speaker to start the debate. Please, sir.
2.1 Mr Condor (Saint Kitts and Nevis):   Mr President of the General Conference, Chairperson, Director-General, distinguished ambassadors,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. UNESCO’s commitment to education is indeed inspiring and encouraging, since we  truly believe, that education is the key that will unlock the doors to poverty alleviation and economic growth and  development. I give thanks for the opportunity afforded me to address this impressive 34th session of the General  Conference and wish at the outset to congratulate the Director-General and his staff for the very successful programme  executed during this last biennium. In fact, Mr Chairman, allow me to proffer sincere congratulations to the Director- General for undertaking a visit to my country last year, the very first visit by a Director-General, and for personally  launching the Caribbean Youth Poverty Alleviation through Tourism and Heritage (Youth PATH) project in Saint Kitts and  Nevis. We give thanks for the Director-General’s friendship and commitment to the Organization’s goals. The Federation  of Saint Kitts and Nevis enjoys a most meaningful and productive relationship with this august body, which has been  further enhanced during the last two years when, for the first time, our nation was honoured to serve on the Executive  Board.
2.2 My delegation attends this 34th session of the General Conference with great enthusiasm and expectation, as  our Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis navigates a challenging period of economic and social transition from our
350 year-old sugar industry. It is important to note that the socio-economic transformation that we are undergoing is, in  great measure, a result of globalization coupled with the geographical insularity and remoteness associated with small  island developing States (SIDS). This has definitely placed our citizens at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis the rest of  the world. Our success at transformation will materialize with adequate and relevant reform in education and the related  institutions. We are depending on the capacity-building expertise from international agencies, such as UNESCO, to see  us through.
2.3 Your strategic emphasis on education policy, which must be fully consistent with the Millennium Development  Goals (MDGs), is therefore welcomed as an integral part of my country’s evolving development plan. Mr President,  quality education remains a high priority on my government’s agenda to fuel our economic stability and enhance social  mobility. We are, therefore, pleased to note that quality education for all (EFA) is at the centre of the medium-term goals  in your overarching objectives, and is also enshrined in the strategic programme objectives. There is clear consensus at  all levels in Saint Kitts and Nevis, that if we are to survive and prosper in a changing world, an efficient system that  delivers a sound, high-quality education, is an absolute necessity for us as a small island developing State.
2.4 It is evident that we are negotiating challenging times and need all the assistance and innovations that could be  afforded us. We believe strongly that the National Commission in Saint Kitts and Nevis and the UNESCO experts in Paris  have a critical role to play in communicating this priority at the transnational level. We graciously accept your  commitment to serve. I am determined that at home UNESCO is seen as a major player in the development of our  people. I believe, however, that there is a need to enhance the level of networking and partnership-building between our  National Commission and UNESCO Headquarters, if we are to facilitate and improve on the knowledge-sharing and the  dissemination of UNESCO’s programmes at all levels of civil society.
2.5 Mr President, we recognize UNESCO’s emphasis on the value of information and communication technologies  (lCTs) in poverty eradication, and enhanced learning and education at all levels. We, however, believe that the time has  come for UNESCO to extend this philosophy in addressing the needs of disadvantaged, remote-based and marginalized  populations. Special attention must now be afforded the least developed countries (LDCs) and the small island  developing States towards building more robust prevention and mitigation mechanisms associated with natural disasters.  This is especially imperative in our region, where we are continuously exposed to the negative impact of global warming  and climate change, which frequently result in massive environmental damage, caused by rising sea levels, hurricanes,  and floodings.
2.6 All of the areas I have just mentioned fall within the key competencies of UNESCO, on which, Mr President, this  Organization delivers capacity-building assistance to Saint Kitts and Nevis under the auspices of the Participation  Programme, of which we are very appreciative. My government, none the less, is of the view that UNESCO should seek  to reinforce international cooperation and to cultivate partnerships among the various stakeholders in its different arenas  of competence, operating at the global, regional, subregional and local levels. I would like also to stress the importance  of the building of human and institutional capacities in all of UNESCO’s areas of competency to empower Member States
101  to respond to the multidimensional and contemporary challenges they face, including the challenge of building  knowledge-based societies.
2.7 In short, Saint Kitts and Nevis applauds the activities and outputs of UNESCO, mindful of the fact that we have  benefited tremendously from our membership of and association with this highly regarded international institution. We  nevertheless believe that more could be derived from the use of best practices promulgated by UNESCO so as to enable  us to further our economic and social development. We rest assured that UNESCO will rise to these challenges, as it has  so ably done in the past, may it please you.   (Applause)
(4.1) Mr Al-Baghdadi (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu  llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of God be upon you). Mr President of the General Conference, Your
102  Excellency the Chairperson of the Executive Board, Your Excellency the Director-General, I congratulate and appreciate your  excellent preparations for this Conference. Permit me to get straight to the point. This venerable Organization was formed  some 60 years ago, after the Second World War. The Organization undertook, by means of the three goals on which it was  founded, to strive to safeguard peace and security by promoting education, science and culture in order to ensure universal  respect for justice, the rule of law and human rights. This is what our Organization undertook and this has been its  fundamental aim for some 60 years. Unfortunately, however, despite the outstanding efforts made by our Organization and  others, war still rages and the world still experiences many problems and disasters. Clear examples of these are what is  happening in Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia and the intimation and threat of war in Iran and Syria. The right to a life of dignity  is still not guaranteed and adequate work does not exist. The necessary housing is not available and the right of movement,  the right of expression and human rights are stifled. I do not minimize the role this Organization has played and the  outstanding efforts which others have made but unfortunately, after 60 years, this is the result. A long time ago, we undertook  in one of the fundamental purposes of this Organization that we would recommend such agreements as may be necessary to  promote the free flow of ideas by word and image. Unfortunately, however, the world today is experiencing, as it has done for  a long time, a powerful monopoly of information by the major countries which has led to some students from third world  countries being prevented from studying the exact sciences. And it goes further than that, as there is a theft of the intellects of  third world scientists and intellectuals attracted to the developed countries, quite apart from the relentless monopoly of the  media.
(4.2) The second goal upon which this Organization was founded is that it works to achieve equality of educational  opportunity without regard to race, sex or economic situation. In spite of the excellent efforts made by this Organization, the  outstanding contributions made by some countries and the concern and notable success of my country in particular in this  area – whereby there is no student or pupil of school age in my country who has not gone to school, in addition to the  incorporation of technical and vocational education into the educational system – when we look around us at Africa and Asia,  we find millions of pupils of school age who have not gone to school and whose countries have no idea about computers and  technology, quite apart from those displaced by disasters and wars. Compulsory education needs to be carefully re-examined.  Minds can only be liberated with a free education, so that the child learns the knowledge he or she wants and that is suitable  for him or her.
(4.3) Sixty years ago, this Organization undertook to protect the world’s heritage of books, works of art and antiquities. We  pledged this to the world and attempted to do so. But what has happened? Antiquities, historical acquisitions and manuscripts  have been and are being subject to unparalleled pillaging. Antiquities were pillaged in the colonial period and my country is a  very good example of this. Under the eyes and ears of this Organization and other organizations in the world, the intellect of  humanity has been stolen namely, the antiquities of Iraq, quite apart from all the antiquities of other countries. Jerusalem is  being transformed and destroyed under the eyes of many international organizations and perhaps with their agreement. We  undertook to ensure the independence of cultures and educational systems and to guarantee their security and diversity. We  said that we would refrain from intervening in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of States, but what  has happened? What has happened is that the big States have interfered in small States and intervened directly in their affairs,  imposing their culture and hegemony upon them. They have gone so far as to be contemptuous of their religious practices and  abuse their prophets. You will recall the abuse to which our Prophet, Muh ammad God bless him and grant him salvation, was  subjected, quite apart from the direct involvement in the changing by force of the curriculum in several States. Your  Excellencies, brothers and heads of delegation, this is something which shall not be achieved by noble appeals and wishful  thinking. It requires a real cultural revolution to demolish the current system of education, which has given birth to the culture  of terrorism, the culture of violence, the culture of extremism and the culture of war. The war going on right now in many parts  of the world is the result of an oppressive and exploitative governmental culture. Accordingly, we need a cultural revolution to  destroy the system of education which currently exists and build upon its ruins a humanitarian, educational culture to realize  justice and equality of opportunity. What is happening in the world is in the interests of dictatorial governments, not in the  interests of the people. It is in the interest of governments that wars continue and in the interest of exploitative companies that  the gap between the rich and poor widens. The real solution is for the masses to seize power directly, without proxy or  representation and without imposture, for the people have no interest in war but in development. This shall not come about by  chance but by careful reading. If you would like to know how it shall be brought about, read the book written by humanity  through its long sufferings and entrusted to Muammar al-Qadhafi – read The Green Book. As-salāmu ‘alaikum (Peace be upon  you).  (Applause)
5. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, and now we would like to ask His Excellency, Mr Stefan Wallin, Minister of  Culture and Sport in Finland, to take the floor.
6.1 Mr Wallin (Finland):   Thank you, Mr President, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General, distinguished guests,  dear colleagues. First let me start by saying that Finland concurs with the statement made by Portugal on behalf of the  European Union and welcomes Singapore back to the fold of the Organization.
6.2 Finland places renewed emphasis on securing progress on the management reform. We welcome the  establishment of the Ethics Office and acknowledge the work of the International Oversight Service (IOS). We call for  cost-effectiveness and improved results-based reporting and evaluation practices. Effective results-based management  optimizes the use of resources available, particularly for those who have the most to gain from the reform. I borrow Mr  Ban Ki-moon’s words in saying that “we also need an internal climate change in the United Nations”. Today’s realities  require that we keep on rationalizing the working methods of the three organs, including the Executive Board. It is  apparent that it has difficulties in living up to its tasks, partly due to the fact that it is simply too big.
6.3 With the Draft Programme and Budget and the Medium-Term Strategy at hand, it is obvious that we, the  Member States are, again, asking UNESCO to do too much with too few resources. The drafts are ambitious. We need  to be more realistic and narrow the gap between aspiration and achievement. Otherwise we will have more transpiration  than achievement. We emphasize quality results and a stronger focus on priorities over rhetoric. We would like to see a  better balance between the allocations for programmes and those for administration. Activities of less relevance need to
103  be dropped. By balancing between normative and operational activities, UNESCO should focus its action on policy  advice and on capacity-building. UNESCO should help countries to translate objectives into effective policy  recommendations and into action in the field.
6.4 Top priorities need proper allocations. Therefore, within the $631 million envelope, Finland would like to ensure  increased funding for education for all (EFA), for the implementation and follow-up of the science review and of the  UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), as well as for the implementation and staffing of the  Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions.
6.5 Mr President, just past the midpoint of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) target date of 2015, it is of  paramount importance that we focus on practical action steps. It is crucial to meet the special needs of women and of  Africa. To this end, Finland has co-submitted a number of resolutions to benefit UNESCO’s education institutes, such as  the UNESCO International Institute for Capacity-Building in Africa (IICBA), and the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS)  – this at the cost of some general services and travel costs. Distinguished delegates, we welcome your support on these  initiatives.
6.6 Cross-cutting areas of gender equality, sustainable development and human rights need to be taken properly  into account. The promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms should remain a priority for  action. Finland underlines the rights-based approach in the programmes. Gender equality is a fundamental human right,  a question of social justice and a core value. The promotion of gender equality and the enjoyment of human rights by  women and girls are goals in their own right and instrumental to achieving internationally agreed development goals.  There are close links between sustainable achievements in development, notably poverty reduction, and the  empowerment of women. Access to educational opportunities is a right, not a privilege. UNESCO should work further on  its global mandate to coordinate and develop quality education for all. When saying all, we mean all, including marginal  and vulnerable groups.
6.7 Freedom of expression and association are touchstones of human rights. Without freedom of expression,  without access to information and ideas, and the freedom to spread them, even the most advanced information and  communications technology (ICT) apparatus is irrelevant at best and a potential tool for repression at worst. Free and  independent media are the lifeblood of a true knowledge society. UNESCO should continue to work for the safety of  journalists and develop capacities for communication. The Information for All Programme (IFAP) should be discontinued  in its present form.
6.8 A top priority of the cultural programme is the implementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion  of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. The budget should ensure sufficient financial and human resources. We are  encouraged by the fact that there are so many initiatives under way promoting dialogue between cultures. UNESCO is  not tackling this agenda alone. We look forward to fruitful cooperation between UNESCO and the Alliance of Civilizations  to ensure that the so-called “clash of civilizations” will never become more than the title of a book. UNESCO is well  positioned to work with the Alliance of Civilizations, particularly in the key areas of education, media and youth.
6.9 The International Convention Against Doping in Sport has given UNESCO a crucial role in the global fight  against doping. The first great challenge is to respond to the new requirements of the revised World Anti-Doping Code  (WADA). I am pleased to announce that Finland has committed to contributing annually to the voluntary fund.
6.10 Mr President, the United Nations’ process of reforming its operational activities is a long-standing priority for us.  It is crucial to agree on measures that will strengthen the United Nations’ capacity to “Deliver as One”. We acknowledge  UNESCO’s timely involvement in the process. We call for impact in the field, more unified approaches and enhanced  cooperation, coherence and coordination among all relevant actors. This entails a strengthening of the relationship with  civil society.
6.11 UNESCO’s future will be evaluated on its programme and efforts today. Facing these challenges is the need of  the hour and demands a collective, multidisciplinary approach. We must ensure that in the coming years UNESCO  provides expert analysis of the challenges and opportunities of globalization, a forum for dialogue and consensus  building and a programme and strategy focused on policy advice, capacity-building and harnessing knowledge for  development. Mr President, thank you very much.  (Applause)
7. The President:   Thank you for your very clear presentation of different ideas. I would now like to ask His Excellency Mr Fernando  Haddad, Minister of State at the Ministry of Education of Brazil, to come and take the floor. Mr Haddad.
8.1 Mr Haddad (Brazil) (address delivered in Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by stressing that the eighth Millennium Development Goal –  that is the global partnership for development – has so far been the least discussed or implemented one. However, such  partnership is essential for the fulfilment of the seven other goals, and it cannot be carried out solely by the poor  countries. The eighth goal requires the commitment of the richest countries to assist the poorest so that they can  overcome the structural obstacles that keep them trapped in poverty. Brazil is committed, despite its economic  constraints, to the construction of major partnerships within the scope of South-South cooperation. South America,  Portuguese-speaking countries, and many other countries of Latin America and Africa have benefited from Brazilian  cooperation, which is, above all, based on solidarity. UNESCO, in view of its moral weight and its vocation, must play a  central role in supporting the eighth Millennium Development Goal by building worldwide partnerships for technical and  financial international cooperation within its fields of competence.
8.2 In the field of education, I wish first of all to stress a conceptual element. Brazil considers education to be a  public good, and not a commodity, subject to the rules of market and profit. A few months ago, President Lula da Silva  launched the Education Development Plan, comprising an historic set of measures which deals in a systemic way with  the educational challenges facing Brazil at all levels. The Plan is based on the principle whereby education constitutes a  responsibility of the State, but it is also a social effort to be pursued beyond school, i.e. in the family, in the community  and in all other areas of social interaction, especially the workplace. In this sense, education requires major mobilization  and social awareness, as well as solid accountability mechanisms, in order to contribute to the national development  strategy. This systemic vision of our plan has allowed us to overcome the false dichotomies between levels of education,  since it is not possible to develop basic education alone without also taking higher education into consideration, nor is it  possible to separate scientific education from professional training. One of the plan’s most relevant aspects is the  provision of support to teachers, including in terms of their salaries. As I said, Brazil is pledged to strengthening  international South-South cooperation in education – particularly in the context of the education for all (EFA) programme  and of the E-9 Countries – as well as triangular North-South-South cooperation. We support the recently established  South-South Cooperation Fund, to which we are making an initial contribution of $40,000. We also enthusiastically  support cooperation with the Fast-Track Initiative Donors Group.
8.3 However, it is not sufficient to mobilize additional resources. It is fundamental to make available to UNESCO,  international agencies and bilateral mechanisms of cooperation a pool of projects based on the best educational  practices deployed in other countries, in our countries. In this regard, Brazil intends to organize, next year, an  international seminar for the presentation and sharing of successful large-scale programmes already implemented in  Brazil as well as in other developing countries in areas such as educational financing, scholarships, quality assessment,  school nourishment, free distribution of textbooks and teachers’ training. Our intention is to consolidate a portfolio of best  practices, which will set new bases for international cooperation, founded on consolidated programmes at the national  level, which can be reproduced as public policies in other developing countries.
8.4 With respect to higher education, Brazil greatly supports the efforts made by the UNESCO International Institute  for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean (IESALC), in relation to which universities serve as agents for  the transformation of the educational system as a whole. Brazil has supported several IESALC projects financially, such  as the World Conference on Higher Education to be held in 2009 and the Preparatory Regional Conference to be held in  Cartagena in 2008. In the field of literacy and adult and youth education, Brazil will be honoured to host the Sixth  International Conference on Adult Education (CONFINTEA VI) in May 2009.
8.5 In the field of culture, Brazil actively participates in the international effort to support national policies for the  promotion and conservation of cultural expressions embodied in the material and intangible heritages, in harmony with  the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Brazil is committed to the  economic evaluation of cultural industries by means of tax incentives and recognizes its role in economic development.  More than a mere instrument of growth, culture is an end in itself, in view of its importance for the affirmation of national,  regional and civilizational identities. Given its national formation, with its secular experience of ethnic-cultural cross- fertilization, Brazil rejects the so-called “conflict of civilizations” or “clash of civilizations” and vehemently defends the  dialogue among civilizations.
8.6 In the field of science and technology, Brazil is reducing the gap between scientific research and its application  to the production sector. In this regard, I signed, along with President Lula, a law for tax incentives for the national  production of science and technology on the basis of public-private partnerships. Moreover, Brazil has increased twofold,  in four years, its centres for technological and professional education. At present, Brazil occupies the 15th place among  all countries worldwide in scientific production, with a growth four times above the world average. Soon we will be among  the top ten countries in terms of the production of science and technology.
8.7 The model of international cooperation developed by Brazil in this area is specific. We are not interested in the  so-called brain drain and tied aid. We are endeavouring to contribute to the endogenous creation of capacities in the  developing world. By means of local training of human resources, Brazil is assisting countries in Latin America and Africa  to consolidate their graduate studies and research programmes.
8.8 In the sphere of communication, Brazil will hold, next November, in Rio de Janeiro, the Second Internet  Governance Forum, where the main partners in the building of knowledge societies are expected to adopt by consensus  important elements of that. I would like to underline the strong expansion of remote education in Brazil, especially in the  realm of Brazil’s Open University. Brazil would like to reiterate its support for innovative cooperation mechanisms, such  as the conversion of foreign debt into investments in education. UNESCO must strengthen international technical  cooperation, making available a pool of projects based on the best national practices. Brazil is taking the first step in this  direction. Thank you.  (Applause)
9. Le Président :   Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur le Ministre. Vous nous avez dit des choses intéressantes, et vous avez  tenu à nous démontrer les progrès que le Brésil a réalisés. Nous serions heureux que vous suscitiez une émulation  générale sur ce chapitre. Je voudrais maintenant demander à Son Excellence Madame María del Carmen Aceña de  Fuentes, Ministre de l’éducation du Guatemala, de prendre la parole.
(10.1) Ms Aceña de Fuentes (Guatemala) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the 34th General Conference, congratulations on your recent election. Mr Chairperson of the  Executive Board of UNESCO, Mr Director-General, ministers and secretaries of state, ladies and gentlemen: good morning.  Guatemala is a country with 12 million inhabitants and a great cultural diversity; it is the birthplace of the Mayan culture, lying  at the heart of America. We generate one third of the gross domestic product, have abundant resources and are among the  countries whose development is classified as moderate.
(10.2) Four years ago, when we agreed to enter the Ministry of Education, we visited schools around the country and asked  the children: “What is your dream?” What we found really terrible was that no children could say what their aspirations were for  the years to come. The worst of all was when we asked a teacher why the children of Guatemala did not dream and she  replied: “Because they are poor and so they cannot dream”. Then we realized that poverty in our countries is not only a  question of material lack but also a challenge owing to the fact that poverty is in our minds and spirits and sometimes we have  no hope.
(10.3) For many different reasons, most Guatemalans had lost the ability to dream. We yearned for the future but there was  little promise, we were tied to our recent history and had stopped thinking that we could become a better country. Most  Guatemalans survived rather than living the lives we wanted. That is when we started asking how a country with no aspirations  could achieve the Millennium Development Goals; how could a country like ours achieve education for all, if children had no  aspirations beyond the short and medium terms. Then we set about changing that mindset. The first task was to ensure that all  children and young people in our country can dream and that those dreams can become reality thanks to education. We faced  major challenges in education as there was no coverage, no quality and no funding. We had a totally centralized system that  was centred on activities and not on results. We decided to bring about change and set about working; we designed a vision  and gave our ministry a meaning and built a team with a team spirit, providing inspiration for all the boys, girls and young  people in our country to dream and turn those dreams into reality. We are implementing innovative, creative and inspiring  projects involving all Guatemalans and we want to do this from bottom to top rather than top to bottom, involving mothers and  fathers, society, children, students, from bottom to top, starting at the classroom itself, where education is given.
(10.4) Although we face great challenges, we have had a real response from society. Thanks to our groundbreaking projects  we have now achieved almost 96% coverage. Ten years ago when the peace agreement was signed only 8 in 10 children  attended primary school. We have also increased secondary school coverage by 25%. Illiteracy is a thing of the past century.  We reduced it from 29% to 24% in only three years. We have also changed quality because part of the children’s dreams is to  have the tools at school that allow them to succeed, and therefore we are also working on a system of quality with standards,  by means of a curricular reform tied to an assessment system. We learned a lot from the other countries we visited, as we just  heard form the Finnish Minister. We also found that it is very important for our children who do not speak Spanish to learn to  read and write in their own language. Over 20 languages are spoken in our country and 70% of children now are being  educated in their own language. We have also doubled physical education as part of the school curriculum, and introduced  artists to the classroom to help children aspire to being artists. We are also focusing extramural and intramural education on  training for work, in which we have been given considerable support from UNESCO.
(10.5) At the National Science and Technology Council we are devising a plan in a participatory way. We have a national  network of scientists in which Guatemalans take part alongside scientists from other countries, assisting us in the use of world  class technology in a developing country. We are also encouraging all young people to take part in the Science Olympics so  that they can meet scientists around the world and be inspired to turn their dreams into reality. We are bridging the digital  divide, and improving competitiveness. We are installing computer laboratories in all State secondary schools and have a pilot  project to develop technology in the classroom at primary level. We are opening up the future by giving every teacher a  computer as part of a vision that by 2008 every child entering the fifth grade of primary school will have a personal computer. It  is not our intention ever to replace teachers but a computer increases the number of books a child has access to and with  computers we enable those children to become readers. Moreover, we have designed a new management model in order to  increase the ability to manage resources and bring decision-making closer to the people. We now have the best and most  sophisticated information system in Latin America, certified ISO 9000:2001, and the aim is to achieve transparent procedures  that the public can grasp. The educational community is taking part through 15,000 school boards whose members include  parents and teachers, administering their own finances and designing an educational project for each school.
(10.6) We are very happy that things are changing in Guatemala. We have the support of civil society and the media. We are  opening a debate in which education is a priority. Thanks to President Berger, we are working to strengthen the social fabric  and that is where UNESCO has lent a great deal of support so that we could carry out these reforms and give back  Guatemalans the ability to dream. I should like to conclude by thanking UNESCO for helping us to begin to turn our dreams  into reality, for helping us to maintain that collective hope that where there is a will, there is a way. And that child Eduardo, who  we all recall had no dreams in the beginning, is now a great artist because he has a teacher who guides and supports him and  teaches him that goals can be achieved if there is a plan and an ethic. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I call on  everyone to join with us to work for more and better education in our countries. Thank you very much.
11. Le Président :   Je vous remercie beaucoup, Madame la Ministre, ou Madame le Ministre (comme les Français n’ont pas encore  tranché, on peut employer les deux formules). Je voudrais maintenant donner la parole à Son Excellence  Monsieur Marlon Brevé Reyes, Ministre de l’éducation du Honduras.
(12.1) Mr Reyes (Honduras) (translation from the Spanish):   Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Chair of the Executive Board of UNESCO, Mr Deputy Director-General,  Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, on behalf of the Government of Honduras, allow me to congratulate you on  your widely acclaimed election and to wish you success in guiding the work of the General Conference. We should also like to  thank and congratulate the outgoing President for his excellent work and we wish to extend these congratulations to the Chair  of the Executive Board. Honduras warmly applauds the return of Singapore to the Organization and welcomes the new  Member State of Montenegro.
(12.2) Mr President, the role of UNESCO in the field of education is vital and must continue to be its main mission. Honduras  views the progress in UNESCO’s Education Sector reform with optimism and predicts a successful future for the Assistant  Director-General for Education, Mr Nicholas Burnett. We hope that we can continue to rely on UNESCO for support so that we  can offer quality, value-based education to all our citizens. We are pleased that UNESCO has been designated to as lead  agency for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development 2005-2014. Honduras is fully committed to  the Dakar Goals and is participating actively with a view to making significant progress on the Global Action Plan on Education  for All. I should like to mention the following accomplishments in my country: in one year, we have achieved 40% coverage in  preschool education and 90% coverage for the first six years of basic education. We have validated a basic national  curriculum country-wide, the fundamental premise of which is strengthening the subjects of Spanish and mathematics. We  have promoted multilingual intercultural education, in Spanish and seven ethnic languages. Another significant achievement is  the drafting of a new General Law on education, which will establish the legal and technical framework for the education  reform that we have begun in Honduras.
(12.3) Mr President, all these advances have been made possible by the efforts that the Government, stakeholders and civil  society of Honduras have made to implement the principles of ownership, alignment, harmonization, managing for results and  mutual accountability enshrined in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. The application of this declaration has also been  fundamental in the formulation of a strategic national plan for the education sector, which itself is a part of the poverty  reduction strategy in Honduras. We recognize that for a country to successfully apply a strategic plan in that sector, it is  necessary to identify and build various individual, organizational and institutional capacities. This is why we urge UNESCO to  continue to support Member States in the process of capacity-building.
(12.4) With regard to capacity-building, we welcome the efforts made by the Director General, with the generous support of  the Government of Japan, to promote value-based education and to encourage a culture of tolerance and mutual respect  through for comprehensive development projects for young people, particularly in the countries of Central America. Such  programmes not only bolster our education systems, but also strengthen our democracies.
(12.5) Mr President, we should also like to take this opportunity to inform you that thanks to the efforts made by the  Government and people of Honduras to protect our forests, the Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve, heritage of humanity, was  removed from the List of World Heritage in Danger at the 31st meeting of the World Heritage Committee held in New Zealand.  This underlines the importance of environmental education, and in that connection, we also congratulate Mr Albert Gore and  Dr Rajendra Pachauri on being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their work in this field. We must continue our combat  against the ecological imbalances that threaten the present and future of the Earth.
(12.6) Mr President, the UNESCO conventions Constitute a set of efficient legal rules governing the international community  and can be appreciated historically as a valuable code in the Organization’s area of responsibility. Among them, the  Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage is worthy of particular mention. It was the fruit of a  tremendous effort on the part of the Director General, who was concerned about the risks facing this important heritage of  humanity. Honduras is pleased to have ratified the Convention in 2006. Mr President, in 2008 UNESCO will celebrate the
60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and my country considers it only fair that the Organization pay  tribute to René Cassin, the principal author of the Declaration.
(12.7) Mr President, we the Member States can be proud to have elected Mr Koïchiro Matsuura as Director-General. From  the very beginning of his mandate, we witnessed a rational reform of the Organization, aimed at monitoring spending and  using funds more effectively to achieve its main purpose – supporting the efforts of the least developed populations to reach  higher levels in education, science, culture and communication. In this respect, Honduras would like to extend special thanks  to UNESCO for the cooperation it has provided in the fight against illiteracy, which has consequently been reduced to 17.5%. It  is our hope that, at the end of this General Conference, the sense of renewed hope in humanity and in the fate of humankind  will endure. We confirm our faith and our belief in UNESCO, in its fight to preserve the fundamental right of education. Thank  you very much.
13. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask His Excellency Mr Javed Ashraf, Minister of Education of  Pakistan, to please take the floor. Mr Minister.
14.1 Mr Ashraf (Pakistan):   Mr President of the General Conference, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to avail myself of this  opportunity, Mr President, to congratulate you on your election to this prestigious office. We believe that with your  wisdom and experience you will guide the deliberations of the General Conference towards its cherished goals, and I  assure you of our full support. Pakistan welcomes the admission of Montenegro and the return of Singapore to  UNESCO, which reinforces the true universality of this Organization. We look forward to working with both of them,  particularly with Singapore in our extended Asia and the Pacific family. Mr President, the forces of violence, intolerance,  ethnic and religious differences, terrorism and extremism unleashed in various parts of the world pose a serious threat to  global peace and security. Since peace is an essential element of progress, it is imperative to underscore how critical  and indispensable peace and security are. This calls for a vital and vigorous role for UNESCO in establishing a culture of  peace and creating a world free from poverty, intolerance and ignorance. We need understanding, harmony and bridge- building among all cultures and peoples through initiatives such as the Alliance of Civilizations, interfaith dialogue and  enlightened moderation.
14.2 Pakistan believes that the widening division among cultures and societies is due to prejudice, suspicion and  ignorance and not to any clash of values of civilizations. The key to countering such forces is tolerance, moderation and  education. Education is the most critical tool for alleviating poverty and empowering people in an increasingly  interconnected and globalized world. Pakistan accords high priority to education for all (EFA) and to the achievement of  its goals in collaboration with UNESCO and other partners. Countries of our region need skills-based education at  secondary level and this could be facilitated by a regional training centre to train vocational and technical teachers.
14.3 Under the dynamic leadership of President Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistan Government has been working on a  wide range of reforms aimed at establishing democratic norms, facing internal security challenges, promoting good  governance, establishing solid ground for economic development, and most importantly, instituting reforms in the  education sector in a holistic approach. The political will for education has been mobilized at the highest level, which is  evident from the government’s decision to double the education budget in real terms. Donors also have significantly  increased pledges under the Fast-Track Initiative, though actual funding is not readily available. Important steps have,  nevertheless, been taken by our government to strengthen the policy framework in the education sector. The national  education policy, which is a good mix of desirability and achievability, is on the anvil. To promote a modern, tolerant and  progressive society, a new curriculum of 27 subjects has been developed, which will be revised every five years.  Reforming the examination system is another part of the overall reform process. Mr President, the establishment of a  national education assessment system and the carrying out of the first ever national education census are among the  significant steps taken in the right direction. As a result of our commitment and policies, the literacy rate in Pakistan has
109  risen from a dismal 45% in 2001 to 56% in 2007, and is increasing very fast. We ought to achieve at least 65% in another  two years.
14.4 South Asia merits special attention by UNESCO in combating illiteracy as it is home to two-thirds of the world’s  illiterates. Whereas UNESCO cooperates actively with a host of regional and subregional organizations, its cooperation  with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) has remained minimal. We look forward to working  closely with the SAARC countries at UNESCO to establish productive linkages between the two organizations. North- South-South cooperation is another modality of such partnerships. However, Mr President, in this process, let us not  forget the largest part of UNESCO’s family that lives in the African continent. Let us also not forget the small islands that  have an equal voice and equally pressing needs and concerns. We must remain sensitive to their needs and concerns  and stand in solidarity with them.
14.5 In the realm of science, we strongly believe that an equitable share in scientific knowledge and technological  development would lead to greater economic growth, improved living conditions and a higher level of productivity.  Promoting international cooperation, disaster preparedness, the management of natural resources and social  transformation are some of the other areas where UNESCO should take the lead. This, however, will only be possible  where the social and natural science sectors within UNESCO forge strong linkages. Pakistan’s heritage dates back to
7000 BC. The Indus Valley nurtured the first literate civilization of the subcontinent, which thrived on the science and  technology and the arts and crafts of its time. We uphold and respect diversity and the preservation of our living heritage,  both tangible and intangible. We, therefore, seek an asset-based relationship with UNESCO by means of which we can  interact with each other on the basis of our cooperative advantages.
14.6 Mr President, I will conclude by emphasizing the need to seek convergence between the individual, social,  national and international dimensions for the promotion of an interdisciplinary approach encompassing education,  culture, science and information technology. In this increasingly complex world, UNESCO has a privileged role to play as  it forms the apex of the expanding international interaction between these core areas. We will strive to contribute to this  interaction while accelerating our socio-economic development, building a knowledge-based society and contributing to  peace and development in the world. Thank you sir.  (Applause)
(16.1) Mr Saad (Syrian Arab Republic) (translation from the Arabic):   Ladies and gentlemen on the podium, ladies and gentlemen in attendance, it is my pleasure on this occasion to  congratulate the President of the General Conference upon his election and to wish him every success in his task. I  congratulate the Director-General of UNESCO and his colleagues for the successful preparation and outstanding efforts which  they have made in convening this Conference and drawing up its documents, especially the Draft Medium-Term Strategy and  Draft Programme and Budget. We affirm the desire to deepen cooperation with UNESCO and its cultural and educational  activities. In this context, we should like to point out that the educational and cultural sector in Syria receives priority in  comprehensive development plans, given its fundamental role in human development. The educational development strategy  is directed toward raising the quality of education to enable it to respond to the needs of economic and social progress by  ensuring the required scientific and professional skills. Accordingly, the Ministry of Education’s preparation of national  standards for curricula at all stages of education has been a priority. The Ministry has announced a national and international  competition for the writing of textbooks and teacher’s manuals on the basis of these national standards. This affirms our desire  in Syria for openness to international scientific and educational experience, as well as national experience, to improve the  quality of curricula and textbooks. In this context, the educational system has made substantial allocation for education in  citizenship, environmental, population and health issues, the rights of the child, human rights and excellence in all subjects  and stages of education, focusing on the national principles of education policy and fostering the sense of belonging, cultural  identity and the culture of resistance as a right of all peoples whose land has been attacked and occupied. The achievement of  temporal and logical congruence has been taken into account in the development of all elements of the educational system, in  both quality and quantity, within the context of the application of free education at all stages, and compulsory, basic education  from grade 1 to grade 9. This has enabled a high proportion of the goals of the education for all (EFA) plan to be achieved,  with our schools absorbing more than 30% of the population. This is an indicator of educational and developmental  significance, with enrolment rates reaching 100% for both sexes.
(16.2) Ladies and gentlemen, while concerned international organizations, at the forefront of which is UNESCO, urge  Member States in all their documents and programmes to implement the principle of education for all, our sons and daughters  in the occupied Syrian Golan and occupied territories in Palestine are still deprived of their most basic rights in education and  endure falsification and distortion in the educational curricula through the practices of the Israeli occupation authorities in  destroying cultural and educational institutions and suppressing their history and identity, without regard to national, human,  and international considerations. This blatantly contradicts the approach of UNESCO in respect of the priorities of education  for all and its strategy to support education at national level. Here, we renew the invitation to UNESCO and the honourable  Conference to take practical measures for greater activation of the resolution adopted by the General Conference at its
33rd session regarding educational and cultural institutions in the occupied Arab territories and to exert efforts to stop such  planned, aggressive practices. Is it reasonable for quality education to exist under compulsion, occupation and organised  destruction? This question leads to another. Distinguished participants, we are all aware of the destructive effects of the plans,  actions and aggressive nature of the policies of certain States which very unfortunately control, to a large extent, the fate of the  world at the present time. These effects make us wonder about the scale of the danger threatening the world today and about  the similarity between the two sources of this danger. We all agree that blind terrorism which targets innocents is a danger to  all humanity but we should also agree that the wilful dominance of the world in such a savage manner is more dangerous and  leaves many more victims. Objective comparison shows that the fundamentalism which combines a political and religious  ideology and characterizes itself as new conservatism and whose proponents are known as new conservatives is more  dangerous than the fundamentalism which uses religion as a cover, because its first priority is the means and platforms it can  exploit to control and destroy the world a thousandfold. We must raise consciousness, through the curricula, of these two ways  of manufacturing death in equal fashion, otherwise we shall strengthen one party at the expense of the other. A striking  example of the danger of this new political fundamentalism is, perhaps, its destructive war against Iraq and the consequent  sufferings of the Iraqi people and the region. Findings and statistics confirm that millions of Iraqis have emigrated or been  killed inside the country and that approximately 1.5 million Iraqis have migrated to Syria. UNHCR confirms that, of these,  around 300,000 are students and that a large number of them have been absorbed into our schools. It is no secret that these  increasing numbers have begun to have a negative effect on the performance of the educational system in Syria. If Syria is  now bearing the burden of criminal acts committed by others against fellow Arabs, the international community should be
111  aware of this suffering and contribute to bearing these burdens. It should provide the required material and moral aid instead  of just empty words and promises, as if it were the fate of Syria to pay the price for the ambitions of the enemies of peoples  and of humanity. The cases of the Palestinians and Iraqis are witness to this. The Executive Board has adopted a decision  concerning Iraqi student refugees in Syria which we highly appreciate.
(16.3) Ladies and gentlemen, Syria, under the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad and by virtue of his wisdom and  ability to face the fateful challenges confronting us, and through his apt vision to build and advance the nation and protect its  land and dignity, stresses its desire to entrench the foundations of just and comprehensive peace, cement good relations with  the peoples of the world, deepen the culture of dialogue and mutual understanding between peoples and strengthen the right  of peoples to determine their destiny and live in security, freedom and dignity. On this basis, we affirm our right to recover the  occupied Syrian Golan by all means and the right of the Palestinian people to determine their fate and establish an  independent state on their land with Jerusalem as its capital, safe from the systematic attempts of the occupation authorities to  destroy it. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
17. The President:   Thank you very much, Minister, and I wonder whether I may now call His Excellency Dr Majed Ali Al Noaimi,  Minister of Education in Bahrain, to take the floor   א ١٨,١  ):א(א א  א א.א א א א א ، א א א א א ، אא א אא  .א
(18.1) Mr Al-Noaimi (Bahrain) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate), Mr President of the General  Conference, I should like to congratulate you on the confidence of Member States in electing you to this global position and  wish you every success. I also thank Dr Musa bin Jaafar bin Hassan on the productive efforts which he has made during his  term as President of the 33rd session of the Conference.
(18.2) Distinguished Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished Director-General, esteemed colleagues, Members of  the Executive Board, distinguished gathering, may the peace and blessings of God be upon you. It is my pleasure to address  you from this august international podium which gives concrete form to international cooperation in the fields of education,  science and culture. We are on the threshold of a new phase of cooperation to effect the Organization’s new strategy and  programmes in the service of humanity everywhere and foster the values of cooperation, peace and love among people. It is  my honour on this occasion to convey to you the greetings of the wise leadership of Bahrain and its ongoing support of this  Organization which embodies the collective international will for cooperation for the sake of progress and advancement. I am  grateful to and appreciate the efforts of all for the excellent organization and coordination of this Conference. I thank His  Excellency the Director-General and his colleagues for their first-class efforts in preparing the session documents.
(18.3) Mr President, Bahrain supports the fundamental elements of the Organization’s Medium-Term Strategy for 2008-2013,  both in terms of its priorities and means of achievement, and reaffirms the need to make greater efforts to deal with the  outstanding problems which have been on the table for many years and which have been put forward again today at this  session, such as universal access to education, the eradication of illiteracy, the spread of technology, and gender  discrimination. In most cases, the implementation of recommendations issued in respect thereof has not been sufficiently  enthusiastic and committed. We hope that the period covered by the Medium-Term Strategy shall witness a greater level of  commitment on the part of Member States and partners. It is well known that sustainable development is organically bound up  with the extent of the ability to provide employment and technology and to develop, modernize and provide universal access to  education at a clearly defined scientific level in accordance with a specific timetable. On this basis, the most significant  achievement which we in Bahrain have been able to make, by virtue of wise leadership and the effort of our people, is  primarily connected to the increased concern with the sciences, the development of education, the growth of the universities  and higher education, the concern with training and the infrastructure development in all services to achieve this. We are  constantly endeavouring to provide this to the people so that they will be better able to deal with the demands of life.  Nevertheless, we are faced by a challenge on the global front namely, how to reduce the gap between the output of the  educational system and the changing demands of the labour market as new jobs require skills and capabilities which many  jobseekers often do not possess. Bahrain is striving to address this through the initiatives of the national project to develop  education and training. Likewise, the Ministry of Education is putting in place a wide-ranging plan to develop the educational  system, making it more responsive to the needs of Bahrain in the light of the challenges of the continuous advancement in  science and technology, by improving the output of the educational system and concern with all aspects of education. There is  no doubt that we have a pressing need to benefit from the experience of UNESCO to support this venture.
(18.4) Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, distinguished gathering, my country has been honoured to be a Member of  the Executive Board for the last four years. Now we are ready to vacate this seat in order to give other countries the  opportunity to play their part in activating the role of this august Board. On this occasion, I should like to express to Your  Excellency, His Excellency the Director-General, all esteemed colleagues and the Chairperson and Members of the Executive  Board, our pleasure at being a Member of the Board. We thank those who supported, backed and aided the efforts and  initiatives of Bahrain to contribute to furthering the role of this Organization, particularly through the UNESCO-King Hamad bin  Isa Al Khalifa Prize for the Use of Information and Communication Technologies in Education. This Prize has acquired  importance in fostering the values to which this Organization appeals, including the promotion of initiatives to affirm the goals  of education for all (EFA). The number of applicants for this Prize has doubled this year from last year, highlighting its  importance and significance.
(18.5)  Distinguished participants, I take this opportunity to reaffirm the full backing and support of Bahrain for the Director- General’s initiatives announced at the 31st session concerning the restoration of the cultural heritage of Jerusalem and to  reaffirm the need to apply UNESCO resolutions relating to the protection of the cultural heritage of that Arab city. I am pleased  to welcome the return of Singapore to UNESCO and the accession of Montenegro.
(18.6) In conclusion, Mr President, I express once more my gratitude and appreciation, affirming that the Kingdom of Bahrain  shall remain forever connected to this august Organization and support it. Thank you very much. May the peace and blessings  of God be upon you.
19. Le Président :   Je tiens à vous remercier, Monsieur le Ministre. J’invite maintenant Son Excellence Madame Octavie Modert,  Secrétaire d’État à la culture, à l’enseignement supérieur et à la recherche du Luxembourg, à prendre la parole.
20.1 Mme Modert (Luxembourg) :   Merci beaucoup, Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale. Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif,  Monsieur le Directeur général, honorables délégués, Mesdames et Messieurs. Comme les orateurs qui m’ont précédée,  je voudrais vous féliciter, Monsieur le Président, de votre élection à la tête de cette 34e session de la Conférence  générale de l’UNESCO. Je suis convaincue que vous saurez diriger les travaux de cette Conférence avec le dosage  d’autorité, de diplomatie et de sagesse que requiert votre fonction.
20.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, dans quelques jours, le 27 octobre prochain, nous célébrerons le 60e anniversaire de  l’adhésion du Luxembourg à l’UNESCO. Il est vrai que mon pays était déjà représenté en la personne de M. Pierre  Frieden, alors Ministre de l’éducation nationale, à la première Conférence générale de l’UNESCO au mois de novembre
1946. Un bref extrait de son témoignage n’est pas sans intérêt. « J’ai constaté chez les dirigeants de l’UNESCO », disait- il, « une alliance fort heureuse d’élan et de sagesse, de volonté d’action et de prudence dans les réalisations, des visions  lointaines unies à un sens des réalités pratiques et des difficultés immédiates, qui inspirent confiance pour l’avenir d’une  aussi vaste et téméraire entreprise. Il faut dire qu’elle a fait un excellent départ ». Le représentant du Luxembourg avait  donc, dès la naissance de l’Organisation, le souci de son universalité. Un souci qui nous anime toujours, et je m’en  réjouis, d’autant plus que le Monténégro et Singapour ont rejoint l’UNESCO. La distinguée représentante du Portugal a  exposé, au nom des États membres de l’Union européenne et des pays candidats à celle-ci, les vues et visions qui
113  animent ces pays. Des pays qui, en suivant les principes fondamentaux de l’UNESCO, ont réussi à établir sur un  continent, jadis ensanglanté, un espace de paix, de prospérité et de stabilité.
20.3 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, je m’empresse de vous réitérer ma pleine confiance dans  votre capacité de gérer efficacement l’Organisation et de défendre sa mission intellectuelle et éthique. L’UNESCO  demeure la principale instance internationale pour relever les grands défis du monde actuel dans les domaines de  l’éducation, des sciences, de la culture et de la communication.
20.4 L’UNESCO a entamé la mise en œuvre de plusieurs conventions importantes et tout particulièrement, bien sûr,  celle de la Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel de 2003. Observateur attentif des travaux du  Comité intergouvernemental ad hoc, le Luxembourg aimerait souligner l’importance égale de la Liste représentative et de  la Liste du patrimoine culturel immatériel nécessitant une sauvegarde urgente. Les deux listes, complémentaires, se  fondent sur la même définition d’un même patrimoine et poursuivent les mêmes objectifs fondamentaux. Nous  reconnaissons, certes, qu’il importe d’accorder une priorité claire à la Liste de sauvegarde en ce qui concerne  l’attribution des ressources disponibles. Cette priorité ne doit toutefois pas mener à une dépréciation de la Liste  représentative, témoin d’une identité culturelle qui constitue l’âme des peuples ; comme l’exprimait mon homologue  algérienne, Mme Khalida Toumi, à la première réunion dudit Comité à Alger : « Le patrimoine immatériel est à l’identité  des peuples ce qu’est la carte A.D.N au génome humain ».
20.5  Et c’est exactement cette conviction qui pousse le Luxembourg à proposer pour l’inscription sur la future Liste  représentative du patrimoine culturel immatériel de l’humanité une manifestation traditionnelle très ancienne, à savoir la  procession dansante d’Echternach, intimement liée à l’histoire et à l’identité culturelle de notre pays et de toute une  région, bien au-delà de nos propres frontières nationales. Cette procession, bien connue à travers l’Europe et bien au- delà, a lieu chaque année le mardi de Pentecôte en l’honneur de Saint Willibrord, dont la ville d’Echternach fêtera le
1 350e anniversaire de la naissance l’année prochaine, en 2008.
20.6 Dans le même ordre d’idées, et en vue de contribuer à la visibilité du patrimoine immatériel, le groupe informel  de contact du Groupe électoral I consacrera une journée de réflexion et d’échange de données d’expérience autour du  thème « Le patrimoine culturel immatériel au carrefour des cultures », le 3 décembre prochain au Siège de  l’Organisation. Je tiens à vous remercier, Monsieur le Directeur général, d’avoir bien voulu accorder le patronage de  l’UNESCO à cet événement, qui comprendra une table ronde et une manifestation culturelle présentant des expressions  du patrimoine immatériel des pays participants : Andorre, Chypre, Luxembourg et Monaco.
20.7 Notre engagement, au Luxembourg, en faveur du patrimoine culturel a été démontré récemment au Siège  même de l’UNESCO par l’organisation d’une exposition sur les églises fortifiées de Transylvanie. Il s’agissait d’un projet  romano-luxembourgeois, placé dans le contexte de « Luxembourg et Grande région, Capitale européenne de la culture
2007 » (Sibiu y est associé) et des relations de partenariat entre le Luxembourg et la ville de Sibiu-Hermannstadt en  Transylvanie, région avec laquelle le Luxembourg entretient des relations séculaires. Un bel exemple de dialogue des  cultures.
20.8 Ce qui m’amène à aborder la Convention, particulièrement chère à notre pays, de 2005 sur la protection et la  promotion de la diversité des expressions culturelles. Le Luxembourg a pu et su œuvrer à l’adoption de la Convention au  moment où il exerçait la présidence du Conseil de l’Union européenne, convaincu qu’il est que la sauvegarde et la  promotion de la diversité culturelle peuvent constituer un puissant facteur de compréhension internationale et de paix.  Plurilingue et multiculturel, il est naturel que mon pays participe activement à la mise en œuvre de cette Convention en  tant que membre élu de son Comité intergouvernemental.
20.9 Outre la culture, l’éducation est l’autre priorité sectorielle pour le Luxembourg, et notamment l’initiative  d’Éducation pour tous, où l’UNESCO doit maintenir le cap et être à la hauteur de son rôle de coordinateur. Nous devons  poursuivre sans relâche la lutte contre l’analphabétisme et soutenir le rôle éminent des femmes dans ce combat. Nous  réitérons notre ferme appui au Réseau du système des écoles associées de l’UNESCO qui est un instrument unique  pour contribuer à la mise en œuvre de la mission éducative de l’UNESCO.
20.10 En vue de relier plus étroitement ce réseau de près de 8 000 écoles à nos préoccupations communes  concernant le développement durable, nous proposons, Monsieur le Directeur général, de confier à l’Unité chargée du  Réseau du système des écoles associées l’élaboration d’un projet phare international assorti d’un matériel pédagogique  adéquat dans le cadre de la Décennie mondiale consacrée à ce problème crucial pour l’avenir de notre planète. Mon  pays soutient toutes les initiatives de l’UNESCO en matière de lutte contre l’analphabétisme, de société de l’information,  du savoir et de la connaissance, mais également dans le débat thématique sur les interactions et les défis  multidisciplinaires des sociétés du savoir, du changement climatique mondial et de la bioéthique, qui sont des  composantes essentielles.
20.11 En ce qui concerne la gestion de l’UNESCO, nous saluons les réformes entreprises et encourageons tous les  efforts visant à une rationalisation continue mais, malgré ces impératifs de rigueur, il ne faudrait pas que les États  membres de cette Organisation entravent son fonctionnement et l’achèvement de ses programmes par une sévérité  budgétaire excessive. Le Luxembourg soutient le budget proposé pour le prochain biennium. Souhaitons que la  préparation du prochain budget soit encore plus pragmatique, transparente et participative.
20.12 Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, et j’annonce avec plaisir que notre  Commission nationale organisera avec la Belgique flamande et les Pays-Bas la prochaine consultation du Directeur  général avec les commissions nationales de la région d’Europe et Amérique du Nord. Notre objectif sera d’aboutir à une  nouvelle forme de discussion interactive centrée sur des thèmes forts ayant un impact réel sur les grandes orientations  de l’UNESCO.
21. Le Président :   Merci bien, Madame la Ministre. Je voudrais maintenant appeler Son Excellence Monsieur Elmar  Mammadyarov, Ministre des affaires étrangères de l’Azerbaïdjan, à lui succéder à la tribune.
22.1 Mr Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to join  the previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr President, on your election as President of the General Conference at  this session, and wish you success in discharging your important functions.
22.2 Mr President, I have the order to express, at the outset, my government’s appreciation to the World Heritage  Committee Member States for the invaluable support they extended to the nomination of the Gobustan Rock Art Cultural  Landscape to the World Heritage List this year in New Zealand. Azerbaijan supports UNESCO’s activities in the  protection of intangible cultural values. The entry into force of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible  Cultural Heritage last year was a significant achievement in this field. It gives me great pleasure to inform you that  Azerbaijan is among the countries which ratified the Convention. We would like to stress the importance of the Japanese  Funds-in-Trust programme, and to express our appreciation to the Government of Japan for its contribution to this  programme, under which the project to safeguard Azerbaijani Mugham, proclaimed a Masterpiece of Oral and Intangible  Heritage of Humanity, was financed.
22.3 Mr President, today, the modern world faces some troubling trends. Talking about the dialogue among  civilizations, we are witnessing that certain issues pertaining to interreligious and inter-ethnic relations are being  exacerbated, sometimes artificially. Long-lasting religious and national tolerance is among the most important  achievements of my country. Being a multi-ethnic society, Azerbaijan has for centuries been a family made up of many  ethnic groups and confessions. Secularity and tolerance are widely regulated in society as norms of everyday life.  Enjoying its geographically determined natural role of bridge between civilizations, between East and West, Azerbaijan  can serve as an example for the whole world. My country has been making a considerable contribution to the efforts of  UNESCO to further develop international peace and tolerance through ethnic diversity and religious tolerance. One of the  initiatives was the conference organized jointly by the Heydar Aliyev Foundation, led by Ms Mehriban Aliyeva, the First  Lady of Azerbaijan and a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, and the Rio de Janeiro-based Academy of Latinity in Baku on
21 April 2006. It was dedicated to the dialogue between the West and Islam.
22.4 Another initiative of the Heydar Aliyev Foundation was financing the full restoration of an Orthodox church and  mosque in Baku as well as a Jewish community museum in Krasnaya Sloboda village in the Quba region of Azerbaijan.  We believe that all these activities will make a positive contribution to the mutual understanding among nations, cultures  and religions so crucial today. We in Azerbaijan strongly believe in the role of UNESCO as an indispensable centre for  partnership in the issues of religions tolerance.
22.5 Mr President, as we all are well aware, the main line of UNESCO’s activities is education, which is fundamental  for overcoming many problems. Extensive socio-economic development of Azerbaijan in recent years has created a  favourable basis for the realization of large-scale reforms in the field of education. Under the project “New schools for  renewing Azerbaijan” implemented by the Heydar Aliyev Foundation, more than 200 schools with all the necessary  equipment have been built, many of which have been constructed in the most remote villages in rural areas. A number of  other important projects on vocational education, the training of teachers and inclusive education are being implemented  jointly with UNESCO within the framework of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation between Azerbaijan  and UNESCO. I would like to underline that the education for all (EFA) programme plays an important role in ensuring  sustainable development and in eliminating illiteracy and contributing to the achievement of the Millennium Development  Goals. Azerbaijan is committed to the principles and aims of the EFA programme, and supports UNESCO’s and  Mr Koïchiro Matsuura’s personal endeavours in developing this programme.
22.6 I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that my country will host, under the EFA programme, in Baku in  July 2008, the Regional Conference for the European and Caucasus Region, supported by the UNESCO Goodwill  Ambassador, Ms Mehriban Aliyeva, which is the last in the series of six regional conferences in support of global literacy.  Using this opportunity, I invite you all to attend this conference, which will be an additional step towards the realization of  this programme.
22.7 Mr President, it is necessary to stress that the Government of Azerbaijan is strongly committed to safeguarding  its cultural heritage. Due to its geographic location, Azerbaijan, with its diverse cultural and religious heritage, has  contributed extensively to world culture. But, unfortunately, among the most urgent troubles now facing the region is the  ongoing Armenia-Azerbaijani Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. As a result of the conflict, Azerbaijan has suffered extensive  cultural disasters. Numerous historical, cultural and religious monuments and pieces of art have been plundered in the  territories of Azerbaijan occupied by Armenia. In this regard, Azerbaijan urges UNESCO to follow closely the situation on  the ground so as to protect the Asian cultural heritage of the Azerbaijani people in the occupied territories from any  further destruction, as well as in Armenia in the settlements from which my people were ethnically cleansed during the  conflict. The Government of Azerbaijan is looking forward to working closely with UNESCO on this very important and  crucial issue. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (Applause)
23. The President:   Minister, I would like now to call Her Excellency, Madam Yasuko Ikenobo, Vice-Minister of Education, Culture,  Sports, Science and Technology of Japan to take the floor. Madam Minister.
24.1 Ms Ikenobo (Japan) (address delivered in Japanese; English text provided by the delegation):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I would, first of all, like to  congratulate you, Mr President, on your election. I would be very happy to discuss under your able presidency the  various matters to be addressed by UNESCO and its Member States. On this occasion, I also wish to congratulate  Singapore on its return to UNESCO. Welcome back! Mr President, our greatest challenge in today’s world is to protect  our beautiful planet, and to transmit to our children a society full of dreams and hope for a better future. The international  community urgently needs to confront the challenges of environmental protection, as well as the prevention of conflicts  and terrorism. I believe that UNESCO, through its programmes, can guide us towards fundamental solutions to these  issues, based on the ideal that the defences of peace must be constructed in the minds of men. I think that UNESCO  plays a crucial role in fostering mutual understanding and cooperation among humans, beyond the concepts of State,  ethnicity and religion.
24.2 Mr President, Japan highly appreciates the reforms that have been initiated by the Director-General,  Mr Matsuura, since 1999 under a tight budget, as well as his strengthening of mutual trust between Member States and  the Secretariat. We will strongly support his efforts to maintain this momentum in the future. Turning now to United  Nations reform, we are convinced that UNESCO can play an important role in improving cooperation and synergies with  other United Nations organizations. Japan also welcomes UNESCO’s active participation in efforts to achieve “One  United Nations” at the country level – especially in the eight pilot countries – and strongly endorses its commitment to  promote decentralization to this end.
24.3 Mr President, culture appeals to the hearts of people on the basis of intellectual and spiritual solidarity. We  endorse a continued emphasis on the preservation of both tangible and intangible cultural heritage in UNESCO’s  forthcoming Medium-Term Strategy. In the 1950s, Japan engaged in safeguarding intangible cultural assets such as  kabuki, joruri bunraku and noh theatre, as well as the artists who carry and embody those traditions. Their skills – or  waza in Japanese – are being transmitted from one generation to the next because they are widely cherished by the  people. Japan strongly intends to contribute to UNESCO’s efforts for the protection of intangible cultural heritage by  sharing its past experience and expertise at the international level. Furthermore, Japan has ratified this year the Hague  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, and enacted a law to ensure such  protection at the national level. We also expect UNESCO to continue to exert leadership in establishing peace and  harmony through the promotion of dialogue among cultures, civilizations and cultural diversity.
24.4 Mr President, I have shared my life with ikebana, Japan’s traditional art of flower arrangement, through which  communities have expressed for centuries their reverence for nature, their altruism, and their prayers for health and  peace. This spirit of peace, harmony between man and nature, and love have been part of Japan’s traditional culture,  and I believe it also forms the basis of UNESCO’s role in the world.
24.5 Mr President, as the international community strives to attain the objectives of education for all (EFA) by 2015,  UNESCO should not spare any efforts in preaching the importance of education in order to achieve social change. We  hope that these efforts will be further improved through partnerships and cooperation with other programmes. Japan was  among the first countries to advocate in 2002 the importance of education for sustainable development (ESD), and has  steadily promoted this initiative. The United Nations also proclaimed the ten-year period starting in 2005 as the United  Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. The promotion of ESD is significant not only from an  environmental and development perspective, but also to achieve new advances in the fields UNESCO has been  addressing since its creation: those of peace, human rights and international understanding. Japan believes that ESD is  a crucial initiative for future generations. Accordingly, the Japanese National Commission for UNESCO compiled in  August a list of proposals for further progress on the Decade, which were submitted to the UNESCO Secretariat and  distributed among Member States. In these proposals, Japan urges UNESCO to reinforce significantly its efforts on ESD  in the forthcoming Medium-Term Strategy, and calls on Member States to contribute more towards the attainment of the  initiative’s objectives.
24.6 Mr President, one of the most important aspects in the promotion of ESD is the development of a new  consciousness and behaviour at the individual level. For this reason, it is crucial for UNESCO to reinforce partnerships  with educational and scientific institutions, the media, corporations and non-governmental organizations. In September  Japan celebrated, in the presence of the Director-General, Mr Matsuura, the 60th anniversary of the world’s oldest non- governmental UNESCO movement. The regional and grassroots organizations at the basis of this movement have been  the driving force behind the promotion of the ideals of UNESCO in Japan, and we intend to continue promoting the active  participation of younger generations through partnerships and international exchange.
24.7 Mr President, UNESCO’s activities are a guide for younger generations, which allows them to dream and hope  for a better future. Under the outstanding leadership of my old friend Mr Matsuura, I expect UNESCO to enhance its  visibility – particularly among younger generations – and to provide a stage for mutual understanding and cooperation.  Mr President, lastly, Japan welcomes the clear priority given by UNESCO to Africa. In May next year, Japan will host the  Fourth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD IV), to discuss measures to be taken by the  international community for African development. UNESCO is playing a major role in African development, and we hope  it will contribute to the success of TICAD IV. As a member of UNESCO, Japan will contribute its utmost to the realization  of UNESCO’s ideals and objectives. Thank you very much for your kind attention.  (Applause)  Mr Wiesner (Austria) takes the Chair.
25. The President:   I thank Her Excellency, Madam Yasuko Ikenobo, Vice-Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and  Technology of Japan. The next speaker on our list is a personality that is known to all and each of us: Mr Zhang  Xinsheng. If he addresses us today, he does not do it in his capacity as Chairman of the Executive Board, but as Vice- Minister of Education of China. Mr Zhang, my friend, you have the floor. I was told, and I stand corrected, that His  Excellency is also speaking as Chairman of the National Commission of the People’s Republic of China for UNESCO.  Mr Zhang, you have the floor.
(26.1) Mr Zhang Xinsheng (China) (translation from the Chinese):   Mr President, Mr Director-General, distinguished heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen,  (The speaker continues in English)
26.2 First of all, please allow me to extend my warm congratulations to His Excellency, the Ambassador of Greece,  on his election as President of the UNESCO General Conference. My warm congratulations also go to both Montenegro  and Singapore for joining and rejoining the big family of UNESCO. Next I will speak in Chinese.  (The speaker continues in Chinese)
(26.3) (translation from the Chinese) This General Conference has opened at a crucial time in the development of the  Organization. The General Conference has discussed UNESCO’s Draft Medium-Term Strategy (34 C/4) and Draft Programme  and Budget. Against the backdrop of globalization and the United Nations reform, the implementation of these instruments is  vital if the Organization is to play a more important role. While the General Conference has been in session, the  representatives have been meeting for the 17th Congress of the Chinese Communist Party in Beijing. The meeting has  summarized the achievements and experience gained in the past five years in applying a people-oriented scientific outlook to  development, in implementing the strategy for rejuvenating the country through science and education and the strategy for  strengthening the nation with trained personnel, and in sustaining steady and rapid economic growth. The meeting has also  established new ambitious development targets for China’s future. The development of China, with its population of 1.3 billion,  is contributing to the world’s prosperity and progress, and to the building of world peace through education, science and  culture, a vision UNESCO has been promoting in its work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chinese delegation notes with  satisfaction that the Draft Medium-Term Strategy has been formulated with clear strategic objectives and an emphasis on  programme priorities and actual results. The new Draft Programme and Budget guarantees programme priorities; Africa  continues to be a significant priority; and interdisciplinary work is also emphasized. It is worth mentioning in particular that in  the spirit of consensus among the Members of the Executive Board, the budget for the new biennial plan has made a  breakthrough vis-à-vis the zero nominal growth budgets adopted for the past six years, providing the required funding and  conditions for the activities Member States wish to implement and for the follow-up on Priority Africa and education for all  (EFA). This accomplishment fully demonstrates the unity and consensus of the UNESCO family, and therefore must be  treasured, and in this I thank the Director-General for his efforts and I thank the Member States for their understanding. Ladies  and gentlemen, education is a key domain of UNESCO and the most fundamental human right – this is our understanding.  Just imagine that one’s right to education could not be guaranteed; how could other rights be exercised in this knowledge  society? We must therefore support UNESCO’s efforts to place education for all at the very centre of its raison d’être and must  not waver in this before 2015. We shoulder the enormous responsibility the international community has bestowed on us in  leading the movement of education for all. The targets are already set, the plan is already fixed, the monitoring stage is over,  and the success of the plan therefore rests on effective implementation. Education is fundamental for the development of  every country and the key to poverty reduction. Education will decide the future of the world, and in this sense the  Organization bears a historic responsibility for the development of humankind. China’s development has had a positive impact  on quality education for all. The Chinese Government is committed to its promises and has brought forward to an earlier date  the six goals of the Dakar Framework. Our past experience shows that it is essential to establish a plan for each stage, provide  guidance tailored to the situation and use the experience gained from selected units to promote work in general. In supporting  Priority Africa and education for all in E-9 countries and small island developing States (SIDS), we must stress that emphasis  should be laid on education in rural areas. For this reason, UNESCO is ready to cooperate through the International Rural  Education and Training Centre in China. South-South cooperation and South-North-South cooperation are important  mechanisms in the drive for education for all. China will support cooperation programmes in this framework and will, moreover,  provide aid within its power. The UNESCO Regional Conference in Support of Global Literacy, held in Beijing at the end of  July this year, has played a positive role in promoting literacy in the region. We consider that targets for education for all  should not be the end of the matter but should lead the way to linkages between technical and vocational education and higher  education. We propose that the Organization should also pay due attention to technical and vocational education programmes,  as well as higher education programmes.
26.4 Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is adversely affecting humanity’s sustainable development and, in order to  understand and combat this, the Organization should further support intergovernmental programmes on oceans, geology and  hydrology as well as the Man and the Biosphere Programme. International cooperation in these areas must be further  promoted to minimize the deleterious effect of climate change. The Chinese Government supports pragmatic and effective  cooperation in order to build on its capabilities and meet its international obligations. It regards environmental protection as its  fundamental national policy for building a resource-conserving society and developing a circular economy in order to promote  a harmonious developmental relationship between humankind and nature. China supports UNESCO’s efforts to play a global  leadership role in the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development and, moreover, to make a greater  contribution in a multidisciplinary manner. We support the Social and Human Sciences Sector efforts to summarize and  disseminate best practices of Member States, and to carry out future-oriented advanced research in order to propose  pioneering ideas and thoughts. As regards Member States’ enthusiasm for establishing category 2 institutions and centres, it is  our position that the principle of geographic distribution should be observed and that the Organization should establish  operational standards and regulations, enabling these institutions and centres to contribute to the Organization’s mission. In  today’s world, human development still faces all kinds of contradictions and challenges such as the dangers and crisis inherent  in terrorism and regional conflicts. Whatever else, we must not shirk our responsibility to create a peaceful world for our  children. China has put forth a proposal to build a harmonious world with our joint efforts, which conforms to the Organization’s  vision of building peace. UNESCO holds the torch of leadership in cultivating a culture of peace, protecting cultural diversity  and promoting dialogue between different civilizations. The three conventions on the protection of world heritage, intangible  heritage and cultural diversity lay the foundation for international cooperation. We welcome the efforts made by the World  Heritage Centre to protect the world heritage, and we also attach great importance to the implementation of the Convention for  the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. In May of this year an extraordinary meeting on intangible heritage was  held in Chengdu, China, which has played a constructive role in formulating the criteria for protecting intangible heritage. The  participants had an opportunity to view a performance staged by artists from different countries, which brought home to their  hearts the significance of protecting cultural diversity. We also agree with the proposal for the development of an international  cooperation agreement on the protection of linguistic diversity and indigenous languages.
26.5 Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, 2008 is going to be a year of great joy for both the Chinese people and the  people of the world, as the Olympic Games will be held in China. China will mark this great occasion as Green Olympics, High-
118  tech Olympics and People’s Olympics (environment-friendly Olympics, technology-powered Olympics, and culture-enriched  Olympics). Such an approach embodies the Organization’s spirit, focusing on education, science and technology, and  environmental protection. Let’s make an appointment to meet in Beijing and, under the leadership of the Olympic spirit and the  ideals of the Organization, make an historic contribution towards the building of a harmonious world with our joint efforts.  (Applause)
27. The President:   I want to thank His Excellency, Mr Zhang Xinsheng, who spoke to us in a different capacity from the one we are  normally used to. The next speaker, and the last one for this morning, is His Excellency, Minister of State for European  and International Affairs of Austria, Dr Hans Winkler. Excellency, you have the floor.
28.1 Mr Winkler (Austria):   Mr President, thank you very much. Let me first of all congratulate Ambassador Anastassopoulos on his election  as President of the General Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, UNESCO has a very special place in the minds and in  the hearts of the Austrian people. Sixty years ago, the General Conference invited Austria to become a Member of this  Organization, and that was eight years before Austria became an independent country and before Austria joined the  United Nations. Ever since then Austria has supported, fully supported, all UNESCO’s initiatives, and has also supported  and encouraged the reform process. I would also like to thank the Director-General for his dedication and his continued  efforts in ensuring that this Organization holds the place it deserves within the United Nations family.
28.2 Mr President, access is the keyword for globalization with a human face, and I believe that UNESCO must  become the prime mediator for convincing the world community that we need to intensify all possible efforts to secure the  access of everybody and everywhere to the chances of an emerging knowledge society. We need to reduce cultural  divides which result from existing social divides. There are many challenges that our societies, our countries and the  international community at large face today. We believe that UNESCO has a role to play in meeting these challenges.  The dialogue among civilizations is one of these challenges. Because we believe that dialogue is the only way to avoid  and prevent what some believe is unavoidable – a clash of civilizations. Dialogue is the only way out. I had the  opportunity just two weeks ago at the high-level dialogue on interreligious and intercultural understanding and  cooperation for peace in the General Assembly in New York to confirm that Austria intends to contribute substantially to  this process.
28.3 There is one aspect of this dialogue which is very important to us, namely to make full use of the potential of  women in this context. Mr President, there are more and more women who press forward for jobs in all regions of the  world, including the Islamic world. Education and the training of young people by women is increasingly important, and it  therefore seems appropriate to call upon UNESCO to support this process of involving women in the training of future  generations. In our view, this would contribute to the equality and to the development of education programmes aimed at  reducing and preventing tensions due to different religious beliefs. In addition, Austria organized various events, such as,  for example, the Conference “Women Leaders Networking for Peace and Security in the Middle East” in May of this year.  We will also continue to pursue such initiatives in the future.
28.4 Mr President, no country has the perfect recipe to meet the challenge of interreligious dialogue and of integration  of ethnic and religious minorities in our societies. We must learn from each other. We must learn from past practices. In  Austria, for example, and this is just one example, we had a Conference of European Imams in Vienna in April 2006. We  believe that such an event is one way of increasing our understanding of each other. And in the final document resulting  from that conference, it was noted that every form of fanaticism and extremism had to be and should be strictly  condemned. The document also confirmed a commitment to diversity, democracy and human rights. And this is why  Austria accords priority to UNESCO’s Interreligious Dialogue programme, through which cooperation with academic  centres can be fostered. Furthermore, we are proud that we now have a Chair in Intercultural and Interreligious Dialogue  for South-East Europe at our University in Graz.
28.5 Distinguished delegates, I think we all agree that language is a core element of our identity. Therefore, Austria,  together with Hungary, put forward initiatives in the United Nations in New York aiming at preserving the diversity of  languages in the world. We are thus very satisfied that the General Assembly had proclaimed 2008 as International Year  of Languages. Austria has high expectations in UNESCO in this respect.
28.6 Mr President, in 2008 we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights. We would like to see UNESCO continue its efforts with regard to education in human rights, because we  believe that the process of human rights education has not yet been completed. It needs fresh impetus, and we hope that  the 60th Anniversary will also give new momentum to UNESCO’s efforts.
28.7 One of UNESCO’s most visible and successful activities is the World Heritage programme. Austria is convinced  that the growing number of cultural World Heritage sites can help to improve understanding of the cultural vitality and  diversity of countries and regions. There is also one particular Austrian initiative which I would like to mention in this  connection. In order to support European integration processes, Austria has devised an exhibition project on “The  Balkans Rediscovered”, which will present, under the auspices of UNESCO, in European Union member countries all the  World Heritage sites of the Western Balkan countries.
28.8 Distinguished delegates, peaceful cooperation between human beings, peoples and States is not possible  without tolerance. With the adoption of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural  Expressions in October 2005, UNESCO set a milestone in this field, and I sincerely hope that all Members will ratify this  Convention as soon as possible.
28.9 Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, may I again stress the importance we attach to the Organization. We have  always wished to see that UNESCO would comprise all the Members of the United Nations family. On behalf of the  Austrian Government, I therefore cordially welcome the return of Singapore to the UNESCO family, and I also wish to  extend a hearty welcome to Montenegro. Thank you very much, Mr President.  (Applause)
29. The President:   I thank the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry for European and International Affairs of Austria. We have  thus concluded this morning’s speakers; there were 14 of them.  Visit by H.E. Mr Karolos Papoulias, President of the Hellenic Republic  Visite de S. E. Karolos Papoulias, président de la République hellénique  Visita del Excmo. Sr. Karolos Papoulias, Presidente de la República Helénica  Визит Его превосходительства г-на Каролоса Папульяса, президента Греческой Республики  א א ، א א   希腊共和国总统卡罗洛斯·帕普利亚斯先生阁下来访
30. The President:   We are now waiting for the arrival of His Excellency Karolos Papoulias, President of the Hellenic Republic. I  propose that we suspend our meeting for five minutes, during which I ask you to remain in your seats while we are  waiting for the President of Greece. The meeting is suspended. Thank you.  The meeting is suspended for five minutes to allow the President of the General Conference   and the Director-General to welcome the President of Greece.  H.E. Mr Karolos Papoulias, President of the Hellenic Republic, enters Room I and is escorted to his place.  Mr Anastassopoulos resumes the Chair.
31.1 The President:   Dear colleagues, we will resume our meeting. Could I ask those that can to be seated and to allow us to go  ahead? With your permission, I would like to start this brief welcome in Greek. I will also express myself in French and  some English.  (The President continues in Greek)
31.2 (traduit du grec) Monsieur le Président de la République hellénique, c’est le bon Dieu de la Grèce qui m’a  réservé ce privilège très important, le privilège de pouvoir vous souhaiter la bienvenue aujourd’hui au sein de l’UNESCO,  organisation dans le cadre de laquelle les idéaux universels sont exprimés sous la forme d’un temple grec, de son  symbole qui évoque le Parthénon. Je voudrais m’adresser à vous dans notre langue qui est le grec, cette langue qui a  été reliée à une très grande civilisation à l’échelle mondiale. C’est une civilisation qui, aujourd’hui encore, reste  contemporaine. C’est une civilisation qui est toujours utile à la communauté internationale.   (Le Président poursuit en français)
31.3 J’ai dit en grec au Président de la République hellénique qu’un heureux concours de circonstances m’offrait  aujourd’hui le grand privilège, en tant que Président de la Conférence générale, d’accueillir le Président de la République  hellénique à l’UNESCO, là où l’idéal universel épouse la forme d’un temple grec qui rappelle le Parthénon. Je salue le  Président de la République hellénique, l’ancien ministre des affaires étrangères, dont le parcours à la tête de la  diplomatie grecque est le plus long depuis la guerre. J’ai souhaité le saluer pour commencer dans notre langue grecque,  qui est liée à cette grande civilisation, dans les trésors desquels la civilisation humaine tout entière a puisé pendant des  siècles.
31.4 Je salue encore l’homme politique qui a combattu pour la démocratie, la paix, l’État de droit et la justice et qui  est bien respecté en Grèce. La Grèce moderne, chers collègues, n’a pas seulement un passé glorieux : elle se bat  encore vigoureusement aujourd’hui pour une société plus humaine. C’est dans cet esprit que je voudrais, Monsieur le  Président de la République hellénique, alors que la Conférence générale entame ses travaux, vous inviter très  chaleureusement à faire part de vos réflexions sur les grands enjeux de notre époque, notamment pour ce qui a trait aux  mandats et responsabilités propres à l’UNESCO.  (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
31.5 It is in this spirit that I would like to ask you, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, to take the floor.
32.1 M. Papoulias (Président de la Grèce) (discours prononcé en grec ; texte français fourni par la délégation) :   Monsieur le Président de la Conférence générale, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs, c’est  un honneur particulier pour moi d’être invité au Siège de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour l’éducation, la science et  la culture, à l’occasion de sa 34e Conférence générale. J’ai surtout l’honneur de représenter un pays dont la tradition  culturelle constitue le fondement des principes et des valeurs qui inspirent l’UNESCO dans ses objectifs et dans ses  actions. Je remercie infiniment de cette invitation le Directeur général de l’UNESCO, Monsieur Koïchiro Matsuura, qui,  depuis 1999, a entrepris des activités tout à fait exceptionnelles au sein de cette Organisation. Je voudrais aussi féliciter
120  le représentant permanent de la Grèce, l’Ambassadeur Georges Anastassopoulos, qui a été élu Président de la  Conférence générale de l’UNESCO.
32.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, l’UNESCO a été fondée à Londres en novembre 1945, lorsque l’humanité laissait  derrière elle six années de barbarie. L’UNESCO était le fruit d’une exigence collective, celle que l’humanité ne vive plus  jamais une telle tragédie. Et comme la guerre naît dans l’esprit des hommes, c’est dans l’esprit des hommes qu’il faut  construire la paix. Le choix de l’Université de la Sorbonne comme lieu de tenue de sa première Conférence était sans  aucun doute un fait à caractère hautement symbolique.
32.3 Les principes de l’UNESCO, tels qu’ils sont exprimés dans son Acte constitutif, sont fondés sur l’idée que les  conflits du passé n’ont jamais eu pour cause unique les conditions économiques ou sociales prédominantes dans les  sociétés de l’époque, mais aussi l’environnement intellectuel et culturel qui les a fait naître ou leur a donné de l’ampleur.  Les gouvernements de l’après-guerre étaient désormais convaincus que la croissance économique et la collaboration  entre les peuples ne suffisaient pas pour instaurer la paix, mais que le contact intellectuel entre les sociétés et une  nouvelle définition de la dimension morale de la politique étaient également indispensables. L’ignorance est l’un des  ennemis de la paix entre les hommes et les peuples. Comme cela est mentionné dans l’Acte constitutif de l’UNESCO,  l’incompréhension mutuelle des peuples a toujours été, au cours de l’histoire, à l’origine de la suspicion et de la méfiance  entre nations, et leurs désaccords ont trop souvent dégénéré en guerres.
32.4 Mesdames et Messieurs, ces initiatives pour la paix de la part de l’UNESCO sont étroitement liées à la science.  Le langage de la science unit les hommes car, comme celui des arts, il est universel. C’est en effet un langage qui  dépasse les différences ethniques, sociales et économiques. Le projet le plus noble de l’homme n’est autre que la  connaissance de lui-même et de la Nature. Si nous ne le comprenons pas, nous ne pourrons pas atteindre l’objectif du  développement équilibré des sociétés ni, par conséquent, de la mise en place d’un monde plus juste.
32.5 L’UNESCO soutient inlassablement depuis toujours les efforts des intellectuels, des artistes et des scientifiques.  Elle encourage le dialogue entre eux et la transmission de leur message. C’est un choix purement politique de la part de  l’UNESCO, qui vise au développement éthique afin que, selon son Acte constitutif, la richesse produite ne soit plus  répartie avec une injustice croissante, comme cela est, malheureusement, le cas de nos jours.
32.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, la justice et le respect des droits de l’homme constituent des conditions sine qua non  pour instaurer la paix. Elles présupposent l’égalité des chances de tous les hommes en matière d’éducation. De nos  jours, la sensibilité envers les droits de l’homme est sélective aussi bien dans les pays développés que dans les pays en  développement. De plus en plus souvent, dans un nombre croissant de pays, les libertés individuelles sont violées et la  notion de dignité humaine est avilie. Ayant moi-même participé aux batailles menées par les fondateurs de l’UNESCO,  permettez-moi de souligner qu’il s’agit d’une évolution dangereuse. C’est faire marche arrière. Faire des concessions au  niveau de la protection des droits de l’homme sous prétexte d’instaurer la paix ou de se protéger contre des menaces,  montre une ignorance de l’histoire.
32.7 En ce qui concerne l’objectif de la parité en matière d’éducation, je voudrais tout d’abord féliciter sincèrement  l’UNESCO pour son travail remarquable, notamment dans la lutte contre l’analphabétisme. Lorsqu’un enfant de plus est  scolarisé, c’est un pas vers le développement et vers la paix qui est effectué. Mais je suis convaincu que nous sommes  encore loin de l’idéal. Il est navrant de constater que l’accès à l’éducation, et surtout à une éducation de qualité, dépend  de la situation économique et du lieu de naissance des élèves. L’éducation ne doit plus constituer un privilège de  « nantis » aux dépens d’une éducation en fonction du mérite, et il y a là un problème dont nous sommes tous  responsables.
32.8 Mesdames et Messieurs, comme je l’ai déjà mentionné au début de mon discours, j’éprouve une grande fierté et  un grand sentiment de responsabilité car je représente un pays dont la contribution culturelle à l’humanité est  considérable. Les principes et les valeurs de la Grèce antique sont étroitement liés aux valeurs préconisées par  l’UNESCO. Permettez-moi de me référer brièvement à cette question. En effet, c’est dans la Grèce de l’Antiquité qu’ont  vu le jour, pendant la même période, la philosophie et la science. Selon les Grecs de l’Antiquité, il existait un lien étroit  entre la quête du savoir et un mode de vie vertueux. Dans leur pensée, on retrouve déjà des principes tels que « juger  correctement pour agir correctement » ainsi que « science sans conscience n’est que ruine de l’âme », comme l’écrivit  plus tard Rabelais. Le lien qui existe entre ces principes et les termes selon lesquels l’UNESCO favorise et renforce les  sciences et le savoir est tout à fait évident. Il est par conséquent aisé d’aboutir à la conclusion que la culture classique  est toujours notre contemporaine, au-delà de tous les efforts de révision ou de critique. Les études humanistes – au  cœur desquelles se placent les études classiques – restent aujourd’hui encore un noyau vital pour l’apprentissage  démocratique.
32.9 Mesdames et Messieurs, il serait impossible de se référer en quelques lignes seulement aux événements  marquants ou aux succès de l’UNESCO ainsi qu’aux défis que l’Organisation est appelée à relever de nos jours. De  nouveaux problèmes graves ont vu le jour et, parallèlement, des problèmes existants, comme par exemple celui de  l’environnement, se sont considérablement et dangereusement intensifiés. Tous ceux qui, jusqu’à présent, restaient  indifférents à cette attaque contre l’environnement au nom de la croissance et du gain économique subissent aujourd’hui  les conséquences de cette tolérance collective. Les phénomènes climatiques extrêmes, la hausse de la température de  la planète, la sécheresse, la pollution de l’air et de l’eau mènent notre destinée vers un désert. Puisque nous sommes  maintenant au bord du gouffre, les hommes se sensibilisent, hélas avec un grand retard, et une forte pression est  exercée sur les dirigeants politiques pour que la protection de la nature devienne maintenant une priorité. Car c’est le  seul patrimoine commun de l’humanité qui ait fait l’objet de tant d’ingratitude et d’arrogance.
32.10 Cet été, mon pays a vécu un cauchemar. Des hommes ont péri dans les flammes, des milliers d’hectares de  terres, des animaux et des forêts ont été détruits par les flammes. Notre engagement ne peut avoir qu’un seul objectif :  lutter pour que les catastrophes environnementales ne fassent plus de victimes. Par conséquent, lorsque nous parlons  aujourd’hui de démocratie, nous ne pouvons parler que d’une démocratie écologique.
32.11 Mesdames et Messieurs, une autre grande question de notre époque est celle des nouveaux défis qui sont dus  aux nouvelles possibilités et aux conquêtes de la génétique et de la biotechnologie et qui remettent en question certains  aspects de la science, du droit et de la philosophie, et notamment de la bioéthique. L’UNESCO a créé en 1993 le Comité  international de bioéthique, qui est chargé de contrôler l’application de la Déclaration universelle sur le génome humain  et les droits de l’homme. Je considère que cette initiative est extrêmement positive. De plus, je crois fermement que les  connaissances relevant de domaines comme, par exemple, le génome humain doivent faire l’objet d’une définition et  être garanties du point de vue juridique, en tant que patrimoine commun de l’humanité.
32.12 Inspirée par l’idéal olympique, la Grèce a organisé avec succès les Jeux Olympiques d’Athènes en 2004, en se  basant sur l’idéal anthropocentrique. La Grèce a déployé tous ses moyens pour promouvoir les idéaux olympiques,  notamment via des programmes de l’UNESCO, en étant convaincue qu’il s’agit du canal le plus approprié pour  transmettre ces messages. Elle a ainsi contribué à l’adoption en 2005 d’une importante Convention internationale contre  le dopage dans le sport, dont l’application apporte déjà des fruits, comme je le constate avec satisfaction. De plus, j’ai eu  la joie d’être informé qu’une initiative grecque pour la création d’un Observatoire de l’UNESCO pour les femmes, le sport  et l’éducation physique, serait examinée au cours de la 34e Conférence générale.
32.13 Mesdames et Messieurs, en ce qui concerne l’immigration, nous constatons que la mondialisation des marchés  a mondialisé aussi le malheur humain. Selon les données de l’ONU, il y a approximativement 175 millions d’hommes qui  vivent loin de leur pays d’origine et, dans les pays industriels, un habitant sur dix est un immigré. L’UNESCO a tenu  compte de cette nouvelle réalité, via la Déclaration de novembre 2001 dans laquelle la diversité culturelle est définie en  tant que « patrimoine commun de l’humanité ». Les sociétés occidentales sont inquiètes à cause des caravanes de  réfugiés et cette inquiétude devient souvent un prétexte pour une logique de création d’États-forteresses censés faire  face à une immigration clandestine considérée comme une menace. Mais tant que la pauvreté et le désespoir  persisteront sur notre planète, il y aura des flux migratoires. En nous fondant sur ce constat, nous devons en faire la  base de notre culture sociale et le guide de nos actes politiques.
32.14 La culture représente une bataille continue pour l’UNESCO. L’Organisation l’a démontré en 2003, avec la  Convention pour la sauvegarde du patrimoine culturel immatériel. La Grèce a l’honneur de voir figurer 17 sites nationaux  sur la Liste de l’UNESCO : il s’agit dans tous les cas de monuments qui appartiennent, sans l’ombre d’un doute, au  patrimoine culturel mondial. Depuis le Parthénon, Delphes et le théâtre antique d’Épidaure, jusqu’au Mont Athos, aux  Météores, à Mystras et à la ville ancienne de Corfou, chacun de ces monuments constitue l’expression d’une tradition  culturelle et d’une période historique différente de la Grèce. Je voudrais aussi féliciter l’UNESCO pour les actions qu’elle  a entreprises depuis 1970 afin de limiter et de combattre le trafic illicite de biens culturels. Il s’agit d’un acte illégal dont la  Grèce subit les conséquences.
32.15 Par ailleurs, la question du retour des marbres du Parthénon qui se trouvent encore au British Museum n’est  pas encore résolue. Ayant toutefois confiance dans les valeurs observées par les grands musées, et considérant qu’un  climat positif s’est dernièrement créé, j’ose espérer que le Nouveau Musée de l’Acropole qui sera bientôt ouvert  constituera une excellente motivation pour résoudre définitivement cette question en suspens depuis si longtemps. La  campagne pour le retour des marbres du Parthénon en Grèce est une exigence universelle et toujours actuelle. Je  voudrais souligner avec émotion que la date du 18 octobre coïncide avec la date de naissance de Mélina Mercouri, qui a  bataillé tout au long de sa vie pour la restitution des marbres du Parthénon.
32.16 Mesdames et Messieurs, mon pays, soucieux de toujours se trouver en première ligne dans la lutte pour la  protection du patrimoine culturel des peuples, désire développer des initiatives en la matière – via l’UNESCO – à  l’échelle régionale, et plus particulièrement dans le Sud-Est de l’Europe. En juin 2008, mon pays accueillera une réunion  des chefs d’État de cette région, sur le thème des « Rencontres interculturelles via les parcours maritimes, lacustres et  fluviaux en Europe du Sud-Est ». Cette réunion sera la continuation des réunions au Sommet qui ont été tenues pour la  première fois en 2003 à Ohrid et qui depuis se tiennent régulièrement tous les ans pour promouvoir le dialogue  interculturel dans les pays des Balkans.
32.17 Mesdames et Messieurs, beaucoup de choses ont changé depuis 1945. Les protagonistes de ces premières  initiatives ne sont plus en vie mais nous nous souviendrons toujours d’eux avec gratitude pour leur contribution décisive.  Grâce à son action, l’UNESCO a changé la vie de millions d’hommes et de femmes et de millions d’enfants. Lorsqu’un  analphabète de plus est scolarisé, c’est une brique qui est ajoutée à l’édifice de la paix mondiale. Mais nous sommes  encore loin des objectifs de la Déclaration du Millénaire et de l’Acte constitutif.
32.18 Il y a encore beaucoup de conflits armés, aux quatre coins du monde, avec des centaines de victimes et de  personnes déplacées qui cherchent fortune dans d’autres pays. Mais sans doute le plus important est encore que la  crainte de la guerre persiste, ce qui amène à dépenser des sommes colossales en armement, alors que ces sommes  pourraient soulager la planète de la pauvreté qui la ronge. C’est un fléau, et c’est une insulte à notre culture politique. Le  rôle que pourrait jouer l’Organisation des Nations Unies au service de la paix a été à maintes reprises réduit à néant  sous le poids des intérêts des puissants. Les citoyens pensants se demandent à juste titre si l’humanité progresse ou si  elle fait des pas en arrière, sur certains plans. Mais les efforts et la philosophie de l’UNESCO nous montrent bien le seul  chemin à suivre si nous voulons que les idéaux de son Acte constitutif soient mis en œuvre, à savoir la paix mondiale, le  respect des droits de l’homme, la dignité et le développement au sein de sociétés démocratiques. Je vous remercie.
33. Le Président (traduit du grec) :   Monsieur le Président de la République hellénique, au nom de la Conférence générale, je voudrais vous  remercier. Je vous remercie du discours que vous venez de prononcer. Je crois que votre intervention va alimenter notre  réflexion. Il est certain que tous nos collègues ne vont pas manquer de développer ces idées dans ce long et difficile  parcours, celui qui a pour objectif de créer un monde meilleur, un monde plus humain. Je vous remercie une fois de plus.  Je voudrais conclure en ayant à l’esprit les points que le Président de la République hellénique a abordés. C’est à
15 heures que nous allons reprendre nos travaux. Je vous remercie et je vous souhaite bon appétit.  S.E. M. Karolos Papoulias, Président de la République hellénique, quitte la salle.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12 h 45  Se levanta la sesión a las 12.45  Заседание закрывается в 12.45  א א١٢,٤٥א   会议于 12 时 45 分结束