376  Recommendations of the General Committee  Recommandations du Bureau  Recomendaciones de la Mesa  Рекомендации Президиума  א א   总务委员会的建议
1.1 Le Président :   Chers collègues, je vous prie de bien vouloir prendre place. Je comprends que vous êtes fatigués, et c’est  pourquoi je fais preuve de patience en attendant que nous soyons assez nombreux pour commencer nos travaux. C’est  désormais le cas et je déclare donc ouverte cette 19e séance plénière.
1.2 Je voudrais vous informer que le Bureau de la Conférence a tenu sa cinquième réunion mardi et que nous  avons eu, pour la première fois hier, une réunion informelle à la demande de certains de mes collègues, pour discuter  librement de la façon dont se sont déroulés jusqu’à présent les travaux de la Conférence générale et examiner les  moyens d’en améliorer l’organisation à l’avenir. Ce fut une discussion très intéressante qui s’est soldée par des résultats  positifs. Le Bureau m’a demandé de veiller à ce que cette question soit examinée et je vous en parlerai demain soir à  l’issue de nos travaux. J’espère que nous réussirons à tirer les enseignements de ce qui n’a pas fonctionné aussi bien  que nous l’escomptions, et à déterminer ce qui pourrait être amélioré.
1.3 Le Bureau de la Conférence a aussi examiné l’organisation de la dernière phase de notre travail, qui s’ouvre  maintenant. Nous lui avions soumis un projet, qu’il a approuvé. Je vous le soumets : c’est l’annexe 34/C Bureau 10.
1.4 Au programme, prévu dans ce document, qu’à mon sens vous pourriez adopter, figure le point 13.1 concernant  la 35e session de la Conférence générale, c’est-à-dire la prochaine session de la Conférence, le troisième rapport de la  Présidente du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs et le rapport du Comité des candidatures, ainsi que l’examen et  l’adoption du rapport de la Commission PRX – tout ceci devant être examiné ce matin. Pour cet après-midi, sont prévus  l’examen et l’adoption du rapport de la Commission ADM : Finances et administration et l’examen et l’adoption du  rapport de la Commission ED : Éducation.
1.5 Demain, vendredi 2 novembre, à notre séance du matin, sont prévus l’examen et l’adoption du rapport de la  Commission SC : Sciences exactes et naturelles ainsi que l’examen et l’adoption du rapport de la Commission SHS :  Sciences sociales et humaines.
1.6 Je voudrais attirer votre attention sur le fait que, comme le Bureau de la Conférence l’a suggéré, et comme  c’était déjà mon intention depuis plus d’une semaine, il a été décidé que nous nous efforcerions de terminer nos travaux  demain après-midi et d’annuler notre séance de samedi. Je pense qu’avec votre coopération habituelle, nous y  parviendrons mais, à cette fin, il convient que nous commencions nos travaux demain après-midi à 14 heures, afin que  nous ayons pleinement le temps d’examiner les derniers rapports et projets de résolutions.
1.7 Figurent à l’ordre du jour de demain après-midi l’examen et l’adoption du rapport de la Commission CI :  Communication et information, du rapport de la Commission CLT : Culture, l’adoption de la résolution portant ouverture  de crédits pour 2008-2009, l’examen et l’adoption du Projet de stratégie à moyen terme pour 2008-2013.
1.8 Avant que nous passions à l’examen du point 13.1, je dois vous rappeler qu’en vertu de la procédure introduite  à la 28e session de la Conférence générale, chacun des rapports qui nous sont présentés sera examiné globalement et  soumis dans son ensemble à l’approbation de la plénière. Si une délégation n’est pas d’accord sur un point particulier,  elle a le droit de proposer que ce dernier fasse l’objet d’une résolution distincte.
1.9 Je voudrais aussi vous signaler que les délégations qui souhaitent demander la parole peuvent le faire après la  présentation de chaque rapport.
1.10 Par ailleurs, si vous souhaitez formuler des commentaires relatifs au style ou visant à corriger telle ou telle  version linguistique à formuler, je vous prie de les signaler au secrétariat de la commission concernée ou au Secrétariat  de la Conférence générale, afin qu’ils puissent être examinés sans que nous soyons retardés dans nos travaux.  Item 13.1: Venue of the 35th session of the General Conference (34 C/39)  Point 13.1 : Lieu de la 35e session de la Conférence générale (34 C/39)  Punto 13.1: Lugar de celebración de la 35ª reunión de la Conferencia General (34 C/39)  Пункт 13.1: Место проведения 35-й сессии Генеральной конференции (34 С/39)  א:١٣,١א א א א )٣٤/٣٩(א   项目 13.1：大会第三十五届会议的地点（34 C/39）
2.1 Le Président :   J’espère avoir été clair. A présent, nous pouvons passer au point 13.1. Je vous invite à consulter le document
34 C/39.   (Le Président poursuit en anglais)
2.2 To switch into English. May I remind you that the Executive Board has already adopted a decision on this  matter, 177 EX/Decision 41, which is reproduced in document 34 C/39. I would ask the General Conference to adopt the  draft resolution contained in paragraph 6 of the aforementioned document, which reads as follows: “The General
377  Conference, Having regard to the provisions of Rules 2 and 3 of its Rules of Procedure, Considering that, on the date  fixed by Rule 3, no Member State had invited the General Conference to hold its 35th session in its territory, Decides to  hold its 35th session at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris.” That is the draft resolution; I think it is very clear,  we must just decide on the place where the Conference is going to be held. Are there any objections? I see none, so the  draft resolution is adopted.  Third report by the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee  Troisième rapport du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs  Tercer informe de la Presidenta del Comité de Verificación de Poderes  Третий доклад Председателя Комитета по проверке полномочий  א א  א 全权证书委员会主席的第三次报告
3. The President:   I would like now to proceed to the examination of the third report of the Chairperson of the Credentials  Committee, Ina Marčiulionytė, whom quite a few of us particularly appreciate. Ms Marčiulionytė, please.
4. Ms Marčiulionytė (Lithuania) (Chairperson of the Credentials Committee):   Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, since my second report was read out in plenary on Monday 22 October
2007, the Committee has received credentials in due form from the delegations of the following Member States, which  had previously submitted provisional credentials: Guatemala and Sao Tome and Principe. In conformity with the authority  delegated to me by the Credentials Committee, I propose that the General Conference accept these credentials. The  delegations of the following Member States have not yet submitted credentials: Antigua and Barbuda, Guinea-Bissau,  Kiribati, Micronesia (Federated States of), Niue and Tuvalu. The delegations of the following Associate Members have  not yet submitted credentials: Aruba, Cayman Islands, Macao (China) and Tokelau. Finally, the observer delegation of  Liechtenstein has not yet submitted credentials.
5. The President:   Thank you very much for the short, but substantial report. I congratulate you once more, and the Committee,  because they have worked systematically. Are there any comments from Member States on the short report that  Ms Marčiulionytė has just presented to us. I see none, so may we consider that the General Conference takes note of  the third report of the Chairperson of the Credentials Committee? It is so decided.  Report of the Nominations Committee (34 C/62)  Rapport du Comité des candidatures (34 C/62)  Informe del Comité de Candidaturas (34 C/62)  Доклад Комитета по кандидатурам (34 С/62)  )٣٤/٦٢(א   提名委员会的报告（34 C/62）
6. The President:   Before turning to the examination and adoption of the report of the PRX Commission (general questions,  programme support and external relations), I would like to give the floor to the Acting Chairperson of the Nominations  Committee, Ms Cankorur, who will present the report of the Nominations Committee in the absence of its Chairperson. In  fact, Ms Cankorur has chaired all the work of the Nominations Committee.
7.1 Ms Cankorur (Turkey) (Acting Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Thank you, Mr President. Good morning distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. The report before you,  document 34 C/62, reflects the final proposals of the Nominations Committee concerning the composition of committees,  commissions and other subsidiary organs of the General Conference, following the results of the elections held on  Thursday 25 October and Friday 26 October.
7.2 Mr President, once the report has been adopted by the plenary, I shall – if you allow me – make some  comments on the functioning of the Nominations Committee. Thank you very much.
8. The President:   Thank you, Ms Cankorur, for the introduction. If you would like to make any comments, please go ahead.
9.1 Ms Cankorur (Turkey) (Acting Chairperson of the Nominations Committee):   Mr President, distinguished delegates, at the outset, I should like to thank you for your cooperation over the last  three weeks in support of the work of the Nominations Committee. This has enabled the Committee to carry out its main  tasks effectively – namely, to organize the election of the new Members of the Executive Board for the period 2007-2011,  under agenda item 12.1; and, in addition, to organize the elections to the various commissions, committees and  subsidiary organs of the General Conference, pursuant to items 12.2 to 12.15 of our agenda.
9.2 Before moving to the electoral process, I would like to inform you that Montenegro and Singapore, our new  Member States which have joined UNESCO in 2007, have officially informed the Director-General of their wishes  concerning the grouping of Member States for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board as follows: Montenegro  wishes to belong to Group II, and Singapore wishes to belong to Group IV. Electoral Groups II and IV have also notified
378  the Nominations Committee that they are in agreement with these proposals. The Nominations Committee hereby  reports to the plenary of the General Conference that it has taken note of the membership of Montenegro and Singapore  of the respective groups for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board.
9.3 While it is true that any electoral process is complex in itself, because of the framework of rules within which it  takes place, Member States as a whole have displayed great civic interest, as reflected in their wholehearted  participation in that process, while respecting the mandate given to the Nominations Committee under Rule 35 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. The first stage in the Committee’s work, at the beginning of the 34th  session of the General Conference, consisted of the submission to the General Conference of the lists of nominations for  the posts of President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and Chairpersons of the programme  commissions, the Administrative Commission and the committees, in accordance with the recommendations adopted by  the Executive Board in 177 EX/Decision 42 and 177 EX/Decision 43.
9.4  The Committee then undertook to determine nominations for consideration of the Vice-Chairpersons and  rapporteurs who would form the bureaux of the commissions and committees of the General Conference. Except for the  Administrative Commission, Culture Commission and Social and Human Sciences Commission, where Rapporteurs had  to be confirmed in their respective commissions, the composition of the bureaux of the remaining commissions and  committees was completed during the first meeting of the Nominations Committee thanks to the prior consultations  undertaken by the electoral groups. However, for the next session of the General Conference, in order to avoid last- minute negotiations and to further facilitate the work of all commissions and committees, we, the representatives of the  Member States, should prepare well in advance, within the corresponding electoral groups, the various nominations for  posts of Vice-Chairpersons and Rapporteurs, in keeping with the statutory requirement of balanced geographical  distribution. Thus, we would be in a position to inform the Secretariat in a timely manner of the composition of the  bureaux of commissions and committees of the General Conference.
9.5 The third task entrusted to the Committee was that of organizing the election of Members of the Executive  Board. With regard to the procedure approved by the General Conference, I am pleased to report that this task was  carried out successfully in compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference governing these elections.  The Member States once again displayed their interest and enthusiasm by participating actively in the various stages of  the process which led to the vote held on Wednesday 24 October 2007. The participation of 175 Member States out of
181 entitled to vote in this electoral process shows the growing interest of our countries in the governing bodies of the  Organization.
9.6 I will now move on to the elections of the members of the commissions, committees and other subsidiary organs  of the General Conference. You will recall that these elections, carried out in two separate secret ballots, took place  during the sixth and eighth meetings of the Nominations Committee, on Thursday 25 October and Friday 26 October  respectively. The elections were carried out in conformity with the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and, as  I have mentioned earlier, with a considerable turn-out. Please note that out of 182 Member States entitled to vote,
161 Member States cast votes in the first ballot, and 122 Member States in the second ballot. I would like to highlight the  participation of Members States in all these elections, and in particular, their interest in the democratic governance  process in UNESCO. In this regard, several Member States voluntarily limited their membership at half-mandate in some  subsidiary organs in order to allow the participation of other Member States, thus improving the rotation of Member  States in these organs.
9.7 I would also like to emphasize that due to intensive and fruitful consultations among the electoral groups, only 21  secret ballots were held out of a possible total of 74. This illustrates the growing tendency of Member States to reach  agreement in advance, within the electoral groups, so as to ensure that the number of candidates matches the number of  seats to be filled. It is nevertheless a matter for regret that insufficient candidatures were received from certain electoral  groups for three subsidiary organs, namely, the Legal Committee, the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission  Responsible for Seeking the Settlement of any Disputes which may arise between States Parties to the Convention  against Discrimination in Education, and the Intergovernmental Council of the Management of Social Transformations  Programme (IGC-MOST). It is our genuine hope that this will not happen in the future.
9.8 I wish to bring to your attention the fact that for the second ballot on 26 October, only English and French  interpretation was available. This was due to various side events taking place on that same day, together with the three  programme commissions. The Member States kindly agreed to conduct the elections in English and French only, and I  take this opportunity to thank their representatives for their understanding and cooperation.
9.9 Finally, Mr President, I would like to make the following observation: the 48-hour deadline for submitting  candidatures for election to the Executive Board and the subsidiary organs of the General Conference actually affects  the efficiency of the electoral process, since the lists of candidatures by electoral groups are continuously updated and  revised until the very last moment. Therefore, I believe that this issue could be taken up by the Member States with a  view to improving the election process.
9.10 Mr President, allow me to thank you personally for your interest and continuous support in the work of our  Committee and the electoral process. I would also like to thank Her Excellency Ms Yolande Bike, Ambassador and  Permanent Delegate of Gabon and Vice-President of the General Conference, for her able leadership and supervision of  the election of Members of the Executive Board. I take this opportunity to express my gratitude also to the tellers,  Ms Mette de Lorent Gad (Denmark), Mr Dumitru Preda (Romania), Ms Acsamary Guzmán (Dominican Republic),  Mr Azamat Kadyraliev (Kyrgyzstan), Ms Charlotte Gnoundou-Moussoni (Gabon) and Ms Zeina Saleh-Kayali (Lebanon)  for the Election of Members of the Executive Board; Ms Mette de Lorent Gad (Denmark) again, Mr Dumitru Preda  (Romania), Mr Julian Ochoa (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela), Mr Ahmad Zahir Faqiri (Afghanistan), Ms Elizabeth
379  Paula Napeyok (Uganda) and Mr Ahmed Salah Bayomi (Sudan) for the elections of the members of the subsidiary  organs, for the time and effort they devoted to the electoral process. Let me also extend my thanks to the Vice- Chairpersons and Rapporteur of the Nominations Committee; my own thanks also go to the interpreters, technical and  support staff and to the Secretariat of the General Conference. Finally, l would like to express my appreciation to the  Secretariat of the Nominations Committee, Mr Silviu Dragan, Mr Michee Detinho, Ms Otilia Gisca, Mr Dulat Kasymov, Ms  Rosanna Karam, Ms Thu Huong Nguyen Duy, Mr Ieng Srong, and to the legal counsellors for their assistance and  support in the election process. Thank you.
10.1 The President:   Thank you very much. That was a substantial report, and I was only pleased that it was a short one, albeit with a  number of points that colleagues should take into consideration for the future. Elections were in general held in the time  initially provided for them and without the slightest problem, so I would like to congratulate Ms Cankorur, because she  oversaw them. Of course, I am sure that the General Conference shares the thanks she has already expressed to the  people who have been assisting her. I would like to ask whether there are any comments from colleagues about this  report. This does not seem to be the case. I will thank again the Acting Chairperson of the Nominations Committee for  the work of the Committee and her own work, and I wonder whether I can consider that the General Conference takes  note of the report of the Nominations Committee. Are there any objections? It does not seem to be the case, so we take  note of the report. Thank you again, Ms Cankorur.
10.2 Now, we are moving rather quickly today, I am sorry, we could have considered other reports as well, but they  are not all ready, of course, because we are still waiting for some commissions to finish their work. I would not have  wanted the General Conference to make decisions without having texts before it. I do not think that would be proper.  Report of the PRX Commission (general questions, programme support and external relations) (34 C/78)  Rapport de la Commission PRX (questions générales, soutien du programme et relations extérieures) (34 C/78)  Informe de la Comisión PRX (Asuntos generales, apoyo del programa y relaciones exteriores) (34 C/78)  Доклад Комиссии PRX (общие вопросы, поддержка выполнения программы и внешние связи) (34 С/78)  א א אא  )٣٤/٧٨()PRX(א 计划与对外关系委员会（PRX）（一般性问题、计划支助及对外关系）的报告（34 C/78）
11. The President:   We are on the report of the PRX Commission, and I would like to give the floor to our Lebanese colleague,  Ms Salwa Siniora Baassiri, Chairperson of the PRX Commission (general questions, programme support and external  relations). Ms Baassiri had initially a somewhat rough time, as was to be expected, but she ran the Commission well and  put everything in order in the time allotted, so we are quite glad. I would like to congratulate her, even before she takes  the floor, because that was no mean achievement. Ms Baassiri, you have the floor.  ((א ١٢,١ א) א א א  )PRX−א א  א.א א א ، א א א ، א א ،،א א א א אא א אא א א א אא א א א א.א א א א א א א א ، ،א א א א א א א א א א ،.א א א א ، א א א א ،.٢٠٠٧/א١٧٢٠אא א א א א ، א.א א א א א א א ، א א א א ،א א א א א א א ، א א א א א א א א א ، א  .٣٤/٧٨א א ١٢,٢ א ، א אאא א :١٤,١،א א א א א א א א.א ، א א א، אאא אא ، א א א א ، א:א א ، א ، א א א אא אא א א، א.א ، א ، א١٤,١א א א.א א א٣٠א א.א א ، א א אא א א.א א א א א א א א א א ، אא.א א ، אא א א א א א א א א א.א א א א"א ".א א א א א א א א א.א א א.א א א ، א א ، א א א א א א  .א
(12.1) Ms Baassiri (Lebanon) (Chairperson of the PRX Commission) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the General Conference, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, distinguished  colleagues and friends, honourable delegates. It is both an honour and a privilege to present this oral report on the work of the  PRX Commission to the UNESCO General Conference at its 34th session. But may I first take this opportunity to express my  gratitude to the members of this Commission representing Member States for the quality of debate, as well as the spirit of  cooperation, flexibility and mutual understanding they displayed during the eight intense meetings which dealt with the
12 important topics that affect the core functions of this Organization. The Commission had a rather heavy workload that made  it imperative to have one additional meeting and two extended meetings to complement the planned agenda between 17 and
20 October 2007. I also wish to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Bureau for their valuable support, particularly  the Rapporteur, Mr Konaté. Considering the time constraints which we need to observe, I would ask your permission to  present to you just a short report that would reflect the gist of the discussions and the decisions reached by the Commission,  in the knowledge that the substantive and procedural questions tackled throughout the meetings, together with the adopted  recommendations, form an integral part of the written report of the Commission submitted as document 34 C/78.
(12.2) Mr President, the first debate was devoted to the item on the coordination and monitoring of action to benefit Africa, as  well as to item 14.1 “Preparation of a special post-conflict overall support programme in UNESCO’s fields of competence for  Côte d’Ivoire”. The representative of the Director-General, Mr Tidjani-Serpos, Assistant Director-General for the Africa  Department, provided an overall introduction of the activities to be undertaken during the next biennium, namely, the  strengthening of the cooperation with African Member States, the mobilization of partners, the intersectoral coordination of the  platform to benefit Africa and the coordination of the post-conflict activities. He was followed by the representative of Côte  d’Ivoire, Ms Akissi, who presented item 14.1 on the preparation of a support programme for Côte d’Ivoire. Representatives of
30 Member States took the floor. Several delegates expressed their satisfaction with the excellent work of the Africa  Department and the alignment of the activities with the African Union platforms for action. They also welcomed the creation of  an intersectoral platform for action regarding Africa, but raised the question of whether the resources allocated to the  Department were sufficient. Concerning the post-conflict support programme for Côte d’Ivoire, many delegates expressed their  support for such a programme, indicating the need to come up with a budgetary estimate of associated costs and to ensure  programme intersectorality. I would like to mention at this point the request of the distinguished delegate of France who  suggested a different formulation of the title of the programme, namely a “crisis-exit programme” (“programme de sortie de  crise”). After a long debate, in order to be consistent with the terms of the United Nations Security Council resolutions on the  situation in Côte d’Ivoire, equivalent terms were adopted. The draft resolution concerning this item, as amended orally, was  approved by consensus by the Commission.
(12.3) Debate 2 dealt with the work of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics (UIS). As part of this debate, the Commission  examined draft resolutions 34 C/DR.20 and 34 C/DR.25 submitted respectively by Finland and France. The representatives of
24 Member States took the floor. In his introduction, the Director of the Institute for Statistics, Mr Van der Pol, noted changes  in the UIS Statistical Capacity-Building Programme and the Literacy Assessment and Monitoring Programme (LAMP). He also  described the strategy for improving data quality by more efficient internal organization and a stronger UIS presence at the  regional level. Many delegates expressed their support for the work of UIS, which was said to be crucial in the education for all
383  (EFA) monitoring process, and in working with Member States to develop capacity in statistics collection. Additional points  were raised, among which the growing demand for cultural statistics, especially in monitoring implementation of the 2005  Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions; the actual capacity and resources of the  Institute to meet these demands; the need to maintain UIS technical support to Member States in education statistics, and the  working relations with other international agencies. Following the debate, the Commission considered draft resolution
34 C/DR.20 which proposed to increase the UIS budget to develop standards in cultural statistics and to monitor the  implementation of the recent 2005 Convention. The Commission decided not to retain this draft resolution and the Director of  UIS suggested setting up a working group to move forward on this issue.
(12.4) As for draft resolution 34 C/DR.25 concerning the launching of the revision of the International Standard Classification  of Education (ISCED), some amendments were introduced to allow for more time to pursue the revision – until the
35th session of the General Conference – with an interim report at the end of the next biennium and with no budgetary  implications. The Commission then addressed item 14.2 “Holocaust remembrance”, during debate 3, at its second, third and  fifth meetings. The representatives of 37 Member States and one Observer took the floor. In addition, nine non-governmental  organizations distributed a joint statement of support for the draft resolution. Given the very complicated, multifaceted and  multidimensional nature of this debate and the divergence of views on the draft resolution included in the document being  examined, 34 C/49, an informal working group was established which had several discussions in which I took part, and which  arrived at a common position for the Commission’s eighth meeting just before approving its report.
(12.5) Mr President, after the endorsement by the Commission of the resolution on the Holocaust Remembrance, several  representatives of Member States took the floor and some of them requested that I make reference to their statements in my  oral report. The Arab Group in the person of the representative of Palestine voiced its appreciation for the amendment to  paragraph 6 by including, “… in consultation with Member States” and the reference to resolutions 60/7 and 61/255 of the  United Nations General Assembly. Nevertheless, the Arab Group called for joint efforts to promote through all UNESCO fields  of competence greater awareness of human dignity, tolerance and mutual respect for all the religions and beliefs. The  representative of the Arab Group further stated that this amendment was not driven by a rejection of Holocaust Remembrance  but by the need to have the text reflect universal principles. Second, the representative of Egypt expressed her full support for  the resolution and expressed the wish that the Organization support in the future all resolutions that condemn crimes against  humanity without exception, notwithstanding differences of opinion. Third, the representative of Israel voiced his satisfaction  and considered the approval of the resolution to be a historic decision for UNESCO. He stressed UNESCO’s responsibility for  contributing to educating future generations and expressed Israel’s readiness to contribute to this work. Fourth, the  representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran reiterated the condemnation of all kinds of genocide and crimes against humanity  and expressed support to the amendment.
(12.6) Mr President, debate 4 grouped several items linked to external relations and cooperation. The representative of the  Director-General, Mr Ahmed Sayyad, Assistant Director-General for External Relations and Cooperation (ADG/ERC), made an  overall introduction to these items. He presented the main lines of action for the coming biennium and underlined the  importance of cooperation with the Member States, National Commissions and international organizations, as well as with civil  society and the private sector. Mr Sayyad recalled that ERC was a support sector, but which also manages important  programmes, such as the Fellowships Programme, the UNESCO Coupons Programme and the Participation Programme.  Fifty-three Member States took part in this debate, stressing the need to give continuity to capacity-building activities for  National Commissions.
(12.7) Concerning the Participation Programme, the statements of delegates highlighted the key role of this programme both  in developing UNESCO’s activities and in enhancing its visibility throughout the world. Many delegates regretted the reduction  of its budget, whereas others requested more flexibility, both on the nature of projects and on the deadlines for their  implementation. Delegates also requested that priority be given to projects benefiting least developed countries (LDCs),  developing countries, post-conflict and post-disaster countries, small island developing States (SIDS) and countries in  transition. The need to reinforce North-South and South-South joint programmes was also highlighted. In the light of this  discussion, the Commission amended paragraph 09000 of document 34 C/5 2nd version Volume 1 and its Corrigendum as  amended by document 34 C/6 Add. so as to include these considerations. The Commission moved on to consider item 6.2  concerning the question of the definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of regional activities.  Member States welcomed both the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Singapore’s recent accession to UNESCO. As  for item 5.1 “Proposals by Member States for the celebration of anniversaries in 2008-2009 with which UNESCO could be  associated”, several representatives noted that National Commissions have an important role to play in these celebrations. On  item 10.1 concerning the contribution made to UNESCO’s activities by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) during the  period 2001-2006, the Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the report by the Executive Board  to the General Conference (34 C/27) and adopt the proposed resolution included in paragraph 166 thereof. Several speakers  commended ERC’s efforts to promote partnerships with civil society, including the organization of the International Forum of  Civil Society.
(12.8) Mr President, the Commission then moved to debate 5, which dealt with the Fellowships Programme and anticipation  and foresight activities. As part of this debate held during the fifth and sixth meetings, the Commission also examined draft  resolution 34 C/DR.18 submitted by Sweden, which proposed the termination of both the Fellowships Programme and the  anticipation and foresight activities and the reallocation of the corresponding funds, together with some of the funds earmarked  for the Executive Board, to the UNESCO education institutes. Representatives of 33 Member States took the floor. This was  also a long debate where issues of procedure and substance had to be clarified. The Commission opted to focus first on  discussing the relevance of both programmes – the Fellowships Programme as well as anticipation and foresight activities –  and in the light of this discussion, moved to consider draft resolution 34 C/DR.18 and how it would affect the programmes. It  was made clear that the implications of the draft resolution on the budget of the Executive Board were being discussed in  parallel by the Administrative Commission. Following presentations by the representative of the Director-General, Mr Ahmed  Sayyad, some members recognized the centrality of the Fellowships Programme to UNESCO’s mandate as an intellectual  organization. They underlined the crucial role the Programme had played throughout the years in terms of building capacity in  developing countries and allowing leading specialists to acquire and share their knowledge. Furthermore, they argued for  increasing the efficiency of the Programme and diminishing its administrative costs. A majority of the speakers, however, felt  strongly that the Programme was essential and should be maintained. The representative of the Director-General, Mr D’Orville,  then introduced the anticipation and foresight activities. Delegates expressed critical views of the activities planned as well as  of the results of the previous ones. While underscoring the need to preserve foresight analysis as a core function of the  Organization, many speakers suggested that programme sectors themselves could integrate this function and its
384  corresponding budget for activities. The representative of the Director-General indicated however the convenience of  maintaining a central unit to provide a global view and to coordinate activities. The idea of establishing an intersectoral  platform, to be placed under the authority of the Director-General, emerged from this discussion. Speakers requested in  addition that an update of the evaluation of the anticipation and foresight programme presented at the 175th session of the  Executive Board be submitted at the 179th session. Furthermore, some speakers asked for a financial and performance audit  to be carried out by the External Auditor. In the light of this discussion, the Commission amended paragraph 10600 of  document 34 C/5 2nd version Volume 1 and its Corrigendum as amended by document 34 C/6 Add. so as to include those  considerations. As result of the discussions on the Fellowships Programme and the anticipation and foresight activities, the  Commission decided not to retain draft resolution 34 C/DR.18.
(12.9) Mr President, I now move to debate 6, which dealt both with public information activities and item 5.7 “Directives  concerning the use of the name, acronym, logo and Internet domain names of UNESCO”. The Commission benefited from the  presence of Mr Kono, Chairperson of the Legal Committee, who explained the amendments to the text of the Directives as  well as the draft resolution proposed by the Committee to the General Conference for its adoption in order to improve the  meaning of the Directives and avoid any legal ambiguity. As regards the public information programme and budget, the  representative of the Director-General, Mr Muñoz Gomez, Director of the Bureau of Public Information, outlined the main  activities being developed and highlighted their successful integration into UNESCO’s communication plan and strategy  launched in 2007. He also presented facts and figures showing increased visibility and effective use of the Organization’s  information resources. Nine Member States took the floor during the discussions in the sixth and seventh meetings of the  Commission. Delegates commended the Secretariat for the overall improvement of public information, in particular the  revamping of the UNESCO web portal, the efforts carried to support multilingualism and communication activities at the  country level. Concerning the use of UNESCO’s name, acronym, logo and Internet domain names, there was consensus that  the Directives, as amended by the Legal Committee, could now be definitively approved and the Commission recommended  that the General Conference take note of document 34 C/26 and adopt paragraph 15 in the light of the observations expressed  by the Legal Committee. Upon considering the proposed resolution contained in paragraph 10300 of document 34 C/6 Add.,  several delegates suggested introducing an amendment in order to reallocate funds from the public information budget to the  budget of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). While the representative of the Director- General pointed out that the proposed budget reduction for public information did not specify which part of the programme  would need to be reduced accordingly, all speakers considered the IOC a priority and agreed that it required additional budget  resources, but there was no agreement that the amount should be drawn from the budget for public information. In conclusion,  the Commission recommended putting the budget figures being considered for public information in brackets.
(12.10) I am now pleased, Mr President, to continue with the rest of the Commission’s work, moving to debate 7, which  examined a number of items related to strategic planning and programme monitoring, including the preparation of the next  Programme and Budget (35 C/5) and the consideration of the Medium-Term Strategy (C/4). Seven members spoke during this  debate. The representative of the Director-General, Mr Le Saux, introduced the different items, all related to the core functions  developed by the Bureau of Strategic Planning (BSP) in the areas of programme preparation, monitoring and reporting, based  on results-based management (RBM) principles. He also referred to the strategic functions of the Bureau with regard to cross- sectoral themes such as dialogue among civilizations and cultures. He stressed the role of BSP in ensuring gender equality  and in monitoring the targeted activities benefiting Africa and other priority groups. Finally, Mr Le Saux evoked the role of the  Bureau in formulating strategies and approaches to ensure UNESCO’s involvement at the country level in line with the United  Nations reform process. Speakers acknowledged the importance of focusing on strategic planning and programme monitoring,  based on robust RBM approaches. The Commission recommended the adoption of the proposed resolution on item 4.2,  including reference to the C/3 document. It also noted that its discussions would be taken into account when finalizing the next  C/4 document and took note of documents related to the preparation of the next C/5 document.
(12.11) The Commission then undertook its deliberations on debate 8: item 6.1 “Implementation of 33 C/Resolution 92  (Relations between the three organs of UNESCO)”. Eight delegates took the floor during the debate. Mr Michael Millward,  Secretary of the General Conference, introduced this item by setting the context. He recalled that the heads of the three  organs had discussed the issue in the Plenary meeting. Mr Boughaba, Vice-Chairperson of the Legal Committee, also  informed the Commission of the recommendations of the Committee which were reflected in document 34 C/75. Delegates  expressed their satisfaction with the documents being examined, but insisted that there was still room for improvement,  notably in terms of coordination and decision-making flows. They also called for the constitutional roles and rules and  regulation of each body to be respected and recalled that, ultimately, the General Conference was the supreme decision- making body. The representatives of the Director-General took note of the Commission’s opinion, underscored the need to  keep the dialogue open and indicated that it was an important issue for the next Chairperson of the Executive Board. In the  light of the recommendation of the Legal Committee, France, Grenada, Netherlands, Norway and Saint Lucia submitted draft  resolution 34/COM.PRX/DR.2 which was approved by the Commission at its eighth and last session.
(12.12) Debate 9 dealt with item 2.2. “Reports by the Executive Board”, and draft resolution 34 C/COM.PRX/DR.1, submitted  by Brazil. The item was introduced by Ms Samira Hanna-El-Daher, Chairperson of the Special Committee of the Executive  Board, who introduced the report prepared by a working group set up by the Executive Board focusing on the format and type  of information needed by the Executive Board to carry out its assessment and reporting functions. Representatives of three  Member States contributed to the debate, commending this initial endeavour of the Working Group, and suggesting the  introduction of changes in the architecture of SISTER (System of Information on Strategies, Tasks and the Evaluation of  Results). The Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution proposed in the Addendum  to document 34 C/9 Part II as amended by the Commission. The Commission then examined draft resolution
34 C/COM.PRX/DR.1 on the CIAD process and in particular the follow-up to the Second Conference of Intellectuals from  Africa and the Diaspora. The delegate from Brazil presented the draft resolution inviting the Director-General to ensure  continuity to the CIAD process. Four delegates took the floor in support of the initiative, and the Commission recommended  that the General Conference adopt the draft resolution in extenso.
(12.13) Mr President, the last debate of the Commission was held during an extended session on Saturday, 20 October, in the  evening. It dealt with yet another delicate issue, namely item 14.3 “Remembrance of victims of the Great Famine (Holodomor)  in Ukraine”. From the start, and in order to avoid a lengthy debate similar to the one we had had on the Holocaust, the  delegate of Ukraine suggested the postponement of the debate so as to allow time to come up with consensual language for  the draft resolution to be examined. The Commission decided to establish a working group composed of Argentina, Canada,  Egypt, Germany, Kazakhstan, Norway, Poland, Russian Federation, Serbia, Tajikistan, Ukraine and United States of America,.
385  I myself took part in the discussions and we found compromise language for the resolution which was endorsed by the  Commission at its eighth meeting.
(12.14) Mr President, as I conclude my report, I hope that I have been brief and able to share with the distinguished delegates  the central ideas of our debates in the PRX Commission, which had to deal with decisions important for the future policy and  actions of the Organization, and other matters specifically related to many facets and dimensions. I take this opportunity to  commend you and pay tribute to the way you have managed the proceedings of the General Conference. I also wish to thank  the Vice-Chairpersons, the Secretariat and, in particular, the Secretary of the PRX Commission, Mr Matoko and his very  professional and committed team, the interpreters as well as Mr Souheil El Zein, the Commission’s Legal Adviser, Mr Ahmed  Sayyad, the Assistant Director-General and the other representatives of the Director-General who took part in presenting the  items on the Commission’s agenda and answered the questions raised thereon. Thank you all.  (Applause)
13.1 The President:   Thank you much, indeed, Ms Baassiri, for a very substantial report. Most of us knew what difficult subjects this  Commission had to face, and we are pleased that every effort you made produced good results. You fought for good  results on most of the difficult and thorny questions that you had to tackle. I would not say that I have been influenced by  your kind words about the way the presidency tries to do its work, but you deserve considerable praise from this General  Conference for an excellent piece of work.
13.2 Do any colleagues wish to take the floor? I think Ms Baassiri has given us a very thorough report, and naturally,  as short as possible, given that the Commission had to deal with dozens of questions. Are there any colleagues who  want to comment or to raise questions about this? The Russian Federation, please.
(14) Mr Kalamanov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):  Mr President, I would like to ask a question. We have joined the consensus and, as I understand it, after we have adopted the  resolution thereon, you will give us the floor just for a brief statement.
15.1 The President:   Ambassador, without the slightest doubt, I will give you the floor after the adoption in principle of this report. Are  there other colleagues who would like to take the floor now or afterwards? It does not seem to be the case, so I would  like to propose to the General Conference that it approve the report of the PRX Commission and adopt, in principle, the  draft resolutions contained in document 34 C/78, subject of course to the decisions that the Conference may take on  budgetary issues when adopting the Appropriations Resolution for 2008-2009. We are clear, I hope sufficiently clear on  that. Are there any objections?
15.2 Thank you very much. So we adopt the draft resolutions contained in 34 C/78 subject to the decisions on the  Appropriations Resolution. I now give the Russian representative the floor. Thank you.
(16) Mr Kalamanov (Russian Federation) (translation from the Russian):   Thank you very much, Mr President. Distinguished colleagues, the General Conference of UNESCO, in plenary at its
34th session, has just adopted by consensus a resolution which is in part in memory of the victims of the Great Famine of
1932-1933. Like other crimes of Stalinism, hunger took the lives of millions of people in the Soviet Union. We solemnly honour  their memory and will do everything within our power to ensure that this dreadful lesson is learnt once and for all by humanity.  When we talk about the past, we must look to the future. UNESCO has said what it had to say, now it is up to the historians.  Only their meticulous work can help to shed light on these tragic pages of history and perpetuate the memory of the victims of  the tragedy. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
17. The President:   Thank you very much, dear Ambassador. Ukraine would now like also to take the floor.
(18) Mr Ogryzko (Ukraine) (translation from the Russian):   Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to say that the delegation of Ukraine submitted the draft resolution  “Remembrance of victims of the Great Famine (Holodomor) in Ukraine” which was adopted today unanimously. I should like to  thank the 45 countries which joined us, co-sponsoring the resolution. It is extremely important that the General Conference  has expressed its solidarity with the victims of the 1932-1933 Holodomor in Ukraine, and the victims of the famine which also  took place in other parts of the former Soviet Union. We are grateful to the General Conference, which has invited Member  States to consider taking part in events that will be staged by the Government of Ukraine in this connection this year and next  year, and we are also pleased that scholars will surely be researching further this tragic chapter in the life of the Ukrainian  people. Thank you very much.
19. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador. Are there any other declarations after the approval of the report? Israel,  please.
20.1 Mr Kornbluth (Israel):   Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, distinguished delegates. I think it is important for me to mark the  approval in the PRX Commission, and now here, of the resolution on Holocaust remembrance. And the way I wish to  mark that, if you will permit me, is to reiterate some of the points that I made in the Commission itself about the decision,  this time, of course, for the record.
20.2 Clearly, this is a historic decision for UNESCO. I certainly wish to thank the States that proposed the Holocaust  remembrance item together with Israel, namely Australia, Canada, Russian Federation and United States of America,  which worked so hard and constantly on this item. I wish also to thank all the other 66 or more States that rose to the  occasion and co-sponsored the draft resolution. I was especially heartened by the co-sponsors’ meeting and the  understanding showed there about the uniqueness of the Holocaust.
20.3 This is the first resolution Israel has helped to initiate in living memory. Sadly, some of the remarks we heard in  that PRX Commission make it clear that education on the Holocaust is extremely necessary, and that there remains  much to do. I think it is very important that I say in front of everybody here that I wish to make one point extremely clear:  Israel and the Jewish people claim no monopoly on the suffering of individuals or of nations. The tragedies that other  peoples have suffered for whatever reason are real. But any false comparisons or connections are completely  inappropriate. We all hope that the current peace negotiations will lead to true and lasting peace in our area. Our  decision can help that in a really true way.
20.4 Mr President, we remember the unparalleled crime perpetrated against the Jewish people when 6 million or  more Jews, a third of our people, including 1½ million children, were murdered with barbaric cruelty by the Nazi regime in  Europe. No Israeli diplomat, at any international organization can ignore that. Today is an extraordinary day in UNESCO  as we adopt this resolution. The self-image of many people, States, and international organizations passes through their  attitude to what happened then. The whole new worldwide regime of democracy and human rights flows from the idea  that the post-war world must be made a better place.
20.5 Recognition of the Holocaust is reflected in the very Constitution of UNESCO, which says that education can  prevent war. It must be an education for peace against anti-Semitism and all other forms of racism. Unfortunately, the  threat of genocide still exists; the threat against my people remains. Denial of the Holocaust, which we have all  condemned today, is part of that. Now we in UNESCO can and must work to prevent a recurrence of the Holocaust. It  can be done. It must be done. UNESCO’s historic decision shows the way forward. UNESCO now has a responsibility to  help to contribute to educating future generations, not just to remember the Holocaust but also to condemn and combat  the anti-Semitic act of Holocaust denial. UNESCO must help advise States on ways to create awareness of this ultimate  evil so as to prevent its return.
20.6 In conclusion, I wish to say that we in UNESCO look forward to working closely with the Director-General and  with the Secretariat as it takes up this new responsibility and challenge. I know this is something which is very serious in  my country, very serious for the Jewish people, and very serious for UNESCO. Thank you very much, Mr President.
21. The President:   Thank you very much, David. Is there anyone else who wishes to take the floor? Yes, the Ambassador of the  Islamic Republic of Iran, please.
22.1 Mr Dehshiri (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Thank you Mr President. I would only like to clarify our position regarding the resolution on Holocaust  remembrance. We asked for our position to be annexed to the report of the Commission.
22.2 Secondly, we express our reservation regarding the name of one of the philosophers, Sayyed Jamāl-ed-Dīn,  and I also ask for that reservation to be included in the report of the PRX Commission. I would also thank the  distinguished Chairperson of the PRX Commission for all her efforts regarding these two issues. Thank you.
23. The President:   Thank you very much. Egypt has also asked for the floor.    )(א .٢٤ א  א ، א א א ، ، א א ، א ،א אא א א א א(PRX)א א ، ، ، א א א א.٤٠א א א א אא
(24) Ms Kenawy (Egypt) (translation from the Arabic):   Thank you, Mr President, I apologize for taking the floor but I too should like to clarify something. As was stated in the  plenary report today, and recalled by the Chairperson of the PRX Commission, there were many discussions on the item in  question, with the number of participants in the discussion on this item in the meeting room alone reaching, if I remember  correctly, 40 States. Many dialogues took place outside the room in the corridors of this noble Organization which strives to  build the defences of peace in the minds of men. What I should like to make clear, from the viewpoint of my country’s  delegation and of the Arab Group, is that the dialogue was, praise be to God, a very constructive dialogue between the  different parties sponsoring the draft resolution. The aim was to avoid opening the door wide to or providing the opportunity for  a large number of such draft resolutions which call for people to think, albeit through different education programmes, to  remember tragedies inflicted by nationalities or States on other States, nationalities or races. In fact, it must be recalled to  future generations to ensure that it never happens again. There is no doubt that the Holocaust was unique, this is a fact, and  Egypt would like to emphasize it. Here too there are many tragedies which the world does not talk about and of which the  world is not aware. Many of us, even in this Organization, do not know much about them but they are no less significant than  the cruelty that also happened in the Holocaust. We are not opposed to the draft resolution but we were striving to ensure that  the Organization fulfils its humane goals by means of listening to each other and trying to understand what others say. As  Voltaire said, I must listen to you whether you are the same as me or completely different to me, but I must listen to you when  you listen to me too. That was the main objective in listening to each other and in fact as we listened to each other, we  cooperated in wording this draft resolution in the most consensual way, and all the parties agreed to it. This was the objective  of the amendments proposed by the delegation of Egypt to this draft resolution, which is of the utmost importance. Thank you.
25. The President:   Thank you very much, Ambassador Kenawy, but I have to make it very clear. I am sorry, but explanations,  declarations are, by their very nature, short. The Chair is not prepared to have a repetition of the whole debate at this  time and hour. So you must be brief, if you want to make a statement – explanations do not need to be a whole volume.  Thank you very much. Afghanistan now, please, and Côte d’Ivoire, and no others, unless they feel that it is absolutely  important for them, because we are now beginning to have a repetition of the whole discussion, which the Chairperson  and her colleagues took four days or even more to complete. Afghanistan, please.
26.1 Mr Aziz (Afghanistan):   Good morning, Mr President, I shall be brief, and I am sorry to take the floor, but I was forced to do so,  Mr President, after the intervention of the distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The issue of  changing the name of a scholar, a citizen of Afghanistan, Sayyed Jamāl-ed-Dīn Afghānī, was discussed in the  Commission, and it was solved. We cannot go back to the issue once we have already adopted the report of the  Commission.
26.2 Secondly, the gentleman, who was a citizen of Afghanistan, wrote himself 9,000 times Sayyed Jamāl-ed-Dīn  Afghānī. He died in Istanbul and his remains were taken in 1944 to his country, Afghanistan, and he was buried there.  We cannot change his name 110 years after his death. It is neither intelligent nor moral to do so. In the meantime, the  distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, while associating his country with the proposal of  Afghanistan, wants to change the name of this gentleman. This is not acceptable and I cannot understand it. I hope that  the distinguished representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and I appeal to him, will take back his statement. Thank  you so much, Mr President and dear colleague.
27. The President:   Well, thank you very much, at least for having expressed the intention to be brief. How brief you were, you have  to judge by yourself. Côte d’Ivoire, please.
28. Mme Yao Yao (Côte d’Ivoire) :   Merci, Monsieur le Président. Je prends ici la parole pour remercier tous les États membres qui ont soutenu et  enrichi la résolution que mon pays a présentée. Je voudrais vous donner l’assurance que la Côte d’Ivoire mettra tout en  œuvre pour que cette résolution lui soit profitable, ainsi qu’à toute la sous-région ouest-africaine, et je vous assure que  nous mettrons particulièrement l’accent sur l’éducation. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
29. Le Président :   C’est moi qui vous remercie, Madame, d’avoir été aussi brève. Le délégué de la République Bolivarienne du  Venezuela a la parole.
(30) Mr Osorio (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) (translation from the Spanish):   Thank you, Mr President. Our delegation would also like to express its appreciation for the report presented and in this  connection, for the sake of brevity, we would also like to associate ourselves with the comments of the representative of Egypt.  We do believe, Mr President, that there are other tragedies of history besides the Holocaust that deserve the attention of this  Organization and historians alike. Indeed, many other peoples have throughout their history suffered numerous tragedies,  which have unfortunately brought sadness to the lives of millions, the result of hunger, war and poverty. Thank you very much,  Mr President.
31. The President:   Thank you very much. Iran, I suppose, would like to reply to the Afghanistan Ambassador’s remark? Go ahead.
32. Mr Dehshiri (Islamic Republic of Iran):   Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that Iran has so many scholars and philosophers that it does not  need to borrow from other countries. This is why I should say that Sayyed Jamāl-ed-Dīn Asadābādī was born in  Asadābād, in Hamadān province in Iran. What we asked for is only to take into account our reservation concerning the  name of Sayyed Jamāl-ed-Dīn Asadābādī, known as Afghānī. We did indeed support the suggestion made by  Afghanistan – all we ask is that our reservation is included in the report of the PRX Commission. There is no other issue.
33.1 The President:   All right, we are taking note of all these declarations on the record, so there is no problem about that. I think we  have finished with that report of the PRX Commission, which I personally consider a very good report on a number of  questions. Some of our colleagues characterize them as historic; others have reservations – it does not matter. What  counts is that there were serious questions, and I would like to congratulate our Lebanese colleague once more. There  was excellent cooperation during the time she exercised her presidency, and she exercised it very well. I will take an  initiative with your permission, though the remark I have to make has nothing to do with the Chairperson who was sitting  here until she delivered her report to us. So, I would just like to say, for your consideration: there was a discussion and, if  I remember correctly the American Ambassador, Ms Oliver, and some others made the remark that those who would like  to chair commissions and committees should give an undertaking that they would stay here as long as necessary.
33.2 We found out recently that three Chairpersons of commissions and committees returned to their countries before  they had the chance either to finish their work or to present their report to you. I must tell you also, very earnestly and  very sincerely, that we were quite lucky, not to say extremely lucky, with the quality of the Chairpersons of committees. I  have a very rich experience in this respect, and I must say I was really impressed, it was a very good level. We were also  extremely lucky that the Vice-Chairpersons of the three committees whose Chairpersons returned home early, proved  very able themselves. But I think it is a question of being proper in this General Conference. You can not ask for  committees and go back home after two days; sometimes we have to take matters seriously. We are not cultivating  national egos, I do not care about feelings. I do understand that there are also emergencies at home, but we cannot  distribute presidencies just for the titles. There are obligations to the General Conference, and we must be more serious;  to ourselves first, to our colleagues, second, and to the Conference and to UNESCO, third.
33.3 Well, I think that we have arrived at the end of this morning’s meeting. We will reconvene in the afternoon at
3 p.m. to continue our work. Thank you very much and guten Appetit, as the Germans would say.  The meeting rose at 11.40 a.m.  La séance est levée à 11 h 40  Se levanta la sesión a las 11.40  Заседание закрывается в 11.40  א ١١,٤٠א   会议于 11 时 40 分结束