1.1 Le Président :   Chers collègues, je déclare la séance ouverte. Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le Directeur  général, Excellences, chers collègues, Mesdames, Messieurs, c’est avec grand plaisir que j’accueille, en ma qualité de  Président de la 34e session de la Conférence générale et au nom de toutes les personnes présentes dans cette salle,  Son Excellence Monsieur Sidi Mohamed Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, Président de la République islamique de Mauritanie,.
1.2 Monsieur le Président, votre pays, qui est au carrefour des cultures et de multiples traditions, témoin de  bouleversantes aventures humaines, prend aujourd’hui un nouveau départ. Les élections législatives et présidentielles  du mois de mars 2007, tenues dans le calme et le respect de la loi, préfigurent l’avènement d’une société qui honore la  transparence, la bonne gouvernance, l’État de droit et l’équité. Nous nous en réjouissons et souhaitons ici vous en  féliciter.
1.3 Nous connaissons et partageons votre conviction que la culture et l’éducation demeurent les meilleurs remparts  contre le racisme, le fanatisme et la violence, puisqu’elles sont porteuses de principes d’ouverture et d’acceptation de  l’autre. La collaboration entre la Mauritanie et l’UNESCO atteste de cette convergence de vues.
1.4 En effet, notre collaboration en vue de la sauvegarde de Tichitt, la cité-relais entre l’Afrique du Nord et l’Afrique  noire, et nos efforts conjoints en faveur du Programme d’appui au développement de l’éducation en Mauritanie, le  PADEM, démontrent à quel point vous êtes déterminé à construire aujourd’hui et pour les générations futures une  véritable culture du dialogue et du respect.
(2.1) Mr Ould Cheikh Abdallahi (President of Mauritania) (translation from the Arabic):   Bismillāh ir-rahmān ir-rah īm (In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate). Mr President of the General  Conference, Mr Chairperson of the Executive Board, Mr Director-General of UNESCO, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  the greeting in my country is as-salām “peace” and thus it is with peace that I greet you, as you gather under the global cupola  of peace in the bosom of UNESCO, founded from day one upon a profound awareness of the need to construct the defences  of peace in the minds of men. It has worked hard over the decades to free emotion and passion from their negative baggage  and occupy them with all that is positive and beautiful in human nature. From this place, I congratulate the President of the  General Conference, I congratulate the Chairperson of the Executive Board, I congratulate the new members of the Executive  Board and I congratulate the Director-General for his efforts to reform the Organization and strengthen its international form.  Mr President, like you we believe that the building of peace in the minds of humanity is the only way to build it on earth, so that  people may enjoy security and prosperity and be free to engage in useful and creative activity. We share the concerns of this  session, including the Teacher Training Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa, the proclamation of the international year for the  rapprochement of cultures, the encouragement of linguistic diversity, the fight against discrimination in education and the  celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
(2.2) Mr President, we believed that human development is attested by action and so, by means of humanity and for the  sake of humanity we founded a new era of democratic empowerment, through an inspired experiment under a new  constitution which provides unprecedented guarantees in our country for the peaceful handover of power. Mauritania has  indeed witnessed transparent municipal, parliamentary and presidential elections which received praise and commendation  from the international community. Upon our assumption of the reins of power, we proceeded at once to work to entrench those  new yet time-honoured values: the values of Islam we profess and the values of the age in which we live. We adopted the  principles of sound governance, expanded freedoms, including the freedom of thought, expression and organization and  followed the path of consultation as a means of decision-making. We employed dialogue as a method of engaging with the  national polity and proceeded to address existing and anticipated injustices. We propagated a law criminalising human  exploitation and opened the door for the honourable return of our citizens who left their homes in 1989. We have made redress  for unfortunate past violations of human rights. On another front, Mauritanian women have achieved a participation of 20% in  representative positions and, for the first time, our country has appointed women governors, judges and ambassadors,  including our ambassador to this great country of France. We believe that we are thereby providing a significant part of the  fundamental conditions for the advancement of humanity in all areas, at the forefront of which are education, culture and  science.
(2.3) Mr President, Mauritania pursues a cultural policy based on universal education, encouraging scientific research and  disseminating the culture of excellence and creativity. My country, the land of one million poets, is proud of what its scholars  and authors have given and of the radiance of its centres of civilization which have spread learning and cemented the values  of tolerance and brotherhood throughout the ages. Because of both history and geography, Mauritania has been able to be a  bridge for contact between peoples, cross-fertilization among cultures and the smooth flow of knowledge in the Afro-Arab  space. My country is proud of the fertility of its cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, and looks forward to more of it  being discovered, safeguarded and utilized. In this regard, I extend sincere thanks to UNESCO for assisting our endeavours to  make education universal, eradicate illiteracy and maintain ancient towns and tourist sites, at the forefront of which are those  cities inscribed in the World Heritage List: Chinguetti, Ouadane, Oualata, Tichitt, and the Banc d’Arguin National Park. I also  extend thanks to His Excellency Mr Koïchiro Matsuura, the Director-General, for the appeal he made at the beginning of the  year from the historic city of Tichitt for our ancient cities to be saved. We all hope that this appeal will find responsive ears  among the international community, enabling the creation of a fund to support the renovation and restoration of historical  centres in Mauritania.
(2.4) Mr President, today, as we enter the third millennium, our world faces conflicts which have generated anguish in  people’s hearts, resentment at the other and a drive toward revenge. These conflicts have generated vengeance, resentment  and hatred in minds and brought down a mix of violence, oppression and extremism upon the earth. This makes it the  responsibility of UNESCO and of us all to double the earnest endeavour to dry up the wells of hatred and rancour in the minds  of humanity. The road toward the dissemination of the values of tolerance inevitably involves progress in building a fairer,  more just and less prejudiced world, in which civilizations engage in dialogue with one another and are not at each others’  throats, in which cultures come together instead of avoiding each other and in which the efforts of all are combined in facing  the challenges of greater storms, such as the challenge of vicious wars, the challenge of the environment, the challenge of  poverty and hunger, the challenge of chronic disease and the challenge of odious ignorance.
(2.5) Mr President, changing the situation begins by changing the self: “God does not change a people’s condition until they  change what is in themselves.” Changing the self is the first priority of the educational work which our venerable Organization  carries out. Let us join together to change what is in ourselves, so that our world might change and peace, prosperity and
362  stability become universal. The Mauritanian poet was correct in saying: “Useful knowledge is real property and by that is glory  sought, not in chattels.” Thank you. As-salāmu ‘alaikum wa-rah matu llāhi wa-barakātuh (Peace and the mercy and blessings of  God be upon you).  (Applaudissements)
3.1 Le Président :   Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous remercier pour votre intervention. Soyez assuré que nous ne  manquerons pas de prendre en considération les points que vous avez soulevés et les réflexions que vous avez  développées dans la suite de nos débats.
3.2 Chers collègues, la séance est levée. Bonsoir.   The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h 45  Se levanta la sesión a las 17.45  Заседание закрывается в 17.45  א א٥,٤٥א   会议于 17 时 45 分结束